---
author:
  name: Yaronimus-Maximus
  picture: 110981
body: "I'm currently working on an essays about the christian Hebrew typographer named
  Guillaume Le Be from the 16th century, and i want to elaborate about the profession
  of type design and type foundries. As i understood, the first type designers were
  craftsmen, often jewelers who were commissioned to create the letters by the printers/publishers.
  Then, in some point in history, type foundries were created and supplied type for
  the printers.\r\n\r\nWhat i need is a good online source which i can cite and reference,
  dealing with this transition from sole craftsmanship to the commercial type foundry. "
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Whenever a process which previously requires craftsmanship can be mechanized,
    it generally has been: it's called Industrial Capitalism. Scottish weavers fiercely
    resisted the Industrial Revolution as long as they could, but the cheaper prices
    brought about by mass production did them in. Doubtless, the process of founding
    type followed a similar arc\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-29 00:50:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you don't find an online source, take an offline source, put it on your
    own site, and refer to it.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Yaronimus-Maximus
      picture: 110981
    body: "yes hrant, of course, you are right.\r\nbut i was afraid that i would not
      find a good source about this in israel. not that there aren't books, libraries,
      etc here, it's just that you might recommend on something i can't reach. therefor
      i asked for an online source.\r\n\r\nbut if you kind folks have some book or
      an essay about this, and you are willing to scan some of it, i would be thankful
      :)"
    created: '2013-01-29 16:25:44'
  created: '2013-01-29 01:19:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Printing was from the beginning mass production for sale. It was the first
    industrial production. '
  created: '2013-01-29 01:56:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, the industrial capitalism phase of type making -- i.e. the period in
    which the means of type production are owned by people whose engagement in the
    enterprise is wholly financial and not enacted in labour -- didn't really come
    about until the 19th Century. In the 18th Century, one can see the end of the
    transition from the itinerant craft tradition of the renaissance and early baroque
    periods to that of foundries. One could say that the distinction is between the
    punchcutter travelling to the customer and the type travelling to the customer.
    But unlike, say, the introduction of mechanised weaving, the early foundries tended
    to be established by punchcutters, sometimes in partnership with publishers who
    had been their customers, or with other financial investment. So, for example,
    if you look at the Dutch punchcutters of the 18th Century, such as Fleischmann,
    you see him first working as a punchcutter for publishers and for other type founders,
    and then setting up his own type foundry.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nBill, how are you defining
    'industrial production'? Is 'mass production' in itself a sufficient criterion,
    or is the method of production to be considered also? Or some ratio of the quantity
    of production to the quantity of labour?\r\n\r\nSetting type, even by hand, and
    printing books on a wooden handpress is surely more efficient than having scribes
    produce individual copies, but in terms of production it seems to me on a level
    with producing cloth on a handloom: more efficient than knitting, but not really
    industrial."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Yaronimus-Maximus
      picture: 110981
    body: "hi John Hudson.\r\nhave you any good online/offline source about this?\r\n\r\nbtw
      i have read that garamond had his type foundry (am i right?), \r\nalso Guillaume
      le be (which was his successor).\r\ni am still unsure about the notion of type
      foundry versus the craftsman in the renaissance, because i lack a good source.
      i understood that type was used and sold and resold. Famous printer Christof
      Plantin bought 21 fonts (i.e. metal sets of letters) in 1555 and brought them
      to Antwerp in order to open his print house -\"the golden compass\". that may
      show that type was still rare at that time, and often re-used for long periods.\r\n\r\nthat
      was quite common with hebrew types that were even rarer and used until the letters
      crumbled."
    created: '2013-01-29 16:35:56'
  created: '2013-01-29 04:08:25'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: how do you flag spammers here?
  created: '2013-01-29 16:25:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>how do you flag spammers here?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWith a white
    flag?  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-29 16:38:14'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nI would argue that printing was the first mass <strong>medium</strong>;
    however, as John Hudson pointed out, the capitalists didn\u2019t get involved
    in type founding as early as they did with other enterprises. Most likely, there
    wasn\u2019t enough demand until more of the population became literate: people
    who can\u2019t read aren\u2019t likely to buy too many books\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-29 18:18:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "William, the Arsenale in Venice was an earlier example of industrial production,
    an assembly line for boats.\r\n\r\nKilns were an ancient form of industrial production,
    with bricks pressed in wooden forms being the uniform mass-produced object\u2014although
    hand-turned amphorae were consistent in size and shape. \r\n\r\nPottery perhaps
    preceded salt making in industrial production, as ceramic bowls were required
    to reduce the salt. Solnitsata, the oldest town in Europe, was founded on the
    production of salt 6,000 years ago. I don\u2019t know whether there was a standard
    form for salt cake distribution, as there was later with the sugar loaf. \r\n\r\nAnd
    of course monetary coins were an early form of standardized industrial production."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Yaronimus-Maximus
      picture: 110981
    body: "Nick, was the assembly line for boats a commercial business, or created
      by the government/military.\r\ncorrect me if i'm wrong, but it's one thing for
      a singular or governmental phenomenon - such as these are old as the pyramids
      and earlier. \r\nit's another thing for a recurring phenomenon powered by private
      market."
    created: '2013-01-29 23:08:50'
  created: '2013-01-29 19:07:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<a href=\"http://ritpress.rit.edu/publications/books/scythe-and-rabbit-simon-de-colines-and-culture-book-renaissance-paris.html\"><em>The
    Scythe and the Rabbit</em></a>\r\nThis new book, a collection of essays on Simon
    de Colines by Kay Amert, edited by Robert Bringhurst, is vert good on the development
    of type casting and printing in renaissance Paris, and includes quite a lot about
    Le Be's famous 'Memorandum', a kind of memoir of the Parisian typographic scene
    in the early 16th Century.\r\n\r\nThe massive Enched\xE9/Carter <em>Typefoundries
    in the Netherlands</em> book provides a very good insight into the kinds of relationships
    that existed between punchcutters, printer publishers and foundries from the 16th
    to the 18th Centuries.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-29 19:10:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'John, Nick, I confess I don''t know the history. But printing does seem to
    be significantly different from most crafts in terms of standardized ingredients,
    specialization of individual jobs, and mass distribution of products. Also I''m
    wondering if Venice quickly becoming the center for printing had anything to do
    with the rise of capitalism, as if I remember correctly Venice was a pioneer in
    that as well.  '
  created: '2013-01-29 22:18:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One thing I learned (or maybe re-learned) from Lane's \"The diaspora of Armenian
    Printing, 1512-2012\"* is that Venice was the destination of refugees from the
    sack of Mainz (the cradle of Western printing). Why they ended up going there
    though I have no idea.\r\n\r\n* http://www.oakknoll.com/detail.php?d_booknr=109505\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I just found this:\r\nhttp://www.library.manchester.ac.uk/firstimpressions/Spread-of-Print-through-Europe/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-29 22:32:23'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "John, \r\nthank you very much.\r\ni know Bringhurst from the massive \"the
    elements of typographic style v3.0\". \r\nso this book is surely comprehensive.\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-29 22:41:34'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "if i recall correctly, \r\nfrom my history studies of the time of the pre
    - french revolution (which is about two centuries after the 16th century), especially
    what i read in hobsbaum's book, most of the \"industries\" were more like workshops,
    not the heavy industries we know from the 19th century onwards. it doesn't mean
    that there were not massive undertakings, but usually these escapades were directed
    from the rulers, not by manufacturers of the market.\r\n\r\nhowever i also know
    that Christoff Plantin hired 200 workers in order to print the polyglot bible.
    so he must have been quite busy.\r\n\r\nabout 4000 hebrew books were printed alone
    in the 16th century. this is certainly not the \"industry\" of the modern times
    onwards, so our question is dealing with the definition of industrialism."
  created: '2013-01-29 22:52:17'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "from wiki, \r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Industrial_capitalism#Industrialism\r\n\r\n-Mercantilism-\r\n\r\nThe
    period between the sixteenth and eighteenth centuries is commonly described as
    mercantilism. This period, the Age of Discovery, was associated with geographic
    exploration being exploited by merchant overseas traders, especially from England
    and the Low Countries; the European colonization of the Americas; and the rapid
    growth in overseas trade. Mercantilism was a system of trade for profit, although
    commodities were still largely produced by non-capitalist production methods.\r\n\r\nWhile
    some scholars see mercantilism as the earliest stage of capitalism, others argue
    that capitalism did not emerge until later. "
  created: '2013-01-29 23:05:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>While some scholars see mercantilism as the earliest stage of capitalism,
    others argue that capitalism did not emerge until later.</em>\r\n\r\nIn either
    case, a useful distinction can still be made between mercantile capitalism (or
    proto-capitalism) and industrial capitalism. One is centred on a market of manufactured
    goods; the other is centred on a market of capital goods. The latter is formalised
    in the modern stock market system, in which it becomes the norm for the people
    who own shares in the means of manufacture to be completely uninvolved in the
    process of manufacture, even in a managerial role. When this model is applied
    to banking, it leads to the third phase: finance capitalism, which is centred
    on a market of debt."
  created: '2013-01-29 23:31:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Very interesting numbers in the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Printing_press#Mass_production_and_spread_of_printed_books|Wikipedia
    article on the printing press]]:\r\n\r\n\"By 1500, the printing presses in operation
    throughout Western Europe had already produced more than twenty million copies.
    In the following century, their output rose tenfold to an estimated 150 to 200
    million copies.\r\n\r\n\"European printing presses of around 1600 were capable
    of producing 3,600 impressions per workday. By comparison, movable type printing
    in the Far East, which did not know presses and was solely done by manually rubbing
    the back of the paper to the page, did not exceed an output of forty pages per
    day.\"\r\n\r\nThis confirms my feeling that printing was mass production on a
    scale never seen in history. It was hand powered until the 19th century, but the
    specialization and mass production were similar to what energy-powered manufactures
    were, and must have been a model for it. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Yaronimus-Maximus
      picture: 110981
    body: quite impressive, William.
    created: '2013-01-30 12:59:54'
  created: '2013-01-30 04:13:26'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "The only real difference between Mercantilism and Capitalism is the <em>means</em>
    by which small groups of individuals accumulate massive amounts of wealth; likewise,
    shipbuilding served both commercial and political ends, although\u2014as the history
    of the East India Company reveals\u2014there really is precious little difference
    between the two\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-30 12:54:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>\"did not exceed an output of forty pages per day.\"</blockquote>\r\n\r\n\"...
    at the hands of a conjoined twin, during a famine.\"\r\n\r\nDon't believe everything
    you read.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-30 14:18:11'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<blockquote>i understood that type was used and sold and resold. Famous printer
    Christof Plantin bought 21 fonts (i.e. metal sets of letters) in 1555 and brought
    them to Antwerp in order to open his print house -\"the golden compass\". that
    may show that type was still rare at that time, and often re-used for long periods.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThere
    seems to be some confusion about this 'trading'\u2026 What Plantin bought were
    sets of matrices, eg the base needed for casting type (it is more complicated
    than stated here; the process could result in multiple matrices \u2014 Smeijers's
    Counterpunch is an enlightening book on this matter).\r\n\r\nThe Ensched\xE9 story
    is similar: they acquired matrices from various sources during an extended period."
  created: '2013-01-30 14:50:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Just thinking about it, I''m pretty sure that the mass production of coins
    much earlier, in Europe and Asia, and also of ceramics in China was on the scale
    of printing, in the millions. One of the features of industrial production that
    is pointed to is the production of identical parts, to be assembled later. That
    is a feature of type, so maybe that is an innovation (of the Chinese). The history
    of mass production looks pretty interesting, but I haven''t read anything on it.  '
  created: '2013-01-30 15:58:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, was the assembly line for boats a commercial business, or created
    by the government/military.</em>\r\n\r\nThe Arsenale was run by the state, but
    produced boats for both the navy and merchants.\r\nNo doubt Venice\u2019s ruling
    class pro\uFB01ted from it.\r\nA military-industrial complex that could be compared
    with those of today, such as Boeing.\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-30 17:35:57'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nThe production of standardized coinage began in Lydia in
    the seventh century BCE, by none other than King Croesus\u2014hence the expression,
    \u201CAs rich as Croesus\u201D (him having invented money and all). The actual
    means of production (hammering a planchet between two dies) didn\u2019t change
    for two thousand years, give or take. Screw presses emerged around the Renaissance,
    but the process of minting didn\u2019t become fully mechanized until James Watts\u2019
    steam engine was applied to the process in 1801\u2014about the same time that
    virtually every other means of production amenable to steam power exploded\u2026"
  created: '2013-01-30 23:09:35'
- author:
    name: Elbrecht
    picture: 126241
  body: "Hi - \r\n\r\nElizabeth L. EISENSTEIN: \r\nDie Druckerpresse. Kulturrevolutionen
    im fr\xFChen modernen Europa. \r\nSpringer, 1997.\r\nISBN 3211828486\r\n\r\nED:
    Just found the original US version in two volumes: \r\n\r\nElizabeth L. EISENSTEIN:
    \r\nThe Printing Press as an Agent of Change - \r\nCommunications & Cultural Transformations
    in pre-modern Europe. \r\nCambridge University Press, 1980.\r\nISBN 978-0521299558\r\n\r\nHE"
  created: '2013-02-02 13:41:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Thanks!
  created: '2013-02-04 02:16:07'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: ">the christian Hebrew typographer \r\n\r\nWhy is christian lc and Hebrew
    uc?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Yaronimus-Maximus
      picture: 110981
    body: because my english writing is poor?
    created: '2013-02-06 02:11:16'
  created: '2013-02-05 21:38:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I presume because Hebrew is a proper noun in this context, referring to the
    Hebrew language, while christian is an adjective, referring to the typographer.
  created: '2013-02-05 22:05:04'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "You have a whole lot of dictionaries against you on that one John.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"he\" is always lower-cased:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lFWA1A9XFi8\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2013-02-05 23:05:50'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nSo, \u201Cthe british Empire\u201D is proper form, \u201Cbritish\u201D
    being an adjective in this case? I think not; methinks there\u2019s an agnostic\u2014or,
    perhaps, even an atheist in the house\u2026"
  created: '2013-02-05 23:05:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Capitalisation is a convention, one that hopefully captures useful information
    from language that assists understanding. English capitalisation used to be pretty
    random, but useful in the sense that it indicated words that the writer thought
    Very Important. These days, capitalisation is governed by style guides, some of
    them called grammars because that sounds more impressive, but no less conventional
    for that.\r\n\r\nIn this case, I think the meaning of the description of Le B\xE9
    is clarified by the lack of capitalisation. Consider, does the phrase 'Christian
    Hebrew typographer' refer, as intended, to a typographer of Hebrew text who happened
    to be a Christian, or to a typographer of something called Christian Hebrew. By
    not capitalising christian in this context, it is clear that the word is an adjective
    referring to 'Hebrew typographer', and not part of a proper noun.\r\n\r\nGenerally,
    I like to restrict use of capitalisation to proper nouns, which is why I regularly
    offend people by writing of the Catholic churches and the protestant churches.
    Why? Because Catholic is part of the proper name of the institutions in question
    -- the Roman Catholic Church, the Chaldean Catholic Church, the Maronite Catholic
    Church, etc. --, whereas with >34,000 independent protestant sects operating under
    a great diversity of names almost none of which actually include the word Protestant,
    it seems obvious to me that there is no such thing as Protestant as a proper noun
    except in very rare cases; protestant is an adjective, as is christian in the
    context of the comment about Le B\xE9, and catholic when referring to one of the
    four marks of the Church (the latter a proper noun in this case, to distinguish
    it from the church around the corner).\r\n\r\nSome people capitalise adjectives
    that they think are Important. But that's pretty Random."
  created: '2013-02-06 02:57:42'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: In English, unlike French, words like "Christian", "Fahrenheit", "Hamiltonian",
    or "Newtonian" which contain a proper name, are <em>always</em> capitalized, no
    matter what part of speech they are.
  created: '2013-02-12 05:19:17'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Thank you, John: quite Enlightening\u2026except that, technically speaking,
    \u201CChristian\u201D is an adjective referring to a specific person\u2019s honorific,
    which is to say <em>Iesu Christe</em>. It is unlikely that any self-respecting
    copy editor would let \u201CHenry the eighth\u201D fly\u2026"
  created: '2013-02-12 13:08:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Yaronimus indicated, he is not familiar with the intricacies of English capitalization.
    There's nothing more to it...
  created: '2013-02-12 15:37:12'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>In English, unlike French, words like \"Christian\", \"Fahrenheit\",
    \"Hamiltonian\", or \"Newtonian\" which contain a proper name, are always capitalized,
    no matter what part of speech they are.</blockquote>\r\n \r\nohm really? :-)"
  created: '2013-02-12 15:53:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Craig, tell me if it hertz to be such a smart alec.
  created: '2013-02-12 19:50:24'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I am watt I am.
  created: '2013-02-12 20:21:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John (Q), you're quite right that the convention in most English usage is
    to preserve the capitalisation in words derived from proper names, with the caveat
    illustrated by Craig and Nick S that this only persists so long as the words remain
    commonly associated with the person. The personal association of many words diminishes
    over time, especially if the original name was foreign and unfamiliar to English
    speakers. It is akin to what can happen to trademark names if they become common
    parlance: how Kleenex becomes kleenex.\r\n\r\nT'other Nick pondered whether the
    failure to capitalise christian was some sort of atheistical gesture. I pointed
    out that, whatever the reason, in the context of the particular construction the
    lack of capitalisation avoided the ambiguity so often potential in English when
    a capitalised adjective is joined with a proper noun."
  created: '2013-02-12 20:59:32'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Ohm = &Omega;\r\nHertz = Hz\r\nJames Watt loses out.\r\nbritish Empire?\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-12 21:07:00'
- author:
    name: gargoyle
    picture: 110090
  body: "<blockquote>It is akin to what can happen to trademark names if they become
    common parlance: how Kleenex becomes kleenex.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's an interesting
    subject; learn more about trademark dilution by [[http://www.google.com/search?hl=&q=googling+trademark+dilution|googling
    it]]."
  created: '2013-02-12 23:09:47'
date: '2013-01-28 04:31:57'
title: type foundries in the beginning of print

---
