---
author:
  name: desmetadata
body: "I know i've seen this font before.. maybe a free one?\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: akira1975
    picture: 109727
  body: "Tabasco\r\nhttp://bowfinprintworks.com/BauhausFaces6.html"
  created: '2013-01-31 11:15:02'
- author:
    name: desmetadata
  body: "Thank you :)\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-31 11:20:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/54383\r\nDon't go for the crappy and illegitimate
    free ones.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-31 14:16:12'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Tabasco is a very old font, digitized by various people (as well as many
    other Letraset and metal typefaces). Some digital versions are free, some are
    commercial, some has better quality, some others are crappy... but none of them
    is more legitimate or illegitimate than the others (As long as they are original
    digitalizations from scans, and not duplication of an existing digital version).\r\nAssuming
    that a font is illegitimate just because it's free, it's a wrong assumption."
  created: '2013-01-31 19:40:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Agreed. But are you sure the original design is now public domain? Just because
    many people have jumped on a bandwagon doesn't mean it's a good bandwagon. If
    you're not sure I think it's better to be safe than sorry. It's better to hurt
    one guy looking for an ID than potentially hurt somebody who went to the trouble
    to design a font.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-31 23:16:54'
- author:
    name: Mike F
    picture: 109911
  body: "And so you link to a post which links to Paratype's commercial version? Being
    commercial makes it more legitimate? Their 'version' is Tavrida - \"The typeface
    was designed at SoftUnion in 1994 by Nikita Vsesvetsky.\"\r\n\r\nThe original
    is actually Tabasco - by John Schaedler, late 1960's.\r\n\r\nSo .. the basis of
    your dissent is really ignorance and bias. And you have linked to a version of
    Tabasco that has zero legitimacy. How seedy of you.\r\n\r\nIf anyone has the rights
    to Tabasco, it would be Letraset - and they have mounted no protest to lots of
    digital recreations of such arcane blasts-from-the-past which they have not seen
    prudent to digitize."
  created: '2013-02-01 19:01:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Being commercial makes it more legitimate?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNo,
    but it <em>is</em> more likely to be legitimate, hence a safer recommendation.
    Also, the free ones that I saw <em>were</em> much lower in quality. Lastly, it's
    nice to get people to support type designers financially; something being free/cheap
    does not make it more worthy - saving money for its own sake is very capitalistic.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I suggest you desist from the rampant personal attacks - they're dishonorable
    and counter-productive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-01 19:50:45'
- author:
    name: Jan
    picture: 112311
  body: "<blockquote>Lastly, it's nice to get people to support type designers financially</blockquote>\r\nSo
    now we finally know what this is all about. It\u2019s not ethics.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>And
    I suggest you desist from the rampant personal attacks - they're dishonorable
    and counter-productive.</blockquote>\r\nThis of course only applies to people
    other than Hrant.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/99822\r\n<blockquote>And I have
    to wonder if Jan (and Mike, and whoever else) knew this little detail but were
    keeping quiet. Because it sure is what they usually do!</blockquote>"
  created: '2013-02-01 21:16:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not honorable to pick out one thing that makes me look bad (to some
    people) and pretend that's my only motivation. And is wanting to see effort rewarded
    really unethical? What's unethical is ignoring the dedication and effort that
    goes into making a font for the base personal pleasure of IDing a font, often
    for somebody who might use the information to pirate the font. You conveniently
    ignore everything else I wrote, some of which you might even agree with, but might
    not have the strength to admit (a pattern I've consistently seen before). Clearly
    you have no idea what makes me tick (probably because you never leave the ID section).
    Unless I'm giving you too much benefit of doubt...\r\n\r\nBut you're right about
    the second part - I've actually been feeling mildly bad about that (even though
    I wasn't being nearly as aggressive as Mike). When I formulate a proper reply
    in that thread (soon) I'll correct that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-01 23:39:37'
- author:
    name: DPape
    picture: 109811
  body: "Glad that you're attacking font IDers and not outside font designers.  \r\n\r\nAll
    Font Makers should know the business model they are working under does not protect
    them.  \r\n\r\nGood words to live by: \"And I suggest you desist from the rampant
    personal attacks - they're dishonorable and counter-productive.\""
  created: '2013-02-02 01:45:25'
- author:
    name: DPape
    picture: 109811
  body: "Hrant, it is allllll yours....   ???\r\n\r\nTime to retire and pass the reins
    to your juniors.\r\n\r\nWe're ready! And able!!"
  created: '2013-02-02 02:11:39'
- author:
    name: akira1975
    picture: 109727
  body: "I thought the Paratype\u2019s version and the SoftMaker\u2019s version of
    it are doubtful, so I showed the page at Mike Yanega\u2019s site. I dare not to
    mention the versions.\r\nI don\u2019t recommend low-quality knock-offs. I\u2019d
    not like to show unauthorized fonts.\r\nYou shouldn\u2019t digitize typefaces
    without permission even if the original designers don\u2019t protest against it.\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-02 04:39:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Akira, thank you for your mindfulness. You might be right about Paratype's
    version (and everything else). The important thing is to care about doing the
    right thing*, as opposed to IDing a font merely because you can. You clearly prove
    that some people who ID fonts are highly honorable.\r\n\r\n* Which includes confronting
    problems head-on:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/51355\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-02 05:25:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Everybody is different, and not all people who ID fonts are hedonistic vultures.\r\n\r\nHow
    conveniently you ignore who made this place you're usurping.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-02 15:26:30'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Come one people... there is no need to fight to each other.\r\nWe are all
    passionate about type! And I guess we can all agree that the history of type is
    so coiled and complicated, that's is very difficult to know exactly which font
    is the original one, which ones are original digitalizations (based on scans),
    and which ones are rip-offs (digitally duplicated and renamed).\r\n\r\nTo make
    things even more complicated, pretty much all the Letraset fonts have been digitized
    by URW in the early days of Ikarus (in many cases without the consent of the designers,
    and without paying royalties to the designers), and URW have sub-licensed that
    font data to a lots of other people... So, many of the so called rip-off, are
    actually sub-sub-sub-licensed versions of the URW data... while other are simple
    revivals based on scans. Those fonts are still floating around and will continue
    to be online forever (both for sale and for free), and the legal versions of the
    digitized Letraset fonts are in many cases much more illegitimate than the free
    versions.\r\n\r\nTo make things much more complicated.. in the US is completely
    legal to digitize fonts from old specimens scans.. so there are many digitalizations
    done, not only by amateurs but mostly by foundries (big and small). Some foundries
    ask for permission (which is great) but not all, since it's not a requirement
    to do so. And in many cases the designers are death also, so there is no one to
    ask permission for. As a result, about 90% (or more) of commercial digital fonts
    are revivals, or \"modernizations\" of old designs.\r\n\r\nAlso, the fact that
    there are many \"legal clones\" (think Helvetica/Arial, Palatino/Book Antiqua,
    etc...) make it really hard to understand how all this things works for the people
    that are not deep into this subjects (the average user).\r\n\r\nUsers are typically
    accused of piracy... but what about the foundries?  They started it all :)\r\n\"One
    of the most important methods of mechanical development to affect typefounding
    was the invention of a method where the matrices could be made by the electrotyping
    process. This practice bypassed the cutting of punches, allowing a foundry to
    duplicate a competitors type by simply purchasing a font and then molding each
    character in wax and obtaining by electro-deposit a copy from which to manufacture
    a set of matrices.\r\nPerfected in 1845 by Edwin Starr in Philadelphia, the method
    initiated the pirating of printing types on a large scale. It also contributed
    greatly to the difficult of identifying a type, as the same design appeared under
    a dozen of different names.\r\nThe final mayor contribution to the multiplication
    of new types was the matrix-engraving machine. Invented by Linn Boyd Benton in
    1885, this device eliminated the need for hand-cutting a steel punch.\"\r\nAnatomy
    of a Typeface, Alexander Lawson\r\n\r\nBTW: Harassing users for asking type ids,
    it's like abusing the most defenseless of the herd. Most of the people asking
    for font ids and searching for downloads are not \"hedonistic vultures\", they
    are simply people that don't know enough about how typefaces are made, basically
    because they think that fonts \"just come on the computer\" (as I used to think
    a few years ago). Once that people learn more about type, and learn about the
    designers, they start caring and buying fonts (as I do now). Educating those user
    in a friendly way is much better than harassing them.\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-02 15:32:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're right that it's all very complicated, and large companies are indeed
    often guilty. But that does not excuse anybody else being guilty (it's highly
    irresponsible to encourage others to act unethically by pointing out guilty people*)
    and this is not about specifics: we can discuss -even argue about- what font has
    what sort of legitimacy; everybody makes mistakes, and everybody should be open
    to changing his mind, and even apologizing. That's not the point. The point is
    when you don't care about the people whose work you so enjoy identifying, the
    people who happen to be the reason the place you're enjoying exists, you will
    find yourself confronted by people who do care about those things. Caring is a
    Good Thing. <em>That</em> is not complicated.\r\n\r\n* And you of all people should
    appreciate the difference between legal and ethical.\r\n\r\nBTW: You should have
    noticed that I haven't been \"harassing\" the people who <em>ask</em> for IDs
    (except when they boast of pirating fonts, which is rare) because as you say they
    mostly have no idea (and are -individually- too transitory to matter). They're
    not the ones who make Typophile. The people I confront are those that are doing
    damage by not caring. The people who recommend fonts without caring about their
    legitimacy, who <em>never raise a finger</em> to correct any sort of damaging
    behavior, caring only about satisfying their personal pleasure.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-02 15:55:26'
- author:
    name: Mike F
    picture: 109911
  body: "Hrant - Working a long stretch of 13 hour night shifts has made it difficult
    to defend myself against your accusations - especially regarding disrespect to
    those I'll call font-makers. This has been especially hurtful. If you find the
    time, please see <a href='http://old.myfonts.com/WhatTheFont/forum/viewthread.php?threadid=129006'
    target='_blank'>this running MyFonts WTF thread</a>. If you do a browser Search
    on 'Mike', there will be lots of hits - but, starting at about the 17th hit, who
    I am typographically will become evident. It includes <strong>the utmost respect
    for type designers and makers.</strong> Add to that plenty of posts trying to
    educate errant posters and literally hundreds of moderator edits removing references
    in posts to ripoff clones and bad links.\r\n\r\n<em>What's unethical is ignoring
    the dedication and effort that goes into making a font for the base personal pleasure
    of IDing a font, often for somebody who might use the information to pirate the
    font.</em>\r\n\r\nHere is the heart of the problem between us. You clearly think
    that identifying fonts for a large group of posters is tantamount to disrespecting
    commercial font-makers. Who makes up that group? Well ... among many others, that
    would be the home scrapbooker, the fellow looking to mimic an album cover for
    a friend and - the really hard nut for you - the small-time designer with zero
    budget.\r\n\r\nYou assume that they will not buy an identified commercial font.
    In the case of the first two, odds are high that you are right. These are people
    knowing little about fonts in general and totally ignorant of font ethics. They
    are probably not going to buy a font for their little home project - and, in my
    view, so what? By providing an ID and commercial link, there's a chance they might
    make the expenditure. If, instead, they go out and download the font from the
    Internet without paying, the font-maker has lost nothing. This user was never
    a potential customer.\r\n\r\nYou think that this situation cheapens Typophile
    ... but <em>how</em> exactly? Do you imagine that future posters seeking IDs scan
    through prior posts at all? No, they don't. Thinking this is a place to get fonts
    identified (imagine that), they simply post and await an answer. No idea of what
    Typophrant stands for.\r\n\r\nThat leaves the small-time designer with zero budget.
    My argument is exactly the same except that this poster is at least a little more
    likely to pay for a font.\r\n\r\nIn any case, I see two approaches to how you
    would prefer we handle the posts by this group of posters (the majority of posters,
    I believe):\r\n\r\n1)  Challenge them up front about their intentions (how did
    that go for you?). Yeah, that will make font buyers out of them and improve the
    perception of this forum. I don't think so.\r\n\r\n2) Ignore their requests. I
    suspect that this is what you'd like us to do with those you consider \"suspect\".\r\n\r\nWhich
    would you have us do? You claim to be a pragmatist. I say that I am more pragmatical.
    Your approach pretty much negates any possible font purchase. Mine makes it a
    possibility. We font ID hobbyists are clearly held in much disdain by you - and
    yet we provide much more potential income for font-makers than your extreme approach.
    Friendly and helpful versus confrontational and nonhelpful. Which further aids
    font-makers, eh?\r\n\r\nRegarding two other accusations thrown my way ...\r\n\r\n1)
    Why haven't I posted challenges to those who have shown clear intent to pirate
    or against obvious pirate fonts?\r\n\r\nReally simple: My work schedule is stretches
    of 13-hour night shifts - which allows me to, um, binge-post when <em>not</em>
    working and by the time I see them, those posts have already been challenged.
    Redundancy is pointless.\r\n\r\n2) If my disdained-by-you group of hobbyist font
    IDers had ever actually made a font, we'd have more empathy with font-makers.\r\n\r\nI
    played around plenty with creating fonts. Sought out lots of educational info
    from lots of sources -including Typophile forums. Eventually, I made <a href='http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/freshair/gradl-max/'
    target='_blank'>Gradl Max</a>. After basic, very time-consuming fontmaking, I
    had to learn kerning (not perfect, I know) and worked hard on extrapolating lots
    of glyphs that didn't exist in Gradl's lettering.\r\n\r\nIn conclusion, I practice
    my hobby in a way I believe best respects font-makers. I do so, as well, in a
    way that respects the posters you seem to see as horrible lowlifes."
  created: '2013-02-02 20:11:19'
- author:
    name: defiantone
    picture: 126244
  body: "mike, \r\n\r\nlove your post. i agree wholeheartedly. those who visit infrequently
    or just to have a font id'ed may even discover an interest and learn more, especially
    if not attacked as some sort of felon in the making."
  created: '2013-02-02 22:05:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Mike, I'm sorry, I can't afford to waste time following the antics in Mos
    Eisley. I pick my fights very carefully. This is not a crusade - it's a defensive
    action (even if it's long overdue).\r\n\r\nIt's not just about you (just like
    it's not just about me). In fact I think you're far better than most. But yet
    you fail to see the problem. I say this not only based on how you react to me
    actions, but because of your <em>lack</em> of action in certain telling situations.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>You
    clearly think that identifying fonts for a large group of posters is tantamount
    to disrespecting commercial font-makers.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIncorrect.\r\nBesides
    being illogical, that would be far too dogmatic. You're reading things into my
    posts that make it easier to attack me; you're not actually addressing my contentions.
    When I say -and it's clear to anybody paying attention- that I haven't been confronting
    people merely <em>asking</em> for type IDs and you still come back with the same
    false accusation*, I don't know what to think about your clarity of thought. Although
    I personally don't feel comfortable IDing fonts for strangers, I don't expect
    people to follow suit. I'm not asking anybody to stop doing that. That's what
    I call pragmatic.\r\n\r\n* Which, as you can see, is contagious.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Which
    would you have us do?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat I <em>do</em> expect (and only
    because it's a big way of making this place healthy) is for people to care about
    the making of type, not just satisfying their urge to ID type. When somebody with
    a good nose says \"be cautious\", don't have a raging reaction. Don't use ideas
    like \"All Font Makers should know the business model they are working under does
    not protect them\" to justify riding roughshod over the rights of designers. That
    sort of thing. Simple, old-fashioned mindfulness. Minding the community, the vehicle
    that allows you to derive the pleasure, not just the pleasure itself.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I've stated all this before (in a reply to Ryuk about a week ago) but clearly
    not enough people are paying enough attention.\r\n\r\nYou seem to care about more
    than IDing*. But some people here clearly don't. And <em>you</em> need to confront
    them just as much as I do - in fact perhaps more, so you avoid people thinking
    that <em>all</em> type-ID people are scum.\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/100241\r\n\r\nWhy
    do you think there's near-zero interaction between people who frequent the ID
    section versus people who frequent the other sections? Is this a healthy situation?
    No. Is it correctable? Yes.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I made Gradl Max</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhich
    explains why you're more sensitive than most. But you're not the only one here,
    and you shouldn't align yourself fully with one group, while only ever attacking
    the other group. I've seen many cases where somebody like you should have been
    on my side; but you only ever defend people who -from your own characterization
    of yourself- you should not blindly agree with, or even turn a blind eye to.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-02 22:20:30'
- author:
    name: Mike F
    picture: 109911
  body: "I worked 13 hours last night and don't have time to respond to your whole
    post (and who, including you, should care if I do?)\r\n\r\nStill ...\r\n\r\n<em>When
    somebody with a good nose says \"be cautious\", don't have a raging reaction.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    trouble is, your self-vaunted \"good nose\" has yet to prove itself.\r\n\r\n>>
    \"might be\", \"suspect\", \"probably\"   >> You use lots of words like this.
    Several people have asked you for <em>any</em> evidence to back up your splendid
    sense of smell - and then you are silent.\r\n\r\nIt would seem obvious to me that
    font identification skills would contribute greatly to sniffing out ripoffs of
    commercial fonts - yet you freely admit to not being very good at font identification.\r\n\r\nCombine
    my last two paragraphs, and your \"I smell a rat\" posts look absurd.\r\n\r\nHrant
    - I have read lots of posts of yours in (yes!) other Typophile forums and been
    astounded by your typographical erudition - especially related to readability.
    Why haven't you \"seen\" me there? Because I've nothing to contribute. I'm simply
    learning. My respect for you was high until the present crusade. In this forum,
    however, you have created a bully's whirlwind that truly accomplishes nothing
    except an ill wind.\r\n\r\nIn my view, your stance is based upon a belief that
    identifying fonts for people who may not or probably will not buy a font diminishes
    the integrity of this forum and respect for font-makers. And font ID folk who
    do that identifying as a silly hobby lack respect for font-makers.\r\n\r\nI strongly
    disagree with those premises and will continue to post IDs - as time allows -
    for all those seeking IDs - except those who openly indicate that they will find
    a commercial font without paying."
  created: '2013-02-03 18:41:26'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@hrant: \u201C<em>What about the</em> ID regulars <em>who don't mind recommending
    illegitimate fonts?</em>\u201D\r\n\r\nPlease email me suspect user ID\u2019s.\r\n\r\ntypographer@gmail.com"
  created: '2013-02-03 23:41:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're still not listening to much more than your own voice.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>who,
    including you, should care if I do?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nMaybe the ID crowd you
    so blindly protect? But too many of them only care about IDing for its own sake.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>your
    self-vaunted \"good nose\" has yet to prove itself.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou're
    not giving me enough credit. And you remain silent in that significant thread
    I pointed out to you.\r\n\r\nAnd when I'm wrong,  I lower the flag - no problem.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>font
    identification skills would contribute greatly</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhich is why
    -as I said in that reply to Ryuk- we need each other. I sniff, maybe raise a red
    flag, and others help figure out if the flag is warranted. How many people do
    you know who have a good nose for plagiarism <em>and</em> hang out in the ID section?
    Without the red flags people who make fonts will continue to see the ID section
    as a lost cause. Soon I might join them.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>your stance is based
    upon a belief that identifying fonts for people who may not or probably will not
    buy a font diminishes the integrity of this forum and respect for font-makers.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    repeat, yet again: that's not the main issue; if it were I would confront virtually
    all ID requests. The main issue is a pervasive lack of respect <em>for the things
    being IDed and the people who make them, in a place that wouldn't exist without
    them.</em> To me that's plain disgusting.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>will continue to
    post IDs</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI'm not going to try to stop you -or anybody else-
    form doing that. But I'm also loathe to let anybody get away with promoting plagiarism
    and piracy, knowingly or unknowingly, on Typophile.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>except
    those who openly indicate that ....</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat about the ID regulars
    who don't mind recommending illegitimate fonts? I've never seen you raise a finger,
    which makes your \"I care\" seem toothless.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-03 23:55:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I guess I should, although it's not my style. In all these years and all
    these forums, I have only requested disciplinary action against one person (many
    years ago) and only because he was conducting a full-on defamation campaign against
    me, and had stopped contributing anything of value. There's currently nobody remotely
    like that on Typophile - in fact there never has been.\r\n\r\nSo to decide whether
    to go down this dangerous road, I have to ask:\r\n- How do you plan on handling
    such reporting?\r\n- What do you consider \"illegitimate\" to mean?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-03 23:56:37'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>How do you plan on handling such reporting?</em>\u201D\r\nTBD.
    I would suggest, however, that the piracy &c issue in question be brought to the
    attention of the copyright holder, and the parties involved take it from there.\r\n\r\n\u201C<em>What
    do you consider \u201Cillegitimate\u201D to mean?</em>\u201D\r\nIn this context
    I would consider \u201Cillegitimate\u201D to mean not authorized by law."
  created: '2013-02-04 02:45:00'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: Are we here to help or to be the font police?
  created: '2013-02-05 04:18:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sometimes those go together. Who should we be helping?\r\n\r\nNonetheless
    I do believe that nothing beats self-regulation.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-05 05:15:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>your self-vaunted \"good nose\" has yet to prove itself.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/100223#comment-542223\r\nFrankly
    though that was an easy one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-07 03:37:15'
date: '2013-01-31 11:03:28'
files:
- filename: engisolda.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/engisolda.jpg
node_type: font_id
title: Bold fun font

---
