---
author:
  name: karasu
body: "Hi Typophiles,\r\n\r\nI'd very much like to support independent type foundries.
  However, it seems that they generally have more restrictive licenses than the big
  names. Maybe this is because they're unaware if that is legally enforcable or not?\r\n\r\nI'd
  like to propose the following EULA, inspired by the VIllage / Incubator EULA. Comments
  are given in {COMMENT}:\r\n\r\nThis is an agreement between you, the purchaser,
  and [FOUNDRY]. In accepting the terms of this agreement, you acknowledge understanding
  and promise to comply with its terms. If you do not accept the terms, please do
  not complete the purchase transaction.\r\n\r\nWhat you are purchasing from [FOUNDRY]
  is the license to use digital typeface software \u2013 hereafter \u201Cfonts\u201D
  \u2013 on a certain number of computers within your organization; you are not purchasing
  the copyright to the design of the fonts, but the rights to use the fonts.\r\n\r\nThe
  fonts are provided in [FORMAT]. Additional formats may be available upon demand,
  and may require the purchase of supplemental licensing.\r\n\r\nWhen purchasing licensing
  for fonts, you may use the fonts on the maximum number of computers within your
  organization as specified in the license table. You can purchase additional licenses
  at any time, which grant you the rights to use the fonts on additional computers.\r\n\r\nThe
  fonts may not be used with any webfont replacement technologies without the purchase
  of supplemental licensing. Webfonts are provided in [FORMAT]. Please contact us
  for details.\r\n\r\nThe fonts may only be embedded if they are hard to extract,
  and are non-editable. For other applications the purchase of supplemental licensing
  is required. Please contact us for details.\r\n[ORIGINAL: The fonts may not be embedded
  in other documents, such as Portable Document Format (PDF), Flash files (including
  sIFR), Word or PowerPoint without the purchase of supplemental licensing. Please
  contact us for details. COMMENT: This is absolute craziness. With the move to digital
  embedding in non-editable formats should be permitted.}\r\n\r\nYou may make archival
  copies of the fonts for your own purposes. You may not distribute the fonts to people
  outside of your organization. A copy of the fonts may be sent as part of a file
  release to a prepress bureau, if absolutely necessary.\r\n\r\nYou may only modify,
  convert, adapt, decompile, or otherwise reverse engineer the fonts for compatibility
  reasons. Any derivative words that you create may not be shared with others unless
  they also have a license. {ORIGINAL: \r\nYou may not modify, convert, adapt, decompile,
  or otherwise reverse engineer or create derivative works of the fonts. NOTES: Again,
  this is completely ridiculous. Reverse engineering for compatibility reasons is
  expressly permitted by fair use law. Things such as adding glyphs can be argued
  to also fall under this, as they are necessary for compatibility with unicode ranges
  of various programmes.}\r\n\r\nWe have done everything we can to produce our fonts
  to the highest and most up-to-date technical standards, and we test the fonts extensively
  in the latest versions of technically-compliant applications. If you do experience
  any difficulties with our fonts, we will work with you to resolve any technical
  issues in the fonts. If, after we have worked to resolve any technical issues, you
  are still not satisfied with our software, we will be pleased to refund your money,
  which shall be the limit of our liability in this transaction. {NOTE: In some countries
  this won't be enforceable.}\r\n\r\nWe grant the rights of use of our fonts to you
  in good faith, and request that you adhere to the terms of this agreement to the
  best of your ability, and in good faith.\r\n\r\n[NAMES] is a copyright of [FOUNDRY].\r\n\r\n-------\r\n\r\nBut,
  you know, maybe I should just not bother with this. With open-source this is just
  as much an issue, because you need to be careful your work doesn't suddenly turn
  open source as well. However, you don't need to read through wads and wads of legalese,
  most of which is not enforceable anyway.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nK\r\n\r\nPS. Some nice
  reading before you're deciding on a EULA:\r\nhttp://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-07-03/oracle-can-t-stop-software-license-resales-eu-court-says\r\nand
  the case\r\nhttp://curia.europa.eu/juris/liste.jsf?language=en&num=C-128/11\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/13840">Here's a page</a> which contains
    more fun links to other conversations we've had here in the past on our old friend
    the EULA.
  created: '2013-02-01 03:44:52'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>However, it seems that they generally have more restrictive licenses
    than the big names.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot sure that this is the truth. How many have
    you compared?\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>The fonts may only be embedded if they are hard
    to extract</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat does that even mean? It's pointless to have ambiguous
    statements in a legal document. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>This is absolute craziness.
    With the move to digital embedding in non-editable formats should be permitted</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    you got that wrong. You are citing print licenses here. They don't apply to digital
    publishing, because print licenses are made for 1 to 5 local users, but for digital
    publishing you have thousands of users at once. That's why there are separate
    licenses for that. \r\n\r\n<cite>Again, this is completely ridiculous. Reverse
    engineering for compatibility reasons is expressly permitted by fair use law.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nWhich country are you talking about? Font licensing doesn't just
    happen in the US. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Things such as adding glyphs can be argued
    to also fall under this, as they are necessary for compatibility with unicode
    ranges of various programmes.</cite>\r\n\r\nA very bold statement. And that's
    a great example of why EULAs are so specific in there restrictions. Otherwise
    it's all a matter of opinion. And again: a legal document like an EULA is pointless
    if it's not clear. "
  created: '2013-02-01 07:49:16'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Have you seen <a href="https://monokrom.no/page/about_us/licensing_terms">our
    licensing terms</a>?
  created: '2013-02-01 10:18:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's important to respect how the maker of a font wants it to be used. However,
    society isn't about a large number of wild animals not always eating each other,
    and there are two things commonly seen in EULAs that disrespect other people -hence
    society- and should not be included:\r\n- Scare tactics. Things that are not enforceable
    or that the maker has no intention of enforcing. Obfuscating legalese can be seen
    as part of this issue.\r\n- No-modification clauses. Besides bordering on extortion
    (since it leaves the customer at the mercy of the maker's abilities and desires,
    often concerning defects that are the maker's fault) it ignores the role of the
    precedents that the maker necessary mined to make his own design.\r\n\r\nRalf,
    although I agree with everything you wrote, it would be nice if you could nonetheless
    acknowledge that something is indeed rotten in the state of Denmark.\r\n\r\nThe
    Monokrom EULA rules.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-01 14:48:20'
- author:
    name: cdavidson
  body: As a word of caution, it is never good policy to adopt a EULA written by someone
    who is not a lawyer. The problems that Ralf have pointed out - and there are others,
    too - are significant.
  created: '2013-02-02 08:24:56'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: "\"This is absolute craziness. With the move to digital embedding in non-editable
    formats should be permitted\r\n\r\nNo, you got that wrong. You are citing print
    licenses here. They don't apply to digital publishing, because print licenses
    are made for 1 to 5 local users, but for digital publishing you have thousands
    of users at once. That's why there are separate licenses for that.\"\r\n\r\nWhat
    is the difference between using a book and using a pdf or app on an iPad? You
    look at content and your brain tells your hand to move so you can manipulate what
    you are seeing into changing to the next page. I don't get the difference?"
  created: '2013-02-02 19:28:31'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>What is the difference between using a book and using a pdf or app
    on an iPad?</cite>\r\n\r\nWe are not talking about how it looks. It's about what
    \u201Cfont use\u201D means \u2013 because this is what you pay for.  \r\nIf you
    license InDesign you, and you alone have the right to use that software on 1 or
    2 machines. You are not allowed to distribute it on a DVD, so thousands of other
    people can use it to see the InDesign files you have created. You are also not
    allowed to give to 50 colleagues on your companies\u2019 intranet. The price of
    the software is based on the numbers of users. Everyone who wants to work with
    the software, needs to pay for it. \r\n\r\nFor fonts, \u201Cfont use\u201D is
    also using the fonts as software. Which means rendering text, by extracting single
    glyphs from the font, applying spacing, kerning, OpenType features, hinting and
    the like. THAT\u2019s the use. If you use a font this way and later export an
    image or vector graphic of your design, you can do whatever you like with it.
    It a static image. You don't need to pay for the use of that static image, just
    for the use of the font file while you create your design. \r\nAnd that's why
    you cannot embed the print font in an ebook or put it on a webserver. In this
    case, every single reader becomes a \u201Cuser of that font software\u201D, because
    the font is again rendered live on the device of the user, just as it would be
    rendered in InDesign. \r\nAnd just as you cannot redistribute InDesign as part
    of your work, you cannot simply redistribute fully-working fonts with your websites,
    apps or ebooks. You need a license that accommodates the fact, that the font is
    not used by 1 to 5 users in a design studio, but by possible tens of thousands
    of readers of an app or ebook. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-02 19:57:04'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: "For real? Wow, that just does not make sense, and sound very 1998? If I license
    inDesign, I can make pdfs for print, web, ebook, app, whatever. If Adobe said
    \"you can not publish the pdfs you make online, for that you need E-In-Design\"
    I would say go and die and buy Quark. \r\n\r\nAs a e-book user you use the text
    JUST the same way as on paper. That a designer has to pay more for the 'right
    to use' a font because the text is drawn up from lighting pixels instead of drying
    ink is still way beyond my limit of reason, and as a designer (type foundries
    main buyers) it makes me annoyed and angry and inclined to go for free fonts rather
    than hassle through the legal muddy waters of these EULAs and the lack of reason
    behind it. The reasons you give sound, to my ears (and will all due respect) like
    ice-block sellers talking about a refrigerator."
  created: '2013-02-02 20:14:46'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Have you even read what I said?\r\nOf course you can create anything with
    InDesign and redistribute it however you like. You have paid for USING the software,
    not for publishing the results. But you cannot redistribute the tool (InDesign)
    itself.\r\n\r\nNow just replace \u201CInDesign\u201D with \u201Dfont\u201D. Its
    a tool to create design work and you pay for using the tool, not for publishing
    the results. \r\nText on pages in a printed book: not a \"font use\". It\u2019s
    the result of a font use. Do whatever you like with it. \r\nA PNG with text in
    it on a website or on a Kindle: not a \"font use\". It's the result of a font
    use. Do whatever you like with it. \r\nBUT:\r\nA website with webfonts or an eBook
    with embedded fonts: that's \"font use\". The tool itself(!) is distributed to
    thousands of readers and used on their devices as if they were installed. You
    republish the tool itself, instead of just a static image as a result of design
    work. And that redistribution and use on possibly millions of devices needs a
    special license. It's no new idea. Software is licensed per user since there is
    commercial software. The same is true for fonts. "
  created: '2013-02-02 20:53:42'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: "But if I publish a pdf of a magazine online then I'm not letting the user
    use the font I use for anything else but consume the content I made, just like
    with a printed book? Can I outline the font and be clear? Maybe I should just
    make jpgs and collect it to a pdf? Its less user friendly, worse design, sure,
    but it will protect the intellectual property at least. If you go through the
    hassle of \"breaking\" a typeface out of a pdf or ebook, then you are easier off
    going to pirate bay. \r\n\r\nAgain, sorry, but this seems like the very first
    music DRM-solutions the music businesses introduced. Look how that turned out.
    These solutions strike me as very hostile to the costumer, the designers and the
    consumers. "
  created: '2013-02-02 21:52:18'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Its a tool to create design work and you pay for using the tool, not
    for publishing the results.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes. But RE the Monokrom license, which
    says you can't send the fonts to the printer. But no one does that anymore, they
    send a pdf with fonts embedded (and subsetted). As best I can tell,  the Monokrom
    license is not specific on that. If that's not allowed, no one in book publishing
    will use the fonts."
  created: '2013-02-02 22:59:06'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Our (Monokrom\u2019s) EULA is not perfect, but we intend to make it as reasonable
    and understandable as we can. You are allowed to send a PDF to the printer, but
    you are not allowed to send font files to the printer. I had to do that very thing
    a few days ago, so I don\u2019t buy the \u201Cno one does\u201D argument."
  created: '2013-02-02 23:32:35'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: "I'm just going to add I just had a brief email conversation with Frode above
    here that clarified it a bit for me personally. \r\n\r\nI also get that its a
    hard thing to discuss properly, as no-one seem to agree on what a typeface really
    is. Is it a design (intellectual property), software (which I kind of still don't
    get, but ok) or is it a tool? The answers will differ quite a bit depending on
    which of these three you pick.\r\n\r\nI do think, in this day and age, that if
    you want as many designers as possible to use commercial fonts from the start,
    some steps towards clarity and accessibility should be addressed. Since Monokrom
    already has been called out there (or, did it themselves) they have done a great
    step to linguistically make the eula easy to understand. \r\n\r\nThen again, I
    paid about 25.000 $ a year for a design school that sent us to Dafont.com - so
    maybe I'm just a bit challenged on this =/"
  created: '2013-02-03 01:08:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW Tiffany, are you thinking what I'm thinking? For Typecon?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-03 01:21:09'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "A *typeface* is the design. A *font* is the software, the file.\r\n\r\nIn
    my experience with EULAs, the small \u201Cindependent\u201D foundries have more
    widely varying terms than the big ones, both more permissive and more restrictive.
    I would not label them as all one way or another.\r\n\r\nSondre: The answers to
    all your questions are substantially dependent on the specific license (EULA)
    in question.\r\n\r\nThere is no single generic set of rules about \u201Cwhat is
    permitted\u201D; it is all down to the specific licenses involved. The Monotype
    agglomeration wants to charge you extra for embedding fonts in commercial ebooks
    and PDFs. Adobe does not. A few foundries will charge extra for any embedding,
    or depending on the number of copies of the ebook or PDF distributed....\r\n\r\nSo,
    check your license, and make buying decisions based on your needs and what the
    license permits."
  created: '2013-02-03 02:32:27'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: " <cite>I had to do that very thing a few days ago, so I don\u2019t buy the
    \u201Cno one does\u201D argument.</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, I didn't put it well. At
    best, all it really shows is who I know. If you don't mind, & just out of curiosity
    (& to maybe learn something), would you mind sharing the situation where you had
    to send fonts?\r\n\r\n(BTW, I'd never send the printer InDesign files to print
    from. \"Disturbing the wax\" can happen in unexpected ways, even if you've made
    no changes in a story, or relinked any images.  And *that* means reflow is possible.
    Not just theory for me, we had to pay half the bill for reprinting a book because
    that happened -- a $2,000+ lesson.)\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nAnother thing \"nobody
    does anymore\" is to check bluelines -- partly because it isn't in the conventional
    workflow anymore, & so is quite expensive. You can get fake blues; I guess because
    they're fake, \"nobody does that\" either. Because the publisher didn't get blues,
    we split the reprinting bill.  The error wasn't caught until the books were bound,
    and was such that copy was lost. To make a long story even longer, what we now
    go through at each proof stage to make sure unwanted reflow didn't occur is a
    pain, but we've caught several books where this happened."
  created: '2013-02-03 03:29:16'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite> would you mind sharing the situation where you had to send fonts?</cite>\r\n\r\nPersonalized
    prints, like catalogues with the person's name in it or personalized seasons greetings.
    The print shop wants a CSV or Excel file with the names and the fonts used for
    setting those names .\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Again, sorry, but this seems like the very
    first music DRM-solutions the music businesses introduced.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    has nothing to do with protection. Font licenses are based on the number of users
    since the 1980s. Now with electronic publishing the reader becomes the user, because
    on his device is where the use (the text rendering using the font file) happens.
    The definition of font use hasn't changed. It works like it has worked in the
    last 30 years. \r\n\r\n<cite>But if I publish a pdf of a magazine online then
    I'm not letting the user use the font I use for anything else but consume the
    content I made\_\u2026 </cite>\r\n\r\nSure, that's why the licenses for electronic
    publishing are vastly cheaper (per user) then regular desktop licenses. But it's
    still \u201Cfont use\u201D, i.e. \u201Csoftware use\u201D.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026
    just like with a printed book? </cite>\r\n\r\nAgain: no, it's not like a printed
    book. Think of my example of using InDesign vs. redistributing InDesign to every
    possible viewer of your InDesign files. "
  created: '2013-02-03 06:45:28'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "I'll start by saying I am running a typefoundry, just to give some perspective
    about where I'm coming from.\r\n\r\n\"- No-modification clauses. Besides bordering
    on extortion (since it leaves the customer at the mercy of the maker's abilities
    and desires, often concerning defects that are the maker's fault) it ignores the
    role of the precedents that the maker necessary mined to make his own design.\"\r\n\r\nI
    think it's the third or fourth time I read something like this from you hrant.
    I respect your opinion, but I have the right to disagree. Presenting your view
    as an absolute truth doesn't make it a truth. \r\nWhen you spend 2 years on your
    curves and your design, getting the weight, the spacing and everything right,
    you don't want somebody opening your font and creating a customized version out
    of your work, and claiming they are font designers now. If it is so easy to \"mine
    precendents\", then DO IT. The difference between being inspired by Times New
    Roman, and opening Times New Roman in Fontlab to create a new font is HUGE.\r\nAlso,
    you don't want people messing with your fonts, adding glyphs and such, and generating
    new files with broken kerning and whatever. Then your font gets printed with missing
    kerning and people think you've made a lousy job, and the guy who modified it
    won't even realize it was his fault, he might even accuse you to sell him shit.\r\nOf
    course, sometimes these non-modification clause are limiting creativity. Sometimes
    the designer just wants to modify the font to create a nice poster. That is the
    problem of contracts and EULAs, it is very hard to protect your ass and leave
    space for every possible usage.\r\nBut write to the foundry and explain your case
    and see if they will make an exception! I would. \r\n\r\nRalf H is explaining
    how \"it is\", and sonde is questioning the \"how it is\"\r\nUntil you aknowledge
    that, you're just going to speak past each other.\r\n\r\nThe \"it is\" situation
    is not ideal, therefore the points made by sonde are not lacking sense.\r\nYes
    an ebook is using a font vs a book where only the designer needed to buy a license.\r\nBut
    obviously you can also understand why a publisher doesn't understand why he needs
    to worry about buying font licenses when before it was the designer's problem,
    and why it costs him more, when in the end, he doesn't necessarely sell more books.\r\n\r\nTo
    balance this, you could say that it doesn't make sense that somebody has to pay
    the same amount to design a business card for a barber and for the design of a
    book that will be printed 200'000 times or for the logotype of a large corporation,
    that can still be designed by a sole designer and converted into outlines in illustrator.\r\nFont
    licenses are based on the amount of users, but it is mainly a way for foundries
    to reflect the importance of a typefaces's usage. If foundries could sell their
    foundries \"per print\", they would. A bit like, say, photographers, who normally
    get royalties each time their pictures get printed.\r\nClearly, it is almost impossible
    for foundries to track the use of their typeface, and to license them in such
    way. Imagine the EULA then, that would be some mess. \r\n\r\nWhat we are experiencing
    is a real change in the way typefaces are  considered and sold/licensed.\r\nAnd
    the outcome is not clear yet. \r\nBut what changes is that with digital it is
    easier to track each \"print\" of the typeface, through app downloads, product
    sales, etc... and foundries are trying to profit from this.\r\n\r\nBut this is
    normal! In the 90s, some foundries made a lot of money licensing their fonts for
    desktop and embedding, they were much fewer than now, and fonts were more expensive.
    Now you have a larger market, but definitly the amount of foundries and fonts
    has expanded more. The competition is fierce for a foundry to get visibility.
    The quality of fonts has increased, and the prices have decreased a lot. You have
    people with great work that don't get no money, not because their work is not
    worth it, but because of marketing reasons. On the other side you have people
    with BS fonts that know how to put these fonts in the designers faces and how
    to present their BS in an appealing way. So it is normal that type designers are
    trying to get some value back somewhere, and the digital shift is where this value
    is going to be, especially for quality work. On top of that you have \"free\"
    fonts that are adding to this mess, with, most of the time, very questionable
    quality. \r\n\r\nFor the people complaining about EULAs: you need to understand
    this situation! Making sure the EULA is covering their ass properly is difficult.
    Nobody wants to miss the train. An error could cost a lot to a foundry. Not every
    foundry has the money to pay a lawyer that will also write the EULA in simple
    language. \r\nYou don't understand an EULA or you're not happy about it? Write
    to the foundry! It will take you 10 minutes and help more than complain on \"the
    internet\" about foundries and how annoying they are. There are people behind
    these websites and PDF files. Improve communication, give feedback and start the
    conversation! This is what most foundries want. You will also need to get their
    perspective.\r\nWhen somebody spend 2 years on a typeface, he might be able to
    explain you why he doesn't want to let his work be used in a certain way, and
    why he sees that as detrimental."
  created: '2013-02-03 12:59:35'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>would you mind sharing the situation where you had to send fonts?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    had to prepare a test print of a magazine. We were testing the printers image
    post production abilities, and due to a short time frame it was easier to just
    send them the entire document rather than send them the images for adjustment,
    return them to us for insertion and before we generated a pdf to send back."
  created: '2013-02-03 13:03:45'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "There are 20 posts in this thread, and I don't see anyone changing their
    opinion. With that in mind, Thomas summed it perfectly:\r\n\r\n<cite>So, check
    your license, and make buying decisions based on your needs and what the license
    permits.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat works for the buyer. A little harder on the font publisher.
    In my world, there are several book publishers that won't allow the use of any
    font product from certain foundries. The reasons have to do with pricing and EULAs,
    but that information never gets to the foundry. So for those who do publish fonts,
    know your markets.\r\n\r\nIn that vein, I'm not going to post to Typophile anymore.
    In my opinion, it is no longer a place friendly to users of type. There are some
    wonderful people here I intend to remain in touch with, but there are too many
    who treat any post from a user as grist for their agenda. I have better ways to
    spend my time. "
  created: '2013-02-03 16:16:21'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>but there are too many who treat any post from a user as grist for
    their agenda</cite>\r\n\r\nReally? Where?"
  created: '2013-02-03 16:31:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, your opinion on modification is actually the majority one, so there's
    little pressure on you to agree with me! Plus anything I say is only ever just
    my opinion. But that's just like anything anybody else ever says... To me a \"fact\"
    is simply an opinion that's beyond a certain threshold of reliability. Anyway,
    I digress...\r\n\r\n<blockquote>you don't want somebody ....</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTo
    me \"want\" is a four letter word. Wanting is over-rated. I <em>want</em> people
    to erect a temple in honor of Patria's \"g\", and sacrifice juicy sheep there,
    every Friday. But that's vain and unrealistic. So I don't actually try to make
    that happen; I don't even pretend it ever could. Certain EULA clauses are a result
    of vanity or -much more often- scare tactics. Some people put a no-mod clause
    simply because they can get away with it - it's the trend, so nobody can point
    the finger only at them.\r\n\r\nIt's not a pleasant feeling worrying that some
    poser is going to mess with your work. But it comes with the territory, not least
    because -to some extent- you're \"messing with\" your sources of inspiration.
    And most of all, putting a no-mod clause mostly only hurts the people who are
    on your side, who respect you. The rest will do it anyway.\r\n\r\nNow, I certainly
    agree that outline theft is not the same as bona fide inspiration, and it's not
    OK. In fact <em>distributing</em> even a minutely modified font is not OK (unless
    of course it's open-source) whether the EULA permits modification or not.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Then
    your font gets printed with missing kerning and people think you've made a lousy
    job</blockquote>\r\n\r\nLike Charles, who apparently completely dumps all the
    kerning in any font not made by Carter. In a previous age Ferrari required a buyer
    to prove their driving skills before being sold one of their gems. Sadly Capitalism
    has made that sort of thing immoral.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I don't see anyone changing
    their opinion.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nA lot of that stuff is subvisible. People might
    change their mind about something and not admit it (especially not in public and/or
    immediately). More often people will <em>moderate</em> their position, often because
    they're exposed to an idea they simply hadn't considered before. Lastly, as a
    rule people will at a minimum learn how others feel, and refine their handling
    of situations.\r\n\r\nAs for what Thomas wrote, it is indeed a great Part 1. Part
    2 is: If you believe a clause in a EULA is unjust, ignore it. But be prepared
    to face any consequences for your beliefs.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>it is no longer
    a place friendly to users of type.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nActually it's friendlier
    to users of type than it's ever been - in fact much more often than ever before
    people who come to Typophile for help don't end up having to actually support
    type design. So maybe you mean usurpers of type... Anyway, never forget that without
    makers of type (sorry, I'm not counting any delusions that InDesign is a font
    editor...) there are no users of type, and there is no Typophile.\r\n\r\nThe truth
    is, you don't like most type designers, so you shouldn't expect to have a jolly
    ol' time here. Nobody should ask you to leave (or even keep an opinion to yourself)
    especially since you often contribute things of value, but whining and making
    a dramatic exit is neither endearing nor productive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-03 22:07:46'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Certain EULA clauses are a result of vanity or -much more often- scare
    tactics.</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease give examples. I really don't see any of that. \r\n\r\n<cite>Some
    people put a no-mod clause simply because they can get away with it</cite>\r\n\r\nPhrasing
    it \xBBto get away with it\xAB makes it sound like a crime. It's one of many possible
    restrictions and the license agreement is the place to put these restriction.
    In a clear and legally effective way. There is nothing phony about it. \r\n\r\nAnd
    I have said this in an older thread: That modification clause might be interesting
    to you, but it is not interesting to most font users. So I don't know why you
    emphasize it over and over again. Software is made to be used, not recompiled
    and modified. Only a tiny fraction of users ever needs to modify font files themselves,
    and another tiny fraction of those users is able to do this without breaking something
    in the font. \r\nIf a user needs a modification, they can just ask. There is a
    good chance, especially with smaller foundries, they might receive a new file
    within 24 hours. \r\nThe alternative is: they mess around with the font in FontLab.
    That file then gets spread around on hundreds of computers in a company. User's
    complain because something doesn't work. They call the foundry, which then spends
    hours trying to replicate that error \u2013\_without success, only to find out
    later, maybe, that someone messed with the files \u2026\r\nNo one needs this.
    Not the foundry and not the user. If you really need to modify the fonts, just
    ask. If it's not allowed, then you might use other fonts. But being a type user
    myself I don't need to force all foundries to remove their no-modifcation clauses,
    just because I would be able to do minor modifications myself. It's not standard
    type use and that's why a standard license agreement doesn't have to reflect that.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-04 12:09:52'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Another thing \"nobody does anymore\" is to check bluelines -- partly
    because it isn't in the conventional workflow anymore, & so is quite expensive</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    necessarily; if you have a CTP/RIP-once-print-many system in place, you will get
    reliable \u201Cbluelines\u201D or \u201CChromalins\u201D from inkjet or laser
    printers calibrated for the system, at nomimal cost\u2026"
  created: '2013-02-04 12:44:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Please give examples.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI can't give examples
    - it's just my interpretation.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Phrasing it \xBBto get away
    with it\xAB makes it sound like a crime.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI wouldn't call it
    a \"crime\", but it <em>is</em> opportunism = taking advantage of people's situation.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>In
    a clear and legally effective way. There is nothing phony about it.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn
    the US at least, I can't accuse the legal system of being clear and sincere...\r\n\r\n<blockquote>[the
    no-modification clause] is not interesting to most font users.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    whole EULA is not interesting to most users! Most users don't even know what a
    EULA is... But we make them anyway. I guess the reason I emphasize the no-mod
    clause is the good news: it's the only really sore spot for me. But users \"simply
    asking\" to be allowed to modify a font is a non-starter: why would a foundry
    put a no-mod clause if it didn't generally mind? And your scenario about a modified
    version causing problems doesn't make sense: if that happens, the foundry can
    easily tell it's been modified, and either sue the client or charge a lot of money
    to fix the problem. The foundry wins!\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I don't need to force
    all foundries to remove their no-modifcation clauses</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou're
    right. You just need to ignore the clause.\r\n\r\nThe only reason I'm \"lobbying\"
    this is because I think it's unethical. Because I'm not a lawyer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-04 14:33:05'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>if that happens, the foundry can easily tell it's been modified \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    because the user will usually just complain about a problem and not start the
    phone call with \xBBwe modified your font and now have problems with it\xAB. The
    actual user who has the problem might not even know that file was changed. I am
    speaking from experience here. The user's don't care where that file comes from
    or what version number is has. They just have a problem and want it fixed.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>why
    would a foundry put a no-mod clause if it didn't generally mind?</cite>\r\n\r\nThey
    do mind. But it's most helpful for both sides, if both sides know, what's going
    on. If the user just wants to add a new currency sign or correct a kerning pair,
    the foundry might just do that and send the new fonts for free. It might even
    be helpful feedback for the foundry. But if they don't know and the user messes
    around with the fonts, this might cause the user endless hours of testing and
    bug-fixing.\r\nIf the user happens to be a type-designer who can do stuff like
    that without breaking the font, then the foundry might just give him the permission
    to do it. \r\nIn both cases, starting a dialogue with the foundry takes just minutes
    and helps both sides. \r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>You're right. You just need to ignore
    the clause. The only reason I'm \"lobbying\" this is because I think it's unethical.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nSigning a contract with the intention not to honor it would be
    very unethical. So you ask the foundry before you purchase the license and then
    base your purchase decision on their answer. It's simple. \r\nI don't see why
    we need to make such a fuzz about it and change 100% of the contracts, so 0.1%
    \ of the users are freed from the requirement to ask before they make a change
    to a font. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-04 15:04:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's certainly true that we often pay for user ignorance. But a EULA doesn't
    really prevent that much.\r\n\r\nHere's how your scenario should work:\r\n- Client
    modifies a font, messes it up, and gets stuck.\r\n- They call you.\r\n- You ask
    for a copy of the problem font, and can prove it's been modified. That's pretty
    much the only up-front cost you need to incur - sort of like a car mechanic giving
    you a free estimate to fix the problem.\r\n- You tell them they broke the EULA,
    but you'll be nice and not sue them, and fix the problem for $X.\r\n\r\nNow, in
    the case of a company like MS that doesn't directly make money from fonts (and
    has much dumber users) the PR damage isn't worth it, so a no-mod clause makes
    sense there (which however does not mean it should always be respected - life
    happens). But for a font business, the money offsets that handily.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>starting
    a dialogue with the foundry takes just minutes</blockquote>\r\n\r\n... and can
    cause the foundry to say \"no\", and keep a close eye on you.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>It's
    simple.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNo, life is not simple.\r\n\r\nEverybody pays for
    being unreasonable. When a foundry has an unreasonable clause in their EULA, they
    pay for it, one way or another. Fighting unethical behavior is exactly what I'm
    talking about. I don't want to live like a lawyer, sorry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-04 17:15:33'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>When a foundry has an unreasonable clause in their EULA</cite>\r\n\r\nProbably.
    \r\nBut since font modification is (again) no regular font use and only interesting
    to a small percentage of users, I don't see the \xBBunreasonable part\xAB. Quite
    the opposite: It's very reasonable to exclude unusual use. \r\nThat's the whole
    point of standard EULAs: They cover what is allowed and not allowed in regular
    scenarios. And the regular fonts with regular EULAs are only this cheap, because
    they don't need to accommodate every possible use, but only the regular use. That's
    why we have invented them in the first place, instead of negotiating every license
    separately. \r\nJust like with renting a car. There is a standard contract based
    on standard use and if you have special requirements, you need to negotiate this
    separately. Simple.\r\n\r\nSo, I understand that you as a single user might have
    the personal requirement to be able to edit the fonts you license. But that is
    then just a personal requirement. \xBBUnethical\xAB and \xBBunreasonable\xAB are
    terms that need some sort of community who agrees, that a certain regulation is
    unethical or unreasonable. A restriction is not unethical or unreasonable just
    because it's a restriction. There might be good reasons for it. \r\nRestricting
    uncommon use in standard software agreements is very reasonable to me. I don't
    expect to be allowed to modify a rental car, I just want to drive it. I don't
    expect to modify InDesign, I want to use it. I don't expect to modify fonts, I
    want to use them. That's AFAIK very human.\r\nAnd if I should ever run into a
    situation where I need to make modifications, I would just ask, and not brand
    all car rentals or software makers unethical, because they didn't allow me those
    modifications in the first place \u2026\r\n\r\n(That's my final statement. I am
    not interested to continue this discussion for 10 pages. I would delete my subscription
    for this thread now, if that shitty Drupal board would have that option.)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-04 17:55:11'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: "<em>There are 20 posts in this thread, and I don't see anyone changing their
    opinion.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, if anyone goes into a discussion with the objective
    to change the others mind then we'll never get anywhere. Me, amongst others I'm
    sure have certainly got a more nuanced view on this thanks to both critical designers
    and spokespersons from foundries clearing up some whys. Isn't that the ultimate
    goal of being on a forum in the first place? The pooling of ideas, experiences
    and opinion of a diverse group of people, so as many as possible can share their
    views and everyone comes out on the other side with a more nuanced view, even
    if they change their opinion or not. \r\n\r\nI know I've gotten some invaluable
    information and views here, so \u2013 don't attack the form.\r\n\r\nMy personal
    opinion is still a bit frustrated that fonts are looked upon so strongly as intellectual,
    non-transferable property, and not tools. But, I get it. And it's frustrating
    for everybody. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: karasu
    body: "/ My personal opinion is still a bit frustrated that fonts are looked upon
      so strongly as intellectual, non-transferable property, and not tools. But,
      I get it. And it's frustrating for everybody. /\r\n\r\n@ sondre m \r\n\r\nThis
      is my frustration exactly. They are more like tools than painting.\r\n\r\nIf
      you live in the EU you can live happily in the knowledge that if you bought
      a desktop version of a font, you're probably entitled to resell it. (See the
      Oracle v. UsedSoft case.)\r\n\r\nAlso, indeed the forum is a good place to at
      least understand other people and their motivations, even if we don't agree
      with them in the end."
    children:
    - author:
        name: sondre m
        picture: 114087
      body: "<em>This is my frustration exactly. They are more like tools than painting.</em>\r\n\r\nI
        guess this is where graphic designers and type designers never will see 100%
        eye to eye, what is a design and what is a design-tool? Slippery slope. "
      created: '2013-02-04 21:46:39'
    created: '2013-02-04 21:22:01'
  created: '2013-02-04 21:16:35'
- author:
    name: karasu
  body: "Here's my long reply for all the points raised in this thread: http://pastebin.com/98LZp2b0\r\n\r\nThe
    short version:\r\n\r\nThe EULA page on Typophile is interesting. We should add
    a list of foundries with permissive EULAs to this list (I just did). Monokrom.no
    is a good first nominee. Feel free to add any more foundries you know that fit
    the requirements.\r\n\r\nMany licenses disallow resale, although this is allowed
    by EU law. I would consider this an unethical EULA at it covers up user rights.\r\n\r\nWhether
    or not a EULA allows modifications is a good 'litmus paper' for checking the general
    reasonability of the EULA as well as the designer. Most designers will feel protective
    of their 'children', but modifications are just a fact of life.\r\n\r\n@ Ralf
    H. \"That's my final statement. I am not interested to continue this discussion
    for 10 pages.\" Way to go. But I think we can indeed see the discussion as closed,
    as you're not going to change your mind, and neither is xy. I've made a list of
    friendly EULAs at http://typophile.com/node/13840. Unfortunately a list of unfriendly
    EULAs would be too unwieldy.\r\n\r\nPlease see the linked PasteBin on top for
    the full replies to individual posters, as I did not feel that a post of 10 pages
    would be seen as very agreeable."
  created: '2013-02-04 21:17:01'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: "<em>Many licenses disallow resale, although this is allowed by EU law. I
    would consider this an unethical EULA at it covers up user rights.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    if a typeface is intellectual property then resale of the digital file isn't covered
    by EU law, like a physical item? You can't resell an mp3? I know the ownership
    of digital files is still a grey area ALL OVER, far beyond typography, so maybe
    the wrong tree to bark at?"
  created: '2013-02-04 21:44:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Replies to Typophile posts should be on Typophile - don't feel bad about
    copying that PasteBin stuff here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-04 21:50:44'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Here's how your scenario should work:\r\n- Client modifies a
    font, messes it up, and gets stuck.\r\n- They call you.\r\n- You ask for a copy
    of the problem font, and can prove it's been modified. </blockquote>\r\n \r\nBut
    technically, they can't send you a copy of the problem font without violating
    the EULA! ;-)"
  created: '2013-02-04 22:24:50'
- author:
    name: karasu
  body: "@ hrant: I thought about attaching it as a file to my post, but unfortunately
    the forum uses some kind of Flash app, which I do not have installed for security
    reasons. Feel free to attach it to a post of yours.\r\n\r\n@ sondre m: Please
    read this: http://www.businessweek.com/news/2012-07-03/oracle-can-t-stop-software-license-resales-eu-court-says"
  created: '2013-02-04 22:43:57'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: "<em>@ sondre m: Please read this</em>\r\n\r\nInteresting. I won't go too
    far with this, because this thread shouldn't stray too far into the \"what is
    ethical?\"\r\n\r\nBut, I do want to defend the foundries on this. A typeface (hopefully)
    doesn't date, the same way a version of Adobe software does. So, transferable
    licenses would signify quite the loss for type foundries, and a big vote of trust
    that everyone who sold a license would delete their copy. It would also mean that
    sooner or later, type foundries will invent a font-DRM. And, all things considered,
    a whole lot of technical headache.\r\n\r\nBut again, maybe a foundry or type designer
    can come and set the record straight here. The article refers to production software.
    But if the design and intellectual property is trademarked and owned by the designer
    then a license to use it is different, right? (not claiming anything here, just
    asking to understand, sorry for prodding)"
  created: '2013-02-04 23:24:51'
- author:
    name: karasu
  body: "@ sondre m\r\n\r\nIn principle the type of software shouldn't matter. What
    matters is that the software is sold for an indeterminate amount of time. The
    legal argument is that the economic value has been caught in the transaction.
    This legal ruling will mean that either: a) prices are raised, b) DRM is implemented
    (this can probably can and will be legally circumvented), c) you get temporary
    licenses (these are non-resellable), d) we move to cloud licenses (this has already
    happened for a lot of software), e) we continue as is."
  created: '2013-02-04 23:34:36'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: If foundries get to charge 10$ or even only 5$ for every time a designer uses
    their fonts to produce a book that is printed and bound for thousands of dollars,
    instead of the scandalous 30 or 50$ that it costs now for a lifetime license,
    oh boy I'm so in!
  children:
  - author:
      name: sondre m
      picture: 114087
    body: "<em>If foundries get to charge 10$ or even only 5$ for every time a designer
      uses their fonts to produce a book that is printed and bound for thousands of
      dollars, instead of the scandalous 30 or 50$ that it costs now for a lifetime
      license, oh boy I'm so in!</em>\r\n\r\nWhat happens when I use it for my design
      agency stationary for example? 5$ per invoice I print out? Or for the \"design
      project\"? Seems like even more of a minefield \u2013 legally, ethically and
      as a service product. "
    created: '2013-02-05 02:36:37'
  created: '2013-02-04 23:59:16'
- author:
    name: karasu
  body: "@ hrant\r\n\r\n/ BTW Tiffany, are you thinking what I'm thinking? For Typecon?
    :-) /\r\n\r\nEnlighten us :)"
  created: '2013-02-05 00:19:15'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Many licenses disallow resale, although this is allowed by EU law.
    I would consider this an unethical EULA at it covers up user rights.</cite>\r\n\r\nKeep
    in mind, that this was ruled for one specific case (UsedSoft vs. Oracle) in 2012.
    You can't expect that all software makers are monitoring each and every law suit
    in every country and adapt their EULAs all the time based on local laws. Then
    the EULAs would be 10 times and longer and do we really want that?\r\nWe will
    have to see how this Oracle case ruling will affect software sales and use in
    general and how similar cases are handled in future lawsuits. The ruling itself
    is very understandable from the user\u2019s point of view. From the vendor\u2019s
    point of view it makes things pretty complicated, because anyone can claim support
    for software without having a license on file with the vendor \u2026\r\n\r\n<cite>Way
    to go. But I think we can indeed see the discussion as closed, as you're not going
    to change your mind, </cite>\r\n\r\nI was referring to the discussion of no-modification
    clauses with Hrant, not discussing EULAs in general. \r\n\r\n<cite>I've made a
    list of friendly EULAs at \u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat exactly is more reasonable
    in the Monokrom EULA than any other EULA? The only difference I see is the general
    layout of using the casual \xBByou may \u2026\xAB and \xBByou may not \u2026\xAB
    statements. \r\nIt even has restrictions other EULAs don\u2019t: \xBBNo, you may
    not: Use the font software in the creation of alphabet products.\xAB\r\n\r\nAnd
    it is short, which is nice, but since it is short, it doesn't answer typical questions:
    What about PDF or SWF embedding? What about font management servers? It's not
    mentioned.\r\n\r\nSo before you devide EULAs in sane/ethical and insane/unethical
    please check the facts. An EULA doesn't favor the user just because it is short
    and avoids typical lawyer terms. \r\nIn fact, it might even be the other way around:
    as a user you can only claim your rights, if you find them specifically mentioned
    in the EULA and if they are written in a way that is legally enforceable. "
  created: '2013-02-05 07:11:37'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: "<em>So before you devide EULAs in sane/ethical and insane/unethical please
    check the facts. An EULA doesn't favor the user just because it is short and avoids
    typical lawyer terms.</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe not, but it's much more <strong>user friendly</strong>
    \u2013 which is a factor that seems many foundries don't really care about. Selling
    font is a service, and communicating the EULA is part of that service (a touch
    point if you are into service design). The Monokrom EULA touches upon the <strong>main
    issues encountered by a designer</strong> (99% of their buyers), and for most
    people will be everything they ever need to know. If you have a special need,
    their e-mail is easily accessible and you can ask in special cases. \r\n\r\nWhat
    is or isn't included I'm not going to comment about, I'm relatively new to this
    game (at least on this level) and still finding my way to working within the actual
    limits of EULAs. What I feel as a designer is that Monokrom has gone a long way
    making the license more accessible to their customers, and having a good direct
    dialogue with designers such as myself who has questions regarding it. I'm not
    saying its perfect, but at least shows a good attitude to the service part of
    running a business. "
  created: '2013-02-05 15:34:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There are at least two great things about the Monokrom EULA:\r\n- It allows
    modification.\r\n- It treats the user with respect, not as somebody who needs
    to be tricked.\r\n\r\nThe large of number of \"just ask us\" endings might seem
    like a weakness, but it could also be seen as a sign that Monokrom is open to
    dialog, to treating people case-by-case. Now, this is not very scalable, but if/when
    Monokrom grows it can acquire a more elaborate EULA. Although that's sort of like
    a country discovering it has a lot of oil: be careful it doesn't end up ruining
    you!\r\n\r\nYou know what else is great about Monokrom? The prices are round numbers.
    None of that tacky \"99\" business (which I've avoided myself from day one). That
    also conveys respect.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-05 16:59:04'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: Huhu, random with the reference to oil nation, eh? (Ref. Monokrom beeing Norwegian)
    :P
  created: '2013-02-06 01:16:00'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "It would be interesting to know which lawyer was consulted to create the
    monokrom license.\r\n\r\nFoundries are not using complicated EULAs for the pleasure
    of being annoying and user-unfriendly.\r\nBut because everybody says you should
    go see a lawyer for your license, and they do, and the lawyer prepares a document,
    which the foundry can't just take apart and rewrite for the sake of being nice,
    without taking risks.\r\nMaybe monokrom got a great lawyer who understands that
    people have a hard time reading such legalese.\r\nOr they decided to take this
    risk of having a less safe eula for them, to make something user-friendly.\r\nSounds
    very nice, but if they have a big lawsuit one day, and they loose because the
    eula was not solid enough, no doubt that the next eula will not be as easy-going.
    \r\nYou can appreciate that they take such risk, but you can't blame everybody
    else who doesn't want to expose their fragile business. \r\n\r\nYou make an eula
    not for the 99.9% of normal and nice customers who just want to use the font,
    you prepare it in such a way to avoid leaving loopholes for the 0.1% of customers
    who might want to f### you if they can.\r\n\r\nAs for the \"monokrom is so nice
    because they say \"just aks us\"\", that is exactly what I have said about every
    eula. Have a question, write an email to the foundry. Monokrom is not more open
    to dialog than any other foundry. Write to anybody about their eula, they will
    answer too. This is getting a bit ridiculous."
  created: '2013-02-06 15:56:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Monokrom has a business guy on board. But as nice as that guy might be, the
    magnanimity is coming from Frode and Sindre.\r\n\r\nRisks? Yes!\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Foundries
    are not using complicated EULAs for the pleasure of being annoying and user-unfriendly.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou
    can't make such a blanket statement - there are all kinds of foundries out there.
    But I wouldn't use those two terms; it's more like \"obfuscating\" and \"intimidating\".\r\n\r\nOne
    thing I would ask here is: why is a no-mod clause the norm now whereas it was
    the exception a few years ago?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Monokrom is not more open to
    dialog than any other foundry.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt think they're more open
    than average, but anyway my point was that Monokrom seems more willing to treat
    users as people rather than wallets. Basically they (and foundries like Shinn
    Type and Adobe) are a <em>good influence,</em> plain and simple.\r\n\r\nRidiculous?
    That's what lawyers are for.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-06 16:44:05'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>but if they have a big lawsuit one day, and they loose because the
    eula was not solid enough, no doubt that the next eula will not be as easy-going.</cite>\r\n\r\nBy
    the way: that risk is also on the user\u2019s side! \r\nThere have been plenty
    of EULA related law-suits in the last couple of years. Some foundries claimed
    a damage in the millions, because of uses that broke the EULA. Understandably,
    especially larger clients now are very cautious about that. They want each and
    every possible use specifically mentioned in there, so they have it in ink that
    their font uses are covered. A short and friendly EULA like the one of Monokrom
    won't help those companies at all. Those companies want that kind of EULA everyone
    here seems to hate.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026\_my point was that Monokrom seems more
    willing to treat users as people rather than wallets.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't see
    how that conclusion can be drawn from the tone or simplicity of an EULA. I don't
    want to criticise their EULA in any way, but I am surprised about the reception
    of it. If I rent a car, it might be nice if they just hand over the keys and say
    \xBBdrive carefully! If something goes wrong, just call us, we figure something
    out\xAB. That's friendly, but it's not how a license should or can work. Both
    parties need to agree up front about the details of the use. That the best way
    to go for both sides! If I have read my obligations as user of that rental car
    in ink, I know how to handle it and I know what to expect, should something go
    wrong. There might be a much bigger risk in signing a contract that isn't clear
    about the details  \u2026\r\nAnd looking at the details in the Monokram EULA (at
    least the ones that are mentioned) I don't see much difference to the EULA of
    other independent foundries. So I am a little bit puzzled here. For years I hear
    that EULA clauses are \u201Cinsane\u201D, but if you have the same clauses, but
    say them in a soothing tone, then everything is okay? \r\n\r\nI have heard many
    things here about EULA clauses: absolute craziness, ridiculous, unethical, scare
    tactics, obfuscating, intimidating, and so on \u2026\r\nI don't know if we have
    read the same EULAs or talking about a parallel universe. I am suggesting, that
    for further discussion, those EULA clauses are actually quoted here, so we can
    actually compare the clauses and talk about the facts instead of creating a scary
    mythological EULA beast, that came from the depths of the sea, send by lawyers
    to scare the poor font users and to take all their money. \r\nMaybe we can then
    bust some myths, instead of helping them to grow.  "
  created: '2013-02-06 17:54:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>A short and friendly EULA like the one of Monokrom won't help
    those companies at all.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhich is when they send an email to
    the foundry.\r\n\r\nBTW, long does not have to equate to unethical.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>If
    I have read my obligations as user of that rental car in ink</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou
    read your rental car agreements?! Come on.\r\nWhy do you think they're so nasty?
    So you don't read them!  :-/\r\n\r\nMaybe in Germany the profession of law isn't
    so unethical, but in the US (which happens to be the biggest font market) it's
    arguably the worst thing in society. It's nothing short of crippling, and is part
    of the reason China is passing us.\r\n\r\nPractically speaking however, the main
    Good Thing about the Monokrom EULA that stands out is the allowing of modification.
    It's not a huge deal to most people, but it's better than the other way around.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    have you read the Emigre EULA? (Unless they changed it.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-06 18:03:15'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Which is when they send an email to the foundry.</cite>\r\n\r\nAn email
    stating, that certain things would be allowed doesn't replace a contract. That's
    why you have a lawyer prepare an EULA in the first place \u2026\r\n\r\n<cite>but
    in the US (which happens to be the biggest font market) it's arguably the worst
    thing in society.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgain, you make very general statements, accusing
    lawyers in general and the foundries who hire them. Let\u2019s talk about what
    is actually in certain EULAs.\r\n\r\n<cite> the main Good Thing about the Monokrom
    EULA that stands out is the allowing of modification. </cite>\r\n\r\nWe started
    our foundry in 2004 and allowed font modifications from day one. It's not such
    a big deal. \r\nThings like \u201Cposting static PDFs online\u201D only for an
    additional fee is a much more controversial subject \u2013\_because that actually
    can be considered common font use today. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-06 18:30:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "An email is most certainly a binding contract.\r\n\r\nWhat proportion of
    font houses allow modification today?\r\nAnd if that proportion has changed in
    recent years, why?\r\n\r\nLastly, if you believe in allowing modification, it
    doesn't make sense that you don't mind seeing [so many] other font houses disallow
    it. All this isn't merely about personal whim - we all live together.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-06 18:42:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Font licensing is complicated.\r\n\r\nAs someone who would like to spend
    more time designing typefaces and less on the business side of things, I \uFB01nd
    it really annoying and frustrating that licensing continues to become more and
    more sophisticated, what with the continued evolution and proliferation of font-using
    devices, and the market dynamics of the font industry, particularly as impacted
    by foundries and distributors not owned by type designers, marching to a different
    drum.\r\n\r\nHowever, I recognize that this is not merely a necessary evil to
    my work as a creative, but something in my interests, which keeps the font market
    vibrant, and is ultimately an opportunity.\r\n\r\nWhat goes for me, as a font
    producer, also holds for font users. We are all creatives struggling to make a
    living in a business world dominated by corporations whose best interest is to
    minimize the value of our work.\r\n\r\nI would say to those creatives who \uFB01nd
    dealing with the complexities of font licensing an onerous chore, too bad, that\u2019s
    just the way things are. I\u2019m not unsymapthetic, I share your pain!\r\n\r\nAs
    a working creative, part of your job is purchasing services and supplies, and
    being well informed on such matters enables you to produce better work by optimizing
    your available budget. Shop around.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-06 18:48:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I for one am not surprised. Many people make free fonts to make money later.
    In fact many of the free fonts at places like Dafont require payment for commercial
    use. Even the plagiarized ones.  :-/\r\n\r\nBTW the SIL license does not allow
    \"anything you want\". For example reselling is not allowed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-06 19:09:00'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: The people who ask does not want to resell the fonts... they just want to
    be able to use it without any headache.
  created: '2013-02-06 19:12:51'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "BTW,\r\nYou will be surprised to know how many companies ask for Commercial
    Licenses of Libre fonts. I get 2 or 3 of those emails every day....\r\n\r\nThis
    is my standard reply:\r\n<blockquote>\r\nHi XXXX,\r\nThanks for asking.\r\n\r\nAll
    my fonts so far, are \"Libre\" fonts, released under the SIL Open Font License.\r\nYou
    can use them for free for both personal and commercial projects alike.\r\nYou
    can share the fonts, you can modify the fonts, you can do pretty much anything
    you want.\r\nNo restrictions! And there is no need to buy a commercial license.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to show your support, you can make a small donation at www.impallari.com.
    But it's not a requirement, just a little good karma :)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nPablo\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nEven
    so, some of them insist on buying a license.. In that cases, I sell them a commercial
    version using a Standard EULA."
  created: '2013-02-06 19:19:15'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Well said, Nick! :-)\r\n\r\n<cite>An email is most certainly a binding contract.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    am not going to start another long side discussion about this. But no, an informal
    email discussion concerning an EULA will not automatically become part of a later
    font license bought on a foundry\u2019s webshop, let alone when bought somewhere
    else like on MyFonts. \r\n\r\n<cite>Lastly, if you believe in allowing modification,
    it doesn't make sense that you don't mind seeing [so many] other font houses disallow
    it. </cite>\r\n\r\nIt makes perfect sense. And I have explained it many times
    now. It was our business decision to allow it, but I, as a font user, respect
    every foundry who does not allow it \u2013 as I respect Monokram\u2019s no-letter-products-clause.
    It's their business decision and if I really can't live with it, I simply don't
    purchase their products. But since a no-modification-clause and and a no-letter-product-clause
    doesn't affect 99.99% of regular font use it's tiresome that you fixate on that
    0.01% use and judge the whole EULA and foundry by it. A standard EULA is made
    for standard use. What's so hard to get about that? If you have different requirements,
    then negotiate an alternative EULA. But don't expect that all foundries in the
    world share your personal requirements. \r\nAnd those are your personal requirements,
    because both from my experience as a graphic designer, as well as from my experience
    of running a foundry, I have never met a significant amount of font users who
    would need to change every font they use. "
  created: '2013-02-06 19:38:55'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>It treats people, hence society, in an inhuman fashion.</cite>\r\n\r\nA
    standard contract that regulates standard use and excludes non-standard use threats
    the whole society in an inhuman way. Wow!\r\nSo much for serious discussions.
    Time to get out of here. Luckily there TypeDrawers! ;-)"
  created: '2013-02-06 19:45:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I on the other hand do not equate sincerity or disagreement with frivolity.\r\n\r\nAnd
    the more somebody agrees with me, the less I learn from him.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-06 20:08:02'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "<blockquote>It treats people, hence society, in an inhuman fashion.</blockquote>\r\nI
    can see it, just there\u2026 no\u2026 on your left\u2026 yes there\u2026 can you
    see it?\r\n\r\nI think it's\u2026\r\n\r\ngodwin's law\u2026\r\n\r\ncoming right
    at us!\r\n\r\nI refuz modificazion, yez, thiz iz my ztrong believ, you vill not
    touch my outlinez you dirty bezier amateur, heil!\r\n\r\nOh Zeus! \u2026 it's
    getting better and better. Thank you hrant.\r\n\r\n(oh and don't bother about
    my lack of trying to make a constructive discussion here\u2026 i've spent enough
    time on forums to know how pointless it is. better just have fun, getting lectured
    about how inhumane we are for not letting some designers modify our fonts, and
    learning that we are just intimidating assholes\u2026 \"you talking to me?!\"
    \u2026\r\nwho's making blank statements and cold assessments about people based
    on his own narrowminded and  dogmatic views on things\u2026)"
  created: '2013-02-06 23:03:21'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Like Pablo, I also get a lot of inquiries about buying commercial licenses
    for my freeware fonts, and my answer is quite similar: free is free, but not free
    to resell\u2026"
  created: '2013-02-07 02:59:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Pablo, based on your email (always a binding statement, at least in the US,
    and probably Europe as well*) they can have a case for reselling it. Be careful.\r\n\r\n*
    BTW in some countries if you <em>text</em> your wife \"I want a divorce.\" on
    three consecutive days, it's a done deal.\r\n\r\nRalf, if you say something in
    an email, you are responsible for it. Period. If it conflicts with the EULA in
    being more permissive, guess which version the client will choose to honor. It
    sounds like you should spend more time with lawyers - luckily you don't seem to
    mind their smell.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>What's so hard to get about that?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt
    treats people, hence society, in an inhuman fashion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-07 03:05:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just to be crystal: I don't believe that <em>everybody</em> that has a no-mod
    clause is being unethical or unduly intimidating. It could be as innocent as being
    merely confused.  :-)\r\n\r\nBTW, I don't think it's kosher to cite Godwin's Law
    when you're the one triggering it...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-07 03:22:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[to follow]'
  created: '2013-02-07 06:18:16'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "I barely just pushed the discussion one the other side of the fence.\r\nYou
    implying that no-mod clauses are an inhumane way to treat people, you were almost
    there.\r\nAnyway\u2026\r\n\r\nEULAs as a whole are intimidation tactics. Even
    monokrom's foundry. In the end it is always about saying \"these are the rules
    that we set. You are free not to respect them but we might sue you\".\r\n\r\nIs
    it good intimidation or bad intimidation? \r\nIn an ideal world, EULAs would be
    unnecessary.\r\nBut we live in the real worls. Type foundries also. And we are
    in 2013\u2026\r\nMost foundries are now 1-2-3 men operations, dealing with one
    to hundred of thousands of men operations.\r\nSo while it's good to state complaints,
    that kind of perspective should not be lost in sight.\r\nThe \"huge foundries
    corporations vs small designers\", that's really the minority now.\r\n\r\nIt is
    not eulas and some or their clauses, or foundries, that are inhumane. It's the
    world we live in.\r\nThat snowballs into everything, and also into excessive mesures
    of legalese that foundries might take.\r\nWhen you are a small foundry and you
    work hard for years to make good type, and to promote your work\u2026\r\nit is
    quite normal to make sure that nobody will take advantage of you or your work
    through a weak eula.\r\nEspecially corporations much bigger than you. So I prefere
    to put a no-mod clause in my eula. And then allow mod on an individual basis.
    I am open to dialogue too. I think it's actually interesting also to know what
    designers are doing with my font. If they want to modify it for something, I might
    very often allow it but i'd prefere to know in which context and what's the plan.
    I might also learn something from it, and I might avoid the designer creating
    problems with the font. But I want the option to say no.\r\nAnd especially to
    big companies, who might just use the barely paid intern to make a mod of our
    fonts for free, which they will for sure bill to the client."
  created: '2013-02-07 08:50:02'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Peter,\r\n\r\nIn an ideal world, you would need only one rule\u2014the Golden
    Rule\u2014or Hillel the Elder\u2019s version of the same: that which you find
    hateful, do not unto any man. Unfortunately, human beings\u2014and especially
    human beings within the current Electro-Western Mega-Mindless culture\u2014tend
    to consider themselves exceptional, and hence make exceptions to these very simple
    rules all the time, and all in \u201Cgood\u201D conscience\u2026"
  created: '2013-02-07 13:24:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, we're completely not on the same page. Maybe not even the same planet.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-07 14:09:53'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Hey, Bub\u2014\r\n\r\nIn case you hadn\u2019t noticed, very few people inhabit
    Planet Hrant\u2026which is not necessarily a bad thing\u2026"
  created: '2013-02-07 23:08:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We are all islands... in an archipelago.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-07 23:30:42'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "hrant: I agree up to a point. Personally, I wouldn't care if the user modifies
    my fonts. Languages being a very complex issue, my knowledge of the subject is
    limited. I would refuse to warranty the work. I would also refuse to fix it or
    the price I would be forced to charge would be prohibitive. Another concern is
    that when users modify fonts, for some unknown reason they seem to think that
    it is now their font. I saw an example of this a couple of years ago on another
    forum. Lastly, if my font is sent out to a professional to modify ( a clear EULA
    violation) he will be paid a lot more to modify the font than I was paid for the
    font. I know of at least one person who does this. So, all in all I would have
    to say, no I don't think I want to allow it. \r\n\r\nIn the end, why should you
    care. If you don't like it don't buy it. "
  created: '2013-02-08 15:37:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Also: the original designer should get a copy of any modified version (although
    I've never seen a EULA like that).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>a clear EULA violation</blockquote>\r\n\r\nUnless
    you allow it if the third party also has a license, as Adobe does.\r\n\r\nAnd
    why should somebody care? Because what goes around comes around. Because caring
    is good for us.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-08 15:48:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\u201CLastly, if you believe in allowing modification, it doesn't make sense
    that you don't mind seeing [so many] other font houses disallow it.\u201D\r\n\r\nNonsense.\r\n\r\nI
    believe in the type designer having the right to put whatever restrictions they
    like in their EULA, whether or not they are reasonable. End users shouldn\u2019t
    license fonts that have EULAs that are incompatible with their needs.\r\n\r\nYes,
    my own EULA allows modifications. I am utterly fine with other type designers
    not allowing modifications, however. It is not only within their rights, it is
    not even terribly unreasonable; modified and converted fonts are frequently the
    source of support problems, and designers may (quite understandably) have strong
    feelings about preserving their work without modifications."
  created: '2013-02-10 01:27:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Although I don't agree with the bulk of your stance, I do have to admit what
    I said was too dogmatic. It is actually possible to not have a no-mod clause but
    still accept that somebody else would have one; however to me that makes sense
    only if one goes to the trouble of understanding the other person's situation,
    <em>not</em> because I think it's purely an individual decision (because nothing
    really is).\r\n\r\nFor example, I'm OK with MS having a no-mod clause in their
    fonts (even though I might still elect to violate that clause in certain cases)
    because they don't make money from fonts, so the bad PR from \"bad support\" of
    modified fonts isn't worth it (MS can't really go around suing people for EULA
    violations or charging them to clean up font messes). This is not the same as
    thinking \"they can do anything they want\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-10 01:56:14'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: I'm wondering, (again open question to foundries/type designers); some of
    the more extreme points of the EULA, is it meant like "We expect you to follow
    this!" or "We write this as a back up in case you screw us over and there is a
    lawsuit"? The reason I ask is that I just came across a EULA from a foundry I
    really like that don't allow the font to be shown on online images if the elements
    of the font is higher than 500px. I kind of understand the point behind it, and
    what kind of use they protect themselves from by including this. On the other
    hand, I don't want to buy a font where I have to constantly check if I'm allowed
    to use it in a big headline on a website. Anyone has an opinion on this?
  created: '2013-02-10 22:58:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's sort of related to the \"scare tactics\" I mentioned: putting things
    you expect people to not take seriously, but you might choose to get them in trouble
    for. I might be too much of an idealist, but I believe in saying things you mean,
    and meaning things you say.\r\n\r\nBTW, is it H&FJ?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-10 23:09:47'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: "No. I figured I didn't want to call them out there, but its Danish type foundry
    Playtype \r\n\r\nhttps://www.playtype.com/about/typefaces/eula\r\n\r\n<em>When
    using fonts on the web or other forms of digital publication in a way where they
    are not embedded, but used as images. In image files such as JPEG, PNG, TIFF,
    and BMP-files, the font forms part of an image and where it is not possible to
    \u2018grab\u2019 or extract the font sofware in any way as is the case with an
    embedded font. Therefore, such image formats are allowed as long as the image
    files do not feature more than 50% of the character set in the font software and
    as long as image files feature fixed images, do not feature outlines of the font(s),
    do not permit alteration by third party, and do not contain elements from the
    font software that are larger than 500 pixels in height.</em>\r\n\r\nMight be
    well-meaning so people won't print the alphabet and glyphs, black on white in
    very high-res so it's easy to auto-trace? On the other hand, if I were to rip
    off fonts I'd head to The Pirate Bay. If time is money, then ripping off a font
    from a jpg is a loose-loose situation. "
  created: '2013-02-11 20:48:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed. A lot of such clauses are delusional.\r\n\r\n\"The more you tighten
    your grip, Tarkin, the more star systems will slip through your fingers.\"\r\n\u2013
    Princess Leia Organa\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-11 21:11:57'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-wntX-a3jSY
  created: '2013-02-12 01:59:47'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: "Not sure if I would like to live in a world where only one country exist
    following only one law system [\u2026] with only one typeface distributor, one
    EULA, and probably one unique typeface family.\r\n\r\nLife is more beautiful because
    of his diversity.\r\nIf you don't like diversity, complain to your parents who
    don't opened your eyes."
  created: '2013-02-16 15:13:20'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Well, Jean, we seem to be headed for the \u201Conly one typeface distributor\u201D
    model, and it appears that most of the posters here are content (?) with that
    possibility\u2026"
  created: '2013-02-16 22:36:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "JFP: Agreed.\r\n\r\nNick, there's a lot of room between Content and Dejected.
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-16 22:54:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nick, I have so many distributors it\u2019s hard to keep track of them.\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-17 00:11:43'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Nick, I have many distributors too, and they\u2019re all struggling in the
    face of the Gorilla swallowing up apps, distribution channels and sheer web presence\u2026"
  created: '2013-02-18 00:20:43'
- author:
    name: sondre m
    picture: 114087
  body: 'Well written, user-friendly presented EULA. http://commercialtype.com/user_license '
  created: '2013-02-24 01:15:53'
- author:
    name: xy
  body: "\u2026wondering why this board doesn't have links for the next pages on top\u2026
    real pain\u2026"
  created: '2013-03-04 12:27:50'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: Agreed!
  created: '2013-03-04 18:25:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Somebody had mentioned reselling digital goods.\r\nThis just in: http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-22000668\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-02 20:13:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Has this\r\nhttp://www.daltonmaag.com/news/64.html\r\nbeen up for a while?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-18 17:52:00'
date: '2013-01-31 22:58:51'
node_type: forum
title: Petition for a sane EULA

---
