---
author:
  name: Renaissance Man
  picture: 112023
body: "A classic typographic resource, the 1923 edition of the American Type Founders
  Specimen Book and Catalog, has been released for the first time ever in electronic
  format. And you can download it for free in full-color, high-resolution PDFs from
  Sevanti Letterpress. \r\n\r\nhttp://sevanti-letterpress.com/download/1923-atf-specimen-book-download/\r\n\r\nI
  tried to see if this was posted before and couldn't find it. Sorry if this is a
  duplicate."
comments:
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Thanks, but I already have the hard copy.
  created: '2013-02-13 20:51:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice. I once checked it out from the UCLA library (and made some judicious
    scans :-) but it will certainly be useful to have it in my pocket, forever.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-13 21:18:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "They may say high resolution, but I doubt it is adequate for full typographic
    examination, especially of the small size settings.\r\n\r\nAnd \u201Cfull color\u201D
    (RGB pixels) is not quite as good as it sounds, because unscreened spot color
    was used in the document."
  created: '2013-02-13 22:01:43'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: Some of the color pages are fairly sharp, but the majority of the pages are
    just fuzzy, not suitable to study any details.
  created: '2013-02-13 22:21:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's only 400 dpi, so certainly not suitable for close tracing, but the \"atmosphere\"
    of the typefaces (to me the main point) should come through.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-13 22:38:27'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "@Hrant, have you seen the hi-res yet? If not, download one section.\r\n\r\nIf
    you just want to look at old faces, that's one thing; they're not usable as source
    material."
  created: '2013-02-13 23:46:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'll be taking a closer look later, definitely.\r\n\r\nI guess it would depend
    on what one means by \"source material\"; since I'm not a \"literal revivalist\"
    to me the only point of such specimen books is for tangential inspiration.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-14 00:02:03'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "If you don't have the hard copy, you can buy one for $300-350.\r\n\r\nYou
    have your choice of a 149MB or a higher-res 999MB PDF version. \r\n\r\nIf you
    don't give a rat's ass, or free hi-res digital isn't good enough,  do without,
    fuhgeddaboudit, and QYB.\r\n\r\nSheesh!"
  created: '2013-02-14 01:30:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: There was an earlier version at the Internet Archive, but as that had significant
    quality problems, this is still very good news.
  created: '2013-02-14 01:49:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Steve, thanks for posting this.\r\n\r\nQuestioning the quality of resolution
    and color on a typographic forum is not bitching.\r\n400 dpi is not high resolution
    for type.\r\nI always like to see the impression that metal type makes, and the
    ink gain, and can never get enough res.\r\nOne doesn\u2019t have to be a \u201Cliteral
    revivalist\u201D to want that.\r\n\r\nOf course, it would be too many megabites
    <em>now</em> to scan the whole catalog at \u201Csuper high res\u201D, but if the
    internet is to present a simulacrum of the real object, some artefacts must be
    shown, say a few pages, in higher resolution, and perhaps in oblique views revealing
    depth, or even in 3D.\r\n\r\nOne day, thanks to Moore\u2019s Law, this sort of
    zoom in will be possible:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/A_foot_4119.jpg]\r\n(This
    image from a $50, 10mp camera.)\r\n\r\nAs an aside, scanning a 35 mm color slide
    on a transparency scanner ($150 scanner, 9600 dpi), you can get down to the \uFB01lm
    grain. Accordingly, I calculate the 35 mm recorded image as around 15 megapixels.\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-14 04:29:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm, well it turns out it's not <em>effectively</em> 400dpi (which to me
    is decent resolution for anything but \"forensic type design\") because they seem
    to have used the lowest possible JPEG quality - here's a screengrab for people
    who don't want to bother downloading the very large files:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1923_3867.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt
    <em>is</em> pretty blurry... Now, this doesn't make it useless*: it still does
    an acceptable job giving a feeling of what the book -and the era- was about; and
    people can certainly find plenty of forms and ideas to be inspired by. And really,
    you can't complain about a no-strings-attached gift.\r\n\r\n* BTW Nick, I love
    looking super close at things like ink gain too, but that's not really what's
    worthwhile about that ATF specimen book.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-14 05:16:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Your screengrab seems to show a highly satisfactory resolution for most purposes.\r\n\r\nIt
    is sufficient for type revivals, I would think, to give a specific example."
  created: '2013-02-14 05:17:53'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "@Nick, really nice image! I'd love a print of that at 24\" x 24\"... super
    awesome texture.\r\n\r\nOver the past little while I have irrefutably proven that
    when it comes to digital photography = cash in the bank ... it's all about quality
    not quantity.  I picked up a cheapo A630 (capable of only 8mp) and a 19teen something
    manual typewriter all for less than 50 bucks. I then applied all my inbred talents
    to produce some incredible imagery which I then sold as high end prints!!  So
    far I have turned 8 mp imagery (plus a 5ive dollar typewriter) into just over
    2k ...and still counting... :)\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to technology = earned cash
    ... for the digital artist/craftsman it's all about quality not quantity.\r\n\r\nPoint
    being that with the right amount of skill plus your own talent(s) you can realize
    a handsome return on a minimal investment. \r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-02-14 06:36:10'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "This was posted in case anyone wanted to see what the 1923 ATF Specimen Book
    and Catalog looked like, out of curiousity or historical interest, without spending
    hundreds of dollars.\r\n\r\n<strong>Help me out.</strong> A digital copy of a
    digital original is an exact duplicate. A scan of anything\u2014theoretically\u2014can
    never be as good as the original. If the hi-res PDF is viewed <em>at the same
    size</em> as the original book, how much difference is there to someone with normal
    and unaided vision? \r\n\r\nTo those who bemoan the lack of resolution, what magnification
    would you take to the <strong><em>book</em></strong>? 10X, 30X, 100X, 1000X? How
    big an enlargement is too big, assuming for typographical purposes, and not to
    sell 24\" X 24\" prints?\r\n\r\nAre we talking perfection and theory here or something
    practical?"
  created: '2013-02-14 17:04:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you view something onscreen at the same size as the original you're at
    the resolution of the screen, which is <em>way</em> less than the physical version
    (Retina, shmetina). Unless you're legally blind you will see -or at least feel-
    a difference. If you're <em>illegally</em> blind go hide in a cabin in Big Bear.
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\nAs I alluded, the usefulness of a scan depends on the user's intentions.
    This PDF is fine for some things, just not making faithful revivals (which might
    very well be a feature and not a bug :-) or seeing delicate details of craftsmanship
    (which is sad).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-14 17:10:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Steve, I don\u2019t have a copy of this particular specimen book.\r\nThis
    new online project is of absolutely no use to me.\r\nAnd yet surely I represent
    the kind of person that would be interested in an historical type specimen book.\r\nI
    have been all over the internet looking at scans of old typography, and there
    is NEVER ENOUGH RES!\r\nI\u2019m not satis\uFB01ed with admiring page layouts,
    as a typophile\u2014a connoisseur  of type\u2014I want to see those delicate details
    of craftsmanship (both founding and printing) that Hrant refers to. That\u2019s
    the <em>sine qua non</em> of letterpress.\r\nI don\u2019t think it\u2019s too
    much to ask for bigger \uFB01les\u2014after all, people are downloading gigabytes
    of movies\u2014and this is surely the trend. So I say to those altruists who scan
    and post, get with the tour!\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, I will continue to collect
    original historical documents, or reference material with ultra-high resolution
    photographic reproductions printed by gravure, such as <em>The Art & History of
    Books</em> by Norma Levarie:\r\nhttp://www.alibris.com/booksearch.detail?invid=10024732733&qwork=425630&qsort=&page=1\r\n(This
    is the 1968 edition which I refer to, I don\u2019t know how good the reproductions
    are in subsequent editions.)\r\nOnline scans have to be better than those in this
    book, which has the advantage of being printed on paper, the re\uFB02ective medium
    of the originals, and thus has that quality of facsimile authenticity which online
    resources don\u2019t have\u2014unless one can print out a page from a digital
    scan at comparable resolution, but that\u2019s a tall order."
  created: '2013-02-14 18:43:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What would be cool is streaming for <em>PDFs</em>. Wait a second, I've actually
    seen that I think - like when you can start looking at a PDF before it finishes
    downloading. Right? So you could have a multi-gigabyte file but it loads in the
    background, and jumps to loading the requested page (and predictively the pages
    around it).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-14 18:53:36'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Although more resolution would be useful and nice, this is <em>considerably</em>
    better than the previous version (which basically had to be downloaded as individual
    page images, if one could figure out how to do that - click on \"all files (HTTPS)\").\r\n\r\n[[http://archive.org/details/SpecimenBookAndCatalogue1923]]\r\n\r\nThere
    are already some other specimen books on the Internet Archive (chiefly by Circuitous
    Root) that are at significantly higher resolutions, but which pose potential difficulties
    in downloading. (They can, however, be overcome, since nothing prevents you from
    using a \"download manager\" program with the Internet Archive, it should be noted.)"
  created: '2013-02-14 19:03:07'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Thanks for the answers. And so nice of you to elaborate, Nick.\r\n\r\n<em>there
    is NEVER ENOUGH RES!</em>\r\n\r\nI seems as though you want more res than the
    original designers ever had or were capable of. (Or am I wrong about that?)\r\n\r\nIf
    you could have pristine glyphs that were literally ten feet high is that good
    enough? What would you do with them?\r\n\r\nWhen I first became interested in
    typography, I intensely scrutinized letterforms. I often disliked idiosyncrasies,
    I loved certain glyphs in particular fonts, etc. It took me a while to learn about
    the color and density and kerning and readability and legibility of a typeface.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m
    not satis\uFB01ed with admiring page layouts, as a typophile\u2014a connoisseur
    of type\u2014I want to see those delicate details of craftsmanship (both founding
    and printing) that Hrant refers to. That\u2019s the sine qua non of letterpress.</em>\r\n\r\nNo
    argument here. But for the most part, letterpress is gone. And \"those delicate
    details of craftsmanship\" (I don't think) attest to color or readability. When
    you make a font, how big are the glyphs\u2014either as sketches on paper or on
    screen?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-14 19:30:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The delicate details of craftsmanship are the key to understanding letterpress.\r\nFirstly
    there is the work of the punch cutter and the letter founder.\r\nThen there is
    the work of the press man.\r\nThose are connected.\r\nOne has to see how the metal
    bites into the paper, and how the ink is deposited.\r\nThe letters were designed
    with that in mind.\r\nSo how can one understand an historical type design without
    intimately observing this three-dimensional physical process?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CloseUp_5106.jpg]\r\n6
    pt type, 1843."
  created: '2013-02-15 05:10:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But what proportion of people looking at an ATF specimen book want to \"understanding
    letterpress\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-15 07:16:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I seems as though you want more res than the original designers ever had
    or were capable of. (Or am I wrong about that?)\"\r\n\r\nQuite wrong, yes.\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-15 11:24:49'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: The only thing that will suffice is an exact recreation of the original, something
    which maps the original perfectly down to the finest details, the perfect imperfections.
    Something like the concept described in Borges' <em>On Exactitude In Science</em>,
    itself an elaboration on a concept from Carroll's <em>Sylvie and Bruno Concluded</em>,
    that is a map of the thing itself on a 1 to 1 scale.
  created: '2013-02-15 12:46:44'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>I seems as though you want more res than the original designers
    ever had or were capable of. (Or am I wrong about that?)</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    machining tolerances for Linotype design and manufacture were down to one quarter
    of 1/1,000th of an inch. Presumably they could measure that precisely as well.
    By my calculation, that would be equivalent to a resolution of 4,000 ppi.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GriffithExamining_4889.jpg]<br><em>C.H.
    Griffith examining a type proof.</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nThe type production drawings
    were done at a scale of approximately 10 inches high. For a 10-pt type, that would
    be equivalent to zooming in to around 7200%.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Caledonia-10_n_6491.jpg]<br><em>Detail
    of the production drawing for Caledonia 10-pt n.</em>\r\n\r\nNote that the sidebearings
    here differ by 0.00025 inches. That would be the equivalent of 1.8 em units in
    a digital font with a 1000 UPM."
  created: '2013-02-15 14:26:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kent, great stuff.\r\nAnd now I feel good that 2 units is the smallest sidebearing
    adjustment I make.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-15 14:40:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026a map of the thing itself on a 1 to 1 scale\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nA
    stereotype.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI imagine that if pixels were put on pistons, then
    the effect of relief printing could be simulated."
  created: '2013-02-15 17:30:31'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> if pixels were put on pistons\r\n\r\nIt's possible that in the future something
    like that might actually be possible. They are already working on screens that
    can change shape to make clickable buttons. It's not the pixels that are moving,
    but who knows what might be possible someday.\r\n\r\nhttp://thedroidguy.com/2013/02/a-keyboard-that-rises-up-from-a-flat-surface/\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/keyboard_3852.jpg]"
  created: '2013-02-15 18:24:38'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: duplicate post deleted
  created: '2013-02-15 22:04:39'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "I'm glad Nick can \"see those delicate details of craftsmanship (both founding
    and printing)\" that are the \"sine qua non of letterpress\" by magnifying the
    hard copy a bazillion times. I did appreciate his perspective.\r\n\r\nThat may
    be fine for close examination, but that's not how people read.\r\n\r\nIt's Kent
    who spoke to the issue that I was raising. I had no idea that the tolerances were
    so small and the ratios so large. Thank you so much, Kent! I like it when replies
    are actually answers."
  created: '2013-02-15 22:19:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>that's not how people read.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut it <em>is</em>
    how people <em>make.</em>\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-15 22:29:01'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "And now a word from our sponsor\u2026\r\n\r\nHey: among the stuff that I
    donated to the Albert and Shirley Smalls Special Collections Library at the University
    of Virginia is a duplicate copy of the ATF 1923 specimen book, all beat up to
    hell (because it was SERIOUSLY used in a working print shop, I suspect). What
    am I bid? Or, for that matter, it turns out i had THREE copies of the Barnhart
    Brother & Spindler Catalog #25. I\u2019ve promised one to Luc Devroye; should
    I donate the third copy to the Library of Congress (they have only one copy, so
    it\u2019s housed in the Rare Books room), or does someone want to flash a lot
    of cash my way?\r\n\r\nBTW, anyone else sampled Sam Adams\u2019 Wee Heavy Ale?
    10% ABV: oy vay!"
  created: '2013-02-15 23:25:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That may not be how people read, but this is a type specimen, not a novel.\r\n\r\nSure,
    the layout  and  display  type  are  adequate,  and  there  is  some  art  historical
    \ interest  in  the  faux  ads,  but   a  certain  amount  of  the  book  is  text
    \ type,  and  that  is  rendered  meaningless  at  the  so-called  high  res  of
    \ the  files  in  question.\r\n\r\nI  wonder  what  my  resolution  is,  when
    \ I  take  off  my  glasses  and  look  at  type  from  four  inches, which is
    \ what  I  prefer."
  created: '2013-02-16 00:26:35'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@kentlew:\r\n<cite>The machining tolerances for Linotype design and manufacture
    were down to one quarter of 1/1,000th of an inch. Presumably they could measure
    that precisely as well. By my calculation, that would be equivalent to a resolution
    of 4,000 ppi.</cite>\r\n\r\nThank you for a meaningful and informative contribution
    to this discussion.\r\n\r\nI still think that someone interested in performing
    a type revival would have the data he needs from the specimen book as it is provided,
    even if it will mean a little more work.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, some data in <em>Typographical
    Printing-Surfaces</em> by Legros and Grant suggests that foundry types were usually
    designed so that their widths would be multiples of 1/4 or 1/8 of a point. This
    suggests that a higher-res scan at some multiple of 576 dpi would potentially
    have extra usefulness.\r\n\r\nTo adjust for the fact that a printer's point is
    not exactly 1/72 inch, make that 578 dpi, if practical."
  created: '2013-02-16 02:38:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Except the sensors in a scanner are not that funny density, so it's moot.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-16 02:45:10'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Well, if one is using a camera, one can control its distance from the source
    material. As well, while sensors have a fixed spacing, the time intervals between
    when they are read during scanning can sometimes be controlled flexibly, giving
    one near-unlimited choice of resolution in one direction.\r\n\r\nAs it happens,
    0.0081734 mm, or 1/3107.6 of an inch, is very nearly exactly 1/43 of a point and
    1/46 of a Didot point, making it a nearly ideal standard scanning resolution for
    both Continental and British/American type specimen books both.\r\n\r\nNeglecting,
    of course, effects due to changes in the size of the paper due to humidity and
    suchlike..."
  created: '2013-02-16 03:09:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I just thought I would put the information on record in case any scanner
    designers are reading this forum.\r\n\r\nAlso, unless the film is curved, flat
    originals map to flat sensors at constant scale through most forms of optics,
    as long as correction for curvature of field (and distortion) is present."
  created: '2013-02-16 11:28:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Presumably they could measure that precisely as well\"\r\n\r\nWe had different
    brass rules for each size master (8, 10, or 12 e.g.), but they all met at 10,000th
    of an inch."
  created: '2013-02-16 12:02:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm, maybe <em>NASA</em> can control camera distances that precisely...
    :-)  Not to mention that different parts of the original would have to be at <em>exactly</em>
    the same distance to the lens, so you'd need some kind of special shallow bowl
    to place the original in, and somehow get it to sit perfectly flat in it...\r\n\r\nPlus
    I'm actually not sure how pervasive L&G's claim is (although it would certainly
    make more sense for ATF than in general).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-02-16 14:27:34'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MergenthalerBrassScales03_6453.jpg]\r\n\r\nRumor
    has it that these were Matthew Carter\u2019s brass rules. (From the collection
    of the Museum of Printing in North Andover, MA.)\r\n\r\nDavid, I was actually
    referring to the ability to measure finished type \u2014 using calipers, micrometers,
    and such. \r\n\r\nAnd I have no idea what the magnification power is of that microscope
    device that CHG is pictured using above."
  created: '2013-02-16 15:55:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@John: <em>I still think that someone interested in performing a type revival
    would have the data he needs from the specimen book as it is provided, even if
    it will mean a little more work.</em>\r\n\r\nI used a 10\xD7 loupe on 10 pt. type
    when I was working on my Scotch Modern revival.\r\nI needed to look that closely,
    because I was trying to make a font that would create a facsimile, with today\u2019s
    high-res offset lithography, of mid 19th century high-res letterpress printing.
    The amount of press gain is quite different now, and works differently on different
    parts of the letter than it did back then. I needed to see the variations in hairline
    and serif thicknesses in the original, closely, and how much of that was in the
    metal and how much the result of ink gain, in order to understand the structure
    and function of that type design and thus enable an accurate simulacrum.\r\n\r\nOne
    of the things I discovered in the Scotch Modern project was that facsimile revivals,
    with their antiquarian \uFB02avour, are an abstruse taste. Bembo has a broader
    appeal and usefulness than Poliphilus.\r\n\r\nSo you are correct John, that there
    is enough information in these ATF PDFs for \u201Ca type revival\u201D, if not
    for facsimile quality."
  created: '2013-02-16 18:19:32'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: Nice detail, Nick. Thanks.
  created: '2013-02-16 23:47:29'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Ink gain as Nick calls it or "squish" as I call it - is what gave letterpress
    a warmth and variety that digital set lithography does not have. It also had an
    impact on the weight of some digital versions of typefaces depending on the source.
    The spread of the letter depended on press pressure, nature of ink etc.
  created: '2013-02-17 13:32:24'
date: '2013-02-13 20:47:34'
node_type: forum
title: 1923 ATF Specimen Book and Catalog - Free PDF

---
