---
author:
  name: daverowland
  picture: 117354
body: "Following on from this Twitter conversation https://twitter.com/typographica/status/307302297250168832\r\n\r\nThere's
  obviously a lot of feeling about the recent trend of launching fonts with 80-90%
  discounts. Some foundries say it cheapens fonts, and some are forced to emulate
  the offers in order to be noticed. As a marketing technique, it really works well
  in the short term as it pushes the new fonts quickly up the sales charts, but after
  the sale's ended, how long do they stick around?\r\n\r\nThe sales charts at MyFonts
  are based solely on dollar value, so a font family at $5 has to sell ten times as
  many as one at $50 to reach the same chart position. I had an idea for weighting
  the charts in favour of more realistically priced fonts:\r\n\r\nFont Family X -
  standard price $200, 90% intro offer = $20 each family\r\nFont Family Y - standard
  price $200, 50% intro offer = $100 each family\r\nFont Family Z - standard price
  $200, 0% intro offer = $200 each family\r\n\r\nAs it stands, to reach the same position,
  X needs to sell five times as many as Y, which needs to sell twice as much as Z.\r\nIf
  the sales charts mechanism was changed such that the dollar value received was also
  affected by the offer price, say by taking half the offer percentage off the resulting
  price (only for working out chart position), the prices of each font above (in terms
  of how the chart sees them) would be:\r\n\r\nFont Family X - standard price $200,
  90% intro offer = $20 each family . minus 45% = $11\r\nFont Family Y - standard
  price $200, 50% intro offer = $100 each family . minus 25% = $75\r\nFont Family
  Z - standard price $200, 0% intro offer = $200 each family . minus 0% = $200\r\n\r\nClearly,
  the more heavily discounted fonts now need to sell even more in relation to non
  discounted fonts to reach the same position in the chart. There is still a marketing
  advantage to putting your fonts on offer, but the more ridiculous offers would not
  be as effective as they are now.\r\n\r\nWhat do think? Is this fair? I'm undecided,
  but I think the system as it is now is starting to force foundries making decent
  fonts to discount heavily in order to keep up with not-so-decent fonts. If it continues,
  it won't be long before every new release is 99% off for a month then never sells
  again after that. If a new system could be shown to give more long term sales, that
  can only be a good thing."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So your plan is to convince MyFonts to change their ranking policy? To prevent
    foundries from harming their brand out of desperation for a good ranking? What's
    in it for MyFonts? Maybe they <em>like</em> it this way?\r\n\r\nBTW, I'm not sure
    that a brand is damaged because of discounting. Jeremy Tankard has a very strong
    brand, but he discounts up to <em>95%</em> (if only for one day). After all, the
    best way to build a brand is to get people to use your stuff.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-04 05:31:40'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "Fair points. As I said, I'm undecided. I wouldn't ask MyFonts to change anything;
    they've been good to me! It was just an idea. I'm not really concerned about cheapening
    my brand by putting things on offer. If I was overly concerned with my 'brand'
    I'd have ditched a load of fonts by now. I guess I just feel for newer foundries
    whose only way of gaining exposure is to underprice. I have a feeling this pricing
    model may just be a trend that is unsustainable in the long run. I hope so anyway.\r\nMy
    worry is that customers may stop buying any fonts at full price, knowing that
    vastly discounted fonts are never far away. Hopefully though, this may cause foundries
    to make ever more interesting and different fonts, as big discounts cease to be
    a factor in separating their fonts from others', because virtually all fonts are
    hugely discounted.\r\nBTW, I don't wish to come across like I'm saying all fonts
    with big discounts are bad, or that big discounts are inherently a bad thing.
    I just wanted to carry on the discussion where participants could use more than
    140 characters!"
  created: '2013-03-04 07:19:49'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>the system as it is now is starting to force foundries making decent
    fonts to discount heavily</cite>\r\n\r\nNo one is forced to anything. Those are
    \u201Cmarket penetration\u201D offers. They are supposed to reach an audience
    which has over 100.000 fonts to choose from and hundreds of new Twitter messages
    every day. So for a short period of time you make a loud offer people can't resist
    and by this you spread the word. That's it.\r\nThose fonts don't sell because
    they are in the bestseller list, but because of the offer itself, which is such
    a good deal that people start to spread the news and that creates the snowball
    effect. So I don't think it's caused by the list or it's calculation. \r\n\r\n<cite>
    If it continues, it won't be long before every new release is 99% off for a month
    \u2026 </cite>\r\n\r\nCertainly, that will happen for some fonts. \r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026\_then
    never sells again after that. </cite>\r\n\r\nMyFonts is just a retailer. It's
    up to the foundry to keep the sales up and there are many different strategies
    to achieve this. A bestseller list is just that. It shows what sells. It can't
    weigh anything to support \u201Cquality fonts\u201D. \r\nMaybe they could start
    an \u201CEditor\u2019s choice\u201D section where quality fonts are suggested,
    but I don't think we need to blame the calculation of the bestseller list for
    how foundries set up their pricing. "
  created: '2013-03-04 08:33:55'
- author:
    name: Anthony Noel
  body: "Hi Dave,\r\n\r\nTake a look at MyFonts' [[http://www.myfonts.com/bestsellers/
    | best sellers list]], instead of the Hot New Fonts list. I might be wrong, but
    nothing on the best sellers list is currently on an introductory sale, but there's
    plenty on there that were. That would seem to indicate that the penetration idea
    works, and that sales are sustained afterwards by a font's higher visibility.
    There's also fonts on there that were promoted by other methods, such as free
    weights (which remain free, by the way \u2013\_no restrictions there). \r\n\r\nAnthony"
  created: '2013-03-04 09:07:47'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "imo: The intent of introduction offers like these is to get the fonts in
    the market in a fair volume. My reasoning is that a lot of designers (maybe not
    to sure about their knowledge in this field) are wont to go for what is used by
    their \u2018well-known\u2019 contemporaries.\r\n\r\nMr Buivenga\u2019s fonts are
    exemplars: they have become very popular, clearly because they have been used
    in high profile material."
  created: '2013-03-04 19:00:22'
- author:
    name: Jan Middendorp
    picture: 110288
  body: "As Ralf notes, it was the foundries, not MyFonts, that developed the concept
    of extreme introductory discounts.  Probably the first full family sold at a breath-taking
    introductory price on MyFonts was HVD\u2019s Pluto in mid-2011; it has remained
    a seller at full price. But I wouldn\u2019t be surprised if Hannes was inspired
    by the high-profile introduction of Axel (a Spiekermann production) two years
    earlier by FontShop Germany at less than \u20AC/$ 20 for a four-weight family.
    \ \r\nWhile typohiles (including some of us at MyFonts) may have mixed feelings
    about the trend, it does have its positive aspects. Typically, non-pro and semi-pro
    customers have always bought single weights, even when volume discounts on larger
    (text) families were substantial. Thanks to the family-at-the-price-of-one-weight
    craze, average users have become familiar with the idea of buying an entire type
    family, which  to many always seems to have looked like a rather extravagant and
    unnecessary kind of purchase. So while some argue that low prices teach people
    a wrong thing (fonts can be cheap) it might also teach them something  good: fonts
    don\u2019t necessarily come one at a time."
  created: '2013-03-04 20:36:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jan, good points. One thing though: foundries might have figured out the
    trick themselves, but MyFonts probably created the environment that made it a
    good idea.\r\n\r\nBTW here's a cool experiment somebody should try: simultaneously
    release multiple essentially identical versions of the same typeface, giving each
    a different discounting strategy (and choosing neutral names so that doesn't throw
    off the results) then watch how they perform for a year.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-04 21:13:41'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>BTW here's a cool experiment</cite>\r\nThis has been done in cheese
    stores in France. I identical cheeses were sold under different brands and at
    different prices. People tended to prefer the more expensive 'brand', apparently
    assuming high price equals higher quality. I think I read about it in Ogilvy on
    Ogilvy."
  created: '2013-03-04 21:42:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "BTW!!! Here's a cool experiment someone in the font industry should try!
    Make frozen lasagna out of beef, horse, rat, road kill and sawdust, labeling and
    packaging each identically, but making the beef the cheapest, the sawdust the
    most expensive, etc., and see which one gets caught by the Food Police first!\r\n\r\nI'd
    bet on the rat or the road kill. "
  created: '2013-03-04 22:21:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That would only fly in the UK.  ;-)\r\n\r\nRussell, we might end up proving
    that fonts aren't cheese and Hemet isn't Paris...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-04 22:35:14'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: As an end-user of fonts who is not a graphic designer or typographer by trade,
    I must admit I am more likely to buy a font at a low introductory price of $20-$50
    than $200-300. It just doesn't make sense for my budget, given I have no means
    by which to charge out the price of fonts, to spend more than that for me. That's
    just speaking for me and my limited budget. This is why I openly admit to owning
    WordPerfect and CorelDraw as much for the font libraries which come with the software
    license as for the software itself.
  created: '2013-03-05 05:02:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: 'Some users are prepared to pay for quality. For many years Stella Artois
    used the slogan ''Reassuringly Expensive''. '
  created: '2013-03-05 07:35:05'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>fonts aren't cheese</cite>\r\nYou sure that's always true? \r\nRegardless,
    people are always people. No matter where we go... There we are. "
  created: '2013-03-05 13:25:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One of the best lines from \"The Adventures of Buckaroo Banzai Across the
    8th Dimension!\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-05 14:23:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I can see two sides: \r\n\r\n1. A desperate, last ditch attempt to sell a
    luxury item during times of economic collapse.\r\n\r\n\u2026or\u2026\r\n\r\n2.
    A natural evolution of an existing market which is still trying to figure itself
    out, post-internet (and all that other fancy computer stuff).\r\n\r\nLook at iTunes.
    Who would have thought selling a song for a dollar would have brought the record
    industry to it\u2019s knees? I\u2019m not a musician, but thanks to iTunes, I
    think its significantly easier to get your music out there. Friends of mine can
    do this today, who would not have been able to do so a decade ago. Regardless
    of talent or financial means."
  created: '2013-03-05 14:58:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW is it true that most massive discounts only happen upon launch, and then
    almost never again?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the record industry to it\u2019s knees?</blockquote>\r\n\r\n?\r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-21601602\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-05 16:33:28'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>1. A desperate, last ditch attempt to sell a luxury item during times
    of economic collapse.</cite>\r\n<cite>2. A natural evolution of an existing market
    which is still trying to figure itself out, post-internet (and all that other
    fancy computer stuff).</cite>\r\n\r\n3. The growth of a market into a new field.
    \r\nAs Jan already mentioned: MyFonts opened up a new market. If you look at MyFonts\u2019
    homepage you clearly see, that those offers are not meant for the same kind of
    people font licenses were sold 15 years ago. The design studios buying the 500\u20131000
    Dollar packages are still very important, but there is now a huge market of individuals
    who are willing to spent 20 to 50 bucks for a font. And with deep family discounts
    they might even purchase licenses for those. \r\nI don't see anything bad about
    it. Especially as long as those are only introductory offers. After the first
    45 days, a quality typeface will still be a quality typeface available for regular
    prices. "
  created: '2013-03-05 16:45:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ralf, don't you think there might be an image problem? Do you think foundries
    that don't do heavy discounting are making a mistake?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-05 16:48:43'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: And many designers feel pressure to keep costs down. If you're a big agency
    with big clients, the cost of fonts might be a drop in the bucket, but for freelancers
    and small agencies working on lower budget projects, adding $500 (or whatever)
    to your invoice for new fonts can be a bigger deal.
  created: '2013-03-05 17:15:10'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "hrant, iTunes brought the industry \"to it's knees\" in the sense that iTunes
    was a major interrupter of the traditional distribution and retail model...and
    in that sense, was somewhat of a 'great equalizer' in that everyone had an equal
    opportunity for 'shelf space'. \r\n\r\nI don't think MyFonts is quite as extreme,
    but for a large part of this industry, it appears to be mimic that."
  created: '2013-03-05 17:23:44'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Ralf, don't you think there might be an image problem? </cite>\r\n\r\nSo
    far I don\u2019t see any negative effects for the foundries who do it. \r\n\r\n<cite>Do
    you think foundries that don't do heavy discounting are making a mistake? </cite>\r\n\r\nNo.
    Every foundry needs to find its market and the appropriate strategies. We can't
    go all for the same people who only go for these sale prices. If we do that, it
    would stop working. In the same way as we shouln\u2019t do it all like Exljbris
    or TEFF is doing it. "
  created: '2013-03-05 17:25:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: If I were licensing retail fonts through a major distributor like MyFonts,
    I would be inclined to try a kind of Reverse Dutch Auction release pricing. A
    Dutch auction involves a gradually reducing price for a limited commodity (classically,
    flowers). A reverse Dutch auction seems to me a good model for an unlimited, digital
    product, for which the price gradually increases over time. So begin with a massively
    deep discount for, say, a week, and then start incrementally increasing it up
    to the full retail price. The latter could either be a fixed amount comparable
    to other fonts, or simply at whatever level the particular font continues to sell
    an average of X licenses per week. Just an idea. I've no idea how well it would
    work in practice, so don't blame me if you try it and end up unhappy with the
    results. If you do try it, please let us know how it goes.
  created: '2013-03-05 17:48:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK Ralf (and of course anybody else) let me ask it this way: What's a good
    reason a foundry would not offer steep discounts?\r\n\r\nJohn: Do you think that
    would work better as an official/predictable/explicit pattern, or would it better
    to keep people guessing?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-05 17:52:06'
- author:
    name: 1996type
    picture: 114827
  body: "Here's why people, including me, fear these huge discounts: they might create
    a market where nothing but extremely cheap or discounted fonts sell well. This
    market obviously isn't there yet, but the fear for it is. \r\n\r\nHere's a thought
    I had recently. Let's say this movement continues, and 'normally' priced fonts
    don't sell well anymore, somewhere in the future. Could we not simply conclude
    that due to the large amount of quality fonts, foundries have to compete more,
    and the market equilibrium has shifted? End of the golden days for font designers?
    Perhaps it's been a bubble that's about to burst."
  created: '2013-03-05 18:33:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Oh I think it should be a well-advertised pricing structure. Although the
    calculations differ, the idea is the same as for a regular Dutch auction, to enable
    the buyer to make reasoned decisions within a predictable structure. Because Dutch
    auctions apply to limited commodities, there is an element of gamble involved
    in waiting for a lower price (someone else might be willing to pay more, and you'll
    be left with nothing). In my reverse model, with rising price, there is no gamble
    but there is pressure to buy early, increasing upfront revenue, but without the
    simple jump from deeply discounted to full price. I see it also as a useful tool
    for designers dealing with clients: \"This is the font we want to use for your
    job, but the longer you delay decisions/budget/PO the more it is going to cost.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    other benefit I see in the model is that it provides a trackable progress of sales
    relative to price -- adjusting for other factors --, which is something sellers
    generally lack. The process by which the 'market' determines price is generally
    pretty much guesswork: a seller looks at similar products, and guesses how much
    he might be able to charge. He typically has no data to tell him whether he might,
    in fact, make more money selling at a slightly lower price or if he might sell
    the same volume at a slightly higher price. By gradually increasing the price
    over time, one can collect information on buying behaviour relative to price."
  created: '2013-03-05 18:37:56'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>End of the golden days for font designers? Perhaps it's been a bubble
    that's about to burst.</cite>\r\n\r\nQuite the contrary! The prices fall because
    of the higher demand! There is no definition of \xBBnormal\xAB font prices. It's
    just what we are used to. A photolettering disc did cost 20 times what a font
    costs today and it only had around 200 characters and could not be used indefinitely,
    let alone be copied to 5 machines. \r\nThere is nothing wrong with falling prices
    when the number of sales rises, especially with digital goods. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-05 19:05:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026fear these huge discounts: they might create a market where nothing
    but extremely cheap or discounted fonts sell well. </em>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s not
    the way the Long Tail works, and MyFonts is very much a Long Tail marketer in
    a Long Tail product category.\r\n\r\nFor instance, Shinntype rarely has fonts
    in the MyFonts top 50 and doesn\u2019t offer huge introductory discounts or free
    anything, but this distributor provides us with a steady income from incremental
    sales of many typefaces, some of which (Beaufort and Handsome) have been there
    since MyFonts started over 12 years ago.\r\n\r\nFonts differ from most (consumer)
    products in that they are not fundamentally subject to rapid obsolesence or the
    immediate hard sell of a special offer. When someone is looking for a font for
    a particular project, especially when doing a keyword search, they will consider
    a variety of typefaces, not just what\u2019s hot at the moment. They might remember
    something that caught their fancy several years ago, but which they haven\u2019t
    yet had the opportunity to use.\r\n\r\nTypefaces can become fashion items, but
    they are also extremely durable, both stylistically and technologically.\r\n\r\nUltimately,
    if one applies the Long Tail or Zipf distribution to itself, it becomes apparent
    that while one end of the curve is subject to fashion, price, and popularity,
    a large part of the market does not follow these principles.\r\n\r\nFor instance,
    the Scotch Modern is not presently considered a good text type, and the Shinntype
    version is very expensive, has never been discounted, and has never made a best-seller
    list. Yet once in a while someone somewhere decides they gotta have it. Niche."
  created: '2013-03-05 19:26:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ralf, what's a good reason a foundry would not offer steep discounts?\r\n\r\nJohn:\r\n1)
    What about introducing a gamble element by limiting the discounted pricing not
    by time, but by number sold? I think Tankard does this, or at least a hybrid mixing
    time and number.\r\n2) Do you think some potential buyers would be turned off
    by a pricing model they might feel is contrived?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-05 19:31:27'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: "If I may jump in one more time, I think the reality is that because certain
    fonts are ubiquitous, and it is only a subset of users who are even interested
    enough to care, the niche for fonts is just that, a niche; if it works better
    for designer \"A\" to build extremely high-quality fonts with full character sets
    and s/he is able to sell that work at a price which is fair to their efforts,
    great. On the other end, if designer \"B\" is just messing around and wants to
    sell some of their hobbyist labours for $5-20 a shot, and they sell a few, great.
    I know my co-worker at the small office where I work is pretty oblivious to fonts,
    whereas to me, they mean and signify a great deal.\r\n\r\nSo maybe it's like the
    book market; mass-market low quality Harlequins sell because they fill a niche,
    and high end literary books sell because they fill a niche. The Harlequin will
    generally make a greater profit, but there is no question which is the better
    quality book."
  created: '2013-03-05 19:51:32'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "When I started noticing these 90% discounts I thought, \"This is an industry
    on its knees.\" As a consumer it made me feel very uncertain about my vendors
    (ie: people I buy fonts from). 90% discounts indicates an uncertainty about product
    value, as well as a great deal of semantic ambiguity when we try to define price
    and value to our end clients using product terminology that applies to physical
    objects, even as an analogy (any discussion about piracy, EULA, licensing fees
    tends to wander into this word-territory).\r\n\r\nWhen I go and spend 600 euro
    on a font I will email the designer and ask if they respect their product enough
    to not go and have a fire sale next week. And if there is a fire sale, I want
    a refund on the difference. Granted, this discussion mostly pertains to new releases.\r\n\r\nI
    like John Hudson's idea. It's rational and it provides motivation for buying.
    And that's the key: it's rational. The massive discount model (a discount ending
    when? and why?) has no explicit rational foundation -- by which I mean the buyer
    or end-user can't determine the reason. Sure, I'm seeing the reason in this thread,
    but not at the point of purchase.\r\n\r\nAnd the real end user, the final client,
    what do I say to them? \"Well, this font's not as good but it costs 99 cents at
    a 95% discount.\" Most people have never heard of discounts like that except on
    flawed or blemished goods; goods that don't work properly; children's toys made
    of lead at a night market.\r\n\r\nUltimately, I want beautiful work-horse typefaces
    that I have to pay a fair bit of money for and not everyone can afford. Snobbery?
    Yes: an arbitrary taste-making distinction. Fortunately, I'm well served by dealing
    directly with the foundry.\r\n\r\nAll of this leads me to think the 90% discounts
    harm the myfonts brand more than anything else. Mostly because their top-seller
    charts are unreliable indicators.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-05 19:54:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Side question: Out of curiosity, how many people here follow the stock value
    of Monotype Imaging Holdings Inc? \r\n\r\n(go to http://ca.finance.yahoo.com \u2014
    their symbol is TYPE)"
  created: '2013-03-05 20:05:06'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "Wow, 2012 was a good year:\r\nhttp://finance.yahoo.com/news/monotype-announces-fourth-quarter-full-120700510.html"
  created: '2013-03-05 20:31:02'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>Side question: Out of curiosity, how many people here follow
    the stock value of Monotype Imaging Holdings Inc? </blockquote>\r\n\r\nI do.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-05 20:43:15'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "And they\u2019re giving it away for free, post merger announcement. \r\n\r\n\u201C<em>May
    you live in interesting times</em>.\u201D\r\n~Ancient Chinese curse"
  created: '2013-03-05 20:55:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What are they giving away for free?\r\n\r\nBTW, what big thing went right
    for Monotype towards the end of last year?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-05 21:07:29'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@hrant: http://www.linotype.com/6987/linotypewirdmonotype.html'
  created: '2013-03-05 21:25:59'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>When I go and spend 600 euro on a  \u2026 And if there is a fire sale,
    I want a refund on the difference. </cite>\r\n\r\nTry that idea on the stock market.
    ;-)\r\nWhen you buy something, you and the seller have agreed on the \u201Cworth\u201D
    of that product at that time. That's it. The deal is closed. If the font is cheaper
    tomorrow, how does it affect you? It's the same font. Nothing has changed. You
    have willingly agreed that the font was 600 Euros worth to you and you got it
    for that price. There is nothing that you can or should do. \r\n\r\n<cite>Mostly
    because their top-seller charts are unreliable indicators.</cite>\r\n\r\nIndicators
    for what? Certainly not for quality, because that doesn\u2019t work in any branch. "
  created: '2013-03-05 21:28:42'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "Ralf -- see, again I will have to fall back to physical objects. Many retailers
    guarantee your paid price, and will refund the difference if the price drops or
    if you find it cheaper elsewhere. That's after the purchase and for a limited
    period of time. I recently had this conversation with a foundry. It's a strange
    conversation to have. Fortunately, they did not share your opinion. Because we
    are two human beings.\r\n\r\nThe stock market is something else entirely where
    the assumption of risk is understood. \r\n\r\nMaybe I'm a dreamer but I still
    believe trust is an essential aspect of a commercial transaction. Trust is the
    underwriter. If we didn't have trust (and humanity) as part of the transaction,
    then I would just steal fonts.\r\n\r\n*unreliable indicators\r\nI was thinking
    of it as an indicator of the quality of a font. Not the quality of the typeface.
    Of the font itself, which is measurable. I'm probably delusional on this one."
  created: '2013-03-05 22:02:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>There is nothing that you can or should do.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIf
    you think a seller has acted inappropriately, you most certainly should do something.
    Also, this black-and-white view clearly does not correspond to reality, especially
    not in the US: people get sellers to give them money back without \"having to\"
    all the time. When Apple dropped the price of the iPod (or maybe it was the iPhone)
    by a big amount a few years ago, people complained and Apple gave recent buyers
    a $100 voucher. So go ahead and complain away! No human needs to be forgiving
    towards a corporation, only other humans.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-05 22:16:07'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "John,\r\nI like the reverse Dutch auction idea, especially if governed by
    units sold rather than time. At present, this style of discounting is not possible
    at MyFonts, where you can put your fonts on sale for a set period of time, and
    must wait another set period of time between sales. I think (I considered it!)
    it might be possible to do by issuing voucher codes, but then you have the situation
    where you have to find a way of publicising those codes. I guess foundries with
    enough following could do this pre-release on Twitter, but then these foundries
    probably don't need the discounts to shift fonts."
  created: '2013-03-06 02:08:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Todd, very well expressed.\r\n\r\nRalf, the reality is that many customers
    simply don't think the way you describe. If the price drops a great deal on something
    bought the day before, many people don't just feel unlucky, they feel betrayed.
    And quite often that feeling is entirely rational because companies don't decide
    to lower a price 5 minutes before, they've already decided at the time you bought
    it for the higher price. And when people feel betrayed by a company, the company
    pays for it - either by having to give back money or credit, or by losing a future
    customer (often due to word-of-mouth).\r\n\r\nIn many US department stores when
    you're about to buy something at full price, they will actually tell you to wait
    until the next day when the item will be discounted! Are they stupid to do that?
    I think they're very clever. And try using an expired coupon at almost any fast-food
    place: does it work? Yes. Think about why that's the case.\r\n\r\nRetail businesses
    don't get rich by being fascist about rules.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 07:28:32'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: The difference between clothes and fonts is that clothes aren't launched at
    massive discounts to boost sales, they're reduced in price *after* new, more fashionable
    clothes are released. Do any font retailers put the prices of their old fonts
    down when they release a new one? I once tried an offer whereby a purchaser of
    a new font could choose another from my library for free, thinking this would
    add to the desirability of the new font without hindering any possible performance
    in the sales ranking. I think it kind of worked - something to consider as another
    possible marketing strategy...
  created: '2013-03-06 07:46:37'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "It's fairly common for larger stores to refund the difference (if requested)
    if an item you bought goes on sale within 30 days. \r\n\r\nWhen I was in college
    I worked part-time in a department store and I can assure you that some customers
    get very bent out of shape if an expensive item goes on sale a few days after
    they purchased it. Typically they assume the salesman knew about the upcoming
    sale, which isn't always true. "
  created: '2013-03-06 07:54:24'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>If the price drops a great deal on something bought the day before,
    many people don't just feel unlucky, they feel betrayed. </cite>\r\n\r\nFunny,
    that this only works one way, isn't it? No one who gets a sale price ever complains
    about having paid too little. "
  created: '2013-03-06 10:25:40'
- author:
    name: Anthony Noel
  body: "Has anyone actually seen one of these massive discounts applied to a family
    at any time other than during its introduction? \r\n\r\nThis discussion about
    someone having paid full price for a font family, only to see it become available
    for a fraction of the price they paid a day or so later seems pretty hypothetical."
  created: '2013-03-06 13:05:25'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: 'Linotype has started doing it. Last month you could get several full families
    (like Syntax Next) with over $700,- discount. '
  created: '2013-03-06 13:36:38'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I do think that people will be reluctant to buy X at ten times the price
    X was available at last week.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, with fonts, the only reason
    someone has to have X, instead of Y or Z, is because it's what everyone else is
    using, it's what is fashionable. Popular, recognized typefaces get specified by
    name.\r\n\r\nSo low prices work, in that they remain profitable if the ultimate
    sales volume is high enough. And high prices don't make sense for the thousands
    of me-too fonts.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that it's <em>very</em> hard to be a financial
    success from designing new typefaces."
  created: '2013-03-06 14:11:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>No one who gets a sale price ever complains about having paid
    too little.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYup. That's the difference between a human and
    a company.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 14:45:27'
- author:
    name: Anthony Noel
  body: "<blockquote>Linotype has started doing it. Last month you could get several
    full families (like Syntax Next) with over $700,- discount.</blockquote>\r\nThe
    Linotype sales are rather interesting examples \u2013 limited to just a few hundred
    units sold and for only a day or so (whichever comes first).\r\n\r\nIn terms of
    techniques to cut through the avalanche of very similar products and promotions,
    it could be very effective. \r\n\r\nIt might not make the most of the extra exposure
    new fonts are automatically granted on MyFonts, but doing some moderate discounting
    later on in the life cycle of a font might be an alternative option.\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2013-03-06 15:58:16'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Many retailers guarantee your paid price, and will refund the difference
    if the price drops or if you find it cheaper elsewhere.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's something
    very different. If you would want to make that comparison, it would mean that
    a web shop like MyFonts would offer you a refund if you find the same font on
    FontShop.com. MyFonts would be willing to give up a little bit of their(!) profit
    in order to have you buy it on their website. The maker of that product (in this
    case the foundry) isn't even involved in this deal.\r\nSo those retailers fighting
    over the cheapest offer is something very different from makers of products setting
    up their prices (including sale offers). \r\n\r\nAnd if you want to compare it
    with physical goods: Every season there are new clothes, and when the next season
    starts, there will be heavy discounts for the same products. Do you expect refunds
    when you paid the full price? It's the very same good offered for very different
    prices. The only thing that has changed is the time of the purchase. \r\n\r\n<cite>The
    stock market is something else entirely where the assumption of risk is understood.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy
    point was: the two sides agree about worth and price. Why should a buying option
    for other (future) customers make a difference? If I decide to double the price
    of my font tomorrow, because it sells like hot cake, can I then come to you as
    someone who bought it yesterday, and ask for 100% more? I guess not!\r\nYou will
    say: a deal is a deal. If you don't want pay that additional price, then you also
    shouln\u2019t ask for a refund, should the prices drop for a temporary sale offer.
    \r\n\r\n<cite>Maybe I'm a dreamer but I still believe trust is an essential aspect
    of a commercial transaction. </cite>\r\n\r\nCertainly! Now that there are over
    100.000 fonts available and the font makers can\u2019t control the prices thru
    proprietary typesetting machines anymore, the human connection between buyer and
    sellers becomes very important. Maybe not if you buy at fonts.com, but certainly
    for all the independent foundries. \r\nBut this trust doesn\u2019t mean that I
    will keep my prices unchanged forever, so existing customers can still \u201Cfeel
    good\u201D about their purchases. You got the product you wanted and you got it
    for a price you considered acceptable at the time of the purchase. There is nothing
    to feel bad about, should the prices change (in one direction or the other). "
  created: '2013-03-06 16:00:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"This discussion about someone having paid full price for a font family,
    only to see it become available for a fraction of the price they paid a day or
    so later seems pretty hypothetical\"\r\n\r\nReally? We find our fonts available
    for free all the time, so paying customers could do the same thing every day or
    so later. That's usually 100% off, which isn't very fractional, but still, it's
    hardy hypothetical either."
  created: '2013-03-06 16:17:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This just in:\r\nhttp://www.fonts.com/font/itc/itc-serif-gothic/complete-family-pack?utm_source=Fonts.com+Newsletter&utm_campaign=3d7e64c0f0-FlashSale-ITCSerifGothic-Mar2013&utm_medium=email\r\nThat's
    74% off, on a pretty old family. Happens all the time these days.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 16:53:48'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "$500 \xD7 10 sales = $5000\r\n$50 \xD7 200 sales = $10000\r\nAs easy as that...
    I guess..."
  created: '2013-03-06 17:10:16'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "Could it be that the excessive discount raids sum up to blast backwards at
    the end of the day?\r\nThe MyFonts current listing of \u201Cspecial offers\u201D
    (WHAT is special??) counts several hundreds of fonts. Being buried in yet another
    huge mass of offerings, is this really the means to get noticed?\r\nI did a modest
    christmas offering last year, on the Dec. sales report I noticed no effect at
    all.\r\n\r\nI just find myself thinking about a possible reverse strategy \u2026\r\n\r\n***
    SALE <strong>109% !!!!</strong>***\r\n(value for money \u2013 guaranteed ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 18:36:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I can actually imaging paying a big-name studio to get them to use a font
    in a high-profile way... After all, the stuff that TV game shows give away, they
    get <em>paid</em> to do that!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 18:51:50'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "A very interesting discussion! I have bought several families for big discounts.
    It suits me fine because as a freelance designer it allows me to expand my toolbox
    at a low cost. That said: there is a lot of stuff on offer that even at 90% off
    don't convince me. \r\n\r\nThe market is quite saturated with certain types of
    fonts, like big sans-serif families, and I have seen several big sans families
    up on 90% sale. I guess it is the cheapest way to get noticed, without any other
    marketing money spent. But I also think the effect of these deep discounts will
    diminish when there are so many of them, and quality and distinction will win
    in the end. How many neutral sans families does one really need in the end? Add
    to that that many of these families released seem to be made on auto-pilot: automized
    kerning and spacing, automatically generated weights and character sets... "
  created: '2013-03-06 19:48:47'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> *** SALE 109% !!!!***\r\n\r\nOnce I was in a book store that just carried
    used books and publisher overstock. They had a HUGE pile of old almanacs (hundreds
    of them) and a sign said \"We will pay you 5 cents for each almanac you take.
    This is not a joke. If you have a van, take them all and we'll pay you 5 cents
    for each one.\"\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 21:09:53'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "I\u2019m convinced.\r\nLet the madness end.\r\n\r\nIf they are at all rational
    to in the first place, regular prices, or those who pay them, are subsidizing
    the \"deep discounts\".  If a lower price equals more sales, then just lower the
    price. The deep discount theory is just a spiraling race to be bottom.\r\n\r\nBefore
    long customers feel like chumps for paying \"retail\u201D and then what do you
    do? Resort to some kind of phony pricing scheme where everything is always on
    sale? \u2013 \u201CCrazy Joe\u2019s Discount Fonts! $AVE $AVE! $AVE!\u201D"
  created: '2013-03-09 03:08:55'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: ..
  created: '2013-03-09 04:36:41'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>If a lower price equals more sales, then just lower the price. </cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    doesn't work of course. The sale works because it is temporary. You get something
    that is usually \u201Cworth\u201D more for less money than usual and you need
    to decide fast. \r\nIf the price is always low, it\u2019s just a cheap (and therefore
    probably low quality) font. No one will share this offer, it won't make the bestseller
    list and you can postpone your purchase decision indefinitely \u2014 which means
    you will probably forget it after a while. \r\n\r\n<cite>Let the madness end.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    simple rules of supply and demand. If people think those offers are bad, then
    don\u2019t buy those fonts. As long as those offers are a good deal for the customer
    and the foundry, they will not stop. And why should they if both sides are happy?"
  created: '2013-03-09 08:17:19'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Discounts work on different levels: \r\nIf I already want a specific font
    or family, a 10-30% discount will be enough to convince me to buy now. \r\nAt
    50% I might consider a font that appeals to me, but I would not consider buying
    at the full price. But it still is a decision, because it still amounts to something
    like 100$ or more in most cases. \r\nWith 80-99% I would buy something I would
    not otherwise buy (if they are not obviously poor quality, that is), as the investment
    cost is very low, and who knows?, it might be useful in the future."
  created: '2013-03-09 13:04:38'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>If a lower price equals more sales, then just lower the price. </cite>\r\nWell,
    what I was saying is that a) how arbitrary or otherwise are font prices anyhow?,
    \ b) if you aren't selling enough fonts at $50.00 maybe your price should be $40.00.
    Permanently. It was pointed out that <cite> $500 \xD7 10 sales = $5000, $50 \xD7
    200 sales = $10000</cite> \r\n\r\nI agree with sales. \"Deep Discounts\" are a
    different thing. "
  created: '2013-03-10 15:31:41'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>If a lower price equals more sales, then just lower the price. </cite>\r\nWell,
    what I was saying is that a) how arbitrary or otherwise are font prices anyhow?,
    \ b) if you aren't selling enough fonts at $50.00 maybe your price should be $40.00.
    Permanently. It was pointed out that <cite> $500 \xD7 10 sales = $5000, $50 \xD7
    200 sales = $10000</cite> \r\n\r\nI agree with sales. \"Deep Discounts\" are a
    different thing. "
  created: '2013-03-10 15:31:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I think the concept of 'introductory price' makes sense in the context of
    fonts, which are products that tend to make a decent return only over a fairly
    long period of time. An initial discounted price kickstarts that process. How
    deep that discount should be is another question, but since this is a form of
    advertising, there is likely to be pressure for lower and lower introductory prices
    as more foundries do it.
  created: '2013-03-10 21:45:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I started licensing fonts to early desktop  font users replacing a $5000-$12000
    per issue phototypesetting fee, with a one-time purchase price of 5-7k per latin1
    glyph set (kerned).\r\n\r\nAs more non-exclusive fonts were made available at
    $40 or so per style for retail licensing, a pretty steep discount still  existed.
    Meanwhile, some of those early customers have achieved 6,000,000% savings on type
    costs. \r\n\r\nWhy would someone pay $11.99 for a font they don't want if they
    can get 1000s of fonts they don't want to,  for free, I forget."
  created: '2013-03-11 00:58:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Because some people feel bad pirating fonts, but they feel good saving money
    legitimately?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-11 01:05:10'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: exactly, hrant!
  created: '2013-03-11 09:10:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Not about pirating. Wish you were hear.
  created: '2013-03-11 10:45:56'
- author:
    name: Alter Littera
    picture: 124030
  body: It is my firmly established impression that massive discounts (in fact, one
    or two free fonts) are nearly imperative for small new foundries to get noticed,
    irrespective of the quality of the products being offered. On December 31st, 2012,
    I put on MyFonts the free [[http://typophile.com/node/99109|Gutenberg A]] (a fine
    font, I think). It has been downloaded since then over one thousand times. My
    other pay fonts sales figures have remained essentially unchanged, but over one
    thousand people know now something, and have their opinion, about Alter Littera
    (in spite of these opinions not having been, for the most part, publicly expressed
    ...).
  created: '2013-03-11 12:21:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David: Please explain, especially since I'm not the only one who misunderstood.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>massive
    discounts (in fact, one or two free fonts) are nearly imperative for small new
    foundries to get noticed</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat about old foundries, of any
    size? (Because some of those do it too.)\r\n\r\nAlso, there's a fundamental difference
    between Free and Very Affordable.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>My other pay fonts sales
    figures have remained essentially unchanged</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but
    this makes \"over one thousand people know now something\" seem moot.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-11 13:39:42'
- author:
    name: Alter Littera
    picture: 124030
  body: "<blockquote>I'm sorry, but this makes \"over one thousand people know now
    something\" seem moot.</blockquote>\r\nDon't be sorry: it is definitely moot indeed,
    unless you are so naive as to expect starting a new foundry off and becoming the
    king of the hill at the same time. The same (over)dose of patience employed to
    carefully craft a new font should be exercised while waiting for recognition and
    decent sales figures (if they ever happen to arrive). But when \"over one thousand
    people\" know something about your work and, more importantly, have the chance
    to put their hands on it, I like to think that at least a few of them will keep
    track of you and, eventually, will contribute to your success. This is the fundamental
    role that, in my opinion, free fonts should play."
  created: '2013-03-11 15:47:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That is indeed one good thing free fonts do. An even better trick is giving
    away one weight of a family so you get people hooked and they end up buying the
    rest, or making the font free only for personal use but requiring a purchase for
    commercial use*. Like a pusher giving a free sample.  :-)\r\n\r\n* It's amazing
    BTW how much of the plagiarized junk on Dafont pulls this off.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-11 16:10:04'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Speaking as a consumer of commercial fonts, I tend to buy them \r\n\r\na)
    when I need them \r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\nb) when the price is right\r\n\r\nFor scenario
    'a', price isn't much of an issue. If the project requires Font X for whatever
    reason, whether it's $20 or $200 is usually not a major concern in the grand scheme
    of things.\r\n\r\nFor scenario 'b', price is the primary issue, as I have no specific
    need for it at the time, so it's mainly an impulse buy.\r\n\r\nAs a consumer,
    in general, low prices certainly influence my impulses to buy something. "
  created: '2013-03-11 17:18:11'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "@Alter Littera\r\nSorry to burst your bubble but I think it's very unlikely
    the vast majority of those free(down)loaders know anything about you or your foundry.
    Check the orders - see how many 'customers' have downloaded your free fonts more
    than once. If yours are anything like mine, you'll find a LOT have done so, which
    should prove to you that free downloads (of single fonts at any rate - I don't
    know about free members of families) add up to pretty much nothing in terms of
    brand awareness. People are just downloading everything that comes up in the 'free'
    search results. They will probably hardly look at them, let alone use them in
    any way which might get you some recognition / free advertising. For all my bugbears
    about big introductory (and midlife) discounts, at least those customers are paying
    something, which does make them far more likely to use the fonts in a way which
    might lead to some exposure."
  created: '2013-03-12 02:16:49'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "At this point in this discussion about font pricing, it seems to be necessary
    to remind everyone about the most basic facts.\r\n\r\nThere are two basic groups
    of customers (or, at least, users) for fonts.\r\n\r\nThere are serious users,
    i.e. magazine art departments. Paying $200 for an appropriate font is totally
    routine for them.\r\n\r\nAnd then there are people looking for a font to print
    an internal company announcement, a church bulletin, or for personal use.\r\n\r\nGetting
    someone in Group #2, though, to pay even $20 for a font is difficult. It involves
    getting a petty cash signature, or using a credit card online (scary!). So of
    course people in that category will search out legitimate free fonts, poor quality
    2,000-font CD collections, or the Bitstream collections on Corel products first...
    or just use what came with Windows.\r\n\r\nThat they will refrain from pirating
    your fonts is about all you can hope for; that they will send money your way is
    almost a forlorn hope.\r\n\r\nThere's no end-run around that brutal reality that
    I can suggest; and, thus, lowered prices are more likely to cut into revenue from
    your real market than generate new customers from this second group.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not just some obscure mental barrier against valuing typography that's at work
    here; instead, more concrete factors - logistical barriers against payment and
    a lack of perceived need for most specific fonts - are in operation. And a discount,
    even to a ridiculously low price (i.e., $5 or even $1) won't address the real
    problem.\r\n\r\nI suppose if a bunch of independent type designers got together,
    and made a disk of \"1000 contemporary quality fonts\" that got physically sold
    on store shelves, they might then be able to share (some fraction of) one cent
    per font per sale - but even that wouldn't work in real life (difficult distribution
    channel to access; unlike the Bitstream collection, customers reached would react
    with 'what good are all these weird fonts'...).\r\n\r\nSo I think that typeface
    designers risk losing a lot of money in chasing a mythical El Dorado in looking
    for a broader market for fonts that simply can't be coaxed into existence. If
    you can create the next Times Roman or Papyrus, and then license it to Microsoft,
    great, but not everyone can <em>do</em> that.\r\n\r\nIn your pricing, then, look
    to your serious customers, not to vain hopes."
  children:
  - author:
      name: aluminum
      picture: 110335
    body: "\"and, thus, lowered prices are more likely to cut into revenue from your
      real market than generate new customers from this second group\"\r\n\r\nThat
      is only true if you believe lowering prices won't have an affect on volume sold.
      \r\n\r\nRandom thought: would the 'humble bundle' model of selling certain typefaces
      at a discount provide useful for spreading awareness of said foundries?"
    created: '2013-03-12 16:58:31'
  created: '2013-03-12 11:29:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "HP: \"David: Please explain, especially since I'm not the only one who misunderstood.\"\r\n\r\nMisunderstood?
    What? That there are 1000s of free fonts available, so a user does not have to
    choose between piracy and low prices? Or you don't understand the retail market
    because, like most of the others in this conversation you ain't in it? Or, something
    else?"
  created: '2013-03-12 11:31:04'
- author:
    name: Alter Littera
    picture: 124030
  body: "@daverowland\r\nI take your point. However, I think that a ratio of 0.98
    (991/1013) between customers and orders provides a reasonable chance of getting
    noticed. The problem with most free fonts, as well as with many heavily discounted
    ones, is that they are pure rubbish, but this does not mean that every one of
    them should be regarded as such.\r\nAlso, reading many of the posts in this topic,
    could make anyone feel tempted to think that trying to sell new, decent-quality
    fonts is a hopeless effort irrespective of how they are promoted (unless, of course,
    you dive into the current sans/script trendy tide, which, personally, I absolutely
    dislike). Nonetheless, I prefer to keep alive the (possibly vain) hope that offering
    free quality fonts will turn potential customers into actual buyers of your pay
    fonts, at least in a small percentage. Time will tell ..."
  created: '2013-03-12 12:44:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, thanks for explaining. I guess two answers -in fact in any case- are:
    because they think the font is special in some way; they like to spend money.
    People buy all kinds of junk they don't really need as long as it's cheap enough,
    and sometimes as long as it's expensive enough! You and I might not be such peons,
    but very many people are.\r\n\r\nBTW, my own involvement in the retail market
    is indeed pretty modest, but it does go back to the early 90s, and does involve
    a recent font that was discounted by 75% for the first two weeks (from which I
    learned a bit).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-12 13:36:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Related:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/10206\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-12 17:06:20'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "@quadibloc,\r\n\r\nare you serious? A big chunk of font buyers are freelance
    designers or smaller agencies. Of course they have to watch their budget, so promotions
    and discounts help. Trying to heap them in the category of amateurs not willing
    to pay 20 bucks for a font is childish and not helpful."
  created: '2013-03-12 17:33:29'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: No, I don't lump freelance designers or smaller agencies in with the amateurs;
    in fact, I mistakenly lumped them together with the large ones. So I have missed
    out on an important segment of the market many of the type designers here have
    - probably, in fact, the most important segment.
  created: '2013-03-12 18:28:46'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "As a freelance graphic designer I learnt very early on to charge the client
    for expenses ... that includes fonts and if I'm lucky a whole face of type. So,
    it's nice to see discounts but client is paying anyways ...no big deal either
    way.\r\n\r\nAs for the matter of slashing 90% off the worth of your work ...I
    guess type designer make up the difference in volume. Another way to recoup the
    loss (if there is one) is when the work gets up all over the place?\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-12 19:04:05'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Of course [smaller agencies] have to watch their budget\r\n\r\nI fall into
    that category sometimes. Some of my clients are big and for them spending a few
    hundred on fonts is no big deal, but I've also got small clients with tiny budgets,
    and freebie projects for non-profits and friends. Just a few weeks ago I did a
    project for free and bought a font that was on sale."
  created: '2013-03-12 20:24:35'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I wonder if making the fonts available at a very low price (deep discount)
    and thus giving designers an incentive to use your fonts helps the sales of the
    fonts in the future, without discounts? What I mean is, does it help the sales
    of type designers if their fonts are used by designers, and if so \u2014 how do
    you notice it? At least on MyFonts I hardly ever see examples of fonts in actual
    use, nor do I see it in the specimen. A site like Fonts in Use helps, but I wonder
    if there are other ways to exploit this?"
  created: '2013-03-12 21:48:53'
- author:
    name: daverowland
    picture: 117354
  body: "<blockquote>I wonder if making the fonts available at a very low price (deep
    discount) and thus giving designers an incentive to use your fonts helps the sales
    of the fonts in the future, without discounts?</blockquote>\r\nI think if the
    font is good, yes, the introductory discounts lead to wider usage which will probably
    lead to more exposure over time and keep the font selling at full price. If the
    font is not so good, I think the initial sales will be a flash in the pan and
    sales will quickly dry up to what they would have been anyway (ie. not many).
    A look on the MyFonts best sellers list turns up many fonts which were initially
    discounted, and have stuck around, but these are for the most part the better
    ones. The one 'not so great' font that I had in mind is currently plummeting down
    the best seller list as, I'm guessing, at full price, nobody's interested.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder how many of the people buying previously discounted fonts at full price
    know that they were on offer. If I were a font buyer, I can imagine if I knew
    a font had been discounted by around 30%, I might think, \"oh well, missed that
    sale. Nevermind, I'll buy it anyway,\" but if it had been heavily discounted,
    I might feel a little vexed, not purchase it at the vastly inflated price, and
    probably wait for it to come on sale again.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>What I mean is,
    does it help the sales of type designers if their fonts are used by designers,
    and if so \u2014 how do you notice it?</blockquote>\r\nI guess 'What The Font'
    helps. I wonder how many hits they get of people wanting to find out which font
    Dell use, and how many of these go on to purchase Museo."
  created: '2013-03-13 02:31:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "They call it a \"Flash Sale\": 75% off for 24 (I'm guessing) hours or 250
    units, whichever comes first. \r\nhttp://www.fonts.com/font/monotype/amasis/2-volume?utm_source=Fonts.com+Newsletter&utm_campaign=d0e99ae631-NL_Mar_2013&utm_medium=email\r\nBTW,
    the biggest font house, 20+ year old font. Anybody who thinks massive discounts
    are only used by desperate newborn foundries is totally not paying attention.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-13 16:10:16'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Thanks Dave, great response, very interesting!\r\n\r\nFonts are a bit like
    fashion, it seems, so things that were the thing 10-20-30-40 years ago might well
    be the thing now again. It makes sense to me though, as families like Amasis might
    suit the market for slabs, that seems to be booming, and by discounting it, it
    is brought under the attention of many again. \r\n\r\nI wonder if there might
    not be a useful market mechanism in this? Perhaps fonts can be expansive when
    they are new, and exclusive, then get cheaper over time? In a quite saturated
    market this might be a way to keep demand up. If fonts are unsuccesful at first
    the price will go down as well, which might eventually lead to a price that may
    be right for certain customers? Of course the very successful fonts will not need
    such a thing and keep the initial high price.\r\n\r\nI doubt an inverted mechanism,
    where fonts are cheap first, then get more expensive, would work very well, as
    the font loses its newness and thereby its fashion appeal (if you may).\r\n\r\nThe
    most logical solution for me would be to offer modest discounts, up to a maximum
    of 50%, but more like 30% at the introduction. If the font does not pick up after
    a certain period of time, a flash sale or a short period deep discount might jump
    the demand. If this does not work, well...\r\n\r\nAnother thing that interests
    me is if certain font buyers are encouraged by a higher price than the standard
    font, say 60-100$ or more per font? It seems to be the tactic of some designers/foundries,
    and I wonder if this works to their advantage? "
  created: '2013-03-13 19:13:47'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "Great discussion. I can even agree with the people I don't agree with! I
    only have a moment here:\r\n\r\nSomeone asked:\r\n\"What I mean is, does it help
    the sales of type designers if their fonts are used by designers, and if so \u2014
    how do you notice it?\"\r\n\r\nThis site:\r\nhttp://fontsinuse.com/\r\n\r\nSure,
    it's still growing. I check it regularly. And I always check it during the auditioning
    (of type) process.\r\n\r\nI have no connection whatsoever to fontsinuse.com, but
    it is a font sales tool (even if that wasn't the intention of the site). \r\n"
  created: '2013-03-14 06:41:37'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "Indeed, I'm going off topic here. I would like to add something about sales
    and service regardless of price.\r\n\r\nI really like it when a foundry emails
    me after I buy their fonts. This is good service, good relationship building,
    and good marketing. You probably can't do this with your sales data from myfonts?
    I tell you though, it's a good practice and is customarily used by the best retailers.\r\n\r\nFoundries/vendors
    I've actually heard from after making a purchase: House Industries, The Colour
    Grey, Type Together, Darden Studio, and Village.\r\n\r\nThere's no mistaking it:
    regardless of price, these people are winning my heart and my dollars."
  created: '2013-03-14 06:59:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This just in... 91% off on a 6+ year old design from an oldschool designer:\r\nhttp://us1.campaign-archive2.com/?u=7abb0d13c84391b793bbc8f95&id=d0d06766e6&e=9724074045\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: J Weltin
      picture: 111273
    body: Not sure wether to feel flattered or not :-)
    created: '2013-03-15 13:33:06'
  created: '2013-03-14 21:10:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Only an observation. I'm still undecided on all this myself.\r\n\r\nOr do
    you mean the \"oldschool\" bit? That actually is the highest compliment I can
    give.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-15 14:01:45'
date: '2013-03-04 01:54:07'
title: Massive introductory discounts discussion

---
