---
author:
  name: doubledaggers
body: "Been seeing this around a lot for the last little bit, and while everyone I
  talk to recognizes the trend, no one I've spoken to has any idea what to call it,
  and therefore searching for examples has been difficult. I'm hoping to get some
  guidance if there is actually a name for it \u2014 I'm <i>not</i> looking for snarky
  barbs in terms of appraisal of this trend. \r\n\r\nI've attached some images, but
  overall I'd describe it as being a design approach with priority on type, characterized
  by unconventional grids, typically monochromatic or duotoned color selection, minimal
  use of photos/illustrations, frequent use of minimal geometric graphics, and frequently
  executed with fonts by The Entente, but also with Futura, Times. Ideologically it
  seems to be taking a na\xEFve posture \u2014 and while there is a superficial lo-fi-ness
  to it, it's still pretty systematized/polished.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Some call it anti-design. Trendlist.org had a nice overview, but it appears
    they forgot to pay their bills. '
  created: '2013-03-06 20:08:14'
- author:
    name: doubledaggers
  body: "Thanks Frode \u2014 digging a little deeper it looks like they've assigned
    the term \"Exposed Content\" to this trend, which is definitely yielding some
    helpful returns on a search.  Anybody else know of alternate names?"
  created: '2013-03-06 20:20:19'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "LOL ...I was just going to refer that site,  and they created a layout generator
    too.\r\n\r\nA lot of the trendier layouts come from text-on-a-path and then instead
    of column grid layouts as in your 2nd example, these paths are then overlayed
    or isolated as typographic shapes themselves.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-06 20:28:33'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "The style itself is not called \u201Cexposed content\u201D \u2014 that is
    just one of the signatures of the style. Too bad trendlist is down. It named all
    the various methods/effects: exposed content, gradients, IK blue, left right up
    down, slash, diamond, scanned etc, but not the type.  \r\n\r\nTrends are nothing
    new. This is just the design equivalent of wearing glasses with a 20/20 vision."
  created: '2013-03-06 20:32:52'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I think the stuff on trend list is just the thin edge of the knife. There's
    new era coming to typography. And it roots can traced back to early 20th century.\r\n\r\nThe
    rigid grid will always be the other option.\r\n\r\nBut a hybrid of the two will
    be common place in less then 5 years.\r\n\r\n\r\nn. "
  created: '2013-03-06 20:41:23'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "This is my first exposure to this style <em>per se</em>. My first reaction
    is that it embodies many of the principles of Bauhaus/Swiss/modernist design:\r\n\r\n*
    Typography as the principal visual element\r\n* Preference for simple sans-serif
    types, minimal use of large type sizes, and use of a single font throughout.\r\n*
    Grid as the definer of the space.\r\n* White (or flat color) space as an important
    compositional element. \r\n* Avoidance of decorative elements other than simple
    geometric shapes.\r\n* Emphasizing the two-dimensionality of the page space. \r\n\r\nI
    see some influence of the backlash against modernism that cropped up in the 1980s
    (a style I used to call sub-modernism):\r\n\r\n* Offbeat use of color.\r\n* Non-traditional
    use of letterspacing.\r\n* Intentional violations of the grid. \r\n\r\nYour examples
    are different from mid-20th-Century modernism in that they have more sense of
    style, and even a hint of playfulness. \r\n\r\nThe modernist aesthetic was partly
    a matter of acknowledging, and even celebrating, the industrial processes that
    produced office buildings and books. Type on a grid with little color or decoration
    was optimal for letterpress printing. The examples here are riffing on that look,
    but they also have some fun with the freedom that digital production gives them
    to superimpose type on photos, etc. \r\n\r\nIf I had to name it, I'd pick something
    like Digital Modernism. Or maybe I'd refer to the Bauhaus influence, and call
    it Adobe-haus."
  created: '2013-03-06 20:41:24'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "And too see how rapidly things are changing as far as Digital Modernism is
    concerned check out this tumblr...\r\n\r\nhttp://victoriawarnken.tumblr.com/\r\n\r\n...and
    here's another,\r\n\r\nhttp://imparcollective.tumblr.com/\r\n\r\netc..\r\n\r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 20:53:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What's worse: being dumb, or <em>acting</em> dumb?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: etahchen
    body: lol
    created: '2013-03-08 11:15:33'
  created: '2013-03-06 21:02:47'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Awesome ... a rhetorical question.\r\n\r\n...sigh.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-06 21:15:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I wasn't referring to you.\r\n\r\nAnd actually I think it's OK if people
    have different answers. It's just that the way they answer it reveals something
    about their nature (which is what makes for a good question).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 21:19:20'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Coolio, I'll drink to that. \r\n\r\nFact remains it's still a rhetorical
    question.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-06 21:24:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me a rhetorical question is not a question, it's a rhetorical device intended
    to make a statement. I was not making a statement.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 21:30:50'
- author:
    name: doubledaggers
  body: "@Victor To your point about the sense of playfulness, I've been referring
    to it in my head as \"deadpan design\" as it seems to have similar DNA to what
    Wes Anderson has done in his films' type treatments: there's a straight-faced
    reference to this sort of vintage avant garde/high brow treatment, but it's done
    with a wink.\r\n\r\n@Neil That's partly why I finally wanted to get this sorted
    out \u2014 this trend (or trends with similar hallmarks) keep cropping up, and
    I think it's becoming more of a movement than just a treatment. I feel like it's
    wrapped up in this zeitgeist of transparency and sincerity: they're \"designing
    down\" or at least using a short-hand for a na\xEFve design approach to communicate
    honesty/earnestness/every-man-ness. It seems like there's the <i>business as usual</i>
    reaction against polished establishment & corporate design, but I think what's
    interesting to me is that there's almost an element of a reaction against irony,
    as well.  \r\n\r\n@hrant I suppose the answer to that largely depends on what
    your goals are ;)"
  created: '2013-03-06 21:40:06'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Several of those examples remind me of things design students do when they're
    deliberately being unconventional and pushing the boundaries. The result isn't
    always \"good design\" in the conventional sense (for example the one with text
    overlaying a rather busy photo background), but it would be a boring world if
    everyone followed the same design rules.\r\n\r\n> the freedom that digital production
    gives \r\n> them to superimpose type on photos, etc.\r\n\r\nYep. Years ago I was
    in a large print shop when a job came in with type overlaying photos and color
    blocks in complex ways, and I overheard an employee say \"this job is a stripper's
    nightmare!\"  (\"Stripper\" being the guy who prepared the printing films.) And
    maybe it was with the technology back then. But these days with digital production,
    those things are much easier."
  created: '2013-03-06 21:41:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When something is boring, maybe the person making it is boring. Most people
    are boring, and often they get piercings and stuff to cover up that reality. Following
    rules doesn't have to be boring; the rules can be interestingly complex. It's
    just that most people don't like thinking too hard.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 21:43:27'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "<em>It would be a boring world if everyone followed the same design rules.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue,
    as the anti-design style testifies. "
  created: '2013-03-06 21:53:59'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>I think it's becoming more of a movement than just a treatment.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    do too. And what is even better is that it has gained traction on all levels of
    society including gallery pieces.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I feel like it's wrapped
    up in this zeitgeist of transparency and sincerity: they're \"designing down\"
    or at least using a short-hand for a na\xEFve design approach to communicate honesty/earnestness/every-man-ness.
    </blockquote>\r\n\r\nI don't know about that, but it's in interesting take on
    it. For me it just comes with the proliferation of design software. \r\n\r\n<blockquote>It
    seems like there's the business as usual reaction against polished establishment
    & corporate design, but I think what's interesting to me is that there's almost
    an element of a reaction against irony, as well. </blockquote> \r\n\r\nI remember
    this graphic style gaining attention during the first Cut & Paste comp. Competitions
    like that were a breading ground for graphic layout of quick fun in quick time.
    And as things evolved a fresh design software graphic signature/style began to
    emerge ...seen in band fliers and on underground zines etc.. \r\n\r\nWhat I find
    refreshing is a Mix Don't Match approach to communicating a visual message, that
    and the fresh approach dealing with the surface of the page itself. The good stuff
    has completely shrugged off the shackles of page boarder slavery ... and instead
    has layouts which deal in visual depth (ranging richness to thinness) without
    the use of traditional point perspective(s). But unfortunately the bad stuff is
    seen around more often partly because it is readily understood/copied I guess.\r\n\r\nBut
    the overall rule is the same for all eras of graphic design ... that being one
    of a hierarchy of visual communication. So in that regard, the song remains the
    same. \r\n\r\n\r\nn.\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-07 03:39:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>And what is even better is that it has gained traction on all
    levels of society including gallery pieces.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYeah, like Ebola.\r\n\r\nCheck
    out this \"masterpiece\":\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/albert-jan_pool/8038443339/\r\n\r\nBeing
    intelligent is becoming less and less cool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-07 03:39:48'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I seen that before ...and I like it because it's nasty.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Being
    intelligent is becoming less and less cool.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nCare to elaborate
    on that one?\r\n\r\nn.  "
  created: '2013-03-07 03:57:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So the Stedelijk Museum Amsterdam is supposed to project an image of nasty?\r\n\r\nThese
    days being dumb and/or acting dumb makes people like you; because we tell people
    they're god's gift to society, so it doesn't make sense for them to feel inferior
    to others.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: etahchen
    body: i feel like the happiest people are the 'dumb' ones. thinking is just really
      stressful.
    created: '2013-03-08 11:23:29'
  created: '2013-03-07 04:20:26'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Nasty...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.urbandictionary.com/define.php?term=nasty\r\n\r\n2nd
    and 3rd definition ...  you know something like gnarly. To put it in Cali speak
    :) \r\n\r\nI disagree tho about this Digital Moderism style of graphic communication
    as being one of god's gift to society. It is just as effective as your dusty graphic
    traditions.\r\n\r\nIn fact, more so because it has captured the attention of a
    whole new generation! It is completely in sync with youthful modern society ...cool
    and uncool alike!\r\n\r\n\r\nn.\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-07 04:59:24'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm not sure I see a consistent style in all of those examples. Some of the
    more awkward examples remind me of David Carson era work. Basically eschewing
    the grid completely and working more organically with placing elements on the
    page. Ignoring the rules. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-07 06:22:45'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I happen to think the Stedelijk identity is great, but that\u2019s just me.
    \ As with any effect, it works well when used apropriately, but looses its power
    when overused. \r\n\r\nI don\u2019t think \u201Cdigital modernism\u201D (or whatever)
    is a movement. The cool kids have already moved on."
  created: '2013-03-07 10:56:49'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: The term digital modernism makes me think of the digital hardcore music scene.
    As a movement it had its place in the 90s and while it is something I am personally
    a fan of it does not really define everything the movement was about, that has
    stemmed from it and it is (arguably) not really a thing in its own right today.
    Whatever this is, it has its roots in a variety of movements from the last 100
    years and seems more like a minor trend, revival or neo-movement within a variety
    of analogous areas of graphic design, music, fashion and art.
  created: '2013-03-07 11:42:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Can I call it boring? Mind you, I call most design trends boring; indeed,
    design is a pretty boring subject. Sure, this is a subjective response, but I'm
    regularly amazed by people who find graphic design an interesting subject, especially
    when it has devolved to the level of fashion.
  created: '2013-03-07 18:42:24'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I have to agree with Darrell: I do not see a trend, but rather a pastiche
    of pastiches. In several of the examples, you have pure Dadaism in design, without
    the intellectual content\u2026which means I also have to agree with Hrant\u2019s
    observation that <em>being intelligent is becoming less and less cool.</em>"
  created: '2013-03-07 20:30:44'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "John,\r\nTrends in general\u2014and following trends in particular\u2014are
    basically simply an abdication of individual responsibility. I have grown beyond
    weary with the many \u201CTrending Now\u201D sidebars which are showing up on
    more and more websites. It appears that, besides being intelligent, thinking for
    one\u2019s self is also becoming less and less cool\u2026"
  created: '2013-03-07 20:35:41'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>Can I call it boring?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou can call it whatever
    you want, just don't complain if someone takes that as the basis for a new movement
    : )"
  created: '2013-03-07 20:38:43'
- author:
    name: doubledaggers
  body: "Gosh, I thought used pretty plain language when I wrote: \"<em>I'm hoping
    to get some guidance if there is actually a name for it \u2014 I'm not looking
    for snarky barbs in terms of appraisal of this trend.</em>\" But thanks anyway
    for the <em>kids these days</em> handwringing and the snobbery.\r\n\r\nAs far
    as not \"seeing the trend\" \u2014 If you mean that from the examples given here,
    in this post, you don't see a consistent application of the exact same principles
    from piece to piece, fine, that's valid. But as I mentioned, not knowing what
    to call something makes it difficult to search for, and also to aggregate examples
    \u2014\_so I'm left with what I've happened to bookmark that I recognize as being
    part of a larger trend.\r\n\r\nIf on the other hand, you mean that you are not
    seeing this trend in the wild, or more broadly, that you are simply not familiar
    with it, that is less a dismissal of the trend and more a dismissal from a meaningful
    place in <em>this</em> conversation, where I am explicitly looking for input from
    people who <em>are</em> familiar with it.\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------\r\n\r\nBack
    to the conversation at hand \u2014 and I'm definitely getting to a \"why bother\"
    place here, but just in case anyone was <em>actually</em> interested \u2014 I
    finally got my hands on Computer Arts' Typography Collection last night, and they've
    got some interesting notes on these microtrends in their trend report from FranklinTill.
    I thought I'd share some excerpts here from their appraisals, here:\r\n\r\n<strong>Microtrend:
    House of Fun</strong>\r\n\"Bold statements have been given a witty, light-hearted
    twist... bad taste is being celebrated by designers who utilise free fonts, clip
    art and Letraset transfers.\"\r\n\r\n\"Design collective Zweizehn's... tongue
    in cheek approach gently mocks the showy celebrity world, whilst still trying
    to be a part of it. 'Trashy' renderings and comic typography push the posters
    in a fun direction so they stand out from more obvious party flyers.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Microtrend:
    Soft Modernity</strong>\r\n\"[Last year] We tracked a theme through many of the
    design sectors the explored notions of simplicity and clarity. In a bid to stand
    out amidst the visual noise that surrounds us on a daily basis, an increasingly
    sober approach is being applied.... We have seen a return to minimalism... utilising
    unfettered sans-serif fonts and limited colour palettes. Over the last year, this
    minimalist and monochrome direction has softened to become slightly less sober
    and more feminine, whilst still retaining a bold and clean aesthetic. Fonts such
    as Aper\xE7u... have gained much pupularity... Klim Type Foundry's Calibre has
    also been widely adopted.\"\r\n\r\n\"Using sans-serif typefaces in modular graphic
    grids, together with solid pastel tones create a new form of modernity\" \r\n\r\n<strong>Microtrend:
    Gothic Revival</strong>\r\n\"Elsewhere, designers continue to update historical
    forms to make them feel newer and fresher. Lydian MT, the traditional gothic font
    designed by Warren Chappell in 1938, is a source of inspriation for many designers.\"
    Erik Johsson's font based t-shirt for the Violent Elegance series uses lydian
    bold, framed within a geometric grid. \r\n\r\n<strong>Macrotrend: The Real Thing</strong>\r\nAfter
    these reports on these microtrends, they segue into a macrotrend they're calling
    <em>The Real Thing</em>, which they characterize as being defined by: Tradition
    Revived, The Magic of Making, Linking Past to Present, and Traditions Reborn.
    Here are some salient points,\r\n\r\n\"We have seen not only a return to traditional
    visual design references, but also the celebration of the craftspeople and producers
    themselves.\"\r\n\r\n\"...We explored how transparency in the production process
    was being used to communicate to consumers how products are made. The consumer's
    desire to learn how things are made shows no sign of waning, whilst also being
    a tool for brands to communicate the rich stories behind their products.\"\r\n\r\n\"Preservation
    of our cultural typographic surroundings is a major factor for those wanting to
    connect us to our past as well as future, but also to connect a community to its
    history.\"\r\n\r\n\"Traditional typography techniques are seeing a revival. Methods
    such as letterpressing are being combined with modern aesthetic interpretations.
    \ <em>Das Mainzer Grotesk Experiment</em> by design collective Zweizehn celebrated
    the experimental use of the letterpress rather than simply focusing on its retro
    charm. Zweizehn created and cast its own letterpress type and invited up-an-coming
    typographers Marcel H\xE4usler, Alexander Lis, Daniel Weberru\xDF and Malte Weinmann
    to create posters in response to the question 'More than Retro?'\"\r\n\r\nI think
    it's interesting to frame these layout patterns as a part of this \"Real Thing\"
    trend, and I definitely think there's a confirmation in what's been previously
    mentioned in this thread around the ideas of levity, reaction against corporate
    mass-production and its attendant polished styles, and a pivot on classic design
    clich\xE9s. Here's some more examples from groups that they call out in the collection:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/collection1_3559.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/collection2_6431.jpg]\r\n\r\nSee
    also: \r\n<a href=\"\">www.aronfilkey.com</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.les-graphiquants.fr/\">www.les-graphiquants.fr</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://blog.zweizehn.com/\">blog.zweizehn.com/</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://blog.zweizehn.com/post/14818103335/das-mainzer-grotesk-experiment\">
    Das Mainzer Grotesk Experiment</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.davisngarupe.com/\">Davis
    Ngarupe</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://k-u-n-g.com/\">KUNG</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://teamyacht.com/\">YACHT</a>"
  created: '2013-03-07 21:26:41'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Jory: I most certainly observe the trend. It is widely employed in the Oslo
    graphic scene, but it\u2019s getting old quickly. In my opinion a \u201Cmovement\u201D
    implies some sort of deeper reasoning, and <em>that</em> I don\u2019t see here."
  created: '2013-03-07 21:35:26'
- author:
    name: jbenjamin
    picture: 123227
  body: "I find this discussion extremely interesting. I feel like graphic design
    as a function in society is becoming more and more recognized (departing the \xBBOh,
    thats actually a job?\xAB-sphere). Living and working in Berlin, it's ubiquitous
    \u2014 both this \u203Aanti-design\u2039 and the awareness. I like the pastiches
    within pastiches, because I like the inherent post-modern idea to take existing
    codes and rearranging/intertwining them. It can be very exciting, and there can
    be great results from people approaching a design with less inhibition concerning
    rules and proper usage. I kind of see it as graphic designs\u2019 equivalent to
    Jaimie Warrens\u2019 photography in a way if that makes sense...\r\n\r\nAs a job,
    graphic design is a craft to me. Me and some colleagues refer to this style as
    \u203Ahortig\u2039, meaning HORT, a Berlin-based agency that constantly rides
    the edge of ugliness and genius or just pleasing. And I have done that myself
    I guess. But this \u203Aanti-design\u2039 can also be nothing more than just a
    quick fix. If applied properly though, with context and function or the deliberate
    disregard for both, I would definitely consider it a style that is itself composed
    of anachronistic elements. Movement might be a bit much though.\r\n\r\nAnyways,
    my two cents. Exciting."
  children:
  - author:
      name: doubledaggers
    body: 'Jesse: Oh man, HORT! Their collateral for Modular''s Neverland was <i>bonkers!</i>'
    created: '2013-03-07 21:58:30'
  created: '2013-03-07 21:43:36'
- author:
    name: doubledaggers
  body: "Frode: I agree that these microtrends have a brief half-life, and I don't
    see these small patterns as underpinning a movement per se. I think the emotional
    response they seem to born out of, however, is building into something of a movement.
    It's a nice exercise to attempt to identify a movement in its infancy, but you
    are absolutely right: we can only really look at it in hindsight, so time will
    tell. \r\n\r\nAll I was trying to do here is figure out some nomenclature so I
    could track down more examples of it. I'm trying to give my layout students a
    better look at trends in type and the design world <i>as they happen</i>, and
    train them to look for these trends, and get at deeper cause as to why a trend
    gains traction and usage. "
  created: '2013-03-07 21:45:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jory, it's not useful to try to limit the ways in which different people
    will react to a question. People you disagree with can be your best teachers.
    Also, you don't have to like something to think it's worthy of analysis; I myself
    dislike all the \"anti-design\" examples I've ever seen* (even though I dislike
    Modernism as well) but I try to pay attention because that's a designer's responsibility.
    However I think it's good to remind people that just because something is trendy
    doesn't mean it's Good or that it will have deep cultural impact.\r\n\r\n* Especially
    type that acts technically stupid - it's insincere.\r\n\r\nThat said, I think
    your quest to grasp the terminological \"common currency\" is very worthwhile,
    and I hope you share your findings here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-07 22:03:10'
- author:
    name: jbenjamin
    picture: 123227
  body: "Haha, I just saw it. Well, \u203Ahortig\u2039 is not exclusively positive,
    to be sure. Nice collection up there, hard to say if this debate is gonna go much
    further or be conclusive at all. But good to know it exists. \r\n\r\nMy prediction:
    This \u203Aanti-design\u2039 will stick around for quite a while, even if frontrunners
    are moving on; and the point is widely stressed that design doesn't have to be
    punk or folk (just look at a few decent current bands) but can put a lot of notes
    into one arrangement."
  created: '2013-03-07 22:06:19'
- author:
    name: doubledaggers
  body: "Hrant: Please don't get me wrong. I love a good back and forth in a discussion,
    and I am thrilled to interact with people who are fundamentally at odds with me
    in terms of taste, preference, and style. You are absolutely right: these people
    are often your best teachers. \r\n\r\nBut when your first response to a specific
    question in a forum  is \"What's worse acting dumb or being dumb?\" it amounts
    to little more than interrupting and pulling focus. Where <i>exactly</i> is the
    conversation supposed to go after that?\r\n\r\nSo yes, let's have a discussion
    about what defines this trend, let's identify what qualities these pieces share,
    let's talk about what is at the core of the movement (which, hey, maybe \"acting
    dumb\" <em>is</em> a quality at its core) \u2014\_but let's not derail things
    right off the bat with flippant remarks about ebola, whether being intelligent
    is cool, or what have you.\r\n\r\nAm I crazy here? \r\n\r\nIf this was a real
    life discussion, and I'd laid out a bunch of work from various people, and said
    \"I'm trying to classify these pieces, is there a name out there for this style
    and I just don't know it? Or is this something new? These are what I could find,
    but these are some qualities I'm talking about...\" and you strolled over after
    the discussion had begun with an arch \"What's worse acting dumb or being dumb?\"
    How exactly do you think that would be received? \r\n\r\nIs or is it <em>not</em>
    a dick move to sit through this conversation of your own free will and then interject
    \"This is boring! I'm amazed you people actually care about this!\" \r\n\r\nIs
    or is it <em>not</em> a dick move to walk into a room where people are talking
    about trends and drop an icy \"I think all people who follow trends are abdicating
    their individual responsibility and refuse to think for themselves\"?\r\n\r\nAre
    these the actions of people trying to have a conversation, or trying to put the
    brakes on the conversation? Do the rest of us get to just jump back in to what
    we were talking about, or do we have to actually stop and address and acknowledge
    what in any other situation would be patently rude behavior? "
  created: '2013-03-07 23:19:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Where exactly is the conversation supposed to go after that?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAnywhere
    anybody wants to take it. Nobody is obliged to react to anybody else, certainly
    not in a way they want you to...\r\n\r\nBut I apologize if I was dismissive. It
    might be because -unlike you- most people who are fans of this style are not interested
    in thinking/communicating, but simply doing. Which to me is boring. In fact the
    <em>last</em> thing I want to do is prevent discussion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-07 23:24:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Eike K\xF6nig of Hort will be speaking at the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis
    on Tuesday as part of their [[http://www.walkerart.org/calendar/2013/insights-eike-koenig-hort-berlin|Insights
    lecture series]]. It will be [[http://www.walkerart.org/channel|webcast live]]. "
  created: '2013-03-07 23:54:39'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "To label this graphic design evolution as anti-design can't be fully justified.\r\n\r\nI
    thought the old fogies learnt how ridiculous it is to try to stop evolution! Even
    after they burnt all their Beatles LPs ...and their Elvis LPs too ... LOOL!!!!!\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-08 05:24:26'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Am I crazy here?\"\r\n\r\nNo. But maybe a bit naive. This is the internet.
    It's full of snark. Roll with it. ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-08 07:51:04'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "The term \u2018anti-design\u2019 is not necessarily dismissive. It just describes
    the breaking of established rules and norms. In the context of type, anti-design
    could for example be to omit optical adjustments in search of a na\xEFve style.
    (Berton Hasebe, Platform; Aur\xE8le Sack, LL Brown; The Entente, Aper\xE7u) What
    I\u2019m missing from the discussion is this: When does anti-design become just
    <em>poor</em> design?"
  created: '2013-03-08 12:04:13'
- author:
    name: jbenjamin
    picture: 123227
  body: "Frode: That is exactly how I meant it. I don't think \u203Aanti-design\u2039
    is necessarily dismissive, just as anti-establishment isn't. \r\n\r\nAnd personally
    I think the application of these styles are poor when implemented without context
    or cause. It can be quite a quick fix, create a duplex-image and a 4-by-6-grid
    using Century Gothic with 120%-glyph-height and there you go. If the content of
    the design on the other hand transcends historical/political/etc classifications,
    \u203Aanti-design\u2039 can be a fine choice \u2014 but regarding work ethic,
    I think it has to be a deliberate choice (even when playful \u2013 at least in
    hindsight) or it's just insulting pretty much."
  created: '2013-03-08 13:19:46'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "All design, from corporate branding to my barber's hand-lettered sign that
    says \"No Waiting,\" has the purpose of adapting a client's (or author's) message
    to a medium and an audience. \r\n\r\nWhat we might call anti-design is mostly
    just getting attention by subverting the audience's expectations--or more likely,
    reassuring an audience that they're the cool kids because they're in on the subversive
    joke. \r\n\r\nPoor design promotes the designer's message--or lack of one--at
    the expense of the client and the audience. Poor design drives the audience away,
    e.g., by lack of legibility or insensitivity to cultural symbols. Poor design
    sends the wrong message about the client, e.g., by rebranding a prestigious state
    university as a [[http://vimeo.com/53530934|beach-bum party school]]. \r\n"
  created: '2013-03-08 13:35:31'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> All I was trying to do here is figure out some \r\n> nomenclature so I
    could track down more examples of it\r\n\r\nKeep in mind that newer trends may
    not have agreed-upon names. I've seen this in articles about logo trends, for
    example, where various magazines and blogs use different names for the same trend.\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-08 17:12:46'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">  from corporate branding to my barber's hand-lettered sign\r\n\r\nOne of
    my design professors used to use this example. Imagine 2 signs. One says \"First
    National Bank\" and is made of steel and marble. The other one is outside a farmhouse
    and says \"Fresh Eggs\" and is made from a piece of cardboard. It's hard to image
    2 signs that are more different, but each is appropriate for its purpose and setting.\r\n\r\n>
    What we might call anti-design is mostly just getting \r\n> attention by subverting
    the audience's expectations\r\n\r\nYes, I think that's a big factor. And even
    though it might be harder to read in some cases, readability isn't the only factor
    in design. They are trying to appeal to their target audience."
  created: '2013-03-08 17:32:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Victor, James, that all certainly makes great sense. What bothers [people
    like] me though is the celebration of incompetence.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-08 17:44:35'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Well, Hrant, thanks to the democratization of design via desktop publishing,
    incompetence will\u2014increasingly and unavoidably\u2014always be with us\u2026"
  created: '2013-03-08 19:34:32'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> the celebration of incompetence\r\n\r\nBut there is a difference between
    someone who produces unconventional designs due to ignorance (an amateur), and
    someone who understands design principles and deliberately choses to bend the
    rules.\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-08 21:21:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Agreed. I guess the question becomes: when you make a font that acts incompetent,
    are you doing it because you value that, or because you want to make a font that
    lets a graphic designer convey incompetence? For example, I enjoyed watching Beavis
    and Butthead not because they were a couple of really stupid dudes but because
    the show <em>made fun of</em> idiocy.\r\n\r\nThis sort of question might seem
    too preoccupied with Intent. But personally that's how I like it.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-08 21:40:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Karl: <em>You can call it whatever you want, just don't complain if someone
    takes that as the basis for a new movement : )</em>\r\n\r\nNow you're talking!
    I look forward to observing the progress of the International Ennui Movement in
    art and design."
  created: '2013-03-09 00:27:07'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>It just describes the breaking of established rules and norms.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOK
    fine, but that only justifies it as design ... not as anti-design ...therefore
    quite competent and fully functional as a means to an end.\r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-09 04:46:59'
- author:
    name: washishu
    picture: 124368
  body: "I've enjoyed reading this thread.\r\n\r\nI tend to agree with aluminum's
    observation that there are signs of David Carson / RayGun / BlahBlahBlah in there,
    also, perhaps, some of Neville Brody's later, more conventional/restrained work.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I first started work as an apprentice comp. in the 1960s I worked for a small
    company that had been in business since the 1920s. One day I unearthed a box of
    old electros from the 1920s/30s that were created from either hand-drawn lettering
    or from repro proof paste-ups. Many of them were two-colour sets, wrapped with
    a proof. Type reversed out of a colour band or stripe or colour on colour was
    popular. There is something about the use of colour in these examples that reminds
    me of those electrotypes. The influence, I believe, came from a very watered down
    Art Deco; typefaces used were either Gill Sans variants or were geometric sans
    faces, both of which were popular amongst jobbing printers at that time.\r\n\r\nOne
    of the things that always frustrated my desires with my early, naive designs was
    the limitations of hot metal typesetting; anything beyond the horizontal and vertical
    was problematic. We had angle-quads which would, with considerable work, allow
    45 degree angles\u2014like the example in the CAB09.Spread 01.jpg example, but
    I was only very rarely allowed to use them as it took much longer to set and time
    was money. That example looks very like it could have been set in hot metal type
    and I wonder if the designer is mimicking this\u2014either consciously or otherwise.\r\n\r\nA
    couple of the page layout examples remind me of the layouts produced by Octavo
    in the 80s.\r\n\r\nConclusion? I'm not sure but maybe there are a number of influences
    at work here. Perhaps it is, like the widespread use of typewriter faces in the
    early days of desk-top-publishing, some kind of back-to-basics\u2014simplicity
    is never poverty; it is great virtue movement, if in fact it is a movement at
    all."
  created: '2013-03-10 16:40:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's an interesting line of thought. There's been a lot of letterpress
    fetishism in design schools in the past few years, and it's possible that's leading
    some people to try to reproduce that naive look in digital.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-10 16:45:16'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "I have heard people calling this trend \u2018post design\u2019. The term
    suggests that contemporary applied art (which I will refer to as design here)
    should look like as if not being designed at all. As if designers now can leave
    all things that are thought of as \u2018rules\u2019 can be \u2018left behind\u2019.
    As if designers may now become something like artists. A strange attitude in a
    time where practically everyone that has access to a computer can \u2018design\u2019
    something. Yes, I think that everyone can be an artist, but design is right between
    craftsmanship and art. Surely, we can debate wether artistic talent can be \u2018taught\u2019
    at an art school at all, but in the case of craftsmanship, the idea that it may
    fall from the sky is nonsense. And, seeing this from a practical point of view,
    why would clients pay for something that is as illegible and user-unfriendly as
    anything else one can pick from the street? In Europe, partly due to the shift
    to the bachelor-master in design education, art theoreticians that are new to
    the applied arts have begun promoting the idea that by introducing art-theory
    into design education, and making it a major part in master sudy programs, applied
    art is now being upgraded into \u2018art\u2019 (or at least something very very
    close to it \u2026). Which, imho, is humbug. When designers are going to behave
    as artists, they will soon be ending up as artists. Which is fine with me as long
    as they do not call their work \u2018design\u2019. I\u2019m fine with design theory,
    but I think that the applied arts need their own focus in this field. There is
    still a lot to be researched when it comes to legibility, readability, usability,
    sustainability, etc. Also the history of writing, lettering, calligraphy, book
    design, graphic design is a field where research which even recognizes us designers
    as people that may eventually come up with suggestions on where research is needed
    and how our knowledge could be scientifically evaluated is rare."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Albert Jan Pool
      picture: 111860
    body: 'A quick glance at this one here http://www.flickr.com/photos/hardwig/6147806914/
      may illustrate the need for graphic designers (in this case: type designers)
      getting involved in research that currently counteracts our profession, rather
      than hiding ourselves in arty-farty ivory towers. '
    created: '2013-03-18 13:51:28'
  created: '2013-03-18 13:47:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think you're right that Design has been moving towards Art lately. To me
    that's a natural (but undesirable) result of the West's emphasis on individuality,
    where people think expressing one's self is a valid career choice, and designers
    are basically failed artists - people who would rather be painting things in their
    pajamas but they realize they have to pay for that nice car and cellphone plan
    <em>somehow</em> so they end up getting into design. The result isn't pretty (even
    though the results are pretty :-).\r\n\r\nBTW I'm starting to think that \"undesign\"
    is the best term here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-18 16:20:59'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "As I commented a week or two ago, \"All design . . .  has the purpose of
    adapting a client's (or author's) message to a medium and an audience . . . Poor
    design promotes the designer's message--or lack of one--at the expense of the
    client and the audience.\"\r\n\r\nIn the past couple of centuries, Western industrial
    societies have come to think of <em>art</em> as where the artist's own message
    trumps all other considerations, and <em>design</em> as where the designer's imagination
    and skill serve as a vehicle for someone else's message. \r\n\r\nThe border between
    <em>art</em> and <em>design</em> is permeable, as it should be, to allow good
    ideas to flow back and forth. But if we remove the border entirely, we risk encouraging
    designers to neglect our professional responsibility to authors, publishers, clients,
    readers, and viewers. "
  created: '2013-03-18 16:53:45'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Art and design have entirely different goals, but I agree that the border
    can be permeable. \r\n\r\nOne reason for some overlap is that that art and design
    share many tools and techniques. Also many designers started off as artists, but
    at some point (like in college) realized that design was a better fit for them.\r\n\r\n>
    [artists] who would rather be painting things in their pajamas \r\n> but they
    realize they have to pay for that nice car ...\r\n\r\nI think folks in that category
    generally go into commercial illustration. It can pay well and it's closer to
    their sensibilities. "
  created: '2013-03-18 18:39:19'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I heard once that a photographer surprised Churchill by grabbing his cigar
    out of his mouth, and the portrait captured his anger. I wonder if that's the
    portrait that's on the stamp.\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-18 19:06:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Yes, that's the famous Karsh cigar-less Churchill portrait.\r\nhttp://iconicphotos.wordpress.com/2009/07/31/winston-churchill-by-yousef-karsh/"
  created: '2013-03-19 03:48:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Speaking of art:\r\nWhen I was in art school c.1970, conceptual art was the
    big thing. \r\nIt\u2019s now mainstream in gallery art.\r\nConceptualism makes
    the distinction between artists and makers, with making derogated.\r\nNow conceptualism
    has spread further, to commercial design.\r\n(I suppose you could say it was already
    there, as art direction is essentially conceptual\u2014however, the end result
    has traditionally been documents with highly aesthetic qualities.)\r\n\r\nAn example
    I came across yesterday\u2014Canada\u2019s new photography stamps.\r\nWhereas
    a stamp celebrating photography would have in the past (e.g. 2008 Karsh series,
    below) shown photos as aesthetic objects with nice compositions, now the idea
    holds sway.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/st_yousuf_4564.gif]\r\nYousuf
    Karsh was recently feted in Canadian stamps (above, 2008) so now a new series
    of photo stamps cleverly manages to include him\u2014in a conceptual artwork by
    Arnaud Maggs. The photos in Maggs\u2019 work are so small however\u2014even after
    being \u201Ccropped\u201D down to a dozen from 48\u2014that all one notices (at
    real 100% size) are that they are black and white head and shoulders shots of
    a man in a hat. Could be anybody. The stamp as a whole has the plain squared-off
    serial lineup of many of Maggs\u2019 gallery works\u2014lab specimen/minimal/default/non/un-
    design.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arnaud_maggs_yousuf_karsh_5362.jpg.size.xxlarge.letterbox.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    lack of design in the new series of photo stamps may be attributed to the fact
    that the selection of photos was created by a design manager working with curators.
    So all the images are hopelessly the wrong scale for stamps, unless one is a collector
    with a magnifying glass. But there\u2019s a lot of supporting BS, which is a hallmark
    of conceptualism:\r\nhttp://www.canadapost.ca/cpo/mc/personal/collecting/stamps/2013/2013_mar_photography.jsf"
  created: '2013-03-19 16:47:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Is Dapifer undesign?\r\nhttp://typographica.org/typeface-reviews/dapifer/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-19 19:11:06'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Nick, that stuff looks lame/conservative/dusty, the typography is no where
    near contemporary/digital modernistic. Could that composition come from the 1960's?
    \r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-19 20:37:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Which one?
  created: '2013-03-19 21:52:32'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "All of them. \r\n\r\nThere no interaction of the letter/word shapes with
    the imagery. No dynamics. It's too dutiful in a conservative way. Put this here
    and that there. That's why I think it's feels stale.  \r\n\r\nimho.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-20 04:12:45'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>Is Dapifer undesign?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAltogether too much
    thought and skill have gone into it, something more like OSP...\r\n\r\nhttp://ospublish.constantvzw.org/foundry/"
  created: '2013-03-20 10:32:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Neil, Canadian stamps were better designed in the 60s.\r\nThey have been
    crap for years now, for a number of reasons.\r\nAlthough I did like the Audrey
    Hepburn\u2014one of the few instances where the artwork reproduced was actually
    appropriate for thumbnail-size reproduction."
  created: '2013-03-20 17:54:48'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Hey Nick, a quick check on Canada Post's website shows that you can do your
    own stamp ...is it time for a Shinn stamp?\r\n\r\nYa I dig that Hepburn image
    too, 'cept I'd throw some typography on top because it is such a strong image
    ...lol. \r\n\r\n\r\nn.\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-21 04:17:14'
- author:
    name: Nathaniel Hebert
    picture: 124615
  body: "Trendlist was referenced in the thread early on, but the site was down, so
    reposting the link for anyone interested.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.trendlist.org/trends/exposed-content\r\n\r\nGestalten
    has a few decent books providing an overview of the direction editorial and graphic
    design is taking. The cheekily named, \"Regular Graphic Design Today\" is a nicely
    curated cross-section of what modern design looks like; a somewhat dada-ist, reductionist,
    type-centric approach to page composition with a healthy sense of humour. Another
    one in the series that I recommend is \"Turning Pages: Editorial Design for Print
    Media\", which makes a case that we're in a golden age of print design because
    in order to succeed, mediocrity is no longer a business model that works.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Regular-Graphic-Design-R-Klanten/dp/3899552539\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/Turning-Pages-Editorial-Design-Print/dp/3899553144/ref=pd_cp_b_3"
  created: '2013-04-03 21:54:56'
date: '2013-03-06 19:53:00'
files:
- filename: CAB09.Cover_01.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/CAB09.Cover_01.jpg
- filename: CAB09.Spread_01.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/CAB09.Spread_01.jpg
- filename: 0064__Jai-Tanju-in-Dank-no4.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/0064__Jai-Tanju-in-Dank-no4.jpg
- filename: 0067__Raphael-Zarka-in-Dank-no4.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/0067__Raphael-Zarka-in-Dank-no4.jpg
- filename: photo_1.png
  uri: public://old-images/photo_1.png
- filename: Screen Shot 2013-03-06 at 12.20.09 PM.png
  uri: public://old-images/Screen Shot 2013-03-06 at 12.20.09 PM.png
- filename: lottanieminen_GD_arttu-01.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/lottanieminen_GD_arttu-01.jpg
- filename: lottanieminen_GD_arttu-04.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/lottanieminen_GD_arttu-04.jpg
- filename: lottanieminen_GD_arttu-05.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/lottanieminen_GD_arttu-05.jpg
node_type: forum
title: What are we calling this trend in layout design?

---
