---
author:
  name: Richard L
body: "All, what is correct apostrophe usage when abreviating \"and\" to \u2019n\u2019?
  (for US grammar)\r\nI've seen all kinds of versions out there."
comments:
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "You have it right: the apostrophe takes the place of both missing letters
    a and d, just as it does in words like \"I'll\" and \"can't.\"\r\n\r\nNot-that-smart
    \"smart\" quotation features assume that a typed apostrophe beginning a word is
    intended to be an open single quote, but they are wrong in cases like '68 Olympics,
    'Tis the season, and rock 'n' roll. "
  created: '2013-03-06 21:04:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Isn\u2019t it about time the poor apostrophe had its own Unicode?"
  created: '2013-03-06 21:26:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But is such use of two apostrophes grammatically correct to begin with? If
    it's not, \"anything goes\" works out fine anyway.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.in-n-out.com/\r\n\r\nBTW
    auto-quotes also mess up the Hawai\u2018ian \u2018okina diacritic.\r\n\r\nNick,
    the apostrophe does have its own Unicode number; but I'm not sure how much it's
    actually referenced.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 21:31:18'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nIf you're thinking of U02BC, that's only appropriate where
    the apostophe serves either as a phonetic modifier or as a letter in its own right,
    so this would be appropriate for words like <em>b'ak'tun</em> or <em>Qur'an,</em>
    but not for words like <em>'n'.</em>\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2013-03-06 21:55:33'
- author:
    name: altsan
    picture: 124930
  body: "Strictly speaking, I believe U+0027 <em>is</em> the apostrophe.  It's only
    typists' convention (and the limitations of ASCII) which causes most word processors
    to use it as a synonym for the right single quote.\r\n\r\nI see the Unicode standard
    describes U+2019/right single quote as also being the 'preferred' apostrophe character
    (goodness knows why), but it doesn't change that U+0027 is the character officially
    assigned as the apostrophe..."
  created: '2013-03-06 22:17:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Andr\xE9, I didn't know that! Thank you.\r\n\r\nAlex, I think 0027 is best
    seen as a non-directional single quote.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 22:19:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "U+0027 is a deliberately ambiguous character intended to represent a left
    quote, a right quote and an apostrophe. It reflects the fact that computer keyboards
    typically follow typewriter keyboards -- as opposed to, say, typesetter keyboards
    --, and these had only one ' key. I don't consider U+0027 to be a character at
    all in the sense of something to be displayed as a text entity; I consider it
    a (not very good) input mechanism for other characters.\r\n\r\nNick: <em>Isn\u2019t
    it about time the poor apostrophe had its own Unicode?</em>\r\n\r\nIt already
    has two. U+2019 is the right quote character that, following writing practice,
    is normally indistinguishable from the apostrophe, hence Unicode's annotation
    that this is the preferred apostrophe character on the grounds that, unlike U+0027,
    it actually looks like an apostrophe. The other apostrophe character is U+02BC,
    but as Andr\xE9 notes this is properly used only in some forms of transcription
    where it typically indicates a glottal stop.\r\n\r\nIs there a need for an apostrophe
    character distinct from the right quote character? I don't think so: written and
    typographic practice is for these two characters to be identical, and I can't
    think of any behaviour distinctions. The problem is not lack of a separate codepoint
    for apostrophe, but the general shittiness of keyboard layouts derived from typewriters
    and the inability of 'smart' quote substitution to handle all the instances in
    which the input mechanism U+0027 needs to be displayed as U+2019."
  created: '2013-03-06 23:17:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually it would be nice to have a proper apostrophe code point, simply
    because an apostrophe is not a quote! They have a different meaning. Just because
    writers and typographers have been too lazy to show a difference doesn't mean
    they never will. Remember, some people like quotes to point in a different direction
    than an apostrophe (not to mention the size potentially being different). I personally
    believe the ideal closing quotes point upward (and inward) and have in fact made
    a font like that (Cristaal). Nobody <em>has</em> to do that, but not having an
    apostrophe code point obstructs that choice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-06 23:40:36'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dontlookback_4838.jpg]\r\n\r\nWe don\u2019t
    need no apostrophes.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2013-03-07 14:56:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Bob D'ylan might not need apostrophes but <a href="http://en.wiktionary.org/wiki/greengrocer%27s_apostrophe">greengrocer's
    do</a>.
  created: '2013-03-07 18:35:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Actually it would be nice to have a proper apostrophe code point,
    simply because an apostrophe is not a quote! They have a different meaning.</em>\r\n\r\nUnicode
    does not encode semantics, it encodes text entities. This $ has a different meaning
    in various countries, despite often having the same name, but is a single character.\r\n\r\nYour
    Cristaal example would be evidence for possible disunification, but idiosyncracy
    tends not to be very convincing in what is, after all, systems built on conventions
    and standardisation. You'd need to present a variety of examples in real-world
    use and make the case this these merit requiring updates of all software to handle
    the new apostrophe character."
  created: '2013-03-07 18:37:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, is producing examples of precedents the only way to achieve disunification?
    What about if I could robustly explain the <em>future</em> benefits?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-07 19:12:04'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Unicode does not encode glyphs, and so each Unicode point actually does represent
    a \"meaning\". So f, f, and i can become the ffi ligature, Arabic letters appear
    only once, and so on.\r\n\r\nIn ASCII, U+0027 is supposed to be the apostrophe
    and closing quote, and U+0060 is supposed to be the opening quote. In practice,
    though, U+0027 was available before U+0060, since that character was only added
    when lower-case was added to ASCII, so the practice of using U+0027 like the symmetrical
    symbol on a typewriter was well established.\r\n\r\nSo there ought to be a <em>different</em>
    Unicode codepoint for the cases where one actually <em>wants</em> the typewriter-style
    symbol!\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, U+0022 is <strong>officially</strong> a typewriter-like
    ambiguous double quote. So single and double quotes are handled very differently
    in the basic 256-character set. On the other hand, guillemets are handled properly
    in Unicode.\r\n\r\nThis is a mess, and the response has been for each operating
    system and application to handle U+0027 in whatever way fits its own needs. Since
    the \"right\" Unicode character is usually one that our keyboards won't let us
    type, I don't know if this can be \"fixed\" in a way that won't just make things
    worse."
  created: '2013-03-07 19:29:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...each Unicode point actually does represent a \"meaning\"</em>\r\n\r\nNo.
    Meaning is semantic content of language. Writing systems capture various aspects
    of language as text, but outside of the Chinese ideographic system semantics are
    generally the least commonly captured aspect of language (English orthography
    only captures semantics via some punctuation, notably in the distinction between
    <em>its</em> and <em>it's</em>, i.e. a distinction of meaning that is phonetically
    absent).\r\n\r\nUnicode encodes text entities for plain text processing, which
    means, as you note, that it does not usually encode glyph variants (ironically,
    the two examples you give of ffi ligature and Arabic positional forms are exceptions,
    since these have encoded presentation forms for backwards compatibility). But
    not encoding glyph variants does not mean that what Unicode encodes is <em>meaning.</em>
    Even in the case of East Asian ideographs, what Unicode encodes are the text entities
    needed for plain text processing, not the meaning of the characters (obviously,
    since some characters have multiple meanings or have diverged in their meaning
    in different cultures).\r\n\r\n<em>In ASCII, U+0027 is supposed to be the apostrophe
    and closing quote, and U+0060 is supposed to be the opening quote.</em>\r\n\r\nU+0060
    is a spacing grave accent, and is clearly identified as such in the Unicode Standard.
    It is not an opening quote and is not intended to be used as such. [BTW, there
    is no such thing as an 'opening quote' character outside of the conventions of
    particular punctuation systems. The 'left quote' character is a closing quote
    in the German system.]"
  created: '2013-03-07 19:49:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>John, is producing examples of precedents the only way to achieve
    disunification? What about if I could robustly explain the future benefits?</em>\r\n\r\nProviding
    examples of existing use is by far the easiest means to get any character encoded
    in Unicode. In the case of disunifications, the bar is higher than for new characters,
    because stability is one of the principle goals of any technical standard. In
    the case of Unicode, stability can also be a strict requirement due to signed
    agreements with other standards organisations that rely on Unicode not changing
    certain things. So, for example, Unicode has agreed with the <a href=\"http://www.ietf.org/\">IETF</a>
    not to introduce any more characters with canonical decompositions. Some disunifications
    are likely to be subject to such agreements.\r\n\r\nReally, I think your idea
    is likely a non-starter, because you're talking about disunifying characters that
    have been part of ASCII or ANSI for a heck of a long time. This is the sort of
    stuff that software developers consider core library stuff that no one has had
    to think about for decades. With regard to 'future benefits', pushback is much
    more likely to focus on future disruptions."
  created: '2013-03-07 19:59:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sadly I have to agree that it's pretty hopeless.\r\n\r\nWhat about co-opting
    an existing seldom-used apostrophe-like code point? Like U02BC.\r\n\r\nOr even
    adding a new one: \"Apostrophe We Never Knew We Really Needed\".  :-)\r\n(And
    just for the memories: http://typophile.com/node/69010)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-07 20:06:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Well, yes, you could take the uppercase eszett approach, and encode a new
    character without changing any official behaviour for existing characters. The
    argument in that case is along the lines of 'Some people want to be able to distinguish
    an apostrophe from a right quote, so without changing the existing dual identity
    of U+2019, we'd like to encode a distinct apostrophe character'.\r\n\r\nAnd I'm
    99.9% certain that the response in that case would be 'Such people should use
    U+02BC'."
  created: '2013-03-07 20:16:10'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Jeez: talk about a tempest in a teapot\u2026\r\n\r\nThe hell with the rules:
    we\u2019re talking about <strong>Rock \u2018n\u2019 Roll</strong> here, so what<strong>
    looks cool</strong> rules, and especially more so if it rhymes. Sheesh\u2026"
  created: '2013-03-07 20:25:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "R\xF6ck \u201An\u2018 R\xF6ll"
  created: '2013-03-07 21:38:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>U+0060 is a spacing grave accent</cite>\r\n\r\nBack
    in the old days of ASCII, U+0060 was a grave accent only to the same extent as
    U+0022 was an umlaut and U+0027 was an acute accent. That is, one possible unconventional
    coding was to overstrike those characters, and have their shape altered on sophisticated
    systems, or their meaning recognized by humans for output fr0m unsophisticated
    ones, to attain accents.\r\n\r\nThat this exotic coding is now claimed as the
    primary meaning of the character in the Unicode standard... is, I suppose, possible,
    but if so it does not give me great confidence in the committee responsible.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, I <em>will</em> admit that U+005E was changed from an exponentiation
    symbol or up-arrow to a spacing caret back when ASCII-64 gave way to ASCII-68
    (and lowercase was added). So this trend could indeed have continued when Unicode
    came along.\r\n\r\nHowever, it does appear you are basically right, the story
    being made plain here:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.cl.cam.ac.uk/~mgk25/ucs/quotes.html]]\r\n\r\nbut
    as you can see, this situation is a changed compared to long-established usage...
    and not just in the X Window System either, but in countless ASCII terminals."
  created: '2013-03-07 22:56:13'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "I simply cannot believe a British typographer would claim the following:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Is
    there a need for an apostrophe character distinct from the right-quote character?
    I don't think so: written and typographic practice is for these two characters
    to be identical, and I can't think of any behaviour distinctions. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nYet
    here we are.\r\n\r\nDo I have to look up any of several of my photographs of sentences
    (and, worse, lines) using half-assed British quotation-mark rules that end in
    \u2019 and you cannot figure out what it means until the next line starts?\r\n\r\nHave
    you never had to convert British quotes to U.S./Canadian quotes and found it next
    to impossible without manually inspecting the closing half of every quotation?\r\n\r\nI
    thought Bringhurst was the only British typographer with a tendency to decree
    that real-world scenarios are impossible by definition so follow my advice and
    please stop bothering me."
  created: '2013-03-07 23:09:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joe, I for one would love to see your collection of examples of -what might
    be called- \"apostrophe envy\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-07 23:13:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just so I'm clear: Is an apostrophe in text <em>always</em> encoded as a
    RIGHT SINGLE QUOTE MARK?\r\n\r\nWhat are the chances somebody would write a Word
    and/or InDesign plug-in that goes through a text and changes the \"intended apostrophes\"
    to U+02BC? And/or some custom code point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-07 23:19:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Joe: <em>Do I have to look up any of several of my photographs of sentences
    (and, worse, lines) using half-assed British quotation-mark rules that end in
    \u2019 and you cannot figure out what it means until the next line starts?</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    it is precisely because written and typographic practice is for the right quote
    and apostrophe to be identical that such ambiguities occur. I'm not saying that
    there might not be reasons to want to distinguish them, I'm saying that's not
    how our writing system works. Sure, make the case that they should be distinguished,
    using the many examples you can surely find: that way lies spelling reform, alphabet
    reform, and tinfoil hats.\r\n\r\nAnyway, who you callin' a typographer?"
  created: '2013-03-07 23:27:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Just so I'm clear: Is an apostrophe in text always encoded as
    a RIGHT SINGLE QUOTE MARK?</em>\r\n\r\nNo. Very often it is encoded as the generic
    U+0027. I'm guessing that's probably the most common encoding simply because that's
    what the keyboard makes convenient. In order to encode U+2019, whether as apostrophe
    or quote mark, one either needs to input it directly (ALT+0146 on Windows, custom
    keyboard, etc.) or rely on 'smart quote' algorithms, which work a lot of the time
    and provide work for proofreaders the rest of the time.\r\n\r\n<em>What are the
    chances somebody would write a Word and/or InDesign plug-in that goes through
    a text and changes the \"intended apostrophes\" to U+02BC?</em>\r\n\r\nI think
    you could expect such a plug-in to be about as accurate as smart quote algorithms.
    In other words, it would get it right almost all the time, but would get it wrong
    in some ambiguous circumstances. As Joe rightly points out, it is likely to get
    it wrong more often in British usage."
  created: '2013-03-07 23:45:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Just noticed this earlier comment:\r\n\r\nHrant: <em>BTW auto-quotes also
    mess up the Hawai\u2018ian \u2018okina diacritic.</em>\r\n\r\nThe proper character
    for this really should be U+02BB MODIFIED LETTER TURNED COMMA, but I'm sure it
    occurs encoded in many instances as either U+0027 or U+2018, and doubtless also
    U+2019 whether as the result of smart quote algorithms or ignorance.\r\n\r\nI
    wouldn't classify it as a diacritic: it represents a glottal stop, which means
    it is a full consonant and considered a letter in the alphabet. And to be fair
    to the ignorant, in other orthographies the \u2019 is much more commonly found
    as a glottal stop than the \u2018 shape."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Giovanni Jubert
    body: "Dear John, \r\nCan I ask a bit more about the okina. I place myself on
      the ignorants wanting to learn... ;)\r\nMy question then, this  \u2018 shape
      is the correct use of the okina for Hawaiian words that require that consonant?\r\n\r\nthank
      you for your kind answer.\r\nWith respect & aloha.\r\n\r\nG. J.\r\n"
    created: '2015-04-02 09:49:51'
  created: '2013-03-07 23:47:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>that's not how our writing system works.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn
    terms of an informal -if pervasive- tradition, I would have to agree. But where
    does it say \"they must look the same\"? It's just a lazy fallback (one that can
    cause confusion) and I don't think making the apostrophe and single right quote
    look different is any kind of \"reform\" - it's just a result of believing that's
    Good Design.\r\n\r\nWhen I made Cristaal's right quote(s) point up, that was not
    Wrong, but neither was I following some formal system. And others can see it (or
    hear about it) and possibly follow suit, creating a new tradition. For a while
    -thanks largely to ATF- mirrored quotes (where the left quotes point down) were
    quite common (and interestingly the old MS Core Fonts did that too) but that was
    not some act of sedition.\r\n\r\nThanks for the correction/elaboration on the
    \u2018okina. One thing I value BTW is that it's supposed to point up (because
    that makes it less confusable with the apostrophe).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-07 23:54:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>For a while -thanks largely to ATF- mirrored quotes (where the left quotes
    point down) were quite common (and interestingly the old MS Core Fonts did that
    too) but that was not some act of sedition.</em>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.unicode.org/mail-arch/unicode-ml/y2006-m06/0030.html\">Unless
    you're a German</a> whose <a href=\"http://www.heckmeck.de/computerstuff/anfzeichen/\">punctuation
    system</a> is <a href=\"http://webdesign.crissov.de/Typografie/Zitieren#lieberandersrum\">messed
    up</a> by <a href=\"http://www.unics.uni-hannover.de/nhtcapri/quotation-marks.html\">such
    designs.</a>\r\n\r\nI don't think it's a 'lazy fallback' that the apostrophe and
    right quote look the same. Its the outcome of an historical decision that this
    little mark \u2019 has more than one usage in text. Yes, it might sometimes result
    in confusion, but it's not at all uncommon for writing systems to contain such
    confuseables. Heck, we're talking about capturing natural language here: ambiguity,
    confusion, multiple meanings -- these are the very hallmarks of human communication."
  created: '2013-03-08 00:40:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <tag>
  created: '2013-03-08 01:05:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I remember that German situation being mentioned recently. I'm curious, would
    my upward (and inward) pointing quotes also not work out? Also, would German-localized
    versions of the quote glyphs solve the problem, or are language tags not well-supported?\r\n\r\nAmbiguity
    is natural, but so are warts. Let's treat them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-08 01:45:12'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "Letters:\r\n\u02B9 \u2014 U+02B9 Modifier Letter Prime\r\n\u02BB \u2014 U+02BB
    Modifier Letter Turned Comma\r\n\u02BC \u2014 U+02BC Modifier Letter Apostrophe\r\n\u02CA
    \u2014 U+02CA Modifier Letter Acute Accent\r\n\u02CB \u2014 U+02CB Modifier Letter
    Grave Accent\r\n\r\nPuncutation:\r\n' \u2014 U+0027 Apostrophe\r\n\u2018 \u2014
    U+2018 Left Single Quotation Mark\r\n\u2019 \u2014 U+2019 Right Single Quotation
    Mark\r\n\u2032 \u2014 U+2032 Prime\r\n\u2035 \u2014 U+2035 Reversed Prime\r\n\r\nSymbols:\r\n`
    \u2014 U+0060 Grave Accent\r\n\xB4 \u2014 U+00B4 Acute Accent\r\n\r\nThe Unicode
    standard defines these three categories according to their expected behaviours
    in various writing systems and other forms of written communication (math, etc.).
    Letters are alphabetic elements, like the use of \u02BB U+02BB Modifier Letter
    Turned Comma in Hawaiian to represent the glottal stop /\u0294/. Punctuation is
    an element that is paralinguistic, used for indicating textual phenomena that
    are not necessarily part of the spoken language. (So e.g. commas have an associated
    intonation contour in English, but commas don\u2019t always occur where this intonation
    is found in speech and vice versa. The previous sentence is an example.) Symbols
    are something else entirely, and are kind of hard to define I guess.\r\n\r\nThere\u2019s
    a pretty good argument to be made for the use of \u02BC U+02BC Modifier Letter
    Apostrophe in English where we use apostrophes for contraction and possession:
    \u2039\u202Fdon\u02BCt\u202F\u203A and \u2039\u202Fdog\u02BCs\u202F\u203A. It
    is in essence an orthographic element that distinguishes different lexical items,
    and that\u2019s what we usually think of as a \u201Cletter\u201D even though the
    apostrophe doesn\u2019t have an independent sound of its own. But it\u2019s hard
    enough to get people to use \u2019 U+2019 Right Single Quotation Mark instead
    of ' U+0027 Apostrophe, so that asking people to differentiate the quotation \u2019
    and letter-apostrophe \u02BC is just tilting at windmills.\r\n\r\nAs for rock
    \u2019n\u2019 roll, I think it\u2019s best with the two apostrophes pointing the
    same way. Logically they are both apostrophes and not quotation marks, and English
    doesn\u2019t have an apostrophe that points in the other direction. (Actually
    I don\u2019t think any LGC orthography does, but I could be wrong). Writing \u2039\u202Frock
    \u2018n\u2019 roll\u202F\u203A makes me think at first that the \u2039\u202Fn\u202F\u203A
    is being scare-quoted."
  created: '2013-03-08 06:14:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice details and analysis. I think U+02BC is sounding pretty solid indeed.\r\n\r\nJust
    one thing:\r\n<blockquote>But it\u2019s hard enough to get people to use \u2019
    U+2019 Right Single Quotation Mark instead of ' U+0027 Apostrophe, so that asking
    people to differentiate the quotation \u2019 and letter-apostrophe \u02BC is just
    tilting at windmills.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt's not \"people\" that need to worry
    - they can't type anything more a \"dumb\" quote/apostrophe anyway; we need the
    software to automatically map to U+02BC (as best it can) as needed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-08 06:34:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Also, would German-localized versions of the quote glyphs solve
    the problem, or are language tags not well-supported?</em>\r\n\r\nThey are unevenly
    supported. Also, punctuation substitutions are unreliable in OpenType because
    there is a tendency in some software not to roll punctuation into glyph runs with
    adjacent text. Remember, OpenType Layout proceeds from script to language system
    to glyph, but the decision about what constitutes a character in a given script
    is made by the software, not by the font. Since a lot of punctuation is script-neutral,
    it can only pick up a script identity by algorithmic analysis of adjacent or surrounding
    text content. But that doesn't happen everywhere, while some software might simply
    presume common punctuation characters = Latin, which might help your German quote
    situation,  but is a pain in the neck when trying to e.g. kern tall Thai vowels
    to preceding quote marks or parentheses!\r\n\r\nWith regard to the German quote
    issue, the desirable form of the 'left quote' U+2018, i.e. the German closing
    quote, is a 180 degree rotated and raised form of the opening baseline quote with
    which it corresponds."
  created: '2013-03-08 17:06:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Great insights - thanks.\r\n\r\nBTW, every passing day, I like guillemets
    more.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-08 17:10:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John (Q):\r\n<blockquote>Back in the old days of ASCII, U+0060 was a grave
    accent only to the same extent as U+0022 was an umlaut and U+0027 was an acute
    accent. That is, one possible unconventional coding was to overstrike those characters,
    and have their shape altered on sophisticated systems, or their meaning recognized
    by humans for output fr0m unsophisticated ones, to attain accents.\r\n\r\nThat
    this exotic coding is now claimed as the primary meaning of the character in the
    Unicode standard... is, I suppose, possible, but if so it does not give me great
    confidence in the committee responsible.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou are confusing
    things by referring to U+0060, U+0022, etc. and then talking about ASCII. The
    prefix U+ indicates a Unicode codepoint, i.e. a character in the Unicode Standard,
    not some other standard. So it makes no sense to talk about e.g. U+0060 'back
    in the old days of ASCII'. The Unicode 'C0 Controls and Basic Latin' block provides
    a one-to-one mapping of Unicode characters to ASCII characters, which is not the
    same thing as <em>being</em> the ASCII standard. As you say, the ASCII standard
    deliberately enabled the interpretation of some codes as representing multiple
    characters. A principal -- and principle -- goal of Unicode's larger character
    set was to avoid such confusions, so I think the UTC was eminently sensible and
    responsible in assigning only one meaning to the Unicode character U+0060, allowing
    the other interpretations of the corresponding ASCII code to have their own unique
    Unicode assignments. I also think they made the right choice in selecting the
    spacing grave as the identity of this character given that the same block includes
    a corresponding spacing acute character, and the single quote character is handled
    as deliberately direction agnostic in almost all software -- note as a 'right
    single quote' and as a vertical glyph in almost all fonts, and there would be
    in any case no corresponding 'left double quote' if U+0060 were interpreted as
    a 'left single quote'.\r\n\r\nI still occassionally get emails from people that
    are punctuated like `this'. It is so obviously a mistake, I have to wonder what
    combination of software and font they might be using that doesn't display it as
    such, or if they are blind."
  created: '2013-03-08 17:20:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, that chaps my hide too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-08 17:54:42'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<blockquote>\r\nI have to wonder what combination of software and font they
    might be using that doesn't display it as such, or if they are blind.\r\n</blockquote>\r\nThat
    is the way to get the right thing in LaTeX. Also ``word'' gives the right double
    quotes.\r\n\r\nIf you want to get that behaviour in XeLaTeX, you need to specify
    <code>Mapping=tex-text</code> when setting the font, for instance:\r\n<code>\r\n\\setromanfont[Mapping=tex-text]{Chaparral
    Pro}\r\n</code>\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-08 17:54:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Smart quote software could be made smarter, to include a dictionary of "exceptions"
    such as the first apostrophe in rock 'n' roll. After all, look at the way the
    new Blackberry reads people's minds and finishes their sentences for them.
  created: '2013-03-08 20:02:40'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "I think the reason that\u2019s not caught on \u2013 outside of Microsoft
    Word, perhaps \u2013 is because you have to have a different set of exceptions
    for each language. If all you care about is English and French then it\u2019s
    not too hard, but once you start including even other big languages like Spanish,
    German, Dutch, and Italian you\u2019ve got a huge pile of databases to build and
    maintain."
  created: '2013-03-11 20:44:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\nOn considering the matter more, I can see that the Unicode
    Consortium decision probably was quite reasonable.\r\n\r\nI didn't want to start
    referring to Unicode ' as U+0027 and ASCII ' as X'27' as that would confuse people.\r\n\r\nSince
    ' was used as the only quote much more than ` and ' were used as paired quotes
    - ` was, and is, so little used that I kind of wish that codepoint were used for,
    say, the degree symbol - I can somewhat see the logic of using ` for a grave accent.\r\n\r\nBut
    that just felt wrong, simply because accents were far to exotic to be part of
    the primary 7-bit ASCII set. I also felt that ^ should never have been changed
    from the up-arrow, so useful as an exponentiation operator.\r\n\r\nThus, when
    ISO 8859-1 came along, with all those accented letters, but without desperately
    needed symbols such as \u2264, \u2265, and \u2260, I could only wonder what they
    were thinking. (On the other hand, placing \xD7 and \xF7 on codepoints obviously
    more suitable for \u0152 and \u0153 simply further compounded the insanity in
    the opposite direction. After all, * and / were perfectly good for multiplication
    and division, unless one was writing grade school arithmetic textbooks.)\r\n\r\nOf
    course, the whole world doesn't speak English. So a character set like ISO 8859-1
    was indeed a good idea. But it should have been the -2 set, as it were, in my
    opinion. There already were alternate versions of 7-bit ASCII for the major European
    languages; what would make sense from my perspective would have been to allow
    any of those to have a supplementary set of high-bit characters bolted on. (And,
    thus, characters likely to be replaced - @, [, \\, ], ^, _, `, {, |, }, ~ - would
    end up being copied/moved to the high-bit side) since, in general, after all,
    people only use one language at a time.\r\n\r\nAnd people who speak different
    languages clearly aren't able to communicate with each other, and so having the
    same character coding for areas where different languages are spoken... could
    wait until we went to 16 bits with Unicode (although, again, a set like 8859-1
    for the specialized and exotic purpose of international communication certainly
    would be of <em>some</em> use).\r\n\r\nOf course,  strange to relate, in Continental
    Europe, people don't share the view of people living in, say, North America or
    Australia that anyone who speaks a different language either lives thousands of
    miles away or is a poor immigrant who is going to be learning your language instead
    of the other way around - because of the disparity in the economic value of the
    effort required."
  created: '2013-03-12 02:13:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>For a while -thanks largely to ATF- mirrored quotes (where the left
    quotes point down) were quite common</cite>\r\n\r\nI thought that this depended
    on the typeface. In Bodoni, the left quote is a mirrored right quote, but in most
    other typefaces the left quote points up. So we're dealing with stylistic variants
    of the <em>same</em> character, which\r\n\r\na) must not be given separate Unicode
    codepoints (from one another), and\r\n\r\nb) means that the left quote character
    cannot be relied upon to be either up-pointing or mirrored down-pointing.\r\n\r\nWhich,
    incidentally, explains why the character used for the glottal stop in Hawai\u2018i
    <strong>must</strong> have a separate code point."
  created: '2015-04-02 14:54:09'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "The best use of U+0027 -- the single quote -- can vary with the type of font.
    \r\nFor a connected script I can't think of any other use than as the apostrophe.
    \r\nIf one sets the character width of U+0027 to zero  it can be used for an apostrophe
    that does not interrupt the smooth connections between the letters of the script.\r\nThe
    following is a connected script, as typed, with no kerning, no contextual alternates
    or ligatures. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Punctuation1_4789.jpg]\r\nThe
    idea here is to distinguish the apostrophe from both single and double quotes
    as much as possible and reduce the ambiguity faced by the reader when apostrophe,
    single and double quotes are stacked together.\r\nDon"
  created: '2015-04-02 23:53:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Differentiating from the apostrophe is why I made the quotes in my Cristaal
    all point up (they're also mirrored). But using guillemets is even better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2015-04-03 00:12:26'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "Perhaps the reader who is not a typoguru does not notice any of the fine
    points such as whether right quotes point up or down, but merely wants to avoid
    being confused by a proliferation of little marks around and within the words.
    Bad enough in a language like English which has few accents, but a real jungle
    where the Latin alphabet is encrusted with accents such as Polish or Vietnamese.\r\nAs
    for guillemets, they meet the distinctiveness test, but to the non-francophone
    world may not be recognized as quotes, and could be seen -- at least by anglophone
    readers -- as meaning double larger and double smaller.\r\nWell, it's time for
    a nap in the famous bed of the ancient Greek Procrustes.\r\nDon"
  created: '2015-04-03 01:08:08'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote><p>guillemets [\u2026] to the non-francophone world may not be
    recognized as quotes</p></blockquote>\r\nIf by \u201Cnon-francophone\u201D you
    mean \u201Canglophone\u201D:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Guillemet#Uses"
  created: '2015-04-03 01:40:08'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "Impressive list of the guillemet-o-sphere.\r\nTo shift emphasis from quotes
    back to the apostrophe, it's interesting to observe that the appropriate use of
    the apostrophe is moot in places like Qu\xE9bec where the language police prosecute
    and obtain convictions against businesses that use apostrophes in their signs.\r\nPerhaps
    the use of the apostrophe is another anglophone exceptional case?\r\nEnglish certainly
    has picky rules about the use of the apostrophe. In the sentence above I used
    an apostrophe to show the contraction of \"it is\" but I would not have used it
    to show that something is possessed by \"it.\" I would have been required to use
    the formula: The Sahara is hot, its climate is also dry.\r\nDon"
  created: '2015-04-03 10:43:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What bothers me in English is that quite often when an apostrophe is used
    to contract an \"is\" it often looks like a possessive at first and you end up
    having to backtrack.\r\n\r\nBTW in Armenian we use the apostrophe (\"abatarts\")
    for omitting a single letter, the \u2013now archaic\u2013 \"badiv\" for abbreviating
    words, and \u2013my favorite\u2013 the \"boot\" for omitting multiple (implied)
    words.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2015-04-03 15:31:39'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "I reading a language like German, which does not use the apostrophe for possessive
    nouns,  I generally have no difficulty in understanding that when a noun ends
    in an _s_ I should expect it to be possessive.\r\n\r\nBut, unlike English, German
    does not rely on the terminal _s_ to state that a noun is plural -- plural nouns
    are preceded by _die_ and generally have a different ending than the singular
    noun. However the preceding _die_ can also be confusing because the same _die_
    is used for feminine nouns. This is only the tip of the iceburg in the complexity
    of German syntax, which is a barrier to persons attempting to learn German, although
    probably minor compared to the uncertainty of a run-on sentence that waits for
    the action verb to finally be disclosed at its conclusion. By comparison, English
    is a walk in the park -- nouns lack any attribute of gender and the verb usually
    pops up near the start of a sentence.\r\n\r\nThe moral for the grammar of various
    languages is that there is no free lunch.  Simplification fights with complexity,
    formal consistency, unambiguity etc.\r\n\r\nIn English, _Johns school_ means a
    school for Johns, i.e. a school to re-educate men who purchase the services of
    sex-trade workers, while _John's school_ means the school that John attends, or
    owns.\r\n\r\nI suppose, that in English at least, we are stuck with continuing
    to use the apostrophe.\r\n\r\nDon"
  created: '2015-04-03 16:30:20'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'll have to admit that the fact that the posessive \"its\" doesn't take
    an apostrophe is annoying to me, since that means the pronoun it doesn't follow
    the same rules as ordinary nouns.\r\n\r\nThat it would happen to be spelled exactly
    the same as the contraction for \"it is\", though, doesn't bother me, as context
    makes it unambiguous in any case (or there would be a problem with the two words
    in speech).\r\n\r\nHowever, at one point, I proposed that a period might be used
    in the middle of a word to indicate where two vowels together are two separate
    vowel sounds instead of a dipthong - so that one didn't have to use the apostrophe
    for that purpose as well, as in Mont Follick's proposed phonetic spelling. So
    using a different unambiguous character for the possessive isn't a <em>bad</em>
    idea; of course, the problem is that we don't have any suitable alternate characters
    conveniently available.\r\n\r\nThat is, something like Bill\"s tricycle, or Bill,s
    tricycle, or Bill/s tricycle would be too jarring and too visually distracting...
    and Bill`s tricycle works on computer keyboards, but not on classic typewriters.\r\n\r\nBill(s)
    tricycle wouldn't do either as that construction has a different, existing meaning.
    Of course, there are other constructs... BillS tricycle? Maybe with a small capital
    S in print... Bill:s tricycle? Bill-s tricycle?\r\n\r\nOf course, we could stick
    with Bill's tricycle in ordinary typing, and in print, where there are more character
    choices, do the posessive this way: Bill\u2032s tricycle, with a prime, to indicate
    we're not using an apostrophe to dig into the word to remove a letter.\r\n\r\nWhen
    a word ends in s, whether or not it is a plural, an apostrophe following the s
    indicates the possessive, although one can omit the apostrophe if one uses the
    noun as an adjective - English, without case endings and a drastically simplified
    verb conjugation, lends itself to functional change."
  created: '2015-04-03 20:00:21'
date: '2013-03-06 20:26:59'
title: "Rock \u2019n\u2019 Roll: correct apostrophe usage"

---
