---
author:
  name: gohebrew
  picture: 112525
body: "The ancient Talmud is as old as the Jewish Bible. According one of the greatest
  thinkers of all times, the Talmud actually corresponds to the Bible, and explains
  to us the meaning of the very words and innuendos.\r\n\r\nMaimonides writes this
  in the Introduction to his final work, called: \u05DE\u05E9\u05E0\u05D4 \u05EA\u05D5\u05E8\u05D4,
  which means a concise review of everything found in the Torah, or Bible.\r\n\r\nDuring
  his generation, Maimonides was cast as a heretic for suggesting that his work could
  an easy to read summary of the encyclopedic Talmud. Later, all his writings, from
  medical, philosophical, mathematical, and Talmudic, were recognized until this very
  day as truthful, unrefutable, and utterly amazing. Few humans that have walked this
  earth can compare to Maimonides, including, Jesus, Einstein, and contemporary Jewish
  leaders.\r\n\r\nGetting back to the Talmud, the Talmud is consideration the most
  profound wisdom of the Jewish people, being comprised of the writings and teachings
  of the most brilliant 1% of Jewish leaders of all times.\r\n\r\nEven the very great
  reconstructionist, reform, conservative, or even modern Orthodox have never made
  it into the Talmud. They simply are not great and profound enough to fit into the
  ranks of the Talmud's greatest 'stars'.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "The Romm Talmud was an outgrowth of the earlier Shlavita Talmud of the late
    18th century, printed in Poland by two brothers, the sons of a very great Chassidic
    rabbi. It was originally financed by the Baron Gansbourg, himself a reknown Chassidic
    Jew, and extremely wealthy.\r\n\r\nThe Romm family itself were also extremely
    wealthy, and thought that they did not need any benefactor to produce the first
    edition of the Talmud. \r\n\r\nThe first edition of the Talmud took seven years
    to produce before the the Romm family went totally bankrupt, and had their dream
    of producing a Lithuanian Talmud absolutely shattered. The Romm family did not
    know what to do. The Talmud was not completed, and they became paupers.\r\n\r\nThe
    Romm family then consulted with the sons of the Vilna Gaon and the great Rabbi
    Akiva Eiger, the Vilna's Gaon's brilliant son-in-law, and Rabbi Chaim Halevy,
    the Voloziner (not to confused with his grandson, Rabbi Chaim the Beis Levy of
    Volozhim, later known simply as the Grach). They advised to approach the greatest
    and richest benefactors, particularly my great-grandfather's great-father, Rabbi
    Boruch Halevy Zeldovich zatzal, Mr. Horenstein zal, and Rabbi Gurary zatzal, even
    though they were Lubavitchers and members of the hated Ket, or cult.\r\n\r\nGurary
    paid for the binding, and distribution. Horenstein and others finished paid for
    the typesetting. And Zeldovich who had a massive wood and paper enterprise sold
    the Romm family an exclusive contact for all their future paper needs, with a
    100 year payment plan. In exchange for a graphic dedication depicting two lions,
    representing Boruch and his brother Rabbi Dovber Halevy, Zeldovich shipped to
    the Romm family the best possible paper, representing about 60% of the Romm family's
    overall cost to produce the Talmud."
  created: '2013-03-20 06:21:06'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Recently, a new generation of intelligent people, who claim to be scholars
    (and they truly are scholars in their own eyes,) has risen up and assert that
    they are experts about the printing of the Romm family Talmud, and the typeface
    technology that was employed about 200 years ago.\r\n\r\nTheir statements are
    ludicrous, suggesting that they either do not know how to read Hebrew (to be facetious.
    they are truly great Talmud experts who read the ArtScroll Talmud in English),
    or never even read the account published in back of the every printing of a complete
    Romm Talmud or in the beginning of the famous Meorus Talmud.\r\n\r\nWhat is source
    of the ridiculous words? Wikipedia?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Yaronimus-Maximus
      picture: 110981
    body: would you care to elaborate - what kind of ludicrous statements are being
      said by the new generation of intelligent people?
    created: '2013-04-04 00:31:27'
  created: '2013-03-21 02:30:44'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "There is a historical account of how the previous Talmud was produced by
    the Romm family in ~Vilna, Lithuania, during the early 19th century.\r\n\r\nThis
    is published at the end of the 20th volume in the Hebrew language, known appropriately
    as the \"Acharit Davar\", which means \"The Latter Matter\".\r\n\r\nRecently,
    scholars by their own perception have suggested a fantasy account of these matters
    which contradicts those which are reported by the children of the publishers themselves
    in the English language. These so-called scholars assume that their readers do
    not study the Talmud in its original, not even read Hebrew. As a result, they
    advance their nonsense as if were a great work of scholarship.\r\n\r\nIn my view,
    these so-called scholars harm both the stature of modern scholarship, and their
    very intelligent readership.\r\n\r\nI think the very first step of true scholarship
    about the history of the printing of the Talmud in Vilna, Lithuania, is read the
    writings of the account printed by the Romm family, in the Romm Vilna Talmud."
  created: '2013-05-19 22:17:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Recently, scholars by their own perception have suggested a fantasy account
    of these matters which contradicts those which are reported by the children of
    the publishers themselves in the English language.</em>\r\n\r\nIsrael, you have
    not said either who these scholars are or what it is that they have said that
    is so wrong or ridiculous. Without citing references to which the rest of us can
    refer, you give us no way to understand about what you are talking or to what
    you are objecting. Which is a pity, because it all sounds quite interesting."
  created: '2013-05-26 00:49:30'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "John: \"Israel, you have not said either who these scholars are or what it
    is that they have said that is so wrong or ridiculous.\"\r\n\"Without citing references
    to which the rest of us can refer, you give us no way to understand about what
    you are talking or to what you are objecting.\"\r\n\r\nOK, I am sorry for being
    vague.\r\nLet me do some due diligence.\r\nOK, on the next post, I cite the article. "
  created: '2013-05-26 20:20:41'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Suggested Reading\r\nSamuel Shraga Feigensohn, \u201CLe-Toldot Defus Rom,\u201D
    in Yahadut Lita, vol. 1, pp. 268\u2013302 (Tel Aviv, 1960); Bernhard (\u1E24ayim
    Dov) Friedberg, Toldot ha-defus ha-\u2018ivri be-Polanyah (Tel Aviv, 1950), pp.
    99, 125\u2013131; Zeev Gries, Ha-Sefer ke-sokhen tarbut ba-shanim 460\u2013660
    (1700\u20131900) (Tel Aviv, 2002), pp. 117\u2013126, 133\u2013134, 179\u2013180,
    also in English as The Book in the Jewish World, 1700\u20131900 (Oxford, 2007),
    pp. 113\u2013123, 129\u2013130, 173; Pin\u1E25as Kahn, \u201C\u2018Al devar ha-defus
    shel Rom be-Vilnah,\u201D Kiryat sefer 10 (1933\u20131934): 249\u2013250; Pin\u1E25as
    Kahn, \u201CLe-Korot Bet ha-Defus shel Rom be-Vilnah,\u201D Kiryat sefer 12 (1935\u20131936):
    109\u2013115; \u1E24ayim Lieberman, \u201C\u2018Al defus ha-\u2018almanah veha-a\u1E25im
    Rom,\u201D Kiryat Sefer 34 (1959): 527\u2013528; Raphael Nathan Neta Rabbinovicz,
    Ma\u2019amar \u2018al hadpasat ha-Talmud; Toldot hadpasat ha-Talmud (Jerusalem,
    1951/52), pp. 134\u2013135, 156\u2013180, 223\u2013245, 250.\r\n\r\nAuthor\r\nZeev
    Gries\r\n\r\nTranslation\r\nTranslated from Hebrew by Jeffrey Green"
  created: '2013-05-26 20:22:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "These are important publications:\r\n\r\nSamuel Shraga Feigensohn\r\n\u201CLe-Toldot
    Defus Rom,\u201D in Yahadut Lita\r\n(Tel Aviv, 1960)\r\nvol. 1, pp. 268\u2013302\r\n\r\nBernhard
    (\u1E24ayim Dov) Friedberg\r\nToldot ha-defus ha-\u2018ivri be-Polanyah\r\n(Tel
    Aviv, 1950)\r\npp. 99, 125\u2013131\r\n\r\nZeev Gries\r\nHa-Sefer ke-sokhen tarbut
    ba-shanim 460\u2013660 (1700\u20131900)\r\n(Tel Aviv, 2002)\r\npp. 117\u2013126,
    133\u2013134, 179\u2013180\r\n\r\nalso in English as\r\nThe Book in the Jewish
    World, 1700\u20131900\r\n(Oxford, 2007), pp. 113\u2013123, 129\u2013130, 173\r\n\r\nPin\u1E25as
    Kahn\r\n\u201C\u2018Al devar ha-defus shel Rom be-Vilnah,\u201D\r\nKiryat sefer
    10 (1933\u20131934): 249\u2013250\r\n\r\nPin\u1E25as Kahn\r\n\u201CLe-Korot Bet
    ha-Defus shel Rom be-Vilnah,\u201D \r\nKiryat sefer 12 (1935\u20131936): 109\u2013115;
    \r\n\r\n\u1E24ayim Lieberman\r\n\u201C\u2018Al defus ha-\u2018almanah veha-a\u1E25im
    Rom,\u201D \r\nKiryat Sefer 34 (1959): 527\u2013528; \r\n\r\nRaphael Nathan Neta
    Rabbinovicz, \r\nMa\u2019amar \u2018al hadpasat ha-Talmud; \r\nToldot hadpasat
    ha-Talmud \r\n(Jerusalem, 1951/52)\r\npp. 134\u2013135, 156\u2013180, 223\u2013245,
    250."
  created: '2013-05-26 20:34:33'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: Please post these articles. Apparently, the sources may be compromised, or
    I may have misunderstood my own source material, actually printed in Vol. 20 of
    the Romm Talmud. But why was this important document not cited?
  created: '2013-05-26 21:49:21'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Note: Many hundreds of different editions of the classic Babylonian Talmud
    were published over the years since the conclusion of World War II.\r\n\r\nThe
    largest in size is known as the \"Chosen Shas\", named after the very old custom
    for the father of the bride to gift a large beautiful set as a wedding gift to
    his new son-in-law. There are many other smaller sets used by yeshiva students,
    and other adults in their Talmud studies. Not all of these smaller sets have included
    the \"Acharis Davar\", written by the Romm descendents, cited earlier.\r\n\r\nPerhaps,
    in their jealous research, this important document was neglected by honest error,
    and not by intentional rewriting of history, as I earlier suspected.\r\n\r\nI
    found most questionable in this information presented as factual is that much
    of it, if not all of it, is composed and published long after the events occurred.
    If so, are they not theories and speculations, and not actual facts?"
  created: '2013-05-26 22:48:28'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "http://printingthetalmud.org/essays/10.pdf\r\n\r\nThe \u201CVilna Shas\u201D
    and East European Jewry\r\nby Michael Stanislawski \r\n\r\nI N 1880 the first
    volumes of an extraordinary edition of the Babylonian Talmud were\r\npublished
    in Vilna, the center of rabbinic learning in eastern Europe for almost half a\r\nmillenium.
    Known colloquially as the \u201CVilna Shas\u201D \r\n(the latter term an acronym
    for shishah sedarim, literally the six orders of the Mishnah, but\r\nused since
    the late-sixteenth century to refer to the entire Talmud), \r\n\r\nthis edition,
    published by the firm\r\nof \u201CThe Widow and Brothers Romm\u201D and completed
    in 1886, has been used to this day throughout\r\nthe Jewish world as the authoritative,
    traditional edition of the Talmud and its commentaries.1\r\n\r\n1. The most important\r\nstudy
    of the history of the\r\npublication of the Talmud,\r\nincluding the Slavuta and\r\nVilna
    editions, remains\r\nRaphael Rabbinovicz,\r\nMaamar al Hadpasat ha-\r\nTalmud
    (Munich, 1877).\r\nThis was supplemented\r\nby the posthumously published\r\nmemoir
    of the director\r\nof the Romm Press, in\r\nYahadut Lita (Jerusalem,\r\n1960),
    which also contains\r\nthe editor\u2019s bibliographical\r\ncitations of other
    twentieth-\r\ncentury studies on the\r\nRomm Talmud. Very valuable,\r\ntoo, is
    the entry on\r\n\u201CRomm\u201D in the Russian-\r\nJewish encyclopedia, Evreiskaia\r\nEntsiklopediia
    (St.\r\nPetersburg, n.d.), vol.13, pp.\r\n602\u2013603.\r\n\r\nThe Vilna Shas
    followed the classic layout of the printed Talmud, with the text of the Talmud\u2014\r\nboth
    the Mishnah and the Gemara\u2014in the center of the page, and with commentaries
    running\r\ndown the length of both margins. Within these margins and at the back
    of the volumes of each tractate\r\nthere appeared an unprecedented number of rabbinic
    exegeses, glosses, and interpolations to\r\nthe ancient text, ranging in time
    and place from tenth-century Kairouan, Tunisia, to mid-nineteenthcentury\r\nPosen,
    Germany. Thus, although the Talmud is usually spoken of as having been completed\r\n(or
    \u201Csealed\u201D) in the sixth century, it in fact remained the site of a continuing
    conversation\r\namong Jewish scholars lasting to our very times, most recently
    aided and abetted\r\nby new computer technologies that were inconceivable even
    a decade ago.2\r\n\r\n2. See for example, www.\r\ne-daf.com, which allows\r\none
    to access any page of\r\nthe Talmud in its original\r\nformat, as well as an English\r\ntranslation
    of the page.\r\n\r\nThe story of how the Vilna Shas appeared, the controversy
    surrounding it, and the\r\nhistory of the Romm publishing house as a whole, is
    but one crucial episode in the\r\nlong and fascinating history of the printing
    of the Talmud\u2014a tale full of mystery\r\nand intrigue, as well as remarkable
    scholarship and piety. The inventiveness and\r\ningenuity of the fifteenth-century
    German Catholic Johann Gutenberg and his successors\r\nmade possible a reality
    that the leaders of rabbinic Jewry in earlier centuries\r\nhad only dreamt of
    in their wildest dreams\u2014the spread of talmudic study not only\r\namong the
    learned elite, but also to the broad spectrum of the (male) laity of Jewish\r\nsociety.
    With the advent of printing, the rabbinic dictum, \u201Cve-talmud Torah ke-neged\r\nkulam\u201D
    (conventionally interpreted as \u201Cthe study of Torah is equal to all the other\r\ncommandments\u201D),
    was now within the reach of multitudes of Jews throughout the\r\nworld, including
    the lands of eastern Europe, which from the sixteenth century on\r\nconstituted
    by far the largest Jewish community in the world.\r\n\r\nThe Jews of eastern Europe
    were also the most politically secure Jewish community\r\nin Christendom, enjoying
    the support of the Polish monarchy against pressures\r\nboth domestic and foreign,
    including the attacks on the Talmud from the Vatican\r\nand, by extension, the
    Polish Catholic Church. Thus, the papal assault on the Talmud\r\nthat began in
    1553, and which led to the burning of the Talmud in Rome two years\r\nlater, was
    responded to in Lublin by the publication of a new edition of the Talmud\r\nin
    1559. This enterprise lasted a decade and a half, but resulted (for reasons we
    do\r\nnot know) in only two tractates being issued. To the best of our knowledge,
    in the second half of the\r\nsixteenth century, Polish-Lithuanian Jews were, like
    their brethren in other lands, using the several\r\nexcellent editions of the
    Talmud published in Salonika and Constantinople, far outside the orbit of\r\nthe
    Roman Catholic Church.\r\n\r\nYet these editions were soon outdone by the first
    east European publication of the entire, and\r\nunexpurgated, Talmud, issued in
    Cracow in 1602\u20131605, with a second edition published in 1616\u2013\r\n1620.
    This milestone of east European Jewish publishing history remained in use throughout
    the\r\nworld, even as its homeland was devastated. At precisely this time, the
    region experienced wave after\r\nwave of violence, culminating in the 1648 Cossack
    uprising led by Bogdan Chmielnicki in which\r\nhundreds of thousands of Jews and
    Poles were slaughtered. This was followed by multiple invasions\r\nfrom Russia,
    Sweden, and other powers. In these di\xA5cult decades, known in Poland as the
    \u201CDeluge,\u201D\r\nit is not surprising that there were no new editions of
    the Talmud published in eastern Europe, as\r\nopposed to the relatively more peaceful
    west, which produced the important Amsterdam (1644\u2013\r\n1648 and 1714\u20131719),
    Frankfurt-am-Oder (1697\u20131699), and Frankfurt-am-Main (1720\u20131722)\r\neditions
    of the Talmud. These printings were in large measure based on the earlier Cracow
    editions,\r\nand thereby obviated the need for a new, east European edition.\r\n\r\nBy
    the turn of the nineteenth century, the twin dynamics of Talmud printing came
    into play once\r\nmore. There was the need for an intersection of a su\xA5cient
    body of new commentaries deemed\r\nauthoritative (and all-but canonical) to be
    included either on the margins of the Talmud text itself\r\nor in appendices to
    the main text. Equally crucial was the existence of economic, political, and religious\r\nrealities
    that made a new publication of the Talmud possible. Thus, right at the\r\nstart
    of the nineteenth century, a new edition of the Talmud was printed in Slavuta,\r\nUkraine,
    in 1801\u20131806, 1808\u20131813, and 1817\u20131822, and a competing edition
    in\r\nVilna in 1835.3\r\n\r\n3. My remarks on the Slavuta\r\nPress and its Talmud
    follow\r\nShaul Ginzburg\u2019s essay, \u201CTsu\r\nder geshikhte fun der yidisher\r\ndrukvezn,\u201D
    in his Historishe\r\nVerk (New York, 1937), vol.1,\r\npp. 48\u201362. His popularized\r\nseries
    on the subject, published\r\nin the late 1930\u2019s in the\r\nForverts, has recently
    been\r\ntranslated into English as Saul\r\nMoissevich Ginsburg, The\r\nSlavuta
    Drama, translated\r\nfrom the Yiddish by Ephraim\r\nH. Prombaum with introductory\r\nand
    concluding remarks,\r\nglossary, and suggested readings\r\n(Lanham: University\r\nPress
    of America, 1991).\r\nAlthough clearly an act of\r\nfilial piety by a descendant
    of\r\nthe Shapira family, this translation\r\nis a further popularization\r\nof
    an already popularized\r\ntext, and should be used with\r\nthis in mind.\r\n\r\nBehind
    these raw facts, however, there lies a compelling and to some extent mysterious\r\ndrama.
    First and foremost, by the time the Slavuta Talmud first appeared,\r\nthe political
    conditions that had existed for the previous centuries were no longer\r\nextant.
    The Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth was destroyed by its three powerful\r\nneighbors,
    Russia, Austria, and Prussia, in the partitions of Poland of 1772, 1793,\r\nand
    1795. Thus, the area in which approximately a million and a half Jews resided\r\nwas
    now annexed to the Russian Empire, the Habsburg Empire, and the growing\r\nPrussian
    state. This political change, and especially the fact that now the largest\r\nand
    most rapidly growing Jewish population in the world was under the control\r\nof
    the Russian tsars, was to have far-reaching implications on all aspects of Jewish\r\nlife,
    including the history of Talmud publishing. At the very same time, the internal\r\nlife
    of east European Jewry was utterly transformed by the religious and spiritual\r\nrevolution
    brought about by the rise of \xD3asidism, which spread rapidly from its\r\norigins
    and base in the Ukrainian lands to all other regions of eastern Europe,\r\nincluding
    Congress Poland, Belorussia, and Lithuania. As is well known, even the\r\nbans
    of excommunication levied against the \xF2asidim by the rabbinic leadership of\r\nLithuanian
    and Belorussian Jewry, including the greatest talmudic authority of the age, Elijah
    Gaon\r\nof Vilna (1720\u20131797), ultimately had little e\u221Aect.\r\n\r\nParadoxically,
    perhaps, the victory of \xD3asidism is evidenced by the fact that its opponents
    now\r\ncame to be called mitnagdim (opponents) by both groups, the clear implication
    being that \xD3asidism\r\nwas in late-twentieth-century parlance the default position
    of east European Jewry.4 \r\n\r\n4. This was entirely parallel\r\nto the adoption,
    several\r\ncenturies earlier, of the term\r\n\u201CProtestant\u201D by those who\r\nrebelled
    against the Roman\r\nCatholic Church. They were\r\nfirst derided as those who
    protest\u2014\r\nthe protestants\u2014and\r\nthen came to call themselves\r\nby
    this very same term.\r\n\r\nTo what extent\r\n\xD3asidism\u2019s many theological
    and sociological innovations derived from or caused a diminution of\r\nthe role
    of Talmud study in traditional Jewish life has been a subject of scholarly analysis
    and debate\r\nfor more than a century.5 \r\n\r\n5. See the excellent collection\r\nof
    articles on \xD3asidism\r\nedited by Gershon Hundert,\r\nEssential Papers on Hasidism:\r\nOrigins
    to Present (New York:\r\nNYU Press, 1991).\r\n\r\nWhat seems clear is that two
    processes were taking place simultaneously,\r\nwhich appear at first to be contradictory
    but were in fact actually complementary. On the one hand,\r\nit is indisputable
    that the core of \xF2asidic theology in its many manifestations and permutations\r\nregarded
    mystical experience and theosophical teachings as the highest stages of religious
    life, leading\r\nto the greatest goal of all, union with, or cleavage to, the
    divine. Most revolutionary was the possibility\r\nthat this salvific state could
    be reached by ordinary (though once again, only male) Jews, and\r\nnot simply
    by the elite that had throughout Jewish history studied not only the Talmud and
    other\r\nhalakhic works, but also mystical and esoteric Jewish texts. However,
    the rabbinical elite through the\r\ncenturies had clearly understood the danger
    posed by mystical exegeses of the Bible and other sacred\r\ntexts. Teachings that
    asserted that the meaning of a word or the fulfillment of a commandment were\r\nto
    be found not in their obvious definition or performance, but rather in their esoteric
    interpretation\r\nor motivation, could undermine the very foundations of rabbinic
    civilization, leading to nonnormative,\r\nand even antinomian, behavior. Therefore,
    they limited the study of Kabbalah and the\r\nperformance of mystic rites to those
    already ensconsed within the talmudically-trained elite. Even\r\nthen further
    guidelines were established permitting access to this realm of knowledge only
    to those\r\nwho were, among other things, married and over forty years old. Thus,
    the very core of the \xF2asidic\r\nrevolution, the popularization of kabbalistic
    study and mystic observance, not only departed from\r\nprevious traditions, but
    also invariably led to a diminution of traditional talmudic study in \xF2asidic\r\nJudaism.
    \u201CTalmud Torah,\u201D as previously understood, hardly remained \u201Cke-neged
    kulam.\u201D This displacement\r\nof the ontological status of Talmud study has
    often been misunderstood or deliberately\r\nmischaracterized as a \u201Cdemocratization\u201D
    of Judaism. Not only was the concept\r\nof democracy unknown to the leaders of
    \xD3asidism (and extraordinarily di\xA5cult,\r\nif not impossible, to conceive
    of in regard to women), it was also utterly belied by\r\nperhaps the central tenet
    of \xD3asidism. This core sociological innovation was the\r\nbelief that there
    was a special type of Jew, the tzaddik, who by divine selection was\r\nempowered
    with extraordinary supernatural powers and wisdom unobtainable to\r\nthe average
    man. Indeed the role of the tzaddik was precisely to serve as spiritual\r\nmaster
    to ordinary Jews, who were charged with emulating, as far as was possible,\r\ntheir
    master\u2019s teachings and actions. Crucial was the fact that these teachings
    did\r\nnot need to be, and generally were not, based on talmudic or other rabbinic
    texts\r\nexpertly interpreted. Many \xF2asidic masters were not, and never pretended
    to be,\r\ntalmudically trained; and many were never ordained as rabbis, as opposed
    to their\r\ncharismatic status as \u201Crebbes.\u201D\r\n\r\nAs \xD3asidism spread
    and conquered vast segments of east European Jewry, it became as much a\r\npart
    of the \u201Cestablishment\u201D of east European Jewry as rabbinic Judaism, and
    not surprisingly, its\r\nmore radically kabbalistic and anti-intellectual trends
    were significantly muted. Indeed, the appearance\r\nof the Slavuta Talmud in 1791
    already signaled the possibility of the intersection of \xD3asidism\r\nand Talmud
    study. Not only was Slavuta located in the heart of the overwhelmingly \xF2asidic
    Ukraine,\r\nbut the founder of this press, Moses Shapira, was the son of the great
    \xF2asidic master, Rabbi Pin\xF2as\r\nof Korets (1726\u20131791), who himself
    hailed from the more rationalist north but soon became one of\r\nthe most devout
    and enthusiastic adherents and masters of the new movement. It was only natural\r\nfor
    the Slavuta press to publish, alongside the Talmud and other halakhic, homiletic,
    and liturgical\r\nworks, hundreds of \xF2asidic titles, covering the entire spectrum
    of \xF2asidic genres, from simple (or\r\nseemingly simple) tales of rebbes to
    the most arcane and esoteric mystical texts, including the Zohar.\r\nThis extraordinary
    publishing e\u221Aort contributed, in turn, to the popularization of \xF2asidic
    beliefs\r\nand practices, including the acceptance by a large proportion of east
    European Jews of the so-called\r\nLurianic liturgy (Nusa\xF2 ha-Ari), spread through
    the publication of prayerbooks. In and of itself,\r\nthis liturgical departure
    from the centuries-old traditions of Polish-Lithuanian-Ukrainian Jewry was\r\none
    of the cardinal points condemned as heresy by the mitnagdic leaders from the late-eighteenth\r\ncentury
    on. This essentially became more widely accepted as \xD3asidism spread throughout
    eastern\r\nEuropean Jewry.\r\n\r\nThus, by the 1820\u2019s, the battle between
    the mitnagdim and the \xF2asidim had all but died down, but\r\nthere were still
    many cases of mitnagdic figures denouncing \xD3asidism to the Russian and Austrian\r\ngovernments
    as a dangerous, superstitious, radical, and untrustworthy sect. \xD3asidim answered
    in\r\nkind with denunciations of the mitnagdic leaders to the tsarist regime,
    usually on the count of corruption\r\nof the communal leadership, and especially
    fraudulent management of taxes and military\r\nconscription. Russian authorities
    confessed that they saw no essential di\u221Aerence between one brand\r\nof Jews
    and another; they were all perfidious enemies of Christianity, and hence were
    to be treated\r\nthe same. It was only far later in the nineteenth and the beginning
    of the twentieth century that\r\nthere emerged an unstated coalition between the
    tsarist regime and representatives of traditionalist\r\nJudaism in Russia, both
    \xF2asidic and mitnagdic, as they faced the revolutionary movements so prevalent\r\namong
    the Jews.\r\n\r\nFrom the 1820\u2019s on, however, followers of the nascent Haskalah,
    the Hebrew Enlightenment\r\nmovement, entered into the fray. They attacked \xD3asidism
    with even greater fervor than the traditionalist\r\nmitnagdim, and sent petition
    after petition both to the provincial and central governments\r\ncondemning the
    \xF2asidim as obscurantist and dangerous fanatics. Indeed, in the second quarter
    of the\r\nnineteenth century it was often di\xA5cult to distinguish between mitnagdim
    and maskilim, and this\r\nconfusion was especially important in the realm of access
    to printing presses and publishers.\r\nBy this time, there were a remarkable number
    of printing presses and publishers among eastern\r\nEuropean Jewry, from Vilna
    in the north, Warsaw in the center, and Odessa in the south. Of these\r\nHebrew
    publishers, only one dared to confront the Slavuta press on its most prestigious
    turf, the\r\npublication of the Talmud. In 1789, the Romm press was founded in
    Grodno (its actual plant was\r\nin a village outside town) by Barukh ben Yosef
    Romm. This press soon became famous throughout\r\n100 p ri n t i ng t h e tal
    m u d: f rom bom be rg to sc hot t e nst e i n\r\nthe Jewish scholarly world for
    its many publications of halakhic and homiletic, but decidedly not\r\n\xF2asidic,
    works. Following its move to Vilna in 1799, and under the ownership of the founder\u2019s
    son,\r\nMena\xF2em Mann Romm, the Romm publishing house embarked on a period of
    astonishing growth\r\nand prestige, merging with and acquiring several other publishing
    houses in Vilna, Grodno, and\r\nenvirons. Now, alongside its halakhic and homiletic
    works, the Romm publishing house began to\r\nprint maskilic books as well, albeit
    those approved by local rabbinic figures.\r\nIn 1835, the appearance of the first
    Romm Talmud led to a fierce battle with the Slavuta press and\r\nthe Shapira family,
    which claimed that the Romms had infringed upon their rabbinically endorsed\r\nmonopoly
    on publishing the Talmud. Soon, a war of rabbinic opinions ensued, with literally
    hundreds\r\nof rabbis involved on both sides, and with no clear resolution possible.
    The outcome of this\r\nfight came from a distinctly di\u221Aerent source, the
    Russian government. First, the body of one of the\r\nworkers at the Slavuta press
    was discovered in its plant. The Shapira family claimed that this was\r\na tragic
    suicide, but others believed it to be a murder, since the worker in question had
    allegedly\r\ndenounced his bosses for publishing books without the permission
    of the local state censor. A formal\r\ninquiry was launched, which led to the
    conviction of the Shapira brothers, their subjection to corporal\r\npunishment,
    and their banishment to Siberia. The famous Slavuta Hebrew publishing house\r\nwas
    no more.\r\n\r\nThis cause c\xE9l\xE8bre contributed to the decision of the Russian
    government to shut down all the\r\nexisting Hebrew presses in the Empire as a
    means of better controlling the obviously fractious Jewish\r\npopulation. The
    monopoly on Hebrew (and Yiddish) publishing was then assigned to two publishing\r\nhouses,
    one in Vilna and one in Kiev, to service the mitnagdic-cum-maskilic north and
    the \xF2asidic\r\nsouth.6 \r\n\r\n6. On this decision, as well\r\nas the overall
    policy of the\r\nRussian government regarding\r\nthe Jews, see my Tsar\r\nNicholas
    I and the Jews: The\r\nTransformation of Jewish\r\nSociety in Russia, 1825\u20131855\r\n(Philadelphia:
    Jewish\r\nPublication Society, 1983).\r\n\r\n These monopolies were to be funded
    by a bidding process in which the winning firm would\r\nagree to pay a stipulated
    tax to the government, raised from the already existing candle and koshermeat\r\ntaxes,
    as well as by tari\u221As on Hebrew and Yiddish books imported from abroad. Since
    the\r\nreading audience of east European Jews was enormous\u2014the population
    grew from one and a half\r\nmillion in 1800 to approximately six million by the
    end of the century\u2014obtaining these monopolies\r\nwas a guarantee of very
    substantial income. Not surprisingly, the Vilna monopoly was successfully\r\nbid
    for and obtained by the Romm family. However, all was not well for this family,
    as their plant\r\nburned down (for reasons unknown) in 1840. Nevertheless, the
    brothers Romm (now led by Yosef\r\nand then by his son David) persisted and rebuilt
    an even larger and more modern publishing house.\r\nDavid Romm died in 1862, and
    his place was taken, rather remarkably for this patriarchal society,\r\nby his
    widow Deborah. The name of the firm changed to the \u201CWidow and Brothers Romm.\u201D\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    in the south, the site of the one legal Hebrew publishing house was\r\nquite sensibly
    moved by the government from Kiev, which at this time had a very\r\nsmall legal
    Jewish population due to the restriction of Jewish settlement in the\r\ncity.
    It was moved to Zhitomir, which was far more central to the huge Ukrainian\r\nJewish
    population and, not coincidentally, the site of the second governmentsponsored\r\nRabbinical
    Seminary (the first was in Vilna). Given this de facto connection\r\nbetween the
    Rabbinical Seminary and the projected publishing house,\r\nthe prospect of entering
    into a formal relationship with the Russian government\r\nwas anathema to the
    \xF2asidic leaders. The Seminary\u2019s book publishing needs were su\xA5ciently
    met\r\nby the Hebrew presses across the various borders in Warsaw, Lemberg, and
    Czernowitz, where new\r\neditions of the Talmud were printed as well.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    none of these editions could compete with the Vilna Shas, which soon added commentaries\r\nthat
    only increased its centrality to traditional Jewish learning across the world.
    The last\r\nedition of the Vilna Talmud was published in 1897\u2014the year in
    which the Zionist movement was\r\nfounded in Basle, Switzerland, and the Jewish
    Labor Bund was founded in Vilna. Clearly, eastern\r\nEuropean Jewry had entered
    a new phase of its history, during which traditional Judaism, whether\r\nmitnagdic
    or \xF2asidic, had to fight an uphill battle against the forces of modernity.
    After the death\r\nof the \u201CWidow Romm\u201D in 1903 and the emigration of
    three of her sons to New York, the Romm\r\npress continued to function. The remaining
    heirs had no interest in continuing in the publishing\r\nbusiness, however, and
    the press was sold in 1910 to Baron David Guenzburg, the learned scion of\r\nthe
    richest and most powerful Jewish family in the Russian Empire. For the next three
    decades the\r\nfirm still called \u201CThe typography of the Widow and Brothers
    Romm\u201D continued to publish Hebrew\r\nand Yiddish books, both traditional
    and modernist, until it was destroyed in 1940 in the Soviet\r\noccupation of Vilna.\r\n\r\nThrough
    these turbulent times, as the Romm Talmud\u2019s plates and templates were transferred
    both\r\nto the Land of Israel and to the United States,7 \r\n\r\n7. See Yahadut
    Lita (n.1 above).\r\n\r\nthe Vilna Shas retained its centrality throughout the\r\nJewish
    world, still referred to and honored by its original site of publication, the\r\n\u201CJerusalem
    of Lithuania.\u201D"
  created: '2013-05-27 00:18:15'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "http://www.yivoencyclopedia.org/printarticle.aspx?id=2210\r\n\r\nhttp://www.yivoencyclopedia.org/article.aspx/Romm_Family\r\n\r\nRomm
    Family\r\n\r\nWhen Yosef Re\u2019uven died, his eldest son, David (1825\u20131860),
    inherited the business, though the title pages continued to use the phrase \u201CIn
    the Printing Shop of Yosef Re\u2019uven Romm.\u201D In 1858, publication of a
    new edition of the Talmud was begun by the Shapira family in Zhitomir; a year
    later, David Romm also began publication of an edition of the Talmud. The Zhitomir
    edition was completed in 1864; the Romm edition in 1866. Sales of the latter proceeded
    slowly. After David\u2019s death, his widow, Devorah (d. 1903), began to manage
    the company, assisted at first by her scholarly father, Yosef Betsal\u2019el Harkavy
    (d. 1864). The company\u2019s income was divided among Devorah, who received 40
    percent, and David\u2019s brothers, \u1E24ayim Ya\u2018akov and Mena\u1E25em Gavri\u2019el,
    who each received 30 percent. (Mena\u1E25em also took over the Russian-language
    printing business when the Russian authorities demanded the separation of the
    Russian and Hebrew printing operations, for purposes of taxation and so that the
    government could more easily control the number of books published.) From 1871,
    the title pages of books published by the company carried the words \u201CThe
    Printing House of the Widow and the Brothers Romm\u201D (see image at left).\r\n\r\nAlexander
    II rescinded the limitations on Hebrew printing in 1862: in exchange for an annual
    tax of 20 rubles for every manual printing press, the industry was open to all.
    (For rapid, steam-driven presses, the price was 120 rubles for a small press,
    240 for a large one.) Three former Romm employees thereupon opened their own,
    rival press in Vilna together with Shemu\u2019el Fuenn. Fuenn wanted to print
    Haskalah literature, but the production of daily and holiday prayer books\u2014in
    direct competition with the Romms\u2014proved more lucrative. In response, the
    Romm house, which was on a firm financial footing, lowered the prices of their
    books almost to their cost. Thus, the price of the prayer book Korban Mosheh was
    reduced from 2.5 rubles to 0.5 rubles. Romm also began to print Haskalah books,
    but these generally had poor sales.\r\n\r\nCompetition with rival printers in
    Vilna, however, did less harm to the Romm firm than an internal rivalry that broke
    out in 1866 between the brothers and Devorah. Eventually the business was divided
    among them, and it dwindled considerably in importance. Devorah turned to Feigenzohn
    in 1867 and asked him to take over management of the firm. He worked to resolve
    the differences among the owners and simultaneously to overhaul and modernize
    the technologies and procedures. Feigenzohn introduced stereotype printing, the
    process by which pages are cast in sheets of lead, making it possible to preserve
    editions of books and reprint them rapidly if demand arose without having to set
    the text in type again. He traveled to Berlin to buy the new machinery and hired
    professionals to operate it. A six-week strike by typesetters, alarmed at the
    prospect of losing their jobs, was resolved by means of an increase in their salary.\r\n\r\nFeigenzohn
    also worked to overcome the obstacles posed by the censor\u2014at that time, the
    convertIakov Brafman\u2014by providing him with a regular \u201Csalary,\u201D
    in exchange for which Brafman would examine every book intended for publication
    before it was printed. Feigenzohn introduced the policy of proofreading material
    three times to ensure the accuracy of the texts. Books were redesigned to attract
    buyers, and a policy of acquiring exclusive rights to publication was put in place.\r\n\r\nFeigenzohn
    directed the project of what came to be known as the Vilna Talmud, a production
    characterized by scrupulous proofreading and the addition of many variant readings
    and commentaries. At his behest, manuscripts held by various libraries were copied
    in order to add early, previously unpublished commentaries to the new edition.
    At the height of its production, more than 100 printers and 14 learned proofreaders
    were involved in the project.\r\n\r\nThere was a substantial response to the appeal
    for subscribers in the fall of 1879. Demand for the new edition was so great that
    22,000 copies of the first volume were sold in the first year (1880). Sales were
    hindered by pogroms in southern Russia the next year and by fires that damaged
    the plant and books in the warehouses. A decline in the number of subscribers
    and sales ensued, but there were still 13,000 subscribers when the final volume
    was printed in 1886.\r\n\r\nMena\u1E25em Gavri\u2019el transferred management
    of the Russian-language press to outside administrators in 1901. When the new
    managers gave printing materials to revolutionaries, the authorities became aware
    of the practice. Badly frightened, Mena\u1E25em Gavri\u2019el sold the Russian
    part of the business for a pittance.\r\n\r\nAfter Feigenzohn left the printing
    house in 1888, it had gone into a period of decline, producing just a single new
    edition, the prayer book Kolbo (1895). Subsequently, Feigenzohn resumed management
    of the firm in 1903, the year of Devorah\u2019s death. At the time of his return,
    the printing house held thousands of folio pages of the most important canonical
    works in stereotype, 15 presses were still in operation, and the firm held the
    rights to print classics of Jewish literature. What it lacked was capital.\r\n\r\nA
    small investment came from Bentsiyon Aharonovitsh, who financed the printing of
    several orders of the Mishnah, but more than his assistance was needed. At a meeting
    of Jewish leaders in Saint Petersburg, the rebbe of the Lubavitch Hasidic movement,
    Shalom Dov Ber Shneerson, horrified at the prospect of the closure of the Romm
    house, persuaded Baron David Gintsburg to rescue the shop, and Gintsburg invested
    75,000 rubles. Feigenzohn paid the debts of the firm, but additional backing dissolved
    when Gintsburg died in 1910. World War I caused a further decline in the firm\u2019s
    fortunes, and it passed into the hands of its creditors, who operated it until
    1940. - this needs a proven source because it contradicts many established facts.\r\n\r\nThe
    importance of the Romm press in the cultural history of the nineteenth century
    cannot be overstated. During its existence, the Romm printing house published
    more than 1,400 books in both Hebrew and, to a lesser extent, Yiddish, in a variety
    of literary genres. Books devoted to Kabbalah andhalakhah appeared alongside the
    novels of Avraham Mapu and the stories of Ayzik Meyer Dik. Romm published Yits\u1E25ak
    Ber Levinzon\u2019s prolegomenon, Igeret ha-besorah (1824), to his extended program
    for the reform of Jewry, Te\u2018udah be-Yisra\u2019el (1827, 1856). \u2018Azaryah
    dei Rossi\u2019s sixteenth-century translation into Hebrew of the Letter of Aristeas
    (Greek, second century BCE) was printed in 1818 and entitled Haderat zekenim.
    Translations from world literature into Hebrew and Yiddish soon followed. The
    first of these was a translation of the journal of a seventeenth-century Dutch
    traveler to the Far East, W. Bontekoe, into Hebrew, apparently by Mena\u1E25em
    Mendel Lefin, Oniyah so\u2018arah (1823), published together with a translation
    of one of Joachim Heinrich Campe\u2019s works, Masa\u2018ot ha-yam, byMordekhai
    Aharon Gintsburg. The latter\u2019s translation of Campe\u2019s Masa\u2018 Kolumbus
    was published the same year, but the name of the publisher did not appear on the
    title page. A year later, Romm published Gintsburg\u2019s Yiddish translation
    of the same work.\r\n\r\nRomm published Sefer ha-berit by Pin\u1E25as Eliyahu
    Hurwitz (1765\u20131821) in 1818. This was an idiosyncratic, encyclopedic work
    combining philosophical and kabbalistic topics with reports on scientific discoveries.
    It was an important source of scientific information for many readers who knew
    only Hebrew and Yiddish. Much farther from normative literature was the introduction
    to algebra,Mosde \u1E25okhmah by the maskil \u1E24ayim Zelig S\u0142onimski (1834).
    Much of the Haskalah literature failed to find a wide market, often remaining
    unsold.\r\n\r\nThe Romm house continued to print rabbinic literature alongside
    works calling for reform. Several collections of the teachings of Eliyahu, the
    Gaon of Vilna, were printed as well as a number of editions of \u1E24aye adam
    (1810, 1819, 1834), the popular halakhic work by Avraham Danzig. All this was
    in addition to canonical works such as the Talmud and the Shul\u1E25an \u2018arukh,
    prayer books, and Pentateuchs.\r\n\r\nRomm printed some Yiddish books as well,
    including Eli\u2018ezer Paver\u2019s Gdulas Yoysef, which they reprinted several
    times (1817, 1822, 1833). Tkhines were published in Tikun shelosh mishmarot(1833).
    A complete list of Romm publications would reflect well the trends and cultural
    developments of East European Jewry in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-27 00:54:38'
date: '2013-03-20 04:33:29'
title: Ancient Talmud

---
