---
author:
  name: hashiama
  picture: 112147
body: "This is strange, having to do parallel postings on the web, I don't like this
  bifurcation of the online type design community\u2026 what's up with TypeDrawers?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Why do you HAVE to do double-posting? Different sites have different users
    and a different focus. And freedom of choice is a great thing about the internet.
    Typophile is probably the largest typography board on the internet, but it's a
    private endeavor with no \u201Cofficial\u201D status. There is nothing wrong with
    having alternatives. "
  created: '2013-03-24 10:28:11'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I had always assumed that typophile was a site for people working with and
    interested in type. There are more people professionally involved with type who
    are not type designers than who are. Then there are those, whatever their profession,
    with a general interest in type.\r\n\r\nSo far, at least from the people who post
    and the categories available, TypeDrawers, is primarily aimed at type designers.
    Typography for example, has only History and Education as subcategories. Nothing
    there for users, generally -- except, maybe, under \"business\" as as potential
    customers?\r\n\r\nSort of implicit in your post --hopefully unintended -- is that
    the non-designers who frequent typophile should go away."
  created: '2013-03-24 12:47:40'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I think James's TypeDrawers is to be applauded ...I know first hand how hard
    it is to develop and maintain an online community. He's obviously feeling his
    way through ...take for instance his March 9th Real Name issue. Where was that
    insight when he first started to invite Typophiles??? \r\n\r\nBut hey. I learn
    from most everybody. Although his forum doesn't allow the entire Typophile community
    to post up what they think is great about type and letter shapes in general, I
    still think it's a useful resource. \r\n\r\nLOL, I wonder how many TypeDrawer
    members look to their post's emoticons as a means of their own acceptance. \r\n\r\n+1
    :) :( ;) -1 -1 -1\r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-24 19:21:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I joined Typedrawers only recently, when there seemed a general lull in anything
    of any interest on Typophile and massive spam problems. That in itself, I think,
    explains part of the reason why Typedrawers exists: people who for various reasons
    were frustrated with Typophile wanted a different place with a different structure.\r\n\r\nSo
    far, I'm pretty happy with Typedrawers but it hasn't yet reached anywhere near
    the quality of Typophile at its best, but then neither has Typophile recently.
    I appreciate the focus on professional type design over there, and the absence
    of 'Can anyone tell me what this font is?', and I do think both forums are different
    and necessary. There will be times when the same topic -- the Canberra competition,
    for instance -- gets aired in both place, but I suspect this will happen less
    often than one might think, and it might be interesting to see the ways in which
    the actual discussions differ."
  created: '2013-03-24 19:39:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ralf, you certainly have a point. But it's also not very efficient, because
    -unless you just want a social fix- you basically do have to post both places,
    and read both places. Also, I personally believe in freedom <em>from</em> choice
    too!  :-)\r\n\r\nNot everything on Typophile belongs on TypeDrawers, but I think
    everything on TypeDrawers does belong on Typophile... Which means it could have
    been some sort of sub-forum, at least in theory. But that wasn't meant to be,
    for a number of reasons.\r\n\r\nAlso, I value the mingling of makers and users
    that Charles mentions. I guess what some makers mind though is being distracted
    by the \"noise\" that non-practitioners can cause. On TypeDrawers, even when a
    post by a maker isn't \"tight\" enough, sparks fly.\r\n\r\nIn the end, some people
    are not open to changing their attitudes - they just want to get better/faster
    at what they do, and they don't want ideological confrontation to impede that.
    For others, things like this\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/101331\r\nare the best
    thing on the planet.\r\n\r\nBTW, in case not everybody knows this: I (along with
    at least one other person, but probably more) am not allowed to participate on
    TypeDrawers. One of the triggers was that I confronted the friend and former teacher
    of its owner on Typophile, when this person started \"digitally vandalizing\"
    Typophile, and randomly abusing members in the harshest manner. I felt it was
    my duty to try to stop that; I wish others weren't so detached. What's quite ironic
    BTW is that this person has been flagged a Troll six times on TypeDrawers, and
    I'm not even there! :-/  Looking for scapegoats is for weaklings.\r\n\r\nTo me
    TypeDrawers does fill a role, one that sadly seems necessary. However I don't
    respect its genesis (as others on TypeDrawers itself have actually opined) and
    I don't have faith in its owner on a number of levels. But none of that makes
    TypeDrawers pointless.\r\n\r\n<blockquote> Typophile is .... a private endeavor
    with no \u201Cofficial\u201D status.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThis part I don't get.
    Is TypeDrawers any different? In fact isn't it <em>more</em> private?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-24 19:47:42'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I think Hrant should be allowed to join TypeDrawers. It would be interesting
    to see how fast his Troll credits would rise. I'm actually surprised I only have
    6. I just can't seem to piss 'em off like I used to.
  created: '2013-03-25 13:54:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "However the value of your contributions has remained quite constant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-25 14:10:40'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Good to hear you are a fan!
  created: '2013-03-25 14:19:24'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[to follow]'
  created: '2013-03-25 15:10:52'
- author:
    name: hashiama
    picture: 112147
  body: "<blockquote>Sort of implicit in your post --hopefully unintended -- is that
    the non-designers who frequent typophile should go away.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely
    not, I think people are free to go where they wish. I'm not troubled by the type
    of people on either forums.\r\n\r\nHrant, I've joined your club (momentarily!)
    I was banned for a short period of time because an Admin thought I was a troll\u2026\r\n\r\n(\"offending\"
    threads: [[http://typedrawers.com/discussion/comment/3916|one]] and [[http://typedrawers.com/discussion/comment/3904/|two]]) "
  created: '2013-03-26 01:34:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, I <em>do</em> spot a troll on that first one!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp"
  created: '2013-03-26 03:11:41'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: 'I seemed to have been kicked off typedrawers for a while too. I signed up
    again and they let me back in. Perhaps no one can believe that an actual person
    would do TrueType hinting. '
  created: '2013-03-26 03:17:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "As it says in the READ THIS FIRST: \"The moderators know who the real experts
    are.\"\r\n\r\nJames Puckett (as far as I can tell the one and only moderator)
    has been in the field for about 4 years, and he knows exactly who knows what.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-28 01:33:30'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Experts? That leaves me out.\r\n\r\nSuch is life..."
  created: '2013-03-29 01:13:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW there seem to be threads on TypeDrawers that are invitation-only (I mean
    even for registered users) with apparently no mechanism to request an invitation...
    Can you say Old Boys Club?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-29 20:33:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "How can you search for something you don't know exists? People do browse.\r\n\r\nBTW
    doesn't everybody's opinion matter more than zero?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-30 00:05:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I don't speak for either forum, but only for myself. And I mall ears. What's
    up with coming from outerspace and thinking that your opinion of the bifurcation
    of any online community should matter? \r\n\r\nMaybe it sounds harsh, but one
    of the things that's clear in onlinedness of the elderly, when you hear the same
    ?s over and over and over: Don't you have search tools out there? And how long
    does it take for our posts to reach you?"
  created: '2013-03-30 11:04:04'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "The most worrying thing about Typeboard is that it's an autocracy masquerading
    as a meritocracy.\r\n\r\nFrom the site's Read This First page: <cite>Moderators
    are exempt from the rules</cite>. That's glaringly evident when you consider that
    despite the fact that ad hominem attacks are explicitly not allowed, they are
    happily tolerated when the subject is , say, Hrant. The whiff of hypocrisy is
    all over it."
  created: '2013-03-30 14:48:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Puckett's personal friends are also exempt from the rules sometimes. Only
    two of Montalbano's six Troll flags are visible; this is because the first four
    were quietly removed, but when the recording of Troll flags became an explicit
    issue (partially because he got two more, partially because he complained about
    not being able to mark any Troll flags himself, but possibly also because I brought
    up the issue here*) the <em>number</em> was -again quietly- reinstated.\r\n\r\n*
    http://www.typophile.com/node/52576#comment-545229\r\n\r\nNone of this makes TypeDrawers
    useless, but cronyism does make it markedly less useful, because some people have
    principles concerning what kind of people they associate with, principles that
    over-ride any benefit they might draw from participating. To be fair, there are
    also people who participate because they're vying -or at least hoping- for improvement.
    That actually describes my own participation on Typophile: loyalty makes me want
    to weather spam attacks, lack of ethics in the ID forum, and personal attacks.
    I would say this sort of \"family loyalty\" is somewhat lacking among creative
    people in general (partly because of difficulty handling criticism) and I feel
    this is strongly reflected in the genesis of TypeDrawers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-30 16:12:14'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: "<cite> [\u2026] when the recording of Troll flags became an explicit issue
    (partially because he got two more, partially because he complained about not
    being able to mark any Troll flags himself, but possibly also because I brought
    up the issue here*) the number was -again quietly- reinstated.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is not true. You can mark comments as \u201Ctroll\u201D, but the number in your
    profile does not go down when those comments get deleted. Two of James\u2019 troll-flags
    are by me \u2013 and he returned the favour \u2013 but his comments where so inappropriate
    and personal attacking that I asked the forum/moderator/Puckett to delete them
    alltogether. This is why four of the six are not visible anymore, neither are
    my two which were deleted with the same part of the thread, but they are still
    on the profile counter, though not influenced or \u201Creinstated\u201D by the
    moderator."
  created: '2013-03-30 17:02:20'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "Well, I am running a online-forum for over 12 years now and I can tell you
    from experience (like anyone else who runs a larger online discussion board) that
    a successful forum just needs to be an autocracy. Someone is paying for that board
    and maybe is putting in hundreds of hours of work every year to make it flourish.
    That someone needs to protect this work, even if that means deleting posts, banning
    members and so. Thousands of online boards work this way since the 1990s.  \r\n\r\nI
    am convinced, that the demise of the reputation of Typophile over the last years
    was specifically caused by the fact, that no one here set and executed clear rules.
    \r\nAnd this eventually lead to the creation of alternatives. So what? If you
    don't like the way those boards are run, don't use them. Move on. At best: don't
    even read the public forums there. Continue to use Typophile or any other board.
    \r\n\r\nBut do the users of this \xBBhouse\xAB really need to peak over the neighbor\u2019s
    fence and complain about every step the people there are doing? That seems a bit
    childish. Especially since many users of TypeDrawers continue to be active here.
    It's just two boards. No one is at war. No one is fighting about profits or the
    most users. It's just people interested in typography and type design who like
    to exchange their thoughts. Live and let live. "
  created: '2013-03-30 17:28:59'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "Why would anyone mark a post they don't like as a \"troll.\" So you don't
    like it, get over it. Hrant seems like an honorable, honest, stand up guy, and
    I find that to be very annoying. Every time he goes off on yet another rant about
    No Mod clauses and giving back to the community, I want to scream. It doesn't
    mean I think he or anyone else should get demerits for their thoughts. \r\n\r\nBut,
    let me get this straight, at typedrawer, regular forum users get to set demerits?
    Are these reviewed by a moderator? And, each user can retaliate by setting demerits
    for his or her critic? That makes sense. \r\n\r\nSo, can anyone set their own
    restricted invitation only post?"
  created: '2013-03-30 17:35:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks for the kind words.\r\n\r\nBut does it makes sense for a moderator
    to allow a retaliatory Troll (or any negative) flag? I think those should be based
    on content.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-30 17:56:43'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: '@hrant Either you are poking fun at me or my sarcasm needs polishing. No,
    it makes no sense at all. Any such system should be reviewed by a Moderator. '
  created: '2013-03-30 18:07:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You said some nice things. Thank you. That's all. And I don't mind making
    people angry sometimes as long as I'm also making them think sometimes. I really
    hate cocktail parties.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-30 18:16:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ralf, I'm actually a monarchist - I don't believe in Democracy. But the King/Queen
    must be honorable. So I agree that there has not been enough moderator activity
    on Typophile; however an imbalanced application of rules has its own problems.
    And your \"live and let live\" doesn't really mesh with any of that.\r\n\r\nAnd
    there's nothing childish about worrying about the state of public discourse on
    type design; Typophile and TypeDrawers are both part of that, together (along
    with many other things). It's all related. And if you can't see the various levels
    of confrontation (maybe not a war, but certainly a network of battles) I don't
    know what to say.\r\n\r\nIndra, I can assure you that Montalbano's Troll count
    went down from two to zero; that's when I wrote my comment on that thread I mentioned;
    then it jumped to six after your two. So I actually missed what happened to the
    two in between, and I might be making an incorrect -if safe- assumption on those.
    But qualitatively two is still infinitely more than zero. BTW the point isn't
    to nitpick - the point is that the person who was a catalyst of the birth of TypeDrawers
    was himself a big part of the problem on Typophile; sadly some people prefer to
    demonize a single individual. And actually this person has been anti-online_fora
    at least since I first started, in 1998. Not everybody is fit for every kind of
    social interaction, and living with something one considers a necessary evil for
    too many years eventually explodes.\r\n\r\nAlso, marking somebody a Troll merely
    in retaliation should not be tolerated.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-30 18:21:58'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: 'I meant about the issue of a demerit system. No Mod review and trolls in
    retaliation are a Bad idea. '
  created: '2013-03-30 18:49:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<blockquote> I don't mind making people angry sometimes as long as I'm also
    making them think sometimes.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHave you considered that what
    makes people angry is this, which looks very much like arrogance?\r\n\r\nIn the
    threads in which you make people angry -- by questioning their motivation or characterising
    them as blinkered or hidebound when their thinking disagrees with yours -- do
    you see any evidence that this results in thinking? It seems to me always to spell
    the end of discussion and, increasingly, devolution into name calling.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that there are a wide areas of interaction between the polite banalities
    of a 'cocktail party' and people spitting at each other. I don't consider you
    always culpable, Hrant, in individual situations, but over the years you've built
    up massive credit in the animosity account which puts a lot of people on a hair
    trigger. If you know that you bring out the worst in people, and that they in
    turn bring out the worst in you, shouldn't you mind making people angry?"
  created: '2013-03-30 19:13:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, that post is so 2005. As some people have noted, I don't anger people
    the way I used to. The relatively recent incident with the Jameses frankly I see
    not as my failure, but a failure of others, who didn't bother coming to Typophile's
    defense. Of course that's just my view, but it remains that my stance was not
    an act of aggression or even self-defense, but an act of defending a community
    I value.\r\n\r\nBut since the past isn't irrelevant, I'll try to address your
    major points.\r\n\r\nYou can't predict people's reactions. Or at least I can't.
    For example I can't figure out how what I wrote above could be considered \"arrogant\".
    It's not that I think angering people is OK, it's that it's often an unavoidable
    pothole on a worthwhile path - it comes with the territory of making people think
    (which does not mean those two things always coincide). At least where I come
    from (which I don't necessarily mean geographically or ethnically). Remember,
    we're from different -personal- cultures; your \"civilized\" is often my \"deceptive\".\r\n\r\n<blockquote>If
    you know that you bring out the worst in people</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI don't see
    it like that. I bring out -unwittingly- what's inside, good or bad (including
    from myself). And/but we can then deal with it. To me the alternative <em>is</em>
    essentially a cocktail party.\r\n\r\nI believe the key to fruitful discourse is
    always to focus on the content, not the style. Which, of course, is why I personally
    prefer text fonts to display fonts.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-31 02:37:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, I'm mostly with you (although I will note that it's a weekend, and
    Easter weekend) but it's not OK to post a private message in public (unless of
    course you already got David's permission).\r\n\r\nAnyway I think the Webtype
    issue deserves (and needs) to be a separate thread.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-31 03:10:33'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "As someone who literally just signed up just over two hours ago, TyperDrawer
    seems quite flawed with new users. I posted a topic about an issue with Webtype
    and how it seems they do not protect their product. David messaged me and told
    me that...well actually, read the post and then take a look at what he said.\r\n\r\nPost:
    http://typedrawers.com/discussion/296/is-webtype-aware \r\nDavid's message: <em>removed</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    back-story of why I posted the discussion:\r\n\r\nI found that you can easily
    download Webtype's <strong>entire library</strong> for free. I tweeted them to
    make it aware (without compromising how it can be done) without any reaction or
    reply. Could I have emailed them? Sure but it isn't my responsibility. Therefore,
    it seemed that a) they don't care or b) they are aware of the issue and didn't
    want to respond in case others read through their tweets. Even then I would have
    at least emailed the person that found a loophole in my business. I was looking
    for discussion on the topic of why a distributor wouldn't use the basic methods
    of protecting their content.\r\n\r\nSo, in my opinion, it appears they heavily
    control what people can and cannot say. Like you're walking on eggshells to make
    sure you don't say/do anything that could result in a negative consequence. Seems
    quite limiting and overboard. Then again, China's method might work for some."
  created: '2013-03-31 03:27:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "2005, Hrant? I was thinking of your fairly regular spitting contests with
    Michael, including some within the last ten days. As I wrote, I do not consider
    you always culpable, but given how you know these things will go I'm disappointed
    that you don't find a way to avoid them. Obviously, I would say the same to Michael.\r\n\r\nI
    agree entirely that the key to fruitful discourse is to focus on the content,
    but that is precisely why I get frustrated when you start speculating as to people's
    motivation and psychology instead of either engaging with the content of their
    ideas or acknowledging a disagreement in good faith. When you write 'I bring out
    -unwittingly- what's inside, good or bad', that looks to me like more of the same."
  created: '2013-03-31 03:29:18'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "hrant,\r\n\r\nForgive me for posting that (which I removed). I just found
    it very disrespectful what was said. As for the Webtype issue, I think I'll have
    a private conversation with them by email instead of dragging this out."
  created: '2013-03-31 03:42:55'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Chris, you're right it was very disrespectful and very bold of him to say
    so. Has he tried to intimidate you over here?\r\n\r\nSorry I clicked on the link
    ...and no I didn't take a screen shot of it ...honest.\r\n\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-31 03:53:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>I get frustrated when you start speculating as to people's motivation
    and psychology</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAlthough I maintain that there is no separating
    what people state from where they're coming from, I actually haven't done that
    sort of thing much at all lately.\r\n\r\nMichael I think is a special case. For
    example when you use \"chirography\" it's no problem, but when I use it he thinks
    I'm taunting him. And if you look carefully you'll see that he's developed a nasty
    habit of stalking me, and I only offer token resistance, lest total silence is
    misconstrued. And I'm careful to totally avoid threads like this: http://typophile.com/node/101770\r\n\r\nChris:
    I agree it was a bit domineering. BTW private conversations certainly aren't pointless,
    but there's also nothing like a public debacle to get a company (and others paying
    attention) to do the right thing, if a private approach fails.\r\n\r\nRemember,
    everybody strikes a different balance between business and culture.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-31 04:04:20'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: Haha. I've never really had issues with anyone here except Nick. And those
    issues were merely Nick being mildly antagonistic.
  created: '2013-03-31 04:05:58'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "It's slightly disturbing that this topic has more responses than any particular
    topic about type. I suppose people are attracted to the drama of politics? \r\nWhen
    I need an answer about, say, vertical metrics, or problems with a FL python script,
    I just go to wherever I think I might get the best answer.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-31 05:01:18'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Ironic. A thread that started about \u201CWhy TypeDrawers?\u201D has spiraled
    downwards into all but name-calling. Really?"
  created: '2013-03-31 05:12:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That was always going to become what this thread is about.\r\nAnd the fact
    that it\u2019s happening here explains why Typedrawers exists\u2014for type, not
    meta-discussion."
  created: '2013-03-31 08:19:42'
- author:
    name: hashiama
    picture: 112147
  body: "<blockquote> If you have something to say to Webtype then contact them directly.
    Stop trying to create Internet drama around yourself. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nIs
    a bit antagonistic I agree.\r\n\r\nThere even seems to be a discussion about Hrant
    over there..."
  created: '2013-03-31 13:34:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>I just go to wherever I think I might get the best answer.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut
    is the point only to get an answer for yourself? Sure that's the primary motivation,
    but it's very nice to also help create a \"library\" of answers/discussions for
    anybody to conveniently use. And one library is more efficient than two.\r\n\r\nChris
    (Dean), I'm actually not seeing a lot of name-calling, just frank criticism. That
    said -as a moderator- I think you should feel free to censure/censor anything.\r\n\r\nNick,
    to me such \"existential\" discussions cannot be separated from the cultural future
    of type; they can only be irrelevant to making more money (and only in the short
    term). And money isn't <em>everything</em> to anybody. You can tell because even
    on TypeDrawers such discussions might be truncated, but they can't be entirely
    avoided.\r\n\r\nWei, that quote is quite disturbing; so is the closing of that
    thread. But I'll be nice and not air my speculations. I do hope that -if Chris
    (Burton) cannot resolve the issue in private- he does air it on Typophile, where
    it's safe.\r\n\r\nBTW Ralf (\"rhe\"), why are you so upset as to obfuscate your
    profile info?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-31 15:22:16'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: <em>removed</em>
  created: '2013-03-31 15:28:43'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>it's very nice to also help create a \"library\" of answers/discussions
    for anybody to conveniently use. And one library is more efficient than two.</blockquote>\r\n
    \r\nSurely you have to concede that, with search functions broken, it has been
    years since Typophile has been such an efficient library. "
  created: '2013-03-31 16:37:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "...and speaking of safety, don't ever forget that this site is just not safe
    for the vast majority of the type industry, for whom the endless anarchical and
    idle speculations, as well as topical hijacks, personal and business attacks,
    are unacceptable company, much less worthy of comment.\r\n\r\n\"And one library
    is more efficient than two.\" \r\n\r\nBut since there are zero \"libraries\",
    a half dozen type forums, and fifty other major sites related to type, the statement
    fails to even perch on speculation's searching shoulder. \r\n\r\nIt should also
    not be forgotten that these are the closing years of just the first generation
    of online forums. Finding a whole industry of perfectly self-moderating contributors
    who still stimulate each other, may take generations and a 1,000 forums. Meanwhile,
    thanks to Jared and Punchcut for everything they've done so far, none of this
    could have happened otherwise."
  created: '2013-03-31 16:42:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Google searching of Typophile was blocked for a few months (apparently due
    to a spam \"lock-down\" of sorts) but it's been up again for a few months now.
    I can find things pretty easily these days. You might say something like TypeDrawers
    can be searched via Google too, but quite often people look for something they
    know -or strongly suspect- is on Typophile (remember that it's by far the biggest
    repository, even if it's chaotic) they just need to locate it. So I put \"site:typophile.com\"
    in Google to narrow things down, and I'm set. Frankly it's not a disaster having
    multiple fora, but when it comes to the \"library\" concept it's not ideal either.\r\n\r\nDavid,
    I agree that Typophile is much more dangerous for business than something like
    TypeDrawers (and I alluded to that above). But maybe that's why Typophile seems
    better for cultural progress. That's not everybody's cup of tea, but nobody should
    think it should be nobody's.\r\n\r\nShould Typophile evolve? I love evolution
    a great deal, but there's no reason to throw out the baby with the bathwater.
    It's completely possible to \"re-configure\" all the built-up material and the
    -legitimate- membership. And is it crazy to suggest that the internal search can
    be fixed? Whether Punchcut is willing to do any of that is another matter. But
    if they're not, they just might be gracious enough to pass the baton.\r\n\r\nMost
    of all, I have zero faith in something like Twitter leading to any kind of progress.
    Without reading a great deal (and writing a good deal) all one can achieve is
    a deeper trench. What I do have faith in is loyalty, resilience, patience and
    open discourse.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-31 17:18:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Ah, glad to see at least googling works again. It had been down for so long
    I had given up on it.
  created: '2013-03-31 18:46:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not surprisingly, Chris's Webtype thread on TypeDrawers just went poof. It
    was bad for business. Hey, there's no denying that business is very important.
    It's just better not to pretend. And thankfully Typophile is here to be our WikiLeaks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-31 20:54:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"It's just better not to pretend\"\r\n\r\nStrongly agree, get on with it
    then. These escalating delusions of the concept of a library vs what one finds
    through the search of a place, pretends that what one finds via searching is something
    that it is not. The delusion that a forum like this benefits from the verbal violence
    by making it less hospitable to business via it being a source of hidden secrets,
    that's pretend too.\r\n\r\nBut hey, its Forum Hrantus now. So, in a way, I'm hoping
    that typedrawers develops a broader arc of participants through peace, even if
    that happens to also mean having participation from the successful and humble
    who just can't stand it here. "
  created: '2013-03-31 22:51:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Why is it impossible for you to accept that people can have different objectives
    in life, and we each contribute things that makes type design not merely a financial
    rat race? Are the people who invite me to speak at conferences and pay me to consult
    on their non-Latin designs retarded? Should I get on your case that you prefer
    starting threads about conferencing software instead of sharing your insights
    in threads like this?:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/101331\r\n\r\nI don't believe
    Typophile would have been valuable to as many people in as many ways all these
    years if it were run the way you seem to want (which is not at all to say that
    it's perfect). It would have been more valuable to <em>you,</em> but pardon the
    world for not being at your service. BTW, Typophile has been like this for many
    years now; why did it take so long for a \"business-friendly\" forum like TypeDrawers
    to be launched -by a beginner in the field no less- and in the \"closing years
    of just the first generation of online forums\"? Maybe because sharing insights
    isn't exactly a good business move... Could you reveal exactly how <em>you</em>
    have helped people with <em>their</em> businesses on TypeDrawers? Note: I'm not
    saying you must do so. Or is TypeDrawers really just a \"social fix\" tool? To
    some people Typophile is -at least partly- that. Which is OK, as long as we don't
    pretend.\r\n\r\nMost of all, I don't think making me the scapegoat just because
    I don't share your goals in life is honorable or productive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-31 23:32:38'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<blockquote>Not surprisingly, Chris's Webtype thread on TypeDrawers just
    went poof.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI was banned."
  created: '2013-04-01 04:03:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Do you know on what grounds specifically?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-01 04:50:29'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: "What \"official status\" is needed more than keeping this resource up, through
    thick and thin, for 13 years? Private, sure, but Typophile is free for everyone
    and has always encouraged the community to get involved and help shape things.
    If anything, Typophile is a more accurate representation of the color of the type
    community than any other resource. Professionals, students, graphic designers,
    trolls, hobbyists, etc.\r\n\r\nIn the early years, we had a dedicated \"Uppercase\"
    board for professional type designers, but eventually phased it out after it simply
    didn't get the activity we had hoped. Should we start it up again? What would
    be the criteria for getting beyond the velvet rope?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-01 14:41:43'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<blockquote>Do you know on what grounds specifically?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    wasn't given a reason. However, right before, I was told that I was being a \"dick\"
    and \"seeking attention\". I then went to go back on TypeDrawer after, I believe,
    you said that my thread was gone and found out my permission to access my account
    was denied."
  created: '2013-04-01 14:43:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"What would be the criteria for getting beyond the velvet rope?\"\r\nA Letter
    Sweater?"
  created: '2013-04-01 16:15:23'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>A Letter Sweater?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI for one would love a
    Typophile letter sweater, specifically a non-suicidal uc /K."
  created: '2013-04-01 18:57:08'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "That sparks an idea. I\u2019m going to start a separate thread \u2014 <a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/node/101919\">Typophile merchandise?</a>\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-02 09:05:00'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "hrant,\r\n\r\nI literally did nothing that I haven't disclosed already. I
    had no ulterior motives nor was I \"seeking attention\". There really wasn't anything
    to hide. What happened, happened.\r\n\r\n<strong>Updated:</strong>\r\n\r\nI think
    everyone can agree that the Type IDing is out of control as new users don't read
    the guidelines (many don't). I also think Typophile could condense some of the
    categories which I have expressed to Jared. Honestly, do we really need all those
    boards?"
  created: '2013-04-03 17:44:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Different people browse Typophile differently. Because my own ideal habits
    are poorly supported by the current mechanism I have to assume it's inefficient
    for many others as well. So the large number of boards is moot to me personally;
    it could certainly be relevant to other people, or become relevant to [people
    like] me if the user interface changes.\r\n\r\nIf there were a way to entirely
    exclude the ID section during browsing (which actually used to be possible) that
    would help certain kinds of users. Watching the activity on the ID section versus
    the rest of Typophile you realize that there is virtually zero interaction: people
    who use the ID section never go anywhere else, and people who spend time actually
    discussing type almost never set foot in the ID section. It's not a healthy state
    of affairs, not least because there is no such demarcation in terms of user interface.\r\n\r\nMost
    of all, things wax and wane. If things are handled correctly Typophile can start
    waxing again, even if it has to change. But you will never please everybody, certainly
    not people who see public discussion as a venting mechanism or some sort of necessary
    evil. Just because somebody's type design skills are highly respectable does not
    mean they are psychologically fit for discourse. Remember that any creative person
    has an over-sensitive artist in him, so has trouble handling criticism. Some of
    those who don't value what Typophile is or can be wisely and kindly simply stay
    away; sadly however there are some who can't stand not watching, but can't or
    don't want to participate much, so they want to shut people up. It makes no sense
    to deride people who spend a lot of time disagreeing with you; make your decision
    of how seriously you want to defend your views in public, and stop whining.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    more of us need to be more pro-active, more loyal. When somebody who has struck
    down public discussion for over a decade starts drunkenly vandalizing the place
    and randomly abusing members, I shouldn't be the only person putting up resistance,
    and then be singled out for confronting people. Typophile might be \"virtual\",
    but it is still a community; it needs defending. Watching it devolve is very short-sighted,
    and that attitude can't sustain <em>any</em> community for any meaningful length
    of time.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-03 18:53:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>Just because somebody's type design skills are highly respectable
    does not mean they are psychologically fit for discourse</em>.\u201D\r\n~ Papazian,
    H. (2013).\r\n\r\nThat made me chuckle. I\u2019ll most likely use that quote in
    a future presentation. Still chuckling. Thanks. Today was a long day."
  created: '2013-04-03 22:31:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Jared: \"Should we start it up again? What would be the criteria for getting
    beyond the velvet rope?\"\r\n\r\nThis first question, what have you to got to
    lose?\r\n\r\nThe second, I hope if someone gives you the advice to open a new
    area that has more moderators, you judge the suggestion closely. Hilariously,
    that's the only alternative to \"this\", the definition of which I'll get into
    in a minute. \r\n\r\nIt's hard to imagine why a board for professionals would
    need <em>more </em> moderation than an unprofessional board. I mean, non-self
    moderation means its gone too far already 100% of the time.  So if that's the
    proposal, and it's the only option, then there are probably some other issues,
    bringing us to this.\r\n\r\nFor some people, its all connected... Ask one person
    a question get another one charging you with board slaughter, five counts of board
    neglect, squelching conversation and more! because as you see, it's all connected.
    Everything they ever said or done is in there ...buzzzzzijng around.\r\n\r\nOthers
    compartmentalize not because they are boring or withholding, but for the sake
    of productive discourse, and to spend time at mouse, with their faces. Little
    box here, little box there, boxes for everything. \r\n\r\nThere is a video on
    the subject here: http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0BxckAMaTDc\r\n\r\nSo it's your
    baby! You have models with strong moderation and little or none. You also have:\r\n\r\n\"Top
    typophiles in the last 10 days:\r\nRyuk: 99\r\ndefiantone: 59\r\nChris Dean: 53\r\nHVB:
    39\r\n...\"\r\n\r\nIs that right? I think there might be a bug in the program.
    \r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2013-04-04 02:59:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Swiss cheese.\r\n\r\n- \"What have you got to lose?\" Time? Even more respect?\r\n\r\n-
    What is a \"professional\" type designer? Somebody who makes more than a certain
    amount of money in type design? How much? Or is it somebody who makes money only
    through type design? So Thomas for example would be excluded?\r\n\r\n- Do you
    believe making more money is the only benchmark? And if you do, do you look down
    on people who don't agree with that?\r\n\r\n- Why should Typophile be only for
    professional type designers? Is conversing with people like Charles bad for professional
    type designers? Or do you mean professional in anything? Any <em>one</em> thing?
    Do you really want to try to nail all those things down, and then try to prove
    that your view of an ideal Typophile is good for different kinds of people? You
    should know that Jared is actually even more inclusive than I am. Did you miss
    the \"accurate representation of the color of the type community\"?\r\n\r\n- Compartmentalize
    <em>things</em> all you want. But when you try to compartmentalize <em>people</em>
    by expecting them to behave to your benefit, it backfires.\r\n\r\n- Top Typophiles
    in the past ten days? Why exclude John Hudson just below HVB? And are you counting
    posts, or volume? When you count volume, not just number of posts, John is probably
    near the very top all the time. What you should note instead is that three of
    those top four are ID people. So my missing number is worth insinuating against,
    but the ID deluge is not?\r\n\r\n- What's worse: Hiding the posting count of a
    very active person because some people psychologically can't handle it and they'll
    use a number as a weapon to strike you down and justify their weak-minded behavior?
    Or quietly wiping away somebody whose only \"mistake\" was to claim that a \"big
    daddy\" webfont provider had left a back door open (without even revealing the
    door)?\r\n\r\n- Moderation isn't just about degrees, but spirit. You can have
    a strict but just king, or a strict and socially clueless, erratic despot who
    calls people \"dick\".\r\n\r\nThe bug in the program is people who think there's
    only one good way to live and people who want to trick others into believing that
    so they can milk them better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-04 05:38:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Lol, I was responding to Jared, Hrant, discussing an additional board on
    typophile, not strangling your precious place while you are asleep in your bed
    in full throttle midpost, or preventing your  post volume or bird dogging, but
    thanks for your excellent bzbzbzbz bbbzzzzzb bzzzzb b zz.... points.  (allllllll
    connnnecteddd:)\r\n\r\nThen I asked, yes, why are Hrant Papazian's posts not being
    counted like every one else. Is that right? Did I miss a discussion here? ;)\r\n\r\nNow
    for the gossip over the fence.  No Hrant, I don't think either Mr. Burton being
    ejected form typedrawers, or your posts being uncounted are good things. Which
    is worse? I'd never ever speculate on that until I have all the facts. You know
    why? I didn't think so."
  created: '2013-04-04 11:39:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris (Burton), you were bad for business. :-/  But it still seems pretty
    extreme. Maybe he thinks you betrayed the Old Boys by talking about it on Typophile.
    Maybe he was pressured. Without an explanation all somebody can do is speculate,
    which is no good for anybody. And unless you did something really wrong that you
    haven't revealed, I have to say that anybody over there with half a spine should
    complain. Otherwise fear of capricious censorship will stifle meaningful discourse.\r\n\r\nJared,
    people are reactionary. The reason the Uppercase forum didn't succeed was probably
    that there was nothing very wrong with the rest of Typophile. I don't think things
    were less confrontational back then (I for one was probably more confrontational)
    so maybe the more recent combination of mountains of font IDs (with its undercurrent
    of piracy and plagiarism) and gobs of spam changed things. And I have to frankly
    agree with those who say that Punchcut was too hands-off for too long. I hope
    it's not too little, too late now.\r\n\r\nWould it be a good idea to restart a
    more restrictive section of Typophile? Ironically, now that the ID section is
    less unethical (for which I can immodestly take partial credit) and the spam seems
    99% under control, maybe it's again not needed. :-/  But two fruitful distinctions
    between an exclusive section and the rest might be:\r\n- More hands-on moderation,
    dampening confrontations. Since the exclusive section would be less active (see
    below) that would be more doable.\r\n- Total ban on IDing.\r\n\r\nSo, what would
    the exclusivity criteria be? My suggestion: $1 a year subscription. Some other
    paths to exclusivity would lead to something like TypeDrawers. Besides the fact
    that we already have one of those, I personally don't value that sort of environment
    -with the way that Chris Burton was treated for example- and I think it's too
    culturally limiting.\r\n\r\nBut there's also the elephant in the room that a forum
    like this can't be as relevant as it was a few years ago. People have -sadly-
    moved to shallow expression channels like Twitter, from being totally public (opening
    themselves up to challenges) to being semi-public and conversing with people they
    mostly agree with. Technological improvements have facilitated the manifestation
    of that human weakness. Typophile doesn't have to play along with that, even if
    it means being less active. Quantity does not replace quality - we do however
    need an adjustment in quality.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-04 16:54:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Feel free to send Jared a private email if you don't want anybody else to
    react. (Just like Chris Burton \"should\" have done, right?)\r\n\r\nI told you
    my opinion of why my post count isn't being shown. What do <em>you</em> think?
    You can be afraid of speculation, but you can't make others fear it. BTW your
    <em>speculation</em> (I'll kindly not speculate about how you decide to make exceptions)
    concerning my posting habits is completely wrong. Furthermore, you clearly don't
    need to \"speculate\" as to what Jared is thinking in order to have an opinion
    on which of those two things is worse. And if the \"facts\" are so important for
    you to form an opinion, why not ask?\r\n\r\nAlso, an additional/restricted board
    would still be part of Typophile. Just like the ID board, which is why it casts
    a bad light on the whole. And if you really believe that the additional/restricted
    board would feel not part of Typophile, why bother when we already have TypeDrawers?
    In fact Typophile and TypeDrawers are more part of the same thing than not. The
    fence is a cozy illusion.\r\n\r\nMost of all, don't assume I wouldn't be allowed
    into the additional/restricted board. Then what? Here's an idea: why not make
    TypeDrawers -where I will never show up- even more to your liking by taking an
    honorable stand against Chris Burton's ejection? Especially since you <em>were</em>
    involved. So please do get your \"facts\" from Jared and James instead of simply
    looking my way for somebody to scapegoat.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-04 18:07:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: In answer to the OP, TypeDrawers provides a place where type drawers can discuss
    the things that type drawers discuss, without having a certain judgemental and
    moralizing voice dominate every conversation.
  created: '2013-04-04 19:42:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hrant: \"Feel free to send Jared a private email if you don't want anybody
    else to react.\"\r\n\r\nOh, I don't mind if you react. \r\n\r\n\"The fence is
    a cozy illusion.\"\r\n\r\nSo why all the whining?\r\n\r\n\"Most of all, don't
    assume I wouldn't be allowed into the additional/restricted board.\"\r\n\r\nNot
    at all, I was imagining you as the head moderator. The Typophile Shop can sell
    Typophile Flags, and you can wrap yourself in one of them and be the first in
    line to bestow justice and equity on all of the good Typophile people of the world.
    \r\n\r\n\"why not [...] tak[e] an honorable stand against Chris Burton's ejection?
    \"\r\n\r\nAs i understand it, you want me to suggest Typedrawers allow people
    to post private messages without the authors permission, straight to the board.
    I will do so at the next bloodletting and eyeball tattooing session of the committee
    to screen the unwashed. Honorable stand taken, say no more. \r\n\r\n\"...looking
    my way for somebody to scapegoat.\"\r\n\r\nDo not over-inflate. Otherwise, if
    I didn't answer, I don't know what you are talking about, but I read shades of
    Kafka mixed with a little tiny baby Milton, and a large dose of Muhammad Ali,
    (from the first Frazier fight). "
  created: '2013-04-04 22:39:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't want to nitpick every logical fallacy and mischaracterization, so
    I'll just focus on the big ones.\r\n\r\nChris Burton did not post a private message
    to TypeDrawers. He posted a private message to Typophile, whereby <em><strong>I</strong></em>
    advised him that was not correct behavior, whereby he promptly removed it:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/101666#comment-549059\r\n\r\nWhat
    I think anybody who thinks something went wrong (your \"I don't think Mr. Burton
    being ejected form typedrawers is a good thing\") should do is complain, because
    not expressing moral preferences leads to immoral environments. But that's just
    me - somebody who values something that Typophile is and TypeDrawers isn't.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-04 23:51:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, it doesn't make sense that I'm that much of a singularity. Note that
    I'm not the only one who's banned; there are at least four people now (but probably
    more, certainly many who won't know until they try). And do you not believe James
    Puckett when he states that my exclusion is only a side-benefit? If you think
    he's confused or lying, what should you feel/do?\r\n\r\nAlso, I'm sure you realize
    -and hopefully you can openly admit- that I don't try to get people to do what
    I consider the Right Thing as much these days. However I actually believe it's
    <em>inappropriate forum behavior</em> to suggest that expressing moral preferences
    has no place in the health of a community, because silence can lead to an erosion
    of community morals. So why would your type of view of proper behavior get priority
    over my type? And how is expressing morals worse than your first post of October
    4 here?\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/96774?page=1\r\n\r\nSo for example, for people
    like David who think Chris Burton's ejection from TypeDrawers was not a good thing
    (and covering it up certainly can't make it better) is complaining about it good
    or bad? That <em>is</em> a moral stance. Communities naturally exhibit vectors
    of moral pressure - think of it as feedback to help everybody know how others
    feel, and thereby better predict future reactions, promoting overall harmony.
    Excluding that from a community puts it at greater risk, not lesser. It can never
    only be about content - that's inhuman. Or: the morals are content too.\r\n\r\nExample:
    There was a regular in the ID section who had a massive library of pirated fonts
    and used software to identify them for people. He had no qualms about suggesting
    blatantly plagiarized fonts, and helping out people who admitted to pirating the
    fonts he would recommend, and the only reason he stopped IDing outright pirated
    fonts was that he was warned he'd get kicked off. Thanks to the concerted efforts
    of a few people <em>who exerted moral pressure</em> he seems to not come here
    any more. It took about 3 months I think, and now Typophile is slightly better
    for it. We are all moderators.\r\n\r\nSo let me ask this: Is font piracy morally
    wrong? If you see it happen on Typophile (which you occasionally would if you
    spent enough time in the ID section) should you complain?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-04 23:53:35'
- author:
    name: hashiama
    picture: 112147
  body: "<blockquote>\"In answer to the OP, TypeDrawers provides a place where type
    drawers can discuss the things that type drawers discuss, without having a certain
    judgemental and moralizing voice dominate every conversation.\"</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    see."
  created: '2013-04-05 00:38:05'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nJust wanted to thank you for the consistent moral support.
    Really do appreciate it.\r\n\r\n\r\nDavid, \r\n\r\nWhat we both know is that you
    initiated what happened. Within about 15 minutes of publishing that discussion,
    you automatically advised people to ignore me, as you stated. Why? What I wrote
    was an honest question regarding the easy possibility of pirating webfonts (especially
    since that format can be used on majority of platforms). \"Why wouldn't WT use
    a simple method of encoding their syntax much like Typekit and other distributors?\".
    To me that doesn't sound like I have an ulterior motive, that I'm seeking attention
    or being a \"dick\" as James put it. It was a simple question in which I honestly
    didn't understand why the webfonts weren't protected. Or more protected I should
    say as there seemed to be a minimal amount. Did I tweet WT about the issue? Absolutely.
    Did they contact me as a business should when it relies on other people/foundries
    to stay afloat? No. And why not, my email is easily accessible if you click the
    link in my bio? But please, don't take this to be my disliking of WT as I have/still
    do recommend them. It was more about foundries/individuals that work hard producing
    these fonts and WT either, not taking necessary procedures to keep them from being
    pirated, not knowing about the issue or even the possibility that they figured
    what they had in place was enough to work. I was looking out for people like you
    which is why I'm shocked to have received that type of reaction. Even if you disagreed
    with my discussion, you've mentioned that you didn't agree with me being banned,
    so why didn't you raise the issue with James? Or even simply apologize when I
    told you my intentions? I don't have animosity towards you or anyone over there.
    The way it was handled I think was a bit overboard especially as someone that's
    new in the type community. "
  created: '2013-04-05 01:23:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Lessee, the enemy of my enemy's enemy's enemy's ... enemy is ???\r\nan enema?"
  created: '2013-04-05 02:54:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>Did I tweet WT about the issue? Absolutely. </em>\r\n\r\nSo you
    stood on a rooftop and shouted in WebType's direction that their fonts were exposed
    and open to easy illicit downloading? I think David's suggestion on Type Drawers
    that it would have been preferable if you hand emailed them was entirely reasonable.\r\n\r\nI
    agree with David that you should not have been banned from Type Drawers over this.
    In general, I'd prefer a democratically run forum to King James' sometimes heavy
    handed and arbitrary rule. But he pays the bills, and I'm not about to lecture
    him on how he should run it. I'm not yet sure how long I'll stick around Type
    Drawers."
  created: '2013-04-05 02:59:24'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<blockquote>I think that encoding font files as base64 strings into the CSS
    files, does not make them more secure, only more \"obscure\"</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's
    very true. But the benefit of encoding the syntax is that majority of people do
    not know how to decode it. And that's much better than being able to simply go
    to a site that is using the webfont you want and being able to download it to
    your machine for that person to pirate or even use it on their own site. That's
    how easy it is and that's what I was trying to bring to attention. With Typekit
    it takes much more knowledge and effort to do this and that's how it should be.\r\n\r\nOh
    and some have speculated that you can't install certain webfont formats, such
    as .woff and that just isn't true. It's actually sad how simple it is."
  created: '2013-04-05 03:01:13'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "<blockquote>\"Why wouldn't WT use a simple method of encoding their syntax
    much like Typekit and other distributors?\"</blockquote>\r\n\r\nChris, on the
    technical/security aspect:\r\nI think that encoding font files as base64 strings
    into the CSS files, does not make them more secure, only more \"obscure\" ( http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Security_through_obscurity
    ) but people already know how to decode those strings. It was never a secret since
    encoding/decoding files into the css its a common optimization practice (for example
    for encoding icons or image files to reduce HTTP requests). This is evident since
    there are already lots of 'tk-rips' floating around. And, in fact, they don't
    even need to decode those strings. Technically, developers can just grab the CSS
    files 'as is' and use it for other websites. The only thing stopping users from
    doing that are ethics and the license text included in the css files as a comment.\r\n\r\nBut
    more important, it creates a problem for the webfont provider and a PITA for the
    legit users/webmasters: As the font are stored in the individual CSS files of
    each website and not linked to the real font files on a server, each time you
    update hinting or fix problems in the fonts, you need to force all your users
    to \"republish\" their kits in order to see the upgrades. Instead, if you keep
    the files in the server instead of encoding them on CSS files, each time you upgrade
    the fonts on the server all users get the upgrade on the fly, automatically. No
    \"republish your kits\" action needed.\r\n\r\nThe best protection scheme for the
    foundries and easy of use for the webmasters, so far, is to keep the files on
    the server AND check for the HTTP_referrer before serving the fonts files. This
    way, people who look into the CSS files will see the links to the font files,
    but if people try to grab them: they can't (all they will get is a 403 Forbidden
    error) as the access to the files is denied to those having an incorrect HTTP_referrer
    header.\r\n\r\nOf course, the HTTP_referrer can also be faked, but I think it's
    a bit more complex.\r\nSaddly, there is not a better solution yet.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\"Why
    wouldn't WT use a simple method of encoding their syntax much like Typekit and
    other distributors?\"</blockquote>\r\nNow that the technical side has been cleared..
    maybe they have simply decided that the \"encoding/republish\" scheme is simply
    adding an unneeded extra layer of complexity for both, themselves as providers
    and their users as webmasters, that does not worth it, given the very low increase
    of security they may provide.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-05 03:02:08'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<blockquote>That's why I recommend the \"link to files/check HTTP_referrer
    before serving\" method.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI'm going to have to read up on that.
    Thanks for mentioning it."
  created: '2013-04-05 03:09:49'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "That's why I recommend the \"link to files/check HTTP_referrer before serving\"
    method.\r\nI guess that's the one FontDeck and Typoteque are using... but can't
    be sure."
  created: '2013-04-05 03:10:37'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<blockquote>So you stood on a rooftop and shouted in WebType's direction
    that their fonts were exposed and open to easy illicit downloading? I think David's
    suggestion on Type Drawers that it would have been preferable if you hand emailed
    them was entirely reasonable.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI wouldn't say I stood on a
    rooftop and shouted to Webtype. I notified them that they had a vulnerability
    which I also emailed them about. Also, David wrote me a message before suggesting
    that I email them. But my discussion wasn't about notifying Webtype. It was about
    discussing why they didn't use a better method. Meaning, was there minimal solution
    enough compared to Typekit?\r\n\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I agree with David that you
    should not have been banned from Type Drawers over this. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    believe hrant spoke up and stated that I shouldn't have been banned which, in
    return, David agreed."
  created: '2013-04-05 03:14:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, since Twitter requires one to be followed to convey what one wrote
    (barring a specific Google search, which however is generally hypothetical) it's
    not equivalent to shouting from a rooftop. That said I do agree that it should
    not have come before (or even concurrent to) a private email. HOWEVER, this does
    not excuse: the domineering reaction, which notably did not include a private
    email; the rabid barring of a member in good standing; and most of all the continuing
    total silence from all involved parties* rivaling the best that North Korea can
    muster.\r\n\r\n* Pardon me for thinking that one party being forced to talk about
    it on Typophile isn't exactly a resolution.\r\n\r\nWhen people who want to be
    on your side act poorly, you have to complain. If you can't get them to modify
    their behavior, you have to publicly distance yourself from them. This is how
    society works - don't shoot the messenger.\r\n\r\nSorry for moralizing, Nick -
    in toto that's part of the solution, not the problem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-05 05:36:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Mr. Burton: \"...you automatically advised people to ignore me, as you stated.
    Why?\"\r\n\r\nLol. As I emailed to you, I told our Webtype support staff NOT to
    do Tech Support via Twitter, to ignore further tweets from you on the subject
    because I was in email conversation with you. \r\n\r\nI didn't tell a whole board
    to ignore you as you write. \r\n\r\nMr. Burton: \"...you didn't agree with me
    being banned, \" \r\n\r\nI do agree with you being banned. You posted a private
    message from me to you, without asking me. Why this is not yet clear, is a mystery.
    \r\n\r\nWhatever you say your tweets or posts \"were about\" has been fluid.  Overarching
    the issue of web font security is that possession does not mean ownership. If
    it did, hell I'd rent out every dwelling in NYC, move in tenants while owners
    are out, make a handsome profit.\r\n\r\nAs I emailed you, you tweeted to TypeKit
    why they do not provide a CSS solution where You, the User can \"take the risk.\"
    Then, you turned around and tweeted that we didn't have enough security by providing
    a CSS solution. As someone that's new in the type community, maybe it's not that
    we're unknowing and ungrateful and you have found this to heroically try to mend
    it for us, but thanks. \r\n\r\nNow, to the roof top analogy, nahhh, it' hopeless...\r\n\r\nJohn
    Hudson: Lol, James is a bit heavy now, but I think James P. is learning moderation.
    Hrant, let's see... James, at great effort, publicly distanced himself from Hrant,
    \"as society is supposed to work\", according to Hrant. But Hrant is pursuing
    James to his new place, criticizing, and insulting James, and being proud of it.
    \r\n"
  created: '2013-04-05 13:14:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You previously wrote that Chris Burton's ejection was not a good thing; that
    was the only glimmer of hope in all of this. Now it seems you class abruptly punishing
    people who challenge your interests (even though it's not out of malice) over
    simply clearly explaining your position (which BTW you are still deftly avoiding
    - vague references to \"ownership\" don't cut it). To me that's nothing to be
    proud of - and don't pretend I am alone on this.\r\n\r\nHere's another insight:
    I've always been very civil to you, in spite of years of being attacked. This
    is because I see a lot of things in you that are good for type. But my disagreement
    with some of your views seems to be reason enough to persistently treat me with
    contempt. I am not useful to you, so I need to be silenced.\r\n\r\nSo the banning
    was a good move yet James is \"a bit heavy now\"? That sounds like apologism.
    You want distancing? Here's one: \"I'm not yet sure how long I'll stick around
    Type Drawers.\" But you treat John caustically too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-05 14:48:32'
- author:
    name: chrisburton
    picture: 125556
  body: "<blockquote>Lol. As I emailed to you, I told our Webtype support staff NOT
    to do Tech Support via Twitter, to ignore further tweets from you on the subject
    because I was in email conversation with you.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou never <em>emailed</em>
    me, actually. If you're referring to the private messages, well, that's not at
    all what you said. Also, I tweeted Webtype about this issue long before I created
    that discussion, which again, was about why they didn't use simple encoding methods
    and was not about making an announcement on the forum. Why you would feel the
    need to tell Webtype support staff not to reply after they already ignored me
    long ago, makes no sense.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I didn't tell a whole board to ignore
    you as you write.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWeird because I remember you strictly wrote
    \"forum\" at the end where you stated you advised people to ignore me and nothing
    about Webtype. And by what you said in the message, I took that as administrators
    and moderators, not the \"whole board\", as you put it.\r\n\r\n<blockquote><blockquote>I
    do agree with you being banned. You posted a private message from me to you, without
    asking me. Why this is not yet clear, is a mystery.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n<blockquote>bbg:
    \"No Hrant, I don't think either Mr. Burton being ejected form typedrawers, or
    your posts being uncounted are good things.\"</blockquote></blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    reason it is not clear is because you have contradicting opinions. Perhaps I shouldn't
    have posted that private correspondence so I apologize. Either way, it was immediately
    removed.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>you tweeted to TypeKit why they do not provide a CSS
    solution where You, the User can \"take the risk.\" Then, you turned around and
    tweeted that we didn't have enough security by providing a CSS solution.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhy
    would I be taking a risk? Typekit (and many others) encodes their @font-face syntax
    where the font location is masked. Making it much harder for the average person
    to be able to illegally download the font.\r\n\r\n\r\nAs I stated previously,
    I have no animosity towards you. Even with the additional antagonistic and rude
    comments in your last post which I'm not going to respond to.\r\n "
  created: '2013-04-05 20:59:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Perhaps I shouldn't have posted that private correspondence so I apologize.\"\r\n\r\nAccepted.
    Sorry if I insulted you or deprived you of immediate support unrelated to your
    licensed use our products. \r\n\r\nGood luck with your web design. "
  created: '2013-04-08 21:07:36'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: I think TypeDrawers might not be perfect but its exchanges are more professional
    and 'noise-free.'
  created: '2013-06-07 21:17:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The longevity of a thing is inversely proportional to its basis on negativity.\r\nhttp://typedrawers.com/discussion/740/i-am-done-with-typedrawers\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-14 01:09:39'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: '!'
  created: '2014-10-14 01:15:30'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Read further, Hrant. Stephen Coles has stepped up to run the site.
  created: '2014-10-14 18:10:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, good news. With Stephen's positivity it will have more longevity.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-14 18:31:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Example: the new \"there are no pre-requisites for membership\" is an Astronomical
    Unit better than the old \"the moderators know who the real experts are\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-22 18:49:05'
date: '2013-03-24 08:24:30'
title: TypeDrawer?

---
