---
author:
  name: hashiama
  picture: 112147
body: "A [[http://www.canberra.edu.au/typeface|competition]]\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\n\u2026\r\nthe
  University of Canberra has launched The Canberra Centenary Typeface Design Competition
  - an international challenge to the world\u2019s finest typeface designers to capture
  the style, spirit, prestige and character of Australia\u2019s capital city.\r\n\r\nThe
  winning design, which will receive AUD$10,000, will be selected by a jury of distinguished
  Typographers and Designers. \r\n\u2026\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat does Typophile
  think of this? Anyone plan on entering?"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/101598\r\n\r\nI have trouble stopping myself from
    competing in anything, but the entry fee might be a deal-breaker for me. I <em>do</em>
    have a sneaky plan for a low-effort entry with a decent chance, but before I commit
    I need to know who the jury is.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 16:35:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Should we boycott the Olympics too?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 16:41:02'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: "How is this not a spec work? \r\n\r\nIn the end, there's 1 winner and a bunch
    of losers. So the organizers effectively ask all but one participant to work for
    free. So just ask yourself if you want to get involved with people that think
    this is an acceptable arrangement (even if you are OK with not winning and writing
    off the time spent on this)."
  created: '2013-03-23 16:45:10'
- author:
    name: apankrat
  body: Don't get me started on Olympics.
  created: '2013-03-23 16:49:33'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I'm opposed to spec work too, although in this case I assume that losing
    entries would still be marketable fonts, unlike many design contests (like designing
    a poster for an event) where a losing entry can't easily be repurposed.\r\n\r\nI
    can understand the appeal of a contest to someone just starting out, or if there's
    a big prize (which isn't typical), but in general spec work is an odd setup that's
    virtually unheard of in other professions. If you asked ten accountants to do
    your taxes and you'll only pay the one who got you the biggest refund, you'd get
    laughed at. Same thing in most other professions. Professionals should be paid
    for their work."
  created: '2013-03-23 17:20:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, but other professions do have things like price-matching; for example
    in tax preparation some outfits \"guarantee\" a maximum return. In any field there
    are different ways people compete. Design is not particularly \"corrupt\".\r\n\r\nProfessionals
    should be paid for their work when they insist on being paid for their work. Some
    of them willingly give up guaranteed pay for the chance to compete for something
    better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 17:33:59'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>OK, what about an ice hockey tournament? Do you think any kind
    of competition is bad?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nDecided by jury?\r\n\r\nIt's pathetic
    to see a capital city beg for entry fees. No Australian company would want to
    front this effort? But on the other hand since the city itself was designed via
    an international design competition I guess it's in keeping with what little tradition
    it has.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-23 17:38:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What do you mean, jury? Yes, there's a jury. Do you think a jury is necessarily
    bad? Even a footrace has a jury (the guys watching for violations).\r\n\r\nBut
    I agree that having an entry fee is not OK.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>No Australian company
    would want to front this effort?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhy limit it like that? Do
    you refuse work outside Vancouver?\r\n\r\nBTW, do you think the design of Canberra
    is flawed in some way? Without specifics (which I don't expect somebody with zero
    city-planning expertise to be able to point out) you can't complain.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 17:44:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, what about an ice hockey tournament? Do you really believe that any kind
    of competition is bad?\r\n\r\nI think spec work is bad for only part of the design
    industry: the establishment, that wants to make sure there are affordable beginners
    to recruit (read: indenture) who are not afforded shortcuts to success. To me
    that's worse than an organization allowing non-establishment people to potentially
    get taken advantage of.\r\n\r\nThe main problem with things like this is usually
    that the people choosing the winner suck. But that's fixable to a good extent.\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you think about how Oak Knoll arrived at its new logo?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 17:52:17'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> In any field there are different ways people compete\r\n\r\nCompetition
    and price matching, sure, but that's not the same thing as working for free in
    the hope of \"winning\" and getting paid for your time."
  created: '2013-03-23 18:01:23'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Battlefields of engagement decided by jury ...what a concept. Perhaps with
    social media they already are.\r\n\r\nOne's own skill (or a team's skill) decides
    the outcome on the battlefield of engagement. But where one cannot directly engage
    the opponent then sure, jury/committee decision is a tried and true way. But who
    then sits on the jury?  \r\n\r\nAs far as planned cities go I'm of  a Usonian
    theory of 'grandeur'.  And without you having any apparent depth of architectural
    understanding Hrant, it's best for you to leave it at that ...and simply enjoy
    a ride with Google :) \r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-23 18:04:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I find the idea that every moment spent must result in material gain very
    peculiar.\r\n\r\nSpeculation is part of life. Think deeply about why the design
    establishment opposes it.\r\n\r\nWe're very lucky that \"spec work\" in type design
    almost always results in something supremely re-usable. This marks another big
    difference between type design and graphic design; we make <em>tools.</em>\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 18:14:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It's pathetic to see a capital city beg for entry fees.</em>\r\n\r\nNote
    that this competition is not being organised or even endorsed by any government
    entity: it is an initiative of the University of Canberra. This means, of course,
    that not only is it spec work that you have to pay to have considered by the judges,
    there is no guarantee that the winning selection will ever be used in any official
    capacity as the typeface of the city, although the university will assume 'an
    exclusive, royalty-free and irrevocable license in perpetuity' for the so-called
    winner.\r\n\r\nHrant, the design <em>profession</em> opposes spec work because
    it undermines the profession as a whole when people work for nothing. It creates
    an environment in which customers and clients expect and then demand free work.
    It encourages the structuring of what should be fairly paid creative labour as
    'competitions', which are simply a way for corporations and other institutions
    to avoid paying proper fees to designers (and in some cases actually collect fees
    from them!)\r\n\r\nYour attempts to draw parallels with sporting competitions
    do not work, because generally speaking athletes are not being asked to invest
    in training, practice, equipment, etc. in order to participate in competitions:
    they are doing these things for the sake of participation in their chosen sports
    and the competitions exist to provide a showcase. If the athletes are professionals,
    they are paid for their participation, not for winning (although in some sports
    there are bonuses for winners); if they are amateurs then they are not paid whether
    they win or not.\r\n\r\nA better parallel would be this: ten people pay a fee
    to be allowed to work in a restaurant kitchen, they all work a nine hour shift,
    and then the chef decides which one of them will be paid. That should sound ridiculous,
    but something like it probably happens -- perhaps advertised as a 'competitive
    internship' --, because businesses are constantly trying to organise the labour
    market in a way that suits them rather than suits workers. To which I say ORGANISE!
    ...and if that means that professional design associations, like other forms of
    guild or union, prevent their members from engaging in spec work, that's a fair
    restriction to make for the good of the profession."
  created: '2013-03-23 18:36:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>there is no guarantee that the winning selection will ever be
    used in any official capacity as the typeface of the city</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOh,
    you mean like Unger's Capitolum and LettError's Twin? :-)  Note BTW that Capitolum
    now has a great life. Any \"losing\" font from this competition could too.\r\n\r\nYou
    explain yourself well, but I just don't buy that official party line (and I don't
    think you should equate \"the profession\" with all its members). I maintain that
    only the big boys (and those dreaming of being among them one day) really suffer
    from the existence of spec work. And the big boys determine what position AIGA
    etc. take.\r\n\r\nBTW, I think your restaurant scenario is just fine (it's just
    that kitchens aren't usually big enough for such parallelism; if they were it
    would save time). But the winner won't just be paid for those nine hours, he'll
    be given a job, presumably because he deserves it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 18:56:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I don't think uncompensated labour is 'just fine', and the fact that there
    are people desperate enough to engage in such competitions is simply evidence
    of the success of businesses in organising the labour market to suit themselves.\r\n\r\nYour
    notion that 'only the big boys' -- who they? -- suffer from spec work is laughable.
    If they're that big, they probably aren't suffering at all. The people who are
    suffering are always the people who are being taken advantage of and doing work
    -- work that contributes value or profit to someone else -- while not being paid."
  created: '2013-03-23 18:59:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The establishment suffers because the shortcut to success threatens the pool
    of desperate but talented beginners who will work like slaves for cheap. <em>They</em>
    want to be the ones to take advantage of the desperates!\r\n\r\nOrganize labor
    any way you want. But don't punish the non-peons.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 19:07:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW John, why not organize a font labor union that forbids free fonts? Don't
    free fonts \"create an environment in which customers and clients expect and then
    demand free work\"? At least this competition will be awarding good money.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 19:16:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I've certainly made the case to Dave Crossland and other libre font developers
    that they're serving the interests of corporations like Google far more than they
    are serving the interests of either their colleagues or of end users. Dave and
    I have had some good conversations about this, and I made the same case when he
    and some nice people from Google took me out for dinner at TypeCon last year.
    [I also think that webfonts will get a bad name from being used for tracking,
    but that's another discussion.]
  created: '2013-03-23 20:19:48'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> the shortcut to success threatens the pool of \r\n> desperate but talented
    beginners \r\n\r\nAn unemployed beginner wouldn't turn down a job at a design
    firm so he could continue entering spec contests. You can't make a living working
    spec; most of time you'll lose and get nothing, and contests with big payoffs
    are rare.\r\n\r\nProfessionals oppose spec work for a number of reasons, but I
    think the fundamental one is that if it isn't opposed it may someday become a
    common practice even with everyday jobs. Doing an occasional spec job in your
    spare time is one thing, but trying to work that way for a living isn't practical
    since you won't get paid for most of the hours you work."
  created: '2013-03-23 20:48:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Of course you can't live on spec.\r\nBut there are two \"good\" reasons design
    firms oppose it:\r\n- When a beginner wins recognition, his price goes up.* The
    more than happens, the more money the firms have to spend hiring.\r\n- A spec
    bid takes the place of a traditional bid = less money for the design firm.\r\n\r\n*
    It's the same reason many established design firms enter competitions, and brandish
    a win like a club.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 22:24:08'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Thanks John, shame on the University of Canberra for promoting spec work.
    \r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-23 23:27:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "FWIW, I had asked them who the jurors are, and here is the [relevant] part
    of their reply:\r\n\"\r\nMike Chandler, the doyen of Australian Typographers\r\nRod
    Quinn, Editor in Chief of the Canberra Times newspaper\r\nGemma Obrien, Typeface
    designer, illustrator and art director\r\nMatt Johnson, Creative Director (and
    type lover) Grey Advertising\r\n\"\r\nA fifth juror is being selected/confirmed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-28 01:38:32'
- author:
    name: hashiama
    picture: 112147
  body: "As a designer who studied and worked in Melbourne I've never heard of Mike
    Chandler\u2026"
  created: '2013-03-28 01:44:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, Australia is not known for its typography. Which makes it hard -but
    not impossible- to find good jurors locally. What are some big[ger] names?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-28 02:29:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My fonts sell quite well in Australia and New Zealand, so there is obviously
    a highly informed typographic culture \u201Cdown under\u201D."
  created: '2013-03-28 17:10:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Interesting. BTW have you noticed whether your sales are weak, average or
    strong in the Netherlands?\r\n\r\nhhp"
  created: '2013-03-28 23:04:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW it looks like the winning designer gains the rights to sell the typeface
    after three years. So the ~$10K isn't embarrassingly low after all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-29 05:11:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, I\u2019m afraid I don\u2019t pay much attention to how my sales fare
    in different countries, so although I did notice Australia was good with one major
    vendor, I can\u2019t say how Netherlands sales are in general."
  created: '2013-03-29 06:48:33'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[to follow]'
  created: '2013-03-29 08:18:23'
- author:
    name: hashiama
    picture: 112147
  body: "[[http://www.letterbox.net.au/|Stephen Banham]],\r\n[[http://www.hofstede.com.au/|Dominic
    Hofstede]],\r\n[[http://www.markgowing.com/|Mark Gowing]],\r\n[[http://www.chaseandgalley.com/
    |Stuart Geddes]],\r\n[[http://www.thenarrows.org |Warren Taylor]],\r\n[[http://www.bradhaylock.com/|Brad
    Haylock]].\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Edenspiekermann|Niko Spelbrink]]\r\n[[http://www.theletterd.com.au/|Dan
    Pike]]\r\n\r\nI think might be better qualified \u2013 but probably less enamoured
    about judging \"spec work\"\u2026 There are probably a few more people in education
    who I'm not so familiar with.\r\n\r\nDan Milne & Wendy Ellerton are also t]m grads\r\n\r\n[edit:
    added links]"
  created: '2013-03-29 10:37:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>it looks like the winning designer gains the rights to sell the typeface
    after three years. </em>\r\n\r\nThey changed the original terms of the competition,
    which were exclusive perpetual rights to exclusive rights for three years, doubtless
    in response to complaints from potential entrants."
  created: '2013-03-29 17:00:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Kudos to them for being responsive and reasonable. If they indeed got enough
    such complaints, I wonder if that means many people who are supposedly against
    \"spec work\" will now secretly enter...  :-)\r\n\r\nNow if they can only be convinced
    to give back the entry fees in some generous way (see below); it's probably too
    late, but it would have been better to lower the award amount and do that.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI
    remain unconvinced that \"spec work\" reduces overall earnings, especially in
    type design. Here's why:\r\n- A typeface, being a tool and not an end-product,
    is eminently re-purposable.\r\n- In this case the winner gets ~$10K for three
    years of exclusivity, which isn't bad for many people. Not every type designer
    lives in the West...\r\n- Many organizations can't justify the sorts of budgets*
    that large studios demand (because they have a lot of expenses, like a clothing
    store in Beverly Hills versus one that sells the same stuff in Downey) but they
    can afford ~$10K. Imagine every city about the size of Canberra or larger paying
    for a typeface (that can be resold after a few years) - that's a lot of money
    coming into the field (it just doesn't end up in the pockets of the big studios).
    Remember, most people still think all fonts are supposed to be free...\r\n\r\n*
    I remember how people were outraged that British Airways paid $100K for their
    custom typeface.\r\n\r\nThis anti-spec talk reminds me of the classical delusion
    that font piracy has a large impact on income. There is no evidence, only protectionist
    paranoia, promulgated by the big players.\r\n\r\nAlso, I've been thinking about
    the entry fee, and there's actually a good reason not to make entry free: they
    would be swamped. HOWEVER there was a better way to handle it, so they don't look
    like cheapskates: pass along all the entry fees to the winner (or distribute it
    among honorable mentions) or donate it to SoTA, ATypI or a local typographic non-profit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-29 17:20:13'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "FYI, as part of the technical research I am doing for a new book on economics,
    I'm tracking \"spec work\" as it applies to several fields... in 2012, alone,
    an average of 4,695 graphic-design (which includes logo design) spec RFPs were
    issued per week throughout 7 countries of western Europe... and this is an increase
    of 425% from 2011. Median average compensation per transaction: 950 Euros. Dozens
    of web sites are emerging to exploit this growing trend...\r\n\r\nIf a car manufacturer
    solicits ideas for new energy saving technology, do they pay all the various companies,
    universities, or individuals who attempt to develop new technology, but were not
    ultimately chosen by the car manufacturer?\r\n\r\nWhy should anyone get paid for
    anything that ultimately is not used... whether the anything is technology, or
    logos or fonts? \r\n\r\nEven the advertising industry is evolving toward results-based
    compensation."
  created: '2013-03-29 21:46:46'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>If a car manufacturer solicits ideas for new energy saving technology,
    do they pay all the various companies, universities, or individuals who attempt
    to develop new technology, but were not ultimately chosen by the car manufacturer?</em>\u201D\r\n\r\nIs
    that a rhetorical question? Of course they do. It\u2019s called \u201Cfunded R&D.\u201D\r\n\r\nAnd
    if car a company <em>does</em> put a shout out to the tune of \u201Cdesign us
    some parts, but if we don\u2019t use them, you don\u2019t get paid\u201D that\u2019s
    still garbage spec work.\r\n\r\nNot a single field in academia \u2014 that I know
    of \u2014 pure or applied, follows this spec-style practice. And if they do, this
    is a sad day for me indeed."
  created: '2013-03-29 23:25:00'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Why should anyone get paid for \r\n> anything that ultimately is not used\r\n\r\nBecause
    they did the job they were hired to do. \r\n\r\nAnytime you hire a consultant
    \u2014 whether it's a designer, accountant, architect, business consultant, or
    whatever \u2014 there's a chance you won't like the results. That's why it's important
    to chose the consultant carefully. But as long as they meet the contract's specifications
    and do the job in a professional manner, they are entitled to be paid."
  created: '2013-03-30 00:18:16'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I wonder what the percentage is of those who actually earn a living from
    responding to spec work and spec work alone?\r\n\r\nOut of 100 who take the bait
    ... how many go on to earn a living? Um ...only one?\r\n\r\nSo, what is the average
    response to those 4,695 RFPs per week that you cite? In total how many fools are
    there that fall by the wayside? Or I guess a better way to phrase it is ... In
    total how many fools are there that get run over by spec work.\r\n\r\nCan you
    imagine ... doing  spec work all day for a month or two. \r\n\r\nThat's a tough
    way to live the dream. \r\n\r\nShame on the University of Canberra for promoting
    spec work. \r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-30 03:13:43'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>Not a single field in academia \u2014 that I know of \u2014 pure
    or applied, follows this spec-style practice. And if they do, this is a sad day
    for me indeed.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI would love to hear the response from the
    University of Canberra teacher's union when the entire student body issue RFPs
    for their courses.\r\n\r\nThen perhaps the University of Canberra would begin
    to get feel / taste for spec work! And they could give the potential profs a break
    ... by having only a 10 dollar submission fee.\r\n\r\nTurnabout is fair play ...no?\r\n\r\nSpec
    work ... live the dream!\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-30 03:23:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What's the percentage of people who play poker who earn a living playing
    poker? Since when is a person supposed to have only one way of making money? And
    since when is money the only reward?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-30 03:31:36'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Hrant, I hope every time there is the slightest chance of you doing anything
    at all ... you are denied payment after you have submitted the work.  Sorry, but
    they simply chose someone else. \r\n\r\nThen go walk over ... because you can't
    afford transportation ... to the grocery store and tell them you'll pay them after
    you have eaten their food.\r\n\r\nAnd as for rent, hydro, internet, etc., etc...\r\n\r\nSpec
    work ... live the dream!\r\n\r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2013-03-30 04:26:06'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "Some are missing the bigger picture here:\r\n\r\nWe've merely accepted and
    adopted the doctrine that anything that adds to the Gross Domestic Product of
    the marketplace is a good thing. But since automation has replaced human labor
    in the agriculture, mining, and manufacturing sectors, human labor has shifted
    toward services. Services now accounts for 72% of the global output. But exactly
    how effective is the output? Harvard Business Review published a paper, as an
    example, that showed US markets spending US$ 50 billion in \"change management
    consulting\" services... and that a full 70% of those services failed in their
    original objectives.\r\n\r\nThe reason services often fail in their objectives
    is that we live (and produce/consume) believing that \"quantity\" is the key of
    success. Quantity of apples. Quantity of cars.\r\n\r\nBut, in services... \"quality\",
    not quantity is the key to success. Problem is, we don't know how to do \"quality\"...
    we are still stuck in Marx's theory of \"labor value\"... \r\n\r\nAnd BTW, very
    little of today's US intellectual property originates from \"funded R&D\"... Stanford
    University, as an example receives no federal funding of consequence. The bulk
    of its funding comes from commercialized intellectual property (such as 2% of
    all IBM Global Services revenues). I wrote the business plan and contract.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    if I remember correctly, the Dutch retailer Designstoel24 a few months ago, ran
    a facebook campaign to redesign their logo:\r\nhttp://www.facebook.com/Designerchairs24\r\n\r\nAnd
    here is an example of crowd-sourced creativity:\r\nhttp://99designs.com/\r\n\r\nSo,
    how to compete with the future? Or, do you hold on tight to orthodoxy for as long
    as you can?\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2013-03-30 09:32:16'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> But, in services... \"quality\", not quantity is the key to success.\r\n\r\nAre
    you implying that professional, experienced designers can't do quality work? That's
    news to the thousands of designers who make a good living and have happy clients.\r\n\r\nDoes
    a university pick the one \"best\" professor to pay in each department and the
    rest get nothing?  Does a retail store pick the one \"best\" employee to pay and
    the rest get nothing? Of course not. People are hired to do a job and they get
    paid for their work. \r\n\r\nOrganizations asking for spec work think they are
    getting a great deal, but generally they aren't. Most participants will be beginners
    or designers having trouble making a living. A professional designer with a successful
    business has little reason to enter a contest. It's simply not a practical way
    to make a living. And rarely does winning a spec contest carry any prestige. "
  created: '2013-03-30 16:23:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The reality is that you can't never pay people (although I will point out
    that in many countries -where people don't have a lot of expenses, and have family
    members who can support them- people do go unpaid for <em>months</em> because
    it's better to go to work than simply offer your job to somebody more desperate)
    but you can certainly not pay them when they're initially proving themselves.
    As Michael implies, you have to adapt to reality.\r\n\r\nI think an organization
    can indeed get good results from spec work (hey, good results aren't even guaranteed
    when you hire a big studio, plus you've spent a ton more money) as long as they
    have qualified people choosing the winner. This is admittedly usually lacking.\r\n\r\nLet
    me ask -again- what do people think of the Oak Knoll logo? They paid $500 <em>store
    credit</em> for it. It's peanuts, but it's better than not being able to afford
    Landor.\r\n\r\nAlso, again, when it comes to type design attempting a spec bid
    isn't very wasteful at all; unless it's a very unusual project the results are
    usually entirely re-usable. Plus remember, in this case it's only for three years.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-30 16:23:44'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "JamesM,\r\n\r\nI certainly do not imply that \"professional\" (insert any
    occupation here) do not do quality work. But Francis Ford Coppola once commented
    about \"professional\" film-making that he dreams of the day when \u201COne day
    some little fat girl in Ohio is going to be the new Mozart.\u201D\r\n\r\nSee short
    video clip here:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iSePbQVR284\r\n\r\nIn short,
    you need to get over your ego that you or anyone else is a \"professional\" and
    thus, better than some \"non-professional\"...\r\n\r\nThe world is full of Mozarts...
    and by the way... they are transforming the world... \r\n\r\nWatch out! THEY are
    coming !\r\n\r\n\r\nOh yeah... to neatly tie two threads together: Papyrus typeface
    may not be the preferred cup of tea by so-called \"professionals\", but I have
    yet to hear anyone from 20th Century Fox or even \"non-professional\" audience
    members complain that Papyrus was a crappy choice for the Poster design...\r\n\r\nQuality
    is in the eye of the beholder, not the artist."
  created: '2013-03-30 16:53:21'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>So, how to compete with the future? Or, do you hold on tight
    to orthodoxy for as long as you can?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe only orthodoxy worth
    bringing forward is the tried and true. Recognize exploitation for what it is
    and who it benefits and who gets run over.\r\n\r\nHow many people earn a living
    responding to RFPs day in and day out ...that's the proof. Our way of life ...
    that is the change of money for staple goods (ie food, hydro, etc.,) is built
    on the foundation that all people can earn a living.\r\n\r\nSo, answer the question
    ... how many people earn a living responding to RFPs day in and day out? Of those
    4,695 RFPs per week that you cite ...how many of those who respond to those RFPs
    earn a living from doing spec work? That business 'model' is obviously unsustainable.
    Or else you would have answered the question in your favor.\r\n\r\nStop speculating!
    Stop exploiting the vulnerable in our society. \r\n\r\nAre your research services
    awarded via spec work?\r\n\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-30 16:54:22'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>Quality is in the eye of the beholder, not the artist.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nPure
    100% ignorance.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-30 16:57:10'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "5star... not everyone's cup of tea, I understand, but go back to read Schiller,
    Kant, Hagel, and Burke... and each of these non-ignorant folks understood that
    there is a relationship between subject and object... it is the energy flowing
    between subject and object that determines beauty or sublimity...\r\n\r\nEven
    Michelangelo once commented that that his job was to chip away pieces of stone
    to reveal the art that God Himself had designed... the artist's job was, in his
    view, to get out of the way of God...\r\n\r\nLike I said, not everyone's cup of
    tea..."
  created: '2013-03-30 17:07:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michael, people don't have to explicitly complain about something for it
    to be bad. Papyrus wouldn't have been a bad choice if people complained; Papyrus
    <em>was</em> a bad choice because it cheapens the end-result (since it's so over-used).
    Consider that Cameron paid $100K for a language to be invented for Avatar, and
    that made the movie better; nobody would have complained if he had just used English.
    But it was still a great investment. A custom -or at least rare- font would have
    been the same.\r\n\r\nNeil, we've been suffering <em>exploitation</em> at the
    hands of the big studios for decades.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>how many people earn
    a living responding to RFPs day in and day out?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou answer
    my stupid question (about playing poker) and I'll answer yours.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-30 17:19:22'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Hrant, my question is not stupid ... but thanks anyway for trying to lower
    the discussion to your level.\r\n\r\nAnd I asked first... I still wait Micheal's
    answer ...sorry not yours because you're not doing the research, he is.  \r\n\r\nIf
    you want the stats on poker payouts etc., get in touch with those who drive the
    industry.\r\n\r\nDid your grocery store accept your RFP?\r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-30 17:38:05'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "oobimichael , the passage you cite is typical of Michelangelo who places
    himself as THE instrument of God. Hence the painting...\r\n\r\nSo ya, Van Gogh
    changed his brush strokes to appease spec work ... thanks for the laugh oobimichael!\r\n\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-03-30 17:44:33'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "5star... I think you are confusing a few different issues.\r\n\r\nFirst of
    all, we no longer live in an economy where we stick to Adam Smith's doctrine of
    mechanistic specialization and \"division of labor\"... it is entirely possible
    for someone to have multiple occupations, some being more full time, and some
    being part time...\r\n\r\nIt is entirely possible for a blue collar joe six pack
    type of person who on Monday is earning revenue from fixing someone's plumbing,
    and on Tuesday is earning revenue from creating a logo...\r\n\r\nThe concept of
    \"professional\" is old hat, man... get with the NEW program... diversify... live
    life... and contribute anything to anyone at anytime... no pretenses... no judgements...
    no ego... just true authentic service... where \"value\" is moment-to-moment...\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I am one of the weird folks who happened to answer an RFP which changed my life...
    you just never know..."
  created: '2013-03-30 17:54:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Neil, actually I sort of answered your question already. The point is, how
    does not making a living from spec work alone make spec work never desirable?
    How does playing poker on the side to have fun making some money (because you're
    good at it, even though there's also luck involved) necessarily mean one should
    become a full-time poker player?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-30 18:08:25'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> you need to get over your ego that you or anyone else \r\n> is a \"professional\"
    and thus, better than some \"non-professional\"...\r\n\r\nBut in most cases it's
    true. Now certainly there are amateurs and beginners who are talented,  but in
    most cases a professional who's had education, training and years of experience
    will be better.\r\n\r\n> But Francis Ford Coppola once commented...\r\n\r\nI'm
    a big fan of Francis Ford Coppola, and that's an interesting clip. But what he
    was saying was that modern technology makes it possible for non-professionals
    to make movies on a shoestring budget, and thus new talent may come from unexpected
    places. I agree totally, but I don't see it having much bearing on this discussion
    about the ethics of spec work.\r\n\r\nAnd incidentally, Francis Ford Coppola is
    a \"professional\", a category you seem to hold in low regard. And he's done very
    well, with international fame and fortune and he lives on vineyard he owns in
    Napa Valley, which I visited a few years ago (he's got a nice museum of movie
    artifacts). His daughter is also a talented professional filmmaker."
  created: '2013-03-30 20:00:16'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Hrant, buddy, your myopic understanding of nation building leaves me kinda
    feeling sorry for you. If you at all are interested in contributing to a healthy
    growing society then you must be aware of ...taxes.\r\n\r\nLet's back up a moment
    and consider the big picture. Tuff stuff like government money going to the unemployed,
    government money going to food stamps, government money going to pay for a nation
    of people needing medical expenses. That takes a certain percentage of people
    working all the time with a guaranteed income.\r\n\r\nSpec work undermines all
    of that. It undermines health care, it undermines unemployment payments, and whole
    host of other norms.\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n\r\nBecause with spec work ... crowdsourcing
    ... their is no guaranteed income. You can work all you like ... but you won't
    get paid. Out of a thousand people who work for a crowdsourced RFP ... only person
    will get paid. Meanwhile 999 people have no money and will therefore pay no taxes.
    Ergo the government raises no revenue from those nine hundred and ninety nine
    people! In fact they will grain the government's revenue. \r\n\r\nYou want Obama
    care ... pay for it!! You want unemployment benefits ... pay for it!! You want
    transportation infrastructures ...pay for it!! Spec work ... crowdsourcing ...
    only benefits the very very few and undermines a whole society of workers and
    their families.\r\n\r\nIt is you Hrant, that is confused. You are confusing a
    person's ability to do any sort of work with a person's VALUE of generating an
    income ... spec work only pays 1 person out of a 1,000 who work in hopes of payment
    for their services. 1 and only 1!\r\n\r\nFurthermore, in any competition that
    me or my friends have participated in (my friends play tournament chess and some
    play online poker too), there is always a prize amount payed out to the others
    who place finish ... 2nd, 3rd, etc.. Does spec work even do that much?\r\n\r\nSpec
    work will only undermine a healthy society ... and it amazes me why it hasn't
    been taken up on the Congressional level.  \r\n\r\nn.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-30 20:02:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're taking too long to make no sense.\r\n\r\nYou want guarantees? Try
    Mars.\r\n\r\nhhp"
  created: '2013-03-30 20:18:21'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "JamesM, please don't misunderstand me... I am NOT disrespectful of any profession
    or professional. What I AM attempting to communicate is that each one of us possesses
    MULTIPLE gifts, MULTIPLE opportunities to contribute to society... not simply
    via some outdated notion of a \"specialized title\"... a lawyer who in any specific
    moment might design a logo or font is just as capable, just as gifted (potentially)
    as Mathew Carter...\r\n\r\nMaybe to put this in somewhat metaphysical terms: we
    are all radio transmitters... capable of receiving and transmitting energy...
    no matter the energy...\r\n\r\nThere is an interesting Dutch documentary, \"The
    Sea That Thinks\" (if I remember correctly). The film-makers ask the question
    of people on the street: \"who are you?\"... the standard answers ensued: I'm
    a lawyer, or carpenter, waiter, etc... but we are not THAT.. we are more than
    our professions... we are the greater than the sum of our parts...\r\n\r\nDefining
    yourself as a specific type of professional is simply degrading yourself... you
    have much greater potential than that..."
  created: '2013-03-30 20:20:46'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "\r\n<blockquote>You're taking too long to make no sense.\r\n\r\nYou want
    guarantees? Try Mars.\r\n\r\nhhp</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAnd that's the extent of
    Hrant's argument ...LOL!\r\n\r\n...next.\r\n\r\nn.\r\n"
  created: '2013-03-31 03:38:29'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Oobimichael, we're not going to agree on everything but I agree with your
    point that we all have multiple talents. And I certainly wouldn't discourage anyone
    from trying new things and not defining their abilities in a narrow way.
  created: '2013-03-31 23:51:18'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Oobimichael, you wrote: \u201CQuality is in the eye of the beholder, not
    the artist.\u201D\r\n\r\nIn terms of type design, this is nonsense. In part, this
    is because it is a craft, not an art. Being a craft, there are substantial elements
    that are objective.\r\n\r\nIt is true that people can have multiple talents and
    interests. But a big part of type design skill is only possible through learning.
    No amount of raw inspiration can make up for ignorance of key principles. It is
    not like painting in that regard.\r\n\r\nFor my part, I am a significantly worse
    type designer than I could be, simply because I don\u2019t do more of it. That
    is a choice I have made, but I am always aware that I could be better at it if
    I devoted more time to it."
  created: '2013-04-01 18:58:56'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "Thomas... I respect your talents and experience as a craftsman... and the
    world is full of wonderful and responsible examples of not simply good craftspeople,
    but of really hard work to perfect one's craft... Michael Jordan, as an example
    was one of the most gifted athletes alive, yet he worked exceptionally hard on
    practicing his craft. Like I said, I can and do respect this.\r\n\r\nBut... what
    is also true that a 4 year old child can play Mozart masterfully... there are
    indeed people who possess something greater than a craft: no limitations.\r\n\r\nYour
    mind has told you that you haven't yet perfected your craft. That is only your
    mind. \"Let go Luke! Let the force guide you!\" as a fictional character once
    said... or various historical entities have also said throughout the ages in a
    bit different language.\r\n\r\nMany years ago, I was a business consultant, and
    happened to have had a client in Alaska. I flew from Denver to Anchorage, and
    met with the owner and staff. One of the salesmen raised his hand, and asked \"are
    you going to teach me how to sell to the local market here in Anchorage?\" My
    answer was of course, no... only he could know the nuances of his local market.
    But what I was able to teach him over the course of a few days was that \"the
    business\" was a hell of a lot more textured than just his salesmanship... there
    was the backoffice... there was bank relationships... there was industry influences...
    it was only his ego that was getting in the way... he thought HE was the center
    of the business... but the business had a lot of moving parts other than himself...
    in the weeks and months that followed, his sales increased exponentially because
    he saw a bigger picture...\r\n\r\nType designers are no different. Your egos simply
    get in the way sometimes. There is a bigger picture. And it has NOTHING AT ALL
    to do with your craft. It is something else.\r\n\r\nBTW, I wonder how the typeface
    design for Canberra is going?"
  created: '2013-04-01 22:25:20'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "Disney channel's version of Dancing with the Stars!:\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w30TFlJiRKA&feature=youtu.be\r\n\r\nYou
    do not have to be a \"professional\" to possess a gift... is this boy only an
    exception? Or are our closed minds the exception?\r\n\r\nAnd there are no lazy
    morons. There are indeed people who simply do not understand how to access their
    gifts and shine them forth. I was living in England during the time that M. Thatcher
    was closing the 'non-productive' mines, and I traveled around the country interviewing
    whole villages... listening to stories was an incredible experience. On so many
    occasions, I heard stories of bravery and courage being exhibited by people who
    were not expected by society to have courage. World War II soldiers who performed
    acts of bravery, courage, and innovation... but when they were younger at home,
    they were lazy or non-motivated... it sometimes takes changing one's environment
    to be faced with who you really are. For others, it is only a matter of changing
    their mind.\r\n\r\nWhat is the spark that turns stone into bone?\r\n\r\nReally,
    I wonder how Canberra is doing?"
  created: '2013-04-01 23:01:55'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Really, I wonder how Canberra is doing?\r\n\r\nWhy don't you ask them?
    Contact info is at the competition site."
  created: '2013-04-02 00:11:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Gift? Talent? Craft? Art?\r\n\r\nMichael said 'Quality is in the eye of the
    beholder', and Thomas rightly took issue with this on the sensible grounds that
    in type design there are plenty of objective criteria of quality, which have to
    do with type as a technical product intended for specific purpose. These criteria
    are independent of other qualities, including that of beauty, which is indeed
    in the eye of the beholder, and none of these qualities have anything to do with
    taste, which might even favour the ugly as well as the technically inferior."
  created: '2013-04-02 00:14:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, who switched the channel to Disney?!\r\n\r\nTelling lazy morons they
    can be president is not doing them a favor, it just helps you get their votes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-02 00:48:51'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: How can the average salescritter or truck driver tell the quality of a design?
  created: '2013-04-02 11:58:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just like with big chunks of the rest of life: unconsciously.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-02 16:18:27'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "subconsciously, supraconsciously, superconsciously... etc... what is TRUTH?
    Same question as what is QUALITY?\r\n\r\nEpistemology. Part 1: Object (a thing).
    Part 2: Subject (it's alive!!). Part 4: Beauty (harmony). Part 5: Sublime (disharmony...
    or in another language: the really cool stuff). Is there a font/typeface that
    resides in this heavenly orb of the sublime?\r\n\r\nPut all 5 parts together,
    with a bit of salt, pepper, and discernment... out pops a (potentially) wise entity.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    in 1905, a fellow by the name of Max Weber published a paper on why Protestants
    generally made more money than Catholics. Part of his answer was that Catholics
    were stuck in the concept that they were simply craftspersons and artisans. Protestants
    generally saw beyond this, to see the big picture... the Protestants / Freethinkers
    were generally the ones to establish water and wind mills, and later manufacturing
    companies.\r\n\r\nBig picture. Small picture. Take your pick.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-02 17:19:55'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Is it quality if a salescritter or truck driver cannot appreciate it too?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2013-04-02 18:25:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed. For example most people don't think \"this is pink because the designer
    knows I've been conditioned to associate pink with femininity and he's using that
    to make me think this is feminine\", they just think \"this is feminine\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-02 19:49:12'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> How can the average salescritter or truck \r\n> driver tell the quality
    of a design?\r\n\r\nIn most cases they can't, but they can have a gut reaction
    and personal opinion. Just as I have gut reactions when looking at buildings even
    though I don't know much about architecture.\r\n\r\nDesigners often try to anticipate
    the reaction of average, non-designer folks to their designs, since that will
    be the eventual audience for most designed pieces. "
  created: '2013-04-02 19:51:12'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "There seems to be a running theme here: only type designers are intelligent,
    understand what quality is or is not, and everyone else is really really stupid,
    absolutely incapable of discernment of any type.\r\n\r\nThis might be the exact
    reason why many of you are absolutely delusional and unsuccessful in your \"profession\".
    \r\n\r\nIf you cannot respect others, why would expect them to respect you?\r\n\r\nI
    repeat again: quality is in the eye of the beholder. A \"thing\" possesses nothing
    and yet everything. Only sentient beings can discern what this nothingness and
    everythingness is and means.\r\n\r\nOh, woops, I am not a type designer... perhaps
    I am stupid ?\r\n\r\nYou are in my territory now, if you haven't guessed by now...
    can you tell whether or not my philosophical/sociological musings are of any \"quality\"
    ? If so, how can you tell? If not, how can you tell?"
  created: '2013-04-02 20:06:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nobody said -or even implied- anything of the sort.\r\n\r\nIt's simply that
    the more time you spend doing something the better you get at it, and in some
    cases you can cross over into making things that address the subconscious.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-02 20:17:04'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "I'm pretty sure folks like JamesM said exactly that. \"In most cases they
    can't\"... meaning most \"common\" folks cannot authentically discern quality
    from less or non-quality... common folks can only have \"gut reactions\" and \"personal
    opinions\"...\r\n\r\nThis is precisely where disrespect, arrogance, and superiority
    has its roots. It does not take a history professor to tell you where that way
    of thinking leads a society...\r\n\r\nMight be a good time to read Michel Foucault's
    What is Enlightenment... it begins by making a cool observation: back in Immanuel
    Kant's day, newspapers asked genuine questions of its readers, not simply asked
    their opinions. Readers were encouraged to actually ponder the question, then
    respond.\r\n\r\n99 percent of the \"responses\" in this thread and others are
    merely opinions of fairly uneducated and/or egoistic people. It would do them
    well to actually ponder the questions asked herein, and then go back and ask the
    initial question that sparked this thread: how should the city of Canberra inspire
    creativity from anyone so as to discover a new typeface for its identity?"
  created: '2013-04-02 20:59:48'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "Why is it important for people to get technically better?\r\n\r\nIsn't the
    more primal question: what is the purpose/utility/intention of communication,
    and from that, what are the various tools required to most effectively communicate
    (including fonts)?\r\n\r\nThis is a slightly weirder question than it first appears.
    Most humans have never been trained to communicate authentically. There is a Greek
    word Parrhesia which essentially means to speak everything. Most people, however,
    have been trained to speak not everything but a filtered version of their discerned
    knowledge; most people speak in an attempt to convince someone of something...
    rhetoric. Parrhesia, however, is not rhetorical... it is \"full\", organic, unvarnished,
    innocent of any other purpose but to communicate what is within a person's fullest
    state of being.\r\n\r\nIn short, most humans communicate dishonestly. Why, then,
    should a craftsperson spend the time and labor and love to design a font that
    is technically better for people that just communicate dishonestly?\r\n\r\nOr,
    to put another way... let us assume that the most \"technically effective\" font
    is one where the top 25% of the font visually transmits the pertinent information
    of the letter. Unfortunately, though, the most profound and most widely read book
    on planet Earth is set in some other typeface. The lack of a technically perfect
    font did not prevent the whole world to read this book. Perhaps, a less technically
    perfect font makes people work harder or slower in digesting the words of the
    book. What is the perfect reading speed of text? Can a font designer actually
    design a font that controls reading speed? That is a genuine question.\r\n\r\nBut,
    you should get the point I attempting to make about the priorities of type design.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    my wife pities you guys."
  created: '2013-04-02 22:18:14'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I'm pretty sure folks like JamesM said exactly that....\r\n> \"common\"
    folks cannot authentically discern quality\r\n\r\nCome on, Oobimichael, you're
    misquoting and mischaracterizing what people say.  I don't know why you're getting
    so worked up over this issue that you would resort to those tactics."
  created: '2013-04-02 22:29:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Michael, why are you getting increasingly vicious?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Why
    is it important for people to get technically better?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBecause
    efficiency can be a positive element in life.\r\n\r\nEverybody lies at least a
    little bit. But that doesn't justify deprecating quality.\r\n\r\nPerfection is
    a damaging illusion.\r\nBetterment is the best thing on the planet.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-02 22:31:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "An appreciation for learning how to do something well does not equate to
    indiscriminate low regard for people who don't do that thing.\r\n\r\nThe reason
    laymen can't discern why/how a font works well (because it is <em>not</em> a painting,
    but a tool) isn't that they're dumb, it's that they haven't spent the time on
    it. A highly intelligent person often gets a less intelligent person to do something
    simply because he hasn't spent the time getting good enough at that thing himself.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>back
    in Immanuel Kant's day, newspapers asked genuine questions of its readers</blockquote>\r\n\r\nExactly,
    <em>quality.</em> Not navel-gazing self-expression.\r\n\r\nSadly what people have
    come to realize however is that you get richer faster by deprecating quality.
    By getting people to believe they don't need to improve.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>how
    should the city of Canberra inspire creativity from anyone so as to discover a
    new typeface for its identity?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nGood question. But it does
    not replace another one: How should people get -technically- better at making
    fonts?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-02 22:33:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Michael, I think you are misreading the comments with which you are disagreeing
    (which doesn't excuse the insults you are flinging willy-nilly, but I'm just going
    to ignore those).  With regard to quality -- that which you hold to be in the
    eye of the beholder -- maybe it would help if you were to define what you mean?
    I hope it is plain from what I wrote that quality is something that I believe
    needs to be judged against criteria proper to the thing considered. There is,
    for example, no point in trying to judge the quality of a typeface against the
    criteria of quality in musical compositions or downhill skiing. So if you really
    want to insist that quality is in the eye of the beholder, then one needs to consider
    what sort of person that beholder is, and what he or she knows about the criteria
    of quality in a given thing. This is absolutely not to say that the person who
    isn't an expert in typography is stupid, an idiot when it comes to things typographic.
    There are often common or parallel criteria for quality that enables one to build
    up what I consider a general feel for a good thing even if one's particular knowledge
    of a given thing is limited. But it is a fool indeed who thinks that this general
    feel substitutes for or is equivalent to particular, expert knowledge. There are
    many things about which I can form an opinion of taste, or which I can admire
    in various ways, while at the same time acknowledging that I know very little
    about the criteria of quality by which a more knowledgeable person would judge
    them; hence, I don't rate my opinion above its limited range.
  created: '2013-04-02 23:08:43'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "> How can the average salescritter or truck\r\n> driver tell the quality
    of a design?\r\n\r\nIn most cases they can't, but they can have a gut reaction
    and personal opinion. \r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but exactly how should one interpret
    this? To my understanding, the writer is saying that a salesperson or truck driver
    is INCAPABLE of discerning quality in any kind of tangible sense. That gut reaction
    and personal opinion is all they are capable of achieving? What a sad condemnation
    of the human race that \"common\" folk cannot discern quality, or beauty, or sublimity,
    or anything other than their primal and primordial instincts...\r\n\r\nHrant...
    not vicious... just drilling down on how people in general (and people here on
    this forum) are guided more by their egos than their fuller imagination and potential.\r\n\r\nHere's
    the foundational point: no one on this forum can truly answer the question of
    what makes a quality typeface. As I alluded to in the previous post, quality might
    need to include the concept of reading speed. What is the most effective reading
    speed, and what font in the market today meets that requirement? \r\n\r\nConsequently,
    if the type designers (the so-called professionals) themselves cannot determine
    what is quality, then why in the hell is anyone saying that salespeople or truck
    drivers are not professionals and thus cannot really discern what quality is.
    NO ONE CAN AUTHENTICALLY AND CATEGORICALLY SAY WHAT QUALITY IS OR IS NOT. Until
    such time, quality is in the eye of the beholder.\r\n\r\nWho is capable of designing
    a new typeface for Canberra? Anyone (professional or otherwise)."
  created: '2013-04-02 23:09:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Type designers can disagree on certain aspects of quality, but we can -and
    generally do- agree that there is a scale, and is not just a matter of taste.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-02 23:36:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Michael, are you even talking with any of us? You seem to have settled on
    rhetorically answering your own questions and then criticising those answers,
    while ignoring or wilfully misrepresenting what other people are actually saying.
    I'm almost always ready to engage in dialogue, no matter how protracted or potentially
    fruitless. But you don't seem interested in dialogue, so I'm off.
  created: '2013-04-03 00:37:30'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>NO ONE CAN AUTHENTICALLY AND CATEGORICALLY SAY WHAT QUALITY IS
    OR IS NOT.</blockquote>\r\n\r\ni can.\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-04-03 01:03:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael, this is really not a matter of arrogance on the part of designers.
    I'll try to explain it. \r\n\r\nThe key point is that people are not necessarily
    reliable authorities on their own reactions. When people consciously reflect on
    their preferences and report their opinions, they can report an opinion that is
    actually in conflict with own their automatic or unconsciously produced reaction.
    Researchers in psychology have documented how people are not reliable authorities
    on their own actual reactions, and therefore regard introspective reports as something
    not to be taken at face value.  \r\n\r\nWhat an experienced designer in any field
    can do is to become conscious of what actually moves people, and what doesn't,
    and learn how to produce a desired effect. In particular, a very common misjudgment
    by the inexperienced is to only look at their immediate impression of one element,
    and neglect both the broader context of the design element, and how it is going
    to last over time. \r\n\r\nFor example, Mark Simonson has pointed out that amateurs
    tend to opt for highly \"flavored\" fonts like Comic Sans and Papyrus, even when
    they may prove inappropriate in context or cloying over time to the very people
    who are choosing them. \r\n\r\nAnd graphic designer Paula Sher has reported that
    her clients regularly have told to her to \"make it bigger\", when the result
    of doing that will make for a worse design. It is not that the design couldn't
    be improved, but that the amateur simply misunderstands what will actually help. "
  created: '2013-04-03 01:09:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And laymen generally consciously choose a font size that's too large to read
    comfortably for extended periods.\r\n\r\nThere is an essential difference between
    makers and users.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-03 01:36:35'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I'm sorry, but exactly how should one interpret this?...\r\n>  the writer
    is saying that a salesperson or truck driver is \r\n> INCAPABLE of discerning
    quality \r\n\r\nYou keep ignoring the next sentence in my post, which was \"Just
    as I have gut reactions when looking at buildings even though I don't know much
    about architecture.\" \r\n\r\nIn other words, all of us -- including me -- have
    many areas where we may have opinions but we don't have expertise. I don't know
    much about truck driving, and most truck drivers probably don't know much about
    graphic design. (Notice that I said \"most\", not \"all\".)\r\n\r\nThere are lots
    of areas where I'm not an expert, including farming, submarines, ancient history,
    gourmet food, flower arranging, truck driving, and a zillion other topics. That
    doesn't stop me from having opinions on these topics, but I don't pretend to be
    an expert in those areas."
  created: '2013-04-03 01:37:36'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">\u201CUntil such time, quality is in the eye of the beholder.\u201D\r\nThat
    demonstrates shallow comprehension of the nature of quality \u2013 quality, and
    its appreciation, needs to provoke beyond a look. It requires a standard (or several)
    for comparison to judge quality. That is not exclusive, anyone can make that judgement
    \u2013 but only if they have something to judge it against.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2013-04-03 08:24:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\u201CHere's the foundational point: no one on this forum can truly answer
    the question of what makes a quality typeface.\u201D\r\n\r\nI am only engaging
    with you because the answers might be interesting to others, not because I have
    any expectation that your bizarre beliefs based on zero evidence can be changed.\r\n\r\nExample:
    in the Crafting Type Portland workshop a few weeks ago, I specifically showed
    the students eight common issues of optical compensation that amateurs often miss
    when attempting their first type designs (it took 53 slides, mostly visuals).
    I can certainly say that doing such things right is one of the hallmarks of a
    decent quality typeface, and that a typeface that fails on any of the earlier
    points in particular is of poor quality.\r\n\r\nNote: these principles apply to
    Latin type design. Other writing systems often change one or more of these principles
    (although some are pretty much universal).\r\n\r\nThe short list of optical compensations
    I presented on:\r\n\r\n1) Curves need to overshoot flats\r\n\r\n2) Straights need
    a gradual transition to become curves\r\n\r\n3) Where rounds run into straights,
    some thinning or compensation is needed\r\n\r\n4) Horizontal strokes need to be
    thinner than vertical strokes to appear the same thickness\r\n\r\n5) Rounds need
    to be a little thicker than straights\r\n\r\n6) Traditional thick/thin patterns
    create expectations that affect perceptions, even of nominally monoline letterforms\r\n\r\n7)
    Caps are generally best made slightly heavier (e.g. 4\u201310%) than lowercase
    letters in the same typeface, but not lighter.\r\n\r\n8) Optical vertical midpoint
    of a letter is higher than the geometric midpoint (e.g. crossbar on an H, or thinnest
    point of a slightly flaring letter, by about 2\u20133%)\r\n\r\n9) Round shapes
    are seen as more round when they are very slightly super-elliptical\r\n\r\nYes,
    that's nine points. Somehow I managed to stick 8 and 9 together, which was an
    error in my slides.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-03 19:23:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>because the answers might be interesting to others</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat
    is the golden leap that many people fail to perform (because they're too focused
    on themselves). A communal discussion is like a font: it's not a bunch of glyphs,
    it's a whole.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>eight common issues of optical compensation</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNice.\r\n\r\nI
    would actually merge #4 and #9: A thing has to be wider to appear as wide as it
    is tall.\r\n\r\nAnd as you might guess, I would treat #6 differently. :-)  To
    me \"stroke\" contrast has value beyond tradition.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-03 19:37:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>I would actually merge #4 and #9</blockquote>\r\n \r\nI think
    you missed the \"super-\" in \"super-elliptical.\""
  created: '2013-04-03 20:19:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh wow. Probably because I actually never knew that (so I read what I expected
    instead) since I never [try to] make a perfect circle. Is that true? Maybe it's
    actually a \"must be slightly wider\" illusion?\r\n\r\nOtherwise there <em>is</em>
    something missing then - or at least #4 needs to be expanded to include shapes,
    not just \"strokes\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-03 20:41:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: That was a point-form version of a 20-minute talk, so go easy on the details....  :)
  created: '2013-04-04 06:06:04'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: Thomas, have you thought about putting together your own book on the subject?
    That is a kick starter campaign I would very happily get behind. Which in turn
    makes me realise that it could also be the ultimate piece of Typophile merchandise,
    an ebook version perhaps including links to key threads.
  created: '2013-04-04 07:05:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Karl, a list, with illustrations, which overlaps with Thomas''s can be found
    at http://briem.net/. Navigate to the type design design, then basics, then illusions. '
  created: '2013-04-04 13:56:36'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: Thanks, William but I meant something to cover the complete range of skills
    and knowledge that Thomas regularly shares on the site, along with those of many
    other contributors, yourself included. Typophile has long been an invaluable resource
    of information, frequently going into far greater detail than anything easily
    accessible in book form, and it would be amazing to see some of that collected
    in a single reference volume.
  created: '2013-04-04 14:01:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Ah, I see. I''m sure Thomas''s book would be valuable! '
  created: '2013-04-04 14:15:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I would not equate Thomas's outlook with Briem's - the former's is much more
    mature.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-04 16:53:26'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I wouldn\u2019t be so certain, myself!\r\n\r\nIn any case, I actually gave
    a great deal of thought to editing such a book a couple of years ago.\r\n\r\nThen
    my other plans and gigs went nuts, and I sidelined the idea for the time being.
    I need to finish my Kickstarter typeface, and not have any other major projects
    in the way (other than my day job). Then *maybe* I will get back to that. Or not."
  created: '2013-04-05 06:58:51'
date: '2013-03-23 11:33:28'
node_type: forum
title: Canberra Typeface Design Competition for $10,000 AUD

---
