---
author:
  name: Rosetta Type Foundry
  picture: 121917
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/huronia_slides-1_6678.png]\r\n\r\n<strong>Huronia
  \u2013 The one who tells stories</strong>\r\n\r\n[[http://www.rosettatype.com/Huronia|Huronia]],
  designed by Ross Mills, is a text face with flavour, suitable for recording oral
  literature and for extended reading in books and academic texts. We are sure it
  would shine in woodcrafting magazines too.\r\n \r\nBesides being a fully-equipped
  Latin font with expert features (small caps, various figure sets, superiors, fractions),
  Huronia takes up the challenge to support all native languages of Americas. Alongside
  Latin-based orthographies, it provides for the first time a level of typographic
  sophistication that gives Canadian syllabics equal footing with the Latin, with
  full attention paid to truly harmonising the bold and italic styles between scripts.
  It is of special linguistic significance in helping preserve the written languages
  of endangered native American cultures that are under-equipped in the digital age.\r\n
  \r\nCurrently, the Latin Pro and Inuktitut versions are available, and we will be
  releasing the polytonic Greek, extended Latin, Cherokee and more in due course.\r\n\r\nFor
  more information visit our site: http://www.rosettatype.com/Huronia\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/huronia_slides-3-kopia_5196.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/huronia_slides-5-kopia_4368.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/huronia_slides-6_6623.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/huronia_slides-8_3564.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/huronia_slides-9_4357.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: ferfolio_2
    picture: 126394
  body: "<strong>Woow</strong>\r\n\r\nAmazing work!!! Love the smcp. The native american
    symbols look awesome but I can judge their legibility because I'm not familiar
    with the language. Congratulations! :)\r\n\r\nPS: Any good link to investigate
    about native american languages and alphabets?"
  created: '2013-04-03 15:21:51'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: I've got the latin version, and will be adding the Inuktitut. Great stuff.
  created: '2013-04-03 16:21:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I see a publication date of March 2013. How does this differ from the Huronia
    I bought from Ross (through Tiro Typeworks) some time ago? (I have the \"pro\"
    version.)\r\n\r\n@Fernando -- here is a link with a larger specimen & a PDF showing
    language support. But I don't know if this is the same Huronia as posted here.
    ..\r\n\r\nhttp://tiro.com/huronia/\r\n\r\nEdit: The pdf can be a little hard to
    find, here's a direct link. Notice the character compliment differs for the \"standard\"
    & \"pro\" versions.\r\n\r\nhttp://tiro.com/huronia/Huronia_Beta_16_OL.pdf"
  created: '2013-04-04 03:20:14'
- author:
    name: Rosetta Type Foundry
    picture: 121917
  body: "I will point Ross here so he can clarify potential updates etc. We have a
    bit of a nomenclature mess with Huronia. His \u201CPro\u201D (or Professional)
    is different from our \u201CLatin Pro\u201D and will be probably renamed. The
    first (Ross\u2019 Pro) contains the full character set (incl. IPA, Greek, Can.
    syllabics, Cherokee, \u2026), while the second (Rosetta\u2019s Latin Pro) contains
    only Latin for European languages with all the typographic extras such as small
    caps, superiors, fractions etc.\r\n\r\nSo far we released only Latin and Inuktitut
    as these are available in all styles. We will release the rest as soon as the
    other styles (non-Regular) are finished.\r\n\r\nRoss improved or had things improved
    in the European Latin part (e.g. ogoneks), and we produced the fonts again while
    subsetting them per script/language-region. The date on our web refers to release
    with us (2013), the PDF specimen (on our web too) states 2010\u20132013 which
    should be correct.\r\n\r\nDavid B\u0159ezina"
  created: '2013-04-04 09:25:27'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: I too have the Tiro version.
  created: '2013-04-04 15:41:09'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Mr. B\u0159ezina:\r\n\r\nThanks very much for the explanation. It makes sense."
  created: '2013-04-04 17:35:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Interesting to see the in\uFB02uence of the broad-nibbed pen in the Inuktitut.\r\n\r\nI
    recall designing a wordmark for an exhibition of Inuit art in the early 1990s,
    and I thought it would be cool to harmonize Latin and Inuktitut by giving both
    a chirographic treatment (to match the organic quality of the exhibits). I forget
    the Latin face I was using, it wasn\u2019t extreme\u2014Palatino perhaps\u2014and
    no serifs on the Inuktitut). However, this idea was nixed by the client on the
    grounds that Inuktitut script was fundamentally geometric.\r\n(A topsy-turvy version
    of the argument that Greek is essentially chirographic.)\r\n\r\nProps to Ross
    for making it happen, and so nicely done. \r\nThis will open a lot of people\u2019s
    eyes."
  created: '2013-04-05 19:01:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don\u2019t think people will be responding to the fonts in an abstract,
    critical manner, but seeing them in the context of documents. And the designers
    of such documents will have an expanded palette to work with, enabling a more
    sophisticated kind of layout\u2014for instance contrasting this face with a bold
    sans face such as Ross Mills has already designed\u2014Pigiarniq. That capability
    raises the Inuktitut script to a par with Latin.\r\n\r\nAlso, by stylistically
    harmonizing with a sophisticated Latin book face, more respect from the mainstream
    in formal kinds of bilingual documents.\r\n\r\nThis is what I mean by eye opening\u2014enabling
    native users of aboriginal languages to have a broader typographic vision at their
    disposal, and presenting a richer impression of aboriginal culture to Southerners."
  created: '2013-04-05 21:32:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good points.\r\n\r\nI just worry that it will cause Inuktitut to get stuck
    where Latin has become stuck.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-06 02:57:30'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "Stuck? Latin is one of the least 'stuck' scripts I'm aware of. In any case,
    this verges on what in some circles might be called <em>white people problems</em>,
    or at best an academic discussion. In any case, if Inuktitut (syllabics) or Cree
    et al had 1/10,000th the variety available that Latin does, then I don't think
    there would be any complaints. As it stands, there is very little diversity, and
    the quality of typesetting and design has been very poor in general. Inuktitut
    does not have a huge number of users (both Latin-based and syllabic orthographies
    are used, so not all speakers use the latter), but has the benefit of being codified
    as the standard language of one Canadian territory, and fairly strong support
    in the communities who use it in Quebec. Cree has a comparatively large speaker
    base, but again many communities and areas opt to use a Latin orthography. There
    is little diversity in type for this and pretty much all other North American
    languages which don't use an orthography which happens to coincide with a European
    language.\r\n\r\nSo, the issue for me at least is not worrying about whether the
    writing system or stylistic variation is stuck, but rather that options are made
    available that allow for better quality publishing and design overall\u2014this
    in itself will help promulgate variation, be it more staid text faces or more
    exploratory display faces.  There is a contingent of mostly older individuals
    who do exhibit the attitude that Nick apparently encountered, in that their notion
    of what is acceptable harks back to the most prevalent publication of their youth,
    that being the bible, which was re-printed many times from the original 19th century
    version, and for many people for a long time was practically the only thing the
    saw in their own language. When new type was made, there was something of a lack
    of imagination, coupled with users' expectations that froze forms to more or less
    monolinear, plain forms (I don't think there have been too many fonts  where the
    forms were strictly geometric, but they may appear that way). Needless to say,
    most, if not all earlier digital fonts were not made by type designers, or anyone
    with more then a passing knowledge of type design, but rather were made by individuals
    whose motivation was more the necessity of simply having these languages show
    up on a computer screen.\r\n\r\n--\r\nA couple of notes to clarify releases:\r\nAny
    existing users with either the Standard or beta copies of the Tiro 'Pro' version
    will shortly receive updates from me that incorporate the changes made for this
    new release. Going forward, we will be making subset versions of the 'Pro' version
    along the lines of the Inuktitut-only font, so that users who only require support
    for a single language or small group of languages will have access to the font
    without being made to purchase the whole monster Pro version. Needless to say,
    there seem to be very few people who require the whole fonts, which support all
    languages of the Americas (along with most European languages, of course). We'll
    try and sort out nomenclature\u2014Rosetta has a larger user base and has established
    their own general guidelines and naming scheme. Tiro's 'Standard' edition is more
    like others 'Pro' versions, but in this case there are not many licensees of the
    Tiro version of Huronia, so I don't think there should be much confusion for the
    existing user base.\r\n\r\nThe subsetted fonts will be targeted to specific orthographies
    or groups of orthographies (eg. Salishian may be grouped into a single font) and
    will be made available at a reasonable cost, generally in the $10\u2013$15 range.
    I don't have an exact list of what these fonts will be in addition to Inuktitut,
    Cherokee and Cree, as its a bit of a complicated subject in some cases.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-08 23:30:37'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "So, Tiro will continue? For me, that's good news. I never know when a customer
    (I set type) will need a language supported, and often, neither do they, even
    with the manuscript in hand.\r\n\r\nHere's how it works after all the theorizing
    is done: An author \"does something.\" Maybe a hacked together characters (syntactically
    inaccurate), or a code (\\whatIwant), or something hand-drawn. The editor passes
    on the need, usually not expressed as a Unicode character. If I'm lucky, or the
    designer outright, I get a say in the typeface selection.\r\n\r\nBTW, first proof
    is usually due in three weeks. There are 20+ pieces of bad art to impove. There
    is the whole book to set, and probably several characters needed that were not
    mentioned, which we discover along the way.\r\n\r\nIf there is a font available
    like Huronia, I'll buy it. As I have..."
  created: '2013-04-09 02:49:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026for anybody who doesn't see anything wrong with chirography in
    type\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nDoes anybody else share your philosophy on this matter?\r\nI
    partly do, with regards to Greek, but only to the extent of disagreeing with those
    who say that Greek script typefaces MUST be chirographically informed.\r\n\r\nIMO
    there\u2019s plenty of room for chiro and non-chiro typefaces in all scripts.\r\nUltimately,
    natives (of all countries and cultures, including the developed world) should
    tell their own stories in their own voices, with their own local, indigenously
    designed fonts. But in the meantime, way to go Ross Mills."
  created: '2013-04-09 18:37:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think many people do <em>partly</em> share my philosophy (as you do). Anyway
    I'm not looking for converts, just awareness of the -what I consider to be severe-
    limitations of chirography, especially for text type. I would like to see Inuktitut
    free of its dominance, instead of being gifted a gilded cage.\r\n\r\nMore native
    participation is critical, but you can't leave it entirely to the natives. For
    one thing, as John Hudson once astutely pointed out to me, ironically most cultural
    damage in type design is done by natives! But most of all, few cultures sufficiently
    foster the critically important technical aspects of type design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-09 19:45:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peoples are different. And there's no separating sociopolitical reality from
    good typographic decisions. Armenians are white, but we expect/need different
    things from our alphabet compared to Canadians for example. This sort of thing
    is hard to explain to people in power; you have to be threatened to feel it -
    you have to have kids who need convincing that learning their alphabet/language
    is important. There's nothing \"academic\" about that. What's academic is reveling
    in formalism for its own sake.\r\n\r\nYou can't equate the Latin type scene with
    that of Inuktitut. The former is a 40-something guy still living with his parents
    (mommy calligraphy and daddy lettering). He goes on a non-committal date about
    once a year* and remains quite happy with his lot. The latter is about 10. Don't
    choose his spouse just yet.\r\n\r\n* There is an average of about one culturally
    progressive Latin type design per year. Considering the volume of Latin type design,
    all I can say is: whoop-de-doo.\r\n\r\nSo to me Latin is indeed stuck, and I wouldn't
    want to see Inuktitut stuck next to it. Are there writing systems that are more
    stuck than Latin? When you factor in age, not that many. Maybe Chinese, with its
    chirographic ball & chain. Arabic seems pretty stuck, but does enjoy a good deal
    of experimentation, largely out of frustration (which explains the generally poor
    results). Armenian is less stuck than Latin, because a greater proportion of Armenian
    fonts made today are culturally progressive. Take Arek for example (also at Rosetta).*
    Am I in love with it? No way - that Italic isn't my cup of tea at all. But it's
    part of us becoming less stuck. I believe in that enough to have a caused a rift
    between myself and a very prestigious Armenian type designer when I fought hard
    in support of Arek winning the Grand Prize at the Granshan 2010 competition. It
    would be nice to see a Native American fight for his script's future, not just
    its present.\r\n\r\n* http://armenotype.com/2010/10/interview-khajag-apelian/\r\n\r\nI'm
    not the only one who believes that Latin type is playing it too safe these days,
    generally content to ramp up the OpenType \"arms race\" rather than risk contemplating
    its cultural future. But for a threatened minority, the future is all we have.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>this
    in itself will help promulgate variation</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThis is what I'm
    not sure about. Just like how many Cherokee think that any font that tries to
    improve on the archetype isn't really Cherokee, that it risks cultural dilution.
    This is because the original Cherokee design was such a powerful singularity -
    like a glass of dirty water in the desert. Luckily I think Huronia is far better
    than a glass of dirty water. But there remains the tinge of worry that people
    will follow the singularity that it is too blindly, making it harder to move beyond
    the chirographic illusion, notably when it wasn't even there before.\r\n\r\nNow,
    for anybody who doesn't see anything wrong with chirography in type, there's nothing
    to worry about - it's great to watch the little native dude drinking at the party.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nRelated:
    http://typophile.com/node/14818\r\nFor one thing, the cultural magnanimity of
    Rimmer's Latin is inspiring.\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/rimmer/canadian-syllabics/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-09 19:48:46'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>But most of all, few cultures sufficiently foster the critically
    important technical aspects of type design.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's certainly
    true. Look at how many fonts print so poorly, or display on the screen so poorly
    -- those being the <strong>only</strong> \"critically important\" aspects of type
    design. Or maybe it's not true. Is this paucity of function the culture's fault,
    or the type designers? Or the culture's fault for spawning so many useless designers?
    \r\n\r\nMakes my head hurt. Maybe Typophile should just give Hrant his own forum."
  created: '2013-04-09 21:29:50'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "Hrant, I think you're chasing your own tail, but that's not a judgement\u2014I've
    seen others perfectly entertained doing this. I'm not in general disagreement
    with your sentiment, but I think the nature of your discussion is in conflict
    with what the priorities ought to be in the present and immediate future. \r\n\r\nYes,
    it would be <em>nice</em> for a script's future to be fought for. However, the
    only thing that is going to enable that is the future of the language, so what
    would really be nice is a concerted fight for that language\u2014and as far as
    it relates to a writing system this implies publishing. If anyone wishes to support
    the continued existence of the America's (or anywhere else for that matter) truly
    threatened, endangered languages, then first you should look to creating\u2014or
    assisting to create\u2014written material for those languages*. Otherwise, both
    the language and the novel writing system becomes nothing more then a anthropological
    curiosity. Then it truly is academic.\r\n\r\nIn any case, this is a release thread.
    If more discussion on such subjects is wanted, perhaps a different thread should
    be used.\r\n\r\n*Of course, oral literatures are the foundation of American languages,
    and play an important part of continuing use, but we're talking about scripts
    and fonts, so are principally concerned with the transcription process and presentation
    of language. And, although literature of any sort is all well and good, the future
    of some languages may now be rooted in current modes of communication: kids texting
    in their grandparent's language.\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-09 21:55:49'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "Charles,\r\n\r\nCertainly, Tiro will continue. We are principally a custom
    outfit, and prefer to maintain the focus on that, so sharing or relinquishing
    the retail end of things to Rosetta only makes sense."
  created: '2013-04-09 22:01:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "{Please see my third post of April 9, 2013.}\r\n\r\nAlthough I wouldn't call
    Inuktitut fundamentally geometric (at least not more than Latin could be) and
    Huronia does look enviably polished and tasteful, I also have to think that avoiding
    chirography can help scripts free of a chirographic background (of which sadly
    there are very few) leapfrog Latin into more promising territory; by the same
    token there is something vaguely backwards (so to me not \"eye-opening\") about
    making a chirographic Inuktitut font.\r\n\r\nAn Inuktitut extension to Fenland
    would be awesome.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-09 22:33:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ross*, I've actually been feeling guilty about having this discussion here
    since the beginning - but I worried that moving it would dilute it. However by
    making an explicit suggestion you've mercifully sealed its fate...\r\n\r\n* Or
    should I be calling you William? After all these years I'm still not sure - sorry!\r\n\r\n<strong>So
    anybody interested in the discussion about the evolution of minority scripts should
    ideally pick things up here:\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/102155\">http://typophile.com/node/102155</strong></a>\r\nAnd
    I'm sorry for not making the move sooner.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-09 22:33:24'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "<cite>* Or should I be calling you William?</cite>\r\n\r\nOh, hell no, my
    conquering days are over."
  created: '2013-04-09 22:49:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, it's one thing to have a conceptual critical framework, but its another
    to be so focused on it that one becomes blind to what is in front of you. Huronia
    is <em>not</em> a chirographic type design. It's stroke modulation patterns are
    sculptural rather than based on writing tools, and owe more to Dwiggin's approach
    than to anything Noordzijan. Go look at the illustrations again and examine closely
    the weight distributions and the transitions. It's one of the things that makes
    Ross a more interesting type designer than I am.\r\n\r\nThe 'influence of the
    broad nib', as Nick characterises it, is limited to the fact that some strokes
    are thin and others thicker, which is reasonably novel in the context of Inuktitut,
    but several steps removed from the pen."
  created: '2013-04-10 02:31:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Oh, and doesn't that first illustration make you want to get in a canoe?
  created: '2013-04-10 02:32:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, would you like to copy/move your post to the other thread, or would
    you mind if I do?\r\n\r\nCanoe? Indeed it does - as long as I have my turtleneck.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-10 02:39:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I put my comment here because it relates directly to Huronia, not to the more
    general question of typeface design for minority languages or scripts. I may have
    something to contribute to the other thread, but I'm enjoying watching Ross hold
    forth, so maybe I'll shut up for once.
  created: '2013-04-10 04:35:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Right John, the first thing that came into my mind at a cursory glance was
    the organic, non-geometric quality of the face, which I carelessly attributed
    to the pen. Despite being sculptural it's very gestural, perhaps more like brushwork.
  created: '2013-04-10 05:44:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The chirographic nature of the Inuktitut italic did surprise me at first.
    But I presume that the Inuit do use their script for writing, and the italic script
    looked more like writing with a ball-point pen, as might happen in real life,
    than something that was dragged through hundreds of years of humanist scribal
    tradition in an attempt to obtain compatibility.\r\n\r\nInstead, the criticism
    I would direct at this font is that it costs money.\r\n\r\nIn general, there's
    nothing wrong with the people who put forth the effort to design quality typefaces
    to earn a living from doing so. And, if the goal of this typeface is to enable
    government departments and major publishers and advertisers who wish to communicate
    with the people of Canada's First Nations in style, then there's nothing inconsistent
    with <em>that</em> goal and a price tag.\r\n\r\nHowever, it would be inconsistent
    if there were pretensions (there may not be; I may be getting that idea from the
    topic of the thread that led me to this one) of the typeface being in some way
    an attempt to contribute to the continued survival of indigenous languages. The
    speakers of which also tend to be impecunious, leaving them little in the way
    of resources for luxuries - except for a minimum of immediately gratifying ones
    to help them maintain their sanity in a grim situation of life - which is, of
    course, why their languages are in such great danger.\r\n\r\nBut then, although
    it's better than nothing, how \"alive\" is a language that is only learned as
    a second language out of a sense of cultural obligation?"
  created: '2013-04-11 22:20:16'
- author:
    name: Ross Mills
  body: "I don't see any inconsistency or pretense in this case. I suspect most use
    will be related to some project or another (publishing print material), and offering
    a font at a reduced rate would be no different then the printer offering their
    services at a reduced rate if they felt the project warranted it. In either case,
    the fact that a product costs money (not much, I might add) does not mean its
    not still contributing. \r\n\r\nIt would be a slippery slope if we tried to universally
    associate product value to every market or economic segment, but even so, the
    price is in line with the difference in median income from aboriginal Canadians
    and non-aboriginal. This is why the fonts are $10\u2013$15 instead of something
    like $20\u2013$25. Those with little or no money should not be purchasing fonts,
    and when push comes to shove, I'm sure I'll still be giving away free licenses.
    It is not the poorest in any such community that is responsible for paying for
    the production of printed material, so I'm a bit confused by this assertion. In
    my experience, users are quite happy to pay a reasonable fee to get a quality
    font that properly supports their language, where other free fonts fall short.
    In most cases, those free fonts are still out there for those that need them.\r\n\r\nAs
    far as Inuktitut is concerned, we already provide other fonts that are free to
    end users. I have actually attempted to have a development and release model that
    would allow for the font development to be funded and have free versions available
    by having government or other other organizations purchase a distribution license,
    which would subsidize the free version. Thus far, no one has taken me up on this
    for Huronia, and so we are left with a nominal license fee in place, which incidentally
    I can assure you is not going to net any profit in the scheme of things."
  created: '2013-04-12 03:57:57'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">It is not the poorest in any such community that is responsible for paying
    for the production of printed material...\r\n\r\nAbsolutely. From a slightly different
    perspective, my experiences with designing Burmese have led to enquiries from
    people in education, lexicography and publishing, who need and license fonts professionally.
    Those industries definitely propel cultural development."
  created: '2013-04-13 14:14:21'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>Instead, the criticism I would direct at this font is that it
    costs money.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHmm. So, does that mean you're going to contribute
    to the common good by working over one of the free (I'd hope open source) fonts?
    Good for you. "
  created: '2013-04-13 22:32:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Those industries definitely propel cultural development.</em>\r\n\r\nOf
    course they do, and the number of script communities that languish for years with
    one or two -- sometimes not very good -- free fonts illustrate what can happen
    when there is no financial incentive to develop new styles and more sophisticated
    typographic support."
  created: '2013-04-17 19:25:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.rosettatype.com/index.php?action=portal/viewContent&cntId_content=3021\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-12 01:03:36'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "As a Canadian designer/typographer I deeply appreciate this typeface. It
    represents a great opportunity to make better work that respectfully embraces
    cultures and nations within this country.\r\n\r\nSo: Thank you Ross Mills, Tiro
    Typeworks, and Rosetta Type Foundry.\r\n\r\nI can't wait to see a book on Cape
    Dorset printmaking using Huronia Latin and Inuktitut side-by-side!"
  created: '2013-06-13 20:09:16'
date: '2013-04-03 10:55:48'
title: Huronia

---
