---
author:
  name: blackhearse
body: "Hello. I am a publisher who will be re-publishing some old & out of print books.
  And I'm setting them in the original faces that were used. I am running into the
  problem, though, of not getting all the ligatures (or  old style figures) I need
  in the font sets available. What do I do?\r\n\r\nShould I contact these big name
  vendors and ask if they can design the missing ones I need?\r\nOr should I hire
  a freelancer (work for hire) for this kind of stuff?\r\n\r\nIf the latter, what
  kinds of questions should I ask in order to know that I'll get someone who can do
  the job right?\r\n\r\nAny input appreciated.\r\n\r\nCarl\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "What your options are depends in part on what fonts you are talking about.
    Fonts are software now, and as software, can be copy protected with a copyright.
    But in the U.S., that is only for the *software,* not the design. So, a \"supplemental\"
    font could always be made, with the attendant problems in setting the text.\r\n\r\nFonts
    are also *licensed*, not *sold*. What your options are with regard to modifying
    them (as opposed to using a supplemental font) depends on the details of those
    licenses. Worse, it is entirely possible for the same typeface to have two different
    licenses -- e.g,. Monotype Bembo bought long ago with an Adobe license allows
    you to modify it, Monotype Bembo bought today from Monotype forbids it.\r\n\r\nEasiest
    would be if you told us what the typefaces are. Or maybe easiest would be to have
    the books set in hot metal, like the originals. You could do that and still print
    offset, if that's a goal. If they are short enough, might even be cheaper...\r\n\r\nBack
    to you, what are the typefaces?"
  created: '2013-04-07 14:16:13'
- author:
    name: blackhearse
  body: "Thanks for the reply.\r\nAt the moment I'm working with Monotype Old Style.
    But I know I'm going to run into this problem again with other faces because I
    have another couple dozen books that I want to do in the future.\r\n\r\nI am in
    the U.S. and think the \"supplemental\" route you mentioned would be best. I'm
    a small one-man show at the moment & the hot metal idea seems pretty daunting...though
    offset is my goal.\r\n\r\nThe characters I need were apparently included in the
    sets at one time, but are no longer. Would I be modifying the set by creating
    new ligatures or would they be considered entirely new creations? Don't know if
    that matters if I go the \"supplemental\" route."
  created: '2013-04-08 07:19:12'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "The information I gave you was how to legally add characters so that you
    could, in the end, have a printed book. So, you make, or have made, a font family
    called, say, BHMOS. Members of the family are roman, italic, and a bold if you
    need it.\r\n\r\nGlyphs in the font (because of cost) are the double f ligatures
    and the old style numbers only. \r\n\r\nUsing it will be a pain. You can probably
    get automatic substitution in a layout program like InDesign (grep search), but
    any kerning will have to be done by hand -- automatic kerning is always between
    glyphs within a single font. Actually, someone could probably write a script to
    handle much of the needed kerning.\r\n\r\nBy the way, this font was offered through
    Adobe at one time. Anyone who purchased it before 2011 can just go into the font
    itself, and modify it at will. That would make things far easier. Not sure about
    what would happen in a license transfer -- that is, you purchase the license from
    someone who bought it through Adobe before that date...\r\n\r\nsee\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/type/browser/legal/additional_licenses.html\r\n\r\nThat's
    the legal, technical ways around your issue.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nI just went and
    looked at Monotype Old Style\r\n\r\nhttps://www.google.com/search?q=monotype+old+style+fonts&hl=en&source=lnms&tbm=isch&sa=X&ei=IqRiUZrIK-m40QGJ-YH4CA&ved=0CAcQ_AUoAQ&biw=773&bih=509\r\n\r\nWhatever
    you think about the typeface design, whoever drew it up has no idea about printing.
    It might work as a metal font, printed letterpress. It will look terrible printed
    offset under any conditions, but esp, under the current manufacturing technique
    where the printing plate is made directly from the computer file.\r\n\r\nIt's
    hard to match printing where the type was set using metal, whether eventually
    printed letterpress, or where repro was pulled, negatives made & stripped up,
    and a plate burned. \r\n\r\nI know, because I've done this many times. I've set
    patch corrections for books where the old pages (tearsheets) were shot for offset
    printing, and we had to paste up new copy on them. Worst (technically) I ever
    did was for some books written by Netanyahu's papa (Benzion) -- a distinguised
    scholar with significant publications at American University Presses. \r\n\r\nBefore
    PostScrpt, it wasn't really worth the effort. You couldn't do much, and it showed,
    badly. When PostScript came along, we always went into the fonts and add the weight
    (non-proportionally) that you get with pressing a piece of metal into a piece
    of paper.  To give you an idea, the weight gain needed is about half the distance
    between a \"regular\" and \"medium\" font. \r\n\r\nSo  much for <cite>bona fides</cite>
    and \"been there, done that, charter member.\"\r\n\r\nWhoever made the \"Monotype
    Old Style\" fonts forgot about printing, or probably never knew anything about
    it. Some copy artist sitting at a drawing table who had no idea about what happens
    as ink is put on paper, or for that matter, pixels on a screen -- though how type
    is displayed on a monitor is a moving target these days.\r\n\r\nUnless for a technical
    reason -- like matching repro from an already printed book -- you should toss
    out Monotype Old Style\" and start over. If you have to have a Caslon (which MOS
    \ isn't, by the way, in spite of the blurb) look at Williams Caslon. \r\n\r\nhttps://www.google.com/search?q=Williams+caslon&hl=en&client=firefox-a&hs=8nB&rls=org.mozilla:en-US:official&channel=fflb&tbm=isch&tbo=u&source=univ&sa=X&ei=8atiUZ74C-LB0AHErIC4Bg&ved=0CDcQsAQ&biw=773&bih=509\r\n\r\nThe
    same with other revivals. Look at something set using them, and <strong>printed
    currently</strong>,using the process you will use -- offset, on-demand xerography,
    whatever. "
  created: '2013-04-08 13:09:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What Charles said (mostly :-). Especially concerning the fact that matching
    the look of an old book involves far more than simply choosing a font...\r\n\r\nBTW
    if you want to extend a font for which you can't get/afford permission, you still
    can't copy the outlines from the original (to make an \"add-on\" font). There
    is a bit of good news though: many of those old fonts have more permissive incarnations
    that might be close enough to the \"official\" version; if you can use one of
    those instead you can save yourself a lot of money and headaches.\r\n\r\nAs for
    somebody to \"do the job right\", you can certainly learn to do it yourself, but
    expect to spend a lot of time (not least in terms of troubleshooting). If you
    can come up with a budget there are many \"third parties\" on Typophile (such
    as Charles, and yours truly*) who can do this sort of thing for you. I myself
    have done a handful of such commissions, for example on Adobe Garamond Premier
    and Goudy's Deepdene.\r\n\r\n* hpapazian at gmail dot com\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Not
    sure about what would happen in a license transfer</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's
    not looking good lately:\r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/news/technology-22000668\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-08 18:07:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Putting stuff in the background is often smart, but auto-tracing rarely is;
    better to trace manually over a background.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-09 02:18:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Charles, that particular method, which still relies on the outlines during
    the auto-trace, I would not want to absolutely bet on it passing a legal challenge
    in the USA.\r\n\r\nI wouldn't be surprised if it DID pass such a challenge, either.
    But I don't regard that as well understood a situation as if one used the outlines
    to generate a bitmap, and then did a new manual or auto-trace based on the bitmap.
    I think it is widely accepted in the industry (whether true or not) that this
    would almost certainly pass legal muster as far as US copyright goes.\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-09 07:09:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> The shape, including the details, can't be copy protected.\r\n\r\nCopy
    protected? Do you mean protected by copyright?\r\n\r\nIf so, that is only true
    as far as the word \"copyright\" is involved, and you are talking about the USA.
    But the USA also has design patents, which *do* protect the shape, including the
    details.\r\n\r\n(That being said, design patent has a much shorter duration than
    copyright, and few foundries have found the cost/benefit attractive. Note that
    using design patent for typefaces is hardly novel: the very first US design patent
    was for a typeface, issued in 1842 to George Bruce.)\r\n\r\nJust last week I was
    asked by a developer about the possibility of me creating a look-alike of my typeface
    Hypatia Sans. I had to point out that it is covered by an Adobe-owned design patent,
    so even if I wanted to, I could not legally do so.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2013-04-09 16:38:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But of course \"look-alike\" can be debated. There's a difference between
    plagiarism (which harms cultural progress) and inspiration (which promotes it)
    - even if the difference could never be set in stone.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-09 16:38:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "On the piracy front - related:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/95431\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the
    best solution is to just pick another font.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nUnless he really
    does have/want to match the original as closely as possible.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Using
    a typeface well is at least as important as selecting it</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut
    the latter still counts.\r\n\r\nI'm all for taking the time to really understand
    something (I've never sold a car - I've always run them to the ground or totaled
    them) but that's a matter of education - it's not rational to bemoan the typeface
    richness we now enjoy.\r\n\r\nAlso, I would not equate letterform variations with
    lettering. It's still a font. Most people do only use the new technology decoratively,
    but there remain worlds of functionality and <em>subtle</em> expression to explore.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-09 16:39:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There is a simple solution: Old Style 7, which has OSF and Small caps.\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/old-style-7/\r\n\r\nAs
    for the other typefaces, I\u2019m pretty sure that you will be able to \uFB01nd
    digital versions, equivalents, or near equivalents.*\r\n\r\nHowever, you will
    not be able to facsimilize the original documents easily (if they were set by
    pre-digital technology), even with ostensibly the same typefaces, because the
    \u201CH&Js\u201D\u2014justi\uFB01cation method\u2014was quite different then and
    impossible to replicate automatically now, so lines will break in different places,
    requiring laborious \uFB01nessing.\r\n\r\nThat is, if facsimiles are your goal.\r\n\r\nAn
    interesting topic, authenticity.\r\n\r\n*A major reseller, such as FontShop or
    MyFonts, will be able to help you track down (close) matches, if you contact them
    directly rather than just wading through their catalog with keyword searches."
  created: '2013-04-09 18:02:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>how do you get a design patent for anything based, say, on Janson?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    same way Adobe did in fact do it for a Garamond?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>it doesn't
    take an \"exact match\" when your goal is simply to set good type.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut
    it's never just \"good\" - it's always \"good enough\", which spans a universe
    of quality depending on the people involved.\r\n\r\nOtl Aicher died when a car
    hit his lawnmower because suffering a curved texture at one end of his field was
    not \"good enough\"...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-09 20:15:07'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: '. '
  created: '2013-04-10 02:03:38'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: .
  created: '2013-04-10 02:04:16'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Too much hhp.
  created: '2013-04-10 02:04:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Charles, how is it reasonable or productive to throw a vandalistic tantrum
    when somebody respectfully disagrees with you? Is Typophile supposed to be a collection
    of monolithic personal statements?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-10 02:38:28'
- author:
    name: blackhearse
  body: "Sorry for jumping back in late. I work crazy hours and it took me a while
    do digest all this. The input so far has helped immensely.\r\n\r\nCharles, thanks
    for pointing out the legal/tech issues & letting me know about the Adobe route.
    I never would have known or thought about the latter.  I'm definitely not adverse
    to manually kerning if necessary. But your point about this face not printing
    well w/ offset is one I hadn't fully considered. I have seen those kinds of differences
    before in printed pieces but thought it was probably my imagination. Unfortunately,
    I do need to use MOS since it was used in the original. And, yes, I'll be using
    CTP imaging.\r\n\r\nCan you expand a little on what \"patch corrections\" are?\r\nI
    am reproducing the entire layout & design of the books as well...not just using
    the same type. They're not \"facsimiles,\" though, because I have used modern
    justification methods. Can anyone recommend someone who can add the necessary
    weight to my fonts? I've worked w/ Indesign for about 6 years, but that's way
    beyond my skill set. Also, how can I learn to tell which revived fonts are weighted
    properly and will print well using today's technology? Does one always have to
    compare old and new samples printed with the same method?\r\n\r\nhrant, thanks
    for your helpful info. I certainly don't have the time to learn something like
    this myself & just may take you up on your offer. I've got a lot of projects in
    various stages at the moment, though.\r\n\r\nAlso I think I checked out Old Style
    7 a while ago & it wasn't an exact match. I'll take another look, though. \r\n\r\nDoes
    anyone know if either Ronaldson or Baskerville MT are weighted properly? I'm using
    those in two other books as well."
  created: '2013-04-10 15:14:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "From what I gather Charles has a lot of experience tweaking weights. If you
    can't get him to do it feel free to email me: hpapazian at gmail dot com\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-10 17:13:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Since I don't know what you imagine to be a \"flight of fancy\" (for example,
    Adobe <em>did</em> get a design patent on a Garamond, so they could get it for
    a Janson) as a precaution I have saved your post. Don't equate occasional disagreement
    with a level of disrespect that warrants holding hostages. If you want to help
    somebody at least as much as seeing Typophile as a soapbox or a venting mechanism,
    you will not stoop to deleting the help you provide.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Reweighting
    a traditional metal font into a digital version requires looking at printed versions
    of each, then making the adjustments.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nA very good, and entirely
    obvious, observation. Many type designers have loudly deplored the overly-light
    revivals (which tellingly however came out fine on the laser printers back then)
    for at least 30 years.\r\n\r\nThe question is, what's the best way to make a font
    thicker?* If you're not allowed to modify it, you can stroke it; a bit brutish,
    but better than nothing. If you <em>are</em> allowed to modify it, and you can
    afford the time/money, you use a font editor; otherwise you still go caveman and
    stroke it. If you can <em>really</em> afford the time/money you do the font editor
    work manually; otherwise you can go auto - but be warned: in FontLab the auto-bold
    is pretty bad** (although it seems they actually fixed that recently, inheriting
    Fontographer's quite decent algorithm).\r\n\r\n* Oh, and <em>lightening</em> is
    an entirely different animal..\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/99141\r\n\r\n** http://www.typophile.com/node/81774\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-10 21:30:51'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Mr. Fox News of Typophile has spoken.
  created: '2013-04-11 12:33:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Even with the unwarranted personal attacks I don't feel comfortable simply
    re-posting what Charles wrote in public, but since it was a useful contribution
    to the Typophile community if anybody would like a copy feel free to email me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-11 17:03:39'
- author:
    name: blackhearse
  body: "Thanks again for the info. and advice. This is a really good forum. The scan
    charles  posted showed up great & illustrated  important differences quite well.\r\n\r\nhrant,
    thanks again for the offer. As I'm not yet a very learned typophile, and wouldn't
    trust my judgment with regard to weights, I will certainly get in touch as soon
    as I finish a couple short projects I'm working on.\r\nYour take on just adding
    stroke is an interesting solution. I agree, a bit brutish, but better than nothing
    I suppose if done in moderation...\r\n\r\nCarl "
  created: '2013-04-12 13:34:11'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Carl,\r\n\r\nInDesign will allow a stroke of less than .25 points. I tried
    an 0.02 stroke on a letter to do just what was suggested to you. Problem is, most/all
    preflight programs will report that thin stroke as an error -- it's no different
    to the preflight program than a rule, after all, and an 0.02 point rule would
    be a mistake. (BTW, you don't ever want to use less than a .33 point rule, when
    printing offset.) \r\n\r\nSo you use that thin stroke & send your files to the
    printer, and they send you back a reported error ... meaning you might lose schedule,
    and in either case, have to make a decision based on an unknown result. For us,
    I took that stroke out as soon as our preflight program reported it as a problem.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    no telling what a particular RIP is programmed to do when it encounters such fine
    strokes.\r\n\r\n Too many type designers seem to feel they're the final arbitrators,
    but we've been using type since, what., the 1450s? And OpenType has been used
    for what, 10 years? The Standard first established in 1996, I believe. You still
    need, in addition to authors, all of the following: editors, interior designers,
    cover designers, typesetters, and printers. Oddly enough, with what's available
    today, the smallest need is for type designers. Especially those who know little
    about using type. Be a touch careful abut what the problems will be when asking
    for advice.\r\n\r\nIn your original post, you asked \r\n\r\n<blockquote>If the
    latter [hire a freelancer], what kinds of questions should I ask in order to know
    that I'll get someone who can do the job right?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat matters
    is what a final product looks like. Ask to see results. If for the web, a PDF
    ebook, I suppose. If traditional print, books printed with the same system you
    will use -- on-demand, or offset, or whatever.\r\n\r\nMy own opinion, stated earlier,
    is you can capture most of the feel of an old book, but it is both hard and expensive
    to even try to replicate it, and in the end, you may well feel disappointed. \r\n\r\nOne
    way is to have it set metal, pull repro, lay that out, then find a printer with
    a camera room that can still make negatives & strip up flats to burn a plate.
    Or, I suppose, find someone who can do a good job scanning in the layed-out repro.
    Or print letterpress from the metal, but you've got a 5,000-7000 impression limit
    with that metal type.\r\n\r\nOption 2 is to use computer fonts -- PostScript or
    OpenType, brought up to 2013 standards, which will print as you want.\r\n\r\nOne
    way to do this is to learn to do the work yourself. Since, as you say, there will
    be multiple projects & typefaces, that has a certain appeal, though it will not
    be fast. The other way is to pay people. It might be cheaper to jut use metal
    type, as above. Cost it out.\r\n\r\nOption 3 is to select one of the current,
    completed OT fonts that will give you results you can live with, both in terms
    of type design and the printed product. Since you're re-publishing, these will
    perforce be revivals of older fonts, and there are A LOT of bad revivals out there.
    Best chance is to stay with broad categories -- a Venetian, a Scotch, etc. \r\n\r\nBe
    sure to see books printed with those fonts, and don't accept xerography as an
    example if you're going to print offset.\r\n\r\nBTW, how about just using the
    old books as camera copy? Been done many times before..."
  created: '2013-04-12 22:02:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Too many type designers seem to feel they're the final arbitrators</blockquote>\r\n\r\nA
    small number do. A slightly bigger number act like they do. Most realize -and
    many even freely admit- that a tiny stroke is harmless, especially when you factor
    in non-ideal output. On the other hand, a not-so-tiny 2o-unit (0.2 points at 10
    point in an Em of 1000) blob all around a letterform can very much give it a different
    (read: slovenly) character when printed in high quality. Feel free to do that
    sort of thing to something by Goudy for example, but not to something by Unger
    for example.\r\n\r\nAnd of course no amount of stroking is going to make a ligature
    pop out (tempting to make a sexual analogy here :-). So I'm sorry to report that
    sometimes you still need a stinky, weasely type designer...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-12 22:39:33'
date: '2013-04-07 01:44:09'
node_type: forum
title: How to get missing ligatures

---
