---
author:
  name: AnaBanana
  picture: 126116
body: "What do you do when you are designing a logo with just typographic elements,
  so no illustrations are involved. How do you sell this to your client, because I
  think they would think \u201Cso you threw 2 fonts together and I\u2019m paying a
  lot of money for that?\u201D\r\nThank you !"
comments:
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: Well, it could use modified fonts or custom lettering. And it probably should.
  created: '2013-04-10 14:11:08'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Well, did you just throw two fonts together?
  created: '2013-04-10 14:30:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You can tell them that you don't get paid for mouse clicks and keystrokes,
    but what's in your head.\r\n\r\nBTW big stinky studios have charged hundreds of
    thousands of dollars a pop making logos out of two Helvetica letters...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-10 14:44:40'
- author:
    name: AnaBanana
    picture: 126116
  body: "Well I did a lot of reasearch to get the look I wanted, and it's just strong
    with 2 great fonts together ... So yeah I threw them together, but it took me
    a while. \r\nMight be me who is slow, but I checked out \"lavin\", \"celine\",
    \"balenciaga\" and their logo's are all just type... and that's what my client
    wants: \"simple but sophisticated\". \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-10 14:54:59'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I would tell them about the research and why you think this is the best solution.
    Designers are not only paid to design, but also to figure out what to design and
    why.
  created: '2013-04-10 15:22:42'
- author:
    name: AnaBanana
    picture: 126116
  body: 'Thanks for the feedback '
  created: '2013-04-10 15:43:31'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "You need to sell it to them the same way you would with any logo \u2014 by
    doing a nice presentation in which you explain the thought process behind the
    logo, why it communicates the ideas that their logo needs to communicate, and
    how it differentiates them from their competition. \r\n\r\nAlso it might be helpful
    to show them mockups of how the logo could be used on their stationery, website,
    signage, products, etc. (these mockups don't need to be finished designs at this
    point, the idea is just to help them visualize how the logo would look in actual
    use).\r\n\r\nIf presenting a type-only concept makes you nervous (and apparently
    it does), you may want to have some other concepts ready as alternatives. In most
    logo projects I've been involved with we typically presented several different
    concepts. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: AnaBanana
      picture: 126116
    body: "Yes indeed JamesM, it makes me pretty nervous. I charged her for a day
      worth of work on this logo and I've been breaking my head over it for 2 days
      now. I'm gonna be underpayed, but that's not the worst part. I think the worst
      part is that it will seem like I overpriced this logo in her eyes. \r\n\r\nI'm
      still struggling with how much to ask etc., thanks for the help. \r\nI will
      definately put the logo on some signage or products! \r\n\r\n"
    created: '2013-04-10 16:47:59'
  created: '2013-04-10 16:41:29'
- author:
    name: AnaBanana
    picture: 126116
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/16077a33b197619ec8b4d24c99842820_3497.jpg]\r\n\r\nJust
    wanted to show this to explain a little what I mean. \r\nMy client wants a logo
    like it would be for a fashion brand ... so all type would be nice. \r\n"
  created: '2013-04-10 16:42:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you're going to be underpaid, at least don't let a client's delusions
    bug you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-10 16:50:06'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I charged her for a day worth of work.... \r\n\r\nYou may have underbid,
    but once you give a client a price you can't increase it unless the scope of the
    project changes. A deal's a deal. But hey, you're still making some money and
    getting a portfolio piece. And maybe this can lead to other projects with her
    (brochures, web site, etc.)\r\n\r\n> the worst part is that it will seem like
    I \r\n> overpriced this logo in her eyes\r\n\r\nI understand how you feel, but
    if you've given this logo some careful thought and feel an all-type solution is
    the best approach, then you need to make your presentation with confidence and
    explain your reasoning.\r\n\r\nAnd if she doesn't like your approach, go back
    to the drawing board and come up with something else. I've been in presentations
    by big design firms where the client hated the initial logo concepts; it happens
    sometimes. That's why it's often a good idea to present multiple concepts, or
    at least have a few alternatives in your briefcase that you can pull out if the
    client doesn't like your main idea."
  children:
  - author:
      name: AnaBanana
      picture: 126116
    body: "> You may have underbid\r\n\r\nYeah, I still don't know how to calculate
      my working hours + inspiration hours + idea hours + experience ... \r\nI will
      learn from my mistakes I guess"
    created: '2013-04-10 21:28:03'
  created: '2013-04-10 18:02:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@AnaBanana: Selling someone a minimalist typographic concept is a common
    challenge. Be it a wordmark, layout, website &c. Primarily because it looks so
    simple, they think \u201CI could have done that myself\u201D and \u201Cit must
    have been easy for you to make that, so it\u2019s not worth much.\u201D\r\n\r\nTo
    make the sell easier, begin by clearly articulating your understanding of their
    context. Goals, clients, competition &c. This will create in them a sense of \u201Cthis
    person understands me.\u201D\r\n\r\nThen, lead them through your thought process,
    starting with concept sketches, various choices &c. Explain why these selections
    didn\u2019t make the cut.\r\n\r\nAfter leading them through this process, <em>then</em>
    show them your final concept. You will find them to be far more receptive if they
    know you were making informed decisions due to your understanding of their context,
    and that you explored alternatives which lead you to your final selection. It
    is this process that is of greatest value. Not the fact you appeared to have simply
    \u201Cchosen a font.\u201D\r\n\r\nThrough trial and error, I have found this method
    to be significantly more effect then simply showing them the final concept and
    asking them for feedback. This tends to result in the \u201Cthat looks boring
    and simple\u201D outcome. Back to the drawing-board. If they understand how you
    got there, they will see more value in your work \u2014 \u201CWow! I get it! This
    guy clearly but a lot of thought and consideration into this. I understand how
    he got there and how this seemingly simple design has inherent value. I feel smart.\u201D\r\n\r\nWhen
    showing a potential client my portfolio, almost all of which is minimalist type,
    it can be a hard sell at times. Showing them a \u201Cboring\u201D business card,
    possibly one of the strongest pieces, almost always results in \u201CReally? You
    think that\u2019s impressive?\u201D But, if I start by showing the original which
    I was asked to redesign, identified its shortcomings, explored longest and shortest
    names, factored across multiple degrees, long and short job titles, 2-4 phone
    numbers, 1\u20133 line address and so on, resulting in an automated in use by
    at least 3,000 employees at any given time over the course of a over a decade
    without breaking, and in order for a new employee to get cards, all they need
    to do is go to form on their intranet, enter their data, which is then sent to
    the printer, produced, and shipped back to them so they have cards waiting for
    them on their desk first thing Monday morning, all without human hands even touching
    them, the response is far closer to \u201CHoly crap that\u2019s awesome! How can
    I get one of those!\u201D Every time.\r\n\r\nI also strongly recommend against
    the \u201Cshow them three and let them pick their favourite\u201D meth0d. Ninety
    percent of the time you\u2019ll get the \u201Ca little from each\u201D result.
    Additionally, it undermines your authority. <strong>You</strong> are the expert
    with the ability to make informed decisions <em>by design</em> as opposed to by
    chance. To put the power of decision making in their hands takes this away from
    you and lessens their perception of your value. Upon entering into a business
    contract with you in which they are giving you money in exchange for knowledge,
    ability, and skills you possess and they do not, this should not be an issue,
    provided the process has been managed properly.\r\n\r\nI opt for a process based
    approach, allowing for revisions. It has been my experience that I seldom need
    more than three to arrive at a final solution\u2014provided there is a thorough
    brief which the client has signed off on, clearly stating what they understand,
    and what they intend you to deliver.\r\n\r\nIf they make a comment, suggestion,
    observation &c which you honestly did not consider, always say \u201CI did not
    think of that. Thank you for bring that to my attention. I will be mindful of
    that during my next round of revisions\u201D or something to that effect. Understand
    that your client knows more about their context they you can. Humility goes a
    long way in fostering trust and respect between client and designer, which in
    turn results in a more efficient process. If they make a comment about something
    you <em>did</em> consider, but chose not pursue, explain how and why. If they
    insist, there\u2019s not really a lot you can do. You put your best foot forward,
    empowered them to make informed decisions by explaining your work, but you can\u2019t
    take away their ability to choose. Going around in circles is bad for everyone.
    Everyone will get tired and frustrated, the work and relationship will suffer,
    and you probably won\u2019t see them again (at this point, you probably won\u2019t
    want to though either. Be mindful that time = money for all parties involved.\r\n\r\nCertainly
    have some fall-backs in place, and when all else fails, sell them their favourite
    colour, get sign-off, and move on to the next job."
  created: '2013-04-10 18:14:00'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: You should be aware many of those logos are custom drawn words.
  created: '2013-04-10 18:15:45'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I thought the title of this thread was about selling wordmarks with a typo
    ...lol. I just finished doing some work for ferrari dot com and caught a huge
    typo!\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-04-10 21:04:12'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">  it looks so simple, they think ... \r\n> \u201Cit must have been easy
    for you to make that\r\n\r\nYep. Taking complex ideas and distilling them into
    a simple solution can be very difficult, but clients often don't realize that.
    \r\n\r\n> I still don't know how to calculate my working hours\r\n\r\nThat's a
    common problem. I've been doing this for 30 years and I still miscalculate all
    the time. But it helps to break it down into categories. How much time will I
    spend talking/meeting with the client? How long doing research? Concepts? Final
    art? Revisions? (Or as one of my design professors once said, carefully calculate
    how long the job will take; then multiply by 3 ;)"
  created: '2013-04-10 22:20:26'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'You sell it like how you sell any design solution. You show how the solution
    meets their business needs. How it fits into their target market, objectives and
    strategy. '
  created: '2013-04-11 05:35:31'
- author:
    name: AnaBanana
    picture: 126116
  body: "@Chris Dean : thanks for that extended comment. Interesting point of view.
    I will definately do the \"how I got there\" approach! How ever I think I will
    show a few options, I can't resist :)\r\n\r\n@Frode Bo Helland: What about the
    helvetica logo's etc. Those aren't custom drawn words right? Sometimes it can
    really just be the font. \r\n\r\n@JamesM : very interesting the \"multiply by
    3\", might be very accurate in my case ;)\r\n\r\nExtra question: you think it
    would help if I let clients know that these fonts cost a lot of money too. Or
    is this irrelevant? \r\n\r\nThanks all !\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-11 09:15:30'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>What about the helvetica logo's etc. Those aren't custom drawn
    words right? Sometimes it can really just be the font.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes,
    but where off the shelf typographic solutions have been used it is often in conjunction
    with a brand where it makes sense. If you can explain and justify your reasons
    for an off the shelf solution then go ahead."
  created: '2013-04-11 10:22:56'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>Extra question: you think it would help if I let clients know
    that these fonts cost a lot of money too. Or is this irrelevant?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat
    is very relevant, particularly if your design solution is not the only consideration
    for how they will use the typeface. In a large corporation a brand redesign incorporating
    a typeface could result in that typeface being used for every conceivable kind
    of output, including digital embedding, web fonts, broadcasting, all of which
    they will need to license for. If they are going to be paying for it, and considerably
    more than your consultation fee (possibly year on year), they will want to know
    that up front."
  created: '2013-04-11 10:23:47'
- author:
    name: AnaBanana
    picture: 126116
  body: "@ Karl Stange: Thanks for the feedback. \r\nAbout off the shelf typo: do
    you think for example BMW and JEEP wanted to relate their brand with a ready made
    font? \r\nI wonder how the ad men explained this off the shelf font for what is
    supposed to be a luxury car?\r\nWhat do you think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/helvetica_logos1_3569.jpg]"
  created: '2013-04-11 10:38:53'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: To my mind neither Jeep nor BMW are good examples, as I would imagine that
    most people (e.g., people buying the cars or consuming media in which these brands
    would likely show up) see a car before they see the typeface. With that in mind
    I would imagine that the primary concern with any update to those brands would
    focus on emphasising the core traits of those brands, embracing their history
    as much as their contemporary perception by consumers, jobs for which I would
    imagine many existing typefaces serve that purpose. You could <em>probably</em>
    choose a number of similar typefaces to do the job without greatly changing perception
    of the logo/logotype.
  created: '2013-04-11 11:26:15'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I wonder how the ad men explained this off the \r\n> shelf font for what
    is supposed to be a luxury car?\r\n\r\nI doubt if the subject even came up. The
    designers' jobs included picking appropriate fonts. They showed their layouts
    and the clients approved."
  created: '2013-04-11 16:56:05'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> you think it would help if I let clients know \r\n> that these fonts cost
    a lot of money too. \r\n\r\nThere are two issues here. If you mean you want to
    impress them that you paid a lot of money out-of-pocket for those fonts, reducing
    your profit because your bid included any expenses, well that's up to you. \r\n\r\nBut
    if you mean that THEY will need to purchase copies of those fonts, that's a separate
    issue. They won't need fonts to reproduce the logos because you'll provide finished
    logos in formats that don't require them to have the fonts on their computer (bitmapped,
    or vector art where the type has been converted to paths). So they would only
    need the fonts if you're recommending that they also use those same fonts when
    setting text (in ads, for example). In that case the cost of fonts would be highly
    relevant, since they'll need to purchase copies. "
  created: '2013-04-11 16:59:06'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "AnaBanana, in all your designer / client relationships this is all you'll
    ever need to do...\r\n\r\nDon't sell the steak, sell the sizzle!\r\n\r\n;)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eUmxGqsuKmY\r\n\r\nn."
  created: '2013-04-11 19:51:22'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "The logo is the sizzle \u2013 the identity is the steak.\r\n\r\nA logo on
    its own is only half a job \u2013\_you should also demonstrate how it works in
    practice either with mockups or visuals.\r\n\r\nFor example a clothing line will
    need packaging \u2013 even if it is only a bag or stationery or a mocked up embroidered
    logo, how and where you apply it \u2013 what colours you use it on; whether you
    have to develop a small-use logo with simpler more open features; how small it
    can go how it would work on an illuminated sign. Demonstrate that you have considered
    the production processes.\r\n\r\nA couple of mood or concept boards showing thought
    process, a couple of logo presentation boards (1 showing the logo in all its glory,
    1 showing the minimum size, exclusion zones, colour and mono versions) and a couple
    of boards of visuals or mockups.\r\n\r\nIf the logo is accepted the development
    for all the collateral can be used to cover your costs.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2013-04-12 14:07:43'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "<blockquote>The logo is the sizzle \u2013 the identity is the steak.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNo.\r\n\r\nDifferent
    cuts of steak have different identities, t-bone, sirloin, etc.. The 'logo' is
    an integral element to a particular cut of steak.  Think of the logo as the marbling
    of fat content, or the bone in the t-bone, etc.. The rest of the identity is defined
    by texture, shape, colors, etc..\r\n\r\nPaul Rand added character to IBM's branding/identity
    by simply adding a few horizontal lines to the existing capital letters. Think
    of those few horizontal lines as the marbling of fat in a sirloin steak. Those
    lines define IBM's identity. And how those lines are PERCEIVED is the sizzle of
    the steak.\r\n\r\nIn Rand's words 'a logo can only be successful by association'.
    How that association is perceived is the sizzle. It is how YOU perceive the mark.
    Not the other way around. \r\n\r\nDon't sell steak, sell the sizzle.\r\n\r\nLogos
    in general (and the overall identities too, and to a certain extent graphic design
    in general) have become trite and stale just because of the failure to teach that
    simple principle on the college or university level! \r\n\r\nIn my humble opinion
    of course.\r\n\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2013-04-14 18:41:19'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "No, no, no.\r\n\r\nThe steak is product, and the plate is the identity. The
    broccoli is the logo. And the napkin is the...uh...style guide? Wait, no. That's
    not right. What's for dessert? "
  created: '2013-04-14 18:50:49'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> The logo is the sizzle \u2013 the identity is the steak.\r\n\r\nI honestly
    don't know what the traditional thinking on this is, but to me the steak is the
    company's product or service, and the sizzle is customer's benefit (often hyped
    to an absurd level in the ads) from that product or service. \r\n\r\nOr something
    like that. These are expressions used more by ad agencies than by identity designers.\r\n\r\n>
    A logo on its own is only half a job \r\n\r\nAgree completely. It always annoys
    me when I see designers doing identity projects and at the end they just hand
    over a logo and consider the project done. That's only a fraction of the work
    that needs to be done to build an identity system. "
  created: '2013-04-15 00:24:43'
- author:
    name: AnaBanana
    picture: 126116
  body: "Hahaha, I love how this conversation is going ;) \r\n\r\nAnyway, I just had
    my meeting with the client and she loved the steak and the sizzle! \r\nI showed
    her my process from her moodboard to mine, to the final logo and put it on a shop
    sign and a small add. \r\nShe chose the logo I loved the most which was an all
    font logo where I adapted the letters a little bit. \r\n\r\nThanks all for the
    advice and the support !!"
  created: '2013-04-15 14:01:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good going!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-15 14:20:38'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Glad to hear it went well.
  created: '2013-04-15 15:46:28'
- author:
    name: washishu
    picture: 124368
  body: Oh dear. I'm a vegetarian. What do I do? Can I use tofu instead?
  created: '2013-04-16 11:06:59'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "I'm sure tofu could sizzle and the best gyoza I have had were avocado and
    tofu and they definitely sizzled!\r\n\r\nOh dear, now I'm hungry."
  created: '2013-04-17 15:16:52'
date: '2013-04-10 13:37:13'
title: How to sell logo design with only typo

---
