---
author:
  name: Core0
  picture: 123795
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hikari-01-tiny_4906.jpg]\r\n\r\nBefore
  the Haas Type Foundry released Helvetica in 1957, constructivist sans serif fonts
  were classified as <em>Grotesk</em>, a term that reflected the dismissive notion
  of typesetters in previous times. It was Art Deco and the Bauhaus movement, along
  with modernist architecture, fresh ideas and stricter shapes in interior design,
  a style influenced by industrial and technological developments, that made Grotesk
  fonts more popular over time.\r\n<!--break-->\r\nEver since the introduction of
  Helvetica Neue, classicistic sans serif fonts have been domineered by this Swiss
  style. Over the last six decades, typesetters, designers and typographers remembered
  and used other constructivist sans serif styles, like Futura and Neuzeit. In the
  late 1980s, American classics like Trade Gothic and Franklin Gothic were used again
  in Advertising, so the American newspaper title style has been a second strong influence
  on sans serif fonts and Adrian Frutiger\u2019s typeface for the Parisian airport,
  Frutiger, sparked a rennaissance of humanist sans serif fonts.\r\n\r\nIt seems impossible
  to reimagine a constructivist or classicistic sans serif without taking one of these
  previous styles in account. However, its tone of voice can still be different.\r\n\r\nA
  typeface represents a tone of voice, a memory of cultural aspects of a time, faintly
  resonating a certain Zeitgeist. It is often hidden in the subtle language of shapes,
  but also linked to applied documents and works associated with the use of the typeface
  over time. A cultural association is imprinted in the beginning, but perception
  changes over time. \r\n\r\nWe interpret new things with the language we learned
  from existing things. It\u2019s interesting to see how typefaces like Helvetica
  Neue gained popularity in Japan, a country and culture that in the last century
  stood for discipline, strictness, but also beauty and simplicity in design and architecture.
  But it was used for English words, an inspill of Western influenced cultural elements,
  or the Japanese interpretation of those elements.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hikari-02-tiny_5399.jpg]\r\n\r\nHikari
  is a font with a Japanese touch. It is primarily a Latin font with no relations
  to Hiragana, Kanji or Katagana. And yet, the sense for proportions, a strict architecture
  and its overall feeling transmits a faint memory of Japanese post war culture assimilating
  and accumulating Western typography.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hikari-04-tiny_3526.jpg]\r\n\r\nHikari
  will be first released as a family of four cuts, ranging from Light to Black. Italic
  styles and a monospaced version will follow, with a possible expansion to a super
  family for various screen and print applications.\r\n\r\nA free version for Web
  design is planned as well, licencesed as a Google Webfont family with a smaller
  set of styles.\r\n\r\nThere is still a lot of work ahead until the font will be
  released: accent glyphs are in works, as well as special characters. It is also
  possible that at some point in future, Hikari may be released as a Japanese version.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hikari-03-tiny_3962.jpg]\r\n\r\n<em>(Please
  have a look at the attached images, which look better on a MacBook Pro retina than
  the inline images)</em>"
comments:
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "Unfortunately I cannot edit my entry. Of course, \u201Cmonotone\u201D should
    mean \u201Cmono spaced\u201D."
  created: '2013-04-11 15:37:48'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: I'm quite taken with the lowercase a and other subtle touches. Nicely done!
    What are your licensing plans?
  created: '2013-04-11 16:43:45'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "Thanks \u2013 I am not quite sure yet. It will probably be released under
    the label River, or I may talk to type foundries and see if they are interested.
    It is still a long way to go until then. I hope to have the basic four versions
    ready by end of May/June, but I will probably not release them until they have
    Italic counterparts."
  created: '2013-04-11 17:20:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I usually don't like grots, but this one has an austere charm. I also like
    your explanatory text very much.\r\n\r\nWhat will the Italic look like?\r\n\r\nLicensing:
    aim high, make it exclusive. The people who <em>must</em> have this would pay
    dearly for it, and it will develop a cachet by being rare.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-11 17:31:02'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "Thanks for your advice! For the Italic I have planned a \u201Ctrue Italic\u201D
    (despite the discussions lately that constructive sans serif fonts shouldn\u2019t
    have a round lowercase \u201Ca\u201D). I am also thinking about including alternative
    characters in Open Type, but I have yet to master the software and better understand
    OT principles. \r\n\r\nI have drawn Hikari in Fontographer (after a few initial
    sketches by hand), then converted it to Fontlab and I have been playing with a
    test version of Glyphs, which feels much more like modern software, but either
    I\u2019m missing something or features like extrapolation (changing weight proportionally)
    are missing. I am suspecting they are done with Multiple Master layers, but I
    am not sure."
  created: '2013-04-11 17:36:29'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: I have also thought about the free versus exclusive licensing scheme. I think
    making only a few cuts free (like Regular and Light only) would bring much wider
    distribution. Once Web designers start using it for websites, a larger audience
    will be introduced to the font. And that may be the door opener to magazines,
    book- oder other designers licensing the full package.
  created: '2013-04-11 17:41:10'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Very nicely done. And I'd concur with setting a good price for it.
  created: '2013-04-11 17:47:57'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "Thanks for the example. I think I have seen Ernestine before. I love how
    it takes a typewriter inspiration and evolves it into something very charming,
    playful and in the Italic even delightful typeface. The Italic keeps the proportions
    and rythm alive, but borrows the handwriting element (as rennaissance and baroque
    antiquas do), which breaks with the Egyptienne sense over the regular style.\r\n\r\nI
    haven\u2019t begun yet working on the Italic cuts of Hikari, as I am still busy
    with accents, special characters, subtle weight adjustments, spacing and kerning.
    And then there are Open Type features I want to look at, before I can even start
    thinking about the intermediate cuts, like Book (between Light and Regular), Medium,
    Bold and the Italics. I will try out a few things with the latter before I settle
    with a theme, but like you suggested, it would be challenging but nice if it could
    take it all a level higher."
  created: '2013-04-11 17:56:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Those discussions aren't \"lately\".  :-)\r\nIf you will indeed be aiming
    for exclusivity with this, you might consider making a special kind of Italic.
    I would suggest a tasteful variation on a slanted version of the Roman. But if
    you want it to be more acceptable to more people, make a predictable Italic. Let
    me use something I was involved in as an example:\r\nhttp://ernestinefont.com/\r\nThe
    Roman is great, but to me the Italic is what really makes it super special.\r\n\r\nI
    think the \"freemium\" model you describe can indeed work wonders (although I
    wouldn't give away more than one style) but make sure it fits with the overall
    philosophy you adopt.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-11 18:01:43'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hikari-ampersand_4690.jpg]\r\n\r\nA lot
    of cleanup work has been done since my announcement last week. I have completed
    work on the special characters, like mathematical and Greek glyphs, as well as
    accents and little headaches, like the ampersand glyph. \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s always
    difficult to make a decision for the design of a classicist sans serif. Theoretically,
    the classicist sans serif follows the shapes of the classicist antiqua and the
    earlier baroque antiqua, which are standing at the end of an evolution of renaissance
    typefaces. Theoretically, the classicist sans serif ampersand should derive from
    these shapes, like seen in Bodoni, Times and Georgia (which in essence, are modern
    baroque antiquas). However, grotesk typefaces have come a long way in abstracting
    that shape and modern sans serif fonts have even returned to the roots, going
    back to the original ligature shape of a capital, handwriting E and the lowercase
    letter t, forming a ligature of \u201CEt\u201D (from Latin, et).\r\n\r\nI tried
    to come up with an ampersand that derives from the classicist form, but follows
    the clarity of formal language of the typeface as a whole. I am not sure if I
    succeeded 100%, but it seemed better than following the  recent trend of taking
    \u201CEt\u201D as a literal ligature.\r\n\r\nYour thoughts and comments are welcome
    \u2013 Hikari is still a work in progress."
  created: '2013-04-17 15:23:41'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "Here is a closeup in Hikari Regular:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hikari-ampersand-closeup_4733.jpg]"
  created: '2013-04-17 15:27:42'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "A direct comparison of the shapes of &, S and 8:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hikari-ampserand-comparison_4608.jpg]"
  created: '2013-04-17 15:31:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, it might not be too close to <em>that</em> \"8\" but to me it is too
    close to <em>an</em> \"8\"...\r\n\r\nProgress is awesome, but ideology shouldn't
    be allowed to throw a wrench in the results.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-17 16:50:15'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: Isn't the most common ampersand shape, &, also very close to an 8? If I would
    use a straight E instead of the handwriting E, which looks like a flipped 3, would
    you think that would work better?
  created: '2013-04-17 16:59:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My own favorite form is open-top and \"armless\", which you can see here:
    http://themicrofoundry.com/ad/CR.pdf\r\n\r\nAnd I think you can actually make
    that work for Hikari since it has that \"purity\". (It does require some extra
    kerning though.)\r\n\r\nBut you might just be able to open the top of the one
    you have, and be set.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-17 17:49:55'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>But you might just be able to open the top of the one you have,
    and be set.</blockquote>\r\n \r\nThat's the next step I was going to suggest."
  created: '2013-04-17 17:55:36'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hikari-amp-b-o_4381.jpg]\r\nThis helped
    a lot. Thanks for your suggestions. I will try one more variant with a classic
    ampersand shape, but I do like this a lot already, particularly how it provides
    a cleaner, more open look."
  created: '2013-04-17 18:49:37'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'I''d make the top half smaller and bottom half bigger to make the area of
    the counters closer to equal. '
  created: '2013-04-17 19:31:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The ampersand looks too much like 8. \r\nAt text size, readers will be confused.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nYour
    historical terms are incorrect, which may be a language problem.\r\n\r\nGrotesk
    was not a derogatory term.\r\n\r\nFrutiger did not spark a renaissance in humanist
    sans type, as there was never much of that in the \uFB01rst place, other than
    Gill Sans and Syntax, which was published not long before. The German version
    of Gill Sans with single-storey /a and /g could hardly be considered humanist\u2014see
    my post with image here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/44358\r\n\r\nConstructivism
    in type is generally understood to refer to the rectangular, blocky style of lettering
    used in the Soviet Constructivist movement by Rodchenko etc.\r\n\r\nYour understanding
    of type history and type classi\uFB01cation is unconventional.\r\nEither you are
    spreading misinformation, if readers believe what you are saying, and if they
    don\u2019t, they will think you poorly informed.\r\n\r\nIt may well be that Japan
    has in\uFB02uenced your design of this face, but it is unlikely that anyone else
    will be aware of Japanese connotations from what is essentially a generic neo-grotesque.\r\n\r\nNonetheless,
    as you have chosen a Japanese name and are pursuing that allusion, I would recommend
    that you develop that idea in your writing and branding, and forget the other
    historical explanations.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nI would also recommend that you publish
    at least eight weights, include multiple OpenType features, and have extended
    language support. That\u2019s a huge amount of work, but necessary to sell licences
    for such a subtle genre exercise in such a crowded marketplace. \r\n\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2013-04-17 19:32:51'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Edited \u201Cmonotone\u201D to \u201Cmonospaced.\u201D"
  created: '2013-04-17 21:23:58'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: Thank you Chris, I would have done that myself if I could!
  created: '2013-04-17 21:46:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The German word \u201Ckonstruktiv\u201D is not automatically associated
    with Russian constructivism.</em>\r\n\r\nHowever, that is not the case in English,
    where Constructivist will be assumed to refer to Constructivism, by those with
    any knowledge of art history. Faces such as Futura are termed \u201Cgeometric\u201D.\r\n\r\n<em>Maybe
    there exists a dissertation clearing up why he came up with the term\u2026<em>\r\n\r\nhttp://typefoundry.blogspot.ca/2007/01/nymph-and-grot-update.html\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-17 22:50:41'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "My education in graphic design was at the Schule f\xFCr Gestaltung in St.
    Gallen, where I had two typography teachers from 1983 until 1989, one from Zurich
    and one from St. Gallen. \r\n\r\nIt may sound surprising, but even with the three
    design schools of Basel, Zurich and St. Gallen, there was a subtle rivalry among
    typography teachers about what was correct and what was incorrect.\r\n\r\nI remember
    one afternoon where us students were surrounding a handprint letterpress machine,
    with printed type specimens in Syntax and Haassche Grotesk hung on the wall. One
    of the students asked our teacher why they used to call those sans serif fonts
    \u201Cgrotesk\u201D, and my teacher replied that at the time before it became
    popular, typographers found the minimalism and abstraction of shape a lack of
    elegance and sophistication. They found it was a sign of cheapness and mundanity.
    He also noted the connection to the ongoing industrial revolution that almost
    demanded this kind of change in typographic spirit. *\r\n\r\nSo my reference may
    not be historically complete, if William Thorowgood really invented the term.
    Maybe there exists a dissertation clearing up <em>why</em> he came up with the
    term, but to me, the explanation of my typography teacher always made sense, in
    art historic context.\r\n\r\nThe font Frutiger was the first of its kind, which
    I am sure had an influence on Gerard Unger\u2019s Argo (even if it evolved from
    Swift), or Luc de Groot\u2019s Thesis family.\r\n\r\nGill Sans and Syntax have
    a stronger connection to renaissance proportions than classicist or baroque antiqua
    proportions.\r\n\r\nEnglish is indeed my second language. The German word \u201Ckonstruktiv\u201D
    is not automatically associated with Russian constructivism. In my typography
    courses we were touching the works of [[https://lh4.googleusercontent.com/Toy5yzXrh_QKT16JstccjwM_asbgKpyl0B7xnCT6dgJEh9Q_zJ4qHNs1D8JP9hZqEkHSxARv8XF5eOW-__IXOCbQFneQFxPOsCvIUMYLnO9LnKyU-Ks|Jan
    Tschichold]] as well, but also [[http://designkultur.files.wordpress.com/2011/02/paul-renners-first-drawings-for-futura.jpg|Paul
    Renner\u2019s studies]] preceding his release of Futura. \r\n\r\nAccording to
    my teachers, there were basically three sans serif directions: the humanist one
    (Gill Sans), the constructive one (Futura, Bauhaus) and the classicist one (Haassche
    Grotesk, Helvetica, Univers).\r\n\r\nRegarding the Japanese reference in the choice
    of name \u2013 I believe this is enough to give the typeface a certain direction.
    Any sense of culture and style I project into the Hikari type family may be personal
    and nothing but a tone of voice I want to convey.\r\n\r\nNever the less it is
    true and relevant for the concept I have chosen. As a designer I was influenced
    by the assimilation of Western typography in current Japanese culture. It is of
    course completely irrelevant whether people seeing an application of the font
    will or will not make this connection \u2013 just as much it is irrelevant if
    an audience will think of the Swiss school of design, when they see an application
    of Helvetica Neue.\r\n\r\nThank you for your recommendations. They go along with
    what I suggested throughout this discussion.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\n<em>[[http://www.wordnik.com/words/grotesque|*
    Grotesque:]]</em>\r\n\r\n<em>1. Characterized by ludicrous or incongruous distortion,
    as of appearance or manner.</em>\r\n<em>2. Outlandish or bizarre, as in character
    or appearance. See Synonyms at fantastic.</em>\r\n<em>3. Of, relating to, or being
    the grotesque style in art or a work executed in this style.</em>"
  created: '2013-04-17 23:27:08'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "Interesting, and I do understand that the differences in terminology have
    their roots in different language and cultures combined. The Swiss design and
    typography culture is strongly impacted by its past and great minds of those times.\r\n\r\nApparently
    both references to the heritage of grotesque/grotesk are correct. Here is a translation
    of the text beneath, which I found [[http://www.typolexikon.de/g/grotesk.html|in
    this source]]:\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CSemantically, the term \u2018grotesque\u2019 derives
    from the neo-French language of the 17th century, at first as an expression of
    the liberal arts to describe non-natural combinations of human, animal and plant
    parts. In etymology this term is borrowed from the Italian \u2018grottesco\u2019,
    which actually means \u2018being part of the cave\u2019. It refers to antique
    paintings and type or carving signs, which were discovered in caves and rooms
    filled with rubble. In Germany sans serif fonts are called \u2018Grotesk\u2019
    until this date [4].\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nOriginal text: <em>\u201CSemantisch stammt
    der Begiff \xBBgrotesque\xAB aus der neufranz\xF6sischen Sprache des 17. Jahrhunderts,
    zun\xE4chst als Ausdruck der bildenden Kunst f\xFCr nicht-nat\xFCrliche Kombinationen
    von Menschen-, Tier- und Pflanzen-Teilen. Dieser Begriff ist etymologisch aus
    dem italienischen \xBBgrottesco\xAB entlehnt, das eigentlich \xBBzur H\xF6hle
    geh\xF6rig\xAB bedeutet. Gemeint sind damit antike Malereien und Schrift- bzw.
    Kerbzeichen, die in H\xF6hlen und versch\xFCtteten R\xE4umen entdeckt wurden.
    In Deutschland werden serifenlose Schriften bis heute als \xBBGrotesk\xAB bezeichnet
    [4].\u201D</em>"
  created: '2013-04-17 23:28:28'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture_4948.png]\r\n[[http://metmuseum.org/Collections/search-the-collections/90061974|Visual
    aid.]] "
  created: '2013-04-17 23:43:59'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@Core0: \u201C\u2026<em>in this source</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t speak
    German. Can you translate the text at the top of that web page and provide a bibliographical
    reference in addition to a \u201Cclick here\u201D link? Ambiguous links also create
    barriers for visually impaired readers using text-to-speech readers as they provide
    no contextual information regarding their destination.\r\n\r\nImagine the thread
    a year from now when that link is no longer active, but someone still wants so
    search for/reference it."
  created: '2013-04-18 00:42:48'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "I translated the paragraph that was referring to the etymological and semantic
    source of the word grotesque. I am sorry, but I am not going to translate the
    entire page of the lexicon.\r\n\r\nThe German quote sits right beneath its English
    translation. The whole paragraph beginning with \u201CSemantically...\u201D is
    the translation of the paragraph beginning with \u201CSemantisch...\u201D.\r\n\r\nWith
    all due respect, visually impaired readers may care about the discussion, but
    they will not see the images I provided, thus they will have no idea what the
    actual font looks like that sparked this discussion.\r\n\r\nThat said, I fully
    support the idea of a barrier-free Web.\r\n\r\nBibliographic reference:\r\nWolfgang
    Beinert, typolexikon.de\r\n\r\n<em>Typo Lexicon</em>\r\n<em>The Lexicon For European
    Tyopgraphy</em>\r\n<em>Published by Wolfang Beinert : Berlin, Online Since 2002</em>\r\n<em>Typo
    Academy Berlin</em>\r\n<em><a href=\"http://www.typolexikon.de/g/grotesk.html\"
    title=\"typolexicon.de\">http://www.typolexikon.de/g/grotesk.html</a></em>"
  created: '2013-04-18 14:11:10'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "<blockquote>According to my teachers, there were basically three sans serif
    directions: the humanist one (Gill Sans), the constructive one (Futura, Bauhaus)
    and the classicist one (Haassche Grotesk, Helvetica, Univers).</blockquote>\r\nExactly.
    No matter what words we use, I think we talk about the same forms. \r\n\r\nThe
    typeface Frutiger is the result of Adrian Frutiger being the first type designer
    having a modernist take on the humanist sans. I can confirm that Frutiger had
    a huge influence on people like Gerard Unger, Lucas de Groot, Peter Matthias Noordzij
    and myself. Just to name a few, and not just because of Frutiger. His book Type
    Sign Symbol was an eye-opner to many designers that were at one side educated
    as traditional typographers but also appreciated the modernist movement.\r\n\r\nIn
    Germany, the constructivist movement in art was one of the major forces that made
    Tschichold, Renner, Bayer and Schmidt look into the sign-painters and lettering
    manuals in which geometric typefaces, amongst them were also sans serifs, had
    been tumbling around for about 50 years. Creating a single storey lower case a
    from a perfect circle and a vertical stroke is as old as that."
  created: '2013-04-18 15:25:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Albert Jan: <em>No matter what words we use, I think we talk about the same
    forms.</em>\r\n\r\nBut if I hear the word Constructivist in a discussion of type,
    I will assume the conversation concerns the heavy rectilinear lettering of Soviet
    Constructivist posters, not the circle-square-triangle of Futura. This is the
    clich\xE9:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1664651272488969_5794.jpg]\r\n\r\n@Henning:
    <em>In the late 1980s, American classics like Trade Gothic and Franklin Gothic
    were used again in Advertising, so the American newspaper title style has been
    a second strong influence on sans serif fonts\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThis makes no
    sense.\r\nTrade Gothic and News Gothic were all-purpose jobbing types, not just
    news headline styles. And they had been used continuously prior to the late 1980s,
    so to say that they were used \u201Cagain\u201D, implying that they had fallen
    from use, is incorrect.\r\n\r\nThere are four places to \uFB01nd type history:\r\n(1)
    Awards annuals and other design trade hagiography\r\n(2) Foundry specimen books\r\n(3)
    Type house catalogues\r\n(4) Contemporary publications\r\n\r\nDesign history as
    taught in design schools is, of course, academic, and IMO overly invested in (1)
    and (2).\r\n\r\nThis next from a type house catalogue in Toronto, 1929, at the
    end of the Historicist era. You can \uFB01nd Franklin Gothic in North American
    type house catalogues continuously since its introduction. It was never replaced
    by geometrics, but augmented.\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Moore_6355.jpg]\r\nThe
    use of the term \u201Cgrotesque\u201D for the older style of sans serif was in
    no way a value judgement; neither was \u201Cgothic\u201D, which initially described
    Northern European culture, but was subsequently in the 19th and 20th centuries
    more generally associated with an ornate style of medieval architecture. These
    words had long since been stripped of their original meanings."
  created: '2013-04-18 20:50:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>What is it that gives Fenland the flair of a flat, grassy landscape</blockquote>\r\n\r\nFWIW,
    I don't see that (and I even have the printed specimen).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Core0
      picture: 123795
    body: "From what I read, <em>fenland</em> is a term for grassy marshland. Maybe
      that makes me want to see the slightly bent shapes of long grass in it. The
      leaves and tree tips, as well as the painted background in the PDF specimen
      are artistic, stylistic elements that underline the organic feeling of the typeface.
      Of course, as it is always the case with art direction, it\u2019s all a question
      of interpretation.\r\n\r\nWhen I first saw specimen of the Fenland family, I
      was reminded of urban Sweden and a dry, nordic landscape."
    created: '2013-04-18 23:44:28'
  created: '2013-04-18 23:27:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I didn\u2019t announce my work on Hikari in order to trigger a dogmatic
    discourse about etymologic roots and categorical ontology of typeface specifications
    throughout the history of time.</em>\r\n\r\nBut you did say \u201Cyour thoughts
    and comments are welcome\u201D, and that is the kind of discourse that is to be
    expected at Typophile! (Although I wouldn\u2019t equate a strong argument with
    dogma.)\r\n\r\nI alerted you to the fact that what you had written about the face\u2019s
    provenance was, in my opinion as someone who speaks English as my \uFB01rst language
    and is familiar with type and design history in the English-speaking world, especially
    North America \u2014 not quite right \u2014 and I have attempted to explain why.
    \r\n\r\nIn mentioning the marketability of the face I described it as a generic
    neo-grotesque, which was not intended as a negative comment. I was in\uFB02uenced
    by what Ivo Grabowitsch, FontFont Marketing Director, had said last week at the
    Typo San Francisco conference in his talk about \u201Cwhat type customers need
    today\u201D, in which he proposed more originality and fewer subtle interpretations.
    \r\n\r\nAccordingly, if one is going to riff on a classic, this makes it a commercial
    imperative to publish large fonts and big families, which seems to be the case
    with Aktiv, Runda, etc.\r\n\r\nBTW, of that list I wouldn\u2019t class Colfax
    and Grot10 as neo-grotesque."
  created: '2013-04-19 06:04:16'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "[[http://www.artgallery.nsw.gov.au/education/education-materials/education-kits/exhibition-kits/mad-square/constructivism/]]\r\nHmm..."
  created: '2013-04-19 11:56:13'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Though I like the intention to do something a bit different, I think it'd
    be wise to include a 'normal' alternate. Fonts often have a dealbreaking glyph
    \u2013 for example in the otherwise lovely Arno, I personally have a problem with
    the ampersand and the five \u2013 which can be enough to put people off using
    the font."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Core0
      picture: 123795
    body: "Thanks, Ben \u2013 I agree. This is where OpenType comes in handy. I will
      look into the option of variations of the ampersand. I share your feeling, by
      the way, with the lowercase <em>a</em> of Colfax. It is likely what makes the
      font original, a style element that promotes recognition, but it still looks
      like a blister. ;)"
    created: '2013-04-19 13:01:10'
  created: '2013-04-19 12:41:54'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "Thanks for your words, Nick. I am aware of the passionate discussion and
    I didn\u2019t take it the wrong way. Like I said, I was not so much aware of the
    differences of terminology in the English speaking and German speaking <em>schools
    of typography</em> (in a cultural way). \r\n\r\nFranklin Gothic, Trade Gothic
    and other classic American grotesque fonts never went out of fashion in the U.S.
    and Canada perhaps, but they were never really used in Europe prior to the late
    eighties, early nineties. I was an art director at a European advertising agency
    in 1993 and we had all recent editions of the TDC books and subscribed to a couple
    of typography and design magazines (it was the eighties, they still had money).
    I remember how our art directors were typographically influenced by what they
    saw in American print ads. For an example, we didn\u2019t use Futura Extrabold
    Condensed much, but it was popular in New York ad agencies.\r\n\r\nWhile I am
    personally more a fan of books, magazines and posters using refined typography,
    it is a reality that the big living body of typography (= fonts applied in daily
    life) live in the mass media, mostly advertising in print and on TV, and lately
    mostly on the Web \u2013 which is why I find it important to cultivate the typography
    that is meant primarily for screen applications.\r\n\r\nThere are a couple of
    interesting developments going on, among them <em>responsive typography</em>,
    different cuts of the same typeface that are used depending on the use of the
    medium, which means the screen size, the screen resolution, but also the use of
    the application (surrounding environments). The <em>responsive</em> part of the
    term derives from <em>responsive architecture</em>, a philosophy or principle
    that lets people experience their surrounding architecture depending on the circumstances
    (night/day, winter/summer, few people/a lot of people in the same space, for an
    example).\r\n\r\nI think a modern typeface should indeed be made for multiple
    purposes and if the designer aims for a wide spread application of their typeface,
    they should make fonts applicable for these environments \u2013 print, screen
    on TV, high resolution screens on computers, etc.\r\n\r\nHikari is not designed
    to be a bread-and-butter font for book or longform journalism. But I hope it could
    become a responsive typeface, with enough weight and spacing variations and cuts
    (like a monospaced version) for various applications. I will definitely look into
    multiple languages, but this is the part that makes the release such a big amount
    of work.\r\n\r\nLast but not least, it is my first release in 20 years and I am
    looking into more ideas for future typefaces, like a humanist sans serif and a
    renaissance or baroque antiqua.\r\n\r\nOne last word on <em>constructivism</em>.\r\n\r\nI
    did some research last night and found that the source of <em>russian constructivism</em>
    was demolished by the <em>Russian Bolshevism</em> around the time of 1920s, but
    its spirit had sparked a fire that lived on in the rest of Europe as <em>international
    constructivism</em>, particularly in Germany, where it influenced the creation
    of the <em>Bauhaus</em> and the associated movement. It had an influence on Paul
    Renner, when he began working on Futura, but of course the typeface he released
    is today not classified as <em>constructivist</em> but <em>geometric</em>. Still,
    in German (and Dutch) language the word <em>konstruktiv</em> is used to describe
    a dry and strict, rather geometric character of a piece of art, design or article
    of daily use."
  created: '2013-04-19 12:56:08'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "I understand your premise, but beg to differ on Colfax. :)\r\nhttp://typographica.org/typeface-reviews/colfax/"
  created: '2013-04-20 03:47:42'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "Sure, Marc \u2013 I think Colfax lies balanced between a geometric and a
    classicist sans serif. I would say it leans towards grotesque, or classicist shapes.
    Why? Because all endings of open circular shapes (the lowercase \u201Ca\u201D,
    upper left ending, the lowercase \u201Cc\u201D, \u201Ce\u201D, etc.) are closing
    with the horizontal invisible line. They are bent towards a 90\xBA up or down
    direction. Humanist sans serif typefaces often have endings towards a vertical
    line, or they are slightly bent.\r\n\r\nThe main feature that makes Colfax lean
    towards the geometric sans serif is the lowercase \u201Ca\u201D with its round
    belly, similar like Proxima Nova and early alternative versions in drawings of
    Futura.\r\n\r\nInteresting enough, Avenir and Gotham, as well as Proxima Nova,
    are all classified geometric sans serif typefaces, but only Proxima Nova has a
    similar lowercase a shape like Colfax."
  created: '2013-04-20 14:04:23'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "I\u2019m sorry, but I didn\u2019t announce my work on Hikari in order to
    trigger a dogmatic discourse about etymologic roots and categorical ontology of
    typeface specifications throughout the history of time.\r\n\r\nI learned through
    this discussion, that the terminology of modern typography varies a lot in European
    and American culture, and I assume it may be similarly different in other regions
    and cultures. And of course, an exchange with people with a passion for a certain
    field will always create passionate discussions. \r\n\r\nHowever, my intention
    was simply to introduce you to a new font with a slightly different outlook, with
    an aesthetic orientation that differentiates itself from the traditional rails
    of yet another purist Akzidenz Grotesk or Helvetica interpretation. As subtle
    this reference may be, I regard it as a legitimate direction.\r\n\r\nWhat is it
    that gives <a href=\"http://typography.net/fontfamilies/view/39\">Fenland</a>
    the flair of a flat, grassy landscape, other than the reference in its name and
    the <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/eyemagazine/7008972239/in/photostream/\">intentional
    art direction</a> by its designer, Jeremy Tankard?\r\n\r\nNick Shinn declares
    my attempt a <em>generic neo-grotesque</em> and he evaluates the market as a niche.
    I guess that makes sans serif highlights of recent years, like Dalton Maag\u2019s
    <a href=\"http://www.daltonmaag.com/buyonline/fonts/aktivgrotesk\">Aktiv Grotesk</a>,
    PS Type\u2019s <a href=\"http://cargocollective.com/pstype/Runda\">Runda</a>,
    Christian Schwartz\u2019s <a href=\"http://commercialtype.com/typefaces/atlas/grotesk\">Atlas
    Grotesk</a> and <a href=\"http://commercialtype.com/typefaces/graphik\">Graphik</a>,
    Eric Olson\u2019s <a href=\"http://typographica.org/typeface-reviews/colfax/\">Colfax</a>,
    Laurenz Brunner\u2019s <a href=\"http://lineto.com/The+Fonts/Font+Categories/Text+Fonts/Akkurat/\">Akkurat</a>
    and <a href=\"http://lineto.com/The+Fonts/Font+Categories/Text+Fonts/Circular/\r\n\">Circular</a>,
    Timo Gaessner\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.milieugrotesque.com/typeface-maisonneue\">Maison
    Neue</a>, Margaret Calvert\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.newrailalphabet.co.uk/\">New
    Rail Alphabet</a>, Playtype\u2019s <a href=\"https://www.playtype.com/font/grot10\">Grot10</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.virusfonts.com/\">Virus Fonts\u2019</a> upcoming release
    <a href=\"http://virusfonts.com/news/2013/01/david-bowie-the-next-day-that-album-cover-design/\">Doctrine</a>,
    used on the new David Bowie album <em>The Next Day</em>, all together <em>generic</em>
    niche products.\r\n\r\nMaybe so. But they seem to have found an active interest
    and acceptance, resonating in current poster- and book designs for art museums,
    design magazines and photo books. It seems to me that there is a bunch of designers
    who like attributes of the tone of voice of a Helvetica Neue, but they don\u2019t
    necessarily want to wear the same old shoes.\r\n\r\nIf typefaces were only designed
    to follow a trend and become instant hits, we would have the Lady Gagas among
    them triumph over the ones with a subtler tone of voice. If we called every interpretation
    of a standard <em>unoriginal</em>, we would lose joy in playing jazz.\r\n\r\nHikari\u2019s
    design reminded me of wooden framed paper walls, green tea and futon beds. Through
    its proportions and expression it resembles to me a distinct purity and elegance
    I see in one of the many faces of Japanese culture, a culture that sees Latin
    types with different eyes.\r\n\r\nI didn\u2019t intend to reinvent the sans serif,
    grotesque or gothic font genres or classification. My goal was much simpler: to
    evoke a similar sensual experience, inspiring designers to use a new tone of voice,
    to see my font become alive in their works, their designs of identities, websites,
    magazines, posters and books.\r\n\r\nThat, and I didn\u2019t like to wear the
    same old shoes.\r\n\r\nLink reference list:\r\nhttp://www.daltonmaag.com/buyonline/fonts/aktivgrotesk\r\nhttp://cargocollective.com/pstype/Runda\r\nhttp://commercialtype.com/typefaces/atlas/grotesk\r\nhttp://commercialtype.com/typefaces/graphik\r\nhttp://typographica.org/typeface-reviews/colfax/\r\nhttp://lineto.com/The+Fonts/Font+Categories/Text+Fonts/Akkurat/\r\nhttp://lineto.com/The+Fonts/Font+Categories/Text+Fonts/Circular/\r\nhttp://www.milieugrotesque.com/typeface-maisonneue\r\nhttp://www.newrailalphabet.co.uk/\r\nhttps://www.playtype.com/font/grot10\r\nhttp://virusfonts.com/news/2013/01/david-bowie-the-next-day-that-album-cover-design/"
  created: '2013-04-20 14:06:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "More fundamental then stroke endings is stroke shape, and the near straightness
    of the vertical stems in Colfax is far from grotesque, more like Albert Jan\u2019s
    DIN.\r\n\r\nAlso note the thoroughly \u201Cgeometric\u201D \uFB01gures.\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-20 19:15:09'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "I see your point, but actually there are condensed grotesque typefaces (especially
    the bold cuts) that do have very straight lines. Take Impact, or Berthold Akzidenz
    Grotesk Condensed. Colfax is not a condensed version of a typeface, but it uses
    this pattern throughout the whole family. I agree, it is quite close to DIN, even
    more the original version, rather than the softer family from FontFont.\r\n\r\nI
    am not saying it should not be classified as geometric. I am saying it is leaning
    towards a grotesque."
  created: '2013-04-21 00:44:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "True about the condensed grots.\r\nInterestingly, the more recent versions
    of Univers (or was it Helvetica, or both?) Condensed have dropped the straight
    edges of the round letters and gone to curves. \r\nOf course I prefer the original. "
  created: '2013-04-21 01:42:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Why do you prefer the original?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-21 01:46:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In general I tend to prefer originals; authenticity seems to work for me,
    for whatever reason.\r\n\r\nIn this case, I was thinking of Helvetica Bold Condensed\u2014here
    are samples of the older style (above), and the Neue (below). I \uFB01nd that
    the original creates a far crisper text block, with more clearly de\uFB01ned white
    space between the letters, whereas the Neue goes a bit fuzzy and lumpy there:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Helv_Cond_3539.png]"
  created: '2013-04-21 05:19:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think back when people didn't have a lot of fonts it made sense for different
    weights/styles to do a different job properly versus look like they all belong
    together*. But these days when somebody wants a narrow font that's squarish (because,
    as you imply, that looks better) he chooses the narrow style of a typeface that's
    squarish all around; he doesn't expect to get that from the narrow style of a
    roundish font - because frankly that doesn't make sense. So I think in older versions
    of Helvetica it was good design to have the narrow styles break with the \"expected
    look\" of the typeface, but these days that's a lousy design solution.\r\n\r\n*
    Like how <em>even within one font</em> caps could have a different job to do,
    hence a different look - see my last point here: http://typophile.com/node/102373#comment-551407\r\n\r\nAs
    for authenticity, I have to wonder: what proportion of users today expect the
    different weights of Helvetica to look like they used to look for the previous
    generation, versus following the expected look of Helvetica as a whole?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-21 06:03:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Authenticity applies to different faces in different ways.\r\nCertainly there
    is some interest today in a facsimile Helvetica revival\u2014witness Neue Haas
    Grotesk with its size-speci\uFB01c variants."
  created: '2013-04-21 07:25:51'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "For updates and progress, check out my product page for Hikari:\r\nhttp://corebasis.com/work/hikari"
  created: '2013-05-14 18:28:58'
date: '2013-04-11 15:34:29'
title: Announcing Hikari

---
