---
author:
  name: ycherem
body: "I'd like to know if there is any list of fonts that contain the \xAA \xBA underlined,
  as used in some languages (Italian, Spanish, Portuguese) to indicate ordinal numbers
  (such as in \"1\xAA, 2\xBA\" etc).\r\n\r\nThere are way too many fonts that do not
  have those underlined superscript symbols, so I'd also like to know what is the
  recommended typographical practice in such cases. It seems that the practice of
  underlining such superscripts is slowly disappearing, but mainly because so many
  fonts don't have them.\r\n\r\nI have been able to identify some fonts that have
  the characters -- Cambria, Calibri, Profile, Constantia, EB Garamond, High Tower
  Text, Palatino Linotype."
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: I wonder, is this the underline required for Spanish/Portuguese/Italian?
  created: '2013-04-14 09:58:20'
- author:
    name: ycherem
  body: "For Portuguese, it is. It has been this way since typewriters, it is the
    way people learn at school, and keyboards show underlined \xAA \xBA (accessed
    with alt-gr).\r\n\r\nOf course I can underline any font and then change it to
    superscript, but sometimes it seems too much of a hassle, especially because it's
    so frequently used."
  created: '2013-04-14 11:08:45'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "There are several in Font Bureau\u2019s library:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Miller/charset/\">Miller</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/PoynterOSText/charset/\">Poynter Oldstyle
    Text</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/BentonModernDisplay/charset/\">Benton
    Modern Display</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/ZocaloText/charset/\">Z\xF3calo
    Text</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Quiosco/charset/\">Quiosco</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Turnip/charset/\">Turnip</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Bullen/charset/\">Bullen</a>\r\n\r\nThere
    are probably others; I didn\u2019t search them all."
  created: '2013-04-14 12:59:40'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Youssef, I don't think that underlined \xAA\xBA are actually required in
    Portuguese. It appears to be a typographical tradition widely adopted in Brazil
    and Portugual \u2013like the double bar in $\u2013 but not a mandatory rule. You
    can note that Publico, a font developed specially to a newspaper from Portugal,
    does not include underlined \xAA\xBA. Dino dos Santos, a Portuguese type designer,
    also does not include them in most of his works. Anyway, I prefer to have underlined
    \xAA\xBA,  maybe because I saw this since my childhood.\r\n\r\nHere are some other
    fonts which include underlined \xAA\xBA:\r\nAdobe Gothic\r\nArgo\r\nCourier\r\nDocumenta\r\nDolly\r\nFedra\r\nGingko\r\nGirando
    Pro\r\nGlosa\r\nGreta\r\nLetter Gothic\r\nLexia\r\nLisboa\r\nMenlo\r\nMuseo\r\nOlsen\r\nPoynter\r\nSatero
    Pro\r\nSecca\r\nSkolar\r\nTisa\r\nTisa Sans\r\nWhitney\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-15 01:49:15'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Good point. The solution I included on my project is to have underlined \xAA\xBA
    as alternates. When the language is Spanish or Portuguese, an OT command trigger
    the alternates automatically. I also included ordinal plurals 'as' and 'os', which
    do not exist in Unicode but are also needed.\r\n\r\nA small note: in OT and Unicode
    we have room to differentiate \xAA\xBA as ordinals and \u2018aeilmnorst\u2019
    as superscript and scientific superiors. In a proper OT enviroment, we could use
    one or another, without mixing. Unhappily, proper OT and Unicode applications
    are still barely available and type designers need to work around this."
  created: '2013-04-15 11:18:13'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "A couple years ago, I was contacted by the art director of <cite>O Globo</cite>
    in Rio de Janeiro to customize the ordinals in several styles of Whitman for the
    newpaper\u2019s use. He explained: \u201CTo write correctly the ordinals in Portuguese
    they must have an hyphen behind the &lt;o&gt; and &lt;a&gt;\u201D [by which he
    meant an underline beneath]. Their style guide, at the very least, demands these
    forms.\r\n\r\nIt seems reasonable to me to have underlined ordinals as alternates
    to be deployed through language localization. \r\n\r\nIt also seems reasonable
    instead to have default underlined forms of \xAA and \xBA for the glyphs which
    are thus encoded (i.e., when input directly into the text stream as U+00AA and
    U+00BA), and to have separate \u201Cplain,\u201D raised forms of <em>a</em> and
    <em>o</em> to combine with <em>e i l m n r s t</em> and to be deployed through
    the {ordn} feature."
  created: '2013-04-15 13:05:34'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "When it comes to typography, I wouldn\u2019t listen that long to what teachers
    in primary schools say. In primary school, I was taught to underline anything
    important. It was not before the age of 12 that I heard about the meaning of \u2018italics\u2019
    from my English teacher. She told me that \u2018italics\u2019 had nothing to do
    with Italy though, it was merely \u2018printed another way\u2019. When we made
    a mistake in handwritten texts we were told not to strike through, but to put
    the mistakes \u2018between dots\u2019. Unnecessary to say that the teachers frequently
    overlooked our corrections \u2026 Also I was taught that words are only words
    when all letters are being connected. At school I learned to \u201Equote\u201D
    like this. My typography teacher at the Academy of Arts told me that the publishers
    he worked for insisted on the \u2018english\u2019 way, and so did he. Another
    Dutch publishing house prefers \xABFrench\xBB quotes though (but in the German
    way, i.e. without the word spaces). Typewriters are a questionable source too,
    I think. My parent\u2019s typewriter had an italic beta instead of an \xDF. A
    typewritten ellipsis was three characters wide. All of this may be very interesting,
    but when it comes to design, it is the designer that has to make up his mind on
    wether that what the laymen advocates is really worth considering. Sometimes a
    cigar is just a cigar.\r\n\r\nOne disadvantage of underlining \xAA and \xBA in
    a typeface is that they can only combined with the rest of the superior letters
    \u2018aeilmnorst\u2019 when these are being underlined too. These may be used
    in countries such as France, Great Britain, Belgium and the Netherlands. Just
    to name a few. Many typographers and graphic designers from these countries might
    like that (in display typography), because the underscore might provide an additional
    interesting element, but on the other hand (in documents), many of them will not
    like to see them underlined because they perceive the underscore as visual pollution
    or as an archaic element. To me it is a matter of design, legibility, you name
    it, even of taste if you prefer, but not of \u2018laymen\u2019s law\u2019"
  created: '2013-04-15 13:37:36'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Kent, apparently that is for Portuguese as used in Brazil. See Miguel Sousa's
    \ comment here:\r\n\r\nhttp://forums.adobe.com/thread/565418\r\n\r\nAlternates,
    as you & Miguel propose, would be fine, but I get the sense that designers are
    overburdened? Personally, if it comes to choices, I'd prefer the combining diacriticals
    to be included in fonts. That lets the users of type come up with solutions &
    still stay syntactically correct."
  created: '2013-04-15 13:44:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>When it comes to typography, I wouldn\u2019t listen that long
    to what teachers in primary schools say.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nEspecially all that
    stuff about handwriting.  :->\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Another Dutch publishing house
    prefers \xABFrench\xBB quotes though (but in the German way, i.e. without the
    word spaces).</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTo me that's ideal in English too. Especially
    when they're what I call \"quotemets\":\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/IN1901_53_6327.gif\r\n(From:
    http://typophile.com/node/20061#comment-124405)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-15 16:40:54'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: '[duplicate]'
  created: '2013-04-15 16:59:23'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Both Portuguese and Spanish had a handwritten tradition to use underlined
    ordinals. Through 20th Century, it seems Portugal slowly put this aside (maybe
    due to new technologies and European typographical inffluence) while in Brazil
    the underline still remained usual (maybe due to the delay in adopt new technologies
    and the lack of further typographical inffluences).\r\n\r\nThere is also two another
    variations in Brazilian Portuguese: (1) to use a dot under the ordinal. In this
    case, the dot is aligned with the baseline while the numeral is kept raised. And,
    less common, (2) to have underlined ordinal with a dot at the baseline. As computers
    did not offer an easy way to set ordinals in these traditional forms, the \"nude\"
    \xAA\xBA became common and acceptable. But it is always nice to find fonts and
    publishers taking care of underlined ordinals.\r\n\r\nIn other hand, type designers
    interested in address these local issues (and who do not feel overburdened) could
    consider the problem regarding plurals. There is no easy way to write <strong>as</strong>
    and <strong>os</strong> as ordinals, and they are quite common in Portuguese.
    One need to know about OT superiors, have a font with them and use an appplication
    with this feature. It would be very good to have fonts with an OT substitution
    command to change \xAAs and \xBAs to superiors when using Portuguese.\r\n\r\nNot
    sure about how modern Spanish or Italian use this."
  created: '2013-04-15 17:00:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I usually underline the ordinal a and o on the grounds that superior a and
    o can be used instead if someone doesn't want the underline. That does mean variant
    encodings can result, but that's already the case. There are three different potential
    ways to encode numeral+ordinal sequences, and all of these are found in text,
    as Google searches in Portuguese attest:\r\n\r\n2a 8o (simple letter, with or
    without superscript styling)\r\n2\xAA 8\xBA (ordinal characters)\r\n2\u1D43 8\u1D52
    (modifier superior characters)"
  created: '2013-04-15 19:01:56'
- author:
    name: ycherem
  body: "I agree with charles ellertson's affirmation that it would be easier if the
    designers included those characters with the fonts. \r\n\r\nAs to Albert Jan Pool's
    affirmation, I get the point, but there are limits. German typewriters had an
    \xDF available for them. Every language or country has its idiosyncrasies. Whether
    it's a question of \"taste\", \"design\", you name it, I am of the opinion that
    neither \"design\" or readability (or legibility, I don't care about Anglo-Saxon
    preciosity carried too far away) apply here. It's just a matter of choice or \"norms\".\r\n\r\nIf
    Spanish and Portuguese have a handwritten tradition of writing underlined ordinals,
    for me it would be logical that some culture-sensitive designer would just come
    up with a underlined as and os (with plurals), even if as an alternate set.\r\n\r\nEven
    if it's not actually required, it does look better -- and surprisingly I'm seeing
    more and more of it now that Calibri and Cambria are default in MS Word...\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-16 02:01:20'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: On MyFonts, the advanced search is quite good at finding this sort of thing.
    Try <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/search/char%3A%C2%AA/fonts/">searching for
    fonts that have the ordinal signs</a>.
  created: '2013-04-16 09:55:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I must confess I haven\u2019t followed a consistent policy on this.\r\nHowever,
    I have underlined the \xAA and \xBA ordinals in Figgins, Parity, Pratt, Richler,
    Scotch Modern and Softmachine."
  created: '2013-04-16 22:32:45'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "What in fact is the significance of the underline/hyphen? Is it just to differentiate
    from, say, a degree sign?\r\n\r\nAnd: should the numero sign \u2116 be consistent
    with the ordinals in its underline?"
  created: '2013-04-16 22:51:07'
- author:
    name: ycherem
  body: "As with many traditions, I'm afraid the underline bears no clear \"significance\".
    It does aid in differentiation in handwriting, and perhaps in typography.\r\nAnother
    curious case is the slashed 7 in handwriting -- presumably to differ from 1."
  created: '2013-04-17 00:24:26'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Abbreviations were always very common in Latin and a small horizontal stroke
    was used as an abbreviation mark in several situations. Initially, it was used
    to shorten \"que\" (that), which was wrote just as q, and to cut the suffixes
    -um and -am. Latter, it also marked vowel nasalization and originated the tilde.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    this horizontal stroke was also used to clearly mark \xAA and \xBA as abbreviations.
    This is just a speculation, I have no concrete data about it. Anyway, Italian,
    Spanish and Portuguese are the Latin-derivated languages with more resemblance
    to late Latin (while French, Romanian, Catalan and Proven\xE7al have a more distinct
    structure). Thus this idea makes some sense.\r\n\r\nI tend to design \u2116 using
    the same criteria used to \xAA and \xBA. But it seems the \u2116 used in Cyrillic
    is a bit different, with the stroke at the baseline (further info is very welcome
    on this)."
  created: '2013-04-17 01:22:24'
- author:
    name: marcdan
  body: "Well, here in Portugal the abbreviations should always have a dot in front
    of the ordinal: 1.\xBA; n.\xBA; Prof.\xAA. However, 90 % of the Portuguese don't
    know this; even newspapers use Prof\xAA, or even Prof\xAA., with the dot behind,
    which is totally wrong. However, underlining them is not necessary, as established
    in the orthographic reform 1940 (http://www.ciberduvidas.pt/perguntas/get/345441).
    The Portuguese language does not only contain \xBA and \xAA, but also other letters:
    (I will use modifier superior characters): L.\u1D48\u1D43; S.\u1D57\u1D52; Ex.\u1D43\u02E2,
    etc. But these abbreviations are slowly disappearing, as all can be written in
    normal characters, and is still grammatically correct: Lda., Sto., Exmas. (note
    that the dot is indispensable). In fact, there\u2019s no limit to the words which
    can be shortened like this; the rule is simply to write the beginning, put a dot,
    and write the end in superscript: Portugal: Port.\u1D43\u1DAB (used on maps).
    Personally, I prefer using ordinals, and, if possible, underlined. But sometimes
    it does get a bit weird, like in the short form of sexta-feira (imagine a line
    under the superscript): 6.\xAA-feira. It looks very strange, especially if the
    underscore is on the same hight as the hyphen..."
  created: '2013-05-18 19:59:43'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<blockquote>But it seems the \u2116 used in Cyrillic is a bit different,
    with the stroke at the baseline (further info is very welcome on this).</blockquote>[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Numero_Signs_5677.gif]"
  created: '2013-05-19 02:09:58'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "> <em>But it seems the \u2116 used in Cyrillic is a bit different, with the
    stroke at the baseline (further info is very welcome on this).</em>\r\n\r\nI think
    one should not forget that (IIRC) the overwhelming majority of \u2116 in Russian
    was in documents produced on typewritters.  So it is the typewriter fonts which
    one should examine.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, when I had access to Russian typewriters,
    I would not have realized that different manufacturers may have used different
    fonts on them\u200A\u2014\u200Afor me all the typed documents looked the same.
    \ And I have no clue how to find examples, e.g., Optima- or Erika-fonts nowadays.
    \ (And [without consulting Wikipedia] I do not recollect any brand-name of Soviet
    typewriters\u200A\u2014\u200Ait could not have been that every one was German/\u010Cech/etc\u2026)\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    all I remember is the \u2116s with the tops of N and \xBA aligned.\r\n\r\n<Strong>Update:</strong>
    http://katyn.ru/forums/viewtopic.php?id=422 discusses some changes in typewriter's
    fonts in 30s\u201340s.  I did not inspect the originals they discuss\u2026\r\n\r\nThis
    [[http://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/%D0%A4%D0%B0%D0%B9%D0%BB:%D0%9C%D0%B0%D1%88%D0%B8%D0%BD%D0%BA%D0%B0_%D0%9B%D1%8E%D0%B1%D0%B0%D0%B2%D0%B0_%D0%9F%D0%9F-305-01_%D0%BA%D0%BB%D0%B0%D0%B2%D0%B8%D0%B0%D1%82%D1%83%D1%80%D0%B0_%D1%81_%D0%BC%D0%B5%D1%82%D0%BA%D0%B0%D0%BC%D0%B8.JPG|Wikipedia
    image of a clone of Erika]] shows the keycap with \u2116 which matches what I
    discussed above.  But the actually produced symbol might have been different\u2026\r\n\r\n<Strong>Update\xB2:</strong>
    [[http://katynfiles.com/content/romanov-rp-1.html|these photocopies of 30s 40s]]
    illustrate a style of typewriter's \u2116 I mentioned above; but they also have
    the type with \u201C_ aligned at bottom\u201D on most (all?) of the letterheads,
    and one of the used typewriters also uses this style!"
  created: '2013-05-19 05:23:43'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: 'There is a font based on an East German Erika here: [[http://www.peter-wiegel.de/Fonts/index.html]]'
  created: '2013-05-19 13:53:51'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<blockquote>I do not recollect any brand-name of Soviet typewriters</blockquote>One
    popular make was <a href=\"http://62.img.avito.st/640x480/343858362.jpg\">Jatran</a>
    (pronounced <em>Yatran\u2019</em>&#x200A;). Actually, there is a <a href=\"http://paratype.com/pstore/fonts/Jatran.htm\">typeface</a>
    named after that model:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1995_Jatran_5284.gif]"
  created: '2013-05-19 16:37:42'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "> <em>There is a font based on an East German Erika here:</em>\u2026\r\n\r\nActually,
    IIRC, all Erika\u2396s I saw in Russia were with Cyrillic fonts.  In my office,
    there was a Latin Optima, and a couple of Cyrillic ones."
  created: '2013-05-19 23:05:04'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "[[http://www.typewriters.ch/schreibmaschinen_tastaturen.html]]\r\nA booklet
    from Seidel&Naumann in Dresden showing the various keyboards available on the
    Erika line in 1930."
  created: '2013-05-20 00:28:24'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "> <em>various keyboards available on the Erika line in 1930</em>\r\n\r\nWhile
    I\u2019m definitely [[http://k.ilyaz.org/iz/windows|interested in keyboard layouts]],
    these are images of more-or-less-keycaps, not the fonts\u2026"
  created: '2013-05-20 06:16:34'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: There does not seem to be any one site with typewriting samples, not even
    the collector sites. Those that call themselves 'anabloggers and typecasters'
    seem to be the best sources. Of course your google-fu may be stronger than mine.
  created: '2013-05-21 22:58:53'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "After quadibloc\u2396s [[http://typophile.com/node/103138#comment-554732|post]]
    I found [[http://munk.org/typecast/2011/04/25/1964-nomda-blue-book-ibm-font-styles/|the
    IBM\u2019s samples of \u201964]].  That\u2019s all\u2026"
  created: '2013-05-22 00:39:38'
date: '2013-04-13 23:01:43'
title: "fonts with underline ordinal indicators - \xAA \xBA"

---
