---
author:
  name: Chris Dean
  picture: 111971
body: "A little something I wrote and posted for a colleague. I can\u2019t seem to
  open comments on my website and prevent span the way Jared does, so I thought I\u2019d
  share it here as well. If you have any additional references, feel free to add to
  the list.\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nMost likely in response to yet
  another client insisting on riddling their pages with holes created by double spaces
  after their periods, a colleague asked me for advice. In an effort to provide her
  with some ammunition to help bring down offending parties, I composed for her the
  following:\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Question</strong>:\r\n\u201C<em>Is there some definitive
  statement that I can quote these days about NOT putting two spaces after each period
  in a paragraph? At first I thought it was just those who grew up with typewriters
  without proportional lettering that had merely developed a habit, but I see it in
  some things and I would just like to know if there is any basis for routinely hitting
  the spacebar twice anymore?</em>\u201D\r\n\r\n<strong>Response(s)</strong>:\r\n\u201CAfter
  the period at the end of a sentence or abbreviation, the space should be the normal
  one used between the words of the line. Only in widely spaced lines is it permitted
  to leave a larger gap, and in this case, commas and hyphens should be treated the
  same way (Tschishold, 1937, pp 95\u201396).\u201D\r\n\r\n<em>and\u2026</em>\r\n\r\n\u201CIn
  the nineteenth century, which was a dark and inflationary age in typography and
  type design, many compositors were encouraged to stuff extra space between sentences.
  Generations of twentieth-century typists were then taught to do the same, by hitting
  the spacebar twice after every period. Your typing as well an your typesetting will
  benefit from unlearning this quaint Victorian habit. As a general rule, no more
  than a single space is required after a period, a colon or any other punctuation.
  Larger spaces (e.g., en spaces) are themselves punctuation (Bringhurst, 2004, pp
  29\u201330).\u201D\r\n\r\n<em>and\u2026</em>\r\n\r\n\u201CWords should also be kept
  at a safe, regular distance from eachother, so that you can rely on the next one
  to appear when you\u2019re ready for it (Spiekermann, 1993, p. 123).\u201D\r\n\r\n<em>and\u2026</em>\r\n\r\n\u201COne
  rule to remember about line space is that it needs to be larger than the space between
  words, otherwise your eye would be inclined to travel from the word on the first
  line directly to the word on the line belowWhen the space is correct your eye will
  first make the journey along one line before it continues on to the next (Spiekermann,
  1993, p. 125),\u201D\r\n\r\n<em>and\u2026</em>\r\n\r\n\u201CThe perceptive senses
  take in shapes which are related together by proximity and contour. We are taught
  to read our code system horizontally from left to right and it is primarily this
  \u2018conditioning\u2019 that enables the eye to follow badly spaced copy where
  the interlinear space appears less than that between words. The horizontal left
  to right movement can clearly be differentiated from the vertical downward movement
  by keeping the word space to a minimum (Swann, 1969, p. 41).\u201D\r\n\r\n<em>and\u2026</em>\r\n\r\n\u201CThe
  opening out of lines to create a clear difference between the interlinear gap and
  the word-spacing is common practice when ease of reading is requited. In this way,
  the danger of optical bridging between lines is reduced (Hartley, 1978, p. 22).\u201D\r\n\r\n<em>and\u2026</em>\r\n\r\n\u201CThe
  typewriter tradition of separating sentences with two word spaces after a period
  has no place in typesetting. The custom began with the characters of monospaced
  typefaces used on typewriters were so wide and so open that a single word space\u2014one
  the same width as a character, including the period\u2014was not wide enough to
  create a sufficient space between the sentences. Proportionately spaced fonts, though,
  contain word spaces specifically designed to play the sentence-separating role perfectly.
  Because of this, a double word space at the end of creates an obvious hole in the
  line (Felici, 2003, p. 80).\u201D\r\n\r\n<em>and finally\u2026</em>\r\n\r\n\u201CWhat?
  you say! Yes\u2014for years you\u2019ve been told to hit two spaces after periods,
  and on a typewriter, you should. But this is not a typewriter.\r\n\r\nOn a typewriter,
  all the characters are monospaced; that is, they each take up the same amount of
  space\u2014the letter [i] takes up as much space as the letter [m]. Because they
  are monospaced, you need to type two spaces after periods to separate one sentence
  from the next. But\u2026\r\n\r\nOn a Macintosh, (unless you\u201Dre using the fonts
  Monaco or Courier, which are monospaced just like a typewriter and what you would
  want to use anyway) the characters are proportional; that is, they each take up
  a proportional amount of space\u2014the letter [i] takes up about one fifth the
  space as the letter [m]. So you no longer need extra spaces to separate the sentences
  (Williams, 1990, p. 13),\u201D\r\n\r\n<strong>Final answer</strong>:\r\nUnless you
  are using a monospaced typeface such as Courier, do <em><strong>not</strong></em>
  use two spaces after a period! If the that\u2019s is not enough to muscle a client
  into submission, lay down your arms and surrender. That, or you could <a href=\"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Flt9K8vlJGE\">call
  in the big guns</a>. At the end of the day, sh*tty type costs them the same as good
  type.\r\n\r\n<strong>References</strong>:\r\nBringhurst, R. (2004). <em>The elements
  of typographic style</em>. Hartley & Marks Publishers Inc, Washington, United States.\r\n\r\nFelici,
  J. (2003). <em>The complete manual of typography</em>. Peachpit Press, California,
  United States.\r\n\r\nHartley, J. (1994). <em>Designing instructional text</em>.
  Kogan Page, London, England.\r\n\r\nSpiekermann, E. & Ginger, E. (1993). <em>Stop
  stealing sheep and find out how type works</em>. Adobe Press, California, United
  States.\r\n\r\nSwann, C. (1969). <em>Techniques of typography</em>. Watson-Guptill
  Publications, New York, United States.\r\n\r\nTschichold, J. (1937). House rules
  for typesetting: the Publisher\u2019s standard instructions for the typesetter (as
  cited by Tschichold, J. 1975/1991). <em>The form of the book. Essays on the morality
  of good design</em>. Hartley & Marks Publishers Inc. Washington, United States.\r\n\r\nWilliams,
  R. (1990). <em>The Mac is not a typewriter</em>. Peachpit Press, California, United
  States.\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nOriginally posted at http://readthetype.com/twospace/
  (2013)."
comments:
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Donald Knuth's TeX considers the space after a period more \"stretchable\"
    than regular inter-word spaces, something like by a third more or so. I used to
    have a copy of \"The TeXbook\" (Reading, Massachusetts: Addison-Wesley, 1984)
    on my desk for years on end but now I appear to have misplaced it! Will go a-browsing,
    given time, so I can look up the exact quote.\r\n\r\nSince it's an automatism
    of TeX, the writer has to apply tricks to <em>defeat</em> this behaviour whenever
    unwanted; i.e. when dealing with abbrev. and initials. Typing two spaces is neither
    en- nor dis-couraged when using TeX. No matter what your personal preference is,
    it simply discards extra spaces in the input."
  created: '2013-04-18 22:52:35'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "In TeX, <code>space-factor</code> is governed by <code>\\sfcode</code> tables.
    \ (Chapter 12 of TeXBook.)  The code of a character sets the target value for
    the current <code>space-factor</code> (with a few ramifications on how the target
    is translated to an actual value).  The current <code>space-factor</code> can
    also be set by <code>\\spacefactor=NUM</code>.\r\n\r\nIn Plain TeX, <code>\\sfcode`.=3000</code>,
    so the extendability of space is tripled after a dot, the shrinkability is decreased
    3\xD7, and \u201Can extra space\u201D is inserted (since <code>space-factor\u22652000</code>).
    \ (In <code>cmr10</code> the normal space is 3\u2153pt, and the extra space is
    1\u2151pt.)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBTW, IMO, the quoted by Chris rules on the width of
    spaces make absolutely no sense.  Unless they are designed for reading texts which
    you do not care about reading.  These rules make sense only if reading is a linear
    process, when it is enough to note ends-of-sentences \u201Cas they appear\u201D.
    \ Most of the time, my reading is non-linear.  I go back to find a stuff which
    I discover I missed/misunderstood \u2014 or the text I had deliberately skipped,
    and now time has come to read it.  And with non-linear reading, I must find start-re-parsing
    points quickly.\r\n\r\nMaybe it is my vision, but for me having dot+normal_space
    is not enough help to quickly identify beginnings of sentences.  With text typeset
    with (La)TeX, reading is <em>significantly</em> easier."
  created: '2013-04-19 00:44:27'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ilyaz: Not sure I follow. Perhaps you can help clarify. Theunis de Jong
    writes \u201C<em>No matter what your personal preference is, it simply discards
    extra spaces in the input</em>.\u201D \r\n\r\nI interpret this as TeX removing
    double spaces by default.\r\n\r\nYou then write \u201C<em>With text typeset with
    (La)TeX, reading is significantly easier.</em>\u201D \r\n\r\nI interpret this
    as (La)TeX using a double space (or more than a single space) after a period by
    default.\r\n\r\nBefore we continue, are you using the terms (La)TeX and TeX interchangeably?
    \r\n\r\nRegarding your previous statement, do you in fact mean \u201C<em>I find
    locating the beginning of a sentence</em> significantly <em>easier when there
    are two spaces following a period compared to one</em>.\u201D ?\r\n\r\nI was also
    reading a bit about your background. Do you still teach mathematics, and are you
    still an active software programmer? I am particularly interested in your frequency
    of exposure to coding and programming, which to the best of my knowledge, is done
    on terminals using monospaced fonts. <em><strong>If</strong></em> you spend significantly
    more time coding than the lay-person (or lay-programmer for that matter), <em><strong>and</strong></em>
    you work with monospaced fonts, <em><strong>perhaps</strong></em> this supports
    your preference for double spaces?"
  created: '2013-04-19 01:19:00'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "TeX and LaTeX base the extra space to be put after the period on the parameter
    \\fontdimen7 which is in the font. This behaviour is disabled after the command
    <code>\\frenchspacing</code>. For instance, I installed Arno Pro to use with LaTeX
    and here is what is to be found in the tfm file of the regular:\r\n<pre>\r\n(FAMILY
    TEX-ARNOPRO-REGULAR)\r\n[...]\r\n(FONTDIMEN\r\n   (SLANT R 0.0)\r\n   (SPACE R
    0.19)\r\n   (STRETCH R 0.095)\r\n   (SHRINK R 0.0633335)\r\n   (XHEIGHT R 0.398)\r\n
    \  (QUAD R 1.0)\r\n   (EXTRASPACE R 0.031667)\r\n   )\r\n</pre>\r\nNow here is
    a LaTeX input file, to test\r\n<pre>\r\n\\documentclass[10pt]{article}\r\n\\usepackage{arno}\r\n\\setlength\\parindent{0pt}\r\n\\newlength{\\myl}\r\n\\newcommand\\dispwidth[1]{#1\\quad\\settowidth{\\myl}{#1}\\the\\myl}\r\n\\begin{document}\r\n\r\nspace
    = \\the\\fontdimen2\\font\\\\\r\nstretch = \\the\\fontdimen3\\font\\\\\r\nshrink
    = \\the\\fontdimen4\\font\\\\\r\nextraspace = \\the\\fontdimen7\\font\\\\\r\n\r\n\\dispwidth{A
    word. Two words. And then more just to see.}\\\\\r\n\\frenchspacing\r\n\\dispwidth{A
    word. Two words. And then more just to see.}\r\n\\end{document}\r\n</pre>\r\nAnd
    here is a grab of the output:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spacingArno10pt_4439.png]\r\nThe
    first line uses the \"English spacing\" with the extra spacing. The second line
    uses no extra spacing. The difference in length is equal to twice the displayed
    value of extraspace. I would not call that double spacing.\r\n\r\nThe stretch
    parameters are used for justification. Here, there was none."
  created: '2013-04-19 02:33:45'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@Michel Boyer: For the thread and future participants, can you clarify the
    terms TeX, and LaTeX? Wikipedia does a poor job distinguishing the two for the
    lay-person (non-coder).'
  created: '2013-04-19 02:42:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Whoops! It would appear as though I was editing a post while you were responding.
    I understand (La)Tex now, that makes good sense. However, I\u2019m still not clear
    on the relationship between TeX and LaTeX.\r\n\r\nWikipedia defines TeX as \u201C<em>\u2026a
    typesetting system designed and mostly written by Donald Knuth and released in
    1978</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nAnd LaTeX as \u201C\u2026<em>a document markup language
    and document preparation system for the TeX typesetting program</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nIf
    I were to throw out an analogy, I would say that TeX is InDesign, and LaTeX is
    a style sleet? Am I close?"
  created: '2013-04-19 02:55:00'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "My understanding is that (La)TeX was used as a regular expression to write
    both LaTeX and TeX in a single expression.\r\n\r\nLaTeX and TeX both come with
    texlive. It is possible (but not recommended) to write TeX macros in LaTeX files
    (LaTeX has its own syntax for macros)."
  created: '2013-04-19 02:55:30'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: And <a href="http://www.tug.org/texlive/">TeX Live</a> is a bundle?
  children:
  - author:
      name: Michel Boyer
      picture: 112585
    body: "Never noted that \"reply\" link....\r\n\r\nLaTeX is much more sophisticated
      that just a style sheet. As for texlive, it is many text formatting programs,
      including XeTeX, XeLaTeX, LuaTeX and LuaLaTeX.\r\n"
    created: '2013-04-19 03:12:17'
  created: '2013-04-19 02:58:30'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I don\u2019t think the \u201CReply\u201D link works.\r\n\r\nCan you perhaps
    provide an alternative analogy for the TeX/LaTeX relationship?"
  created: '2013-04-19 03:15:32'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: " On my mac, the command <code>which latex</code> gives <code>/usr/texbin/latex</code>
    as its location. If I go in the directory <code>/usr/texbin</code> and type the
    command <code>ls -l latex</code> I get as answer:\r\n<pre>\r\nlrwxr-xr-x  1 boyer
    \ wheel  6 12 Jul  2012 latex -> pdftex\r\n</pre>\r\nwhich means that latex **is**
    pdftex. It is my understanding that calling latex or pdftex loads different initialization
    files but I don't know the inner workings."
  created: '2013-04-19 03:24:50'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "*chuckle*\r\n\r\nI am clearly out of my element here. I\u2019m afraid that
    doesn\u2019t make much sense to me.\r\n\r\nCode and programming aside, do you
    know of any writings that speak to the convention of double spacing after a period?\r\n\r\nDo
    you work in mono-spaced fonts a lot and/or have a preference for single versus
    double spaced periods?\r\n\r\nPerhaps my hypothesis of \u201Cprogrammers like
    double spaced periods because their frequency of exposure to monospaced typefaces
    is significantly higher than their exposure to proportionally spaced fonts, <em>and</em>
    the layperson\u2019s exposure to monospaced fonts\u201D might have something to
    it."
  created: '2013-04-19 03:32:00'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I don't put two spaces after periods in my LaTeX input files.\r\n\r\nAs for
    spacing in the outputs, I sometimes find that that LaTeX shrinks spaces too much
    when justifying but I never took the time to adjust the parameters. I just manually
    add space when I feel it is needed (using backslash commands or \\kern if necessary).\r\n\r\nConcerning
    documentation, I never took the time to look at the references in the wiki articles
    on the subject\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentence_spacing\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sentence_spacing_studies\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2013-04-19 03:54:16'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "Dean \u2014\r\n\r\nI don't know much about TeX, but it sounds like you might
    be closer with something like:\r\nTeX is InDesign and LaTeX is IDML (InDesign
    Markup Language)?\r\nI.e., the latter is the language that the former speaks.\r\n\r\n(http://www.adobe.com/content/dam/Adobe/en/devnet/indesign/cs5_docs/idml/idml-cookbook.pdf)"
  created: '2013-04-19 05:06:35'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "Chris, sorry that I was so terse \u2014 I thought most people here have at
    least some cursory knowledge about TeX/LaTeX.   There are many issues relating
    to my answer.  Sorry if this post just adds confusion instead of decreasing this.\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>
    What I was discussing was reading <em>printed</em> text designed by humans for
    human consumption.  [And: I do teach and do develop software \u2014 but these
    are not related to what I was discussing.]  So what I said has no relationship
    to monospaced fonts (though in many situation I consider them superior to proportional
    ones, so would use lynx instead of firefox).\r\n<li> By default, <strong>on input</strong>,
    TeX (and LaTeX) treat multiple whitespace characters the same as one. (Do not
    remember the command which disables this; usually people use <code>\\verbatim</code>
    which does a lot of actions simultaneously).  So what I said did not concern what
    happens with the input: i.e., typing two spaces to achieve certain goals.\r\n<li>
    By default, TeX (and LaTeX) <strong>typeset</strong> whitespace differently after
    certain punctuation marks (depending how how the font sets certain dimensions,
    and depending how the current table of character properties is set).  I explained
    the particular details of the algorithm.  The default boils down to widening the
    interword gap after period, exlamation mark, semicolon etc (in different degrees
    for each of them), and manages to remember \u201Cthe intent to widen\u201D over
    some intertwining characters (so that PERIOD SPACE looks similar to PERIOD CLOSEPAREN
    SPACE).\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nSo what I was discussing was: text typeset to pretty high
    quality (as (La)TeX does), but not designed to read-and-forget mode of consumption.
    \ (Not necessarily a technical discourse: for \u201Cfiction\u201D books I read,
    I find the amount of context given by 7in e-books to be suitable only for the
    most trashy subjects \u2014 and yes, I do read a lot of this!  And given my need
    of context, I deduce the degree of non-linearity of my reading must be significant.) "
  created: '2013-04-19 07:42:06'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "About TeX vs LaTeX.  There is a lot of confusion here, especially since Knuth
    himself did not invent a proper naming system.\r\n\r\nThere is so called \u201CTeX\u2019
    guts\u201D, which is a typesetting engine modelled on rectangular (possibly with
    a slop, if one takes <em>italic correction</em> into account) boxes.  The flow
    of characters-to-typeset and \u201Ccommands\u201D fed into the guts is converted
    to a sequence of boxes which are accumulated into other boxes, are split as needed
    (both via both hyphenation and justification), and eventually fill the vertical
    stack(s) of typeset lines.\r\n\r\nTime to time the \u201Coutput routine\u201D
    inspects the formed stacks, and when it decides that there is enough of them to
    fill a page (e.g., an an end-the-page command arrives ;-), it rearranges them
    again, ships out the page, and keeps the stuff which did not fit in the boxes;
    then the accumulation of input happens again.\r\n\r\nIn XX century, shipping out
    was happening in an internal TeX format, DVI.  Nowadays, PDF is used much more
    often.  Why many stacks?  There is the main text, footnotes, margin notes etc.
    \ AFAIK, the TeX guts is a very capable typesetting engine (at least or English);
    AFAIK, it remains the best  even now, 30 years after it was written.  (But since
    what Knuth learned was the English-specific typography, it may be weakier for
    other languages.) The math typesetting subsystem is, IMO, quite weak \u2014 but
    still it is (again, hearsay) many heads above any competition.\r\n\r\nWhere the
    input to the guts comes from?  Here comes the major defect of TeX: the engine
    is fed by a macro-expansion language.  And this macro-expansion is the ONLY way
    to feed the guts.  And this language is extremely idiosyncrasic, fragile, and
    with only very primitive tools for debugging.  What Knuth also did was shipping
    a certain \u201Cuser-friendly\u201D packet of macros (Plain TeX) which made it
    possible to feed the guts in a way not immediately killing the writer.\r\n\r\nSo
    when people say TeX, sometimes they mean \u201CTeX guts\u201D, sometimes they
    mean \u201Cguts + Plain TeX\u201D.\r\n\r\nLaTeX and ConTeXT are two alternative
    macro packages designed to address the problem of feeding the guts in different
    ways than Plain TeX.  Both hide a lot of details under the hood, and make it extremely
    easy to e.g., auto-number the sections and formulae etc.  Oftentimes these extra
    levels of hiding make things easier, but sometimes they make control harder; so
    people often use lower-lever commands inside LaTeX documents (in a certain sense,
    they put chunks of TeX input inside LaTeX input \u2014 more often than not this
    \u201Cjust works\u201D)."
  created: '2013-04-19 08:09:03'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "> <em>AFAIK, it remains the best even now, 30 years after it was written</em>\r\n\r\nHmm,
    I think that I did not put the proper credit where it is due: while TeX was written
    \u201Cthen\u201D, it is the microtypography (and other improvements) added in
    pdfTeX which (as I've heard) keep the TeX in front of the competition.  My knowledge
    of these changes is much more cursory, though\u2026."
  created: '2013-04-19 08:18:09'
date: '2013-04-18 21:45:19'
node_type: forum
title: Two space, or not two space?

---
