---
author:
  name: Thomas Phinney
  picture: 128358
body: "Hey guys,\r\n\r\nSo, somebody on Wikipedia has been fairly successfully propagating
  the label \"virtual typefaces\" for what I would call digital typefaces or digital
  fonts. That category has been getting applied to many typefaces, apparently the
  distinction being that they are *only* available in digital form, and were not phototype
  or metal typefaces.\r\n\r\nSo, two related questions:\r\n\r\n1) I might argue that
  every typeface that is available in digital form should also get the same label
  (whatever that label is). Agree or disagree?\r\n\r\n2) I think the label \"virtual
  typeface\" is silly. Nobody uses that term that I am aware of, except this one person.
  The actual link redirects to \"computer font.\" Some possible labels:\r\n<ul><li>Computer
  typeface</li>\r\n<li>Digital typeface</li>\r\n<li>Virtual typeface</li></ul>\r\n\r\nFor
  the category label, \"font\" does not work so well because we are indeed talking
  about \"typefaces\" (the entire family).\r\n\r\nWhat do you prefer?\r\n\r\nPersonally,
  I prefer \"digital\" over \"computer\" because these fonts are used on many devices
  that are not thought of as computers, even if they do have computer chips inside
  them."
comments:
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'If you follow the link http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_typeface you
    are redirected to "Computer font". Note that there are <a href="http://www.tex.ac.uk/cgi-bin/texfaq2html?label=virtualfonts">virtual
    fonts</a> in TeX, with extension .vf '
  created: '2013-05-02 21:27:42'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Definitely \u201Cdigital\u201D. How can this guy possibly insist on a term
    that people who make the damned things have never heard of (outside of TeX)? Good
    luck with that."
  created: '2013-05-02 21:30:17'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: Virtual fonts in TeX contain no glyphs (no spline) of their own and thus may
    deserve being called "virtual".
  created: '2013-05-02 21:40:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '''Digital typeface'' seems eminently sensible, if one intends to refer to
    the target medium of the original design. Hence, one would talk about metal typefaces,
    photo typefaces and digital typefaces, as types originally designed for those
    media, independent of their current implementation in whatever font format.'
  created: '2013-05-02 21:56:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I thought this was about font delivery via the cloud... But even for that
    \"virtual\" is pretty lousy - I would prefer something like \"offline\", \"hosted\",
    \"proxy\" or something. But for plain ol' computer fonts, \"digital fonts\" isn't
    just reasonable, it's also already established. Please get him to stop.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-02 22:13:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"1) I might argue that every typeface that is available in digital form
    should also get the same label (whatever that label is). Agree or disagree?\"\r\n\r\nDigital
    alone has never described bitmaps vs outlines vs strokes vs metafontishness.\r\n\r\n\"2)
    I think the label \"virtual typeface\" is silly. Nobody uses that term that I
    am aware of, except this one person. The actual link redirects to \"computer font.\"
    \r\n\r\nSilly as it is, it is word for word, accurate. It is not a font but a
    typeface, and it has the attributes of wood, metal, and phototype, without sharing
    its physical form, unless one insists on making a font from the virtual typeface. "
  created: '2013-05-03 14:48:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">How can this guy possibly insist on a term that people who make the damned
    things have never heard of (outside of TeX)? Good luck with that.\r\n\r\nIf this
    fellow has enough time on his hands and an agenda to devalue digital type then
    maybe he can get the term to stick?"
  created: '2013-05-03 15:12:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> Silly as it is, it is word for word, accurate.\r\n\r\nI am not disagreeing
    that it is an accurate description. But I don\u2019t think it is reasonable to
    make up a brand new term for an encyclopedia. It also seems to denigrate the category,
    as Si points out."
  created: '2013-05-03 18:27:11'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[to follow]'
  created: '2013-05-03 18:39:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It is not a font but a typeface, and it has the attributes of wood, metal,
    and phototype, without sharing its physical form, unless one insists on making
    a font from the virtual typeface.</em>\r\n\r\nIn that sense, all typefaces are
    virtual until implemented as a font. But that's not the sense in which the guy
    on Wikipedia seems to be using the term. He's using it to distinguish typefaces
    designed for digital media from typefaces designed for e.g. metal. I presume he's
    borrowing the term from 'virtual reality', confusing the computer medium of digital
    virtual reality with what makes it virtual (which suggests he never played any
    role-playing games).\r\n\r\n<em>Digital alone has never described bitmaps vs outlines
    vs strokes vs metafontishness.</em>\r\n\r\nA general descriptive term or category
    doesn't need to express distinctions of sub-categories."
  created: '2013-05-03 18:53:57'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I agree that the notion that a typeface only available in digital form isn't
    a \"real\" typeface is not sensible. Now, if somehow the only fonts in which it
    were available had some kind of DRM code in them, so that they could only be displayed
    and never printed...\r\n\r\nBut at one time, I coined a similar phrase. A manual
    for a computer text processing program assigned some EBCDIC codes to overprinted
    characters on a particular line printer. Since those characters didn't actually
    correspond to type slugs, I proposed to call this extended character set a \"virtual
    character set\".\r\n\r\nBy focusing on the means of production instead of the
    end product, I perhaps made the same mistake as they did here."
  created: '2013-05-03 19:22:58'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "If the initial question refers to the page entitled \"Category:Virtual typefaces\"
    http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Virtual_typefaces which states\r\n<blockquote>\r\nThis
    category contains <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_typeface\">virtual
    typefaces</a> that exist in digital form, as opposed to actual type that has been
    cast in metal, or fonts made available for <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Typesetting\">Photocomposition</a>.\r\n</blockquote>\r\na
    page which contains \"Ionic (wooden typeface)\" in its list, then \"digital typeface\"
    would not be any better than \"virtual typeface\" as a name for the category (and
    the description does not correspond to the list)."
  created: '2013-05-03 19:39:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The whole notion that anything on a computer is only virtual vs anything physical
    is, as I suggested earlier, a misapplication of the term as it relates to a particular
    digital phenomenon, 'virtual reality'. What makes virtual reality virtual is that
    it seeks to emulate things and experiences that exist in reality. This seems to
    me directly contrary to the usage proposed for 'virtual typefaces', which are
    -- ignoring the massive inconsistencies of the example list -- precisely those
    that do <em>not</em> seek to emulate actual type defined as that 'cast in metal'.
  created: '2013-05-03 20:34:01'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: '~'
  created: '2013-05-03 20:40:44'
- author:
    name: ahyangyi
    picture: 120032
  body: "I think it's better to leave the word \"virtual\" in strictly the sense as
    that in LaTeX.\r\n\r\nSay, assume that I somehow hacked libfreetype and libfontconfig
    to let my programs use a typeface named \"Hybrid\", which is just Times New Roman
    except an alternative /g/. Programs requesting for glyphs in \"Hybrid\" will get
    every glyph except /g/ from Times new Roman but will get a /g/ from another source.
    That \"Hybrid\" font will deserve the name of a \"virtual\" font, because it doesn't
    actually exist in my hard disk (if it would, I will be violating the EULA of Times
    New Roman).\r\n\r\nOther uses of this term will cause confusion. Why not just
    digital or \"digital-only\"?"
  created: '2013-05-03 20:47:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Note that the LaTeX use is virtual <em>font</em>, not virtual typeface. As
    I understand Tom's original post, the search is for a term that denotes types
    originally designed for digital media, as distinct from say those that are digital
    font revivals or otherwise versions of types originally designed for metal etc.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    your example of a LaTeX virtual font corresponds to what is now often referred
    to generically as a composite font, i.e. a combination of two or more fonts appearing
    to applications as if a single font, allowing mixing of glyphs from these different
    component fonts to represent specific characters. The ISO/IEC 14496-28:2012 standard
    defines a Composite Font Representation, which is a kind of XML wrapper identifying
    the component fonts and to which characters they apply."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ahyangyi
      picture: 120032
    body: "John Hudson,\r\n\r\nThank you! Composite font is a good name for what I
      had in mind."
    created: '2013-05-03 23:26:40'
  created: '2013-05-03 21:28:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"He's using it to distinguish typefaces designed for digital media from
    typefaces designed for e.g. metal\"\r\n\r\nYeah that part is nuts.\r\n\r\nBut,
    we now have virtual typography, and one dont get there without virtual typefaces,
    and unless you like digital fonts or digital outlines or outline fonts, or digital
    outline fonts or digital typefaces, typeface fonts, typeface outlines, or fonts,
    we had no term. \r\n\r\nWhether the fonts are imitations of metal printed on sand,
    Garamond in general, or Segoe on xp at 19 PX in particular, is not that important
    compared to the users' points of views, which are, that these things were all
    physical before they appeared on screen, \r\n\r\n(and BTW, deep down in a piece
    of the brain you'll never find, there is the actual virtual skull of a cow lurking
    for every single a, and a holy cow for every a-ring.)"
  created: '2013-05-03 23:29:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Aring_5003.jpg]'
  created: '2013-05-04 01:06:29'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>a misapplication of the term as it relates to a particular
    digital phenomenon, 'virtual reality'.</cite>\r\n\r\nOf course, though, the idea
    of using \"virtual\" in a similar sense in connection with computers came about
    much earlier, back in the days when the term \"virtual memory\" was used for what
    swap files give to programs."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ahyangyi
      picture: 120032
    body: "In that sense, isn't computer memory itself \"virtual\" as what it stores
      is probably never produced first in somebody's brains. \r\n\r\nPerhaps for we
      should call the swap files \"virtual virtual memory\" then."
    created: '2013-05-04 04:23:10'
  created: '2013-05-04 02:52:48'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "In my opinion, adopting the term \u201Cvirtual\u201D not only requires a
    contextual re-definition of the term, but opens up a can of worms to the tune
    of needing to back-label every other typeface in the world based upon its original
    material design. Not to mention how to deal with ones that were made in different
    materials at the same time. Too many combinations. \r\n\r\nPrediction: Instead
    of being called \u201Cvirtual typefaces\u201D (by one-eyed technophiles with a
    desire to label all things new) the term will disappear within two years, and
    what are now being called \u201Cvirtual typefaces\u201D will be called what they
    are. Typefaces that only exist in a digital form (or a similar phrase that is
    a simple and accurate). Ore better yet, what they have always been called. Typefaces.
    I believe the term \u201Cvirtual typeface\u201D will eventually be seen as a fad
    buzz-word, the way we now view the term \u201C<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Information_superhighway\">information
    superhighway</a>.\u201D"
  created: '2013-05-04 14:21:00'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: I think that since digital type is the norm these days, the distinctions should
    be for metal or other forms of type... Which is sort of what we do already, isn't
    it? Type is assumed to be digital by default, unless you specify otherwise.
  created: '2013-05-04 20:22:52'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: And I who thought that all typefaces were virtual; that once they became real,
    they&rsquo;d become fonts.
  created: '2013-05-04 20:24:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\nThe fact that http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Virtual_typeface redirects
    to an entry titled \"computer font\" should say it all .\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-05 00:35:19'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: Is it too late to propose <em>cyberfont</em>? Because that would be, like,
    cool and futuristic....
  created: '2013-05-05 01:35:07'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201CCyberfont\u201D totally gets my vote. I\u2019m still pissed that the
    \u201CInformation Superhighway\u201D didn\u2019t end up being called the \u201CInfobahn\u201D
    (its mentioned in first sentence of the Wikipedia link)."
  created: '2013-05-05 01:52:54'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "you're all crazy.\r\n\r\n:o)"
  created: '2013-05-05 03:19:51'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Just out of curiosity, what does he call photocomposition typefaces? How
    about in-between systems like the L-202 (with which bbg is intimately familiar)?
    The type is stored digitally, but can only be usefully rendered on the video screen,
    where it exposes photosensitive paper.\r\n\r\nDigital *fonts* (what's sold) are
    published. Metal fonts are *founded.* Can't copyright 'em... What's photocomp,
    published or founded....?\r\n\r\nThe implementation of type, a \"font,\" is a
    system capable of rendering random character sequences the same, if one chooses,
    time after time. Handwriting, painting, stone cutting, etc.,  perforce introduces
    variables in the characters each time they are created.\r\n\r\nWikipedia is full
    of errors about type and typesetting. \r\n\r\nAnd so what if we're all crazy?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-05 03:22:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, I'm reminded of one of my favorite cartoons from the 90s: a 6-lane
    freeway labeled \"Information Superhighway\", totally congested with trash trucks...
    Kind of like when TV was invented, people were so excited that it would enable
    widespread education...\r\n\r\nYou need a king for that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-05 03:42:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: And who can forget <a href="http://visiblelanguagejournal.com/web/abstracts/abstract/typography_with_the_ibm_selectric_composer">Typography
    with the IBM Selectric Composer</a> (Frutiger, A. 1967).
  created: '2013-05-05 04:01:00'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>\"computer font\" should say it all .</cite>\r\nSort of like saying
    motor car... or, um, electric light."
  created: '2013-05-05 04:04:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>You need a king for that.</em>\r\n\r\nOh yeah, universal education is
    a real hallmark of monarchical aristocracy. That's why social democrats never
    had to fight for it."
  created: '2013-05-05 07:18:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Have typewriter fonts been classified?
  created: '2013-05-05 13:27:25'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IBM_Selectric_typeball_4542.jpg]\r\n<em>Figure
    1</em>: What is this classified as?"
  created: '2013-05-05 13:51:04'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: an antique
  created: '2013-05-05 14:33:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, let's just say that I don't count the de facto enslavement of women
    to further better brainwash our children (concocted by British democracy to -further-
    empower Industry) as \"universal education\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-05 16:09:37'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "I guess Infobahn wasn't pretentious enough for the Inner Party.\r\n\r\nAside:
    I also like 'Infomat' for a public data terminal and sedecimal for the sixteen-digit
    numbering system."
  created: '2013-05-05 19:10:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Those highway metaphors were always silly. Everyone knows the Internet is
    a series of tubes.
  created: '2013-05-05 19:35:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...needing to back-label every other typeface in the world based upon its
    original material design\"\r\n\r\nWhat? this is a project well underway for other
    purposes, but there is nothing here-related \"needing\" it, and no one is saying
    \"every other typeface in the world\", it's \"every typeface in the world\", dude.
    \r\n\r\n\"Have typewriter fonts been classified?\"\r\n\r\nNormally (as in since
    mid-60's?), they fall into a class called \"Monospace\", but we are thinking about
    subclasses and trans-classified fonts too. \r\n\r\n\"...a real hallmark of monarchical
    aristocracy\"\r\n\r\n...is its habit of crushing type under the free press it
    crushes above? \r\n\r\nIt would be funny, if it were not so sad, that the longest
    \"successful\" chain of monarchs in Euro-history, were also the last aristocracy
    to go genocide, (against Greeks, Assyrians and others), leaving its democratic
    successor state to clean up the mess. If that line had only fallen a single generation
    earlier, there might be a much more diverse Near-Eastern cultural landscape. But
    it's all virtual now. \r\n"
  created: '2013-05-06 12:48:59'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I am surprised, nay, stunned, that a collective of contemporary type designers
    cannot solve the problems that have long plague the world.\r\n\r\nThat said, and
    borrowing from a post by Thomas in another thread, how about, in a technical environment,\r\n\r\nTypeface
    = design,\r\nFont = specific implementations of the design.\r\n\r\nYes, I know
    this moves the terminological debate from \"virtual typeface\" to \"virtual font,\"
    but somehow I'm much less resistant to \"virtual font.\"\r\n\r\nFor commonspeak,
    where 'typeface' and 'font' are collapsed, well, as always, rely on context.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-06 13:33:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, are you taking about Germany or Turkey?\r\n\r\nBTW the longevity of
    a monarchy has nothing to do with how likely it is to end in genocide. And most
    significantly, the <em>worst</em> genocide in history was carried out by a democratic
    country... the one you and I are standing on (which is one reason I don't vote).
    One could even say that the US would not have become a superpower without the
    Native American genocide (not to mention slavery). And it doesn't help that there's
    a holiday to pretend they were friends.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-06 14:27:15'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "<blockquote>Typeface = design,\r\nFont = specific implementations of the
    design.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nFully agreed."
  created: '2013-05-06 15:06:59'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I agree with that, too. \u201CVirtual font\u201D would make more sense, although
    it\u2019s still not a term anyone uses."
  created: '2013-05-06 15:52:02'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I\u2019m not sure I\u2019m following the typeface/font distinction you are
    drawing in the context of this thread.\r\n\r\nTo date, my understanding has been
    Typeface = an entire family. Font = a specific size. \r\n\r\nDo not your  \u201CTypeface
    = design, Font = specific implementations of the design\u201D confuse the entire
    \u201Cvirtual\u201D naming scheme even further as it shifts the meaning of two
    previously defined terms?"
  created: '2013-05-06 16:24:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>To date, my understanding has been Typeface = an entire family.
    Font = a specific size. </em>\r\n\r\nNooooooooo. A typeface is an individual design
    style, so that would be not an entire family but the individual roman, italic,
    bold, etc. designs. A font is a functional implementation of a typeface <em>or
    some part of a typeface</em> for a given technology. Hence, a font of metal foundry
    type would be a tray of sorts in a particular style/weight combination, its functionality
    determined by the set of languages it can cover. So a single typeface, e.g. Fubar
    Roman, might be spread across multiple fonts if it happened to support more characters
    than a single composing tray could hold and had extensions for 'exotics'. You
    are right that a font, in the context of metal type, would be a specific size,
    but it is a specific size of a specific style design: a font is not a specific
    size of an entire family. A family is either a typeface family or a font family,
    depending whether you are talking about a set of related designs or a collection
    of fonts.\r\n\r\nWhat I like about this use of the terminology is that it is technologically
    independent. The notion of a typeface as described and the notion of a font map
    neatly to various typesetting technologies and attendant font formats, even though
    the referants for the word 'font' change and the elements of a typeface that can
    be captured by an individual font varies for different technologies."
  created: '2013-05-06 18:17:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Thomas: <em>That category has been getting applied to many typefaces, apparently
    the distinction being that they are *only* available in digital form, and were
    not phototype or metal typefaces.</em>\r\n\r\nPeople!\r\nYou\u2019ve got the wrong
    end of the stick, from Thomas.\r\nThe Wiki page in question lists digital revivals
    of pre-digital type designs (with the odd mistake, such as Minion).\r\nThe idea
    is that digital revivals are virtual versions of metal/photocomp typefaces.\r\nThat
    is, if not misleading, shallow.\r\nFor instance, consider three of my faces:\r\n\r\n1.
    Scotch Modern. Even though this is a digital revival, it is not a virtual typeface,
    because the outlines do not look like metal type\u2014rather they look like typography
    done with metal type, including the artefact of press gain. So, although the fonts
    are not virtual, they can be used to create virtual facsimiles of old letterpress
    documents. The distinction is between type and typography, which this \u201Cvirtual
    is a digital revival\u201D concept does not address. ITC Bodoni, virtual; digital
    Bauer Bodoni, certainly not.\r\n\r\n2. Handsome Pro. An original design, and hence
    not \u201Cvirtual\u201D? Surely, if any category of digital fonts deserves to
    be termed virtual, it is those OpenType scripts, with ligatures and \uFB02ourishes,
    the express purpose of which is to imitate handwriting and/or hand lettering.\r\n\r\n3.
    Brown Gothic. As an original design, this would not be considered a virtual font
    or typeface. Nonetheless, it has been designed speci\uFB01cally to imitate, when
    printed by offset lithography, the effect of letterpress printing. I would say
    that\u2019s highly virtual.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-06 20:34:02'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> The Wiki page in question lists digital revivals of pre-digital type designs
    (with the odd mistake, such as Minion).\r\n\r\nThat almost fits the evidence,
    but:\r\n\r\n1) The \"odd mistake\" is about 10-15 of the 149 entries on the list.\r\n\r\n2)
    In the linked \"talk\" page (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category_talk:Virtual_typefaces),
    the inventor of the term seems to say that he intends it to apply to all typefaces
    available in digital form.\r\n\r\n3) The definition of the list, on the list page,
    says something different. \r\n\r\nThe page: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:Virtual_typefaces\r\n\r\nDefinition
    on the page: This category contains virtual typefaces that exist in digital form,
    as opposed to actual type that has been cast in metal, or fonts made available
    for Photocomposition. \r\n\r\n(In the definition, \"Virtual typefaces\" is a link
    to \"computer fonts\")"
  created: '2013-05-06 22:03:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Pure obfuscation. Your Manifest Destiny was the greater disease. Everybody
    knows what happened, but it would cost too much to do the right thing. The democratic
    United States carried out a program of mass extermination to establish a more
    expansive country. They only stopped because they hit the Pacific. You need to
    fess up, individually, as a people and as a country. Most of the world knows that,
    but everybody has their own causes to fight.\r\n\r\nAnd please answer my question,
    so people don't have to wonder why you left out Armenians (who lost the most)
    and how you think the organizers of ISType having to warn the speakers not to
    bring up the Armenian Genocide qualifies as \"cleaning up the mess\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-06 22:20:56'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Off topic much?\r\n\r\nI mean, I actually find the discussion interesting,
    but it seems a bit far off of \u201Cvirtual typefaces\u201D....\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2013-05-06 22:26:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I can let people like David get away with distorting my views*, but -unless
    a moderator tells us to stop- I can't let them get away with distorting genocide,
    especially when one of them is mine.\r\n\r\n* Like I did here: http://typophile.com/node/98443?page=1\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-06 22:39:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@John Hudson: Re your (our) definitions of font and typeface, I think for
    the most part we mean the same thing but with different words. In the context
    of metal, I define Univers\u2014all sizes, all styles\u2014as a typeface. Nine
    point Univers 45 light is a font. Do you agree?\r\n\r\nI am working at my friends
    farm for the next while and am away from my library so I can\u2019t provide any
    proper references (as formatted in a previous thread: <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/102394\">Two
    space, or not two space?</a>)\r\n\r\nI will most certainly do so as soon as I
    return as clear operational definitions are essential to this sort of discourse."
  created: '2013-05-06 23:17:00'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: 'Back OT: <a href="http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4JkIs37a2JE">still a great
    song and clip</a>.'
  created: '2013-05-06 23:33:57'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Do you have quotations from primary sources with references to support your
    definitions? I have not heard the terms defined this way before.
  created: '2013-05-07 00:17:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris: <em>In the context of metal, I define Univers\u2014all sizes, all
    styles\u2014as a typeface. Nine point Univers 45 light is a font. Do you agree?</em>\r\n\r\nNo.
    I thought I'd been pretty clear: the term typeface does not refer to a family,
    it refers to one stylistically homogeneous component of that family, e.g. the
    roman design or the italic design or a particular weight. Univers is not a typeface,
    it is a family of typefaces.\r\n\r\nNow, I fully accept that many people -- me
    included -- use the term typeface in a general and imprecise way to refer to a
    typeface family, but this is a form of synecdoche -- <em>pars pro toto</em> --,
    or simply abveviation. So, for instance, one says commonly that 'I admire the
    design of the Univers typeface', when what one probably means is that one admires
    the design of the whole family.\r\n\r\nBut the more precise use is important because
    one sometimes wants to talk about the individual members of a typeface family,
    i.e. to talk about the individual typefaces.\r\n\r\nA font is always a technical
    instantiation of a typeface, part of a typeface or, in the case of MM fonts for
    instance, more than one typeface. I think this is the fundamental concept to bear
    in mind when using the word font: it refers to a functional thing within the context
    of a given technology, not to a design, and that thing may be a tray of metal
    sorts, a case of brass matrices, a film strip or glass disk, or a computer binary
    file (or files in the case of e.g. PS Type 1 fonts). It is the functionality of
    the thing that defines its 'fontiness'.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nPS. I have no doubt that,
    when you return to your library, you will find numerous citations to contradict
    my definitions, and to contradict each other. You will also find many, many sources
    that use the word 'character' to refer to what we now tend to call 'glyphs'. Over
    the past twenty years some of us who have worked in font development have found
    a need, unsurprisingly, to be able to talk precisely and unambiguously about the
    things we have to deal with on a daily basis. That has meant introducing distinctions
    that didn't used to exist, or to clarify and be more consistent in our use of
    existing distinctions. There is no way to talk clearly about the ins-and-outs
    of text encoding and text display without a distinction between character and
    glyph. Likewise, there's a professional usefulness in clearly distinguishing between
    typefaces and fonts, although most people in common usage do not."
  created: '2013-05-07 00:22:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I am a primary source. So is Thomas. We've been at this a long time, and have
    developed working definitions that enable us to talk clearly about the work we
    do.
  created: '2013-05-07 00:25:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Maybe it will help if I parse your Univers example.\r\n\r\n<em>In the context
    of metal, I define Univers\u2014all sizes, all styles\u2014as a typeface. Nine
    point Univers 45 light is a font. Do you agree?</em>\r\n\r\nUnivers is a typeface
    family.\r\n\r\nUnivers 45 light 9pt is a typeface, i.e. it is an individually
    homogeneous design component of the Univers typeface family. [We're talking about
    metal here, so individual sizes also constitute separate typefaces because they
    are individually homogenous designs.]\r\n\r\nA font is any technological instantiation
    of that typeface. In the case of foundry type, this will usually be regarded as
    a single case of type with all the characters needed to set text in that typeface,
    i.e. in that style and size. If someone is working with more languages than are
    supported by a single case, they might have more than one font for the single
    typeface. In the case of hot metal type, the font will be a set of brass matrices,
    and again they might have more than one depending on the extent of their character
    needs.\r\n\r\nThat a single typeface might require more than one font in a particular
    technology in order to meet the functional needs of the typesetter should alert
    one to the disadvantage of saying 'Nine point Univers 45 light is a font'. Such
    usage provides you with no way to discuss technological particularities. Note
    also that if you talk with letterpress typesetters, they will not say 'I have
    the 9pt Univers 45 font'; they will say 'I have a font of 9pt Univers 45', by
    which they mean they have a case of that typeface."
  created: '2013-05-07 00:39:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>I am a primary source.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAh, well put!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-07 00:46:01'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>Do you have quotations from primary sources with references to
    support your definitions? I have not heard the terms defined this way before.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nJohn's
    right, he is a source. But in the greater scheme of things, just what *counts*
    a \"source\"? I just wrote a chapter in a book (pub date 10 June 2013) that *may*
    get into this distinction, does that make me a source?\r\n\r\nBut an earlier work:
    here is the definition of <strong>Typeface</strong> from the <cite>Glossary of
    Typesetting Terms</cite>, Chicago: 1994, page 106 (& part of the series, Chicago
    Guides to Writing, Editing, and Publishing.\r\n\r\n<blockquote><strong>Typeface:</strong>
    One of the variations or styles in a type <strong>family</strong>. The design
    of a type family, including its shape,  weight, and proportions, makes it distinct,
    but it usually exists in many sizes. <cite> See also</cite> <strong>Appendix 3.<strong></blockquote>\r\n\r\nI'd
    note that this was written before the significance of PostScript fonts, and one
    of our authors included a Brit -- though an LCP rather than a Reading graduate...
    The definition of font, for example, suffers because only metal and photocomp
    are considered.\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\nSources do matter, of course. Here's another
    definition of <strong>virtual</strong>\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Another word used in
    place of \"cool\" or \"awesome\" by urban white punk kids</blockquote>\r\n\r\n(From
    the urban dictionary...)"
  created: '2013-05-07 01:13:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I think they are all virtual typefaces, Nick. It doesn't matter what it's
    trying to look like or how it got that way. Unless one makes a digital outline
    font that can only function at one size, (a bitmap is a virtual font), all others
    are virtual typefaces. Typefaces before, were a font style at all available sizes.
    Typeface families before, were several font styles at all available sizes. \r\n\r\nTypefaces
    now are a style able to represent all font sizes, (a virtual typeface). \r\nTypefaces
    families now are one digital file, that can generate all the styles and sizes
    of those styles, like a superpolator file, (a virtual typeface family), or a group
    of typeface styles, coming in all sizes, like a normal family of otfs, (and a
    family of virtual typefaces).\r\n\r\nSimple as pi. \r\n\r\nHrant: \"..the worst
    genocide in history was carried out by a democratic country... \"\r\n\r\nYou need
    a history lesson. Between 70 and 90% of the native population of north and south
    america was destroyed by deceases brought to the western hemisphere by monarchy-funded
    voyages of discovery, before 1783.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-07 04:03:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Off topic much?\"\r\n\r\nHell no, we found out Hrant's a virtual voter. "
  created: '2013-05-07 05:14:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "John wrote:\r\n> I am a primary source. So is Thomas. We've been at this
    a long time, and have developed working definitions that enable us to talk clearly
    about the work we do.\r\n\r\nI am flattered, but unfortunately on this particular
    issue, we disagree! I use the word \u201Ctypeface\u201D like Charles E and Chris
    D. That is also a clear majority usage within our industry, at least as of four
    years ago: http://www.thomasphinney.com/2009/04/font-terms-survey-results/\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-07 05:59:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thomas, as far as I can tell, Charles and Chris are not using the word typeface
    in the same way. Chris is using typeface to mean type family, while Charles appears
    to agree with me that a typeface is one part of a type family. The definition
    that he cites from the Chicago glossary of typesetting terms is pretty much identical
    to my usage.\r\n\r\n[That definition is from 1994, so I take its reference to
    multiple sizes to imply scalable type. In discussing metal type, I expect there
    are people who don't treat size as a constituting individual typefaces, i.e. who
    would consider 9pt Fubar Italic and 10pt Fubar Italic to be a single typeface,
    but I think that usage is influenced by pantographic production in which different
    sizes are closely related designs. If one looks at older types, and at things
    like Koch's Neuland, in which the individual sizes are quite distinctive and may
    even involve different letter shapes -- consider the variation of the shape of
    Q in Caslon's different sizes of text type -- it quickly becomes obvious that
    a generalised definition shouldn't treat different sizes as a single typeface.]\r\n_____\r\n\r\nI'm
    interested in terminology that enables one to talk precisely about phenomena.
    The use of typeface to mean typeface family and font to mean individual typeface,
    while common -- as your survey revealed --, strikes me simply as hopelessly inadequate
    to actually talk about the phenomena of typeface designs, their organisation in
    families and their instantiation in specific technologies."
  created: '2013-05-07 07:22:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: BTW, Thomas, looking at your survey results, I see that among type industry
    professionals 73.2% responded that 'A typeface is the abstract design; a font
    is a computer file instantiating a typeface in a specific format' -- which is
    pretty much my definition of font, at least in the digital context (I don't like
    the word 'abstract' in referring to the typeface design, though) --, and only
    47.9% considered typeface to encompass more than a single style and font to mean
    an individual style. Given the total number of respondents and the number of positive
    responses to the proposed definitions, it appears that some people overlooked
    the contradictions between them; this might have been a problem with the design
    of the survey.
  created: '2013-05-07 07:47:24'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "John, no, differences in sizes wasn't particularly a reference to scalable
    type. We were including metal type, and remember, with photocomp, there could
    be different masters, an 8-point, a 12-point, an 18-point, all for the same type
    family. We were talking about differences in *design.*\r\n\r\nBut the point that
    the <cite>Glossary</cite> is from a time before PostScript is relevant, partly
    technical, particularly in a legal/sales context. Take \"font protection\": A
    font would only work on one brand of machine, sometimes only one individual machine.
    Linotron 202 fonts took advantage of a chip in the typesetting machine, so if
    you bought a new 202, you couldn't just load your old fonts into the new machine.
    Some similarities to PostScript fonts there, but I doubt the notion of copyright
    was the same. \r\n\r\nAnyway, back to scaling type -- any number of books composed
    in hot metal were scaled in printing. People forget that the metal type was good
    for only about 5-7 thousand impressions. You don't print a best-selling author
    from the type as set, you make stereo plates, or pull repro and print offset.
    With repro & the subsequent camera work, you can scale. I doubt, for example,
    my first edition of Rex Stout's <cite>The Doorbell Rang</cite> was really set
    to a 21 pica, nine point measure. From the look of it, probably set to 2o picas
    & shot up a bit."
  created: '2013-05-07 13:37:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@John Hudson: I in no way refuting or discounting your knowledge, skill,
    and experience. Quite the contrary. You are significantly more specialized and
    experienced than I in this field. And most other Typophiles for that matter.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\u201CI
    am a primary source\u201C</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTo the best of my knowledge, you
    would have to be the originator of those terms to be a primary source. If you
    heard or read them somewhere and they are unavailable for reference, that would
    make you a secondary or indirect source, but a source none the less. A formal
    APA example:\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n<em>A font is any technological
    instantiation of that typeface. In the case of foundry type, this will usually
    be regarded as a single case of type with all the characters needed to set text
    in that typeface, i.e. in that style and size. If someone is working with more
    languages than are supported by a single case, they might have more than one font
    for the single typeface. In the case of hot metal type, the font will be a set
    of brass matrices, and again they might have more than one depending on the extent
    of their character needs.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>That a single typeface might require
    more than one font in a particular technology in order to meet the functional
    needs of the typesetter should alert one to the disadvantage of saying 'Nine point
    Univers 45 light is a font'. Such usage provides you with no way to discuss technological
    particularities. Note also that if you talk with letterpress typesetters, they
    will not say 'I have the 9pt Univers 45 font'; they will say 'I have a font of
    9pt Univers 45', by which they mean they have a case of that typeface</em>.\u201D
    (Hudson, J. 2013).\r\n\r\nHudson, J. (2013, May 06). Re: Better term for \"Virtual
    Typefaces\"? Wikipedia category [Online forum comment]. Retrieved from http://typophile.com/node/102722\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nHowever,\r\n\r\n<blockquote>We've
    been at this a long time, <strong>and have developed working definitions</strong>
    that enable us to talk clearly about the work we do.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIf this
    is the case, perhaps we are indeed in the midst of (re)defining these terms. Which
    is quite likely given the multitude changing technologies, and quite exciting
    too. I am fully aware of the phenomenon of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Biolinguistics\">biolinguistics</a>
    and it has to start somewhere. \r\n\r\nThe very genesis of this thread is indeed
    about the development of language and meaning.\r\n\r\nPerhaps requesting a \u201Cprimary
    source\u201D wasn\u2019t what I was going for. I was simply interested if there
    is documentation of someone else using this language the same way as yourself.\r\n\r\n\r\n@charles
    ellertson:\r\n<blockquote>\u201CJohn's right, he is a source. But in the greater
    scheme of things, just what *counts* a \"source\"?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s
    a pretty big question. I would have to do a bit of digging to provide you with
    a formal answer, but as mentioned earlier, I\u2019m working on a friends farm
    right now sans-library, and there is daylight, which means I need to put things
    in the ground. To the best of my ability, and under these conditions, I would
    say that a source is artifact (book, article, radio interview &c) someone references,
    that another person could then find at a later date and validate. Without sources,
    the statement would be considered anecdotal.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I just wrote a
    chapter in a book (pub date 10 June 2013) that *may* get into this distinction,
    does that make me a source?\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes, this makes you a source.
    In fact, according to APA, you already are a source:\r\n\r\nEllertson, C. (2013).
    <em>Title of work</em>. Unpublished work [or \u201CManuscript\r\nsubmitted for
    publication, or \u201CWork in publication\u201D]\r\n\r\nAnd in all instances,
    one must always be mindful of a source\u2019s reliability.\r\n\r\nI wish I had
    more time to spend. This is a great discussion. I look forward to seeing what
    has transpired after the sun goes down."
  created: '2013-05-07 13:59:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>Yes, this makes you a source. In fact, according to APA, you
    already are a source:\r\n\r\nEllertson, C. (2013). Title of work. Unpublished
    work [or \u201CManuscript\r\nsubmitted for publication, or \u201CWork in publication\u201D]</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut
    I don't remember if I talked about \"typeface\" versus \"font.\" Maybe not. I
    know I covered \"character\" versus \"glyph.\" Remember I went back & changed
    a lot of \"foundries\" to \"publishers\" in the text itself, but probably not
    all. It's really hard to go back to something you wrote, even for a quick look.
    Nothing like having all your mistakes shoved in your face, esp. when it's you-yourself
    doing the shoving... "
  created: '2013-05-07 15:26:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "A quote/reference example I meant to use earlier:\r\n\r\n\u201C<em>To me
    John Hudson is Typophile's most valuable member (and yes, I am counting myself
    :-).</em>\u201D\r\n\r\nPapazian, H. H. (2013). Re: Suggestion: move Type ID Board
    to top of Forum Menu [Online forum comment]. Retrieved from http://typophile.com/node/101437"
  created: '2013-05-07 15:38:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Wow. That was very nice of Hrant to say that, and until this moment preserving
    of my humility to put it in a thread that I was pretty much guaranteed not to
    read.
  created: '2013-05-07 18:17:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Digital Type.
  created: '2013-05-07 19:33:19'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'John: See the answers to question 3 as well.'
  created: '2013-05-07 20:57:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Yes, I saw those, but they simply don't make any sense to me. Saying that
    the definition of a 'single typeface' is 'a family of one or more styles' just
    means that you've made the terms 'typeface' and 'typeface family' synonymous.
    That doesn't seem useful. And your question didn't provide the option 'It is a
    single style within a typeface family', so that thought, which seems the most
    obvious definition to me, wasn't presented to respondents to consider.\r\n\r\nPeople
    will doubtless draw different conclusions from your data, but I'm afraid what
    conclude is that a) a lot of people have not thought about this very systematically,
    and b) the survey could have been better designed. \r\n\r\nQuestion 4 employs
    the phrase 'a single face/style of a font family'.  In this phrase 'face' -- which
    I presume corresponds to 'typeface' and not to some other kind of face -- is equated
    to a single style, which is my own usage.\r\n\r\n____\r\n\r\nI've got nothing
    against sloppy language in any informal context. I'll regularly refer, <em>pars
    pro toto,</em> to 'type' or 'typeface' when I mean a type family -- e.g. 'Neuland
    is a great display type' --, just like most other folks do in casual conversation,
    but I'm aware that in such a situation I am employing a synecdoche, not a careful
    analytical terminology. If one wants to be able to accurately describe a complex
    of phenomena then one needs a systematic terminology that enables distinction
    of those phenomena."
  created: '2013-05-07 21:53:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That\u2019s all very well John, but few people, professional or amateur,
    are going to agree with you that Caslon Regular and Caslon Bold are different
    typefaces. \r\n\r\nI have always referred to my font families as typefaces.\r\nAs
    far as I\u2019m concerned, that <strong>is</strong> careful analytical terminology.\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    would even go so far as to say that Karloff is a typeface, because if it\u2019s
    not, how can the singular principle that created and unites its family members
    be otherwise described? Is it a clan of families?\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026the disadvantage
    of saying 'Nine point Univers 45 light is a font'. Such usage provides you with
    no way to discuss technological particularities.</em>\r\n\r\nNine point Univers
    45 Light (metal) is indeed not a font.\r\nBut Univers 45 Light (digital) is, and
    that doesn\u2019t discount variations such as language encoding or Pro/Standard.\r\nThe
    default is assumed to be digital, with a minimal Latin script encoding, so there\u2019s
    no need to mention that.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2013-05-07 22:35:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John\u2019s point is that it\u2019s a description of the kind of type pieces
    which can constitute a font, but it gives no indication of which characters are
    present. \r\n\r\nOK, Karloff is a typeface system.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-07 23:29:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nick, do you acknowledge the existence of such a thing as a 'typeface family'?
    You used the term 'font family', but I'm not clear if family is a concept that
    you apply only to fonts and not to typefaces.
  created: '2013-05-08 00:10:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Also, can you tell me how many typefaces you consider there to be illustrated
    in <a href="http://cdncms.fonts.net/images/7f2aba23a7e494a/A.Cheltenham.gif">this
    image</a>, and if your answer is anything other than 'One', please explain your
    criteria.
  created: '2013-05-08 00:13:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>...few people, professional or amateur, are going to agree with
    you that Caslon Regular and Caslon Bold are different typefaces</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    may be right, but then I don't require people to agree.\r\n\r\nI would say that
    Caslon Regular and Caslon Bold are coordinated designs, which together are part
    of a family. A family of what? Of typeface designs, each design constituting an
    individual typeface. A typeface, in my reckoning, is the design of a set of character
    representations (glyphs in modern parlance) in a single weight and style, because
    although other weights and styles might be coordinated with it, <strong>it also
    stands alone</strong>. If we want to talk about coordinated typeface designs,
    we can talk about families; if we want to talk groupings of e.g. larger functional
    sets, we can talk about typeface superfamilies or typeface systems. But families,
    superfamilies and systems are all made up of component designs that also stand
    alone. You don't need all the parts of the Caslon family in order to have a usable
    Caslon typeface. What do we call those things that stand alone if not typefaces
    (and presuming that we're reserving the word font for technical instantiations,
    not for designs)? "
  created: '2013-05-08 00:26:16'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "So now we have: \r\n\r\na) Virtual typeface (computer font)*\r\nb) Typeface\r\nc)
    Font\r\nd) Family\r\ne) Superfamily\r\nf) System\r\ng) Design\r\nh) Clan\r\ni)
    Scalable type\r\nj) Typeface family\r\nk) Font family\r\nl) Typeface superfamily\r\nm)
    Typeface designs\r\nn) Coordinated designs\r\n\r\nAnd I am probably missing some
    more.\r\n\r\nWe appear to be getting even farther from defining \u201CTypeface\u201D
    and \u201DFont.\u201D In addition to this, we are clearly demonstrating that many
    of us apply different meanings to the same words, and that our definitions are
    are purely anecdotal (So far, Charles is the only one to provide a reference\u2014for
    Typeface). \r\n\r\nHence the importance of providing quotations with references.
    With enough quotes and references, perhaps consistent definitions that we agree
    upon may emerge? Or perhaps we may find that not even the history books have/can
    answer this question. For example, two sources defining the same word differently.\r\n\r\nIn
    addition to providing references, perhaps individuals participating in this conversation
    can begin by providing their own definitions to the afore listed terms so we can
    at least have an organized compilation to work from.\r\n\r\nPresently, this is
    a conversation between individuals about semantics (but still a good conversation).\r\n\r\nLooks
    like I\u2019ll be leaving the farm this weekend. Not sure how long until I leave
    the city (and regular inter internet) before it\u2019s back to the farm. Possibly
    only 24h. <strong>If</strong> I have time, I\u2019ll try to provide some more
    as a starting point.\r\n\r\nIf this can be achieved, we may well be in a position
    to assist in the formal definition of many typographic terms, or demonstrate that
    to date, this has not been done.\r\n\r\nOne of the better threads I have followed
    in some time.\r\n\r\n*I don\u2019t count Wikipedia as a <em>reliable</em> source
    given people can modify definitions at will without providing references."
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: Yes, you  are missing Digital Type.
    created: '2013-05-08 16:31:48'
  created: '2013-05-08 13:19:00'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>But families, superfamilies and systems are all made up of component
    designs that also stand alone. You don't need all the parts of the Caslon family
    in order to have a usable Caslon typeface. What do we call those things that stand
    alone if not typefaces (and presuming that we're reserving the word font for technical
    instantiations, not for designs)?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI think I'd be inclined
    to call them \"typeface styles.\" \r\n\r\nDo you think \r\n<blockquote>After careful
    consideration, Brill has taken the initiative of designing a typeface. Named \u201Cthe
    Brill\u201D, it presents complete coverage of the Latin script...\"</blockquote>\r\nshould
    actually read \"...taken the initiative of designing four typefaces\"?"
  created: '2013-05-08 14:43:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"We appear to be getting even farther from defining \u201CTypeface\u201D
    and \u201DFont.\u201D\r\n\r\nSpeaking for yourself, perhaps \u2014 my upbringing's
    definitions of class, typeface, family, style and font are solid into the digital
    era, augmented by the addition of \"Super-Family\", changed by an even more tenuous
    modern attachment to the definition of \"italic\" than there once was, and re
    frontier ed by the addition of increasingly plausible virtuality.\r\n\r\nBut the
    old definitions still apply, like that the angles of the same width apply across
    weights and sizes, nothing I know changes that, or that the font class and font
    family names, make it possible for each foundry to have their version of that
    typeface from which to make fonts, and most people'll understand... nothing can
    change that. \r\n\r\nThere's more, to the end-nub of the smallest un-repeating
    terminal, but somehow ya'al'l have to argue John's extra-galactically off  off-curve
    points back into the em of this universe, yourselves. :)\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 16:17:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Huh, I must've signed in to spokenwordophile.com by mistake.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 16:24:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Categorization often bogs down in a face-off between historico-cultural considerations
    (phylogenetics) and empirical description of physical features and mechancis (taxonomy).\r\n\r\nIn
    this case, John is arguing for the precision of taxonomy.\r\nThat can be problematic,
    as words don\u2019t have accurate meanings (This and That being the only strictly
    logical words)\u2014or often even a single meaning.\r\n\r\nI lean more towards
    phylogenetics.\r\n\r\nFrom my perspective as a digital typographer, it seems clear
    that the professional ecology of typography is based on the style-linked RIBBI
    family of fonts, going under the family name which is the typeface name, and that
    is how one uses fonts in a layout\u2014with Bold and Italic variants of the Regular
    default for emphasis and contrast. This named-family system of font organization
    evolved in the early 20th century, long before Microsoft and the Web.\r\n\r\nFrom
    my perspective as a type designer, I conceive of type families as a whole, applying
    the collection of design vocabulary treatments, which constitute the personality
    of a typeface, across the various styles in the family.\r\n\r\nThe vocabulary
    which constitutes a typeface is comprised of feature treatments such as x-height,
    serif style, amount of contrast, etc.\u2014things which the PANOSE system quanti\uFB01es.\r\n\r\nIt
    is the uniqueness of this vocabulary which creates the virtual concept that people
    can hold in their heads and use to recognize and identify a unifying principle
    or \u201Clook\u201D in a type family, which transcends the individual fonts, and
    that is why the <em>fons et origo</em> of a type family needs to be identi\uFB01ed
    and honored as the Typeface.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 17:15:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "John wrote: Nick, do you acknowledge the existence of such a thing as a 'typeface
    family'?\r\n\r\nI am not Nick, but I do not. I have rarely if ever heard that
    term before this discussion. And yes, I am saying that \u201Cfont family\u201D
    is a near-synonym for \u201Ctypeface.\u201D (Actually, if I wanted to be very
    pedantic, I might say that *technically* a font family is a typeface instantiated
    in one particular format or set of files.)\r\n\r\nTo me, John\u2019s Cheltenham
    image shows one typeface."
  created: '2013-05-08 17:56:06'
- author:
    name: tourdeforce
    picture: 117300
  body: .
  created: '2013-05-08 18:33:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks, Thomas. So you would consider this definition, cited by Charles from
    the <em>Glossary of Typesetting Terms</em> in the Chicago Guides to Writing, Editing,
    and Publishing series to be categorically incorrect, yes?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Typeface:
    One of the variations or styles in a type family.</blockquote>\r\n_____\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that what we have is two -- hopefully not more than two, at least
    in broad terms -- different categorisation and labeling systems, both with some
    historical and conventional usage, but quite probably neither entirely systematically
    codified (in this, type nomenclature is similar to type design classification,
    but perhaps not so inherently unsolveable).\r\n\r\nI'm beginning to see how the
    terminology Thomas favours can be made to cover the phenomena, especially if one
    includes Craig's 'typeface styles' as a label for what I term typefaces. If one
    can map labels to phenomena, then one can also map labels to labels, across different
    terminological systems. This might be a worthwhile exercise, as it would reveal
    the weak points or holes in either system relative to the described phenomena.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nCraig,
    the Brill blurb you cite is using the term 'typeface' as I previously described,
    as what I consider a synecdoche. It's a marketing text, not a technical document.
    If I'd written it, I would have likely phrased it thus:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>After
    careful consideration, Brill has taken the initiative of producing a family of
    typefaces.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut then I'm often more precise than I need to
    be for the given purpose."
  created: '2013-05-08 18:41:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think Karloff is properly termed a typeface <em>system</em>, but calling
    it a typeface is potentially confusing. And I remember calling the Rotis fonts
    a \"clan\" in a short piece I once wrote for the ATypI journal. Even the regular
    and narrow cuts of Emigre's new Program* I might consider different typefaces.\r\n\r\n*
    See my comments (in particular the second one) here: http://typographica.org/typeface-reviews/instant/\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Nine
    point Univers 45 Light (metal) is indeed not a font.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn <em>metal</em>,
    it must be - what else to call it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 18:44:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "As something of an aside, prising open a smaller can of worms (or can of
    smaller worms):\r\n\r\nWhile Craig's 'typeface styles' provides a neat category
    for the individual coordinated designs within a typeface(family), I find the term
    'style' problematic at that level of distinction, since differences in weight,
    size and what I would term style (italic vs roman) exist at that level. Are different
    weight or size designs also 'styles'? Is it satisfactory to re-use the term style
    in this way:\r\n\r\nStyle differences:\r\n - style (e.g. roman vs italic)\r\n
    - weight (e.g. regular vs bold)\r\n - size (e.g. text vs display)"
  created: '2013-05-08 18:48:03'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Yes, I would say that definition was incorrect.\r\n\r\nI would use \u201Cstyle\u201D
    like Craig, although \u201Ctypeface style\u201D still seems like an awkward and
    unfamiliar construction to me. Usually I would use \u201Cfont\u201D in that situation
    (although technically that would include a specific instantiation).\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 22:57:36'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@bbg: \u201C<em>my upbringing's definitions of class, typeface, family, style
    and font are solid into the digital era</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nWhen you have time,
    could you please provide us with your definitions of these terms? Given your experience,
    I would consider them a significant contribution to this discussion. No references
    necessary. Just your own operationalizations."
  created: '2013-05-09 00:12:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Usually I would use \u201Cfont\u201D in that situation (although technically
    that would include a specific instantiation).\"\r\n\r\nWhy argue with oneself
    in front of clients. \r\n\r\n\"When you have time...\"\r\n\r\nI have the time,
    but my feelings are, that Virtual Typeface is a great way to describe our products;
    Linked to \"Computer Font\", as it is on wikipedia, is not so good, and that's
    the easiest way to change things there; This thread is filled with confuseding
    messages, so functional definitions of class, typeface, family, style and font,
    device, foundry, designer, size, I'll take on elsewhere, if that's okay with your
    planting schedule. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-09 15:34:58'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Well, I hate to contradict a primary source who knows more about this sort
    of stuff than I do, but I tended to think of a typeface as an entity that has
    a (simple) name - like \"Baskerville\" or \"Times Roman\". That includes different
    sizes and weights. A font, on the other hand, is a computer file, a package of
    little lead-antimony thingies, or a round film negative. As for 9 point Times
    Roman Bold, we have no good and unambiguous name for that.\r\n\r\nHowever, given
    there are cases where the italic and the Roman of a typeface haven't really been
    designed to match each other - and other cases where the companion has a different
    name (Bembo, for example) - saying that the bold and italic are separate typefaces
    is something I'm OK with too.\r\n\r\nBut <em>the point size</em>?\r\n\r\nActually,
    that makes sense too - at least, if the shape is not invariant with size, but
    instead the letters are optically compensated - 6 point Century Expanded is considerably
    wider, in proportion to its height, than 18 point Century Expanded, for example,
    if you look at the ATF hot metal catalog, and the same was true for most foundry
    types and most Monotype types in the old days.\r\n\r\nBut I don't think it's common
    usage.\r\n\r\nInstead, if one says 11 point Times Roman with long descenders,
    one is giving a <em>type specification</em>, if anything.\r\n\r\nUsing type family
    for the typeface name, and typeface for the spec, has its attractions, but I think
    that \"type family\" was a phrase used only by one typefounder that never really
    caught on with everybody else."
  created: '2013-05-10 16:32:26'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>Well, I hate to contradict a</em> primary source <em>who knows
    more about this sort of stuff than I do</em>\u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nWhat primary source
    are you referring to?"
  created: '2013-05-10 16:49:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: A typeface is a family of integrated fonts and includes variations in weight
    and style.
  created: '2013-05-10 18:23:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thomas: <em>To me, John\u2019s Cheltenham image shows one typeface.</em>\r\n\r\nSo,
    in effect, your meaning of the term typeface corresponds to the collection of
    designs that are marketed under a single trademark. This, I suppose, has the virtue
    of being able to refer to any such collection, however composed, without regard
    for the nature of the design. So, for example, Karloff is considered a typeface,
    despite the fact that the designs are not coordinated in any traditional way,
    because they are produced and marketed under that name. Such a typeface stretches
    conventional notions of 'styles', but you can live with that I presume."
  created: '2013-05-10 18:55:07'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Pushing too much the \"single trademark\" criterion would lead to consider
    \"Computer Modern\" as a single typeface. Here is from Luc Devroye's page <a href=\"http://luc.devroye.org/fonts-26681.html\">Computer
    Modern fonts</a> (and the following picture refers to Yannis Haralambous)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/YannisHaralambous--ComputerModern-in-FontsAndEncodings_5307.png]\r\n\r\nI
    am fine with considering the serif as a single typeface but not the serif, the
    sans and the typewriter fonts together.\r\n\r\nAnd what  about Lucida? To me,
    it consists of many typefaces.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-10 19:23:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I agree, Michel, but I'm trying to make sense of the criteria by which the
    usage of 'typeface' that Thomas and others favours can be considered general and
    predictable. If it doesn't refer to everything gathered under a single name, then
    on what basis are divisions made into what, I suppose, must be called 'sub-typefaces'?\r\n\r\nBear
    in mind that it would be nice if the generic terminology of type were not something
    that only worked in the context of Latin script, so simply saying something like
    'presence or absence of serifs' is not an adequate description of sub-typeface
    division: it is necessary to describe the <em>kind</em> of division that such
    a difference constitutes, so that we can identify functional parallels."
  created: '2013-05-10 19:53:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Somewhere into here, what you are asking for, John, will confront the same
    problems as classification in general. There are cases that get pretty fuzzy.
    This is not a horrible limitation in using the term \u201Ctypeface\u201D in that
    way, of course; even if you disagree with the usage some of us are proposing,
    I think you agree that there needs to be some term or phrase oocupying that same
    definitional space, right?\r\n\r\nComputer Modern, like Thesis, is a kind of meta-family
    or meta-typeface. I agree that at least some of its members seem like distinct
    typefaces. But as one can blend and morph between the various fonts and styles
    of Computer Modern, there will inevitably be grey areas with such a meta-family.
    I can think of other examples that are similarly troubling: Rotis, or Penumbra.\r\n\r\nSo
    in any case, no, I do not think that a collection of designs marketed under a
    single trademark directly defines a typeface (although at least 95% of the time
    it will be synonymous). Such a definition would in some cases get one in trouble.
    For example, Caslon Antique is definitely not a member of any broader Caslon family."
  created: '2013-05-11 07:41:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "This seems to me one of the better things I have read on this subject, from
    Yves Peters' FontShop article <a href=\"http://fontfeed.com/archives/styles-weights-widths-it%E2%80%99s-all-in-the-type-family/>'Styles,
    Weights, Widths \u2014 It\u2019s All in the (Type) Family '</a>. The article recognises
    the variance in usage, and how such variance evolved as type technology changed.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>A
    type family is a collection of related typefaces which share common design traits
    and a common name. A type style means any given variant of this coordinated design
    and is the equivalent of a typeface. Just like with the typeface/font debate we
    understand that some divisions have become blurred. This explains why the term
    typeface is not only used to specify a single style, but also quite often a type
    family with a number of weights and styles.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI wonder if the
    typeface = individual style usage is more prevelant in Europe, and the typeface
    = family usage in North America?"
  created: '2013-05-11 19:18:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "From the FontShop 'Typographer's Glossary' entry for <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/glossary.php?def=family\">Family</a>:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>A
    collection of related typefaces which share common design traits and a common
    name. A type style means any given variant of this coordinated design and is the
    equivalent of a font or typeface.\r\n\r\nSuper families are very extensive with
    a very large number of weights and widths. Type systems are collections of related
    type families that cross type classifications.</blockquote>"
  created: '2013-05-11 19:21:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "And from Adobe's glossary entry for <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/type/topics/glossary.html\">Typeface</a>:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The
    letters, numbers, and symbols that make up a design of type. A typeface is often
    part of a type family of coordinated designs. The individual typefaces are named
    after the family and are also specified with a designation, such as italic, bold
    or condensed.</blockquote>"
  created: '2013-05-11 19:23:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I think I am going to have to start using \u201Cfamily\u201D for where I
    used \u201Ctypeface\u201D before. Sigh.\r\n\r\nBut at least we are all pretty
    much agreed that a \u201Cfont\u201D is a single style, not the same as a \u201Cfamily,\u201D
    right?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2013-05-13 19:04:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I will continue to use Typeface to describe what I design, which is the coherent
    set of design ideas which are implemented in a font family, even if that family
    only has one member.\r\n\r\nRichler, for instance, is a typeface, not \uFB01ve
    typefaces.\r\n\r\nA symphony, in comparison, is not a movement family.\r\nA novel
    is not a chapter family.\r\nA tennis match is not a set family.\r\nA dinner is
    not a course family.\r\nAnd so on.\r\n\r\nAnd for good measure, a font is not
    a glyph family."
  created: '2013-05-13 19:32:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thomas: <em>at least we are all pretty much agreed that a \u201Cfont\u201D
    is a single style</em>\r\n\r\nBecause a font is an instantiation of a typeface
    in a particular technology, the relationship of font to typeface is determined
    by the nature of that technology. It is very often the case that typesetting technologies
    have instantiated typeface designs such that each font corresponds to a single
    typeface style. But that isn't a terminological determination. If you bought a
    set of Linotype matrices in which the roman and italic designs were duplexed,
    you were buying a single font that instantiated two styles. If you bought a license
    for a Type 1 roman Western European ANSI set, a CE roman, and an expert set for
    roman ligatures and oldstyle figures, you were getting three fonts that instantiated
    a single typeface style (and to further confuse the matter, each font consisted
    of multiple computer files and may have included both a printer font and a screen
    font)."
  created: '2013-05-13 19:45:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: It was much easier to keep track of in the old days--each font was about 30
    Lbs of lead in a big flat wooden box :-)
  created: '2013-05-13 20:51:50'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "\r\n><em>\"apparently the distinction being that they are *only* available
    in digital form, and were not phototype or metal typefaces.\"</em>\r\n\r\nAt Kernest,
    Garrick Van Buren uses the term \"Web Native\" for such. \r\nI was unfamiliar
    with the term, but became comfortable with it. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Thomas Phinney
      picture: 128358
    body: 'Rich: Urm, no. Web Native suggests the typeface was specifically designed
      or at least optimized for screen use, and is available as a web font. For most
      digital-only fonts the first part is not true, and I imagine for some the first
      is true but not the second.'
    created: '2013-05-14 19:51:35'
  created: '2013-05-14 05:56:56'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "The word <em>virtual</em> has been abused often in context with what people
    describe as <em>the digital world</em>. If there is anything virtual about something
    digital, it is our boundaries of imagination.\r\n\r\n<em>Virtual</em> refers to
    something unreal, emulated, because it isn\u2019t physical. If only physical things
    are real, every imagination would be consequently unreal, so I think we can safely
    say this is not the case with digital fonts or typefaces. Not to mention every
    computer operation, every mathematical description and every logical explanation,
    they all would need to be called <em>virtual reality</em>.\r\n\r\nI also suspect
    that <em>digital</em> in itself is an artificial construct. We use the terms <em>digital</em>
    and <em>analog</em> in this transitional phase for orientation, because we want
    to distinguish, we want to differentiate. But in reality, the virtualization of
    products began thousands of years ago, throughout the entire course of the development
    of civilization.\r\n\r\nGood examples are currencies and associated values.\r\n\r\nYou
    hear <em>virtual reality</em>, <em>cyberspace</em> and <em>digital</em> all in
    the same context, when politicians, journalists, book authors and media refer
    to everything that was made with the help of computers. It appears to me like
    a new age of mystery label, where everything that breaks out of rational explanations
    based on products of the past gets a <em>magical</em> label. It is a new dimension,
    unlike our vintage objects of the past, therefore it must be <em>virtual</em>.\r\n\r\nBut
    I doubt that typefaces are any more virtual today, than they ever were in the
    age of Gutenberg or the Linotype letterpress. If virtual applies, it should be
    used for the combinations of letters forming words that tell a story. The thoughts
    they evoke are virtual in every sense of reality perception. \r\n\r\n<em>Virtual</em>
    is a superfluous, artificial construct that fails to describe the difference of
    a <em>digital glyph</em> in comparison to, say, one made of metal or wood."
  created: '2013-05-14 18:57:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm, I was reading up on Python and ran into this perplexing bit of history:
    http://www.myfonts.com/foundry/LettError/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-06 05:34:40'
date: '2013-05-02 20:33:49'
title: Better term for "Virtual Typefaces"? Wikipedia category

---
