---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: "I'd like to be able to say that my Constantia typeface had brought down the
  monarchy, but it did at least play a r\xF4le in this week's transfer of royal power
  in the Netherlands. Here it is used for the gilded names in the official Act of
  Abdication by which Queen Beatrix ceded the throne to Prince Willem-Alexander. [Click
  image for full document.]\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.nrc.nl/wp-content/uploads/2013/04/ANP-23178448.jpg\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/abdication_4762.png]</a>\r\n\r\nThe
  document was designed by Jaap Drupsteen, the calligraphy is by Frank Blokland, and
  the gilding by heraldist Trudie Demoed."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice coup! (Pardon the pun. :-)\r\n\r\nActually John you've played a role
    in <em>prolonging</em> a monarchy, and for that I thank you; even if the Dutch
    one is mostly ceremonial, it helps people remember.\r\n\r\nBTW Frank's calligraphy
    is so good, it looks like a font!  ;->\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/102667\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-02 19:08:25'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "<cite>BTW Frank's calligraphy is so good, it looks like a font! ;-></cite>\r\n\r\nI
    really wasn\u2019t sure, I have to admit. If you look at it more closely, you
    do notice some \u2018inconsistencies\u2019 (for instance in the \u2018a\u2019
    counters in the last line), but I couldn\u2019t decide whether to attribute this
    to the blurriness of the picture and the camera angle or to the text being handwritten.
    It\u2019s an admirable piece of craftsmanship in any case, I think."
  created: '2013-05-02 21:04:31'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "\u201CR\xF4le,\u201D John? Not the pre\xEBminent orthography of the current
    age."
  created: '2013-05-03 12:26:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I've also been known to be co\xF6perative, but seldom na\xEFve."
  children:
  - author:
      name: rayzb92
    body: "<blockquote>I've also been known to be co\xF6perative, but seldom na\xEFve.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's
      actually how we spell those words in the Netherlands, which I very much dislike.\r\n\r\n\"Co\xF6peratief\"
      and \"na\xEFef\". Also \"co\xF6rdinator\".\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2014-08-08 23:10:55'
  created: '2013-05-03 18:39:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Touch\xE9."
  created: '2013-05-03 19:16:21'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I've seen \"r\xF4le\" in English - in some of the early books by Edgar Rice
    Burroughs."
  created: '2013-05-03 19:25:08'
- author:
    name: bartd
    picture: 125339
  body: "But how to account for the inconsistencies in /k/ and /K/ on the right page?\r\nCompare
    the final /k/ of Koninkrijk in line 2 and line 3.\r\nAnd the /K/ of Koning in
    the last and the third to last line.\r\nDoesn't look like calligraphy to me."
  created: '2013-05-04 00:06:54'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<blockquote>Doesn't look like calligraphy to me.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBart,
    <em>au contraire</em>. This does not make it look like a <em>font</em> -- and
    nor was it intended to. Calligraphy is the art of Writing By Hand.\r\n\r\nI consider
    it a miracle and a tell-tale sign of Frank Blokland's talents that the calligraphy
    is so extremely <em>consistent</em> in such a long document!"
  created: '2013-05-04 00:15:40'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I wonder if it was "drafted" with type. I would guess multi-line center-justified
    calligraphy would be really labor-intensive to plan out otherwise.
  children:
  - author:
      name: ahyangyi
      picture: 120032
    body: Oops. I thought the left page was typography! Until I realize that's calligraphy
      except those in Constantia. Wonderful!
    created: '2013-05-04 00:26:46'
  created: '2013-05-04 00:15:52'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<blockquote>I wonder if it was \"drafted\" with type.</blockquote>\r\nAnyone
    up to comparing the glyph widths with known fonts?\r\n\r\n(But I feel this would
    diminish the quality of Frank's wonderful work ...)"
  created: '2013-05-04 00:18:17'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: WOW, that calligrapher gots some mad skillz!
  created: '2013-05-04 05:25:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I wish I could do calligraphy like that, but I still have to wonder: is the
    purpose of calligraphy to be mistaken for a font? Or do people get a different
    <em>feeling</em> from actual calligraphy even when they can't consciously tell
    it's not a font?\r\n\r\nPersonally, the better our fonts emulate calligraphy,
    the more I value stuff like this:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/maltin75/8700285499/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-04 05:42:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: For much of the history of printing, typography has struggled to come close
    to the quality of formal manuscript production. We tend to forget this, both because
    we don't spend enough time looking closely at older printed books and because
    most of us have never handled really top quality manuscripts. The consistency
    of letterform reproduction that we now associate with typography is a relatively
    recent phenomenon, the result of photographic plate making and offset lithography.
    Even a printer of John Baskerville's excellence, with his famous innovations in
    paper quality and impression, <a href="http://www.tiro.com/John/Baskerville-a.jpg">couldn't
    produce two identical letters <em>a</em> on the same page.</a> Printed letters
    are subject to many variables -- ink consistency and coverage, evenness of pressure,
    worn sorts, etc. -- while the letters produced by an experienced and practiced
    scribe are subject only to his skill and the amount of time he spends on the document.
    Formal scribes have always had the advantage of much better consistency of stroke
    density from carefully prepared inks, and much sharper, crisper letters on, typically,
    much higher quality, sized paper, vellum or other substrate. Typography has had
    the advantage of speed of reproduction and greater efficiency, <em>not greater
    consistency.</em> People who interpret a strongly consistent formal manuscript
    hand as 'looking like a font' should go and look at samples of such writing from
    before fonts existed.
  created: '2013-05-04 07:08:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I have to say this is very peculiar, John. Typography is fundamentally about
    consistency; and calligraphy was never about <em>wasting</em> time or money, so
    it has its own shortcuts that lead to inconsistency. The only reason early typography
    looked less consistent than <em>some</em> manuscript writing was simply because
    the technology was lousy at first. Furthermore: inconsistency in paper, ink, etc.
    applies to calligraphy just as much as it applies to typography; and good (read:
    consistent) typography also depends on one's skill and the time spent - you can
    take care to ink properly, you can avoid worn sorts, etc.\r\n\r\nBut most of all,
    sending people who associate good (text) calligraphy with a font (which BTW is
    virtually everybody) back in time is completely pointless. What isn't pointless
    is realizing that even on Typophile there are people (including me) who had trouble
    figuring out this example was calligraphy before Frank spilled the beans.\r\n\r\nSomething
    else: some years ago I took a calligraphy class and the instructor actually explicitly
    said that the highest compliment we would get is people thinking our work was
    from a font... Now, I'm not saying my instructor was omniscient, but especially
    when a professional calligrapher says that, there's something there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-04 15:33:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Typography is fundamentally about consistency</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think
    that statement can stand. Typography is fundamentally about efficiency, the fact
    that one can produce many copies of a text much more quickly by printing from
    type than one can by copying the text by hand. Consistency has never been a notable
    feature of typography until quite recently, because of the variables of the printing
    processes that I described above. You only need to start pulling older books of
    the shelves and looking at them closely to see just how much variation there is
    in the impression, in the relative wear of individual sorts, etc. Consistency
    improves with hot metal typesetting, which avoids the problem of worn sorts, and
    with rotary presses, but it isn't until photomechanical processes become widespread
    and letterpress is abandoned that consistency in letterform reproduction becomes
    quite high, affected mostly by variables in paper quality and presswork.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    I need to be clear that I don't believe consistency of letterform reproduction
    is very important, and that it is primarily an aesthetic rather than functional
    concern, which is why it is a feature of the kind of formal document we're discussing
    here and of things like Torah scrolls: it is part of what characterises their
    formal aesthetic. The reason I don't think letterform consistency is functionally
    very important is that for most of the history of writing and typography it has
    not been the case, and yet people have happily and immersively read texts produced
    without such consistency. The evidence suggests that readerability has a fairly
    generous allowance for variation in the display of individual letters within a
    text. The period in which letters were consistently reproduced in printing has
    been quite short; the period in which they were consistently reproduced on screen
    is also now behind us, thanks to subpixel positioning and antialiasing that, rightly
    I think, puts a higher premium on consistency of spacing than consistency of letter
    display.\r\n\r\n<em> inconsistency in paper, ink, etc. applies to calligraphy
    just as much as it applies to typography</em>\r\n\r\nNote that I was specifically
    talking about formal scribes producing the kind of document we're talking about
    in this thread, so sort of thing over which a great deal of practice, planning
    and time would be spent, and for which as many variables as possible would be
    eliminated. Now, it would be possible to exact a parallel level of quality using
    typography and printing -- not the same quality, because the characteristics of
    type and calligraphy are not identical --, also with practice, planning and time,
    but there would be no point because the efficiency of typography is in the production
    of multiple copies, and it seldom makes sense to use type to produce a single
    copy of a document. It is not only more prestigious to hire a scribe, but also
    likely to take less time.\r\n\r\nI'm not suggesting that you or anyone else 'go
    back in time', I am pointing out that the confusion that you describe is due to
    the fact that most people have very little experience of formal manuscript text
    production, and hence don't really have a framework within which to understand
    what they're looking at. The idea that, because of this confusion, calligraphy
    should try to more obviously look less like typography seems to me like the idea
    that letterpress printing should draw attention to itself by being deeply impressed
    into thick rag paper, to which I know you object. Text should conform to the conventions
    and design of the document for which it is intended, regardless of the medium
    of its production. That is craft. The very excellent piece of  Michel D'anastasio's
    calligraphy to which you linked is a fine piece of art, but it has nothing to
    do with formal document production.\r\n\r\nBTW, Frank has a proposal in to talk
    about the design and production of the Act of Abdication at this year's ATypI
    in Amsterdam."
  created: '2013-05-04 19:18:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The writing in that document has much more of a typographic regularity than
    any ancient manuscript I've seen, in either Latin or Hebrew. Also I wonder about
    the point of it, though the skill is awesome. \r\n\r\nI'm reminded of the great
    cabinet maker James Krenov. He wrote that if he was going to do something by hand
    he was going to do it in a way that took advantage of the fact that he was doing
    it by hand. It would show the hand of an individual; the living soul who made
    it would shine through the final piece in a way it could not in any designed and
    machine mass-produced object. \r\n\r\nAnother anecdote. A famous lettering artist
    was asked by a friend why he isn't asked by type design classes to give a talk.
    He answered, \"Possibly because I hate type.\" His attitude was: if he could not
    personalize it, screw it. (He's never done a font.)\r\n\r\nSo I think more expressive
    variation in the hand work would have been more appropriate, but perhaps that
    wasn't his brief. "
  created: '2013-05-04 22:46:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Looking at the body text in the photo originally, without looking closely,
    I thought it was type. That it was instead high-quality calligraphy makes sense
    for an official document of this nature.\r\n\r\nAnd that it is not... expressive
    and individualistic... of course also makes sense under the circumstances."
  created: '2013-05-04 23:54:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, I can concede that typography is more about efficiency (and it a way
    that calligraphy isn't) than consistency, but consistency is nonetheless an inescapable
    part if its spirit. At least in contrast to typography, I feel calligraphy should
    <em>relish</em> its inherent human divergence. This is why, as much as I admire
    and even envy the talent, skill and training involved, calligraphy that people
    -including people attuned to letterforms mind you- have trouble distinguishing
    from typography bothers me on some level. Do note that script fonts bother me
    too on some level.  :-)\r\n\r\n{Added:\r\nAnd most of all, I maintain that it's
    entirely safe to state that once typography figured itself out* it produced much
    more consistent results on average than the average manuscript work; and at its
    highest level (I mean even in the cold-metal age) it was more consistent than
    the most regular calligraphy. Frankly I find it pretty strange to contest that.\r\n\r\n*
    I mean technically; spiritually I think it's <em>still</em> living with its parents!\r\n}\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I
    don't believe consistency of letterform reproduction is very important, and that
    it is primarily an aesthetic rather than functional concern</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut
    there must be limits to how inconsistent things can get before what -I think-
    you're calling functionality is affected. As there are also opportunities (I'm
    thinking of judiciously diverging boumas). But I don't know what the limits are,
    and I don't even know anybody who I think does know what the limits are.\r\n\r\nMore
    importantly, I for one don't believe in separating functionality from aesthetics.
    <em>If</em> the \"subvisible\" inconsistency of calligraphy (which it seems you
    agree that these days is a given) makes the reader feel different (without realizing
    it*) that's part of functionality too. In fact without that there would be very
    little reason to make yet more text fonts! At least conventional ones...  :-)\r\n\r\n*
    If you do realize it, <em>then</em> it's probably more aesthetic than functional.
    Maybe. But anyway that's not immersive reading.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>subpixel positioning
    and antialiasing that, rightly I think, puts a higher premium on consistency of
    spacing than consistency of letter display.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThis is veering
    a bit off-topic, but: I agree that varying the rendering of a glyph slightly to
    avoid a large inconsistency in spacing is a good compromise. However it's not
    really a <em>necessary</em> compromise - you can in fact have both. How? By abandoning
    the illusion of WYSIWYG. We don't mention WYSIWYG much these days, but it still
    haunts us on dead trees.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>the efficiency of typography is in
    the production of multiple copies</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNot only. The efficiency
    of typography is also tied to the fact that it takes less time to hit a key than
    write a letter by hand, not to mention that you can change your mind about things
    with near-zero cost. Plus it looks much nicer for virtually anybody on the planet!
    This is why:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>it seldom makes sense to use type to produce a
    single copy of a document. It is not only more prestigious to hire a scribe, but
    also likely to take less time.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n?\r\nPeople type things up,
    print them (without even saving the files) and post them in quite important places
    way more often than they handwrite things (or get things hand-written). The only
    kind of handwriting that takes less time is post-it notes to yourself that nobody
    else is forced to decipher.\r\n\r\nHiring a scribe <em>is</em> more prestigious
    (in extreme cases like this) but there's no way it's more cost-effective. Case
    in point: why did Demoed use Constantia instead of Frank's talents?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>most
    people have very little experience of formal manuscript text production</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell,
    that's my point. Any document that's meant for \"regular\" people should use a
    font. <em>Unless</em> the \"subvisible inconsistency\" business I mentioned is
    for real...\r\n\r\nBut I'm not actually saying calligraphy should try to consciously
    look different than typography*; I'm saying it should break free of its long-dead
    role of being readable and realize its new role: Art. Calligraphy can really only
    be about personal expression now, where <em>consistency</em> is not a natural
    element.\r\n\r\n* You're certainly right that I object to gaudy over-impression
    in letterpress printing. But that's also why I do letterpress printing very rarely
    - being tasteful in letterpress is simply not cost-effective.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-04 23:55:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But there must be limits to how inconsistent things can get before what
    -I think- you're calling functionality is affected.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course. But
    my point is that whatever those limits are the great majority of historical text
    production has been inconsistent, mostly within those limits, rather than consistent
    in its reproduction of individual letter shapes.\r\n\r\n<em>The efficiency of
    typography is also tied to the fact that it takes less time to hit a key than
    write a letter by hand, not to mention that you can change your mind about things
    with near-zero cost.</em>\r\n\r\nYou are confusing typography and typing. Typing
    is an input method, and as an input method for type it is not much more than a
    hundred years old, so I don't think it is something that can be considered an
    inherent quality of typography. Again, consider the kind of document we're talking
    about: one off, prestigious, part of the theatre of monarchy. Even if calligraphy
    had not been the chosen method of text production, this was never something that
    was going to be typed up on a computer and output to a bubble-jet printer. Against
    the multiple processes of typesetting and printing such a text -- handset, mechanical
    or computer generated to polymer plate, setting up a press, testing papers, running
    multiple proofs, ammending ink, etc. -- hiring a scribe to write it seems to me
    at least reasonably competitive in terms of efficiency <em>for a single copy.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Why
    did Demoed use Constantia instead of Frank's talents?</em>\r\n\r\nI presume this
    was spec'd by the designer,  Jaap Drupsteen; Trudie Demoed was just the craftsperson.
    I don't know why Constantia specifically was chosen, but monumental caps have
    a quality that differs considerably from pen-made caps, and Drupsteen seems to
    have wanted that contrast between the gilded caps and the less monumental text.
    Also, I believe consistency is usually more difficult to achieve the larger the
    writing is, which is why big pieces of calligraphy tend to be more expressive
    than formal text production. Drupsteen evidently wanted consistency to be a characteristic
    of this document, part of its aesthetic, and used different text production methods
    to achieve that at different sizes.\r\n\r\n<em>Any document that's meant for \"regular\"
    people...</em>\r\n\r\nPretty much by definition not a royal family!\r\n\r\n<em>I'm
    saying it should break free of its long-dead role of being readable and realize
    its new role: Art. Calligraphy can really only be about personal expression now,
    where consistency is not a natural element.</em>\r\n\r\nA huge proportion of calligraphy
    in the West has done exactly that, for a long time now, but there remains a r\xF4le
    for scribes in producing certain kinds of formal documents whose purpose is to
    be readable, impersonal and not expressive. In the production of such documents,
    scribes exercise one of the skills that they spend a long time developing: the
    ability to reproduce fairly closely the characteristic letter shapes of the style
    they are writing. In Islamic calligraphy, this is precisely what is taught and
    certified in the <em>ijazah</em> system.\r\n\r\nHere's something for you to think
    about: if the Act of Abdication had been set in a font representing a similar
    style of letter, and this were put side-by-side with Frank's calligraphy, do you
    really think you wouldn't immediately see the difference? And don't you think
    that while appreciately the skill and beauty of the calligraphy you might think
    that the font was a bit naff, as overly calligraphic fonts often are?"
  created: '2013-05-05 00:00:46'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Odd, where I am, the spelling na\xEFve is common, but the spelling co\xF6perative
    is so rare as to be almost non-existent.\r\n\r\nBut as for the main debate in
    this thread: calligraphy is something that involves time, effort, and (if one
    is not doing it oneself) expense. Using a font that looks like handwriting is
    trivial. Thus, while consistency is a valued characteristic in calligraphy, <em>under
    current conditions</em>, whether those conditions came into being when Gutenberg
    invented the printing press, when Linn Boyd Benton applied the pantograph to typefounding,
    or when laser printers became available for home computer users... perfectly consistent
    calligraphy can now be mistaken for something of less value.\r\n\r\nThat isn't
    a negation of the value of consistency in calligraphy, but it <em>is</em> a cruel
    paradox.\r\n\r\nAnd, come to think of it, it's also the perfect moment to bring
    William Morris (the handicraft movement, after all) into the mix."
  created: '2014-08-09 13:51:54'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Lateral to the mention of the handicraft movement, I think this paradox is
    common to other crafts that overlaps in some way, like painting and photography,
    for example.\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-09 14:16:32'
date: '2013-05-02 18:59:57'
node_type: forum
title: Constantia ends monarch's reign

---
