---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: "<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/shinn/richler/\">Richler</a> at Myfonts.\r\n<a
  href=\"http://origin.myfonts.com/s/aw/original/211/0/108163.pdf\">Richler PDF Specimen.</a>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Richler_Typophile_5992.png]"
comments:
- author:
    name: David Vereschagin
    picture: 122439
  body: "Amazing.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-09 13:29:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Congrats and good luck!\r\nI enjoy reading your comprehensive specimens.\r\nI'm
    not sure I'm sold on the spacing philosophy of the roman, but some beautiful letters
    in there, and the italic and inline fonts are very nice. \r\nThe superelliptical
    smiley is awesome!"
  created: '2013-05-09 15:48:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The design of the letters is fresh and and delightful, a real achievement.
    But I agree with Craig that the spacing is problematic. You are going against
    expert craft knowledge to follow a scientific hypothesis of non-designers that
    is likely to be refuted, in my view. \r\n\r\nI do like somewhat looser spacing
    than is the norm now, and you have done that. But to me the eyes say that the
    more even color of the traditional method makes for more comfortable reading,
    though we are talking about very small differences. \r\n\r\nIn display, the traditional
    spacing is aesthetically better, I think. To me, your bolds here look great in
    display, but the regular weight not so much. I suspect this is partly because
    in the bolds the rounds look squarer, so that the idiosyncratic spacing method
    doesn't hurt as much.   "
  created: '2013-05-09 21:11:44'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Bill, you missed something. Letterforms and spacing depend on each other.
    Increasing sidebearings of rounded letters is just a logical \u2013 or if you
    prefer: visual \u2013 consequence of flattening their sides. Nick made rounded
    letters\u2019 sides less round, a bit flatter, more like straight lines with a
    slight rounding towards top and bottom. Therefore he needed to treat them more
    like straight lines in terms of spacing too and increase sidebearings. You can
    easily make the experiment with any typeface, regardless if serif or sanserif.
    Make a round Gill-Sans-like <em>o</em> and space it properly between <em>n</em>s.
    Then make a flat-sided DIN-like <em>o</em> and space it properly between <em>n</em>s.
    You will observe that the DIN-like <em>o</em>\u2019s sidebearings end up being
    bigger than those of the Gill-Sans-like <em>o</em>. This is all. Because it is
    a rather trivial everyday type designer thing I guess I would not have mentioned
    it at all \u2013 or may have mentioned the letterforms but not the spacing."
  created: '2013-05-09 21:56:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Although it wasn't something I considered when designing the face, the spacing
    method works well for small webfont size, which can be seen at Fontspring.
  created: '2013-05-09 23:26:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Karsten, I didn't miss point the you make, but rather explicitly took it
    into account. \r\n\r\nI am well aware that a flatter curve is going to mean that
    for even color its side bearing should be more similar to that of a straight sided
    glyph\u2014so that eg the left side bearing of the e and n are ideally more similar
    with a squarish e than a circular one. \r\n\r\nTaking this into account is exactly
    why I said that I guessed that the bold of Richler working better in my eyes for
    display than the regular. The rounds of the bold look more square than the rounds
    of the regular, as I said. So that Nick's idiosyncratic method doesn't hurt as
    much in the bold. Of course the counters in the bold are different as well, and
    they also affect ideal spacing. I haven't compared the regular and bold one over
    the other. \r\n\r\nIn any case, to my eyes in the regular the round characters
    are a little too loosely spaced compared to the other characters, for achieving
    even color. At text size, I don't know how much this will affect reading comfort.
    My suspicion is not much, but still some. I do think it is an aesthetic drawback
    in the regular, as for some reason visually even spacing does usually seem to
    look prettier. \r\n\r\nNick, on screen, I think looser spacing is particularly
    helpful\u2014that was one of the things Carter did in Verdana. I'm skeptical that
    your change in the relationship of rounds and straights would help, but I'll have
    to check it out.  "
  created: '2013-05-09 23:34:09'
- author:
    name: Matheus D.
  body: Beautiful! It looks fresh, elegant and quirky at the same time. The italics
    are beautiful! Is it available on .otf format? I looked for it at MyFonts and
    Fontshop and only available formats were .ttf opentype. And the spacing makes
    it "feel" more "clearer" and "cleaner". Is it good for typesetting long text on
    books? (I wonder how it would look at very small sizes)
  created: '2013-05-10 02:48:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks! I released it in .ttf only (so far), because that looks best on screen,
    especially the italics.\r\nIn print, there is no difference between TrueType and
    PostScript.\r\n\r\nIt has been used for setting long books, in the prototype version
    before general release, and it works \uFB01ne.\r\nThere are small-size specimens
    in the PDF.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\n@Bill: <em>You are going against expert craft knowledge
    to follow a scientific hypothesis of non-designers that is likely to be refuted,
    in my view.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, your view is off.\r\nIn the \uFB01rst place, this
    type design is an implementation of expert craft knowledge, not a refutation of
    it. \r\nSecondly, I designed it in 2001 (having only now published it after the
    exclusive licence expired), and came across the Larson theory of individual-letter
    reading, which supports my design premise, much later. See page 5 of the PDF.\r\n\r\nI
    mention readability science because many in the market for \u201Ctext\u201D fonts
    like to have that kind of reassurance, and readability theory has been used by
    other font publishers in their advertising material.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-10 06:14:18'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hence no need to speak of an \u201Cidiosyncratic spacing method\u201D because
    there is no such thing at work here. You may find that the spacing has flaws but
    that would be a different story."
  created: '2013-05-10 09:50:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Karston, if my memory serves, Nick also said that he chose to do the same
    method, which he knew to be different than the traditional method of spacing,
    in the original version. So yes, he didn't do it because of Larson, and is just
    using Larson to bolster what he did. \r\n\r\nBut Nick's method here is a conscious
    departure from the tradition reflected in Tracy's Letters of Credit\u2014and Tracy
    is reflecting long standing type lore, as reflected in the Linotype community.
    So contrary to what you say, Nick, it is deliberately going against expert craft
    knowledge. Now Nick, you *are* an expert craftsman, and so you may know better
    and may be innovating here in a positive way. Each person will judge that. Personally,
    \ I think your method detracts, at least in the regular weight, from a wonderful
    design. \r\n\r\nNow as I said, I do like looser spacing; I also did looser spacing
    in my Williams Caslon Text. But that is not innovative, or idiosyncratic, it's
    just a return to older practice, before film type. "
  created: '2013-05-10 14:27:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>So contrary to what you say, Nick, it is deliberately going against expert
    craft knowledge.</em>\r\n\r\nI think you misunderstand that craft knowledge, Bill,
    at least with regard to Richler.\r\nI haven\u2019t read Tracy\u2019s book, and
    am not familiar with his type designs.\r\nHowever, my understanding of the craft
    knowledge of type design is that its most basic principle is even color, without
    spotty clots appearing in text wherever heavy strokes are too close together.\r\n\r\nAt
    the extremes of avoiding this problem are two strategies:\r\n\r\n1. The Incunabula
    method of moving the heavy part of round strokes away from adjacent letters, by
    angled stress. Goudy recognized this technique and revived it, assiduously (top
    specimen).\r\n\r\n2. The Neoclassical method of emphasizing the vertical quality
    of the heavy round stems, and giving them plenty of space between letters (center
    specimen). \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Richler1_5889.png]\r\n\r\nWhat
    I\u2019ve done in Richler (bottom specimen) is in keeping with the craft knowledge
    expressed in types such as Bodoni. Now, you may not like Bodoni, but that is not
    the issue!\r\n\r\n(Goudy & Bodoni specimens are Monotype, from <em>Book Types
    From Clowes</em>, 1950.) \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-10 19:24:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<a href=\"http://blog.fontshop.com/2013/04/17/richler-and-mvb-embarcadero/\">David
    Sudweeks\u2019 FontShop blog</a> on Richler."
  created: '2013-05-10 19:44:19'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Interesting discussion \xE1nd an interesting design.\r\n\r\nWhat I would
    like bring to this is that Tracy's theory was formed by his experiences in the
    earlier technologies, eg lead. I am strongly in favour of Kindersley's way of
    thinking which has its roots in lettering \u2013 balancing inner space of glyphs
    with intra space. \r\n\r\nTo my eye Richler has excellent spacing, overall. And
    I guess that tightening with a general value when typesetting could compensate
    for personal taste without too much loss of quality of color."
  created: '2013-05-10 19:46:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Bert, you imply that somehow Tracy is ignorant of lettering principles, and
    is proposing a method at odds to Kindersley's goals. But that is the opposite
    of the case. They are totally in agreement with balancing inner and intra space.
    Tracy *begins* his section on spacing by quoting Harry Carter: \"The success or
    failure of a type is very much a question of getting a good balance of white inside
    and outside the letters.\" And of course G. Noordzij also emphasizes the need
    to balance counters and letter spaces. My point is that expert craft knowledge
    is unified on this point. \r\n\r\nNick, your appeal to looseness doesn't address
    my point. I explicitly said that I like the looser setting. The looseness of Bodoni
    is not appropriate for an old style for various reasons, but that is not the issue
    I have raised. The issue is *uneven* color. You write in your PDF, \"In the traditional
    Antiqua, the sidebearings of rounded letters are narrower than those of the straight,
    producing a modulated rhythm. Richler, however, has squarish curved letters with
    wide sidebearings\u2014\r\nadopted from the sans serif genre\u2014and a contemporary
    regularity.\" You seem to indicate here that you deliberately made the sidebearings
    of rounded letters close to the same as the straight, as well as doing a looser
    spacing.   \r\n\r\nThat is what I think is also shown in your example, and which
    I think is less than optimal. Now, again I will repeat I know that a less round
    letter usually asks for a wider side bearing. However, here you go too far, and
    in a way that doesn't follow Bodoni\u2014or Tracy, Kindersley, or Noordzij, in
    my view. That is because the amount of the side bearings should reflect the inner
    volume, here the between-letter volume is greater than that within the letters.
    In your examples of Goudy O.S., Bodoni and Richler, the first two are much more
    even, to my eye. In yours, it seems to me that compared to the first two, the
    space between the 'nd' is distinctly bigger than between the 'in,' and there is
    a distinct gap between the pe. \r\n\r\nAs I said, feel free to disagree, but at
    least disagree with what I am actually saying. I am not complaining about looseness,
    but unevenness. That is also not removed by tracking. \r\n "
  created: '2013-05-11 02:28:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, your appeal to looseness doesn't address my point.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    made no appeal to looseness.\r\n\r\nYour point was that I was \uFB02outing traditional
    \u201Ccraft expertise\u201D, and I demonstrated how I have done no such thing,
    but followed the principle of keeping heavy curved strokes apart, a principle
    which informs both old style and didone.\r\n\r\nNow you may think I\u2019ve gone
    too far, but please don\u2019t accuse me of breaking the rules!\r\n\r\nThe purpose
    of Richler\u2019s spacing is to avoid round stems of adjacent letters setting
    too close to one another.\r\nThe emphasis is on an even distancing of the vertical
    stems, both straight and round.\r\nI didn\u2019t look at Melior when I was designing
    Richler, but subsequently I did, and IMO the round sidebearings of Melior are
    too narrow, as can be seen in this comparison (Melior top two lines, Richler bottom
    two lines):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Melior_4839.png]\r\n\r\nRemoving
    the serifs gives a clear representation of the relationships between stem separation
    and internal/external proportions:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Richler_serifless_4835.png]\r\n\r\nWhen
    one looks at Richler\u2019s spacing closely, it does seem strange, because one
    is not accustomed to seeing the combination of close serifs with wide round-to-round
    sidebearings. But looking closely is not the same as reading body text, for which
    this face was primarily designed."
  created: '2013-05-11 04:55:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As to breaking rules, the rule or, better, 'principle' I think you break
    here is keeping the internal and between-letter spacing visually similar. And
    by that standard your result is less than ideal. \r\n\r\nIn your exercise removing
    serifs changes the amount of white space between the oi, for example, so that
    a sans made by chopping off serifs is a misleading guide for spacing a serif font,
    if you want even color. It changes the variables in the principle at issue, the
    principle I have in mind anyway. \r\n\r\nIn fact, as Tracy mentions, straights
    generally are best closer together in sans precisely because of the way that the
    presence or absence of serifs affects spacing. This may make the side bearings
    of straights and rounds a bit more similar in sans, but it doesn't mean that spacing
    serif like a sans, which seems to be your concept here, is a good idea. On the
    contrary, if Tracy is right, and I think so, it seems sub-optimal, which is what
    I'm arguing. \r\n\r\nTo me Tracy's analysis also implies that the relative proportions
    of letters in a sans should be somewhat different, but that is another issue.
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-11 05:21:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026the\u2026 'principle' I think you break here is keeping the internal
    and between-letter spacing visually similar. And by that standard your result
    is less than ideal.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, Richler is consistent with that.\r\nThe round
    letters are \uFB01lled out in the corners, becoming superellipsish, necessitating
    a \uFB01lling out of between-letter spacing. \r\n\r\n<em>\u2026a sans made by
    chopping off serifs is a misleading guide for spacing a serif font\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    example is not a guide, as it was made after the serif font had been spaced.\r\nI
    just chopped the serifs off so you could see more clearly the relationship between
    internal and external space, without the distraction of the serifs.\r\nOf course
    the serifs effect spacing.\r\n\r\nI have explained Richler as \u201Cbeing spaced
    like a sans\u201D because I was trying to get some of the feel of a contemporary
    technical sans (DIN, actually) into it, not because I started with a sans and
    added serifs,  which is rather too simplistic a procedure! The spacing of DIN
    seemed an appropriate reference for a squarish antiqua, because DIN is kind of
    squarish. I wasn\u2019t interested in benchmarking Richler against Melior or Eurostile,
    Pool\u2019s DIN has the ethos, the zeitgeist I wanted to tap into.\r\n\r\n<em>\u2026as
    Tracy mentions\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nTo my mind, \u201Ccraft knowledge\u201D is tacit
    and not theoretical\u2014it can only be developed, demonstrated, and seen. That
    is why type design is a craft and not engineering. Craft knowledge is not the
    same as \u201Ctype design theory\u201D. \r\n\r\nI prefer to \uFB01gure things
    out for myself, by trying my hand at different genres of type, developing new
    ideas. I\u2019ve designed faces, sans, sans serif, whatever, with many different
    spacing strategies. It\u2019s a matter of taste and judgement, there isn\u2019t
    a general theory which \uFB01ts them all like a glove, that\u2019s not the way
    type design works. And it doesn\u2019t allow for change or progress. So all this
    talk about \u201Csub-optimal\u201D is nonsense. Either the type works or it doesn\u2019t,
    it creates its own interpretation of the rules. And, because it\u2019s a tool,
    much of its performance depends on how people work with it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-11 06:40:56'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I had a better look at an old thread here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19789\r\nand
    what the Kindersley Workshop has on it it:\r\nhttp://www.kindersleyworkshop.co.uk/spacing/\r\nNow
    I have to find my copy of Letters of Credit and some time to digest.\r\nIn other
    words: more later on."
  created: '2013-05-11 11:42:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Michael Polanyi's concept of 'tacit' knowledge is that it is passed on without
    being articulated. But that doesn't mean that it can't be made explicit and articulated,
    or that it becomes less valid if you do. \r\n\r\nI don't know whether anybody
    articulated this principle of equal spacing between and within letters before
    WWII, but a number of people have since, and that doesn't make it less valid if
    you articulate it. \r\n\r\nYou write: \"So all this talk about \u201Csub-optimal\u201D
    is nonsense. Either the type works or it doesn\u2019t, it creates its own interpretation
    of the rules.\"\r\n\r\nWell maybe this is where our thinking about these matters
    diverges. I think there is a strong influence of our mind-brain apparatus, which
    does put real constraints. For the principle I have referred to in this thread,
    I think even color removes 'noise' and so that the letters are more purely 'signal'
    to the brain, and so easier, more comfortable to read. This seems to affect aesthetics
    too\u2014though there are a lot of competing goals for display type, which may
    sometimes override. \r\n\r\nThere are also competing demands on spacing, one of
    these being to keep letters, especially heavier parts of them, from being too
    close. Reconciling the different demands is something the design ideally does.
    I certainly don't think there is just one way to do it. There are *ranges* within
    which different compromises can work, but I don't think the ranges are infinitely
    elastic. \r\n\r\nBy the way, my bringing in vision and brain processing here may
    be my thing\u2014I caught the virus from Peter Enneson\u2014but the idea that
    there are optima in spacing is conventional. I am following Dwiggins, Tracy, Kindersley,
    Noordzij. Nick may be right about it being \"nonsense\", but he's the outlier
    here. \r\n\r\n  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-11 13:31:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't believe I'm the outlier, unless designing original work makes me
    so. Sure, I haven't read those theoretical works, but if they are any reasonable
    representation of tacit knowledge, I don't see how the could contradict Richler.
    What I suspect is that they don't explicitly address the issue which Richler does,
    which is the spacing of a square/superelipse antiqua text face.\r\n\r\nNo, I don't
    believe in optima, I believe there is a range of taste amongst type designers,
    typographers, and readers. What optimal really means is average, and that's something
    a new design can never be. Or else how could change occur? The future cannot be
    predicted.\r\n\r\nI've gone to a lot of trouble in this thread to try and explain
    the principle behind this typeface, with diagrams, brcause type is a visual medium.
    If you are going to continue to criticize this face Bill, I would appreciate it
    if you could post a few balloons for me to take pot shots at, rather than just
    refer to academic sources, that's only fair!"
  created: '2013-05-11 15:26:07'
- author:
    name: J Weltin
    picture: 111273
  body: "I like Richler because i can see some originality in it. It is crisp and
    makes a good body text face. And from what i have read so far from the specimens
    the spacing in text size works well. \r\nI stumbled over the description as a
    21st century antiqua though. I don\u2019t know how a 21st century antiqua could
    or should look like (but it sounds as if it were very modern). Seeing Richler
    i am also reminded of Albert Kapr\u2019s \u201CLeipziger Antiqua\u201D (the feel
    of it, not the design) and the latter is a product of the twentieth century (1973)."
  created: '2013-05-11 17:25:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Thanks Juergen. I called it an antiqua because it's a "book" face and the
    antiqua is considered to be the best book face style, and because of the detail,
    where I was aiming for a tactile effect similar to Palatino. The 21st century,
    well, that's when it was designed, and refers to the innovation of the spacing
    method.
  created: '2013-05-11 18:11:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I like Richler too, which is why I feel the spacing of the regular is a pity,
    because it detracts from a wonderful design. \r\n\r\nNick, I don't think I have
    anything to add to your excellent graphics above, with 'independent' and 'point.'
    I think they make the case very well, except that to my eyes they support the
    point that I'm making, and not yours. In the 'point' case, I agree with you that
    the po may be a bit too tight in Melior, but to me it's definitely too loose in
    Richler. With the serifs removed, yes, Richler looks more even than Melior without
    serifs. But with serifs, Melior looks more even. To me that just makes the point:
    using a sans approach to spacing serifs is a mistake because you get uneven color
    in the serif, where you would get even in the sans. \r\n\r\nYour 'independent'
    examples to me show Goudy O. S. and Bodoni have more even color than Richler regular,
    when you think of 'even color' in the sense of Harry Carter, Tracy, Kindersley
    and Noordzij\u2014and others. Their concept is different from just \"without spotty
    clots appearing in text wherever heavy strokes are too close together,\" to quote
    you. Theirs is a more general concept of evenness of grey, having to do with the
    balance of whites within and between letters. Kindersley, for example, was willing
    to tolerate overlap of strokes in adjacent letters to get the overall greater
    evenness of color in his way.  \r\n\r\nSo maybe what we are disagreeing about
    is which concepts of 'evenness' are appropriate guidelines. I think that both
    the Tracy concept and avoidance of too-close strokes in adjacent letters are good
    goals. And the two goals can be in tension with one another, depending on the
    design. To me alphabets optimally are best designed so that they fulfill both
    goals.\r\n\r\nAt any rate, congratulations on an innovative and delightful design.
    \r\n "
  created: '2013-05-11 18:52:52'
- author:
    name: Catharsis
    picture: 124507
  body: "I like the look of Richler in the body copy above, and can't see anything
    amiss with the spacing. As such, it certainly works admirably as a text face.\r\n\r\nIn
    display sizes, though, the spacing looks decidedly uneven to me. Whenever two
    neighboring glyphs bend away from each other, as in {oo} or {nd}, there's a white
    gap opening between them. It feels like their spacing was made based on theoretical
    rather than visual considerations.\r\n\r\nI find the letter shapes pleasing and
    original (especially the {R} and the {k}), and they deserve to be shown at display
    sizes. Maybe it would be worthwhile to offer the font in a text version with the
    current spacing and a display version with more traditional spacing?\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-12 09:32:49'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I have to agree with Christian about the text/display anomaly. To my eye,
    the text blocks render exceedingly well on-screen\u2014so well, in fact, that
    I am seriously considering emulating the approach for web-specific fonts. However,
    at larger sizes, the spacing looks rather clumsy, IMHO, and the suggestion about
    producing a display version appears sound. Otherwise, a brilliant effort, Nick:
    a tip of the Hatlo hat to you..."
  created: '2013-05-12 13:23:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Yes Christian's observation is very astute\u2014including the compliments
    to Nick Shinn!\r\n\r\nNow I remember that Slimbach in his wonderful [[http://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&ved=0CDIQFjAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fpartners.adobe.com%2Fpublic%2Fdeveloper%2Fen%2Ffont%2F5091.Design_MM_Fonts.pdf&ei=wMOPUcCDL7Ou4AOZ9YDwDw&usg=AFQjCNHm3ckoyw3LYT0i7sUnkZHRDWgnmw&sig2=kfY3DUfGfFypxmVaQLNFOg&bvm=bv.46340616,d.dmg|Designing
    Multiple Master Typefaces]] (1995) shows how opening rounds at small text sizes
    helps, but they need to be tighter for display. He has a good graphic of Minion
    MM, where did this. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SlimbachP53_4110.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    effect is because the eye responds in a non-linear way to changes in size. I think
    what is happening is that at these sizes you are hitting a threshold where the
    letters start to be confused if they are too close, so that they have to be pushed
    away to be perceived comfortably as separate. \r\n\r\nBut I would note that this
    degree of differential opening of rounds is only suitable for very small text
    sizes\u2014and there other adjustments are also appropriate, as the illustration
    demonstrates. I suspect that Nick's current Richler Regular is a bit too light
    for small text as it is now.  "
  created: '2013-05-12 17:36:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thank you all for the kind words.\r\n\r\nRe. headlines, as I noted in the
    PDF, page 5, Adobe\u2019s \u201COptical Kerning\u201D may be applied.\r\n(This
    is one of the few occasions I have anything good to say about it!)\r\nI don\u2019t
    think I will be producing a version spaced for display, as the thing has already
    proliferated considerably with Greek and Cyrillic options, and Standard and Pro.\r\n\r\nBill,
    Richler works \uFB01ne in small text, as may be seen in the index matter of<em>
    <a href=\"http://www.amazon.ca/Mordecai-Life-Times-Charles-Foran/dp/0676979637\">The
    Life & Times of Mordecai Richler</a></em> by Charles Foran.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-12 18:45:02'
- author:
    name: Dtronic
    picture: 112249
  body: "It\u2019s exquisite. Nicely done."
  created: '2013-05-22 05:50:46'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "First... thank you Nick for pushing boundaries and designing Richler... a
    book on economic philosophy that I have been working on for nearly 15 years (which
    pushes the boundaries of economics, philosophy, and even quantum mechanics), is
    now to the point where I can focus on its overall design and typesetting... over
    the past several days, I have poured over samples from hundreds of typefaces (ranging
    from Greta to Stan Plus... from Fedra Serif to Meta Serif). I was looking for
    something that would stand alongside Adam Smith's Wealth of Nations (the title
    of my book is Wealth Beyond Nations) in its social-economic impact. For a while,
    I was trying to fall in love with Rabenau, but its width kept on getting in the
    way. Along comes Richler, a much more economics-friendly Rabenau... serious...
    but subtly quirky touches... we are still courting... but I must say Richler seems
    to have a unique voice that I have yet to find its equal... will post a sample
    here in the coming days...\r\n\r\nAgain, thank you."
  created: '2014-04-05 19:17:36'
date: '2013-05-09 05:50:50'
node_type: forum
title: Richler

---
