---
author:
  name: BlueStreak
  picture: 111058
body: "I knew this was coming, but it's here far sooner than I thought it would be.
  Adobe moves to the cloud only and disconnects those of us who want to work with
  our feet on the ground:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/05/06/adobe_kills_creative_suite_for_cloud/|http://www.theregister.co.uk/2013/05/06/adobe_kills_creative_suite_for_cloud]]\r\n\r\nAnd
  unfortunately there's no alternative. "
comments:
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Also on InDesignSecrets: <a href=\"http://indesignsecrets.com/adobe-indesign-cs-becomes-a-cloud-only-indesign-cc.php\">The
    Future is All Cloudy</a>.\r\n\r\nAs David Blatner says,\r\n<blockquote>.. like
    most software developers, they have found that it no longer works to offer new
    versions once every 12-24 months and hoping that people will upgrade ..</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    s'pose he's right ... not for a \"brand new improved <em>dark</em> interface\"
    and a QR Code generator."
  created: '2013-05-06 23:31:47'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: NOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO!
  created: '2013-05-07 00:04:05'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Just wonder how Adobe will manage continuous upgrades for InDesign. New application
    versions are not an issue to PSD or AI files, but INDD documents are not readable
    by older versions \u2013and a similar issue arrives regarding plugins. Imagine
    a workflow broken or a production error because you used InDesign CC from September
    9th while the printer was using the August 28th version. And then Adobe releases
    an update in September 17th changing the tool introduced in July 3rd but disabled
    due to an error in August 11th version, which are not compatible with plugin Xthing
    9.9 so you downgrade to Xthing 9.4 and... Well, computers are here to make life
    easier.\r\n\r\nThis may seem a bit dramatic, but Muse is experiencing such a quick
    versioning.\r\n\r\nBesides the marketing empty words, InDesign CC will offer no
    relevant addition except native 64-bit structure. Adobe really needs subscription
    revenues when their upgrades offer \u201Cmodern black UI\u201D as a great improvement.
    Better long document management? Maybe in InDesign CC7, or CS13, aka version 16. "
  created: '2013-05-07 02:10:19'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: I guess this is yet another reason I don't what adobe products. Of course
    with my questionable internet connection, I don't even think that it would be
    possible.
  created: '2013-05-07 02:10:51'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> And unfortunately there's no alternative.\r\n\r\nWell, an alternative is
    to use an older version. At least until you're forced to upgrade because a client
    or collaborator has. \r\n\r\n> Just wonder how Adobe will manage continuous upgrades
    for InDesign. \r\n\r\nThat's a good question. Many folks deliberately don't install
    an upgrade until it's been out for several months to give time for bugs to be
    found and fixed. Don't think that will be possible with cloud-based software."
  created: '2013-05-07 02:44:14'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "It wouldn't matter to me if I had a secret government internet connection,
    the fastest on the planet -- I refuse to go the Cloud route. When CS6 came out
    I upgraded to that in anticipation of this, so if that is the end of the road
    for any upgrades then Adobe will not get any more money out of me. It really is
    that simple; I can get by just fine.\r\n\r\nI really am sorry to see this day
    come."
  created: '2013-05-07 02:57:30'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: '~'
  created: '2013-05-07 03:52:18'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "There are so damn many bugs in InDesign -- including CS6, which seems to
    have added more than it fixed --  it is borderline unusable. Problem is, for simultaneous
    print/epub work, it is currently also almost necessary.\r\n\r\nI'm with the guy
    who said  \"NOOOOO.\" Well, like PageMaker and Quark, InDesign will eventually
    be replaced. Soon, I hope, and by someone who views typesetting software as a
    tool, one to be used by skilled craftsman, not a coffee grinder for text so you
    can have kewl graphics. XeTeX looks more & more attractive.\r\n\r\nOne thing that
    would help InDesign would be if there could be a plug in so the H&J routines used
    the normal TeX routines instead of any of the \"Adobe paragraph composers.\" I
    get so tired of InDesign not breaking the exact same text the same way in different
    proof stages. We have to run pdf-to-pdf comparisons at every proof stage, just
    to catch unwanted text reflow, which occurs with paragraphs that had no alterations.
    Publishers just don't put up with that kind of change in the text, so we have
    to catch it. So far, we've only had to pay for the reprinting of one book, but
    the time spent checking is not insignificant...\r\n\r\nI'm sure they will promise
    better bug fixing in the cloud versions, pardon my skepticism. There are bugs
    we reported & were acknowledged with CS2 that still remain to this day.\r\n\r\nEdit:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>but
    INDD documents are not readable by older versions</blockquote>\r\n\r\nFor archiving,
    save an idml  format file, too. Maybe .idml is what you should transmit as an
    \"application\" file, too. Except the text won't compose the same..."
  created: '2013-05-07 03:57:04'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "Yeah, InDesign has its faults, but it's a pretty damn good piece of software
    overall. One of the best things about it is that it integrates so well with Photoshop
    and Illustrator. Any InDesign replacement from a different developer would be
    missing that integration, which is what makes CS so useful. Of course it's not
    perfect, but InDesign and the rest of the suite really do constitute an unparalleled
    collection of tools for designers and represent a massive amount of development
    work. \r\n\r\nDon't ruin it now, Adobe."
  created: '2013-05-07 04:07:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Well, I wonder if they have a subscription model, if they have less incentive
    to do whiz-bang new features, and more incentive to get everything working well.
    Just wondering. '
  created: '2013-05-07 04:28:30'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Charles, you got it backwards:\r\n<blockquote>One thing that would help InDesign
    would be if there could be a plug in so the H&J routines used the normal TeX routines
    instead of any of the \"Adobe paragraph composers.\"</blockquote>\r\nThe \"normal\"
    TeX routines also consider an entire paragraph when breaking lines. There is no
    way to keep both even spacing <em>and</em> the same line breaks when you edit
    text.\r\n\r\nThat said: surely you know you can lobotomize InDesign into behaving
    like Notepad, Word, Quark XPress, and WordPerfect by switching to the Single Line
    Composer?"
  created: '2013-05-07 09:26:49'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "My Quark-feature to be added: Stylistic Sets.\r\nI happen to have Quark 9.0
    next to CS6. Quark 9.0 was disappointing to me because although extensive additional
    OpenType support had been announced, even in that version the OpenType Stylistic
    Sets were still not supported. Does anybody around here know wether that has been
    solved in a more recent update? And when, does it work properly?"
  created: '2013-05-07 12:28:27'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@BlueStreak:\r\n<cite>And unfortunately there's no alternative.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    features need to be added to Quark Xpress 9 or Microsoft Publisher 2013 before
    they could become alternatives?\r\n\r\nOr even (gasp) Scribus?\r\n\r\nEDIT: It
    should be noted, though, that I am well aware that for people with deadlines to
    meet and real work to get done, often nothing less than the best will do. In the
    case of Scribus, the lack of full Pantone support (there are workarounds, apparently,
    but they're imperfect) due to licensing considerations may be fatal."
  created: '2013-05-07 12:29:04'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Since OpenType Stylistic Sets weren't supported in <em>Word Pad</em>, I questioned
    the usefulness of the feature. However, I assumed that if this font feature was
    \"real\", at least it would be supported in Microsoft Word, and anything else
    above a minimal word processor.\r\n\r\nThat they aren't supported even in major
    DTP applications is a serious matter indeed.\r\n\r\nEDIT: A quick web search turns
    up the fact that Microsoft does claim Word supports stylistic sets. As well, I
    turned up the page\r\n\r\n[[https://www.typotheque.com/fonts/opentype_feature_support]]\r\n\r\nbut
    even though I'm not red-green color blind, I still do not find that page's design
    very useful."
  created: '2013-05-07 12:36:21'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<blockquote>There is no way to keep both even spacing and the same line breaks
    when you edit text.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTheunis \u2014 I think you misunderstood
    Charles\u2019s complaint [emphasis added]: \r\n\r\n<blockquote>[Charles:] I get
    so tired of InDesign not breaking the <em>exact same text</em> the same way in
    different proof stages.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nInDesign has a nasty habit of occasionally
    recalculating line breaks on a paragraph in which there has been *no* editorial
    change, under certain [mysterious] circumstances.\r\n\r\nThat is the issue \u2014
    not entire paragraph composition, but willy-nilly paragraph re-composition.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-07 12:47:42'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "<em>>With creative cloud, you still have to download and install the software.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    seems to be true. This isn\u2019t cloud software at all but rather simply a subscription
    model, which is a bit of a relief. The Adobe CEO clarifies a bit:\r\n\r\n[[http://mashable.com/2013/05/06/adobe-ceo-interview-creative-cloud|http://mashable.com/2013/05/06/adobe-ceo-interview-creative-cloud/]]\r\n\r\n\u201C[The
    Adobe CEO] insists that the cost for Adobe CC is now lower for \u2018any customer.\u2019
    Those costs are now more predictable, he added.\u201D\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s simply
    not true. I, along with most designers I know, only upgrade when necessary. I
    skipped CS4 and CS5 before moving to CS6, and even that upgrade was more of a
    convenience than a necessity. While he says it\u2019s not, this move by Adobe
    is all about the money and will ultimately cost me a lot more. I do see a silver
    lining with that though; it will cull the hobbyists from the market. \r\n\r\n<em>>What
    features need to be added to Quark Xpress 9 or Microsoft Publisher 2013 before
    they could become alternatives?</em>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s a very steep hill to climb.
    Adobe has done a masterful job of creating  brilliant software products while
    at the same time eliminating competition. The purchase of Macromedia to kill Freehand
    and the creation of InDesign to kill Quark were major coups. What stands out more
    than anything is the integration of product features. Quark and/or Publisher would
    need to integrate with fully featured vector and raster editors such as Photoshop
    and Illustrator. They would need a ubiquitous file format for export like Adobe\u2019s
    PDF.  There\u2019s also the learning curve. I\u2019ve learned and forgotten multiple
    versions of PageMaker, Quark, Freehand, etc. The switch to new software is a serious
    drain on my increasingly limited cognitive resources. \r\n\r\nThat\u2019s the
    rub. Adobe wouldn\u2019t dare do this move to the subscription model if there
    was a valid competing software product. They are being a bully because they know
    there\u2019s no one to lose marketshare to. \r\n"
  created: '2013-05-07 14:59:37'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: ">>That\u2019s a very steep hill to climb. Adobe has done a masterful job
    of creating brilliant software products\r\n\r\nWell, yes & no. At it's core, InDesign
    is just a bunch of modules, some of which Adobe subcontracted out. Probably one
    reason for all the (unfixed) bugs."
  created: '2013-05-07 15:09:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A cloudy future as Adobe is becoming Quark.  Absolute power corrupts absolutely.\r\nAdobe
    has no incentive whatsoever to either create any really useful new features or
    fix the mess they have already made of InD.  They can now just sit on their as\xDF
    and rake in dough.  \r\nAs for working well with the rest of their suite, I ain't
    buyin' it."
  created: '2013-05-07 15:22:25'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>InDesign has a nasty habit of occasionally recalculating line
    breaks on a paragraph in which there has been *no* editorial change, under certain
    [mysterious] circumstances.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes. You learn to look at potential
    trouble spots -- across page boundaries (text frames), wraparounds, etc., but
    it can occur anywhere, anytime.\r\n\r\nI had one recently, about a 5-line paragraph,
    middle of the page, where an editor changed (say) the words *if only* to *only
    if*. This in the middle of a line, in the middle of the paragraph. InDesign recomposed
    the paragraph, making different hyphenation decisions. But at least it happened
    in a paragraph being worked on.\r\n\r\nMy guess is what will increase with upgrades
    is \"features,\" not bug fixes. The thing about \"features\" is one group -- say
    book compositors -- doesn't give a hoot (not my chosen word), but the complexity
    of the program grows, and at some point, the program stops working correctly.
    Here's another one from CS6: After you use \"fit frame to content\" a number of
    times in a document, it stops working. Rebooting doesn't help, it's just a gone
    feature in that document from then on.\r\n\r\n* * *\r\n\r\nAs to the cloud-based
    system, perhaps some of our concerns are not relevant. This from my business partner,
    who understands such things\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I don't think the switch is going
    to change anything. Last year, they stopped selling upgrades in boxes and I had
    to buy/download online. Now they have discarded the idea of upgrades altogether.\r\n\r\nWith
    creative cloud, you still have to download and install the software. You still
    have to update, which now includes feature upgrades as well (I expect, kind of
    like Gmail, when things would change from time to time).</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSo,
    Adobe gets rid of any shipping costs, and regularizes their revenue stream. A
    real bummer for someone who just spent $700 buying a new copy, though. And for
    those of us who like to pay once, with a check...\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-07 15:36:44'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I used Quark for many years and liked it, but I've never regretted switching
    to InDesign. I felt it was superior many ways, and the integration with other
    Creative Suite modules is a real timesaver (for example I can place native, layered
    PhotoShop files directly into my InDesign layouts). \r\n\r\nAnother factor is
    that InDesign has become the standard among designers. When I work on collaborative
    projects or when clients send me files, it's never a Quark file anymore, it's
    InDesign.\r\n\r\nQuark really opened the door for the competition. I remember
    the days when users would complain bitterly about Quark's terrible customer service.
    \r\n\r\nFor better or worse, the cloud is the future. CD drives are disappearing
    the way floppy disk drives did.\r\n "
  created: '2013-05-07 17:52:50'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "<blockquote>InDesign has a nasty habit of occasionally recalculating line
    breaks on a paragraph in which there has been *no* editorial change, under certain
    [mysterious] circumstances.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI suspect (La)TeX may do the same
    due to the \u201Cpenalties\u201D taking into account orphans/widows.  So when
    a page boundary is sliding over an unchanged paragraph, the line breaks in this
    paragraph may change (due to widows/orphans being avoided before/after the slide).\r\n\r\n<strong>Edited:</strong>
    There may be other, more subtle, issues affecting line break in unedited paragraphs:
    a reference to another page may change from \u201Con p.9\u201D to \u201Con p.10\u201D;
    likewise for fonts with digits having different widths; likewise for footnote
    numbers which may change width (and the footnote number can change from 4 to 1
    if the paragraph migrates to the beginning of page).\r\n\r\nAnd why mentioning
    XeTeX?  IIRC, it is dead for a long time (at least it was a couple of years ago).
    \ Hmm, checking http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Xetex, they (re)started the development\u2026
    \u2014 which is in a certain sense a pity, since one must decide again whether
    to use XeTeX or LuaTeX for a project \u2014 the bugs are not shared between the
    engines\u2026"
  created: '2013-05-07 22:20:19'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "No \"La\" for me. We used a version of plain TeX for about 20 years, to set
    all manner of scholarly books, none of them mathematical. Most in the humanities
    fields. \r\n\r\nIn part, what stopped our use of TeX was the complexity of the
    program; mostly, it was the difficulties with color management.\r\n\r\nGo read
    the patent Adobe got for their \"new\" paragraph composer. & if you can find it,
    read Don Knuth's observation on the merits of granting that patent... Well, he's
    a kind, charitable man..."
  created: '2013-05-07 22:42:40'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@charles ellerton:\r\n<cite>A real bummer for someone who just spent $700
    buying a new copy, though.</cite>\r\n\r\nAren't they the lucky ones, because they
    can use it forever? It's not like existing copies will stop working.\r\n\r\n@BlueStreak:\r\n<cite>I
    do see a silver lining with that though; it will cull the hobbyists from the market.
    </cite>\r\n\r\nWhy is that a <em>good</em> thing?"
  created: '2013-05-08 00:47:33'
- author:
    name: apetickler
    picture: 112298
  body: "I\u2019m not sure Adobe has all the advantages people assume.\r\n\r\nI mean,
    as far as integration goes, you can change layer composition when placing Photoshop
    documents into InDesign, but that\u2019s pretty much the big one. You can\u2019t
    even place an Illustrator document in another application unless the .ai file
    contains a full PDF copy of the same document.\r\n\r\nAlso, the timing of this
    switch seems kind of risky, since the possibility of some critical mass of people
    switching to mobile operating systems on a full-time basis appears more and more
    plausible (it even seems weird that we\u2019re still calling them \u201Cmobile
    operating systems\u201D), and nobody owns that market yet."
  created: '2013-05-08 00:48:43'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> the possibility of some critical mass of people switching \r\n> to mobile
    operating systems on a full-time basis appears \r\n> more and more plausible\r\n\r\nThat's
    definitely happening with consumers; there's a big-time switch to using smart
    phones and tablets rather than PCs. Because things like checking email and Facebook,
    surfing the internet, playing games, etc. works just fine on mobile devices. \r\n\r\nBut
    in the business world it's a little different. Certainly mobile devices are used
    more and more, but there are certain jobs (like page layout, photo retouching,
    etc) where a computer's big monitor, high-powered processor, big hard drive, and
    the precision control of a mouse are still needed. At least for now."
  created: '2013-05-08 03:16:07'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "I don't really care either way ...it's a business expense that is 100% deductible.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    it won't diminish the amount of horrible graphic designers who pollute the graphic
    design industry year-in year-out.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 03:53:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>I don't really care either way ...it's business expense that
    is 100% deductible.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSo? \r\n\r\nDo the math. The only way
    the added costs don't affect your return on assets is if the increased asset cost
    results in increased net revenue (or your tax rate is 100%)."
  created: '2013-05-08 04:09:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "When I \uFB01rst heard about this sort of computing, maybe 20 years ago,
    I assumed that the beauty of it would be that one might only choose to use an
    individual module, rather than a massive application, for a short period of time.\r\n\r\nMicro
    payment.\r\n\r\nSo if I don't use Tables or Effects or pathfinder, I don\u2019t
    have to pay for that stuff.\r\n\r\nAnd the idea was that the type layout engine
    is the same in Photoshop, Illustrator, and InDesign, so why pay for it thrice?\r\n\r\nSurely
    that is the way it should be with cloud computing, not \u201Cnegative option billing\u201D
    where you have to pay every month for what you never use. Netflix, pay on demand.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder if subscription services are an interim step before we get to full only-pay-for-what-you-use,
    and whether the market will evolve to drive this rental model out."
  created: '2013-05-08 04:24:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Another thing that stinks to high heaven on a mobile device is typing (and
    I don't mean \"wats 4 dnr\").\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 06:05:32'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Individual app subscriptions are available for $20 a month; subscribing to
    the entire suite will be $50 a month. \r\n\r\nPeople who own CS3 (or newer) get
    a discount and can subscribe to the entire suite for $30 a month for the 1st year.\r\n\r\nFor
    pros who are used to buying the newest versions whenever they come out, this new
    pricing system will actually save them money. But for folks who only updated occasionally
    in the past, this new system may be more expensive."
  created: '2013-05-08 06:05:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yet again I'm nicely reminded how much more I prefer making fonts to using
    fonts...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 06:07:19'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@charles ellerton:\r\n<cite>Go read the patent Adobe got for their \"new\"
    paragraph composer.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat would be U. S. patent 6510441."
  created: '2013-05-08 11:43:18'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "<em>I said, \"I do see a silver lining with that though; it will cull the
    hobbyists from the market.\"</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Quadibloc asked, \"Why is that a
    good thing?\"</em>\r\n\r\nI see it as a good thing when people who want to use
    professional software, and call themselves professional, have to invest in the
    professional resources to do so. \r\n\r\nBack in the days of rubylith, wax, and
    photo-lettering, people didn\u2019t dabble in graphic design. That\u2019s not
    to say that graphic design back then was better. It wasn\u2019t. The abilities
    brought by  software like Adobe\u2019s Creative Suite have dramatically improved
    the possibilities and results of graphic design. However, it was strictly a professional
    endeavor back then. There wasn\u2019t much in the way of hacking around on a whim
    and calling it professional graphic design. \r\n\r\nI see far more hack work these
    days. As it is now, I\u2019ve seen way too many people who wound up with professional
    software with little or no expense and instantly declare themselves graphic designers
    \u2014 just based on possession of the software. I have too many stories of how
    that\u2019s diminished our business to list here. Adobe\u2019s move to the subscription
    model will ultimately cost me more, but will put an end to those dabblers. It\u2019s
    put up or shut up mode from here on out. You either put up the monthly fee knowing
    you\u2019ll get the return, or you stay out of professional graphic design and
    leave it to the pros. \r\n\r\nIs that a bad thing?\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 12:58:50'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>I see it as a good thing when people who want to use professional
    software, and call themselves professional, have to invest in the professional
    resources to do so.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNone of which would guarantee 'professional'
    work, whatever that means. There is a lot of poor design work out there, both
    sloppy and uninspired, which is likely to continue unabated as long as commercial
    appetites (and the internet) exist as a platform for it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 13:34:24'
- author:
    name: BlueStreak
    picture: 111058
  body: "My point is that in the old days when I dropped off logo slicks to a client,
    the secretary didn\u2019t have a set of Rotring technical pens, french curves,
    and triangles in her desk drawer to tinker with my work. As it is now, she has
    an old version of Illustrator and feels compelled to tinker with my work before
    I\u2019ve left the parking lot. These people don\u2019t make their livelihood
    from design, don\u2019t invest the time to learn the tools and techniques, yet
    have the impression that access to the tools alone is all that matters to be a
    professional designer. It wasn\u2019t that way with pen and ink. That impression
    has become pervasive and has become a chore to counter. \r\n\r\nIt seems to me
    that in time the subscription mode for high-end design tools will eventually limit
    access to those willing to dedicate the time and resources needed to adequately
    learn the tools and techniques, i.e., people who spend all day, every day, making
    their livelihood from design. I see that as a good thing for the graphic design
    profession. \r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 15:23:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Does this help fight piracy?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 16:30:08'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I see your point, BlueStreak, and agree with it up to a point. But the Creative
    Suite wasn't exactly cheap before this happened. Someone buying their first copy
    (rather than upgrading) of InDesign CS6 at Amazon will spend $630; the master
    collection costs over $2,000. \r\n\r\nCompare that to subscribing to InDesign
    for $20 a month, or the entire suite for $50 a month.\r\n\r\nWill it stop some
    amateurs from using these products? Yes, maybe. But to many businesses $50 a month
    is pocket change.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-08 16:31:56'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: '@BlueStreak. Maybe this will stop amateur tweaking of your files,  but this
    won''t stop clients from sending you cr@p from low end software. Many times such
    files are are completely unusable, making it impossible to import into your high
    end software even if you need to. But then, I get the same kind of cr@p from professionals,
    so I don''t notice the difference.'
  created: '2013-05-08 17:15:19'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Vent your discord by signing this online petition:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.change.org/petitions/adobe-systems-incorporated-eliminate-the-mandatory-creative-cloud-subscription-model"
  created: '2013-05-08 17:21:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "BlueStreak wrote: \u201CThe purchase of Macromedia to kill Freehand....\u201D\r\n\r\nThat
    was not a major goal of Adobe\u2019s Macromedia acquisition. It was first and
    foremost about Flash, and secondarily about Dreamweaver and other web stuff."
  created: '2013-05-08 19:29:12'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "<blockquote>For pros who are used to buying the newest versions whenever
    they come out, this new pricing system will actually save them money. But for
    folks who only updated occasionally in the past, this new system may be more expensive.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    for those who were licensing every version of the Master Collection. But I suspect
    most CS users are using a subset suite. As a Design Standard user, the subscription
    model would roughly triple my costs over upgrading the suite every 18-24 months.
    I can't see much point in coughing up the extra money; it's not like they've been
    improving the software much in recent years."
  created: '2013-05-08 20:06:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "But why do you need to subscribe with a regular fee?\r\nWhy can\u2019t you
    just use as much of it as you need for as long as you need that?"
  created: '2013-05-08 20:30:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I've not read the entire thread but someone asked about OpenType Stylistic
    Sets. These are indeed accessible in Word, Outlook and Publisher, but the UI only
    lets you apply one at a time making them less that ideal for most professional
    fonts. However, John Hudson's Gabriola font was in part commissioned to highlight
    this feature of Office. \r\n\r\nAs for OpenType support in general your standard
    web browser has infinitely better OpenType support than and DTP or word processing
    product. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2013-05-08 21:25:21'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>Does this help fight piracy?</cite>\r\n\r\nOh, definitely.
    If your software is on your servers, it can hardly be copied.\r\n\r\nIt prevents
    piracy. It prevents cheapskates from using old software they did pay for, but
    never upgraded. It keeps the revenue flowing in to an extent that is something
    to behold.\r\n\r\nIt's just money, money, money until Quark decides to improve
    their product enough to be able to take advantage of this potential market opportunity
    for someone less greedy."
  created: '2013-05-08 22:12:30'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "@Quadibloc: Not sure if this is what you were implying, but the Creative
    Cloud apps aren't housed in the cloud. You download them to your machine, where
    they run like their predecessors did. The difference is that the CC apps check
    with the Adobe mothership once a month to make sure you're a user in good standing.
    Contract's up? Software won't run. \r\n\r\nNot knowing how software is \"cracked\"
    these days, I have no idea whether that'll reduce piracy, though."
  created: '2013-05-09 00:55:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[to follow]'
  created: '2013-05-09 03:56:56'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>It prevents cheapskates from using old software they did pay
    for, but never upgraded. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nReally? How? Believe my old ID-CS4
    will keep right on working (as well as it ever did). Even the CS6 bought on a
    DVD..."
  created: '2013-05-09 04:01:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm sorry, but what's this \"too greedy\" business? Adobe has worked hard
    to get to this point by playing by the rules of our Capitalist society. It's a
    publicly-owned company for chrissake - what should we expect? If you don't like
    what they're doing, complain about the <em>system</em> instead of demonizing individual
    entities.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-09 04:14:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\nMaximizing profits is indeed a responsibility companies have to
    their shareholders.\r\n\r\nHowever, the system as it stands now does include antitrust
    laws, so monopolies are frowned upon.\r\n\r\nAnd, despite the limitations of Quark
    - and the efforts it will have to make to address its <em>own</em> reputation
    with users - Adobe doesn't even really <em>have</em> a monopoly. So they may have
    behaved... injudiciously... which need not necessarily be of benefit to shareholders.\r\n\r\nThus,
    rather than advocating the overthrow of the capitalist system, I think it will
    be sufficient for consumers to aggressively explore alternatives to their products.
    If this leads to Adobe requiring the use of Chapter 11 soon, this will encourage
    Microsoft not to abandon Microsoft Office in favor of Office 365.\r\n\r\n@marcox:\r\nMy
    mistake, I wasn't aware of the details of their means of implementing SaaS.\r\n\r\n@charles
    ellertson:\r\nYes, it doesn't stop existing cheapskates, but it prevents new ones
    from starting."
  created: '2013-05-09 11:38:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>Maximizing profits is indeed a responsibility companies have
    to their shareholders.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe nightsoil of a large and well fed
    male ox. \r\n\r\nYou have to consider the timeframe of \"profitability\" as well.
    Most mutual fund managers interest is short term. They are in business to get
    management fees, and they get those by appearing to do better than indexed funds.
    So, their interests are short term, they are continually buying and selling companies
    stock, passing the well-hidden costs on to <cite>their</cite> consumers. Just
    like advertising.\r\n\r\nUsually, the company's job is to remain profitable over
    the long haul. What becomes interesting -- theoretically -- is when institutional
    investors own more than 50% of the stock. Is the 6-month profitability then a
    larger responsibility than the survival of the company?\r\n\r\n And do you really
    care about the answer? If not, stop using such nonsense sayings."
  created: '2013-05-09 13:55:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@charles ellertson:\r\n<cite>If not, stop using such nonsense sayings.</cite>\r\n\r\nNote
    the context: I was specifically responding to the post by Hrant Papazian above
    mine. So, I was simply admitting his basic point for the sake of argument - not
    attempting to make a detailed statement about what is the optimum method for a
    corporation to provide ROI to its shareholders."
  created: '2013-05-09 17:46:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>it will be sufficient for consumers to aggressively explore alternatives
    to their products.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBut that still costs the <em>consumer</em>
    time/money...\r\n\r\nTrying to be <em>relatively</em> realistic here, I think
    one viable way to attenuate damage from Capitalism (because that's really all
    we're doing with things like anti-trust laws) is to ban public ownership of companies
    (or at least limit it to less than 50%). When the owner of something only cares
    about the money it brings, with no effective concern for what it brings to society,
    it can only hurt the long-term viability of a society. Here's a specific example
    from our world: when Multiple Master technology couldn't be a cash cow, it got
    axed; it could have made some money if targeted to a niche (at a higher price),
    but it couldn't make enough money fast enough for shareholders to be able to buy
    their yachts <em>now,</em> dammit! Culture lost out.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-09 17:58:42'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "Nowadays there are fairly good and cheaper alternatives to Photoshop, Illustrator
    and Acrobat, especially on Mac. But in desktop publishing realm we still have
    just InDesign or Quark to choose. Anyway, there are some applications which could
    improve and take  customers from ID/QX.\r\n\r\nI suggest typophiles to try or
    at least follow the development of: Nisus Scriber, Mellel, Scribus, iCalamus,
    iStudio Publisher, Cenon and Swift Publisher. In a near future, maybe some of
    these could face ID in specific niches (I am somewhat otimistic about the first
    two)."
  created: '2013-05-09 20:18:25'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=67Iw9q2X9cU\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2013-05-09 21:08:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>to ban public ownership of companies (or at least limit
    it to less than 50%)</cite>\r\n\r\nWhile I don't want to derail this thread into
    a political discussion, I do need to note here why this is a completely unrealistic
    suggestion, however meritorious it may seem.\r\n\r\nThe reason we have laws that
    create things like limited liability corporations is because nations needed to
    foster the growth of large enterprises that could build larger wooden sailing
    ships than those available to other nations. Flash forward from the rivalry between
    Britain and Holland to the present day of tanks, airplanes, submarines, and intercontinental
    ballistic missiles and the nuclear warheads that adorn them, and you can see why
    anything that throttled corporate growth would be perceived as conflicting with
    national survival."
  created: '2013-05-09 23:21:04'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Quadibloc -- you really need to understand return on assets (ROA). Much better
    tool than ROI.\r\n\r\nSee, for example,\r\n\r\nhttp://wikibon.org/wiki/v/Comparing_Return_on_Assets_%28ROA%29_to_Return_on_Investment_%28ROI%29"
  children:
  - author:
      name: quadibloc
      picture: 118515
    body: "@charles ellertson:\r\n\r\nAlthough I'm not a professional investor, and
      thus some of that article you pointed to goes over my head, I do agree that
      return on assets is a very fundamental measure.\r\n\r\nIf I'm setting up a small
      business - say a fast food restaurant - return on assets is really what I'm
      interested in, although it likely will be the same as ROI. Of course, though,
      how much of my own hard work goes into the business for each dollar I make will
      also matter.\r\n\r\nSo in the case of a company like IBM or Apple, return on
      assets says how profitable the company is in the \"real world\", while ROI is
      pushed up or down by the effect of the whims of the stock market on share price.\r\n\r\nBut
      if I'm playing the stock market, those whims affect me; ROA is a fundamental
      which guides me to the long-term value of an investment, but ROI is my direct
      goal.\r\n\r\nAs it happens, I've been trying to find out what the Greek version
      of the Baudot/Murray/ITA-2/5-level teletype code is... and that led me to find
      out that the Greek telecommunications company OTE is in jeopardy, despite being
      profitable and well managed - because it has the misfortune of being located
      in a country whose people may end up not being able to afford to pay their phone
      bills (the impact of the Greek financial situation on them is actually more
      complicated than that, this is a gross oversimplification) - and so we see that
      the markets are not \"fair\", even if they are in one sense the most fair thing
      there is. "
    created: '2013-05-10 04:04:30'
  created: '2013-05-09 23:33:39'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "^^ perfect time for a merging of Gimp/Inkscape/ and one of the above having
    all offered as a open source high quality design suite.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-10 07:07:19'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Albert, to answer your question: No, as of v9.5.1, Quark still doesn\u2019t
    give access to Stylistic Sets.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Character Attributes
    in Quark 9_4823.5.1.1.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Glyphs in Quark
    9_4262.5.1.1.png]"
  created: '2013-05-10 07:51:00'
date: '2013-05-06 21:54:06'
node_type: forum
title: Adobe CS goes cloud only

---
