---
author:
  name: ycherem
body: "I find myself in a situation in which I can prescribe rules for students writing
  final undergraduate essays. I have considered not mentioning formatting or typographical
  rules, or refer to the library's rules (always an interpretation of the pervasive
  nation-wide rules). I find both options unappealing, because the former leaves too
  much room for error (and random ugliness) and the latter is too strict and dull
  (a pattern of bad taste).\r\n\r\nDo you think I should just let it be, or that I
  could establish some pretty wide parameters (or a compromise solution)? Or determine
  that the supervisor might adjust the formatting if need be?\r\n\r\nIf yes, what
  are some sensible and generic requirements I can establish?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Herry Terry-spammer
  body: Academic Essay Topic is really awesome i just seem information detail.. <a
    href="http://www.essaylounge.com/">essay writing help</a>
  created: '2013-06-07 07:00:03'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Let's see if I understand. You apparently have the authority -- the power
    -- to impose certain conditions.\r\n\r\nBased on your questions on Typophile (http://typophile.com/user/46458),
    that authority does not seem to be derived from knowledge. That leaves, I suppose,
    the academic equivalent of Mao's barrel of a gun. Are you asking us if you should
    use your guns?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-10 01:09:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Charles:\r\n1) What specific things has Youssef said in the past that make
    you think he's ignorant?\r\n2) Maybe asking for opinions/ideas indicates an open-minded
    desire to learn more. I know at least one other person who would benefit from
    such an attitude...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-10 01:24:10'
- author:
    name: ycherem
  body: "@charles,\r\n\r\nIt's the second time you bug me with questions of my previous
    posts. I agree that discussions on typophile may get heated, but demeaning other
    people's desire to learn is unacceptable. I was only asking for advice, and you
    are not qualified to judge my knowledge of anything whatsoever.\r\n\r\n\"Quem
    fala o que quer, escuta o que n\xE3o quer\": e se for julgar os seus posts, eu
    tamb\xE9m diria: \"Quando um burro fala, o outro abaixa a orelha\"."
  created: '2013-05-10 02:19:59'
- author:
    name: S.Olsen
    picture: 126574
  body: "Certainly an odd situation.\r\n\r\nIf I were you I\u2019d reference the Chicago
    Manual of Style and take what you will from there. \r\n\r\nAs an undergraduate
    student myself, most professors don\u2019t worry much about typographic correctness\u2014the
    focus is on more general style laws such as correct quoting and citing. \r\n\r\nSimply
    pick an appropriate style, such as MLA or APA, and tell the students to follow
    that.\r\n\r\nUnless it is a paper on typography or design, then of course be sure
    to look for good leading, em/en dashes, correct curly quotes, etc.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-10 02:29:53'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Assuming that one of the purposes of education is to prepare students for
    later life, it would be advisable to encourage students to adopt a style which
    will meet recognized objective standards of good form, rather than your personal
    opinion of what constitutes same.\r\n\r\nTo this end, I humbly suggest that you
    consult the Chicago Manual of Style, and apply it rigorously."
  created: '2013-05-10 02:29:55'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "Variations on this question come up a lot, and I think they often result
    from a misunderstanding of what typography actually is, which is the design of
    a finished text for publishing or distributing. There is manuscript formatting
    (<em>typing</em>), which is practiced by authors; and then there is design (<em>typography</em>),
    which is practiced by typographers, typesetters, and graphic designers.\r\n\r\nAn
    academic essay should follow some standard <em>manuscript format</em>, which is
    completely different from the design of a well typeset published text. \"Ugliness\"
    would not be a concern of mine in this situation \u2014 not until one of these
    essays goes to press in a journal. Then I would care.\r\n\r\nIn an academic setting,
    papers should be double-spaced with 1 inch margins in some boring old normal font
    on 8.5 x 11 paper. This is a vaguely old-fashioned view and not everyone will
    agree with it, but I would not encourage students to \"design\" manuscripts. Leave
    that to the book designer whose hands the manuscript eventually winds up in.\r\n\r\nAs
    has been said above, if this is actually a design class, all that goes out the
    window."
  created: '2013-05-11 04:42:30'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "<em>[sorry for the non-English answer, but I am focusing some issues very
    specific to Brazilian academic norms, known as \u201CABNT rules\u201D, and it
    would need somewhat longer English explanations to make sense for other typophiles.]</em>\r\n\r\nYoussef,
    entendo sua preocupa\xE7\xE3o porque tamb\xE9m n\xE3o gosto das normas da ABNT.
    Elas j\xE1 eram ruins antes e ficaram ainda piores com a atualiza\xE7\xE3o de
    2002-2003. Tenho certeza que ningu\xE9m na ABNT conhece um m\xEDnimo de tipografia
    ou editora\xE7\xE3o, mas ainda assim determinam como milhares de estudantes t\xEAm
    de formatar seus trabalhos.\r\n\r\nJ\xE1 o manual de Chicago \xE9 uma refer\xEAncia
    mais ou menos universal e muito bem feita, muito superior \xE0 ABNT. O problema
    \xE9 que os estudantes j\xE1 t\xEAm dificuldade para aplicar as normas da ABNT
    e n\xE3o acho que trocar um conjunto de regras por outro v\xE1 ajudar no seu caso.
    Mesmo que houvesse uma vers\xE3o traduzida e simplificada das normas de Chicago,
    creio que isso s\xF3 confundiria os acad\xEAmicos. Al\xE9m disso, certos aspectos
    do sistema americano s\xE3o bem estranhos para os nossos h\xE1bitos.\r\n\r\nO
    que eu faria no seu caso seria editar um desses manuais que as faculdades fornecem
    sobre as normas da ABNT usadas pela institui\xE7\xE3o. Removeria todas as regras
    e detalhes excessivamente r\xEDgidos e desnecess\xE1rios, fazendo uma orienta\xE7\xE3o
    simples. Exemplo: a entrelinha com espa\xE7amento duplo \xE9 uma aberra\xE7\xE3o,
    resqu\xEDcio das m\xE1quinas de escrever e de quando o professor anotava as corre\xE7\xF5es
    no espa\xE7o <em>entre</em> as linhas. Hoje, o professor n\xE3o est\xE1 limitado
    \xE0s linhas em branco, pode mandar observa\xE7\xF5es por email ou mesmo colocar
    notas diretamente no arquivo digital, em cor ou tipo diferente. Assim, a entrelinha
    dupla pode (e deve) ser dispensada.\r\n\r\nPor outro lado, acrescentaria algumas
    regras tipogr\xE1ficas flex\xEDveis. Por exemplo: quanto \xE0s fontes, orientar
    o uso de apenas uma serifada em todo documento ou uma serifada nos textos em geral
    e uma n\xE3o serifada nos t\xEDtulos e subt\xEDtulos, apresentando uma lista de
    fontes a escolher (j\xE1 que dificilmente o pessoa saberia o que \xE9 \u201Cserifada\u201D).
    Quanto \xE0 separa\xE7\xE3o sil\xE1bica, reiterar que ela deve ser usada. Quanto
    ao alinhamento, usar o justificado no texto em geral, mas permitir o centralizado
    em t\xEDtulos e subt\xEDtulos. Coisas assim.\r\n\r\nFicaria ainda melhor se no
    manual voc\xEA inclu\xEDsse breves notas explicando porque determinado crit\xE9rio
    deve ser observado. Por exemplo: a fonte serifada \xE9 melhor para leitura imersiva
    porque as letras s\xE3o melhor diferenciadas e a vis\xE3o, que se cansa com a
    leitura, \xE9 favorecida quando n\xE3o \xE9 preciso fazer esfor\xE7o para distinguir
    um n de um ri ou um l de u I (problemas t\xEDpicos das n\xE3o serifadas). Assim,
    os alunos s\xE3o seguiriam as regras apenas porque o professor determinou, mas
    adeririam a elas porque h\xE1 um motivo l\xF3gico para serem adotadas.\r\n\r\nAproveitando
    o exemplo da entrelinha: se o espa\xE7o duplo \xE9 horrendo e prejudicial \xE0
    leitura (um texto visualmente rarefeito contraria o fluxo de aten\xE7\xE3o), tampouco
    \xE9 adequado usar linhas muito estreitas. Basta lembrar aos alunos quantas vezes
    eles j\xE1 n\xE3o estavam lendo um jornal ou revista e, ao terminar a linha, seus
    olhos recome\xE7aram a ler a mesma linha e n\xE3o a seguinte. Isso indica entrelinha
    muito apertada, coisa t\xEDpica de jornais, e deve ser evitada com uma folga,
    usualmente de 20% da altura do texto. Um explica\xE7\xE3o dessas seria um alento
    para a nossa educa\xE7\xE3o.\r\n\r\nQuanto ao sujeito que respondeu de maneira
    grosseira, o melhor \xE9 ignor\xE1-lo. N\xE3o \xE9 de hoje que a criatura em quest\xE3o
    tumultua as discuss\xF5es por aqui. Felizmente, h\xE1 muitas pessoas com conhecimento
    e educa\xE7\xE3o e com essas eu sempre aprendo bastante. Se voc\xEA achar que
    posso ajudar de alguma outra forma, basta escrever para contato arroba if ponto
    pro ponto br."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ycherem
    body: '@Igor, Thanks a lot for your attention, I appreciate it. It''s just those
      simple (and simplifying) rules I had thought about. Just making the students
      lives <em>easier</em>, I guess. I didn''t intend to change one set of rules
      for another, and in a way I''m sort of "forced" to teach formatting (something
      I''ve been trying to avoid). And thanks for remembering hyphenation, leading,  suggest
      serifs for body text and the small explanations about the reason for all those
      things. '
    created: '2013-05-12 02:37:11'
  created: '2013-05-11 17:53:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>In an academic setting, papers should be double-spaced with 1 inch margins
    in some boring old normal font on 8.5 x 11 paper. This is a vaguely old-fashioned
    view and not everyone will agree with it...</em>\r\n\r\nI agree with the notion
    that there should typically be a standard format for all submissions, required
    by whomever is receiving them and will be marking them. This is a simple expedient
    for ensuring that all students have conformed to the length requirement of the
    submission.* But I also think that this standard format should serve some functional
    purpose relative to how it will be handled. The old 'double-spaced with 1 inch
    margins' format is, as Joshua suggests, related to manuscript submission requirements
    for publication, so in the context of academia was a good way to condition graduate
    students to producing such manuscripts. The format is designed to enable copy
    editing between the lines of text. It was introduced in the context of typewriter
    copy, however, and ignores the ease with which computer documents are reformatted
    these days. So I think it is entirely reasonable for a teacher to consider different
    formats, but this should be done not in in terms of ugliness or beauty, but in
    terms of usefulness. How does the teacher intend to engage with the document?
    Will he or she be marking grammatical and other textual problems? If so, there
    remains some merit in the double-spaced requirement, since what the teacher will
    be doing is akin to copy editing. But these days how many teachers regularly mark
    student submissions in this way (how many, frankly, are qualified to do so)? If
    the kind of written feedback a teacher provides addresses content, then a wider
    margin on one side is going to be more useful than double-spacing."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ycherem
    body: "@John, I agree I should think about usefulness. On the other hand, many
      \"manuals\" of style I've come across don't follow their own rules. It's hard
      to be consistent -- especially when people are trying to focus on content --
      but typographical inconsistencies tend to distract the reader. \r\n\r\nI guess
      an option of 1,5 spacing or 20%+ leading would be sensible, or am I off the
      mark here?\r\n\r\nWhile I must confess I (and some other people) do that grammar
      and textual revision, most don't. Many professors don't even check if it complies
      to the formatting rules, \"more or less\" is always accepted.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
      it's always a4 or letter paper, so I wonder if margins could be wider too (currently
      2cm right and bottom; 3cm left and superior)."
    created: '2013-05-12 02:51:57'
  created: '2013-05-11 19:04:15'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I had a look at the document <a href=\"http://humanas.unifesp.br/home/index.php/biblioteca/manual-de-normalizacao\">Manual
    de normaliza\xE7\xE3o</a> of the UNIFESP Guarulhos, dated 2012, and the suggested
    spacing is 1.5. \r\n<blockquote>\r\nO espa\xE7amento deve ser de 1,5 entre as
    linhas de todo o trabalho, exceto as partes a seguir [\u2026]\r\n</blockquote>\r\nWe
    have the same <a href=\"http://www.bib.umontreal.ca/theses/redaction.htm\">requirement
    at Universit\xE9 de Montr\xE9al</a> (follow the link for pdf, in French) and I
    am a bit surprised that many still mention 2 as the standard.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ycherem
    body: '@Michel, Yes, it''s 1.5. (It''s been like this as much as I can remeber,
      and many universities and publications follow this format.)'
    created: '2013-05-12 02:26:29'
  created: '2013-05-11 21:29:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '* It''s worth noting in the context of linespacing that most word processing
    software calculates this relative to font metrics, so 1.5 or 2 times single linespacing
    is going to vary depending on what font is used.'
  created: '2013-05-11 21:43:06'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "* It is worth noting that the same document (from the federal university
    of S\xE3o Paulo in Guarulhos) says\r\n<blockquote>\r\nOs textos devem ser digitados
    em fonte Arial ou Times New Roman, cor preta, tamanho 12.\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\"cor
    preta\" means \"black\", and \"tamanho 12\" mean \"size 12\" ... 12 points. Most
    readers can't tell the difference between Times New Roman and lots of serif fonts,
    but if the spacing is not chosen as the one given by Times, my guess is that it
    will be noticed."
  created: '2013-05-11 22:17:57'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>An academic essay should follow some standard manuscript format,
    which is completely different from the design of a well typeset published text.
    \"Ugliness\" would not be a concern of mine in this situation \u2014 not until
    one of these essays goes to press in a journal. Then I would care.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    notion of an academic *journal* is a strange one. I say this as someone who has
    both typeset a number of scholarly journals for an extended period of time --
    over ten years with some journals -- and as one who has designed them.\r\n\r\nThe
    difficulties arise with authors, and editors who have sense enough to recognize
    something special, and let it by.\r\n\r\nWithin the text, over that 10 years,
    you'll have prose extracts that contain within them subheads, verse extracts.
    lists -- whatever can be written can be quoted. In the current journal, what's
    the style for these elements?\r\n\r\nSomeone will occasionally think it important
    to have epigraphs to their subheads. \r\n\r\nYou'll have numbered lists within
    bulleted lists. Etc. \r\n\r\nEssentially, whatever complication anyone can think
    of will occur.\r\n\r\nChapter openings perforce contain an article title and author
    (or two or three or five). But some will use a subtitle, some an epigraph, and/or
    a dedication, and/or a text opening subhead -- and occasionally, all these elements
    -- usually when the title/subtitle is quite long and there are five authors...\r\n\r\nMany
    of the authors of such articles seem have the (today's) stature of Paul Samuelson;
    both good and famous. On both accounts, you don't say anything but yes, sir...\r\n\r\nOr:\r\nI
    set one legal journal that called a footnote is the first line of the article.
    I say footnote, as that's what was used, not end-of-article notes. That footnote
    went on for three typeset pages. The next note was called in the third line of
    the text. \r\n\r\nSo, after we all put our heads together, we set the article
    opening, two lines of text, then the called footnote for the next three pages,
    and only then the third line of the text (which called footnote 2) etc. In short,
    standard, but worrisome for all of that.\r\n\r\nNow the first point of all this
    is that the design of a journal better be simple, in order to be flexible.\r\n\r\nThe
    second point is there are articles where all these elements do turn out to be
    important; where the text is the better for their use. Of course not all of the
    articles, but enough to provide for their accommodation.\r\n\r\nSo, journals *design*
    is the hardest thing there is, because you cannot see, or even anticipate, all
    the elements to attend to.\r\n\r\nThe same, I would think, for student work, from
    doctoral dissertations on down. Good research & good writing are just that. You
    can penalize the overly flamboyant when that's all it is, but you shouldn't prohibit
    anything. One of the hard parts about being a teacher is recognizing the difference,
    especially with students doing upper level or graduate work. Yes, I've been there,
    I wasn't that good at it, and is one reason I didn't like teaching."
  created: '2013-05-12 02:38:02'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "\"Good research & good writing are just that. You can penalize the overly
    flamboyant when that's all it is, but you shouldn't prohibit anything.\"\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\nMy
    main point above was that the traditions and standards of manuscripts are different
    from those of published papers \u2014 but as long as a student understands the
    basic expectations of format, there's no reason they shouldn't adjust as necessary
    for their specific paper.\r\n\r\nAs a college student, I've recently written a
    paper in English that contained both Hebrew and IPA. I've written other papers
    that quoted Anglo-Saxon and included metrical stress notations and specialized
    poetry layouts for the sake of making a linguistic point. Sometimes I had to use
    something other than Times or some indent other than half an inch. But even as
    a fairly experienced typographer, I resist \"designing\" my academic papers more
    than is really necessary to make my argument. If I were designing them as part
    of a journal, they would look much different and more polished than they do for
    class."
  created: '2013-05-12 05:40:24'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "\"Good research & good writing are just that. You can penalize the overly
    flamboyant when that's all it is, but you shouldn't prohibit anything.\"\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\nMy
    main point above was that the traditions and standards of manuscripts are different
    from those of published papers \u2014 but as long as a student understands the
    basic expectations of format, there's no reason they shouldn't adjust as necessary
    for their specific paper.\r\n\r\nAs a college student, I've recently written a
    paper in English that contained both Hebrew and IPA. I've written other papers
    that quoted Anglo-Saxon and included metrical stress notations and specialized
    poetry layouts for the sake of making a linguistic point. Sometimes I had to use
    something other than Times or some indent other than half an inch. But even as
    a fairly experienced typographer, I resist \"designing\" my academic papers more
    than is really necessary to make my argument. If I were designing them as part
    of a journal, they would look much different and more polished than they do for
    class."
  created: '2013-05-12 05:40:25'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: 'For a thesis that departs from "boring" models, there is the LaTeX  <a href="http://www.latextemplates.com/template/classicthesis-typographic-thesis">Classic
    Thesis</a> class that comes installed with <a href="http://www.tug.org/texlive/">texlive</a>
    2012 (<a href="http://www.tug.org/mactex/">MacTeX</a>) ; the sources from the
    link <a href="http://www.latextemplates.com/template/classicthesis-typographic-thesis">Classic
    Thesis</a> compile directly with pdflatex.  '
  children:
  - author:
      name: ycherem
    body: "@Michel,\r\n\r\nClassic Thesis is great and I've tried it myself -- but
      for short articles.\r\nBut then I'd have to introduce them to Latex convince
      them of its benefits, which is a whole different matter.\r\nBut it would make
      it all easier: \"Know Latex? Use this and that. Period.\""
    created: '2013-05-12 16:21:23'
  created: '2013-05-12 14:21:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[to follow]'
  created: '2013-05-12 14:56:31'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "I agree with S.Olsen. Pick an established style such as MLA or APA and be
    done with it. It has the following benefits:\r\n\r\na) Saves you time. No need
    to develop your own style guides.\r\nb) Teaches your students a format that most
    journals will <strong>require</strong> manuscripts to be submitted in. They will
    most cartainly need to do this at some point in their academic career anyway.\r\nc)
    Safes future teachers time from having decode a unique typographic system out
    of a stack of similarly formatted papers\u2014should students continue to follow
    your unique guidelines."
  created: '2013-05-12 15:14:00'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Just a by-the-way... Manuscripts -- really, typescripts (now properly termed
    \"printouts\") -- submitted to publishers use to be double spaced to make the
    editor's job of \"pencil editing\" easier. (Also to get an approximate estimation
    of length, but a castoff is a different story.) \r\n\r\nAs everything with \"manuscripts\"
    has changed, I'd expect that over time, what is comfortable and familiar will
    change too, to accommodate new procedures, where the computer file is everything.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-12 16:33:32'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<blockquote>\r\nManuscripts -- really, typescripts (now properly termed \"printouts\")
    -- submitted to publishers [...] [Charles]\r\n</blockquote>\r\nI don't know what
    the practice is  in the humanities and social sciences; personally, I have not
    submitted a \"printout\" in a long time. What I have been submitting in the last
    10 years (and more) is LaTeX sources, relying on the LaTeX package suggested (required?)
    by the journal or the conference. Some publishers have their own package, for
    instance <a href=\"http://www.elsevier.com/author-schemas/preparing-documents-with-latex\">Elsevier</a>;
    have a look at some templates for <a href=\"http://www.latextemplates.com/cat/academic-journals\">academic
    journals</a>; on the example provided for elsarticle (Elsevier), lines are individually
    numbered; it would be crazy to do that manually. In my opinion, it is almost as
    crazy to spend time formatting footnotes for references and bibliography entries
    instead of using the software that does it in a systematic and coherent fashion.
    Students should be given the tools to work intelligently and efficiently."
  created: '2013-05-12 20:02:59'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>Students should be given the tools to work intelligently and
    efficiently.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\n Of the journals we set, all are
    in either the humanities or social sciences. I don't believe they would accept
    a \"manuscript\" in LaTex, as the editors would not be able to work on the files.\r\n\r\nWe've
    done some bookwork for presses who get in LaTex files  from time to time. There
    are people who can convert these to the format acceptable to the press, so we
    decline to set these -- Strictly based on economics, it would cost more for us
    to do the conversion than for someone set up to do that routinely.\r\n\r\nBut
    the point I was trying to make is that the look of any paper/thesis/dissertation
    -- double-spaced with such & such margins, had less to do with typography than
    with the mechanics of preparing a manuscript for eventual composition. As pencil
    editing is no longer the preferred method of editing,  what \"manuscripts\" should
    look like (and their for-practice precursors -- papers, theses, dissertations)
    , is a bit up in the air."
  created: '2013-05-12 21:50:51'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Charles\r\n\r\nI agree that the way a printout looks like can be quite irrelevant.
    Just changing a package in the preamble of a LaTeX  file can change completely
    the look without affecting at all the content of the output, just changing a word
    can replace a single column output by a two column output. \r\n\r\nHowever, for
    a final undergraduate essay, no professional editor will ever take it as a \"manuscript\";
    what the student sees is all he'll ever get.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-12 23:53:44'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>However, for a final undergraduate essay, no professional editor
    will ever take it as a \"manuscript\"; what the student sees is all he'll ever
    get.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhich gets back to the original question: What are these
    documents for? Practice for becoming an eventual professional in the field? Even
    if it will not become ones profession? \r\n\r\nOr, coming as close as one can
    to a final presentation, given that several text editors are essentially layout
    engines, and fonts common. Yet design is itself another profession..."
  created: '2013-05-13 00:12:06'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "It was my understanding that this is what is called TCC in Brazil, <a href=\"http://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trabalho_de_conclus\xE3o_de_curso\">Trabalho
    de conclus\xE3o de curso</a>. Students learn how to search for references on a
    given subject, cite them, make a bibliography, etc. They need to show understanding
    of their subject, and give proper credit to those they are referring to. The reader
    should be able to check the validity of all statements from the argumentation
    and the given references. The Brazilians will correct me if I am wrong or missed
    something."
  created: '2013-05-13 01:30:26'
- author:
    name: ycherem
  body: ".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-13 01:57:04'
- author:
    name: ycherem
  body: "@Michel,\r\n\r\nYes, you're right. It's a final undergraduate essay or any
    equivalent term. \r\n\r\nNo, it's not a design course. (If someone hasn't realized
    that yet...)\r\n\r\nFinally, I don't see why editors wouldn't be able to \"work
    on\" Latex files, but that's another issue. As far as I know, and as far as I'm
    concerned, Latex does a pretty decent job typesetting for people who are not themselves
    professional typesetters.\r\n\r\nReviewers/readers can comment between double-spaced
    lines or along the margins (if they're wide enough), or using Adobe Reader, or
    on the document itself -- no matter the format. Or on a piece of paper. It's really
    irrelevant."
  created: '2013-05-13 01:57:38'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: "You are right, Michel. TCC, also called \u201Cmonograph\u201D, is a research
    work presented to conclude graduation. Students may be asked to produce other
    similar works during graduation, with narrower subjects. Its formatting is Youssef's
    target. There is a set of general rules defined by ABNT, a national equivalent
    to ISO or DIN. Universities adopt them in variable degrees. Unhappily, these rules
    are quite deficient regarding DTP. "
  created: '2013-05-13 02:05:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "If I had a dollar for every time I started thinking about the font before
    I started writing the paper<a href=\"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GO22Z0T3qPE\">\u2026</a>"
  created: '2013-05-13 04:05:00'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: For a student that has never used a  markup or computer language and that
    might have a hard time finding a missing closing brace or bracket in his input
    file, I think LaTeX could be quite traumatizing; <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lyx">LyX</a>
    might be the solution. I have seen a full M.Sc. thesis in computer science written
    with LyX, which shows it can serve as a workhorse. On the other hand LyX follows
    the <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/WYSIWYM">What  You See Is What You Mean</a>
    paradigm, so that (so far as I understand for basic use) the student would not
    have to deal himself with markup elements, he would simply deal with the content
    and the professor in charge can adjust the LaTeX packages if needed. I must however
    say that I have never used LyX, not even on the .lyx files provided by the student;
    I just compiled the  corresponding .tex files with pdflatex.
  created: '2013-05-13 14:08:17'
- author:
    name: Igor Freiberger
    picture: 115255
  body: '@Chris: Which font did you choose?'
  created: '2013-05-14 01:43:30'
date: '2013-05-09 22:03:40'
node_type: forum
title: Rules for academic essays/dissertations

---
