---
author:
  name: vernon adams
  picture: 121155
body: "I am interested; how have people's standpoints and views have changed on webfont
  usage and licensing over the last few years? If we look at a Typophile post such
  as http://typophile.com/node/67790 it's interesting to see what may have changed.
  \ If we go back  say, 5 years, it's even more revealing. \r\n\r\n-v"
comments:
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "The silence is deafening, eh?\r\nVern - if you were to give an idea of the
    kind of change in standpoint and view you suspect might have taken place, maybe
    it would help get the ball rolling.\r\n\r\nFor myself - getting involved with
    fonts led, for me, to a complete re-thinking about the function of copyright as
    it is being applied (or mis-applied, as it were) to digital goods. \r\n\r\nFWIW
    - I think that, on the whole, those who spend a goodly amount of their time making
    typefaces, don't like the move from type on paper to type on screen and never
    will.  They prefer a medium where the size of the type is known and fixed.\r\nEnd
    of story. That's their druthers, their preferred medium. \r\nThe question, however,
    is how much of that kind of graphics design work will be around in ten, twenty,
    or thirty years.\r\nHakon Wium Lie made a wry joke in a post on the W3C mailing
    list that touched upon this issue. He said that they better hurry up and get the
    multi-column and other print-friendly standards nailed down and implemented or
    otherwise there won't be any more books printed. \r\nHis point being that the
    digital \"web\" version of the \"book\" is, even today, the primary product, with
    a paper version feasible only if the stylesheet capabilities are there to port
    the thing to paper. \r\n\r\nThe world has been flipped upside down. \r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: vernon adams
      picture: 121155
    body: "Thanks Rich, \r\nThe function and role of copyright in digital product
      is for sure an interest in this. Same would be the function and role of 'intellectual
      property'. Both of those are finding it difficult to maintain the old levels
      of territorial security, in the web age, that they had in the pre-web age.\r\nGoing
      back a few years, i remember one of the main arguments from prominant type figures
      against the use of the CSS rules that allowed dynamic embedding of common font
      files, was that type designers would not 'give up' their 'intellectual property'
      via this type of font freedom, and thus the widespread use of free, dynamic
      embedding would just not happen. I think many designers took comfort in feeling
      that the type industry would be able to steer type on the web away from the
      free and easy-ness that was threatening. SO... was that free and easy-ness as
      big a threat as people were expecting?\r\n"
    created: '2013-05-16 18:30:29'
  created: '2013-05-15 22:21:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nah, nothing that dramatic.\r\n\r\nI for one don't mind things that are inevitable
    - in fact I think it's my social and spiritual duty to adapt. I also happen to
    prefer screens to printed matter, which is a highly inelegant medium. But that
    doesn't mean everything is OK. Every technological change spawns new people who
    are opportunistic and/or ignorant!\r\n\r\nAs always, what we have to fight is
    not the medium, but feeble-mindedness.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-15 22:41:41'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "\u201CThe silence is deafening, eh?\u201D Tempest in a teapot. \r\n\r\nIf
    Vernon can ask a clear question, I\u2019m sure he will get answers. And if you
    can stop rambling, I\u2019m sure we can have a productive discussion."
  created: '2013-05-15 23:04:10'
- author:
    name: vernon adams
    picture: 121155
  body: "I think my question is clear enough. It's probably just that the subject
    is not that interesting to many.  If you go back 3-5 years and look at the sort
    of discussions around ways 'the type industry' was viewing how type could be set
    on the web, and compare that to how type is now being set on the web, i am curious
    how the views and attitudes of type designers may have changed towards type on
    the web.\r\n\r\nJust 2 examples;  go back to around 2009 and there were prominant
    voices stating that they were, e.g., \"100% against @font-face\", or that webfonts
    could only be properly served to the web once things like a \"permissions table\"
    was imposed onto, and accepted as an opentype/truetype/web standard, by type designers,
    web engineers & users. So...e.g., what happended to things like @font-face and
    the permissions table? and, for example, how did type end up managing with them
    and / or without them? \r\n\r\nThe post of http://typophile.com/node/67790 seemed
    like a fair taste of the way things were, i.e. people not really knowing how to
    react, what to think, what to do, which side to be on, etc etc. And maybe most
    importantly not allways seeing the route that was likely.\r\n\r\nI'm guessing
    that people are now more sure of what they think, and may even now be acting in
    ways they would not have imagined 3-5 years ago. Basically i'm curious on how
    people's views, attitudes, and actions may have changed about type on the web.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-16 18:05:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...webfonts could only be properly served...once things like a \"permissions
    table\" was imposed onto...\"\r\n\r\n\"Only\" and \"imposed\" were not used, \"permissions\"
    were never proposed alone or as the DRM that's coming to other media, and recommendations
    have been quite important, many of them are part of, as I said they would become,
    our private data, in a private service that benefits our clients, alone. \r\n\r\nAlmost
    all of the then recommended recommendations have become issues in dealing with
    the web, and/or responsive media in an increasingly typographically enabled but
    resolutionarily fractured browser market. We expect to make use of all of the
    recommendations as functionality creeps on. \r\n\r\nIn these still-early stages
    of the web, many thousands of dead type designers have 'given up' their 'intellectual
    property' via the font freedom of the web, and this has encouraged live type designers
    to do so as well. That, and a huge player supporting them was welcome contrast,
    but not expected. \r\n\r\nAnd obviously some people were all talk, while others
    were not.;)\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: vernon adams
      picture: 121155
    body: "<cite>\"Almost all of the then recommended recommendations have become
      issues in dealing with the web, and/or responsive media in an increasingly typographically
      enabled but resolutionarily fractured browser market. We expect to make use
      of all of the recommendations as functionality creeps on.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nOk
      so here's a couple of questions to that; \r\nIf the permissions table had been
      adopted by designers, engineers and users, in the way it was recommended in
      2009, what differences may it have made to where we are now? \r\nAlso, is there
      still a need for the permissions table, in the same way it was recommended that
      one was needed back in '09? Has that idea (or a similarly targeted one) still
      to have it's day?  e.g. i  could see permissions-based font embedding happening
      as part of some of the W3C + DRM recommendations that are afloat [[http://www.fsf.org/news/world-wide-web-consortium-takes-next-step-with-controversial-drm-proposal-defective-by-design-condemns-decision
      | (link to FSF web DRM news).]]\r\nIdeas? Comments? :)"
    created: '2013-05-17 02:34:10'
  created: '2013-05-16 22:30:16'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "\"I wish I had a watermelon.\"\r\n\"I wish I had a watermelon.\"\r\n\"I wish
    I had a watermelon.\"\r\nContinually repeated as a lamp is rubbed.\r\n\"I wish
    I had a watermelon.\"\r\n\"I wish I had a watermelon.\"\r\n\"I wish I had a watermelon.\"\r\n\"I
    wish I had a watermelon.\"\r\n..."
  created: '2013-05-17 02:46:03'
- author:
    name: vernon adams
    picture: 121155
  body: I wish there was a delete thread option...
  created: '2013-05-17 03:43:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I was silent in that thread, and I still don\u2019t have much of a standpoint
    or views on the subject. So, not much change. I have several webfont distributors,
    but haven\u2019t really tried to \uFB01gure out why some do better for me than
    others. It was like that before.\r\n\r\nI did think about doing some Google fonts,
    and even made one that I thought would be suitable, but never got around to submitting
    it."
  created: '2013-05-17 05:29:51'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: As to the original question, is seems that the discussion <a href="http://typographica.org/on-typography/library-subscriptions-the-future-of-fonts-should-we-sing-or-cry/"
    target="_blank">is a different now</a> than the one it was then.
  created: '2013-05-17 10:57:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"...i could see permissions-based font embedding happening...\"\r\n\r\nYou
    mean, everybody who wants internet font exclusivity just gets an app embedding
    license."
  children:
  - author:
      name: vernon adams
      picture: 121155
    body: "<cite>You mean, everybody who wants internet font exclusivity just gets
      an app embedding license.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo, not really.\r\nI'm not sure how
      specifically it would work, (horses for course i would bet) but i suspect that
      the W3C DRM proposals could introduce a few things, including;\r\n\u2022 the
      normalisation of 'ring fencing' web content for proprietary only use (something
      that, so far, allways tended to flounder on the web)\r\n\u2022 browser-side
      operations that permit / deny web object usage.\r\n\r\nJust those 2 would probably
      provide enough of a secure environment where font providers could sell more
      traditional licenses for web font use, and the licensee could then serve those
      real fonts to the web, without the font provider fearing that their intellectual
      property was simply being set free into the wild.  \r\nThe above scenario is
      exactly why film and music publishers are hoping the W3C proposals come to fruition;
      then they can start selling web-based music and film to users with far less
      risk of their content going walkabout.\r\n\r\nA product like 'ready-media' must
      be itching for this scenario? to roll out a joined up & uniformly protected
      typographic solution, from paper to web?"
    created: '2013-05-17 16:56:45'
  created: '2013-05-17 13:59:48'
- author:
    name: vernon adams
    picture: 121155
  body: "<cite>As to the original question, is seems that the discussion is a different
    now than the one it was then.</cite>\r\nExactly (i think).  Stuff like the Adobe
    'Creative Cloud' service (no doubt already a blueprint for others), makes much
    more sense in a DRM'd world wide web. \r\n"
  created: '2013-05-17 16:11:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Vernon, although mechanisms for digital rights management, once in place,
    can be applied to pretty much any piece of digital code or data, there seem to
    be quite different attitudes towards DRM for consumer content (music, video, games)
    and DRM for the nuts and bolts stuff of displaying web content. This much is one
    of the things that was obvious in 2009: the browser makers were all adamant that
    they wouldn''t accept any webfont standard that included DRM. The fact that two
    of those browser makers, now wearing their content-provider hats, are among the
    parties supporting the W3C Encrypted Media Extension for content protection illustrates
    the different attitudes.'
  created: '2013-05-17 18:43:50'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "What John said.\r\n\r\nExcept: Microsoft seemed more than willing to accept
    DRM for fonts. But they were ~ alone among browser vendors in that regard. Mozilla
    and Google in particular were really not going to go there, no way, no how.\r\n\r\nFont
    makers and vendors decided that web fonts were inevitable, and decided to take
    what they could get, rather than curse the darkness. (Though some did both.)\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2013-05-17 18:57:57'
- author:
    name: vernon adams
    picture: 121155
  body: "<blockquote>there seem to be quite different attitudes towards DRM for consumer
    content (music, video, games) and DRM for the nuts and bolts stuff of displaying
    web content. </blockquote>\r\nYes. And i wonder if  'quality type' is now an area
    ripe to be marketed as <cite>consumer content</cite>, instead of just given away
    as <cite>nuts and bolts</cite> web content. Isn't this where a service like 'Ready-Media'
    is heading? or could be."
  created: '2013-05-17 19:14:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "A service like Ready-Media is still using fonts as design and presentation
    <em>tools</em>, not as consumer content. This is the fundamental difference between
    fonts and, say, music files.\r\n\r\n<em>...instead of just given away as nuts
    and bolts web content.</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't say anything about given away, and
    I didn't describe fonts as web content. If we're going to have this discussion,
    please read what I write with more care (sorry to sound impatient, but I don't
    have a lot of free time these days). I referred to the 'the nuts and bolts stuff
    of <em>displaying</em> web content'. Nuts and bolts in the sense of reliable mechanisms
    necessary to display content, not implying anything about 'given away'."
  created: '2013-05-17 20:01:07'
- author:
    name: vernon adams
    picture: 121155
  body: "<blockquote>If we're going to have this discussion, please read what I write
    with more care (sorry to sound impatient, but I don't have a lot of free time
    these days).</blockquote>\r\nApologies for misunderstanding / misinterpreting.
    Ironically, i don't think you caught my original points too well either :)\r\n\r\nThe
    obvious distinction is between the <cite>nuts and bolts</cite> of the web, (e.g.
    the software that runs the web, provides the structures, routes, platforms, etc),
    and the <cite>content</cite> of the web (e.g. the stuff people 'consume' on the
    web).\r\nThe <cite>nuts and bolts</cite> of the web is predominantly 'give away'
    stuff (Free Software). What the WC3 proposals can do is enable the building on
    top of that base, a more 'proprietary-centric' web layer for 'content' to be consumed
    in. \r\nFonts can fall into either category.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-17 20:37:50'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@Frode Bo Helland\r\nSorry to backtrack, but I wanted to respond, before
    I forgot all about it.\r\nFrode wrote:\r\n><em>\"And if you can stop rambling,
    I\u2019m sure we can have a productive discussion.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't remember
    seeing terms of service here requiring that I write in a way that YOU find acceptable.\r\nBut
    common decency does require, I think, that you not behave like the condescending
    little twit that apparently you are.\r\nPerhaps you should confine yourself to
    participating only in exclusive online orgies of the like-minded - by that I mean
    a circle jerk like Typedrawers where people are barred from participating from
    the get-go because they have, in the past and in other contexts, expressed opinions
    that the manager of that forum, James Puckett does not like.\r\nJames Puckett
    strikes me as a putz very much in your mold, Frode.\r\nAm I dealing with a clique
    here? I think so.\r\nA Klan to keep out the riffraff, is that it?\r\n\r\nAdios
    - you win. Not worth the expense."
  created: '2013-05-17 21:34:41'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: 'Vernon: I did not mean to sound condescending towards you. The conversation
    is moving now, so perhaps I was wrong.'
  created: '2013-05-17 22:24:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Richard, you're being unduly antagonistic. Consider who made Typophile worth
    existing and what its natural role is. Then see if your own agenda can co-exist
    with that with sufficient harmony, or whether you should grin and bear it when
    confronted, staying focused on content, instead of spending most of your time
    fanning flames (which achieves nothing).\r\n\r\nAnd Frode is nothing like James.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-17 22:25:13'
- author:
    name: vernon adams
    picture: 121155
  body: '@Frode No problem at all. I''m thick skinned anyway :)'
  created: '2013-05-18 01:03:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Vernon:\"No, not really. I'm not sure how specifically it would wor... \"\r\n\r\nAnd
    you missed my point as well. I mean, it does already... if someone wants a unique
    typographic ID, they make an app, embed a font, and deliver it in a way that is
    certain, and relatively safe to their fonts. And, all kinds of other media is
    being delivered this way, off web, via Internet in apps.\r\n\r\nSo, if the w3c
    is aiming to make such compartmentalization possible, maybe 100,000,000 developers
    will rewrite their apps, and maybe by then something better will have developed,
    again ahead of the web. \r\n\r\nNow, back to troll wack a mole.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-18 03:48:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typophile.com/node/103169\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-20 16:38:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks Hrant. Nice to see SIL still hating on EOT... in 3 / 5 years nothing
    has changed. :-)\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2013-05-20 23:15:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: But I think Victor is only writing with regard to each format's ability to
    provide FE, which is ironic, isn't it?
  created: '2013-05-21 11:49:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "EOT is just a wrapper for a TTF file, and the (optional) compression is lossless.
    The format even supports additional metadata (allowed roots etc.) - so you can
    really think of EOT as WOFF version 0.9. :-) \r\n\r\nSo if a TTF file is okay
    then an EOT file should be okay. However, I think the only people the FUD hurts
    is Google, which I find even more ironic. :-/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-21 18:02:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What's the reason SIL might be anti-EOT?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-21 18:10:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I couldn't understand why EOT would not be okay if WOFF was okay. I have
    inquired on the other thread/announcement.\r\n\r\nIn any case, as subsetting and
    other important processing is still disallowed, it would seem to me that the only
    legit option for a typical web font service provider using OFL licensed fonts
    that make use of the Reserved Font Name is to cut a supplementary deal with each
    and every vendor. Sigh.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-21 22:29:04'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em> the only legit option for a typical web font service provider using
    OFL licensed fonts that make use of the Reserved Font Name is to cut a supplementary
    deal with each and every vendor. Sigh.</em>\r\n\r\nYep. I will ask the GF designers
    if they really do want to have RFNs on each family - Vern for example wants to
    use RFNs on only some of his designs - and hopefully this will result in a lot
    of RFNs being rescinded. \r\n\r\nFor the RFNs that remain, I think a little web
    app could go a long way to reducing the cost and complexity of cutting those deals.
    \r\n\r\nStay tuned."
  created: '2013-05-31 14:59:53'
date: '2013-05-13 20:59:41'
node_type: forum
title: Webfont Licensing etc, 3 years later.

---
