---
author:
  name: amyook
body: Hello, <BR>I am wondering if anyone in this forum has designed a font and then
  given it away for free. If you have, I am really interested in your motivation for
  donating your design work to the public domain. Did you do it because you are a
  believer in &#34;free culture?&#34; Did you do it because you judged your font to
  be &#34;noncommercial?&#34; Did you do it for self-promotion? Can&#39;t suggest
  any more off the top of my head - help me out!
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Amy, if you dig around using google&#39;s advanced search, I&#39;d be willing
    to bet you find a few instances of people appreciating others&#39; critiques and
    comments enough to send a copy of the completed typeface.
  created: '2005-04-13 20:28:16'
- author:
    name: amyook
  body: Sorry Tiffany, I&#34;m not sure I understand that reply. I&#39;m not interested
    in whether typefaces are complete or not - I am interested in the designers and
    their motivations for posting typefaces to the web.
  created: '2005-04-14 03:47:50'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: Amy, note that giving away a font and putting it in the public domain aren&#39;t
    strictly speaking the same. If a font is in the public domain, you can derive
    other works off of it.  <BR> <BR>I haven&#39;t, but I&#39;m just in the process
    of designing my first real typeface. I hope to earn big bucks from it. &#40;OK,
    I hope to earn enough money to upgrade to the new CS2.&#41;
  created: '2005-04-14 04:37:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '&#62;... I hope to earn big bucks from it. &#40;OK, I hope to earn enough
    money to upgrade to the new CS2.&#41;&#60; <BR> <BR>Now that&#39;s the spirit
    :-&#41;'
  created: '2005-04-14 12:49:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I was thinking that perhaps finding a designer that has done this you might
    be able to ask them specifically. <BR> <BR>Not very many small foundries do offer
    type for free. Well, that isn&#39;t true if you think about Astigmatic and Font
    Diner. But, their type is mostly display. However, that doesn&#39;t matter in
    regards to your question, does it?
  created: '2005-04-14 17:15:07'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'I think there are a number of reasons why type designers give fonts away.
    Here a few that come to mind: <BR> <BR><b>1. Promotional purposes.</b> The idea
    is to give away a free sample to generate interest and good will with hopes that
    people will pay for other fonts offered. <BR> <BR><b>2. Specialized non-commercial
    niche.</b> There are some areas such as academia or hobbies for which type designers,
    usually amateurs, create fonts to fulfill some special purpose. The fonts are
    given away out of a sense of sharing with others who have the same interest. <BR>
    <BR><b>3. Lack of confidence.</b> Novice type designers or others who may just
    be dabbling in type design give fonts away just because they don&#39;t think their
    fonts are good enough to charge money. Often, these fonts are incomplete or untested.
    By giving the font away, the designer absolves him or herself of responsibility
    for how the font performs. &#40;I suspect that most freeware fonts fall into this
    category.&#41; <BR> <BR><b>4. Idealism.</b> Some type designers give away their
    fonts as part of the free software subculture. This is a nice idea, but I suspect
    these people have some other source of income and lots of free time. &#40;BTW,
    giving away commercial fonts created by others is not idealism, it&#39;s piracy.&#41;
    <BR> <BR><b>5. Hopelessness.</b> Some type designers give away their fonts in
    the belief that it&#39;s not possible to make money in type design &#40;not actually
    true, btw&#41; and see it as a &#34;labor of love.&#34; <BR> <BR><b>6. Public
    service.</b> Sometimes a fonts designed for some practical purpose are given away
    to gain wide distribution, such as web fonts or system fonts. It may also be that
    free alternatives are already available from other sources. Bitstream&#39;s free
    Vera fonts are an example of this. Their commercial font business does well enough
    that they can afford to do this as a public service. My font <a href="http://www.ms-studio.com/FontSales/anonymous.html"
    target="_blank">Anonymous</a> is a similar case. On one hand, it was derived from
    an existing freeware bitmap font and it only seemed right to keep it free. On
    the other hand, I saw it as a way to draw visitors to my site and demonstrate
    the quality of the commercial fonts I offer &#40;see reason 1 above&#41;. <BR>
    <BR><b>7. Lack of authorship.</b> By this I mean people who trace or autotrace
    existing fonts from old specimen books, often without much skill, and give fonts
    their fonts away because they wouldn&#39;t feel right about charging for something
    that took so little effort. &#40;This can be like numbers 3 and 4 above, but for
    people without original ideas.&#41; <BR> <BR>I&#39;m sure there are other reasons,
    and I&#39;m sure that some of these are colored by my own point of view as someone
    who makes a substantial part of his income from selling fonts.'
  created: '2005-04-14 18:27:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I haven&#39;t designed any fonts, or typefaces, that I&#39;ve given away.
    However, the &#34;Panoptic&#34; alphabet &#40;which emerged in the process of
    designing the typeface Panoptica&#41; is in the public domain, because I haven&#39;t
    patented it. Too much trouble and expense, and besides, I&#39;d be interested
    to see other interpretations of the alphabet, although there&#39;s not a big market
    for monowidth unicase typefaces!
  created: '2005-04-14 18:40:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Mark, this is a great answer and maps closely to my observations of free fonts,
    at least on the Web.  <BR> <BR>With respect to 6, there&#39;s often a business
    motive in giving stuff away, especially if the font is wrapped in a pretty restrictive
    license. I think the Vera fonts are a case in point. Bitstream hopes that they
  created: '2005-04-14 18:43:39'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Panoptica is one of my favorite of your fonts, Nick.
  created: '2005-04-14 18:48:30'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: I have not yet released a real font, but plan to release my <a href="http://levien.com/type/myfonts/">Century
    Catalogue</a> under a free software license. I&#39;m not sure about the others;
    in part, we&#39;ll see how the first one goes. <BR> <BR>I have a good reason to
    release the CCat for free; I would like it to be one of a set of fonts useful
    for typesetting mathematics in TeX, and for it to have any real chance of catching
    on, it has to be released as free software. Otherwise, among other things, it
    won&#39;t ship with Linux distributions and so on. In addition to TeX, I&#39;m
    developing some of my <a href="http://ghilbert.org">own</a> mathematics software
    &#40;derived from Metamath, also released as free software, in this case GPL&#41;,
    and, again, I&#39;d very much like this font to be part of the free release. <BR>
    <BR>All seven of Mark&#39;s points apply, to different degrees. The <i>design</i>
    of Century Catalogue is clearly in the public domain, although I am putting a
    lot of effort into making a good digitization. <BR> <BR>I have not yet chosen
    the actual license under which I will distribute the font. It will almost certainly
    be compatible with the <a href="http://www.debian.org/social_contract">Debian
    Free Software Guidelines</a>, as that is pretty much the gold standard for making
    sure that the license is compatible with other free software. I doubt seriously
    it will be public domain. I would like to keep rip-off artists from piling my
    font in with a trillion others on scammy download sites and pay CD&#39;s, I would
    like to, but I am not yet sure to what extent that&#39;s possible while still
    remaining within the DFSG.
  created: '2005-04-14 18:58:30'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: '&#62; There'
  created: '2005-04-14 19:02:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;Panoptica is one of my favorite of your fonts, Nick. <BR> <BR>Thanks
    Mark, Coquette is my favorite of yours. <BR> <BR>However, I think Refrigerator
    would be quite suitable for a &#34;panoptic&#34; alphabet version...'
  created: '2005-04-14 19:36:16'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Hmm. Interesting idea. I&#39;ll keep that in mind.
  created: '2005-04-14 20:48:48'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: By the way, in reason number 7 I mean the quick-and-dirty kind of &#34;revivals&#34;
    you often see on free font sites, not careful, studied revivals. What you&#39;re
    doing, Raph, is squarely in the latter category, and I think it&#39;s turning
    out very nicely, too. It&#39;s unusual for something with that amount of effort
    put into it to be given away.
  created: '2005-04-14 21:38:39'
- author:
    name: Mark Foster
    picture: 109627
  body: '&#62; I would like it to be one of a set of fonts useful for typesetting
    mathematics in TeX <BR> <BR>I do hope you plan standard TT and T1 versions targeting
    non-TeX users as well... As a member of that community, I would prefer to pay
    for Century Catalogue so that it retains the lustre of its historic origins -
    and you get some kind of direct return, however modest, for your own creative
    and technical investment - than see it featured on an upcoming installment of
    fontleech. <BR> <BR>Of course, your strategy makes total sense in the TeX context,
    and it may not be feasible to support two different licensing arrangements. But
    it might be worth considering.'
  created: '2005-04-14 22:02:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: You could sell a &#34;posh&#34; OpenType version with small caps and oldstyle
    figures &#40;not used in math setting?&#41;.
  created: '2005-04-15 01:08:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I respect your goals of releasing your font and mathematics work free, Raph,
    but I really don&#39;t get the concept. Academics are paid by their universities,
    and don&#39;t get paid for journal articles. It makes sense to follow that model
    to some extent if you are being paid as an academic, but I gather you are a graduate
    student. Your font is an impressive piece of work and I am sure took many weeks
    of full days to produce. Your math work probably much more. Will you be compensated
    in some way for your time and your accomplishments?  <BR> <BR>This - a font and
    perhaps your math publishing software - is different from a Journal article in
    that it is a product that is sold for use. I can see that an operating system
    like linux, which is massive and many people can make contributions to, can fruitfully
    grow open source. But I really wonder about applications, which is what you are
    developing here.
  created: '2005-04-15 01:33:44'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Mark, nice list, but you forgot to mention evilness as some typophiles stated
    once that free things promote laziness and degrade morale.  <BR> <BR>I
  created: '2005-04-15 02:38:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;stingyness <BR> <BR>Let me explain my thinking on this. Most people
    have to work for a living. If they get paid for designing type or creating math
    software, then they can go on doing it. If they don&#39;t they have to do something
    else.   <BR> <BR>That is why philosophically, I think the &#39;free work&#39;
    concept is bogus - just as those who think nobody is hurt by pirating music, because
    it &#39;ought&#39; to be free. <BR> <BR>Of course hobbyists can do good work,
    but sustained excellence of somebody like a Matthew Carter just isn&#39;t going
    to happen unless they get paid. There are free niches, but it is an illusion to
    think the market can get excellence without paying somebody for it. Again, the
    hippie idea &#39;everybody should just do everything for free&#39; is just bogus.'
  created: '2005-04-15 03:17:59'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: Selling something for money is certainly not stinginess. 99% of the world&#39;s
    population must do this to survive, myself included. <BR> <BR>People who do give
    fonts, software, and other things away for free still derive benefits. It might
    be fame, it might be new work avenues, it might just be a sense of happiness or
    charity. There&#39;s nothing wrong with any of those. <BR> <BR>Some people also
    don&#39;t believe in copyright or patents. Not believing in these things doesn&#39;t
    make a person evil.
  created: '2005-04-15 03:27:24'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: 'Nick: yes, I think that selling an OpenType version commercially may well
    be the way to go. It&#39;s not so much a matter of poshness as how the features
    are packaged. TeX does in fact do small caps, but accomplishes them by choosing
    a different optical scale of the base font. Yes, TeX does optical scaling, and
    has since before Microsoft Word was in diapers. This is one of the reasons why
    doing an optically scaled series of this font is so appealing -- people will be
    able to use the optical scaling without having to twist themselves into pretzels.
    You are correct that TeX does not have oldstyle figures in its base glyph complement,
    and that they&#39;re unusual in math setting. <BR> <BR>From a technical point
    of view, I&#39;d need to distribute the free version as a PostScript Type 1 font,
    because that&#39;s what the PDF export from TeX needs as its raw materials. TeX&#39;s
    own font format, Metafont, is pretty much dead these days. <BR> <BR>I have deep
    roots in the free software culture, but am not a fanatic. In this particular case,
    it&#39;s mostly a pragmatic decision. Many, many companies have tried to build
    proprietary extensions on top of TeX &#40;including simply selling fonts for it&#41;,
    with absolutely no success. I would much rather see my work used and the overall
    typographic quality of math publications raised than follow those footsteps. <BR>
    <BR>In any case, I don&#39;t believe that free software is for everybody, but
    have warm feelings for its own particular strengths and charms. In any case, William,
    the analogy here is not people who pirate music, but people who release their
    own music for free. Maybe that does depress the market for commercial work, but
    at the same time I doubt that Britney Spears&#39; corporate owners lose much sleep
    over the vast quantities of jam band music available at etree.org. <BR> <BR>I&#39;d
    also like to bring up the EULA issue; users of my free fonts will be able to add
    new glyphs or otherwise customize them, without having to worry about running
    afoul of the EULA.'
  created: '2005-04-15 04:12:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;the analogy here is not people who pirate music, but people who release
    their own music for free <BR> <BR>That is true. My point was that some who pirate
    music - and perhaps also fonts - do it on the excuse that it all &#39;ought to
    be&#39; free. And that argument I was rejecting.  <BR> <BR>It sounds like for
    the market you want to serve, there is no way to be compensated directly for it.
    But my point is that being compensated will sustain you to do other worthwhile
    projects of your choosing. So if you can include the font as part of your math
    publishing software, and charge for that, all the better, in my view. If that
    must be free, well so be it; I just worry about you being able to sustain the
    fine work you are doing.  <BR> <BR>Good luck with all of it!'
  created: '2005-04-15 04:19:11'
- author:
    name: amyook
  body: '&#62;giving away a font and putting it in the public domain aren&#39;t strictly
    speaking the same. If a font is in the public domain, you can derive other works
    off of it. <BR> <BR>Point taken. There are various degrees to which you can give
    the public access to a font - I have come across stipulations about commercial
    versus private use like, &#34;if you use these fonts commercially, give a donation
    to Doctors Without Borders&#34; &#40;Manfred Klein&#39;s fonts <a href="http://moorstation.org/typoasis/designers.klein"
    target="_blank">http://moorstation.org/typoasis/designers.klein</a>&#41;. Other
    options include creative commons licenses that allow flexible copyright for creative
    work &#40;<a href="http://creativecommons.org/license" target="_blank">http://creativecommons.org/license</a>&#41;
    as well as  full-on copyleft licenses that insist that all derivative works from
    the free work remain free and in the public domain. <BR> <BR>thanks for the input
    so far,everyone - really interesting stuff.'
  created: '2005-04-15 05:23:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Another motive, or lack thereof, more accurately: <BR> <BR>Ragged Trousered
    Philanthropist <BR>&#40;The title of a classic socialist novel&#41; <BR><a href="http://www.unionhistory.info/ragged/ragged.php"
    target="_blank">http://www.unionhistory.info/ragged/ragged.php</a> <BR> <BR>&#62;Again,
    the hippie idea &#39;everybody should just do everything for free&#39; is just
    bogus. <BR> <BR>Like a lot of political ideals, it&#39;s unworkable unless everybody
    plays the game. Similarly, you can&#39;t dismiss an idea just because it&#39;s
    never worked in the past.'
  created: '2005-04-15 11:08:50'
- author:
    name: Gustavo Ferreira
    picture: 110385
  body: 'i have been working for two years now in developing a flexible bitmap font
    system called Elementar. this work originated as my diploma work and is currently
    being further developed as my master thesis. <BR> <BR>in july this project has
    to leave the achademical world and become autonomous '
  created: '2005-04-15 11:10:24'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: '&#34;There are free niches, but it is an illusion to think the market can
    get excellence without paying somebody for it. Again, the hippie idea &#39;everybody
    should just do everything for free&#39; is just bogus.&#34; <BR> <BR>Open Source
    software seems to disprove that. Granted, Open Source software development is
    certainly not the same as digital type design.  <BR> <BR>CreativeCommons is a
    great concept...it allows folks to both give away work for not cost, but retain
    various levels of credit and rights ownerhip, which preserves some value for the
    product...even if it&#39;s not a monetary value.'
  created: '2005-04-15 14:57:54'
- author:
    name: maxim_zhukov
    picture: 110142
  body: '<i>I think there are a number of reasons why type designers give fonts away.
    Here a few that come to mind: &#60;...&#62; 1. &#60;...&#62; 2. &#60;...&#62;
    3.&#60;...&#62;</i> <BR> <BR>There is another, very special, variety of the free
    font distribution. It could be considered &#39;niche&#39; if the numbers of the
    target users of those fonts were not in the millions, or tens of millions. <BR>
    <BR>The non-Latin &#39;extensions&#39; of the popular Western typefaces'
  created: '2005-04-15 15:47:18'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: 'Maxim: excellent point! I think that GPL or other freely licensed fonts may
    be an excellent alternative for people who want to keep things squeaky-clean.
    <BR> <BR>Indeed, we&#39;ve seen exactly this happen with the Ghostscript fonts.
    The company I work for, Artifex Software, started the ball rolling by licensing
    the rights from URW to release a complete set of PostScript Level 2 clone fonts
    under the GPL. Valek Filippov then added Cyrillic glyphs and released his new
    versions. This version was picked up by Red Hat for Linux distributions, with
    some fixes and touch-ups by Owen Taylor. Today, we distribute the <a href="http://www.cs.wisc.edu/~ghost/doc/AFPL/get850.htm">1.06</a>
    version of these fonts, and plan to set up a repository to import the <a href="http://they.com/doc/gsfonts/">newest
    &#40;1.07pre22&#41;</a> version, which lots of extra <a href="http://lists.debian.org/debian-i18n/2004/06/msg00023.html">local
    language support</a>, including Uzbek and Vietnamese. I personally am very happy
    that all this activity is out there in the open.'
  created: '2005-04-15 16:13:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Unauthorized localization is piracy, Maxim, not an example of a type designer
    giving away a free font. <BR> <BR>Nonetheless, despite the situation you describe,
    I am considering putting non-western characters in some OpenType fonts. While
    there is not much of a foreign market for a Western foundry doing this, there
    appear to be two potential purchasers of such fonts: &#34;ethnic&#34; publishers
    catering to their communities in the West, and Western corporations marketing
    their product in non-Latin countries. <BR> <BR>Also, I would enjoy the challenge
    of designing glyphs for different alphabets.  <BR> <BR>In fact, now that I think
    of it, there are a number of typefaces I&#39;ve designed &#34;for the challenge&#34;
    &#40;such as Alphaville, 4,000 and something on the Myfonts sales chart&#41;,
    not because there is any demand for them. Perhaps I should be giving those away.
    Another category, Vanity Publishing? <BR> <BR>But maybe not. Typefaces that are
    not popular now may catch on in the future. And perhaps countries where software
    piracy is rife now will go legit? Is that a possibility, Maxim?'
  created: '2005-04-15 16:42:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Did anyone mention charity fundraising? <BR> <BR>A lot of foundries and designers
    have contributed fonts to fundraisers such as Building Letters and Font Aid.
  created: '2005-04-15 16:48:19'
- author:
    name: maxim_zhukov
    picture: 110142
  body: '&#62; <i>Unauthorized localization is piracy, Maxim, not an example of a
    type designer giving away a free font.</i> <BR> <BR>Unfortunately, this is a bit
    more complex, and more complicated... The unauthorised development of the non-Latin
    versions of the commercial Western typefaces is the daily practice in so many
    countries. <BR> <BR>Nick, you know well that many EULAs allow the modification
    of fonts'
  created: '2005-04-16 01:34:38'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: 'Amy, you end your original message by asking me for help. I&#39;m one of
    those people you wonder about. I&#39;ll help if you pay me 50 Euro. &#40;Why would
    anybody want to help you for free?&#41; <BR> <BR>There is a Russian saying: Free
    is only the cheese in a mousetrap. My dad used to tell it. <BR> <BR> <BR>PS. This
    message is free because of my lack of confidence, it&#39;s hopelessness,  and
    the lack of authorship.'
  created: '2005-04-16 22:31:14'
- author:
    name: amyook
  body: Sorry Sergej, <BR>haven&#39;t got 50 Euro, I&#39;m just a poor student. But
    I like the mousetrap analogy - thanks Dad.
  created: '2005-04-18 10:50:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;This message is free because of my lack of confidence, it&#39;s hopelessness,
    and the lack of authorship. <BR> <BR>And I thought you were an independently wealthy
    altruist.'
  created: '2005-04-18 12:32:41'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: 'I give 50% discount to students '
  created: '2005-04-18 19:59:55'
- author:
    name: mosh
    picture: 109476
  body: I once gave a font for free, after one or two years of having completed its
    design. I did it because I had gotten many things for free over the internet,
    and because I had no big money concerns. I also was curious if I was ever going
    to see my font used somewhere &#40;a few years later I did, on some fanzine, and
    it felt great&#41;.
  created: '2005-04-20 09:14:17'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'As someone who gave away over 200 fonts, I think I can add something to the
    discussion. Idealism and public service did have something to do with it but,
    for me, it was a way of cutting my teeth, typographically speaking, and a way
    of determining where the public&#39;s taste lie. <BR> <BR>A lot of my earliest
    &#40;1997&#41; stuff was, in retrospect, pretty crappy &#40;mostly spacing issues,
    but some design inconsistencies, too&#41;. Practice, practice, practice, and things
    gradually improved. But progress is not made in a vacuum: I have to acknowledge
    a tremendous debt to Ilene Strizver, who helped me develop my commercial releases
    through ITC and Agfa Monotype. <BR> <BR>I probably would have continued developing
    freeware fonts while peddling commercial ones as well, if not for a few sad facts...
    <BR> <BR>a&#41; if you give stuff away, there are sorry bastards out there who
    will steal it and sell it; and <BR> <BR>b&#41; if you give stuff away, there are
    clueless individuals out there who somehow expect you to personally give them
    more of your time &#40;I want you to design a font for me, or copy someone else&#39;s
    design, or re-design your website to suit me, or...&#41;. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not
    sure which is worse, the thieves or the ingrates, but eventually I got fed up
    with feeding their kind &#40;so much for the idealismj argument&#41;. So, was
    it all worth it? For the experience AND the exposure, yes, but I wouldn&#39;t
    recommend it to everyone.'
  created: '2005-04-21 15:00:17'
- author:
    name: pablohoney77
    picture: 109996
  body: nick! i&#39;m a great fan of your work and hopefully i don&#39;t fall into
    the ingrates category &#40;definately not a theif&#41;. It&#39;s great to have
    you on the forum boards! but could you stop outbidding me on ebay? ;^D <BR> <BR>oh,
    and welcome to typophile!
  created: '2005-04-21 20:28:10'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: A related mini-interview with Dirk Uhlenbrock of Fontomas fame  <BR>can be
    read at <a href="http://typographi.com/000979.php" target="_blank"> Typographica</a>.
  created: '2005-04-21 20:40:49'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: 'Amy: Sergei was undoubtedly being ironic. The free software philosophy is
    that sharing code that one writes is a public service, much like offering advice
    and help when asked. <BR> <BR>I just did a little surfing, and found that most
    of the standard fonts shipping as free software are missing from dafonts; I checked
    the Nimbus family &#40;from URW, clones of the Adobe Postscript base set&#41;,
    Vera, and Utopia. Does anybody have more insight into this?'
  created: '2005-04-21 21:22:25'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I don&#39;t know if URW Nimbus were clones of Adobe Postscript base set, but
    I do know that URW Nimbus Sans is on of the best Helvetica families around.
  created: '2005-04-21 22:04:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Raph - Nimbus a clone of the Adobe Postscript set? Where do you get your information
    from?  <BR> <BR>1. Adobe wouldn&#39;t have Helvetica at all if it weren&#39;t
    for URW, because Adobe couldn&#39;t get their Helvetica actually to work with
    ATM until URW kindly helped them out with completely new data. You know, it&#39;s
    one thing to acquire the rights to the name &#39;Helvetica&#39;. It&#39;s quite
    another to be able to digitize and manufacture it. That Adobe could not do. <BR>
    <BR>2. URW Nimbus is considered by Helvetica experts to be one of the three families
    of improved Helveticas, which comprise [whatever Berthold calls the version of
    AkGro which is in fact an improved Helvetica - is it AG Buch? I forget], Helvetica
    Neue, and URW Nimbus. I believe I have those in the right chronological order.
    An improved Helvetica was actually first designed by Berthold; Linotype then did
    its version, and Karow considers Nimbus Sans to be an amalgamation of the best
    ideas of all three. Karow&#39;s claim is not idle boasting, as JM&#39;s post illustrates.
    <BR> <BR>In any case, Berthold was first with the idea of fixing some of Helvetica&#39;s
    more egregious faults. Lino Neue Helvetica was a response.
  created: '2005-04-22 03:45:32'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Nimbus a clone of the Adobe Postscript set? Where does this &#40;mis&#41;information
    come from?  <BR> <BR>1. Adobe wouldn&#39;t have Helvetica at all if it weren&#39;t
    for URW, because Adobe couldn&#39;t get their Helvetica actually to work with
    ATM until URW kindly helped them out by supplying completely new data. You know,
    it&#39;s one thing to acquire the rights to the name &#39;Helvetica&#39;. It&#39;s
    quite another to be able to digitize and manufacture it. That Adobe could not
    do. <BR> <BR>2. URW Nimbus is considered by Helvetica experts to be one of the
    three principal families of improved Helveticas, which comprise [whatever Berthold
    calls the version of AkGro which is in fact an improved Helvetica - is it AG Buch?
    I forget], Helvetica Neue, and URW Nimbus. I believe I have those in the right
    chronological order. An improved Helvetica was actually first designed by Berthold;
    Linotype then did its version, and Karow considers Nimbus Sans to be an amalgamation
    of the best ideas of all three. Karow&#39;s claim is not idle boasting, as JM&#39;s
    post illustrates. <BR> <BR>In any case, Berthold was first with the idea of fixing
    some of Helvetica&#39;s more egregious faults. Lino Neue Helvetica was a response.  <BR>
    <BR>And by the way, even if Nimbus Sans were a clone of Helvetica, how could it
    ever be viewed as a clone of the &#39;Adobe Postscript set&#39;? URW was cloning
    Helvetica &#40;in fact it was its first job&#41; when John Warnock was still in
    short pants. Surely a quick Google search . . . ?
  created: '2005-04-22 03:53:52'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: '&#34;whatever Berthold calls the version of AkGro which is in fact an improved
    Helvetica - is it AG Buch?&#34;  <BR> <BR>Bill, if my memory isn'
  created: '2005-04-22 04:01:56'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Bill&#39;s correct, H
  created: '2005-04-22 08:46:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '&#62;So, was it all worth it? For the experience AND the exposure, yes, but
    I wouldn&#39;t recommend it to everyone. <BR> <BR>Standard gangsta rapstar apologia.'
  created: '2005-04-22 11:00:04'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: You both are right Bill and Yves, actually the only Akzienz Grotesk feature
    I could find in this font is the name. <BR> <BR>It
  created: '2005-04-23 01:43:12'
date: '2005-04-13 12:54:42'
title: Giving it away

---
