---
author:
  name: enne_son
  picture: 109487
body: "In a recent paper  [ \u201CHow Does Arabic Orthographic Connectivity Modulate
  Brain Activity During Visual Word Recognition: An ERP Study\u201D <em>Brain Topography</em>,
  April 2013 ] Haitham Taha, Raphiq Ibrahim and Asaid Khateb show \u201Cthat instead
  of slowing down reading, orthographic connectivity in Arabic skilled readers seems
  to impact positively the reading process already during the early stages of word
  recognition.\r\n\r\nThe practical relevance of this for typographers and type-designers
  working on Latin-based scripts might be in the realm of ligaturization and contextual
  alternatives. It also has a bearing on discussions of how reading works. A good
  theory of how reading works should explain why or how connectivity has a positive
  impact on processing. It should explain why ligaturization and devising contextual
  alternatives might be beneficial.\r\n\r\n<strong>Abstract</strong> One of the unique
  features of the Arabic orthography that differentiates it from many other alphabetical
  ones is the fact that most letters connect obligatorily to each other. Hence, these
  letters change their forms according to the location in the word (i.e. beginning,
  middle, or end), leading to the suggestion that connectivity adds a visual load
  which negatively impacts reading in Arabic. In this study, we investigated the effects
  of the orthographic connectivity on the time course of early brain electric responses
  during the visual word recognition. For this purpose, we collected event-related
  potentials (ERPs) from adult skilled readers while performing a lexical decision
  task using fully connected (Cw), partially connected and nonconnected words (NCw).
  Reaction times variance was higher and accuracy was lower in NCw compared to Cw
  words. ERPs analysis revealed significant amplitude and latency differences between
  Cw and NCw at posterior electrodes during the N170 component which implied the temporo-occipital
  areas. Our findings show that instead of slowing down reading, orthographic connectivity
  in Arabic skilled readers seems to impact positively the reading process already
  during the early stages of word recognition. These results are discussed in relation
  to previous observations in the literature.\r\n\r\nAvailable for a fee online at:
  http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10548-012-0241-2\r\n\r\nWhile seeming to adopt the \u2018parallel
  letter recognition\u2019 based orthographic processing framework implicit in the
  \u201CInteractive Activation Model\u201D of Rumelhart and McClelland and in the
  \u201CLocal Combination Detection\u201D model of Stanislas Dehaene as their starting
  point in their \u201CIntroduction,\u201D the authors use ideas that appear to be
  at odds with such accounts in their \u201CDiscussion,\u201D specifically the idea
  that  \u201CN170 ERPs could represent a logographic processing strategy in visual
  word recognition,\u201D which is the result of more frequent exposure to connected
  words. The authors draw this explanation from: G. Simon, L. Petit, C. Bernard and
  M Rebai, \u201CN170 ERPs could represent a logographic processing strategy in visual
  word recognition.\u201D [ <em>Behavioral and Brain Functions</em>, 3:21, 2007 ].
  For the authors of the Simon, et.al., paper, a logographic processing strategy is
  \u201Ca more holistic process where words are processed as a global visual pattern
  [ rather than on an orthographic basis as a string of letters ].\u201D\r\n\r\nFor
  my part, I'm not convinced the N170 ERPs actually represent a <em>logographic</em>
  processing strategy in visual word recognition. For typophiles, conceiving of word
  recognition in \u201Cmore holistic\u201D terms might seem attractive, but it\u2019s
  unclear what \u201Cprocessed as a global visual pattern\u201D means. Currently prominent
  developmental theories of reading acquisition distinguish three phases, 1) a pre-alphabetic
  logographic phase when readers recognize words (for example, those appearing in
  their everyday environments, such as the names of restaurants, brands of candy,
  their own or friends\u2019 names printed on cubbies at school) on the basis of salient
  or distinctive visual cues and contextual features in or around the written words;
  2) an alphabetic phase when readers use spelling-sound rules to read words;  3)
  an orthographic phase when words are recognized by larger spelling patterns, especially
  morphemic units. [ This description is freely adapted from the work of Linnea C.
  Ehri. ] The idea that in skilled readers the N170 ERPs represent a <em>logographic</em>
  processing strategy in visual word recognition doesn\u2019t seem to recognize the
  perceptual learning in early visual cortex which takes place during and after the
  orthographic phase. \r\n\r\nMy alternative to the \u201Cglobal visual pattern\u201D
  idea is an \u201Cintrinsic integration\u201D account. I think the facilitating effect
  of connectivity actually has to do with the fact that connectivity frustrates the
  channeling of <em>feature</em> (closure, aspect, extendedness) and <em>role-unit</em>
  or <em>glypheme</em> (stroke and counter) level information into independent letter
  slots, as the Interactive Activation Model assumes. In an script system characterized
  by connectivity, feature-analytic processing encourages an holistic or across-the-word
  gathering of fine-grained, location-specific role-unit level information. A re-coding
  of words at this more elemental (than letter) level, and more fine-grained than
  \u201Cglobal visual pattern\u201D level probably represents a 4th phase in reading
  acquisition, and is the result of perceptual learning at the neural level during
  phase 3.\r\n\r\nSo connectivity through ligaturization and contextual alternatives
  in the late-alphabetic and orthographic phase might actually facilitate the emergence
  of the rapid automatic \u201Cvisual word-form resolution\u201D capabilites fundamental
  to immersive reading of extended text."
comments:
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: That link taks me to a paid download, however I can access it for free within
    the university databases. How are you accessing this so you do not need to pay?
  created: '2013-05-13 04:15:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good news. Not at all surprising.  :-)\r\n\r\nThe way this fits into my own
    model of reading is that compound shapes -even though they are harder to extract
    the constituent letters from- are \"closer\" to the content being conveyed, hence
    more efficient. And we can handle many more shapes than the few dozen of most
    writing systems.\r\n\r\nSpecifically concerning ligation, I mentioned such potential
    benefits as part of my \"Designers of the World, Ligate!\" talk at the Thessaloniki
    conference of 2004, and on Typophile even previous to that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-13 05:53:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter, to clarify one aspect of the abstract, when the authors refer to 'partially
    connected and nonconnected words', am I correct in thinking that they're referring
    to normal Arabic words in which right-joining-only letters either occur in combination
    with dual-joining letters (hence partially connected) or make up all the letters
    in a word (hence non-connected)?\r\n____\r\n\r\nLATER\r\n\r\nAh yes, that is what
    they meant."
  created: '2013-05-13 08:17:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Chris, I am also able to access some papers through university databases.
  created: '2013-05-13 12:40:37'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Yes, but on your original post you say \u201C<em>Available for a fee online
    at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1007/s10548-012-0241-2</em>\u201D\r\n\r\nIs this a typo?
    It is not a link to a free download.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/notfree_3927.jpg]"
  created: '2013-05-13 16:10:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Not 'free', 'fee'. Not a typo, a misreading. :)
  created: '2013-05-13 18:05:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "For comparison, here are the stimuli words from the table presented in the
    naskh script. Note how the nesting of unconnected letter sequences produces more
    unified word images with more balanced spacing.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stimulinaskh_5849.png]\r\n\r\nThese
    sorts of differences might not alter the overall results of the experiment, and
    I'm not arguing that orthographic connectivity does not provide the advantage
    described, only that the experiment might have been better designed to eliminate
    the possible effect of abnormal letter spacing."
  created: '2013-05-13 18:41:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Having now read some of the article, my main concerns are with the form of
    Arabic used to display the word stimuli to participants. This isn't entirely clear
    from the article description, and no illustration is provided of the actual stimuli
    as presented. But this table shows examples of the different classes of stimuli
    words, and my concern is that this also represents the form of Arabic shown to
    participants in the experiment.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stimuli_5371.png]\r\n\r\nNow,
    because the experiment is comparing results for stimuli within a single style
    of Arabic text, the fact that this is a very flat font using Simplified Arabic
    forms that fails to represent traditional Arabic letter shaping and joining behaviour
    isn't necessarily problematic in terms of what the researchers were testing for.
    More problematic, I think, is the very poor spacing shown in this table, in particular
    the lack of kerning for non-connecting pairs in the PCw and NCw examples. If this
    accurately represents the stimuli as shown to participants, then the test may
    have a significant flaw, because the words as thus displayed are abnormal, and
    do not reflect normal written or good quality typographic practice. Of course,
    Arab readers are sometimes presented with text that lacks kerning, just as English
    readers are, but finding a significant advantage for Cw stimuli in badly spaced
    text is not the same as finding a general advantage.\r\n\r\n[Spacing is also very
    bad within the Cw stimuli as shown in the table. Basically, this is a very bad
    font. But since the nature of the spacing problems affect connecting and non-connecting
    sequences in different ways, I don't think they cancel each other out.]"
  created: '2013-05-13 18:43:27'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: I think your concerns about the possible confounding effect of bad spacing
    are very relevant John. And effectively shown. Probably I'll alert the authors
    to this thread.
  created: '2013-05-13 19:01:16'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: I'm not sure I understand the premise of this study. Is it trying to establish
    that a script that has evolved to be connected is less readable when it's broken?
    I'd imagine any script is less readable when its orthography is corrupted.
  created: '2013-05-13 19:23:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: No, Ben, it isn't using a disconnected variant of the Arabic script, it is
    comparing Arabic words in which all the letters are connected with those in which
    only some letters are connected and those in which no letters are connected. This
    is a natural phenomenon within the normal Arabic orthography, arising from the
    fact that some Arabic letters only join on the right side, so exist only in isolated
    and final forms. [This is why the common statement one encounters that the shape
    of an Arabic letter depends on its position in a word is not accurate. The shape
    of an Arabic letter depends on its immediate adjacency.]
  created: '2013-05-13 19:32:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I did not say that the style of font might invalidate the results. I explicitly
    said that the style of font in itself may not be an issue, not for the reasons
    you give -- commonality of the style --, but because the study is comparing results
    within a single style. This is what I wrote:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Now, because the
    experiment is comparing results for stimuli within a single style of Arabic text,
    the fact that this is a very flat font using Simplified Arabic forms that fails
    to represent traditional Arabic letter shaping and joining behaviour isn't necessarily
    problematic in terms of what the researchers were testing for.</blockquote>"
  created: '2013-05-13 19:50:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, assuming that font is in fact the one used in the actual experiments:\r\n-
    It's actually the sort of thing most Arabic readers see most of the time. Well,
    not the poor spacing as much but the \"flatness\". Back when I was still living
    in Lebanon -typographically the most advanced Arab nation- newspapers, textbooks,
    etc. mostly used that style, and I think that's still mostly true. So saying the
    font might invalidate the results I don't think makes sense.\r\n- I would say
    that the bad typography -especially the spacing- can only <em>reinforce</em> the
    findings! If as you say \"properly\" set Arabic is more readable (which I agree
    in terms of spacing but am less sure in terms of \"script grammar\") then the
    idea that boumas bypass letterwise decipherment (where necessary/possible) can
    only be helped with better typesetting.\r\n\r\nBTW was the reading in the experiment
    foveal only, or what I might call \"full-spectrum\"? If it was the former then
    Peter's view that we read boumas even in the fovea becomes stronger (and Larson's
    view becomes even weaker).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I'd imagine any script is less readable
    when its orthography is corrupted.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNot necessarily. I think
    the letterwise-decipherment model says that when the letters are individually
    decipherable (since people do know them individually) reading should not suffer.
    Note that any Arabic letter does occur in normal text disconnected on both sides.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    if the experiment was foveal-only, we're not really talking about \"readable\",
    but more like \"decipherable\". But if boumas are showing up even in mere decipherment,
    they must be running rampant in immersive reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-13 19:50:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh, sorry. So the passage I'm contesting is this:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>finding
    a significant advantage for Cw stimuli in badly spaced text is not the same as
    finding a general advantage.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt's not the same - it's better.
    :-)  I mean in terms of revealing the mechanics of reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-13 19:55:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>I would say that the bad spacing can only reinforce the findings!
    If as you say \"properly\" set Arabic is more readable ... then the idea that
    boumas bypass letterwise decipherment ... can only be helped with better typesetting.</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    really should be noted that the term bouma does not occur anywhere in the article,
    and you're making extrapolations that the researchers do not."
  created: '2013-05-13 19:59:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "In the concluding discussion of the paper, the authors note that \r\n\r\n<blockquote>Another
    factor that might explain these results are the differences in the physical shape
    of the orthographic patterns of the written words. Indeed, the Cw have no spaces
    between the letters while such spaces exist inside the NCw. These spaces may contribute,
    at least partly, to the time consumption during the visual processing of the NCw,
    due for instance to longer gaze duration (Roman and Pavard 1987), higher number
    of fixation/saccades etc.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn other words, they acknowledge
    that their results may be affected by the internal spaces in the non-connected
    sequences, although they do not register that the size of these spaces might be
    a factor. They go on, rightly, to suggest that this would need to be independently
    tested using eye tracking methodology. They also suggest that differences in spatial
    frequency between connected and unconnected sequences might be a factor:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>...it
    is possible to assume that NCw words are of a higher SF than Cw words and thus
    at least some of these differences might be explained by such physical differences.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAnd
    this is the actual conclusion drawn by the authors of the study:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The
    data presented here show for the first time that words\u2019 connectivity does
    not impact negatively reading and word recognition processes in skilled readers
    of Arabic. Our analysis shows that processing connected letter forms, which are
    standard and inevitable in written Arabic, does not present any particular difficulty.
    However, further research still needed to investigate how the effects observed
    here compare really to word frequency and to spatial frequency effects among readers
    of Arabic.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn other words, their results show that connected
    script does not have a negative impact on word recognition for experienced readers
    -- and that is really interesting and contrary to much prediction or assumption
    --, but the apparent positive advantage <em>cannot</em> be definitely explained
    as a result of connectivity independent of other factors."
  created: '2013-05-13 20:07:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I would be shocked if they used \"bouma\". I would also be surprised to see
    psychology researchers successfully extrapolate the findings to practical type
    design decisions. That's our job.  :-)\r\n\r\nIf reading connected Arabic is indeed
    faster* than disconnected Arabic -especially for skilled readers- I feel even
    more confident that what I call boumas are the key to reading (as opposed to Larson's
    parallel letterwise decipherment). But \"confident\" does not mean \"dead sure\".\r\n\r\n*
    Note the \"impact positively the reading process\".\r\n\r\nBTW maybe Tankard should
    make a \"normal\" version of Blue Island* for comparison testing... Although nobody's
    used to reading much text in it, so it wouldn't make for as good a test as with
    Arabic.\r\n\r\n* http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/blue-island/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-13 20:13:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>contrary to much prediction or assumption</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOnly
    by people who don't realize how powerful our brains are and/or want Arabic to
    look more Western.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-13 20:19:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...look more Western.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, the example cited in the
    paper was a study that involved adolescent Israeli Arabs who were learning Hebrew
    as a second language, and found that the particular visual test used resulted
    in participants performing better with the non-native, unconnected Hebrew script
    than with their native, connected Arabic script. The authors of <em>that</em>
    study explained this result in terms of the complexity of the Arabic orthography.
    Since they're cognitive psychologists, I doubt if they have any problem realising
    how powerful our brains are, and they don't appear to have a bias towards 'looking
    more western': they were comparing two Semitic scripts.\r\n\r\nReally, Hrant,
    you should actually read these articles."
  created: '2013-05-13 21:44:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>you should actually read these articles.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\nHowever:\r\n-
    I don't see how any of that counters my statement that many people who assume
    connected Arabic is hard to read do so because of an -unfounded- assumption that
    Western writing is superior*. That's the same place Latinized fonts (partly) come
    from, and we both agree those do exist.\r\n- Cognitive psychology is a job, and
    you have to show results. Saying \"this is more complex than we can handle\" (which
    I believe is still the case) doesn't get you grant money. So the brain is simplified
    in order to arrive at conclusions. This is also why every single such study ends
    with a statement that \"more research is needed\"...\r\n\r\n* Reminding me of
    Panos Vasilliou's statement that descenders are bad for reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-13 22:04:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>I don't see how any of that counters my statement that many people...</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    didn't say 'many people'. You said that prediction or assumption of a negative
    impact from connectivity was <em>only</em> made by people who don't realise etc.\r\n\r\nIn
    the case of the study that we're talking about, prediction is based on results
    and conclusions of previous studies, which is how science works: you make predictions
    based on prior observation and then come up with new ways of testing to see if
    these predictions are accurate or were based on errors in the prior observation,
    e.g. lack of adequate controls."
  created: '2013-05-13 22:37:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just to be clear, I wasn't thinking much about scientists when it comes to
    predicting/assuming that connectedness is a problem - I was thinking of designers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-13 23:55:19'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Best make sure you start off with good data, or you'll certainly come up with
    something the Sirius Cybernetics Corporation would be proud of.
  created: '2013-05-14 12:53:52'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@John Hudson:\r\n<cite>The authors of <strong>that</strong> study explained
    this result in terms of the complexity of the Arabic orthography. Since they're
    cognitive psychologists, I doubt if they have any problem realising how powerful
    our brains are, and they don't appear to have a bias towards 'looking more western':
    they were comparing two Semitic scripts.</cite>\r\n\r\nI find that conclusion
    highly unwarranted. If Hebrew shares a characteristic with English/Swedish/French
    and so on that Arabic does not, a bias towards the Latin script as the paradigm
    for writing systems would also favor those Semitic scripts which more closely
    resemble it.\r\n\r\nAnd researchers are biased towards easily testable and falsifiable
    explanations which don't involve attributing mysterious powers to the human brain.\r\n\r\nMy
    biases tell me that the bouma is likely to be the source of the observed phenomenon,
    and they also tell me that a short learning curve is <em>also</em> an important
    virtue in a script. (The Chinese script does inflate the cost of mass literacy
    so that it's only achievable by First World countries like Japan; that, at least,
    is indisputable. Or is it? In some quarters, claims by the People's Republic to
    have achieved universal literacy are accepted.) Thus, even if the Arabic script
    is superior for the skilled reader, it's not sufficient reason to switch.\r\n\r\nAt
    least, the Turks switched to the Latin script, which, because it has lowercase
    with ascenders and descenders, also has quite a bit of bouma in its words. \r\n\r\nYet,
    both the Jewish people and those Asians influenced by Chinese culture have been
    distinguished by their success, even under adverse conditions. Despite Hebrew
    being low on bouma and legibility, and Chinese being low on bouma and having a
    high learning curve. As I've noted, I think the <em>bar mitzvah</em> and the Imperial
    civil service examinations are the explanation - in both cases, literacy is tied
    in with cultural identity, and so sitting still for education conflicts less with
    the emotions of the hot-blooded youth."
  created: '2013-05-15 13:33:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't know Arabic script, but I think it is possible that in a script whose
    basic form is connected, like Arabic, or in a different way various Indic scripts,
    is read most easily in a connected form. But it may also be that one whose basic
    form is unconnected, like latin or Hebrew, is read most easily unconnected. At
    least to me all latin cursive forms are less readable than the separate ones.
    \u2014And I think that ligatures in an unconnected script are a compromise. \r\n\r\nThe
    brain is quite capable of developing a different processing structure for a different
    script. A different issue, but which is illustrative, is that I read that native
    Hebrew speakers and readers have a 'root form' area in the brain. I would imagine
    that this is also true in other Semitic languages. In English, which has roots
    from many different languages, we generally don't have an awareness of roots.
    \r\n\r\nBy the way, I don't see why the 'bouma' in Hebrew has to be any worse
    than English. Or Chinese. At least in Peter's conception, the visual word form
    is a matter of the pattern of 'role units', salient features of letters, across
    the word, not simply external envelope. \r\n\r\nChinese children learning a few
    characters a day through elementary school, in a language they already understand
    aurally, is not a huge difficulty, though it takes diligence. And they tell me
    that after the first 2000 it gets easier. Trying to learn both language and characters
    as an adult is unfortunately extremely time consuming. So my impression is that
    the literacy barrier is much higher for adult foreigners than natives.  "
  created: '2013-05-15 14:36:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, note that the connections in Latin are mostly brute-force, while
    in Arabic they generally affect the shape of the letter, thus effectively providing
    more information.\r\n\r\nTo repeat something I've said now and again: aesthetic
    ligation is irrelevant to reading, but judicious ligation intended to reinforce/diverge
    boumas can help. The example I like to give is this: if we -consistently- used
    an \"st\" ligature in \"quest\" but not one in \"guest\", that would help.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I
    don't see why the 'bouma' in Hebrew has to be any worse than English.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt's
    because the farther from the fovea a bouma occurs (noting the/my view that more
    than half of reading happens in the parafovea) the blurrier it gets, which makes
    internal information less important than envelope information. This is by far
    the biggest reason I can think of for the Latin x-height to be too large sometimes,
    and for all-caps text to be harder to read.\r\n\r\nSo yes, it's not only external
    envelopes that matter, but those do play a big role.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-15 14:41:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Can we please stop talking about boumas as if they''re something that exist
    in a script or in a typeface. A bouma is a <em>perceptual</em> unit: it exists
    in the perception, not in the thing perceived. It is not analogous to a letter
    or a word, which are units in writing. You can''t look at text and point to boumas,
    and there''s no guarantee that the boumas I perceive in reading a text are the
    same as the boumas that you perceive.'
  created: '2013-05-15 18:06:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>A different issue, but which is illustrative, is that I read that
    native Hebrew speakers and readers have a 'root form' area in the brain. I would
    imagine that this is also true in other Semitic languages.</em>\r\n\r\nYes. Arabic,
    like Hebrew, has a triconsonantal root system for most nouns and verbs. This presumably
    is one of the reasons why abjad systems works fairly well for Semitic languages:
    one can easily identify words of a shared root by their consonant sequences independent
    of intermediary vowels, which may be either absent or written as marks around
    the consonants."
  created: '2013-05-15 18:16:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bouma: agreed, on all counts. Where did who mess up?\r\n\r\nBTW, although
    you can never know where a bouma is, you can:\r\n- Take educated guesses, which
    can help. For example you can tell that \"readjust\" is much easier to read when
    it's hyphenated. That's not a type-design thing, but still.\r\n- Conduct rigorous
    testing to develop smart algorithms that reveal the actual numeric probabilities
    of where the boumas are. The problem is that would probably take more money/time
    than even Microsoft could muster; if the shareholders found out it would be hard
    to explain exactly how that helps them get a bigger yacht.\r\n\r\nHebrew versus
    Arabic: their shared tri-consonantal foundation is certainly relevant (although
    less to readability than legibility), but it remains that in terms of glyph structure
    and word composition Hebrew is much closer to Latin.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-15 18:22:52'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Hrant] <em>[\u2026] if we -consistently- used an \"st\" ligature in \"quest\"
    but not one in \"guest\", that would help [\u2026] </em>\r\n\r\n[John Hudson]
    <em>Can we please stop talking about boumas as if they're something that exist
    in a script or in a typeface. A bouma is a perceptual unit: it exists in the perception,
    not in the thing perceived. </em>\r\n\r\nIf we take our cue from the Arabic, a
    better strategy for diverging the boumas might be to ligature the >gu< bigram
    in >guest< at the top between the >g< and >u< and to extend to right the bottom
    serif on the descender of the >q< in >quest< so it undercuts the u. One could
    also extend the left-side of the tail of the g to the right. The perturbation
    at the left end of the word would cue the visual system to where the distinguishing
    visual information lies.\r\n\r\nI do think boumas are real, and that in immersive
    reading the visual system uses them. A word is a spatially bounded map \u2014
    bou[nded]ma[p] \u2014 of prototypically structured sub-letter shapes or letter-shape
    primitives. I like to call these letter-shape primitives role-units. Ascenders,
    descenders, bowls and counters are role-units. The composite shape to the left
    of the stem in the u is a role-unit. The angular components of the x are role-units.
    It seems likely to me that the surface form of a role-unit in a letter in a typeface
    in a script can be modified while it\u2019s prototypical or deep-structure is
    kept."
  created: '2013-05-15 18:58:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Great thinking on \"guest\" vs. \"quest\". I was just trying to find a functional
    raison-d'\xEAtre for the \"st\" ligature since it has the luxury of already existing
    in many fonts.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>It seems likely to me that the surface form
    of a role-unit in a letter in a typeface in a script can be modified while it\u2019s
    prototypical or deep-structure is kept.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nExactly.\r\nInnovate
    in readability while appeasing legibility (which BTW is the thrust of my old Alphabet
    Reform evil plan for world domination).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-15 19:07:53'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[John Hudson, re: Arabic] <em> [\u2026] one can easily identify words of
    a shared root by their consonant sequences independent of intermediary vowels
    [\u2026] </em>\r\n\r\nAlthough meaning relations in western languages don't work
    on a system of shared consonantal roots, readers of the western alphabetic scripts
    can more easily identify words when vwls are left out than they can when only
    _o_e_s are written."
  created: '2013-05-15 19:11:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>Although meaning relations in western languages don't work on
    a system of shared consonantal roots, readers of the western alphabetic scripts
    can more easily identify words when vwls are left out than they can when only
    _o_e_s are written.</em>\r\n\r\nI think that is simply an observation that language
    is predominantly a consonantal affair, which makes sense because we can produce
    more clearly distinct consonant phonemes than vowels, and consonants sounds are
    fairly precise while vowel sounds are fluid. If we had vocal systems that worked
    the other way round, so favoured vowel sequences as the main means of distinguishing
    words, we would presumably have developed writing systems with more vowel signs,
    and would find vowel-only writing to be easier to read than consonant-only writing."
  created: '2013-05-15 19:22:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>...prototypically structured sub-letter shapes or letter-shape
    primitives. I like to call these letter-shape primitives role-units. Ascenders,
    descenders, bowls and counters are role-units.</em>\r\n\r\nPart of the genius
    of the Perso-Arabic script is that it classifies some sub-letter shapes as preservable
    and some as dispensable, such that the graphotactics of Arabic writing largely
    involve replacing the dispensable parts of letters with connecting strokes that
    join together the preservable parts. A large number of Arabic letters, in their
    isolated forms, consist of a preservable initial shape and a dispensable tail.
    When the letters are joined, the tail stroke is replaced with a connecting stroke.
    This is the general rule; there are, of course, exceptions, some particular to
    individual styles and mostly involving cursive construction of dual-joining (medial)
    forms. So for example, the general pattern can be observed in the graphotactics
    of isolated, initial and final \u0639, but the medial form represents a cursive
    construction derived from the preservable part but visually disinct in result.\r\n____\r\n\r\nPS.
    Simplified Arabic can be analysed as applying the general pattern more strictly,
    such that many of the cursive formations of medial letters are replaced by straight
    duplications of the initial form preservable part."
  created: '2013-05-15 19:26:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "[[http://clic.ub.edu/sites/default/files/pagines/IOVS%20%282012%29%2053%289%29%205452-5461.pdf|Here]]
    is a pretty interesting effort to compare reading speeds in different languages,
    including those with latin script and Hebrew, Arabic, Chinese and Japanese. It
    turns out to be a bear of a problem. \r\n\r\nThe authors compare rates of reading
    letters, words, syllables, and whole texts. The problem is that some languages
    have a lot more letters (Finnish) or syllables. So, for example, English and Spanish
    seem to be at the top for words per minute, but Chinese, which is slow in words
    per minute, is faster for reading a whole text, because of the economy of Chinese
    in terms of words needed to express the same thought\u2014it's not a conjugated
    language, for a start. \r\n\r\nI don't know what to make of this. There do seem
    to be differences in decoding text, but their influence may be swamped by other
    factors. It may be that the cognitive constraints are much more significant than
    visual decoding ones.  "
  created: '2013-05-15 22:55:16'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "><em>  \u2026When the letters are joined, the tail stroke is replaced with
    a connecting stroke. \u2026</em>\r\n\r\nBTW, I could not find any info on how
    ACE's strategy in typesetting \u201Cskeletons\u201D of Arabic words differs from
    the OpenType\u2019s one.  The PDF explainations of \u03B1- and \u03B2-stages are
    not very helpful to me,\u200A\u2014\u200AI do not read/write Arabic.  And the
    next stage is not even documented\u2026"
  created: '2013-05-16 00:41:57'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "The article William Berkson was referring to:\r\n\r\nTrauzettel-Klosinski,
    S., Dietz, K. & the IReST Study Group (2012). <a href=\"http://clic.ub.edu/sites/default/files/pagines/IOVS%20%282012%29%2053%289%29%205452-5461.pdf\">Standardized
    assessment of reading performance: The new International Reading Speed Texts IReST</a>.
    <em>Investigative Ophthalmology & Visual Science, 53(9)</em>, 5452\u20135461.
    (PDF, 553 KB)\r\n\r\nIf possible, best to avoid hyper links such as \u201Cclick
    here\u201D or \u201Cthis article\u201D (especially when they are linked to PDFs
    and/or initiate downloads) as they provide no information regarding their destination,
    are less searchable, and provide accessibility issues to visually impaired readers
    using text-to-speech software."
  created: '2013-05-16 21:24:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: It's also a good idea to test your links and remove trailing html br/ tags
    from within pasted URLs. :)
  created: '2013-05-16 21:35:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: 'And that too ;) '
  created: '2013-05-16 21:46:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks, Chris, will do this in the future. '
  created: '2013-05-17 04:11:44'
date: '2013-05-13 02:52:14'
node_type: forum
title: 'Orthographic Connectivity in Arabic Facilitates Word Recognition for Skilled
  Readers '

---
