---
author:
  name: Michael K Auggenthaler
body: "Hi Typophiles,\r\n\r\nI'm a publisher and designer and need to establish good
  type design parameters for Russian books. I don't speak Russian and therefore can't
  come up with settings that Russian readers would consider ideal for sustained reading.
  For English text and the usual text faces, the ideal number of characters (including
  spaces and punctuation) is about 67 per line. Has anyone heard of an ideal number
  for Russian? Grateful for any lead. :)"
comments:
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "AFAIU, all you need to care about is the width of the column, the font, and
    the fontsize.  Given this, the number of characters would be decided by the typesetting
    process into a suitable average number of characters for line for a given (sub)language.\r\n\r\nSo
    instead of what you did, the question one may ask could be: \u201Cgiven that we
    typeset English so that the average area of the character is 3mm\xB2, should we
    use a smaller font size to compensate for a larger average width of Russian letters?\u201D
    \ (Or for longer average length of word? ;-)"
  created: '2013-05-24 22:34:08'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<blockquote>Has anyone heard of an ideal number for Russian?</blockquote>In
    Russian a lot has been written on the allowable range of line lengths. Most recommendations
    or requirements express the line measure in \u2018kvadrats\u2019 and their fractions.
    One kvadrat equals 4 ciceros or 48 Didot points (in German those measurement units
    are known as <em>Konkordanzen</em>).\r\n\r\nNational Industrial Standards (GoSTs)
    used to be strictly enforced in Soviet printing industry. After the fall of Communism
    they were replaced by the Sanitary Rules and Norms (SanPiNs), very similar to
    GoSTs. \r\n\r\nJust one example. The <a href=\"http://verstka.otrok.ru/law/bv.html\">SanPiN
    1.2.1253-03, 06.15.2003</a> (<em>Hygienic requirements to the book editions for
    adult readers</em>) stipulates, among other things, that<blockquote>3.2.2. In
    the editions of the first category, with the font size of the main and the auxiliary
    texts larger than 10 point, the minimal line measure should be no shorter than
    3 \xBE kvadrats (68 mm); the maximal line measure, the typeface, and the extent
    of the auxiliary text are not subject to regulation.\u2019</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn
    his book <em><a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/The-Complete-Manual-Typography-Setting/dp/0321127307/ref=sr_1_cc_1?s=aps&ie=UTF8&qid=1369444386&sr=1-1-catcorr&keywords=The+Complete+Manual+of+Typography%3A+A+Guide+to+Setting+Perfect+Type\">The
    Complete Manual of Typography: A Guide to Setting Perfect Type</a></em> (Berkley:
    Peachpit Press, 2002) James Felici suggests that <blockquote>the optimal line
    length is between one and a half and\r\ntwo times the length of the lowercase
    alphabet.</blockquote> Mind you, the English alphabet has 26 letters, and the
    Russian 33\u2026 Is the Russian optimal line length between 50 and 66 characters?
    \r\n\r\nOne can come to the similar numbers (49\u201365 characters) by comparing
    the <a href=\"http://www.globallanguages.com/en/news/GlobalCommunicator/archives/GC_67_200805/fl_1.php\">average
    word length</a>: 5.1 letters in English, and 6.36 in Russian."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Michael K Auggenthaler
    body: "<blockquote>In his book The Complete Manual of Typography: A Guide to Setting
      Perfect Type (Berkley: Peachpit Press, 2002) James Felici suggests that\r\n<blockquote>the
      optimal line length is between one and a half and\r\ntwo times the length of
      the lowercase alphabet.</blockquote></blockquote>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nI have looked
      a bit more into this notion and cannot confirm it. For the usual text faces
      it is more like 2.2 times the length of the lowercase English alphabet, not
      1.5-2.0.\r\n\r\n2.2 times gives you an average of 66-67 characters per line.\r\n\r\nI
      don't think this formula is directly transposable to Russian, or any other language.\r\n\r\nWe
      need to find out what the ideal number of characters is per line of Russian
      text. \r\nDoes anyone know of a preeminent typographer or type designer in Russia?
      \r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael"
    created: '2013-05-25 16:15:09'
  created: '2013-05-25 02:37:15'
- author:
    name: Michael K Auggenthaler
  body: "We're not really there yet, but we're getting closer. Thanks, guys.\r\n\r\nMaxim,
    from what I can gather, Felici's measure is based on space (measurable in picas,
    or mm), not on the number of characters. \r\n\r\nThe 6.36 average length of Russian
    words is very interesting information. Taking that number into consideration,
    we ought to pack at least as many characters into each Russian line as we do in
    English, i.e. at least 66 characters (including spaces and punctuation). Fewer
    characters per line will inevitably result in undesired variation in word spacing
    and/or too much hyphenation.\r\n\r\nRussian is generally an inflected language.
    Inflected languages are better set with smaller word spaces. This is one more
    reason to pack at least 66 characters into each line, for ideal sustainable reading.\r\n\r\nHas
    anyone in Russia researched reading comprehension vis-\xE0-vis typography? \r\n\r\n\r\nAlso,
    does anyone know of a style manual for Russian? I'm looking for the Russian equivalent
    of the \"Chicago Manual of Style.\" \r\n\r\n           http://www.amazon.com/Chicago-Manual-Style-16th-Edition/dp/0226104206/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1369488480&sr=8-1&keywords=chicago+manual\r\n\r\nWould
    be great to find something like this in Russian, for Russian.\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-25 14:44:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maxim, do those word-length numbers include wordspace? Because I always thought
    English was closer to 4 than 5. So I'm wondering if -without wordspace- the Russian
    would be <strong>5</strong>.36 instead.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-25 15:18:51'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<blockquote>does anyone know of a style manual for Russian? I\u2019m looking
    for the Russian equivalent of the \u201CChicago Manual of Style.\u201D</blockquote>AFAIK,
    there is <em>no single reference resource</em> in Russian that would address all
    those aspects of editorial style covered by the English-language style manuals,
    like Chicago, Hart\u2019s, Butcher\u2019s, etc. That information is spread around
    a great number of books on editing, copy-editing, proofreading, typesetting, book
    design, etc. Two biggest names in Russian sub-editing and copy-preparation are
    <a href=\"http://genhis.philol.msu.ru/article_169.shtml\">Alexander Reformatsky</a>
    (1900\u201378) and <a href=\"http://ru.wikipedia.org/wiki/\u041C\u0438\u043B\u044C\u0447\u0438\u043D,_\u0410\u0440\u043A\u0430\u0434\u0438\u0439_\u042D\u043C\u043C\u0430\u043D\u0443\u0438\u043B\u043E\u0432\u0438\u0447\">Arkady
    Milchin</a> (1924\u2013). <blockquote>do those word-length numbers include wordspace?
    Because I always thought English was closer to 4 than 5. So I\u2019m wondering
    if -without wordspace- the Russian would be 5.36 instead.</blockquote>The information
    on the average word length varies widely. I don\u2019t know if the numbers I\u2019ve
    referred to include word spaces. What I, like everyone else, do know from practical
    experience is that Russian copy is usually <em>longer</em> than English. Remember
    <em><a href=\"http://stbridelibrary.bigcartel.com/product/typographia-polyglotta\">Typographia
    Polyglotta</a></em>?  There the Russian version of the same text is 15 per cent
    longer than the English (of course, that percentage varies with translation).
    No wonder the maximum allowable <a href=\"https://listserv.heanet.ie/cgi-bin/wa?A2=typo-l;qg9BAA;199902162030350500\">number
    of hyphenated lines</a> in Russian is greater than in English."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Michael K Auggenthaler
    body: "<blockquote>Two biggest names in Russian sub-editing and copy-preparation
      are Alexander Reformatsky (1900\u201378) and Arkady Milchin (1924\u2013).</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThanks,
      Maxim. \r\n\r\nOne of my colleagues in Russia is now locating their writings.\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael"
    created: '2013-05-27 15:08:04'
  created: '2013-05-25 16:54:12'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: As I recall, only isalpha(3) counts.
  created: '2013-05-25 23:06:47'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "> \u2026 <em>we ought to pack at least as many characters into each Russian
    line as we do in English, i.e. at least 66 characters (including spaces and punctuation).
    Fewer characters per line will inevitably result in undesired variation in word
    spacing and/or too much hyphenation.</em>\r\n\r\nThis makes absolutely no sense.
    \ As I already said, one should take into account two facts: the average length
    of words (in characters) is larger in Russian, and the average width of characters
    (in ems) is larger in Cyrillic.\r\n\r\nAnd, given that, it is not surprising that
    the <em>expectations</em> of the readers are also very different.  For example,
    the Russian analogue of the Chicago manual of style (I have it scanned, but do
    not remember where it is now; it was published about \u201964, and AFAIK, was
    not reprinted) says that \u201Cfor the purpose of rapid-delivery typography\u201D
    (newspapers etc.) more than 8 hyphenated lines in sequence should be avoided.
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\nI also have heard that for best results, one should compensate for
    larger average widths by making the spacing between words larger.  (Fortunately,
    PDFTeX now allows overriding the \u201Cwidth of space\u201D provided in the font
    by the user-specified amount.  Unfortunately, hyphenation of TeX can\u2019t be
    tuned from its English defaults\u200A\u2014\u200Athe style allows up to 3 hyphenated
    lines in sequence.)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Michael K Auggenthaler
    body: "<blockquote>> \u2026 we ought to pack at least as many characters into
      each Russian line as we do in English, i.e. at least 66 characters (including
      spaces and punctuation). Fewer characters per line will inevitably result in
      undesired variation in word spacing and/or too much hyphenation.\r\n\r\nThis
      makes absolutely no sense. As I already said, one should take into account two
      facts: the average length of words (in characters) is larger in Russian, and
      the average width of characters (in ems) is larger in Cyrillic.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTo
      understand the rationale, imagine the average word length of some fictional
      language being 30 characters. How do you set this with an average character
      count of 70 per line? You'd have huge word space and hyphenation problems. So
      what do you do? You put more characters into each line. Which comes at a price:
      your typesize goes down. It would be very hard to set justified text for books
      in that language. Luckily, we don't have have to deal with average word lengths
      of 30 characters. \r\n\r\nThe question still stands: What is the ideal number
      of characters per line in Russian text?\r\n\r\nThe ideal parameters for setting
      English text don't seem to apply for at least three reasons: a) Russian has
      \ a substantially different average word length, b) Cyrillic has different font
      metrics, and c) Russian is an inflected language.\r\n\r\nHK, maybe you could
      ask the Storm people in the Czech Republic. Govinda should have their email
      address.\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael"
    children:
    - author:
        name: ilyaz
        picture: 126501
      body: "Obviously, you do not care about your reader\u2019s experience.  All
        you care about is your CPU temperature when you typeset your text\u2026\r\n\r\nI
        said:\r\n\r\n<blockquote><strong>    This makes absolutely no sense. As I
        already said, one should take into account two facts: the average length of
        words (in characters) is larger in Russian, and the average width of characters
        (in ems) is larger in Cyrillic.</strong></blockquote>\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\nTo
        understand the rationale, imagine the average word length of some fictional
        language being 30 characters. How do you set this with an average character
        count of 70 per line?\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI would not!  As I said, the
        character count is irrelevant.  I would just set line length in mm, and will
        let the typesetting program to find best line breaks.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\n
        You'd have huge word space and hyphenation problems.\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
        see no problems.  What problems do you have in mind?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\n
        So what do you do? You put more characters into each line.\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nDefinitely
        not!\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\nWhich comes at a price: your typesize goes down.\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou
        got it backwards.  First, you decide on type size.  Second, the line length.
        \ And line breaks will be calculated basing on this.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\n
        It would be very hard to set justified text for books in that language.\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHard
        for who?  The typesetting program, or what?  Remember that the readers expectations
        in this language are very different from expectations of English readers!\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Luckily,
        we don't have have to deal with average word lengths of 30 characters.\r\n\r\nThe
        question still stands: What is the ideal number of characters per line in
        Russian text?\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nLet me repeat it again: this question
        makes no sense.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\r\nThe ideal parameters for setting English
        text don't seem to apply for at least three reasons: a) Russian has a substantially
        different average word length, b) Cyrillic has different font metrics, and
        c) Russian is an inflected language.\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI do not see
        what having inflections has to do with it.\r\n"
      children:
      - author:
          name: Michael K Auggenthaler
        body: "<blockquote>You got it backwards. First, you decide on type size. Second,
          the line length. And line breaks will be calculated basing on this.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nCool.
          Ingenious!!! This works. \r\n\r\nThanks, iliyaz.\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael\r\n"
        created: '2013-05-27 11:42:50'
      - author:
          name: Michael K Auggenthaler
        body: "<blockquote>First, you decide on type size. Second, the line length.
          And line breaks will be calculated basing on this.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nilyaz,
          we ran into a snag: \r\n\r\nThe type design is for a book and the line length
          is already predetermined by the size of the book. The line length is 90
          mm. Could we switch the two elements of the procedure you are suggesting,
          in other words first determine line length, and then typesize?\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael"
        children:
        - author:
            name: ilyaz
            picture: 126501
          body: "<blockquote><blockquote>    First, you decide on type size. Second,
            the line length. And line breaks will be calculated basing on this.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nilyaz,
            we ran into a snag:\r\n\r\nThe type design is for a book and the line
            length is already predetermined by the size of the book. The line length
            is 90 mm. Could we switch the two elements of the procedure you are suggesting,
            in other words first determine line length, and then typesize?\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\n;-)\r\n\r\nThanks
            for correcting my choice of the figure of speech.  Of course, these two
            steps are interchangeable.  AFAIU, there is very little interplay between
            them.  <strong>This</strong> independence is what makes the question of
            the \u201Coptimal number of characters in line\u201D meaningless."
          children:
          - author:
              name: Michael K Auggenthaler
            body: "<blockquote><blockquote>First, you decide on type size. Second,
              the line length. And line breaks will be calculated basing on this.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n...these
              two steps are interchangeable. AFAIU, there is very little interplay
              between them. This independence is what makes the question of the \u201Coptimal
              number of characters in line\u201D meaningless.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nilyaz,
              help me out. The book I need to design (in English and Russian) is 120
              mm wide. My type area is 90 x 160 mm (excluding running heads and pagination).
              In other words the line length is 90 mm.\r\n\r\nThe typeface shall be
              Times New Roman. \r\n\r\nilyaz, which typesize would you suggest for
              the English edition?\r\n\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael\r\n"
            created: '2013-05-28 07:37:52'
          created: '2013-05-27 21:22:55'
        created: '2013-05-27 15:21:33'
      created: '2013-05-27 10:00:40'
    created: '2013-05-27 09:39:17'
  created: '2013-05-26 00:13:17'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The Cyrillic alphabet is very similar to the Latin in general appearance,
    although the lower case edges towards small capitals. This, if anything, in my
    opinion would make the ideal line width somewhat shorter in Cyrillic than in Latin.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    since the ideal line width in English is quite short - 1 1/2 alphabets of 26 letters
    - I'm not sure that there is much room for people seeking to engage in fine book
    typography in Russian to take this into account."
  created: '2013-05-26 00:36:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Inflected languages are better set with smaller word spaces.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat
    is the reasoning behind this?\r\n\r\nI'm frankly surprised that the average Russian
    word length is only 6.36 letters. My experience of typesetting Russian text is
    that it contains a <em>lot</em> of very long words, but perhaps that is in part
    due to the nature of the texts I have been working with (literary or scholarly,
    so not a day-to-day vocabulary). Even on a fairly generous measure, I find that
    the quantity of hyphenated line breaks in justified Russian text massively outnumbers
    that of English, and even with that amount of hyphenation  the count of over-wide
    word spaces and the risk of rivers remains higher than for English. Of the many
    scripts and languages with which I work, I think typesetting Russian text is one
    of the most difficult things to do well."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Michael K Auggenthaler
    body: "Thanks for your post, John. \r\n\r\n<blockquote><blockquote>Inflected languages
      are better set with smaller word spaces.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat is the reasoning
      behind this?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nReading comprehension. \r\n\r\nI quote from
      Robert Bringhurst's brillant book <em>The Elements of Typographic Style<em>:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Language
      has some effect on the word space as well. In highly inflected languages, such
      as Latin, most word boundaries are marked by grammatical tags, and a smaller
      space is therefore sufficient. In English and other uninflected languages, good
      word spacing makes the difference between a line that has to be deciphered and
      a line that can be efficiently read.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThere must be Russian
      research into all this. We just have to find it.\r\n\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Even
      on a fairly generous measure, I find that the quantity of hyphenated line breaks
      in justified Russian text massively outnumbers that of English, and even with
      that amount of hyphenation the count of over-wide word spaces and the risk of
      rivers remains higher than for English. Of the many scripts and languages with
      which I work, I think typesetting Russian text is one of the most difficult
      things to do well.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSame here. It's a challenge. But I'm
      sure we can find a set of parameters that enable increase sustained reading.\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2013-05-27 09:53:15'
  created: '2013-05-26 00:41:09'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Incidentally, here's the thread that discussed the ideal line length for
    English at some great length:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/78173\r\n\r\nIf
    the normal word length in Russian is longer than in English, that means that shorter
    line lengths cause problems sooner; and yet, on the other hand, the nature of
    the lowercase alphabet means that longer line lengths probably also cause problems
    sooner - and so <em>any</em> line length likely means more compromises.\r\n\r\nGiven
    a 10 Didot point body, 68mm equals 181 ems, incidentally."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Michael K Auggenthaler
    body: "<blockquote>Incidentally, here's the thread that discussed the ideal line
      length for English at some great length:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/78173</blockquote>\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks,
      quadibloc. Good resource. \r\n\r\nI found there Eric Gill's statement: \"Practiced
      readers do not read letter by letter or even word by word, but phrase by phrase.
      It seems that consensus of opinion favors an average of 10-12 words per line.\"\r\n\r\nCan
      we find the Russian readers' consensus of opinion? There must be data.\r\n\r\nIf
      the average Russian word length is 6.36, plus a space, and we put 11 words in
      each line, 7.37 x 11, the ideal number of characters per line would be about
      81. \r\n\r\nMaybe 10 words per line is acceptable (Russian readers are reportedly
      more comfortable with hyphenation than English readers). So 10 x 7.37, i.e.
      74 characters per line, might be okay. \r\n\r\nNo matter how I look at it, the
      ideal number of characters in Russian text seems to be higher than in English.\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael"
    created: '2013-05-27 10:24:40'
  created: '2013-05-26 00:45:37'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "OK, I went to genesis librusec, and it turns out that I was wrong: in non-periodic
    publications, the max is not 3 hyphenated lines in sequence, but 4 (or 5 for narrow
    columns = up to 3\xBD squares)!\r\n\r\nAnyway, it is\t\xAB\u041F\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0438\u043B\u0430
    \u0442\u0438\u043F\u043E\u0433\u0440\u0430\u0444\u0441\u043A\u043E\u0433\u043E
    \u043D\u0430\u0431\u043E\u0440\u0430\xBB, published as\r\n\t\u0413\u0438\u043B\u0435\u043D\u0441\u043E\u043D
    \u041F.\u0413.       \u0421\u043F\u0440\u0430\u0432\u043E\u0447\u043D\u0438\u043A
    \u0445\u0443\u0434\u043E\u0436\u0435\u0441\u0442\u0432\u0435\u043D\u043D\u043E\u0433\u043E
    \u0438 \u0442\u0435\u0445\u043D\u0438\u0447\u0435\u0441\u043A\u043E\u0433\u043E
    \u0440\u0435\u0434\u0430\u043A\u0442\u043E\u0440\u0430;  \u041C., \u041A\u043D\u0438\u0433\u0430,
    1988\r\n(The title is not indexed on librusec; use \xAB\u041F\u0440\u0430\u0432\u0438\u043B\u0430
    \u0442\u0438\u043F\u043E\u0433\u0440\u0430\u0444\u0441\u043A\u043E\u0433\u043E
    \u043D\u0430\u0431\u043E\u0440\u0430\xBB.)\r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2013-05-26 08:01:08'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "> <em>I'm frankly surprised that the average Russian word length is only
    6.36 letters.</em>\r\n\r\nDoes not look reasonable. On the second glance, there
    is a fair proportion of 1-letter words.  So the averaging will <strong>strongly</strong>
    depend on how you average (it is natural to give every word the weight 1, or the
    weight equal to its length, or to its length plus 1\u200A\u2014\u200Athis 1 to
    account for interword space)."
  created: '2013-05-26 09:10:21'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<blockquote>Two biggest names in Russian sub-editing and copy-preparation
    are Alexander Reformatsky (1900\u201378) and Arkady Milchin (1924\u2013).<blockquote>One
    of my colleagues in Russia is now locating their writings.</blockquote></blockquote>Ask
    him/her to also look up <a href=\"http://www.livelib.ru/author/3768\">Ditmar Rosenthal</a>\u2019s
    (1900\u201394). Rosenthal was great. He taught at Moscow Printing Institute when
    I was a student."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Michael K Auggenthaler
    body: "<blockquote>Ask him/her to also look up Ditmar Rosenthal\u2019s (1900\u201394).
      Rosenthal was great. He taught at Moscow Printing Institute when I was a student.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWill
      do. Thank you.\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael"
    created: '2013-05-27 18:29:17'
  created: '2013-05-27 17:54:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Michael, Bringhurst is saying that for inflected languages a narrower word
    space is <em>sufficient;</em> he doesn't say it is 'better'. He's saying that
    the way in which we comprehend meaning in inflected reading means that we <em>can</em>
    utilise smaller word spacing, not that such word spacing is superior for comprehension.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Michael K Auggenthaler
    body: "<blockquote>Bringhurst is saying that for inflected languages a narrower
      word space is sufficient; he doesn't say it is 'better'. He's saying that the
      way in which we comprehend meaning in inflected reading means that we can utilise
      smaller word spacing,</blockquote>\r\n\r\nCorrect. I will include this allowance
      in our Russian type design. \r\n\r\n\r\n<blockquote>not that such word spacing
      is superior for comprehension.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nFor each language, typeface,
      and typesize, there's an optimum word space. We should try to set with spacing
      as close to that optimum as possible.\r\n\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael"
    created: '2013-05-28 07:49:03'
  created: '2013-05-27 19:01:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<blockquote>I found there Eric Gill's statement: \"Practiced readers do not
    read letter by letter or even word by word, but phrase by phrase.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat
    does that even mean? What is 'reading' in the context of Gill's assertion? If
    he means we comprehend the meaning of text via phrases, fair enough, because that's
    how most linguistic communication works thanks to syntax and morphology. But if
    he's suggesting that 'practiced readers' perceive phrases as units, bypassing
    word recognition, he's making an assertion unsupported by any empirical evidence.
    Even for languages such as Thai that do not use spaces to visually differentiate
    words within phrases, there is no evidence that phrases are the perceptual units
    of reading or, indeed, that they can be, since so many phrases exceed the length
    of a single saccade."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Michael K Auggenthaler
    body: "<blockquote><blockquote>I found there Eric Gill's statement: \"Practiced
      readers do not read letter by letter or even word by word, but phrase by phrase.</blockquote></blockquote>\r\n\r\n<blockquote>What
      does that even mean? What is 'reading' in the context of Gill's assertion? If
      he means we comprehend the meaning of text via phrases, fair enough, because
      that's how most linguistic communication works thanks to syntax and morphology.
      But if he's suggesting that 'practiced readers' perceive phrases as units, bypassing
      word recognition, he's making an assertion unsupported by any empirical evidence.
      Even for languages such as Thai that do not use spaces to visually differentiate
      words within phrases, there is no evidence that phrases are the perceptual units
      of reading or, indeed, that they can be, since so many phrases exceed the length
      of a single saccade.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nHi John. Not sure which of the two
      he means. From my own experience I can say that subtle adjustments in text design
      can result in a noticeable increase in the speed at which I can read German
      or English text. I'd be highly interested to understand how this works. It could
      be entirely individual, or there could be absolutes. Bringhurst tends towards
      the existence of absolutes. I tend to agree with him.\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael"
    created: '2013-05-28 08:07:51'
  created: '2013-05-27 19:11:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "However, saving horizontal space and reducing line returns & page turns all
    do help readability.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-27 19:27:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There is no \"small-scale typesetting\" without \"large-scale typesetting\",
    and \"pre-packaged\" solutions are anathema to improvement (which is critical
    because multi-script typesetting remains in the dark ages).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-28 15:30:41'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "> <em>The typeface shall be Times New Roman.\r\nilyaz, which typesize would
    you suggest for the English edition?</em>\r\n\r\nYou are being ironic again?  I\u2019m
    not very much interested in large-scale typesetting (page layout etc.), only in
    small-scale (words; at most, sentences).  For large-scale, I choose from pre-packaged
    solutions.  And my particular preferences are irrelevant to the overwhelming majority
    due to my vision deficiencies."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Michael K Auggenthaler
    body: "<blockquote><blockquote> The typeface shall be Times New Roman.\r\nilyaz,
      which typesize would you suggest for the English edition?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou
      are being ironic again?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nilyaz, I don't think so. I'm just
      trying to find out in which typesize you would set English text (and later Russian)
      in Times New Roman for a book that has a line length of 90 mm. 8pt? 10pt? 12pt?\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael"
    created: '2013-05-28 17:11:04'
  created: '2013-05-28 15:33:26'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "> <em>There is no \"small-scale typesetting\" without \"large-scale typesetting\"</em>\r\n\r\nSorry,
    Hrant, you will need to go into <em>much</em> more details if you want to convince
    me.  IMO, these are, in most respects, orthogonal issues."
  created: '2013-05-28 15:35:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When in public I never try to convince individuals.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-28 15:48:43'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Michael,\r\n\r\nWhy don't you run tests, show typophiles the output, and
    ask what feels better; your question cannot be solved by equations and I doubt
    it can be answered from general principles. Here I ran tests comparing Brill (which
    I like) and Times New Roman (using XeLaTeX with an input file I put on my blog
    http://typophile.com/node/103349) and  which gave <a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/russian_90mm.pdf\">this
    resulting pdf output</a>. \r\nSizes were adjusted to get the same counts. That's
    the kind of thing I do to make choices (from my preference for TeX, you can guess
    that I am no editor, but an academic).\r\n\r\n(The extract is from Chekhov's \u0414\u0430\u043C\u0430
    \u0441 \u0441\u043E\u0431\u0430\u0447\u043A\u043E\u0439.)\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Michael K Auggenthaler
    body: "<blockquote>Why don't you run tests, show typophiles the output, and ask
      what feels better;</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes, that is of course our last resort.
      We are, though, trying to avoid this empirical process. In the course of setting
      type in forty languages for several decades, we've realized that following an
      authority is a time saver and will consistently yield good results, not always
      perfect, but certainly good, often very good. Perfection comes with individual
      fine-tuning, but to do that you need a panel of experienced readers for each
      language, ideally in close vicinity to control the environment. \r\n\r\nSo I
      was hoping, and am still hoping, to find the Russian Bringhurst.\r\n\r\n\r\n<blockquote>your
      question cannot be solved by equations and I doubt it can be answered from general
      principles.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn English it definitely works. We start with
      the parameters for an average of 66/67 characters per line. It is quite ideal
      for most English texts, faces, and line lengths. From there we fine-tune. \r\n\r\n<blockquote>Here
      I ran tests comparing Brill (which I like)</blockquote>\r\n\r\nDo you prefer
      it over Times or Baskerville? In your sample, which I printed out, it looks
      very good, and very different from Times. Is Brill easier to read, comprehend?\r\n\r\nYour
      9.4/12 Times sample is set with larger word space, and therefore looks more
      like English text. Which I like. But how does it look to a Russian reader?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<blockquote>which
      gave this resulting pdf output.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBeautifully done. Thank
      you so much. Of your six samples, I am attracted to  10/12 Brill and 9.4/12
      Times. Here we have an average of 61 characters per line. The color is fairly
      even. Would be interesting to hear from Russian readers.\r\n\r\nMy question
      remains: Hasn't anyone in Russia done all this already and published the results?
      As much fun it is to experiment, it does feel like reinventing the wheel.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Sizes
      were adjusted to get the same counts.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nExcellent. You probably
      could push Times to 9.5 or 9.6. \r\n\r\n<blockquote>That's the kind of thing
      I do to make choices (from my preference for TeX, you can guess that I am no
      editor, but an academic).</blockquote>\r\n\r\n:)  Never worked with TeX. We
      sometimes use InDesign, but mostly our own software which was developed for
      us in the 80s.\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael"
    created: '2013-05-29 08:11:20'
  created: '2013-05-28 18:59:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@ilyaz:\r\n<cite>Obviously, you do not care about your reader\u2019s experience.
    All you care about is your CPU temperature when you typeset your text\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    conclusion is unwarranted. While additional CPU effort can improve the spacing
    of a paragraph, for example through the use of the justification algorithm devised
    by Donald Knuth for TeX, making the CPU work harder will not improve hyphenation.\r\n\r\nHyphenation
    is determined by the dictionary used by the program to show places where words
    can be broken. Since there will always be words that are absent even from a large
    dictionary, this means that if you don't want to burden the user of a word processing
    program with manually indicating possible points of hyphenation, the remaining
    alternative is to use a line length that will produce acceptable results even
    if words are never broken."
  created: '2013-05-28 22:18:04'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<blockquote>\r\nYour 9.4/12 Times sample is set with larger word space, and
    therefore looks more like English text.\r\n</blockquote>\r\nThe space in Brill
    is 198/1000.  The space in Times New Roman is 512/2048 which gives 250/1000; at
    9.4 points, the Times New Roman space is (250*0.94-198)/198 = 18.7%  larger than
    that of Brill at 10 points.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-29 13:42:32'
- author:
    name: Michael K Auggenthaler
  body: "<blockquote><blockquote>Your 9.4/12 Times sample is set with larger word
    space, and therefore looks more like English text.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    space in Brill is 198/1000. The space in Times New Roman is 512/2048 which gives
    250/1000; at 9.4 points, the Times New Roman space is (250*0.94-198)/198 = 18.7%
    larger than that of Brill at 10 points.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nInteresting. It looks
    substantially larger.\r\n\r\nGreetings\r\n\r\nMichael"
  created: '2013-05-29 17:57:31'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "In \"Choosing line length depending on the font size\" (http://typophile.com/node/103329)
    ilyaz goes from posting the question, to this thread where he is posting the answers.\r\n\r\nTwice
    in this thread he said, \"this question makes no sense.\" I think he meant, \"this
    question makes no sense to me.\"\r\n\r\nilyaz is full of emphatic certanties:
    \"I would not!\" \"I see no problems.\" \"Definitely not!\" \"readers expectations
    in this language are very different from expectations of English readers!\" If
    there were an absolute answer and a one-size-fits-all formula, this thread would
    have been over long ago. Discussion helps bring things into perspective; pontificating
    does not.\r\n\r\n<em>\"I have looked a bit more into this notion and cannot confirm
    it. For the usual text faces it is more like 2.2 times the length of the lowercase
    English alphabet, not 1.5-2.0.\"</em> Based on 67 characters per line (which I
    generally tend to agree with), including punctuation and spaces, you are correct.\r\n\r\n<em>\"do
    those word-length numbers include wordspace?\"</em> I'd say be definition, they
    do. Without wordspaces you do not have a word. You'd have one word (6.36 characters
    times the number of words) in a line.\r\n\r\nGetting away from formulas, don't
    we generally want to avoid as much hyphenation as we can? Don't we want to keep
    the line length no longer than just eye-movement will allow? (I.e., not require
    head movement, or as Nick Shinn called it, \"angle of vision.\") Somewhere between
    the two probably lies the best answer.\r\n\r\nAs far as point size, set a few
    pages in different point sizes from 9 to 11 points and read (and have others read)
    them. You don't need as expert to tell you which is more comfortable. Since the
    line length is fixed at 90 mm, maybe another factor for point size should be the
    age of the reader. Are there going to be more people over 40 as the intended audience?
    Go with a larger point size. And vice-versa. Of course, we then get into the area
    of comprehension...."
  created: '2013-05-30 12:56:21'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "> <em>\"do those word-length numbers include wordspace?\" I'd say be definition,
    they do. Without wordspaces you do not have a word. </em>\r\n\r\nOne should handle
    definitions with care.  The next thing to say after what you did would be that
    \u201Cline length includes the LF and CR, since without them you do not have a
    line\u201D.\r\n\r\n> <em>don't we generally want to avoid as much hyphenation
    as we can?</em>\r\n\r\nNo.\xB9\u207E\r\n\r\n> <em>Don't we want to keep the line
    length no longer than just eye-movement will allow? (I.e., not require head movement,
    or as Nick Shinn called it, \"angle of vision.\")</em>\r\n\r\nYou got this upside
    down.  \u201CThe general\u201D eye-movement allows enormous angle of vision.  I
    think what is applicable here is the REM\u2019s amplitude\u200A\u2014\u200Ado
    not know the proper term\u2026.  I do not even know whether saccades are powered
    by the same muscles as the larger scale movements\u2026.\r\n\r\n  \xB9\u207E Only
    when this does not contradict other goals.  Doing typesetting is making compromises.
    \ And what one decides when compromising depends on the context.  In typesetting,
    it depends on the target audience."
  created: '2013-06-04 04:48:02'
date: '2013-05-24 13:04:23'
title: Cyrillic (Russian) ideal number of characters per line

---
