---
author:
  name: Renaissance Man
  picture: 112023
body: "I just bought the 12 font Mikado family. I got a good deal from MyFonts: 50%
  off. However, the R/I/B/BI are not style linked. The six roman weights are linked
  to their italic counterparts, but if I'm using regular, <em>I have to switch fonts
  to use bold.</em> What a bummer. I wrote to MyFonts, and three times they told me
  each weight roman font is style linked to its italic. Each time I told them they're
  not addressing the issue. The message I'm getting from MyFonts is that they are
  clerks who don't even understand my concern and are not font people, or that they're
  tying to tell me (without actually telling me) that's the way it is, there's nothing
  they can do about it, and I'm stuck with it.\r\n\r\nI CCd Hannes von D\xF6hren,
  the type designer, on the last two emails but have not heard back. Any suggestions?
  Is there an inexpensive way for me to style link the fonts?\r\n\r\nIt's getting
  to be a crapshoot buying fonts from respected designers and vendors. One recent
  font had 1 kerning pair and looked horrible when printed (Lenga family of 16 fonts
  from Eurotypo). Another font was defective, and MyFonts said they'd contact the
  designer and I'd probably get a corrected font in a few days (ASNerd). Two months
  later I asked for a refund. Mikado in not the first font I've gotten from MyFonts
  where the R/I/B/BI were not style linked (another was Janson URW). And there's no
  way to find out these kinds of details on the MyFonts website. \r\n\r\nThere's at
  least one Typophile regular who's always admonishing us: \"Reducing the biggest
  motivation to make (good) fonts hurts everybody (certainly font users) eventually.
  Getting people used to paying for fonts helps.\" My experience is (a) paying for
  fonts does not necessarily help; and (b) there's no good way to find out what you're
  getting before you actually buy a font. Not good. It's this kind of stuff that hurts
  careful and conscientious designers."
comments:
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Why is style linking an absolute neccesity, and in what way is style linking
    a sign of a good font? Yeah I use it sometimes when I can, but I would not go
    so far as to expect this from a font family. I don\u2019t know if the license
    allows modifications, then you could style link the fonts yourself with a font
    editor, altough that might not be the solution for everyone."
  created: '2013-05-23 19:42:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026there's no good way to find out what you're getting before you
    actually buy a font.</em> \r\n\r\nSome foundries (e.g. mine) offer \u201Ctry before
    you buy\u201D to reputable designers.\r\nThat means contacting the foundry directly,
    rather than going through a distributor.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-23 20:33:14'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "I own your Goodchild font, Nick.\r\n\r\nMy puzzlement is that some vendors
    cannot or will not tell you if a font is style linked, or how many kerning pairs
    it has, or if there are any known problems. I've often been berated on Typophile
    when I complain about free fonts (wadda ya want, it's free) and when I criticize
    paid fonts (give us a break, mistakes happen, that's common). Others have responded
    that there were errors in well-known fonts that went unnoticed and unfixed for
    years.\r\n\r\nI don't post on Typophile to berate anyone. But we can't denigrate
    free fonts and then set a sloppy standard for paid fonts.\r\n\r\nI am neither
    a professional nor an expert, but I do get embarrassed (for designers) when I
    know that naming conventions have been violated, and they do not.\r\n\r\nI'd just
    like us all to be credible, responsible, and maybe even honest about our craft.
    Then customers will be satisfied and designers will be respected and honored.
    Sure beats rants that berate people who can't afford mega-buck font families,
    and rants that defend professionals that once in a while screw up. I can understand
    the complexities of testing an operating system on multiple platforms in almost
    infinite configurations. Isn't it much easier to test a font before it's put to
    market?\r\n\r\nI honor you, Nick, for standing behind your work."
  created: '2013-05-23 22:09:31'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'One thing about style linking is that the way it should be set up is obvious
    for the two-weight fonts that were preponderant when it was developed, but for
    a six-weight font it isn''t always so clear how it should be done. (Should Black
    be the linked bold of Medium? or should the Medium be the linked bold of Light?
    etc.) It''s true that the Bold weight could have been linked to the Regular, but
    it doesn''t seem unreasonable to me that the designer concluded, since bold style-linking
    is ill-equipped to handle the whole family, that weight selection should be left
    to choosing from the menu. I wouldn''t call that sloppy, nor a violation of naming
    conventions. '
  created: '2013-05-23 22:21:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"But we can't denigrate free fonts and then set a sloppy standard for paid
    fonts.\"\r\n\r\nI understand the frustration, but think the market has gone well
    beyond the point where a single brush stroke, or standard, can paint or describe
    an accurate picture of all free or paid fonts. \r\n\r\nBe cool if fonts had useful
    metadata, so one could tell the caring developers from the heap makers and unfinished
    mass of masterpieces.  Wonder what that would be like..."
  created: '2013-05-23 23:39:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>paying for fonts does not necessarily help</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNot
    necessarily, but generally it does. One direct and practical way it helps is that
    a designer would usually rather fix (or even customize) a font than issue a refund
    and/or get embarrassed in public. Free fonts naturally have a sort of \"as-is\"
    clause, and complaining is almost comical.\r\n\r\nHere's a recent example: http://typophile.com/node/103134\r\nPeople
    have been complaining about the defective \"2\" in Bebas Neue for over two years.
    It's a one-minute fix. But it ain't gonna happen.\r\n\r\nThat said, I certainly
    agree that paid fonts should adhere to higher standards than free fonts. And/but
    most of them do. The ones that don't end up slowly killing their makers.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>there's
    no good way to find out what you're getting before you actually buy a font.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nSure
    there is: ask the designer (and not the seller). On the other hand it <em>would</em>
    be nice to [be able to] elegantly share more technical info.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-24 05:16:50'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "I didn't (mean to) imply that not style linking was a violation of naming
    conventions.\r\n\r\nI did mean to imply that however many fonts there are in a
    family, style linking R/I/B/BI should be a given.\r\n\r\nI did mean to imply that
    I have downloaded too many 4, 6, 8 font families where only a few of them showed
    up because of misnaming."
  created: '2013-05-24 10:15:02'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Might be interesting to know how many have at least tried to file a bug report
    with or propagate a fix to Dharma Type...
  created: '2013-05-24 15:10:46'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: Actually it seems the 2 in Bebas Neue has been fixed. Why it still looks broken
    on dafont, no idea ...
  created: '2013-05-24 15:44:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually actually :-) the problem in the \"2\" isn't/wasn't [just] the right
    side of the spine - in the Dafont preview the <em>left</em> side is going straight...
    It's missing an explicit inflection point (which the [now-]properly-rendering
    curve on the right -even with the addition of an explicit extremum- is also missing*)
    which throws a bomb when you convert to TT. The \"S\" has the same problem BTW.\r\n\r\n*
    BTW, it's funny, is it possible that if you're missing an explicit inflection
    point, not having an explicit extremum <em>helps?</em>  :-)\r\n\r\nBut anyway
    the basic issue remains: do you want to [have to] trust somebody who doesn't owe
    you anything because you never paid him anything?\r\n\r\nReynir: The comments
    section on Dafont (not to mention the Dafont preview!) should be enough. But motivation
    is generally proportional to compensation.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-24 16:52:09'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "As an experiment, I grabbed Bebas Neue from both Dafont and Font Squirrel.
    Dafont has version 1.300 while FS is still offering v1.101.\r\n\r\n@hrant \u2013
    Not all compensation is monetary. \u201CDon\u2019t want money. Got money. Want
    admiration.\u201D (That was the Stone Soup Group\u2019s idea of compensation.)"
  created: '2013-05-24 20:43:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Not all compensation is monetary.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOf course
    - in fact my biggest reason for making Armenian fonts is to support my culture.
    But crappy design isn't exactly pro-culture; and all a high download count feeds
    is vanity, which isn't exactly a virtue. It's like Deal Or No Deal: it's a cocktail
    of greed and dumb luck, with room-temperature-IQ buxom painted jezebels for decoration.
    Don't watch.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-24 20:57:41'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I can only assume that "Deal Or No Deal" is a TV show. My TV-watching time
    per year is measured in single-digit hours, and the last programme I watched avidly
    was the four-part "Iceland Rescue". As for the Stone Soup Group, what recognition
    they got for FractInt and WinFract they deserved good and proper.
  created: '2013-05-25 00:00:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No idea what those are. I do know what Bebas is, and I recommend avoiding
    it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-25 00:53:24'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>I still think style linking R/I/B/BI should be a given, regardless
    of how many fonts in a family. </cite>\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s a valid opinion. Not
    less, but also not more. It\u2019s an opinion. \r\nFrom a technical and logical
    point of view, there are good reasons not to use the typical 4-style-family linking,
    when the font is not a 4-style family. \r\n\r\n<cite> but if I'm using regular,
    I have to switch fonts to use bold. What a bummer.</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease explain
    why that is a bummer? What apps are you using and how do you select the styles?\r\nIf
    you need to change the style, you need to change the style. Whether you use buttons,
    shortcuts, character styles or whatever \u2014 you need to perform an action.
    In what way does not style-linking the regular to the bold will cause serious
    problems for you?\r\n\r\nIn text apps (like Word) and layout apps (like InDesign)
    one would and should use paragraph and character styles to apply different styles
    of a family. If I apply a character style to a word to make it bold, it doesn\u2019t
    matter at all how the family is style-linked. I just set up the character style
    called \u201Cbold\u201D to use the bold style. \r\n\r\n<cite> I'm not thrilled
    when type designers don't bother to answer their emails. </cite>\r\n\r\nHow much
    time have you given the designer to answer?"
  created: '2013-05-25 11:09:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>I do not see a problem with the /2/ or the /S/.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    believe you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-25 14:59:08'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2S_4611.jpg]'
  created: '2013-05-25 15:32:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, twice: on the Dafont preview, and when I look at the curves in FontLab.
    BTW did you read the comments on Dafont?\r\n\r\nIn the late 80s I had a 1976 BMW
    2002. One day it started pulling to the right whenever I braked. A few days after
    I noticed that, I was driving to college, doing my usual 80-something on the freeway.
    I got into a casual race with some guy, and almost hit a car on my right when
    I braked hard. No biggie. Then in the campus parking lot, while looking for a
    spot at 5 mph, I braked hard, and the right-front wheel came completely off...
    So nobody died, that time.\r\n\r\nYou don't die every time you play Russian Roulette,
    but it's still a bad idea.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-25 17:48:11'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: The wheel's lug nuts came off? Had you changed a tire recently?
  created: '2013-05-25 18:40:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, the suspension bearing or something had worn out. Properly changing tires
    myself, I'm good at. I had to do that on my Flex recently, when I bumped a curb.
    Damn low-profile rims are like knives. With my 2002 I used to mount sidewalks
    with abandon and nothing would happen. One time a bank security guard had to grab
    his chair and run. Ah, yute.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-25 18:56:18'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: FractInt and WinFract were only about the coolest fractal explorers ever devised
    on MS-DOS and MS-Win boxes, so I guess it's normal you have never heard of them.
  created: '2013-05-25 23:09:34'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: 'When I was a teenager I had a summer job in a tire center. All day long we
    put on new tires. Once a guy either forgot the lug nuts or forgot to tighten them
    and the wheel came off a few minutes after the car left. '
  created: '2013-05-25 23:34:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I remember Benoit. HE was cool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-26 00:24:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> From a technical and logical point of view, there are good reasons not
    to use the typical 4-style-family linking, when the font is not a 4-style family.\r\n\r\nYes,
    but....\r\n\r\n> I still think style linking R/I/B/BI should be a given, regardless
    of how many fonts in a family.\r\n\r\nAnd that is going to be a pretty common
    POV. Despite seeing the technical and logical arguments otherwise, I lean that
    way myself.\r\n\r\nIf a type designer doesn\u2019t want to do that, it is their
    call. If they are super-ultra-high-end maybe their users won\u2019t care. But
    for most people, they can and should expect a certain number of irate users if
    they do that. I doubt doing the full-on style linking for the R/I/B/BI will frustrate
    or anger anybody, and it is easily explained."
  created: '2013-05-27 07:51:24'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Steve Marston: <em>I still think style linking R/I/B/BI should be a given,
    regardless of how many fonts in a family.</em>\r\n\r\nThomas Phinney: <em>And
    that is going to be a pretty common POV. Despite seeing the technical and logical
    arguments otherwise, I lean that way myself.</em>\r\n\r\nThe key is consistency.
    Which is hard to achieve with bigger families.\r\nLinking R/I but not R/B and
    I/BI is the easiest way to achieve consistency across the entire family: Touch
    the I button, but never the B button.\r\nIf you try to meet Windows users' R/I/B/BI-linking
    expectiation, with bigger families, you end up with solutions guided either by
    two guiding principles rather than one, or one guiding principle with exception(s):\r\nEither
    you style-link only these fully. Other style would only be I-linked but not B-linked.
    Cf Monotype. Being able to use the B button with the Regular weight, however,
    it is too tempting for a user to do the same with other weights too \u2013 anticipating
    consistent behavior (with the Regular-related R/I/B/BI is considered the model).\r\nOr
    you style-link everything the R/I/B/BI way. Bold would be B to Regular, Medium
    would be B to Light, or Extrabold would be B to Medium, etc. Cf Adobe. Try this
    with a really big family! It works properly only with rather small big families,
    and usually you end up with one or two left-over weights for which there is no
    B. See either.\r\n\r\nIn short, the Regular-related R/I/B/BI linking is indeed
    easily explained. The tricky part is all the other weights that in a bigger family
    may, by their number, outweight R & B. Do you define consistency based on the
    tiny R/I/B/BI part, or do you define it based on all other weights?\r\n\r\nThat
    said, a foundry should indicate whether their families' members are style-linked
    or not, or at least do so when being asked about it."
  created: '2013-05-27 11:38:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The key is consistency. Which is hard to achieve with bigger families.\"\r\n\r\nI
    think the R/I/B/BI booby-trapped garden fence \u2014 and typography, have been
    on a collision course since this one community decided that the shortcut into
    every single font family ever designed by this other community is 2 to the 2nd.
    But, we are approaching the intersection of \"skip them\" and \"let the customer
    decide\" on this issue, among other \"preferences\" the \"user\" might rather
    pick themselves, so bear with everyone else;)"
  created: '2013-05-27 15:34:33'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "In fact I do \u2013 and \"let the customer decide\": While there is no bold-linking
    in my [retail] fonts, there is the offer to <a href=\"http://kltf.de/kltf_fonts_standards.shtml#linking\"
    target=\"_blank\">bold-link</a> any two weights if desired. (Noone ever made use
    of this so far.)"
  created: '2013-05-27 16:20:40'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/good news_6438.jpg]\r\nHi Steve, \r\n\r\nThank
    you for your email and the thread. Indeed, this is a very interesting topic.\r\nSorry
    for the delay, I wasn't in the office last week and had no time to answer.\r\n\r\nNormally
    there are special Office versions exactly of the 4 fonts with the correct style
    linking.\r\n\r\nRegarding the Mikado family - and its look - we thought more of
    an usage in \r\nthe design-background programs like Photoshop or Indesign where
    the r/i/b/bi \r\nstyle linking isn't that important.\r\n\r\nWe made an Mikado
    Office version especially for you :)\r\nwhere you should be able to select the
    correct weights, now.\r\n\r\nPlease let me know if everything works fine.\r\n\r\nHave
    a great day!\r\nHannes\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ty_6501.jpg]\r\nThe
    red font is Mikado Ultra for an ultra big thanks to Hannes von D\xF6hren."
  created: '2013-05-28 09:33:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good news. (And nicely typical of small foundries.) So I assume you'll retract
    your statement -made two days after you bought the fonts- that you won't buy from
    HVD again.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-28 15:14:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, he seems to have handled it very well. So it would be nice to edit your
    (first) post of the 25th.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-29 19:11:17'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "<em>I do know what Bebas Neue  is, and I recommend avoiding it.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    downloaded Bebas Neue and on my system I do not see a problem with the /2/ or
    the /S/.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, back at the ranch:\r\n\r\nFrom MyFonts: \"The Mikado
    fonts are not set in 4 font family groups. They are set in 2 font groups: the
    Italic styles are linked to the base weight.\" That should have been their answer
    from day one. They did offer a refund. Since I got this for half-price, and probably
    will (have to) use it as a display font I decided to keep it. Not so if I paid
    full price. Still no word from designer Hannes von D\xF6hren.\r\n\r\nI still think
    style linking R/I/B/BI should be a given, regardless of how many fonts in a family.
    And that includes small caps.\r\n\r\nI'm not buying any more fonts from HvD.  <strong>[EDIT:
    I changed my mind; see my post of  29 May 2013 or click [[http://typophile.com/node/103260#comment-555641|here.]]]</strong>
    I'm not thrilled when type designers don't bother to answer their emails. I am
    thrilled when type designers do pick up their own phone and talk to me, Sumner
    Stone, James Montalbano, and Patrick Griffin among them. No wonder I bu29 May
    2013y their fonts; either the fonts have no problems, or the designers fix them.
    Who could ask for more?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-29 19:11:37'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "There was an initial glitch, but as HvD said in his last email to me, \"I
    am really happy that we could solve this problem. Good teamwork :) I always try
    to help when it is possible and I think that happy customers are very important.
    Especially if this is your daily job and you want to live from your font-sales.\"\r\n\r\nI
    said this earlier, but it bears repeating: even without the R/I/B/BI style linking,
    I turned down MyFonts offer of a refund because I really like Mikado. It's useful
    at small sizes and its character is more fully revealed at display sizes, especially
    in the heavier weights. I'm even more impressed that Hannes  took the time and
    trouble to resolve the (my) style linking issue.\r\n\r\nI still like MyFonts as
    a font vendor, and they do send out emails to tell you if a font has been updated,
    and do offer a refund if the product is defective or totally unsuitable for your
    work. But if there's a problem or question, they're clueless. I know fonts are
    not cars or toasters, but imagine if your car dealer or toaster vendor hadn't
    a clue about the product and you had to write to the manufacturer. (Yeah, I know
    that there are way more fonts than there are car models or toaster brands.)\r\n\r\n<strong>Anyway,
    a big thanks to Hannes von D\xF6hren and  a hearty endorsement for his Mikado
    font family.</strong>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-29 19:14:47'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: I was in the process of doing so when you posted, hpp. (<strong>H</strong>elicopter
    <strong>P</strong>oster <strong>P</strong>apazian, always hovering.) That's twice
    you made the same suggestion.
  created: '2013-05-29 19:22:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I myself would've done that first, since it was doing damage sitting there.\r\n\r\nJust
    looking out for a fellow indie designer (especially an apparently honorable one).
    And I'm not so sure I didn't make a difference.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-29 19:31:41'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "I couldn't link to a post that was not yet posted. You did make a difference\u2014the
    first time. The second was just an annoyance."
  created: '2013-05-29 19:33:15'
date: '2013-05-23 18:44:43'
node_type: forum
title: Style Linking

---
