---
author:
  name: polkawithfontana
  picture: 122467
body: "Last year I was looking for type specimen and related publications of foundries
  on the internet. I found this nice booklet that was published Christmas 1970 by
  H. Berthold AG as a present to their customers. It is called \u2018Die Wappen der
  Buchgewerbe\u2019 (Coats of Arms of the Book Trade) and was published in a series
  of facsimile publications from \u2018Sch\xE4tze aus der Berthold-Bibliothek\u2019
  (Treasures from the Berthold-Library). On the cover Englische Schreibschrift set
  on the Diatype Photocomposer and Akzidenz Grotesk Mager as handset metal type. On
  the cover also the first known printers' mark from Fust and Sch\xF6ffer in the Mainz
  Psalter, printed in 1457. \u2018Die Wappen der Buchgewerbe\u2019 was first published
  in 1891 by the Austrian heraldic painter Hugo Gerard Str\xF6hl and contained nine
  colored plates with coats of arms.\r\n\r\nOn the second picture a spread with one
  of the seven coats of arms that are shown in the Berthold booklet. This is the coat
  of arms of the painters, one of the oldest coats of arms. Times where changing and
  in in the seventies graphic designers began to play a bigger role in book production.
  So Berthold dedicated this coat of arms also to the graphic designers.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cover_Berthold_S_5018.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Berthold_Wappen_S_6045.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Berthold dedicated this coat of arms \r\n> also to the graphic designers\r\n\r\nA
    nice thought, but a little ironic since most graphic designers never design a
    coat of arms; it's a very old-fashioned type of graphic."
  created: '2013-05-28 20:56:18'
- author:
    name: Alessio
    picture: 120947
  body: "@James \u2014 of course a graphic designer would rarely design a coat of
    arms, as heraldry is its own discipline, and a highly specialized one at that\u2014but
    why does that make it ironic? Would bookbinders design a coat of arms? How about
    <a href=\"http://nuclearsecrecy.com/blog/2013/01/22/more-nuclear-symbolism/\">UK
    nuclear scientists</a>? Having a coat of arms has nothing to do with whether or
    not you would ever design your own. An achievement of arms, as it is technically
    termed (including escutcheon, crest and mantling), is also not a graphic, but
    a symbolic system, which would be reiterated in various forms on everything from
    stone to engravings to apparel to printed formats.\r\n\r\n@polka \u2014 fascinating
    find! Interesting indeed that in this instance the arms seem to be a sort of guild
    mark rather than the traditional family purpose."
  created: '2013-05-28 21:20:22'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Having a coat of arms has nothing to do with \r\n> whether or not you would
    ever design your own\r\n\r\nI've got nothing against coat of arms used in heraldry
    or studied for historic purposes. I'm just saying it's an odd tribute to graphic
    designers since it's a type of symbol that's very outdated and I doubt that any
    designer would choose an image like that to represent their profession. \r\n\r\nBut
    no big deal, and no disrespect is intended to the original poster. It's a nice
    image, thanks for posting it.\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-28 23:57:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: http://www.underconsideration.com/speakup/archives/002570.html
  created: '2013-05-29 02:50:13'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '[[http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/23186]] &ndash; The Handbook to English
    Heraldry by Charles Boutell; 11th Ed., 1914.'
  created: '2013-05-29 12:46:41'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Thanks T\xE9, I have this book from 1914 and the funny thing is that there
    is colour in the html version on gutenberg.org. In the eleventh edition I have
    there is no colour ..."
  created: '2013-05-29 12:53:18'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Bare with me for a moment. Nothing is old-fashioned. We stand upon the shoulders
    of those before us and every generation makes his own interpretation of it. Look
    at this example of a card I received from fashion designer Paul Smith. The card
    is laminated from three paper stocks. A thick dark blue one in the middle and
    two white sheets in back and front. The coat of arms is not printed but lasered
    revealing the dark blue paper. His motto is in this discussion maybe on the right
    spot. -Joep\r\n\r\nJohn, nice link!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PaulSmith_S_5416.jpg]"
  created: '2013-05-29 12:54:25'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Thanks for the links to articles.\r\n\r\nThe  modern example for Paul Smith
    is not his company's logo and appears to have been created as a humorous (6 arms),
    personal heraldry symbol.  \r\n\r\nI respectfully disagree with the comment that
    heraldry symbols are not old-fashioned. In the world of logos, they are about
    as old-fashioned as you can get. Appropriate in the world of heraldry, but otherwise
    seldom used except in specialized situations or in highly modernized forms.\r\n\r\nBut
    I agree completely with your comment that we stand on the shoulders of those who
    came before us. "
  created: '2013-05-29 16:01:39'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "James, as far as I know designers always are looking for inspiration and
    mostly they are collectors of numerous stuff. You can say that from Paul Smith
    for sure (he is one of the worlds biggest collectors of everything he likes).
    Coming back on the thread about the Calypso from Excoffon I explained how he got
    to this 3D design of that typeface. I did not mention there that I think that
    his inspriation also came from the old so-called cartouches that you can see for
    example in the picture below. This cartouches tried to create also a 3D presentation,
    just like the coats of arms from Str\xF6hl in the Berthold publication. As you
    can see in the first specimen of Calypso from 1958 in the book about Excoffon
    he used also a modernized form of the cartouches on the front of his specimen
    of Calypso. Maybe he tried to give also a clue how he got the idea for creating
    this font. The cartouches on the background are from Joh. Vredeman de Vriese (Recueil
    de Cartouches invent\xE9es par Joh. Vredeman de Vriese, published in Brussels,
    Belgium, G.A. van Trigt, \xC9diteur, according to the seller it should be dated
    around 1875).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cartouche1_Calypso_S_4965.jpg]\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I should link this also to the Calypso thread but I don't know how ..."
  created: '2013-05-29 16:02:27'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Look what we did with this old fashioned cartouches.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kaart_DeMuzen_S_5766.jpg]\r\nAdvertising
    card for our book D\xE9 Muzen (The Muses), a book about classical music and with
    anecdotes about composers and classical music. Translation of the dutch text:
    Paganini was a hardrocker.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kaart_Letterfontein_S_5142.jpg]\r\nAdvertsing
    card for the dutch Letter Fountain. Translation of the text: A serif is a character
    with feet.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kaart_FreshFonts_S_6350.jpg]\r\nAdvertising
    card for our book Fresh Fonts. Translation: Typography from the underbelly.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kaart_MiniQuest_S_5986.jpg]\r\nAdvertising
    card for our book MiniQuest 01 with sixty questions and answers about the printing
    and designing business: Hickeys (in dutch spanjolen) are coming from Spain.\r\n\r\nThe
    typeface used is the FF Profile."
  created: '2013-05-29 16:19:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joep, those covers are nice.\r\n\r\nI like heraldry in graphic design because
    it's an antidote to the disease -nay, pandemic- of Modernism. Newlyn's breathtaking
    Unilevel logo strikes me as an esp\xE8ce de heraldry.\r\n\r\nBTW, I own a dictionary
    of heraldry, and it rules.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-29 17:31:53'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: I like those; zooming in on the details made good background images. Nice
    work!
  created: '2013-05-29 17:57:34'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Hrant, just as you mention heraldry is one of the parts of history in design
    were we can find inspiration to design new stuff. Every form in a coat of arms
    has his meaning and therefore it can be of great value when you design a logo,
    along a lot of other driteria of course. Simply rejecting it is as easy as designing
    a new car without wheels and engine. Of course we can try that also but looking
    to the past helps us just because of the fact that other clever minds have thought
    also about it. You can build upon that knowledge. I think that the Unilever logo
    can also be seen as a 'talking' coat of arms that comes nearest to the logo's,
    colors or arms groups where identified with hundredths of years ago. The meaning
    was the same and maybe we will get a more sofisticated way of making logo's. Nowadays
    you see even 'logofactories' where you can buy for small money a logo and you
    only have to paste your name in it. Heraldry developed into a graphic language
    and I don't use it often but there can always be a moment when you are drawing
    the next swoosh-like logo for a sports company to reflect and get inspiration.
    \r\nBy the way, did Excoffon did or did not make the first 'swoosh' for Air France?"
  created: '2013-05-30 07:56:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, the one bad precedent he set?  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-30 14:42:34'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Old-fashened or not, we liked the heraldry of Str\xF6hl. Our cartouche cards
    were gone after selling 1,000 Dutch Letter Fountains and we wanted another set
    as give away with the book. So we made a new set of 4 cards with the \u2018logo\u2019s\u2019
    of the papermakers, the painters (and graphic designers), the type founders and
    the book printers. Again on Chromolux Pearl to get that little mysterious shift
    of color. Below you can see the result of the one from the type founders (front
    and back). We used Akzidenz Grotesk because it was introduced in 1898. But of
    course before that introduction there was the Steinschrift and the Royal Grotesk
    from Theinhardt, the one that is said of to be the prototype for the AG when Berthold
    took over Theinhardt. The work of Str\xF6hl in 1891 was typical nineteenth century
    and the AG became the most important sans serif of the twentieth century. Simply
    because it was the mother of all the lookalikes that came after it. So a perfect
    fit and a lovely contrast ...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/03VK_Cards_founders_S_6376.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/03AK_Cards_founders_S_6314.jpg]"
  created: '2013-05-30 22:18:58'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "But still we had the feeling that we did not had the right material. As you
    know in 1970 they screened the printed images. By scanning and descreening them
    the picture is blurred and sharpened and the result is lack of detail. So we went
    on searching for the original book from 1891 because we thought that the rare
    full color printing was done without a screen. Here the original book we found
    eventually. On the cover on the left the coat of arms from D\xFCrer and on the
    right the one from Gutenberg (Henne Gensfleisch). They both were seen as inventors
    of printing. D\xFCrer because he printed his drawings (cut in woodblocks) in large
    quantities and Gutenberg for his printing with metal type.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Strohl_CoverS_4103.jpg]"
  created: '2013-05-31 10:46:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice.\r\n\r\nYou really do need a Franglish version of that heraldic description
    though...\r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/news/blogs-magazine-monitor-22655534\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-05-31 14:46:07'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: Hrant, you don't need glasses I think reading such small text. This was a
    test version. The new one is edited by Ben Archer. And he does not speak franglais
    ...
  created: '2013-05-31 19:32:28'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Polka: I have not heard Durer considered an inventor of printing before.
    Do you have any references or detail on that? Printing large quantities with wood
    blocks was done well before Durer. For example, Koken, Empress of Japan, had printed
    an edition of one million scrolls in 764. Certainly his print-making popularized
    his art, but I am unclear on what was invented.'
  created: '2013-05-31 21:30:59'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: '~'
  created: '2013-06-01 02:26:58'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Hrant, here the final print version of the card with my Franglais corrected
    into proper English by Ben Archer.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3_AK_Wappen_Cards_6439.jpg]"
  created: '2013-06-01 12:32:21'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Thomas, I mentioned D\xFCrer and Gutenberg as inventors of printing in the
    context of Str\xF6hl\u2019s book I am showing. I am in particular referring to
    the cover illustration and to one of the first pages in this book (that are not
    numbered). Here it says: \u2018 ... die\xDFer beiden ersten Gr\xF6\xDFen auf graphischem
    Gebiete.\u2019 translated as \u2018 ... this two first great people in the graphical
    world\u2019. They both were seen as inventors in the printing world from the viewpoint
    of Str\xF6hl and many Germans because Gutenberg made knowledge available to more
    people than only the elite that could pay for handwritten books. He did that through
    the invention of his movable type in the western world. What D\xFCrer did was
    sometimes considered even more important. There was no photography, paintings
    and other storytelling pictures were mostly available as one original. A lot of
    people could not read and D\xFCrers drawings that were printed in huge quantities
    gave the masses visual access to great storytelling drawings. D\xFCrer opened
    a new world to the people living in that time and we should not confuse it with
    how we live now with all information that searches us instead of we searching
    for news and knowledge. Even in the time of Str\xF6hl the printing of pictures
    was not as easy as it is now and maybe that is why especially in the German speaking
    part of Europe the work of D\xFCrer had so much importance.\r\n\r\nI for myself
    describe Gutenberg in my publications always considered to be the inventor of
    movable metal type in the western world. He is of course not th\xE9 inventor of
    printing because that was done already whit the same presses as you can see in
    the miniature of Gutenbergs press below. \r\n\r\nIf you also want to cover the
    wood block prints in China, Japan and even the Korean movable metal type that
    was used in the Jikji in 1377, the discussion goes far beyond what I was trying
    to tell. But you are right to say that a longer sentence and more explanation
    would have been better in the text that I placed with the cover of the book from
    Str\xF6hl. His book deals of course with the coats of arms of the book trade and
    in that concept of making and selling books his statement is understandable. D\xFCrers
    role was not a mechanical invention but an communication invention to tell stories
    and educate people through his drawings.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gutenberg_Press_S_6357.jpg]\r\nIn
    the box in front of the press the metal type layout or wooden block was laid.
    With a tampon the surface of the type or wooden block was inked and a sheet of
    paper was laid on it. The lid of the box was closed and the closed box was pushed
    under the wooden spindle. The wooden spindle was turned down and pressed upon
    the lid of the box creating an even pressure on the paper sheet. The wooden spindle
    was turned up again, the box was pushed back, the lid opened and the printed sheet
    of paper taken out. With all this actions only one sheet was printed!"
  created: '2013-06-01 12:38:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You misunderstood, I meant the text should be <em>more</em> Franglish/Franglais!
    Not the comical contemporary lingo (in that BBC article) but the way heraldry
    was uttered in the past. Like having \"azure\" and \"argent\" instead of \"blue\"
    and \"silver\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-01 14:22:05'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Hrant, now I understand. I thought my English was a bit odd. But this is
    a translation of the Str\xF6hl book and as you can see below Str\xF6hl also described
    it as Blau (Blue) and Silber (Silver). I don\u2019t think that we should alter
    that in a translation. You are right when you are referring to the book of Boutell
    (Handbook to English Heraldry). There (in the second picture) is given an alternative
    French name indeed.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Strohl_Colors_S_6527.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Boutell_Colors_S_5579.jpg]"
  created: '2013-06-01 19:31:27'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Totally old-fashioned, totally not usefull anymore but how nice can history
    be ...\r\n(Just a headline in Str\xF6hls\u2019 book)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DasWappen_S_6693.jpg]"
  created: '2013-06-02 12:13:52'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: This all has me wondering if there is anything about heraldry other than English
    or French on the web.
  created: '2013-06-02 12:22:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>totally not usefull anymore</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNever say \"never
    again\"!\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ilyaz
      picture: 126501
    body: "> <em>http://themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html</em>\r\n\r\nI\u2019d
      say that if your theory predicts that fraktur \u201Cis inherently more readable
      than our conventional Roman script\u201D, I have a nice landfill to recommend
      to your theory to rent\u2026."
    created: '2013-06-04 05:59:48'
  created: '2013-06-02 14:10:35'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Dear T\xE9, the book from Str\xF6hl is an Austrian book ...\r\nHeraldry was
    \u2018invented\u2019 for the battlefield to make sure you kill the right opponent
    and not one of your own. I think they nowadays say that someone is killed by friendly
    fire. In the Middle Ages they already thought about that problem. So inevitably
    Heraldry only was made in countries that in the Middle Ages battled against each
    other with armies and knights. The painting of these banners was done by predecessors
    of us (graphic designers). It was done just like we make a logo nowadays. So it
    is not so strange that their coat of arms (that of the painters) was also dedicated
    to the graphic designers by Berthold in their facsimile.\r\nBut I can serve you
    with another book of Str\xF6hl that is even more famous than the book I showed
    before. The old nobility in Japan had/has also coats of arms and they are as we
    see them now more modern than the European ones because they make much more use
    of pictograms and signs. The book is called \u2018Japanisches Wappenbuch \u2013
    Nihon Moncho\u2019 (Japanese Roll of Arms), Str\xF6hl published it in 1906.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NihonMoncho_S_4834.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/In_NihonMoncho_S_4795.jpg]"
  created: '2013-06-02 14:43:57'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I think they nowadays say that someone is killed by friendly fire.\r\n\r\nThe
    term \"friendly fire\" dates back about a hundred years, but I heard a general
    say that it's been a problem in almost every battle in history. \r\n\r\nSome friendly
    fire accidents are not due to mistaken identity but simply missing the target,
    such as arrows that get blown off course by the wind, or shells that fall short
    and land on friendly troops.\r\n\r\nBut sometimes it is due to mistaken identity.
    In some cases poor visibility is a factor, such as when fighting at night or when
    the battlefield is covered with gunsmoke or fog. But having distinctive clothing
    and equipment can certainly reduce some of the friendly fire accidents.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-02 17:22:53'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "We bought the book from Str\xF6hl with the original coats of arms because
    we wanted to see if the pictures were better in that publication than in the Berthold
    one. And they are! No destroying of details because no screening was used at that
    time. You can see in the details below that the scan above (from the original)
    has much richer detail than the scan below. Both scanned on Epson V750 Pro. Because
    the contrast is higher, the result from unsharp masking,  the picture below seems
    sharp but when you look at the details everything is a bit blurry. There is also
    a difference in color. The picture on top is more accurate. The Berthold publication
    had brighter colors. Bit nurdy this post, don't you think? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Wappen_I_twoqualities_S_5397.jpg]\r\n\r\nOn
    top the scan from the original book from 1891. The scan below is taken from the
    1970 Berthold publication.\r\n\r\nThis is the coat of arms of the papermakers.
    The ox that you see is based on the watermark that was found in a lot of Gutenbergs
    42-line bibles (he used different paperstocks because one papermill could not
    the 'huge' amount of paper he needed for his bibles). The paper with the ox watermark
    came from an Italian papermill in Caselle, Piedmont (see the picture below).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/watermark-caselle_4368.jpg]"
  created: '2013-06-03 09:09:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jokes are no substitute for reasoning.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-04 05:58:26'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: It <strong>was</strong> reasoning.
  created: '2013-06-04 06:01:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, now I see what the joke is.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-04 06:05:44'
- author:
    name: ilyaz
    picture: 126501
  body: "<blockquote>And lately another fancy has induced other printers to use the
    round s instead of the long one, which formerly served well to distinguish a word
    readily by its varied appearances. Certainly the omitting this prominent letter
    makes a line appear more even, but renders it less immediately legible; as the
    paring of all men's noses might smooth and level their faces, but would render
    their physiognomies less distinguishable.\u201D\r\n\r\n1789</blockquote>"
  created: '2013-06-04 06:39:45'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Today we received our new and geeky publication of \u2018The coats of Arms
    of the Book Trade\u2019, our own interpretation of the publication of Str\xF6hl
    from 1891.\r\n\r\nYou can look at the YouTube video on http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xGpusk2EeKs
    to check it out.\r\n\r\nWe assembled a very limited edition of 250, numbered and
    signed by me, the author and designer (joep Pohlen). It was quite an organisation
    to make it. The Cairn Board paperstock was ordered in England, engraved brass
    plates with a line version of the Gutenberg and D\xFCrer coats of arms took care
    of the foil printing in two colors, the die-cut was done for the cover, the booklet
    was singer-sewn and the 6 cards, printed on Chromolux Pearl were put in the pocket.
    A belly band made from Japanese Washi Yuzen paper, printed in silkscreen by hand
    with a geometric pattern was laid around the book. After that it was packed in
    silkpaper and bound with Finnish paper cord (that can be washed up to 40 \xB0C???).
    Most of this had to be done by hand (my sister Tedje Pohlen took care of the singer
    sewing, and still is sewing ...).\r\n\r\nLook also on http://www.fontana.nl/uk_wappens.html
    for more info or look also on flickr for more pictures: http://www.flickr.com/photos/96974638@N06/
    (we will add some more detailed pictures as soon as we have managed to do so).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Folder1_S_4496.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Folder2_S_4265.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Folder3_S_5275.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Folder4_S_5622.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Six_CardS_3691.jpg]"
  created: '2013-06-04 12:36:01'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '[[http://www.dr-bernhard-peter.de/Heraldik/seite38.htm]] &ndash; Some pages
    (in German) about German heraldry.'
  created: '2013-06-04 19:05:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Very nice, Joep.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-04 19:08:10'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Festina Lente (\u2018more haste, less speed\u2019 or \u2018make haste slowly\u2019)
    is a adage that comes from the classical Greek world. Aldus Manutius, in whose
    printing shop the common language was Greek, translated this adage into his printers'
    mark and used it for the first time in a edition of Dante in 1502. The anchor
    stands emblematic for slow and the dolphin for speed. It is believed that Manutius
    got inspired for his printers' mark through a Roman silver coin that was given
    to him by Cardinal Bembo and that had this sign on the reverse side. And so we
    have reached the typographical link of the typeface now known as Bembo. It is
    still one of the most used typefaces as you will know. So much that some type
    designers hate it almost as much as Comic Sans. \r\nThe adage Festina Lente was
    used als in the work of famous writers like Erasmus, Shakespeare and Goethe. The
    meaning of it is that everything has to be done with the proper balance between
    urgency and diligence.\r\nJust as with the coats of arms of Str\xF6hl a lot of
    \u2018logo's\u2019 of the past have emblemetic connections with history.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Aldus_Mark_6524.jpg]"
  created: '2013-06-07 13:28:36'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: Joep, thank you for creating and curating this fascinating thread, along with
    your Calypso thread, this kind of thing is one of the reasons I love Typophile.
  created: '2013-06-07 14:21:11'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Thank goodness for graphic designers such as Paul Rand, painters such as
    Newman, musicians such my friend Moby. And the list could go on and on. These
    artists allow / invite the public (viewer, listener, whatever) to come to their
    'compositions' and bring their own interpretations.\r\n\r\nNot the other way around.\r\n\r\nIn
    short ...there is no preconceived narrative or allegorical symbolism emblematic
    to the point of class structure(s) ...no dusty lectures of you vs me, or us vs
    them. I don't mind the above dust from the past, it does have some measure of
    historical importance ...it is needed to remind us all of how far we have come
    with our ability to communicate.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-07 17:35:06'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "There's a difference between works of art, where each viewer can bring their
    own interpretation, and visual symbols that are designed to convey a specific
    message. I don't faulty heraldry for trying to convey specific messages; we do
    that today sometimes, too. \r\n\r\nI don't want other drivers bringing \"their
    own interpretation\" to a stop sign. And there are countless other modern examples,
    such as interface design, maps, signage, and so forth. It's not fine art but it
    wasn't intended to be."
  created: '2013-06-07 19:16:19'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Way finding signage and other public graphic utilities are apples ...heraldic
    branding and other private graphic/artistic pursuits are oranges.\r\n\r\nYou sir
    are trying to compare apples to oranges :) Public vs private. And by private I
    include clubs, corporations, and the like ...stuff that can divide you from me.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    it would be mildly amusing to read the interpretations of a stop sign by a philosopher,
    a physicist, and a plumber.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-08 03:24:17'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Heraldic branding is in intent every bit as much an apple. It needs to convey
    an explicit meaning very clearly, to that will be understood the same way by all.
  created: '2013-06-08 04:44:56'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> You sir are trying to compare apples to oranges :) \r\n\r\nAnd I'd say
    the same about your viewpoint. :) Guess we'll have to agree to disagree."
  created: '2013-06-08 07:17:11'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: Sure indeed it does but heraldic symbolism by design/nature is exclusive ...orange.
  created: '2013-06-08 07:27:09'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Coats of arms and symbolism can also be used in a different way. It is not
    the one or the other. Getting the coats of arms of the book trade back from the
    past was for me an example of the graphic language we developed and from which
    we can still learn. \r\nSome years ago, before I got interested in the coats of
    arms I used for our publication, we made a logo for a school that wanted to provide
    a more protected environment after the more loosely educational concepts that
    we had in The Netherlands for a couple of decades. The graphic language of a more
    heraldic logo gave a more disciplined character to the school. It is not made
    according heraldic rules but gives a modern interpretation of it. You can like
    it or not but in providing a succesfull solution for a look and feel it fitted
    well and gave expression to the concept of the school. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MavoRGB_def_5112.jpg]"
  created: '2013-06-08 17:03:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Very nice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-08 17:09:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Something is in the air... This\r\nhttps://twitter.com/DesignMuseum/status/343462485036236800/photo/1\r\nwas
    posted to the Design Museum's Twitter feed today.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-09 02:44:04'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Coats of Arms and a simple escutcheon are two completely different heraldic
    expressions. The former has an articulate elaborate graphic vocabulary ...unlike
    your twitter - esque graphic grunt.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>It is not made according
    heraldic rules but gives a modern interpretation of it.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYep,
    you can say that again. \r\n\r\nBut either way ...Coats of Arms (or perhaps sarcastically
    speaking ...Goats of Farms) and your simplistic escutcheon are firmly dated to
    the past.  And as I said before that that is OK. We learn from the past and move
    on...\r\n\r\nGetting stuck in the past / selling out to the past ...on the other
    hand... is very very dangerous.\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-10 07:56:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rorschach_blot_01_4388.jpg]Quidquid dicis.'
  created: '2013-06-10 15:39:03'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Oops, 5star, from which planet are you? What is completely new to typography
    or more widely to graphic design?\r\nWhen you see everything as black and white
    as you do there are no new typefaces. Everything we use in the western world is
    in fact in basic form a copy of things made 500 years ago when roman type was
    introduced as a melting pot between roman capitals and Karolingan minuscle. But
    when we see Jenson and Griffo as inventors of our letterforms, in what creative
    world do we live at this moment when I follow your mindset? Or is the only thing
    you reject the things you don't like in your own esthetic mind? Of course that
    is no problem. I don't like a gray world and the more difference the better it
    is. What is your favorite typeface by the way?"
  created: '2013-06-10 22:20:21'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "polka, being stuck in the past as it seems you are, I can well understand
    you not noticing design theory and design practices have evolved. If you find
    that mining the past is a good life then that's great. For me, on the other hand,
    I like to see life (in whatever form it takes) evolve and keep evolving.  Of today's
    design theories (such as Superflat to name but one of the more current) graphic
    designers, artists, composers etc., have evolved. Not all of course, only the
    ones that matter.\r\n\r\nI don't reject anything. It is not a matter of taste
    for me. It is simply a matter of design evolution in practices and in theory.
    I hate to break it to you polka, but there are actual schools and movements of
    design/art/music etc.. developing/evolving this very minute. \r\n\r\nDo you really
    think Calypso typeface could have been thought of and created 500 years ago? In
    fact forget about the technical means to product the letter shapes. The very nature
    of Calypso would of been impossible to conceive. Why is that? \r\n\r\nSorry, I
    don't have a favorite typeface. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-11 20:37:50'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "<cite>The former has an articulate elaborate graphic vocabulary ...unlike
    your twitter - esque graphic grunt.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>polka, being stuck in
    the past as it seems you are</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>I hate to break it to you polka,
    but there are actual schools and movements of design/art/music etc.. developing/evolving
    this very minute.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat's Joep done to deserve all that pissy attitude?"
  created: '2013-06-11 21:22:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Classical escalation. Not very knightly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-11 21:54:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Boarding minor, 2 min.
  created: '2013-06-11 22:01:16'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "I like a good discussion so I don't mind. I think a little different about
    our heritage and want to preserve it and try to let it be noticed, also and especially
    by design students. A lot of designers are collectors and so am I. We build upon
    the shoulders of those who came before us and it is not only what is made but
    also the discussions between designers that should be noticed.\r\nBut on the other
    hand. You talk about new stuff made today. What new stuff? I only see styling
    and almost no design. I think I am also guilty to live in that mainstream. Great
    thoughts like Bauhaus, DaDa, Swiss Style and so on are not brought to this computer
    age. I wish I had a brilliant idea to bring typography to the next level ...\r\n\r\nSomeone
    who got on that road in asking himself \u2018why should I do this the same as
    everyone did\u2019 is Pierre di Scuillo.\r\nLook on http://www.quiresiste.com/projet.php?id_projet=14&lang=fr&id_gabarit=0
    and you will see that he is really trying to invent new characters that connect
    more to the spoken language. It is a shame that his commercial typefaces are not
    as spectacular, but this is what I mean. Not rejecting anything and trying to
    move forward on what we have.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I don't live in the past and
    I don't think that my interest in nice old stuff implicates that. It is one of
    the things I do in graphic design ..."
  created: '2013-06-12 12:59:38'
- author:
    name: polkawithfontana
    picture: 122467
  body: "Superflat is a selfproclaimed art movement from the nineties. It calls itself
    Postmodern and that it is. You could say a melting pot of things like manga and
    anime. The American SoFlo version goes beyond that and is adding Pop Art. Quite
    nice and inspiring but new? I like it. But the new movement in graphic design
    and even typography? I don't think so ...\r\n\r\n5star, with Calypso you are right.
    It was something new and I explained that in my thread of Calypso. But still Excoffon
    used the traditional letterforms as starting point.\r\n\r\nI also present to you
    the Dutch PoFo version of Superflat. It is our dog Egor, the mascotte of our studio.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pooldog_3423.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nurse_5267.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OneHole_6264.jpg]\r\n\r\n5star,
    please look at it with a smile ..."
  created: '2013-06-12 15:38:01'
date: '2013-05-28 13:36:20'
node_type: forum
title: Coats of Arms of the Book Trade

---
