---
author:
  name: enne_son
  picture: 109487
body: "At the link below is a study of the effects of intraword and interword spacing
  that uses eye-tracking techniques used to study eye-movements in reading and presents
  the eye-tracking measures as providing a \u201Cmetrics of <em>readability</em>.\u201D
  This is somewhat of a departure, since most studies using eye-tracking techniques
  use the eye-tracking measures to draw conclusions about <em>processing mechanisms</em>.
  And recently the authors, Timothy J Slattery and Keith Rayner, did a study on the
  influence of text <em>legibility</em> on eye movements during reading (specifically
  in relation to ClearType technology). \r\n\r\nThe shift in eye-movement studies
  to talking about readability is noteworthy in relation to the association, in typography
  and type design circles, of readability with \u201Cthe ease with which the eye can
  absorb the message and move along the line\u201D [J. Ben Lieberman, 1967].\r\n\r\nAccording
  to the authors, their results indicate that the optimality of intra- and interword
  spacing is font specific; font designers are doing a relatively good job at selecting
  default intraword spacing values; an optimal amount of interword space will be a
  balancing act similar to finding an optimal amount of intraword space; and there
  is an interword versus intraword offsetting effect relating perhaps to the countervailing
  demands of parafoveal and foveal previewing / viewing, and the benefits to foveal
  processing of an effective parafoveal preview.\r\n\r\nThe authors also suspect that,
  [paraphrasing here] for the purpose of reading, words are more important objects
  than letters: words are the important processing unit for reading. They argue that
  [paraphrasing again] it is the properties of words and their recognition that influence
  eye movements during reading. \u201CWhile successful letter perception is a necessary
  step in reading, the bottleneck in reading performance is with word recognition.\u201D
  Associated with this there is a recognition that disruption of \u201Cthe integrity
  of word units\u201D is an issue with increasing intraletter spacing.\r\n\r\nHow
  would using eye-tracking measurements to provide a \u201Cmetrics of readability\u201D
  work? Probably more needs to be done to formalize this, but in their analysis Slattery
  and Rayner look at \u201Cglobal measures\u201D and \u201Ctarget-word-dependant measures\u201D
  to form a global picture of effects, that looks beyond significance scores to trends.
  Typophiles interested in pursuing this can buy or use their institutional access,
  if they have one to explore this by going to:\r\nhttp://link.springer.com/content/pdf/10.3758/s13414-013-0463-8.pdf\r\n\r\n\u201CEffects
  of intraword and interword spacing on eye movements during reading: Exploring the
  optimal use of space in a line of text\u201D Timothy J. Slattery, Keith Rayner.
  <em>Attention, Perception, & Psychophysics</em>, May 2013\r\n\r\n<strong>Abstract</strong>\r\nTwo
  eye movement experiments investigated intraword spacing (the space between letters
  within words) and interword spacing (the space between words) to explore the influence
  these variables have on eye movement control during reading. Both variables are
  important factors in determining the optimal use of space in a line of text, and
  fonts differ widely in how they employ these spaces. Prior research suggests that
  the proximity of flanking letters influences the identification of a central letter
  via lateral inhibition or crowding. If so, decrements in intraword spacing may produce
  inhibition in word processing. Still other research suggests that increases in intraword
  spacing can disrupt the integrity of word units. In English, interword spacing has
  a large influence on word segmentation and is important for saccade target selection.
  The results indicate an interplay between intra- and interword spacing that influences
  a font\u2019s readability. Additionally, these studies highlight the importance
  of word segmentation processes and have implications for the nature of lexical processing
  (serial vs. parallel).\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '{To Follow}'
  created: '2013-06-09 17:30:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "So, they have discovered that spacing (\u201Cselecting default spacing values\u201D)
    is a part of typeface design.\r\nShould one applaud or groan?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-09 20:33:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Larson's answer might be revealing...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-09 20:34:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Prior research suggests that the proximity of flanking letters influences
    the identification of a central letter via lateral inhibition or crowding. If
    so, decrements in intraword spacing may produce inhibition in word processing.
    Still other research suggests that increases in intraword spacing can disrupt
    the integrity of word units.</em>\r\n\r\nIn other words, existing research suggests
    that there is a sweet spot for intraword spacing, which is wide enough to minimise
    the effects of crowding but not so wide as to disrupt the integrity of the word
    as a visual unit. That conclusion shouldn't be any kind of surprise to any type
    designer or typographer. What might be interesting is developing methods to experimentally
    quantify that sweet spot, and hence determine whether that sweet spot corresponds
    to conventional text spacing as practiced by type designers and typographers."
  created: '2013-06-09 20:57:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>experimentally quantify that sweet spot</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes.\r\nBut
    you need a field scientists who's willing to give boumas a chance.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-09 21:08:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick Shinn] <em>So, they have discovered that spacing (\u201Cselecting default
    spacing values\u201D) is a part of typeface design.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, the discovery,
    if that\u2019s what you want to call it, is that spacing influences a number of
    eye-tracking measures. \r\n\r\nSentences, like \u201CThey shouted at the driver
    who wildly cut them off\u201D were used. In the first experiment 10-point Cambria
    and 10pt Times New Roman with Microsoft ClearType subpixel rendering were used.
    There were four levels of spacing: reduced by half a pixel, normal, increased
    by half a pixel, and increased by a full pixel. \r\n\r\nThe global measures of
    sentence reading used were: mean fixation duration, number of fixations, total
    sentence reading time, and comprehension question accuracy. The \u201Ctarget-word-dependent
    measures\u201D used were: first-fixation duration (the duration of the first fixation
    on the target word), gaze duration (the sum of all first-pass fixations on the
    target word), skipping rate, and the length of the critical saccade that landed
    on (or beyond) the target word. Of the target-word-dependent measures, the first
    fixation duration is interesting:\r\nSpacing: \u20131/2 px  normal   +1/2 px   +1
    px\r\nCambria: 263 (7.7) 244 (7.9) 248 (8.7) 253 (6.5) \r\nTimes New Roman 261
    (9.4) 255 (8.0) 236 (8.1) 246 (8.2)\r\n\r\nFor total sentence reading time (a
    global measure) there is this chart:\r\nwww.enneson.com/public_downloads/typophile/2013_slattery+rayner_chart.jpg\r\n[insert
    image not working for me]\r\n\r\nNot all the measures are equally informative,
    and some show complicating trends, but that\u2019s why a \u2018metric\u2019 of
    readability has to be developed around them."
  created: '2013-06-10 00:43:21'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "In well functioning text types, interletter spacing should be bear a certain
    balanced relationship to \"intraletter spacing\" i.e. counterspaces. Changing
    the spacing of a given typeface is \"breaking\" that relationship, and makes me
    wonder whether the measured reading inefficiencies reflect that the adjusted spacing
    is not in the \"sweet spot,\" or just this brokenness instead. \r\n\r\nWould it
    make sense to test well-designed condensed and expanded cuts of a typeface family
    in place of altered regular fonts?"
  created: '2013-06-10 03:25:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Craig: <em>In well functioning text types, interletter spacing should be
    bear a certain balanced relationship to \"intraletter spacing\" i.e. counterspaces.
    </em>\r\n\r\nThat's a given for most typographers. But I believe in terms of empirical
    testing it would constitute only an hypothesis, i.e. something that has not yet
    been experimentally confirmed but on which one could base reasonable predictions
    that could then be tested with a well-designed experiment. Bill Berkson has taken
    the hypothesis one step further in suggesting a reason why it might be the case:
    mental alignment of features to a perceptual grid that is aided by regular arrangement
    of visual features, i.e. your 'certain balanced relationship'."
  created: '2013-06-10 03:32:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This \u201Cmetrics of readability\u201D is just a tracking test of a couple
    fonts.\r\n\r\nIf the optimality of tracking is font-speci\uFB01c, what conclusions
    can be drawn, other than that readable typography is well tracked? \r\n\r\nD\xE9j\xE0
    vu!\u2014\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/41365\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-10 06:12:18'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "The question being addressed in this paper is what happens to the process
    of reading when you change the amount of space between letters, and when you change
    the amount of space between words. Eye tracking lets us see if these manipulations
    change the amount of time a word is fixated, the length of the saccades, and the
    number of regressions (backward saccades).\r\n\r\nWhile everyone recognizes that
    there is a sweet spot of optimal letter and word spacing, I don\u2019t think it\u2019s
    clear where that sweet spot is located, nor is it clear what happens when the
    spacing is too tight and when it is too loose. If everyone agreed on the best
    amount of spacing then we wouldn\u2019t see the difference between typefaces that
    we see today. In this study Times New Roman has a tighter default spacing than
    Cambria.\r\n\r\nMy multidisciplinary team (psychologist, typographers, mathematician,
    and computer scientists) was interested in this question, and funded Slattery
    & Rayner to find out. We also provided them with the tool that they used to generate
    their spacing conditions. Before I say anything about the results of their studies,
    would anyone like to guess what happened to fixation times, saccades, and overall
    reading time when A) letter spacing changed, B) word spacing changed, and C) if
    those changes impacted TNR and Cambria differently?\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-10 17:51:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It\u2019s a meaningless test unless you isolate the variable in one typeface.\r\n\r\n\u201CCambria\u201D
    and \u201CTNR\u201D are not scienti\uFB01c values.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t believe
    there is a sweet spot for a font\u2019s H&J values (\u201Cletter spacing and word
    spacing\u201D)\u2014it varies with document design, textual content, document
    length, media, reading conditions, and reader demographics.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-10 18:19:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Kevin: <em>If everyone agreed on the best amount of spacing then we wouldn\u2019t
    see the difference between typefaces that we see today. In this study Times New
    Roman has a tighter default spacing than Cambria.</em>\r\n\r\nIn this regard it
    is important to understand why different fonts are spaced the way they are, and
    hence why particular apples and oranges might not be the best subjects for this
    sort of testing. Times New Roman shows all the signs of inherited unitised advance
    widths from previous typesetting technology. Take a look at the advance widths
    of the upper- and lowercase letters: they are a small set of common widths, based
    on multiples of appoximately 115 units (the actual number varies, due to rounding
    from the original unit metrics to the TrueType 2048 UPM grid). So this is a font
    that has been spaced not with regard to 'the best amount of spacing', but according
    to the limitations of obsolete technology. \r\n\r\n[Unitised widths will have
    had an impact on letter proportions as well as interletter spacing. Note, for
    instance, that the counters of the lowercase <em>m</em> are actually slightly
    wider than that of the <em>n</em>, which is the opposite of most design practice.]"
  created: '2013-06-10 18:38:25'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I expect that in general, changing the tracking (all spacing including intra-word)
    or the between-word spacing will harm readability.\r\n\r\nThat being said, Times
    probably won't get hurt much by just a *little* increased tracking. It might even
    be an improvement. That would be because it was optimized to balance saving paper
    against maximizing legibility.\r\n\r\nNick: \"It\u2019s a meaningless test unless
    you isolate the variable in one typeface.\"\r\n\r\nCan you be more specific? My
    reading of this is that they did the full set of tests on *each* typeface. How
    would that be meaningless, and what could they have isolated better?"
  created: '2013-06-10 18:58:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: It seems clear from experience that spacing is affected by weight and the
    absence or presence of serifs.  This is the relative interaction of counter space
    to letter space and proximity attraction/repulsion (also stroke contrast).  Generally,
    the bolder weights need less letterspacing (which makes spacing extrabold weights
    tougher than light and open weights.  It would make sense to assume that a reader
    is looking for an amount of space where the word holds together as a word without
    either falling apart into discrete letters or jamming into an unclear mass. The
    "How Much" part is very much dependent on glyph shape interactions and would be
    very difficult to generalize about across typefaces.  Since they mention pixel
    units, I assume the whole study refers to screen reading, not print.  Units are
    much cruder on screen than print so the sweetspot would appear to be less forgiving
    than with print.  One unit tracking in print is a far finer change than one pixel
    change in screen reading of a comparable size.
  created: '2013-06-10 20:00:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thomas, I think John just did so very nicely!\r\n\r\nIn this test, what is
    the point of testing Cambria vs. Times?\r\n\r\nCertainly, it confirms that Cambria,
    designed by Microsoft for digital display, reads faster on screen at 10 pts than
    Times, designed long ago for letterpress, somewhat out of its element.\r\n\r\nSo
    this research validates Cambria according to the readability mantra associated
    with corporate ef\uFB01ciency.\r\n\r\nBut what does this reveal about the \u201Cmetrics
    of readability\u201D?\r\nIt\u2019s been obvious to typographers for 20 years that
    Times, even the heavily hinted \u201Ccore TrueType\u201D fonts distributed with
    IE, has some spacing issues\u2014accidental ligaturing, for instance\u2014at low
    resolution screen display.\r\n \r\nNow let\u2019s see Cambria go up against a
    WebType font!"
  created: '2013-06-10 20:39:45'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "In exchanges with other researchers doing spacing tests I've tried to argue
    for a better benchmark than default values. \r\n\r\nIn my personal thinking about
    spacing I\u2019m beginning to work with a notion of \u201Ccohesive equilibrium.\u201D
    A metric of cohesive equilibrium was introduced by William Dillard Orbison way
    back in the 1930s in a little-known paper published in 1939 in <em>The American
    Journal of Psychology</em>, titled:  \"Shape as a Function of the Vector-field.\"
    The paper uses ideas about dynamic forces present in gestalts which resemble those
    Chris described two posts above. This notion of cohesive equilibrium links up
    intuitively with some of the ideas I\u2019ve explored on typophile about \u201Cnarrow
    phase alignment\u201D in type, and with Gerrit Noordzij\u2019s notion of a rhythmic
    cohesion or equivalence of the whites inside and between letters.\r\n\r\nMy thought
    is that type designers and typographers shoot for a cohesive equilibrium \u2014
    the sweet spot \u2014 in their design processes, and any changes to optimal spacing
    introduced by increasing or decreasing between-letter space relative to within
    letter space, will disturb the cohesive equilibrium and affect readability. So
    a gauging of cohesive equilibrium for letters in words could provide a spacing
    benchmark. I don\u2019t know if the Orbison metrics can actually find positions
    of cohesive equilibrium in type. His study uses geometric shapes superimposed
    on complex geometric fields. I\u2019ve pointed out before that Fourier Transforms
    (frequency channel) appear to gauge phase alignment in type, independent of style,
    weight size and contrast, so now I\u2019m thinking Fourier Transforms will help
    gauge cohesive equilibrium quickly and easily.\r\n\r\nThe question for psychologists
    would be what happens to the process of reading when you change the amount of
    space between letters so letters are no longer in positions of cohesive equilibrium,
    and how does word spacing modulate this. \r\n\r\nThe mathematical challenge would
    be to find algorithms that capture the narrow phase alignment typical of well-designed
    and well-spaced type, and use this alongside of a \u201Cmetrics of readability.\u201D
    \r\n\r\nThe thing about  the eye tracker data is that some measures appear to
    point in slightly different directions and might lead to conflicting inferences,
    for example the first fixation durations (target-word-dependent measure) align
    pretty well with the overall reading time (a global measure) for experiment 1
    (see the data and link in my earlier post), but the average fixation duration
    data (a global measure) for experiment 1 shows a different trend. The + 1/2 and
    + 1 spacing perform progressively better. So a key will be to learn how to read
    the data in such a way that they will indeed provide a reliable metric of readability. "
  created: '2013-06-10 21:26:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, default values are discretionary, determined by the foundry.\r\nKerning
    has an effect too.\r\nJohn Hudson has suggested some kind of \u201Cenvelope\u201D
    algorithm for spacing.\r\n\r\nThis kind of tracking (typographic, not eye) test
    seems particularly divorced from the spacing considerations type designers address.\r\n\r\nWhile
    Fourier analysis does reveal some kind of pattern grid, I would think that spacing
    design acts against the grid in a subtle manner, so how would readability metrics
    even begin to identify how that happens?\r\n\r\nHow does fence-posting effect
    reading speed?\r\nHow does stem thickness and contrast effect fence-posting?\r\n\r\nHow
    would a readability metrics theory be able to accomodate both the incunabula and
    neoclassical methods of spacing?\u2014\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Independent_4371.png]\r\n(Image
    from the Typophile thread discussing Richler\u2019s spacing: http://typophile.com/node/102875)"
  created: '2013-06-10 22:16:49'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick] <em>While Fourier analysis does reveal some kind of pattern grid,
    I would think that spacing design acts against the grid in a subtle manner, so
    how would readability metrics even begin to identify how that happens?</em>\r\n\r\nYes!
    that\u2019s why it\u2019s <em>narrow</em> phase alignment.  In narrow phase alignment
    the information coming from the vertical strokes and the vertical means of curved
    strokes clusters around a phasal mean but rarely sits right on it. It\u2019s emphatically
    not <em>perfect</em> phase alignment. A metrics of readability is not a spacing
    formula, but would be a way of weighting and integrating the measures eye-tracking
    technology provides.\r\n\r\nIn an earlier thread we were able to see subtle but
    distinct differences in the kind of phase alignment different spacing methods
    produce."
  created: '2013-06-11 00:01:38'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "There are many interesting ideas for further study here. Peter, I too am
    interested in having a metric for evaluating the evenness of spacing within a
    typeface, though have not been satisfied with anything I\u2019ve seen yet. \r\n\r\nIt
    is not the goal of this test to compare TNR against Cambria. We\u2019ve made no
    press releases publicizing these findings. \r\n\r\nThe goal is to learn more about
    the role of letter and word space in reading: what happens to eye movements when
    you reduce letter space, when you reduce word space, when you increase letter
    space, and when you increase word space? These results could be used to inform
    future typeface designs.\r\n\r\nSince only Peter has had the opportunity to read
    the paper, would anyone else care to predict what happens to eye movements when
    letter and word space are increased or decreased?\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-11 00:19:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The logic of the sweetspot is any digression from it in either direction (given
    all other variables remain the same) would cause degradation.  The weight/contrast/shape
    values would determine the degree of degradation.  I would assume the heavier
    weights would suffer more than the lighter ones.  I would assume Times would suffer
    more than Cambria, as well.
  created: '2013-06-11 00:54:09'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: 'Chris, by degradations, I assume that you mean that all of the above would
    happen: fixation times would increase, forward saccades would get shorter, and
    the number of backward saccades would increase. Do different things happen when
    the letters are too close together versus too far apart? Do different things happen
    when words are too close together versus too far apart?'
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: "\" by degradations, I assume that you mean that all of the above would
      happen: \"\r\nKevin,\r\nWhat I mean is that their may be some correlation between
      eye movements and reading variables, but I don't buy that we really know cause
      and effect properly.  Therefore, my use of the term \"degradation\" refers to
      reading efficiency as a generality without determining if forward saccades get
      shorter or if their are more regressions. Before we can, with certainty, rule
      out other factors as contributory (such as awkward sentence construction, unclear
      wording, readers knowledge of the words  or context), I don't know what to make
      of regressions.  If I read a word or words which reminds me of something else,
      I am sure to have a regression even if I know the meaning intended by the author.
      \ I don't know how you can rule out attentiveness or distraction by other mental
      processes not in evidence. Someone with ADD may be a prime case.  Another just
      might be me seeing the possibility of a pun unintended by the author or not
      even consciously brought on by me."
    created: '2013-06-11 03:45:55'
  created: '2013-06-11 01:05:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I think, e.g. this should never be said idly...\r\n\"...the goal is to learn
    more about the role of letter and word space in reading: what happens to eye movements
    when you reduce letter space, when you reduce word space, when you increase letter
    space, and when you increase word space? These results could be used to inform
    future typeface designs.\"\r\n\r\n...without qualifying at least the ballpark
    of resolution in which the study is being done. \r\n\r\nWhat is resolution in
    this study? After all, if everything that were true about reading, was resolution-independent,
    it would be further proof that we know nothing. \r\n\r\nThen, most likely...the
    goal is to learn more about the role of letter and word space in reading at course
    screen resolutions: what happens to eye movements when you reduce letter space,
    when you reduce word space, when you increase letter space, and when you increase
    word space in huge increments relative to what readers are used to, and at lower
    resolutions than they are accustomed to reading? \r\n\r\nThese kind of results
    <em>have already</em> been used to inform typeface designs for text at lower resolutions.
    You see, it's best to leave these types of fonts alone (RE series, Verdana, Poynter
    Agate, e.g.), as far as spacing goes. It's only fonts that don't work well at
    low resolutions and small sizes, that \"seem to\" react well to re-spacing in
    low resolutions, you see...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-11 02:02:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: and yes, "different things could happen" that might be interpreted as degradation,
    but I don't know what they would be.  I might guess that too open a spacing would
    cause a reader to look more closely at individual letters instead of perceiving
    the word as a unit.  My guess with too tight a spacing is that the shapes between
    letters could be confused with counters and cause confusion like the r-n as m
    problem, c-l as d, v-v as w. Or just an unclear mashup of forms that become confusing
    and need to be reread more times in context to decipher meaning.
  created: '2013-06-11 03:58:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '[to follow]'
  created: '2013-09-06 01:14:13'
date: '2013-06-08 22:25:49'
node_type: forum
title: "Eye-Tracking Measures Provide a \u201CMetrics of Readability\u201D"

---
