---
author:
  name: Sylph
body: "OK, now that you've all seen the new iOS 7, for which some claim that it is
  \u201Cover-Helveticated\u201D, British Guardian \u201Ctested it on\u201D a designer
  and he said \u201Chairdressers\u201D: http://www.guardian.co.uk/technology/shortcuts/2013/jun/12/skeuomorphism-apple-ditched-ios7\r\n\r\nWhy
  would he say that?\r\n\r\nDo you hate the new look and typography of iOS 7?"
comments:
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Keep in mind that the interface is in beta testing and will be tweaked before
    the public release this fall. \r\n\r\nMany more shots of it are on this page if
    you scroll down: http://www.apple.com/ios/ios7/\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-13 07:08:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No amount of beta-testing is going to cure the disease of seeing reading
    as a necessary evil.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-13 15:11:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I interpret the comment as a euphemism for derogatory use of "gay", presumably
    because of the diaphanous quality of the layouts.
  created: '2013-06-13 17:43:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: That kind of comment may be a little less politically incorrect  in the UK
    than America.
  created: '2013-06-13 17:49:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You don't have to dislike gays to dislike the hairdressing industry. Or at
    the very least realize that what's good for hairdressers isn't good for a UI...
    But to me a better comparison is this: iOS7 is like the children's cosmetics counter
    in the Beijing Macy's.\r\n\r\nDiaphanous: new word to me - nice - thanks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-13 17:52:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The thing is, who wants to actually live with an anorexic supermodel with
    a speech impediment?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-13 18:48:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks, but on re\uFB02ection I\u2019m not sure diaphanous is the right description\u2014I
    just had a quick look at the link above, on my iPhone. On further examination,
    most of the page designs are quite \uFB02at and solid, although the use of Helvetica
    35 does have a bit of a \u201Csee through\u201D quality.\r\n\r\nPerhaps the use
    of such a light typeface is because \u201Cnow we can\u201D, with the high-res
    screen.\r\n\r\nThat was certainly the case for the implementation of Helvetica
    35 twenty years ago in print, when direct-to-plate output enabled high res printing
    of thin types at small size, without the attrition that occurs in photographic
    pre-press production.\r\n\r\nI discussed this in 2001: <em>Seeing the Light</em>\r\nhttp://www.gxo.com/archive/ARCHIVESPDF/General/60110SeeingtheLight.pdf "
  created: '2013-06-13 18:49:48'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> a euphemism for derogatory use of \"gay\"\r\n\r\nYes I think that was his
    intention. \r\n\r\nA significant percentage of iPhone users are female, so a less
    masculine look certainly isn't out of place. Some of the type seems a little light
    to me, but it's hard to judge from screen shots, we'll need to see how they look
    on an actual iPhone.\r\n\r\n> most of the page designs are quite \uFB02at...\r\n\r\nDefinitely
    a move toward \"flat design\", which is a current trend in interface design, although
    interestingly Apple has also added a 3D effect. The phone's sensors know when
    it's being rotated and they rotate the background in response, creating the effect
    that the icons are floating in front of the background. You can see the animation
    effect here: \r\nhttp://gizmodo.com/ios-7-instead-of-flatness-we-got-depth-512291484\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-13 19:05:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Wow. Many of the foreground/background color combos tend towards the illegible,
    or at least significantly reduced legibility.\r\n\r\nIf I had seen iOS 7 previews
    a few months ago, I would have held off on upgrading to an iPhone 5. If it actually
    ships like this I may run for the hills. Helvetica is anti-legibility enough without
    going out of their way to make it worse."
  created: '2013-06-13 20:36:08'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I dislike articles that abuse the term 'skeuomorphism'\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-13 21:01:40'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Thomas, you could just keep your current iPhone OS.  Downloading newer versions
    has always been optional.
  created: '2013-06-13 21:40:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "They do have their ways though.\r\n\r\nBTW, FYI, FWIW, yours truly called
    it, back in November:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/98524#comment-532421\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-13 21:48:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But hopefully you can still read them easily enough to dislike them!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-13 22:51:59'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "I want to know exactly who it was at Apple that fell in love with Helvetica,
    critics be damned. I'm not a Helvetica hater, but typography has come a long,
    long way since 1950s Switzerland.\r\n\r\nRegarding the 35 weight, I was always
    taught that the more you notice the features of a font, rather than the words
    and the feeling of the words, then the font has failed. Helvetica is supposed
    to be one of the most transparent, \"don't look at me\" fonts in existence, which
    is why I assume it's been chosen as the font du jour. But using the light weight
    kills that premise."
  created: '2013-06-14 02:33:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Inspired by\r\nhttp://jonyiveredesignsthings.tumblr.com/\r\nI present to
    you something that I think goes to the heart of the matter:\r\n\r\nJony \"Well,
    you can still read it, right?\" Ive redesigns Helvetica:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HelveticIve_5599.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-18 05:02:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'awwww... people don''t like. I think it''s cool to have the confidence to
    render light fonts. Licensing, rather than just making clones, is admirable, and
    it takes a lot of guts to put your name n face on the design and function of mass
    market tech products... Who else does that... wonder what''d be like if your names
    were up there. What things''d look like... '
  created: '2013-06-18 11:17:44'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "This is a screen grab of my home screen with a black background...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/iOS7_4379.jpg]\r\n\r\nSo
    far I am happy with the update."
  created: '2013-06-18 13:13:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Licensing, rather than just making clones, is admirable</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou
    must be referring to this:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chalkboard_%28typeface%29\r\n\r\nI
    have to doubt that Apple didn't make a clone for ethical reasons. But most of
    all, the proper way to do this is commissioning original custom type, like MS
    has done. But oh, I forgot, Apple is pretty cash-strapped these days... With all
    its faults, MS still respects type -and reading- more than any other large company
    I can think of. And that's what type designers should hold up as model behavior
    - as opposed to Luisel Ramos.\r\n\r\nI guess even the smartest people are not
    immune to the blinding light of brand loyalty.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-18 15:02:20'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: I don't mind light headlines as long as they're readable.  Most of the complaints
    about the interface from professional designers has been concerning the icons,
    and I agree that many of them need more work. But as I said earlier this is just
    a beta and will be tweaked before the public release this fall.
  created: '2013-06-18 15:38:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>I'm a type designer, and I look at these issue with a certain
    certainty</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou're a human who errs, just like me. Your disregard
    for the typographic good MS has been doing versus the typographic pillaging Apple
    has been doing is clear proof of that. And if you think I'm the only one who believes
    that, that would be another way you err, another way your hubris is misplaced
    (as it always is for any human).\r\n\r\nAnd here's another thing you seem to be
    blind to: I don't run.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-18 19:47:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "If its never more than a foot from your face, how bold's it got to be again?
    \r\n\r\nAnd, yes... Hrant, I agree with you completely, there is no way to commission
    a font like Comic Sans, one just has to wait for that lucky day, (or pick from
    the 1000s of such fonts available). But Helvetica, that's a different clone altogether.
    \r\n\r\nI also agree that some customer loyalty is blind, but I'm a type designer,
    and I look at these issues with a certain certainty I'm sure is beyond the usual
    blindly loyal customer. Your Ive thing is also quite distasteful. He's another
    person in a long lone of same, you don't know, but pretend too, oh so well. Faced
    by him, you'd run."
  created: '2013-06-19 03:52:24'
- author:
    name: Dan Gayle
    picture: 111595
  body: "Settle down, girls.\r\n\r\nThat Jony Ive site is awesome. Nothing like a
    little satire to rein in the extremist ends of the new OS."
  created: '2013-06-19 04:43:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I don't run\"\r\n\r\nI know.  A  blue screened human is the easiest kind
    to spot. \r\n"
  created: '2013-06-19 11:22:45'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I don't think anyone would run from Ive. He's a pretty mellow guy. ;)\r\n\r\n(That
    said, he had to work with Jobs for a decade so is probably more than capable of
    dealing with hrant if need be. ;) "
  created: '2013-06-19 17:13:15'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@Karl Stange: I find \u201CTuesday 18\u201D difficult to read."
  created: '2013-06-19 17:20:54'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> He's a pretty mellow guy. ;)\r\n\r\nI agree, and also shy. I don't think
    he's ever gotten on stage to make a presentation at an Apple keynote; instead
    they always show a video of him. \r\n\r\n> he had to work with Jobs for a decade\r\n\r\nTrue
    but Steve Jobs' wife said once that Steve was always careful not to say anything
    \"hurtful\" to Ive. My guess is that Jobs thought that Ive was too shy to take
    the withering comments that Jobs was famous for.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-19 17:59:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Then I hope he doesn't have a seizure seeing the feedback on iOS7... Except
    for the most berserker of Apple fanboys (and fanmen...) most people do see serious
    problems.\r\n\r\nhttp://j.mp/100yRxG\r\nhttp://j.mp/11w1gJS\r\nhttp://j.mp/11w1hgI\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-19 18:10:52'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "People have said there are 'serious problems' with every OS update ever made
    by any company. Every one. It's what people do. It's especially what tech bloggers
    do. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-20 00:22:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry dude, I smell denialism. This one's \"special\".\r\n\r\nBTW what do
    you think of Spiekermann's opinion(s)?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-20 00:41:55'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'm not sure what I'm denying.\r\n\r\nMy point was only that people tend
    to hate change in software UIs. They complain. And then they get used to it. Like
    me everytime I open a new version of Photoshop. \r\n\r\nAs for Spiekermann, I
    don't know what his opinion is. \r\n\r\nLooping all the way back to JamesM gizmodo
    link: cool! That's rather subtle but useful. It'll be interesting to see the interaction
    elements of the new iOS. "
  created: '2013-06-20 04:22:34'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Wait...hold on...slow down. Are you saying there's a lot of people complaining
    about something Apple did? \r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-20 04:45:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The only way there's not at least a hint of denial here is if one simply
    hasn't seen the deluge of discontent. I certainly agree that people go out of
    their way to complain (yes, especially about a UI) and I'm all for abrupt shifts
    for the better. But this is quite a bit more than the usually expected negative
    whining; people who would normally give Apple the benefit of the doubt aren't
    being able to do that any more. And actually I think that's good news.\r\n\r\nBut
    really, I'm not fixated on public opinion here - I could even grow to like those
    gaudy gradations that designers [are taught to] hate. I just believe that the
    appreciation of how type works is totally lacking; letterforms are being treated
    as just another decorative element, not vessels of language. This is the classic
    Modernist delusion, which results for example in the infamous gray rectangles
    I hope most designers now know to avoid.\r\n\r\nLet me ask this: would it be shocking
    if Ive really doesn't get typography? But I don't believe in demonizing individuals;
    it's the \"process\" that gives a celebrity a job he can't handle that's the real
    culprit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-20 04:46:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly bigger targets cause more people to take shots. But, again, it's
    the <em>kind</em> of people complaining that's telling (and encouraging for the
    future).\r\n\r\nAnd I don't think being flippant helps anything. It reminds me
    of the ~2 day period when, if you asked Siri \"What's the best smartphone?\" it
    would reply \"Nokia Lumia 900\", but then Apple hijacked that and got it to reply
    things like \"Are there other smartphones?\" :-/  Denial, flippant or not, is
    not honorable. Apple is just another underhanded, greedy corporation. It's not
    special. And that's my point. The reason <em>I</em> complain is that casting Apple
    as some sort of savior saint -a perception no other tech company has ever had
    AFAIK- does a disservice to everybody.\r\n\r\nBut really, it's all about context:
    at least on Typophile, our loyalty to type should take precedence over loyalty
    to a brand. Denying that iOS7's typography is a regression only helps Apple shareholders,
    and only in the short term.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-20 05:18:59'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "It's easy to forget that many Apple products got bad reviews from bloggers
    when first released. For example:\r\n\r\n\u2022 When Steve Jobs unveiled the first
    iMac, many bloggers were shocked that it didn't have a floppy drive (very unusual
    back then) and there were many outraged articles even at Apple fan sites.\r\n\r\n\u2022
    That antenna problem with iPhones a few years ago led to many angry editorials,
    but it eventually blew over and the phone sold well. (I had one of those models
    and never had problems.)\r\n\r\n\u2022 When the iPad was first released, there
    were numerous editorials that no one would buy it because \"iPad\" sounded like
    a sanitary napkin. Seriously, some people were really upset; some of those articles
    can still be Googled. People also said it was ugly, or was just an oversized iPod
    Touch. But it went on to be a huge success.\r\n\r\nI agree that the new interface
    needs some work, but it's a beta for heaven's sake. And bloggers know that outraged
    articles about Apple get hits. Let's see how this all pans out when the tweaked
    version is released in the fall.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-20 06:00:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good points. However the antenna problem -something Nokia and Blackberry
    had actually made public technical knowledge long ago- shouldn't be minimized,
    especially since it was another Ive form-over-function manifestation; and it's
    certainly ironic that his pretty design ended up having to be hidden under gaudy
    third-party covers. Also concerning the antenna: it ended up exposing the deceptive
    way the iPhone's signal strength indicator was set up. It's all an issue of trust,
    and I for one can't get myself to develop any...\r\n\r\nOne other thing: I don't
    at all think market success equates to social merit.\r\n\r\nNow, if the release
    version of iOS7 is typographically improved, I mean improved <em>enough</em>,
    then to me that's actually even better than getting it right from the beginning,
    because it means Apple is listening.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-20 06:13:42'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "It's so easy to get you riled up about Apple, hrant. \r\n\r\nAs for your
    complaints about the type, what are they? You've made plenty of silly obtuse jabs
    in this thread but I'm not even sure what your specific gripe is. Other than maybe
    you don't like Helvetica? Or Ive stole your lunch money in grade school? \r\n\r\nAnd
    if your gripe is Helvetica, that's valid. But that said, I don't think any underhanded,
    greedy corporations were brought to their knees due to choosing to use Helvetica.
    \r\n\r\nJust take solace in knowing that Apple will forever be going out of business
    in 6 months. "
  created: '2013-06-20 07:31:53'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: Can I pop back to the original question? I recognise exactly what he's talking
    about, because I do think Helvetica Light/Ultra light is a typeface that's highly
    associated with a certain time period and aesthetic. It popped up circa 2000,
    often oversize and gradient-happy, on a lot of beauty products, hair salons, day
    spas and so on, certainly here in Stockholm. In fact, that's what I'd think of
    too when seeing that weight of Helvetica, just as the regular (and especially
    medium) one evokes swiss design or simple 60s signage.
  created: '2013-06-20 07:35:03'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Yes, light weights of typefaces tend to be used heavily by the fashion and
    beauty industries. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-20 07:40:19'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "@ Chris Dean, I am not a fan of how it is presented but it is not difficult
    for me to read, even at a cursory glance. I would hate to read a large body of
    text set in it but that is not an issue as most web content I look at is not rendered
    in it and I read iBooks in Georgia, Iowan or Athelas. Most things I read on screen
    are set in Verdana or Georgia and they are just dandy (for me)!\r\n\r\nWhat is
    currently bugging me is the very weak design of the battery symbol. I have no
    problem with flat design (done well) but at the moment it feels like there is
    an art director with a bunch of designers and developers interpreting a brief
    but with very different ideas about how to do that. It is in beta, granted but
    when I am in the camera, mail or note apps I feel like I am on completely different
    devices, sometimes at odds with each other. That lack of cohesion bugs me a lot."
  created: '2013-06-20 08:07:38'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>\u2026but it is not difficult for</em> me <em>to read</em>.\u201D
    What about <em>others</em> who have poor vision? Or is this a personal project?
    For me, I\u2019d like to be able to catch the date with as little as effort as
    possible, say, from the bottom of a purse in a dimly lit room while looking through
    the bottom portion of my glasses which creates a bit of distortion. Out of curiosity,
    why did you select ultra light and not bold?\r\n\r\nRe battery, outline/space
    between the outline and the colour seems too thin. Again, with less than perfect
    vision, it blurs together. Should be an absolutely easy instant glance. Have a
    look at the battery icon on your Mac OS (I am on 18.8.3). There are curved ends
    to elude to three dimensions. If you don\u2019t care for 3D, and want to go flat,
    go flat and ditch your rounded corners entirely. Presently you appear to be sitting
    on the fence and have not made a confidant decision in to go in either direction.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    cohesion, I couldn\u2019t comment unless I saw other screens."
  created: '2013-06-20 12:45:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: What are the pixel dimensions of your buttons and the battery icon?
  created: '2013-06-20 12:46:53'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>tis a personal project?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nChris, why are you
    discussing this as if it is my choice? I did not design the UI and I do not work
    for Apple. I supplied a screen grab from the iOS7 beta running on my iPhone5 with
    a black background to show (anyone interested) what that contrast is like compared
    with publicity shots available elsewhere. I could not care less how this effects
    <em>your</em> ability to view the screen from the bottom of your handbag, take
    that up with Apple.\r\n\r\nI have no say in Apple's UI design choices but display
    accessibility in general (excluding my personal requirements and preferences,
    which is all I have commented on) is very important to me.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Have
    a look at the battery icon on your Mac OS (I am on 18.8.3)</blockquote>\r\n\r\nImpressive
    beta access :-) I am currently only on 10.8.4 and spend more time than I would
    like looking at the battery icon and percentage, which are better than iOS7 but
    still far from pleasing."
  created: '2013-06-20 14:30:14'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>Presently you appear to be sitting on the fence and have not
    made a confidant decision in to go in either direction.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou
    have the wrong end of the fence but that aside, if I was designing a UI, this
    is the direction I would take with the battery icons, along with optional text
    to indicate either the percentage or time remaining.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BatteryIcons_3543.jpg]"
  created: '2013-06-20 14:46:48'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: I demand a Jailbroken stark black and white blackletter UI for IOS7.
  created: '2013-06-20 17:26:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I actually have no problem with the other changes in iOS 7, from what I have
    seen.\r\n\r\nBut I have never appreciated the iOS use of Helvetica, and this looks
    to make my biggest iOS issue slightly worse, so I am griping."
  created: '2013-06-21 16:11:06'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Apple has apparently listened to user feedback about small text being too
    light. In the latest iOS beta, they are now using Helvetica Neue instead of Helvetica
    Neue Light. Only large heads still use the lighter weight.\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 05:34:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In fact a two-weight-step correction! Good news indeed, on at least two fronts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 05:38:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Another shit-storm in a teapot avoided before a non-user went berserk.\r\n\r\nJames:
    In fact, there is a new typographic feature in iOS 7 called \"Dynamic Type\".
    The claims include \"automatically adjusting font-weight, letter-spacing and leading
    for each font size.\" So this \"Top Level\", UI stuff, with subtle weight changes
    \"on request\", seems like the tip of an iceberg we can all find coolness in,
    assuming we're users. \r\n\r\nOverly light type is so serious a problem in other
    places, it's been spawning reading studies at the speed of blight. So, maybe this
    development can once again lead the way to efforts elsewhere."
  created: '2013-07-10 13:20:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, thousands of actual users who don't suffer from blinding brand loyalty
    -including people like Erik Spiekermann- can never be more right than Apple divine.
    And especially not Apple's keen fashion sense! Bow down!\r\n\r\nHey, you know
    what would be a popcorn-worthy, heartrending light-show? If somebody harped on
    Apple to get them to commission a proper custom solution from Font Bureau...\r\n\r\nSad
    to watch this self-subversion of intellect.\r\n\r\nIn contrast:\r\nhttp://venturebeat.com/2013/07/09/apple-fontgate-ends-with-thicker-helvetica-neue-in-ios-7-beta-3/#erWMTTrcKFz8s1c8.02\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 15:32:26'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: David, yes dynamic type looks interesting. Apparently you'll also be able
    to increase or decrease the default font size in Settings, which currently affects
    only Apple apps but under the new iOS will also affect 3rd-party apps which support
    dynamic type.
  created: '2013-07-10 16:19:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Getting Spiekermann to not like Helvetica is like training a cat to stay
    out of water. But I'm impressed that people know who to ask when they want to
    ask someone to not like Helvetica. That's progress.\r\n\r\nJames> ...also affect
    3rd-party apps which support dynamic type\r\n\r\nAnd that's not all, the spec
    is using <em>\"points\"</em> to refer to type size! which is perhaps moving screen
    type sizing away from this foobar ;)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/pixel1_4322.png]\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-11 13:08:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes David, you must be the only objective person in type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-11 15:04:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Getting Spiekermann to not like Helvetica...</em>\r\n\r\nHooray. At last
    I have a worthy new email sig quote."
  created: '2013-07-11 22:07:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://spiekermann.com/en/fira-for-firefox-os-2/\r\nI'm not even a big fan
    of that style of type, but it's still leagues ahead.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-08-31 16:16:30'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Agree. It least it\u2019s not more Helvetica. Which reminds me, I need a
    hair cut."
  created: '2013-08-31 19:57:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW the color scheme in this gem\r\nhttp://fuckyeahtypefacedesign.tumblr.com/post/61475663645/theyre-plume-crazy#notes\r\nreminds
    me of iOS7...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-09-18 06:49:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '{Duplicate}'
  created: '2013-09-18 17:30:50'
date: '2013-06-13 06:44:41'
title: 'New iOS: Is Helvetica a hair salon typeface?'

---
