---
author:
  name: Frida VI
  picture: 126640
body: "Hi, everyone\r\n\r\nI am a research student and right now I am designing typefaces
  as a part of my thesis. \r\nSince the debate between the group that support and
  against using type forms based on pen strokes is still continuing in the present
  as Sofie Beier wrote in the book, Reading Letters, that:\r\n\r\n\"The discussion
  of whether typefaces exist on their own merit \u2013 separate from any possible
  influence of the pen \u2013 or whether the pen is a leading force in the shaping
  of all typographical styles continues to be a matter for discussion among designers
  and scholars to this day\"\r\n\r\nI would like to ask about everybody's opinion
  on the process in developing calligraphy or original script into digital typeface.
  \r\n\r\nWould it be necessary to preserve the original strokes of the letters or
  would it be possible to eliminate the influence of the pen stroke out of the typeface
  design in order to create something new? \r\n\r\nThank you all for any comment!!
  Have a nice day!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: 'Necessary to preserve almost equals a rule - design really has no rules as
    such - if it works it works.  Do not over think designs - scholars can have discussions
    after the fact but designers should just do what works with each design. '
  created: '2013-06-27 12:43:09'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Both ways are certainly possible, it depends on what sort of typeface you're
    designing. My feeling is that pen-informed constructions give a sufficient set
    of parameters for text typeface design (the tool confers regularity and a human
    warmth to the design), whilst I haven't seen many successful non-pen-informed
    (chirographic) text designs. What that means is that alternative models using
    non-chirographic forms are ripe for exploration, probably better in subtle ways
    to avoid upsetting comfortable readability.
  created: '2013-06-27 13:11:03'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Bob: <em>[\u2026] design really has no rules as such - if it works it works.</em>\r\n\r\nBasically
    you are supplying a license for ignorance here. If type designers don\u2019t know
    the fundamentals of their profession, who else should know? And if there are no
    rules, how does one judge the outcome? I would for instance certainly distrust
    a plumber who would state \u2018if it works, it works\u2019.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    you can get away with this, like many punch cutters in the past, who by \u2018tracing\u2019
    their predecessor\u2019s letterforms automatically copied Jenson\u2019s underlying
    structures and patterns. It is therefore not very dif\uFB01cult to imagine that
    letterforms could evolve into pictures of things this way. But Gill was absolutely
    right when he stated in his <em>Autobiography</em> (1940): \u2018<em>Letters are
    things, not pictures of things</em>\u2019.\r\n\r\nFEB\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-27 13:47:02'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Design has principles not rules - rules are rigid, principles give direction
    but do not limit. In art the term works is very different than in plumbing.
  created: '2013-06-27 14:16:23'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: In art you don't have water hammer or air venting issues.
  created: '2013-06-27 14:50:55'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Bob: <em>In art the term works is very different than in plumbing.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    question is whether this is also the case for <em>applied art</em> (what type
    design is IMHO)? I know that in art there is a high <em>bla bla</em> factor, but
    I've always considered my profession as something serious.\r\n\r\nFEB\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-27 15:28:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "\"If there are no rules, how does one judge the outcome?\"\r\n\r\nYou judge
    the outcome by what works for the eye (and brain). What works for the eye is a
    matter partly of ease of reading, meaning low fatigue and ease of comprehension,
    and partly a matter of aesthetics. There are no doubt complex rules involved,
    not fully understood, in people's brains. Though particularly for aesthetics,
    tastes vary from one individual to the next.  \r\n\r\nThe important point for
    the question here is that the rules of good type\u2014such as evenness of color\u2014are
    not simply pen rules, the path that a pen would take in forming a letter. The
    rules of the broad pen were taken up as general guidelines in latin typefaces,
    and have deeply influenced expectations of readers. Thus conforming to these expectations
    helps readability to some extent. However, departing from them also can help,
    or be neutral. \r\n\r\nFor example, most z's (including in this typeface, Georgia)
    depart from pen rules by having the diagonal of the z heavy, rather than light,
    which would be dictated by a broad pen doing a down stroke at 30-45 degrees. But
    in general, beginning with Jenson, letters are founded in pen rules, but also
    regularly modify and depart from them. Both the pen rules and the modifications
    are important. In particular there is a lot of modification of strokes for evenness
    of color. These may not change what is thick and thin on a letter, but they do
    violate what the pen would do in how thick or how thin a join or part of a stroke
    is. \r\n\r\nFurther, as type history developed, there is more and more departure.
    For example, if I remember correctly Griffo had more symmetrical serifs than Jenson,
    and the asymmetrical serifs are more natural to the pen. For that matter, slanted
    letters are also more natural, but vertical ones more readable.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2013-06-27 15:35:57'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "William: <em>You judge the outcome by what works for the eye (and brain).
    What works for the eye [\u2026]\r\n\r\nWhat the eye (and brain) perceives is mostly
    the result of conditioning (which, when it comes to type and typography, differs
    per script). In <em>Art and Illusion</em> Gombrich notes on this phenomenon: \u2018<em>The
    stimulus patterns on the retina are not alone in determining our picture of the
    visual world. Its messages are modi\uFB01ed by what we know about the \u201Creal\u201D
    shape of objects.</em>\u2019 David Kindersley de\uFB01ned the matter in <em>Optical
    letter spacing</em> simpler as: \u2018<em>It is a commonplace that we see only
    what we know [\u2026].</em>\u2019\r\n\r\nFEB"
  created: '2013-06-27 15:41:26'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: In a design that works all of the elements are in tune with the final result.
    If the parts do not work well together then the result is scattered and chaotic.
    The only limit with a letterform would be that it can on longer be read as a specific
    letter. I have no idea what a high bla bla factor is but I do consider all art
    to be serious.  In Japan great calligraphy is often on a pair with painting -
    thus no distinction in seriousness for so called fine or applied art. I have long
    held we should be more like that
  created: '2013-06-27 15:44:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026the process in developing calligraphy or original script into digital
    typeface.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Would it be necessary to preserve the original strokes
    of the letters or would it be possible to eliminate the influence of the pen stroke
    out of the typeface design in order to create something new?</em>\r\n\r\nYes to
    both, as is apparent from precedent.\r\n\r\nInterestingly, the formal \u201Cjoining
    rules\u201D of calligraphy (most evident in the cancellescara style) have a logic
    which translates into OpenType feature code in a very direct manner.\r\n\r\nThis
    is not the primary issue of \u201Cthe stroke\u201D as normally discussed in type
    design, which is more concerned with the stress of various nibs, but it seems
    to me that the \uFB02ow of connected letters in writing is equally, if not more,
    fundamental.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nAs it is possible to either preserve or eliminate
    pen-ishness, the question you must ask yourself is: how do write the script in
    the first place, to be amenable to a particular interpretation process?\r\n\r\nIf,
    on the other hand, the script you choose to interpret was not created with fontworthiness
    in mind, then you must recognize in it something attractive (to you\u2014intellectually
    and/or aesthetically) which you can leverage to a greater or lesser degree according
    to the typographic effect it produces, and hence make your own. Recognizing your
    own abilities in drawing and designing, as well as being aware of what is or is
    not technically possible, are major considerations.\r\n\r\nYou will not be able
    to create Medusa, for instance, without being adept at roundhand with a pen, vector
    drawing with a mouse/stylus, and OpenType feature coding with a keyboard."
  created: '2013-06-27 18:15:44'
- author:
    name: Frida VI
    picture: 126640
  body: "Thank you all very much for your valuable opinions on the subject.  This
    discussion has shed some light on my own curiosity, which is very useful for the
    project I am  working on. In my personal point a view, I think it is better to
    understand the root of alphabets, especially on how they were constructed to build
    better typefaces. However, I had a long discuss on this matter with my supervisors.
    Both of them have different opinions on this debate.\r\n\r\nTo explain more about
    my thesis, I am working on redesign an ancient script in Thailand called Khom
    Thai to make it's more accessible for modern audiences. My first approach was
    I redesigned the script based on Thai modern grid. However, one of my supervisor
    suggested that I should use the ancient proportion to create the typefaces. On
    the other hand, the other one suggested that I should stick with the modern grid
    since my objective in this project is about modernising this type of script. For
    this reason, I thought it is better to ask for professional designers' opinions
    so thank you all again for your valuable opinions. \r\n\r\nI have put the link
    of a rough sketch I made for my project with this post. These alphabets are Khom
    script used in both Thailand and Cambodia. As you can see, the structure is quite
    complex and this script has very long ascendent and descendent, which I need to
    find the way to balance the proposition of the body and the cap height,etc. So
    I must decide whether I should design it based on its original script or use different
    approach. \r\n\r\n[[http://1.bp.blogspot.com/-oUZuNyJyZ_o/UcwiGyBTX2I/AAAAAAAAADs/056s-RzhZJ0/s1600/IMG_0124.jpg]]"
  created: '2013-06-27 20:54:17'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hm.\r\n\r\n>My first approach was I redesigned the script based on Thai modern
    grid. However, one of my supervisor suggested that I should use the ancient proportion
    to create the typefaces. \r\n\r\nWhat sort of 'grid' do you mean, and why are
    you using a grid? Converting a handwritten script to a typographic script is not
    really about using a grid; it's about enforcing regularity and evenness that handwriting
    cannot achieve.\r\n\r\n These letterforms look very much like modern-day Khmer,
    so if any grid is suitable, I'd use a Khmer grid. BUT: isn't that disrespecting
    the Khom heritage? I'd personally want to look at as many example of Khom script
    as possible, to understand the behaviour and proportions intrinsic to the script.
    \r\n\r\nBe very cautious about 'modernising' a script. Giving modern typographers
    the tools they need for complex typographic environments is not necessarily at
    all about making changes to letterforms. "
  created: '2013-06-27 23:55:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Frank: \"What the eye (and brain) perceives is mostly the result of conditioning.\"\r\n\r\n\"Mostly\"
    is not accurate, if by 'conditioning' you mean what one learns from being habituated
    to reading a particular script. \r\n\r\nWhile habituation to a particular script
    does have an important impact, there is a much larger mechanism of pattern recognition
    that the eye and brain use, and this has still bigger impact on how we process
    and see words and letters. \r\n\r\nFor example optical illusions\u2014which incidentally
    Gombrich makes much of\u2014affect practically every letter, and they operate
    outside the realm of letters as well. For example, dividing a space vertically,
    to make the division look equal the top half needs to be a little smaller. This
    rule applies whether you are designing the E or a chair or a building. It is not
    specific to scripts. \r\n\r\nMost significantly, issues of crowding, rhythm and
    color in type all are affected by eye-brain functioning in ways that are not script
    specific. Also non-linear features of optical scaling are not script specific.
    \r\n\r\nBeing aware of 'pen rules' is essential in type design. Focusing *only*
    on pen rules is a narrow and misleading way of thinking about type, because you
    can violate pen rules in ways that have good results, so long as they work with
    the human perceptual system in a congenial way. \r\n\r\nDoesn't making pen rules
    dominant mean you can only create traditional looking serif types, and of a specific
    style? I *love* traditional type, but there are a lot of wonderful other designs.
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-28 03:35:47'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "William: <em>While habituation to a particular script does have an important
    impact, there is a much larger mechanism of pattern recognition that the eye and
    brain use, and this has still bigger impact on how we process and see words and
    letters.</em>\r\n\r\nThe presence of physical conditions for pattern recognition
    seems to me a prerequisite for pattern recognition. It\u2019s interesting that
    in the past one could read about these things in publications like <em>Visible
    Language</em> and now you \uFB01nd references to how the brain works on <em>Typophile</em>.
    Even my students talk about researchers like Stanislas Dehaene.\r\n\r\nIf we <em>focus</em>
    for a moment on the Latin script, there is no proof in any form at all, nor is
    it likely that legibility researches took place prior to the cutting of punches
    in the early days of typography. Jenson, Griffo, nor any of their Renaissance
    prototypers seem to have investigated the physiological structure of the human
    visual system in relation to type. The fact that light falling on the retina excites
    photoreceptors was most probably completely unknown to the early punchcutters.
    \r\n\r\nLater in the Renaissance more became known about the real functioning
    of the eye. Leonardo Da Vinci researched the subject and his idea that vision
    \u2018<em>is a result of the eye receiving rays of light</em>\u2019 was different
    from the generally accepted idea \u2018<em>that humans had vision because of tiny
    particles projected from the eye</em>\u2019[1]. In 1604 Johannes Kepler \u2018<em>demonstrated
    the physics behind the optical workings of the eye as an aside of his astronomical
    work [\u2026] </em>Supplements to Witelo, On the Optical part of Astronomy<em>
    [\u2026]. For the \uFB01rst time, oculists had begun to accept the retina \u2013
    and not the lens as it had been assumed since antiquity \u2013 as the organ of
    vision</em>\u2019[2]. \r\n\r\nBut even after these researches, there is no evidence
    that the outcomes were taken into account by the punchcutters. Nor that they had
    any knowledge of \u2018the larger mechanism of pattern recognition\u2019.\r\n\r\n1.
    Barbara O\u2019Connor, <em>Leonardo da Vinci</em> (Minneapolis, 2003) p.51.\r\n2.
    Saad Shaikh, <em>Eyes On Ice & No Blind Mice</em> (Bloomington / Central Milton
    Keynes, 2007) p.254.\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-28 08:25:14'
- author:
    name: Frida VI
    picture: 126640
  body: "Dear Bendy,\r\n\r\nSorry that I explained it's unclear. In Thailand the people
    also used the script,which came from Cambodia before 13th Century and we adapted
    the script to be able to read/pronounce Thai language since the Thai and Khmer
    phonetics are not the same. For this reason, some alphabets are different although
    the overall appearance is quite similar. Thai people call this script \"Khom Thai
    script\" refer to Khom script (or sometimes called Khmer script) which use in
    Thai language before we developed our own script or \"Lai Su Thai\" in 13th Century.\r\n\r\nThis
    Khom Thai script was used for recording important events in our history. In Thai
    national archive, there have more than 100,000 ancient documents written in this
    script. However, in the present very few people are able to read the script and
    the public pay little attention to those documents so they are abandoned there
    without proper care. For this reason, The Thai national archive has urgent need
    for young staffs who are able to read the script to work with them.\r\n\r\nMy
    project focuses on redesigning this script to teach Thai new generation so the
    main focus is on Khom Thai script which are used in Thailand. Khom script in Cambodia
    is not the centre in the scope of my study. However, I have reviewed the history
    of Khom script used in both Cambodia and Thailand in my literature. \r\n\r\nThese
    typefaces I am working on are designed for Thai audiences that's why I have attempted
    to use Thai grid to design them. When I mentioned to Thai modern grid system,
    I didn't give details on the subject so I would like to explain more. Since the
    era of digital typefaces Thailand didn't have the standard proportion for font
    design so The Royal Institute of Thailand, a government organisation which has
    main responsibility in Thai language usage, appointed a committee to do a research
    on Thai type form  in order to create the national standard proportion for digital
    typefaces. They launched a manual in 1997 to give specification about the structure
    of standard proportion of alphabets by using Thai modern grid system, which became
    the regulation for designing typefaces.\r\n\r\nThe reason why I attempted to use
    this specification for the Khom Thai script is because my hypothesis involves
    in testing the familiarity effect whether it could help people to read it better.
    Since modern Thai type form,especially typefaces used the Thai modern grid system
    to design, is familiar for Thai audiences, I am trying to make the script more
    understandable for those who have no prior knowledge in Khom script.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I intend to use this modern typeface to test against another typeface I am designing
    based on the original handwriting of ancient people to observe whether which one
    help people to read better.\r\n\r\n The latter typeface will not use the Thai
    modern grid system to design, but the system in design will based on the analysis
    of handwriting I compiled from ancient documents. \r\n\r\nAnyway, Thank you so
    much for your comments. When you warn me to be very cautious about modernising
    a script, I think you made the right point which I might overlook at first. I
    should take this advice under my consideration before moving forward. Thanks again.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-28 11:18:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Frank: \"nor is it likely that legibility researches took place prior to
    the cutting of punches in the early days of typography\"\r\n\r\nThey don't have
    to have done scientific research; they just would have had to use their eyes sensitively
    to see what works for good readability and aesthetics. Scientific research is
    intended to explain why what works, works. But all people who do a lot of trial
    and error on writing (scribes) or type design learn by their eyes what works and
    not. \r\n\r\nWhat I am saying is that these larger issues of how the mind and
    brain function are a bigger part of the story than the specific conventions of
    a script. And these larger, common features of perception and word recognition
    allow for variation from pen rules. So departure from pen rules\u2014or, say,
    brush rules for Chinese\u2014is much more possible than if the whole story were
    rules imposed by a particular writing tool. \r\n\r\nI don't think 'writing tool
    dictatorship' is a correct way to understand either readability or aesthetics
    in type.   "
  created: '2013-06-28 14:13:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Frank, in your opinion are there perceptual processing reasons \u2014 reasons
    having to do with the structure and functioning of the reading system \u2014 why
    the things we learn from writing are important. The things we learn from writing
    (and what looking at writing that survived the test of time teaches us to see)
    are: rhythmic spacing, a consistent contrast scheme, and strategic construction.
    I don\u2019t believe producing and adjusting to rhythmic spacing and a consistent
    contrast scheme are circumstantial niceties and primarily matters of habituation,
    like getting used to the formal grammar. The formal grammar has to do with the
    language of shapes the script uses, and the the structure of the space it occupies.
    For example the roman lower case occupies a space with three vertical zones. Strategic
    construction is construction that maximizes between-letter differences while staying
    within the stroke-grammar the script uses. So, do you think there might be perceptual
    processing reasons why the things we learn from writing are important.\r\n\r\nDo
    your students find these reasons in Dehaene? (I assume you mean his 2009 book
    <em>Reading in the Brain<em>.) \r\n\r\nWhat do your students take away from the
    writings of Stanislas Dehaene? Is what they take away an obstacle to what you
    try to inculcate?\r\n\r\nFarida, my description above of things we learn from
    writing might address some of your questions about creating something new. On
    the question of violations of the scriptorial norms, I agree with Bill."
  created: '2013-06-28 15:20:48'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Peter: <em>I don\u2019t believe producing and adjusting to rhythmic spacing
    and a consistent contrast scheme are circumstantial niceties and primarily matters
    of habituation, like getting used to the formal grammar.</em>\r\n\r\nI think that
    matters like harmony and rhythm are purely relative to a model, and that every
    model includes its own rules for forenamed matters. Please have a look at my assignments
    described on the <a href=\"http://letterstudio.org/wordpress/?page_id=63\">KABK
    LetterStudio</a> website.\r\n\r\nBasically I address this topic also <a href=\"http://www.lettermodel.org/wordpress/?p=796\">here</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.lettermodel.org/wordpress/?p=786\">here</a> and <a href=\"http://www.lettermodel.org/wordpress/?p=26\">here</a>.\r\n\r\nFEB"
  created: '2013-06-28 16:17:22'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Thanks Frank, I will work my way through your links.\r\n\r\nThe point I was
    tring to make though, is that: if the rules of the model (I'm assuming you mean:
    script) as they apply to the shape of the stroke and how strokes combine, as well
    as the spacing, \"harmony,\" and \"rhythm\" protocols intrinsic to the model,
    aren't implemented consistently across the script or in it\u2019s use in type-setting
    contexts, there are perceptual processing consequences. These I would argue are
    in the realm of word-level gestalt-busting effects that disturb the passage of
    the visual information through the visual cortex. They disturb the passage of
    the visual information through the visual cortex, because they disturb the cohesive
    equilibrium of the shapes and shape-primitives in the whole gestalt."
  created: '2013-06-28 17:14:48'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "Peter: <em>[\u2026] I\u2019m assuming you mean: script [\u2026]\r\n\r\nNo,
    I really mean <em>model</em>. I explain this <a href=\"http://www.lettermodel.org/wordpress/?p=26\">here</a>.
    \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Scripts_systems_models_6218.jpg]\r\n\r\nFEB"
  created: '2013-06-28 18:42:59'
- author:
    name: Frida VI
    picture: 126640
  body: "Dear Peter,\r\n\r\nThank you for your advice. Now I have plenty idea to improve
    my project!"
  created: '2013-06-28 23:07:38'
date: '2013-06-27 11:46:10'
title: Would it be necessary to preserve the original pen strokes of the letters in
  designing digital typefaces?

---
