---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "Cross-posting this message from the OpenType / MPEG Open Font Format lists.
  \r\n\r\n<BLOCKQUOTE> \r\nDear OpenType /MPEG OFF List members,\r\n\r\nToday at the
  Microsoft //build conference in San Francisco,  Dan McLachlan of our Graphics team
  will talk about Windows 8.1 approach to color fonts. We'd like to thank P22, Monotype,
  The Font Bureau and FontFont for providing us with font data that we were able to
  use to test this approach.\r\n\r\nOur implementation uses a base glyph for reference,
  which would be used for non-color situations. A data structure, implemented as a
  new 'COLR' table in OpenType, breaks down the base glyph into a separate set of
  glyphs, each with its own z-order and single color reference. The color references
  are handled has palette indices, with a separate table, 'CPAL' in OpenType that
  resolves the RGBA colors actually used for the glyph.\r\n\r\nWe plan to submit documentation
  on this approach for standardization through the ISO MPEG process (for inclusion
  in the Open Font Format) within the next few weeks. However, if you'd like to see
  the approach in practice you can download the Windows 8.1 Preview and see a color
  font (Segoe UI Emoji) used on the touch enabled keyboard.\r\n\r\nI'll also be giving
  a talk at TypeCon on this, hope to see some of you there.\r\n\r\nThanks, Michelle\r\n</BLOCKQUOTE>\r\n\r\nA
  video of the session should be posted here at some point... http://channel9.msdn.com/Events/Build/2013/3-191
  \ \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "{To Follow}\r\n{With Glee}"
  created: '2013-06-26 23:12:40'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: Si, is there a link available for the original mailing list post?
  created: '2013-06-26 23:39:01'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: "Here is a link:\r\nhttp://tech.groups.yahoo.com/group/mpeg-OTspec/message/986\r\n\r\nBut
    you probably need to be a member of the group to see it."
  created: '2013-06-26 23:48:23'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Thanks, Michelle. That\u2019s what it looks like."
  created: '2013-06-27 00:43:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<blockquote>A data structure, implemented as a new 'COLR' table in OpenType,
    breaks down the base glyph into a separate set of glyphs, each with its own z-order
    and single color reference. The color references are handled [as] palette indices,
    with a separate table, 'CPAL' in OpenType that resolves the RGBA colors actually
    used for the glyph.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat sounds tidy.\r\n\r\nHow are the separate
    colour glyphs combined and aligned correctly?\r\n\r\nTransparency levels would
    be cool, so designers could do funky things with overlaying shapes. Any support
    for that, or are all CPAL values solid colours?"
  created: '2013-06-27 00:59:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'We''ll post full specs soon. We hoped to have them to coincide with the event
    but Greg Hitchcock is on vacation and we had other higher priorities before he
    left. '
  created: '2013-06-27 01:17:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Here, with thanks to Si, is an illustration of the basic approach, as implemented
    in the MS colour emoji font included in the Win8.1 preview. The 'base glyph' is
    the single-colour representation of the character (in this case U+1F630), and
    the three COLR table glyphs are mapped from it. Note that each COLR table glyph
    shares the advance width of the base glyph, and the outlines are arranged so as
    to appear in the correct positions when the widths are overlayed (presumably a
    DirectX layout engine operation).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/u1F630_3783.png]\r\nEach
    of the COLR table glyphs would be assigned a colour reference, mapped to an RGBA
    value in the CPAL table (I presume this is simply an efficiency, rather than storing
    the RGBA values directly in the COLR table).\r\n\r\nIt's an admirably simple system,
    at least on the font side. I can imagine all sorts of tricky business on the rendering
    side to deal with the antialiasing."
  created: '2013-06-27 02:51:42'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Those new tables COLR and CPAL looks like a very clever solution.\r\n\r\nJohn
    illustration reminded me of the Underware Sauna dingbats system:\r\nhttp://underware.nl/fonts/sauna/features/dingbats/dingbats#p5"
  created: '2013-06-27 03:28:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Assuming this uses OT compatible contours, i'm all for new tables. \r\n\r\nAre
    there missing parts off the grab, in that example, or contours being stroked?"
  created: '2013-06-27 03:42:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "No missing parts. The base glyph is an outlined b/w representation of the
    emoji. The colour version is made up of simple, un-outlined bits. I don't have
    access to the COLR and CPAL  tables, so I'm not sure what the colours used are,
    but I presume it is something like this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/u1F630col_5103.png]"
  created: '2013-06-27 04:42:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I don't seem to be able to upload a screen grab at this time, but those colors
    are close to those on the touch keyboard. :-)
  created: '2013-06-27 04:49:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "This is going to be my first use of the new tables: something I've been waiting
    to do for 15 years.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nyalacol_4409.png]\r\n\r\n[Apologies
    for any spelling errors; the original manuscript is damaged and some of the characters
    quite hard to identify.]"
  created: '2013-06-27 04:56:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The base glyph is an outlined b/w representation of the emoji.\"\r\n\r\nI
    know but where's the w gonna come from in this emoji. Color has three opponents:
    size, device and user preferences. So don't we have a MUST for legible b/w from
    color?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-27 12:16:36'
- author:
    name: MichellePerham
  body: "Dan's demo is now live:\r\nhttp://channel9.msdn.com/Events/Build/2013/3-191\r\n\r\nHe
    starts talking about color fonts about 9 minutes into the talk. I wasn't able
    to be there in person, so I'm seeing the talk for the first time myself. Very
    exciting!"
  created: '2013-06-27 18:39:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I know but where's the w gonna come from in this emoji.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    this particular emoji, the only 'white' is the background, which is just the same
    as for any other glyph. If one were designing a colour font which involved white
    counters, one would have a couple of different options, depending whether you
    wanted the counter to be the background colour or explicitly white. For the first,
    you would need to design the COLR glyphs with knock-through counters. For the
    second you would create counter outlines as separater COLR glyphs and assign a
    white colour to them (I'm guessing this is what happens for, e.g. the teeth in
    grinning face emoji, since you want the teeth to be white regardless of the background
    colour).\r\n\r\nIf you're using the knock-through approach to have background
    colour counters, then of course things may look crap if the glyph is displayed
    on an inappropriately coloured background, but that's true of regular fonts too.\r\n\r\n<em>So
    don't we have a MUST for legible b/w from color?</em>\r\n\r\nThe legible b/w is
    the base glyph. I'm guessing that there be accessibility options to disable colour
    font display for people with colour-blindness.\r\n\r\nThis colour font scheme,
    as I understand, does not allow for user preference in the selection of colours.
    It's an explicit colour model in which the colour is determined by the font maker,
    not by the user. That said, the COLR table structure would seem to permit the
    possibility of CPAL overrides if that were something software makers saw a value
    in supporting. So, for instance, the COLR table might split representation of
    a character into three glyphs, assigned colour references of 1, 2 and 3. Those
    colour references would normally be mapped to specific colours in the CPAL table,
    but it seems to me that a piece of software could interrupt at that stage and
    allow the user to specify colour mappings for those references that differ from
    what the font maker intended. I don't know how likely that is in terms of anyone
    bothering to do it, but it would seem to be possible."
  created: '2013-06-27 19:25:14'
- author:
    name: Sylph
  body: What manuscript is that from?
  created: '2013-06-27 19:32:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Interaction between OpenType Layout GSUB features and COLR decompositions
    could be fun. It would probably require multiple, variant base glyphs with separate
    decompositions, but then one could do things like contextually changing colours
    or assigning different colour patterns to Stylistic Sets.
  created: '2013-06-27 19:36:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yikes! I see the b/w glyph is complete. \r\n\r\n>This colour font scheme,
    as I understand, does not allow for user preference in the selection of colours.\r\n\r\nAlong
    the way on this had a co-worker scramble up the font menu UI to \"load up\" the
    cursor with multiple fonts, defining the layering and colors just like any other
    font menu but with multiple fonts being specced. \r\n\r\nThat'd work with these
    color fonts, I think, if there is a color called \"user choice\" which, with the
    cooperation of apps, triggered interaction. \r\n\r\nBut I wonder if interaction
    just on font color is something software makers might see a value in supporting.
    Maybe not. But if ANIM and TIME tables were added, then all kinds of support might
    break out, (and then, once SIZE is surrounded by trouble without coming into being...)
    :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-27 22:57:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But I wonder if interaction just on font color is something software
    makers might see a value in supporting. Maybe not.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's troubling,
    because while I can see making the colouring of something like emoji explicit
    in the font design, once we get into <a href=\"http://www.typography.com/images/blogImages/rob-roy-kelly-chromatic.png\">chromatic
    letterforms</a> this approach, where the font maker defines the colours to be
    used, will be unnecessarily limited."
  created: '2013-06-27 23:13:23'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "I would hazard that drawing colorized characters is not going to transfer
    well over to the typesetting area, and will be strictly limited to applications
    such as web browsers and messaging apps.\r\n\r\nYou would need a 'toggle' option
    to switch from B/W to colorized fonts. And then the colors appear as RGB in your
    output file. Conversion to CMYK should not be a problem in most workflows, but
    you might want custom spot colors. Perhaps one would want an option to get the
    'exploded' emoji -- all separate parts, to be colored individually.\r\n\r\nNevertheless:
    from a technical point of view, this solution is superior to the ugly scaling
    bitmaps we've seen so far. Except now the target audience (the Instant Messaging
    Generation) is going to ask for \"eye candy\" such as gradients, transparency,
    animation ... sounds ...  (cry emoji)  (animated and with \"boo-hoo\" sound clip)."
  created: '2013-06-28 10:08:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...colorized characters is not going to transfer well over to the typesetting
    area...\r\n\r\nWith all due respect, I estimate having made 678 fonts for chromatic
    use in  the typesetting area, (another 345,789 were abandoned ideas and 65 missing
    in inaction.) They are hard to use, especially with multiple size masters, but
    we and 1,000s of others, have made them for print. So maybe I misunderstand your
    point.\r\n\r\nWhat is true though, is that none of the proposals have room for
    user choice beyond which font or which glyph. Right? So it's hard not to agree
    that the web is where this is going to happen for either print or online use.
    As long as the format can store the separated stack, we can offer a simple interface,
    they can edit the colors. 3 steps instead of 2. \r\n\r\nWithout \"user choice\",
    I'm thinking of an app that automatically pops a menu, if there's an all white
    cpal. ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-06-28 12:40:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Two quick clarifications. I believe the lower level DirectWrite APIs give
    the developer the ability to define their own palette colors. Secondly the Segoe
    UI Emoji font in the Windows 8.1 Preview includes two palettes, one for when the
    emoji are displayed on a dark background (eg. the touch keyboard key caps) and
    one used when they are displayed on a light background.  But as with many font
    related features, building UI and mark up to expose them is the hardest part.\r\n\r\nFor
    traditional chromatic fonts, each layer (color) could also be exposed as separate,
    distinct stylistic sets, which would provide the level of customization needed
    by the high-end professionals. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2013-06-28 13:46:27'
- author:
    name: Arthus
    picture: 116411
  body: "Now this seems like some sleepless nights up ahead... And a pc for testing...
    \r\n\r\nI expect the tested glyphs have a slight overlay with each color 'layer'
    (can't see it on the previews though) to prevent anti aliasing letting other colors
    seeping through. Or they should be hinted accordingly I guess?"
  created: '2013-06-29 08:54:35'
- author:
    name: nemo
    picture: 121040
  body: "I\u2019d have liked to have seen an optional \u2018interpolate\u2019 flag
    for some layers, to allow emulation of the kind of smooth shading the bitmap fonts
    enjoy.\r\n\r\nIt will be interesting to see how such fonts are used in PDLs such
    as PDF. I imagine they are deconstructed into separate overlaid glyphs."
  created: '2013-07-03 15:21:27'
- author:
    name: lorp
  body: "John says: \u201C\u2026 the user to specify colour mappings for those references
    that differ from what the font maker intended. I don't know how likely that is
    in terms of anyone bothering to do it\u2026\u201D\r\n\r\nI think it could prove
    rather convenient:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/hwt/american-chromatic/\r\nhttp://www.photolettering.com/letterer/\r\nhttp://www.typography.com/fonts/shades/overview/\r\nhttp://blog.fontdeck.com/post/8383559711/chromaticfonts\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/type/browser/html/readmes/ZebrawoodStdReadMe.pdf\r\n\r\nFor
    symbol fonts too, one can easily imagine a colour version of the Maki font that
    is proving popular in cartography:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mapbox.com/maki/\r\n\r\nIn
    a colour version it would make sense to colour all water (there are 4 glyphs containing
    water in the font) with the same palette index, such that it could be altered
    font-wide. An organization having a green or blue in their identity could thereby
    tint all water in Maki to match.\r\n\r\nImplementation in CSS for colour webfonts
    can be quite easily imagined. For example, to change the background colour of
    all the emoji faces (which use, say, palette index 3) from yellow to pink across
    all emoji faces you might do something like:\r\n\r\n<code>font-feature-settings:
    \"palette\" 3 #ffcccc;</code>\r\n\r\n- Laurence"
  created: '2013-07-04 09:42:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Appropriate to today's holiday in the US, here is a sample of a colour font
    from 1857, shown in a specimen of types from the Philadelphia firm of L. Johnson
    & Co. (a copy of this rare specimen is currently available for purchase from <a
    href=\"http://www.collingeandclark.co.uk/\">Collinge & Clark</a>).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LJohnson_4093.jpg]\r\n\r\nThis
    is another example of a font for which it wouldn't make much sense to use colours
    other than these. Unless you're <a href=\"https://www.google.ca/search?q=jasper+johns+flag&tbm=isch&tbo=u&source=univ&sa=X&ei=3PXVUfuDEO7jigKp_IDoBQ&ved=0CC4QsAQ&biw=1246&bih=1450\">Jasper
    Johns</a>."
  created: '2013-07-04 23:24:30'
- author:
    name: nemo
    picture: 121040
  body: "I haven\u2019t seen any documentation of the tables but the contents are
    mostly straightforward:\r\n\r\nThe COLR table describes the layers that replace
    the uncoloured version of a glyph. Three longs hold the number of glyphs, the
    offset to the glyph array and the offset to the layer array. Then there\u2019s
    a short holding the number of entries in the layers array.\r\n\r\nThe glyph array
    comprises three shorts, the GID to replace, the index into the layer array and
    the number of layers in this glyph (consecutive entries in the layers array).\r\n\r\nThe
    layers array comprises two shorts, the GID representing that layer component glyph
    and the colour palette index.\r\n\r\nThe CPAL table holds the colour palette and
    is slightly more mysterious. The header comprises a long (0x2c), a short (2 \u2013
    number of shorts per entry or colour format?) and a short which is the number
    of entries in the palette. Then there\u2019s a long of the offset to the palette
    array, then that 0x2c long again.\r\n\r\nThe palette array (for this format?)
    comprises four bytes \u2013 R, G, B, A where A=255 means solid.\r\n\r\nSo it\u2019s
    all pretty trivial. Layering must occur after any GSUB substitutions, obviously,
    not that they\u2019re likely. Other colour formats may be possible (CMYK, Lab
    etc) but there\u2019s no reason why software can\u2019t decompose the layers and
    apply whatever colours it likes to the layer glyphs.\r\n\r\nA note on efficiency:
    The Segoe UI Emoji font in Windows 8.1 could be more tightly defined \u2013 the
    repetitions in the palette indicate a lack of automation but more wastefully there
    are many cases where whole glyphs are repeated \u2013 a colour layer being identical
    to the monochrome original for example, or layer elements being repeated from
    glyph to glyph.\r\n\r\nAs can be seen, the COLR table itself doesn\u2019t place
    any such restrictions on the arrangement or ordering of the glyphs themselves.
    There\u2019s also some slight inconsistency regarding overprint, or overlap. Some
    layers overlap quite happily if composed in the correct order, others are designed
    with knockouts and could be composed in any order. Odd.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m not sure
    the alpha is much use beyond shadows, as any colour effects could have been decomposed
    and as I said before, I\u2019d have liked to have seen optional interpolation
    between layers to achieve some degree of smooth shading, but it may be that a
    more complex format of CPAL would allow gradients to be defined, which may be
    enough.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft\u2019s current love affair with flat slabs of colour
    will not last forever."
  created: '2013-07-05 17:32:03'
- author:
    name: lorp
  body: "Thanks for the timely example, John. You write \u201CThis is another example
    of a font for which it wouldn't make much sense to use colours other than these\u201D.
    I disagree. While it might not make much sense to use colours other than \u201Cred\u201D,
    \u201Cwhite\u201D and \u201Cblue\u201D, it makes a lot of sense to allow the user
    to choose the precise shades of each, and to decide whether the white should be
    (opaque) white or transparent."
  created: '2013-07-08 17:08:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I was about to respond that, surely, the precise colours of the US flag are
    officially specified somewhere. <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Standard_Color_Reference_of_America\">They
    are</a>, and yet...\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flag_of_the_United_States#Colors\"><blockquote>Sometimes,
    Pantone Matching System (PMS) approximations to the flag colors are used. One
    set was given on the website of the U.S. embassy in London as early as 1998; the
    website of the U.S. embassy in Stockholm claimed in 2001 that those had been suggested
    by Pantone, and that the U.S. Government Printing Office preferred a different
    set. A third red was suggested by a California Military Department document in
    2002. In 2001, the Texas legislature specified that the colors of the Texas flag
    should be \"(1) the same colors used in the United States flag; and (2) defined
    as numbers 193 (red) and 281 (dark blue) of the Pantone Matching System.\"</blockquote></a>\r\n\r\nBut
    surely the white stars and bars are meant to be solid white, and not transparent."
  created: '2013-07-08 18:54:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[follow]'
  created: '2013-07-08 19:09:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "A color font format, or a colored font format? In any case, this step at
    least addresses the issue of coordinate crowding.\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-08 20:04:01'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "US Federal government colour specifications are defined in a specifications
    document called <a href=\"http://www.fed-std-595.com/\">\"Federal Standard 595B\"</a>.
    You can buy their colour swatch fan book(s), but you are still stuck having to
    approximate with more common Graphic colour standards like Pantone. ADA \"Accessible\"
    blue  \"shall be equal to Color No. 15090 in Federal Standard 595B\" Or, Pantone
    300 is close enough. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-08 20:07:42'
- author:
    name: lorp
  body: "John wrote: \u201CBut surely the white stars and bars are meant to be solid
    white, and not transparent.\u201D\r\n\r\nThey\u2019re (nicely) transparent in
    your own example!"
  created: '2013-07-19 17:21:52'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I made my QuickDraw GX font at Apple GX font Safari out of Compugraphic's
    Stars&Stripes font and it morphed into a bomb and then exploded. It would make
    a good colourful font today for an Al Jazeera fourth of July commercial. \r\n\r\nErik
    and Just won with their typewriter ribbon changing Trixie font but they won a
    booby prize of a Powerbook 100 that would catch on fire. \r\n"
  created: '2013-07-22 17:20:50'
- author:
    name: erwindenissen
    picture: 113051
  body: "We've just released FontCreator 7.5 which supports the new scalable color
    font extension ('COLR' and 'CPAL' tables).\r\n\r\nSo people who like to learn
    more about this extension, can use FontCreator to see how color fonts work, and
    how to design/construct them.\r\n\r\nYou can see a video here:\r\nhttp://www.high-logic.com/"
  created: '2013-08-02 17:25:07'
- author:
    name: gasyoun
    picture: 115516
  body: "@John Hudson \r\nCould yo show a small Nagari sample, please, with dandas
    and bindu's in red ink?"
  created: '2013-08-03 14:27:43'
date: '2013-06-26 22:38:59'
title: Windows 8.1 Preview color font support

---
