---
author:
  name: dudefellow
body: "Here is a spelling reform for English that I propose [See image \"EnglishSpellingReformEmblemJPEG\"].\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EnglishSpellingReformEmblemJPEG_4348.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: The phonetic symbol in the sixth column and fifth row of the table on the
    right hand side should be the same as in the cell of the fifth column and fifth
    row.
  created: '2013-07-04 23:06:15'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: How about posting a copy of the image that is perhaps 15% of the size you
    have it now? It's so damned big I can't in any way see it all, even reducing my
    browser view to the bare minimum.
  created: '2013-07-04 23:16:48'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "Here is the smaller image requested [See Copy of EnglishSpellingReformEmblemJPEG15percent]:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Copy
    of EnglishSpellingReformEmblemJPEG15percent_4847.JPG]\r\nThere is no reason for
    the capital version of the symbol in the eighth column and seventh row of the
    right hand table except that it was converted by automatic capitalization by the
    word processor software I was using."
  created: '2013-07-04 23:29:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Most would-be reformers propose, in a variety of misguided ways, to 'simplify'
    English spelling. There doesn't seem to be any risk of that here, so this is in
    its way oddly refreshing.
  created: '2013-07-04 23:55:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow.\r\nIndeed <em>more</em> complexity is what we need.\r\nBut you'd need
    a king to make this happen.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-05 00:40:08'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Although I can't really determine, from the image, how it is proposed to
    reform English spelling, while most reforms do aim at simplifying the spelling
    by making the rules uniform, as that implies having one symbol for each sound,
    that usually involves increasing the size of the alphabet to about 45 letters,
    because that's about the number of phonemes in the English language.\r\n\r\nSo
    the fact of a larger alphabet in itself doesn't mean things will be made more
    complicated."
  created: '2013-07-05 05:51:56'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "Yesterday I pointed out the phonetic symbols in the cell of the sixth column
    and fifth row and the cell of the eighth column and seventh row. In both of these
    cells, another allophone represented by their different phonemes is the one that
    is represented in the International Phonetic Alphabet by \"double storey a\" where
    it occurs in diphthongs. It might seem strange to some of you if in my phonemic
    system, the same allophone can be represented by different phonemes; for example
    the first part of the diphthongs in the words \"how\" and \"high\". There are
    also differences in pronunciation that arise due to dialectal variation, which
    is a good reason for the benefits of a phonemic orthography. The table of the
    right hand side is supposed to contain phonemes rather than the more precise phonetic
    allophones, but I had to represent them by the symbols of the International Phonetic
    Alphabet, even though this leads to overcrowding in the cells, because there is
    not a well-known publically disseminated conventional phonemic symbology for English;
    although even if there were, it would probably be not the same as the system that
    I use. The acoustic, phonological and articulatory phonetic theory that I developed
    indigenously for the English language differs from the one that I expect educated
    phoneticians to be familiar with. I emphasize that my spelling reform is phonemic
    more than phonetic to the degree of allophonic. To explain the distinction between
    a phoneme and an allophone by way of a typographical analogy, consider the graphical
    difference between a letter modified by the context of its surrounding letters
    in a ligature compared to how it normally appears when not ligatured. We would
    not say that the \"f\" in the ligature \"ffi\" is a different letter of the alphabet
    than an ordinary \"f\". Similarly, phonemes are phonetically distorted from their
    recitation forms to allophones by the context of their adjacent phonemes, such
    as by articulatory assimilation and anticipation, but we would not in every case
    say that they become different phonemes by these processes, unless it is something
    akin to epenthesis or elision, as examples.\r\n\r\nIn the cell of the eleventh
    column and fifth row of the table on the right hand side, the phonetic symbol
    should be \"z\" rather than \"s\".\r\n\r\nquadibloc 4 Jul 2013 \u2014 9:51pm:
    \"how it is proposed to reform English spelling [...] having one symbol for each
    sound, that usually involves increasing the size of the alphabet to about 45 letters\"\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see from the table on the right hand side, the phonemic system that I
    propose for the English language has far fewer symbols than 45. In fact, I manage
    quite well with only thirty, two of which are very rare except etymologically
    and tend to be pronounced correctly only in words imported from foreign languages.
    The discrepancy in number of symbols to sounds arises for the most part in what
    other phoneticians call \"rhotacized vowels\". I do away with such a notion, as
    I do not consider them to be phonemes. I also divide diphthongs each into two
    phonemes, which are then treated as merely allophonic variations of monophthongal
    targets. This gets rid of some more phonetic symbols for vowels."
  created: '2013-07-05 11:45:38'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: The phonetic symbols in the cell of the fourth column and eighth row of the
    right hand side table should be the same as those in the two cells of the fourth
    column and fifth and sixth rows. I expect that it should have been possible to
    guess its approximate correct sound from the patterns assigned to the other vowels
    in the right and middle tables. The letter when it has this pronunciation may
    in most cases be considered to be a rhotacized vowel because it most usually occurs
    before a following letter "r". Nevertheless, this rhotacized vowel would not be
    considered to be a phoneme in itself separately from all non-rhotacized vowel
    phonemes, since it does not occur contrastively with respect to them in the absence
    of a following "r".
  created: '2013-07-05 15:36:00'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> But you'd need a king to make this happen.\r\n\r\nOr convince the general
    public to start using the new system, which seems extremely unlikely.           "
  created: '2013-07-05 16:59:50'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Since I can't make heads or tails of your charts, it's rather difficult to
    comment on this other than by saying that some sort of explanation should be included
    along with this. Why are there so many duplicate symbols in your lower two charts?
    (/\u0263/ and /x/ occur at least twice despite the fact that the former is not
    a phoneme of English, and the latter only occurs in a rather small number of dialects.
    /f/ and /v/ appear at least four times each for reasons which are a complete mystery,
    as do many other symbols.) Also, if you claim to be creating a phonemic system,
    why do /ts/, /ks/, /gz/ and /ft/ appear in your table at all? These are sequences,
    not phonemes.\r\n\r\nMost importantly, if you want to propose a spelling reform,
    you'll need to point out what you think is wrong with the current system before
    trying to explain why people should bother with your new system.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2013-07-05 19:56:24'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "There is another way of portraying the same information but by means of only
    a single table, with each letter grapheme of the English Roman alphabet appearing
    only once on one axis and a list of sounds on the perpendicular axis. Some of
    the sounds are phonemes, while others are diphones, because sometimes a letter
    can behave as a diphone in English spelling. Then the cells in the table at the
    intersections of the columns and rows contain the characters that I propose for
    the spelling reform. I drew such a table before designing the picture figure with
    three tables that I have shown above, and perhaps I can scan a version for you
    soon. The reason that I made the diagram with the three squares is that it suggests
    how the characters in the middle matrix can be given keyboard encoding shortcuts
    in such a way that each letter can be typed by a permutation of just two keys
    selected from only eleven, using the co-ordinates of the columns and rows; and
    also because I thought it would look better by not having empty cells. \r\n\r\nagisaak
    5 Jul 2013 \u2014 11:56am: \"Why are there so many duplicate symbols in your lower
    two charts?\"\r\n\r\nThere may seem to be \"duplicates\" in the lower two tables
    because, firstly, most letters of English spelling are capable of more than one
    pronunciation. So a letter will appear in the left hand table as many times as
    the number of possible pronunciations it could have. Secondly, a given sound,
    or set of sounds*, can be represented in more than one way by different letters,
    and therefore those sounds appear more than once in the right hand table. For
    any given cell in the middle table, its corresponding sound occupies the equivalent
    row and column of the right hand grid, while the letter of English spelling that
    was used for it before the spelling reform appears in the same row and column
    of the left hand square.\r\n\r\n*The above paragraph should address the question:\r\n\"you
    claim to be creating a phonemic system, why do /ts/, /ks/, /gz/ and /ft/ appear
    in your table at all? These are sequences, not phonemes.\"\r\nSuch examples are
    diphones, and often affricates, consisting of two phonemes each, but are represented
    by single letters in English spelling.\r\nThe right hand table in some cases attempts
    to show their true diphonic nature as would be required for a proper phonemic
    system. An algorithm could be used to convert from the spelling system of the
    middle square table to a perfectly phonemic system that can be placed in the right
    hand table.\r\n\r\n\"(/\u0263/ and /x/ occur [...] despite the fact that the former
    is not a phoneme of English, and the latter only occurs in a rather small number
    of dialects. \"\r\n\r\nFirst of all, \"number of dialects\" and the number of
    speakers of a dialect are mainly quite irrelevant to optimality of a system of
    spelling reform, or even invention of new spellings or orthographies or systems
    of writing for previously unwritten languages. An optimal system of writing for
    a particular language should be designed in such a way as to be accommodating
    to all or as many as possible of the spoken dialects. This can be achieved by
    explicitly including in the spelling letters for sounds that are pronounced by
    one dialect although they may be silent or absent or pronounced differently in
    the same word in another dialect of that language. If it is by being pronounced
    differently in a dialect rather than by being silent or absent that is the cause
    of the difference between the dialects, and if that different pronunciation or
    phoneme is not a member of the inventory or set of phonemes in another of the
    dialects, then the orthography should represent the sound as though it is being
    pronounced in the dialect to which the sound is unique. Thereby, speakers of dialects
    for which the phone is not part of their inventory will still be able to read
    the spelling by simply substituting what would be probably the phonetically nearest
    sound that corresponds to the letter in their dialect, while the speakers of the
    dialect in which the sound is a unique variety will not be at a loss to supply
    the pronunciation that it has for them, and in that manner local regional and
    minority accents will not be marginalized or oppressed.\r\n\r\nNow, the voiced
    velar fricative /\u0263/ may not be pronounced as such in the English language,
    but it can occur in words imported from foreign languages, such as the Irish Gaelic
    language. Consider the word \"ogham\". If there be no letter to represent it in
    spelling, then there would be a very high likelihood that the phoneme would lose
    its original pronunciation. The unvoiced dorsal fricative /x/ does occur in the
    Gaelic word \"loch\", and is maintained as such in certain dialects, so why should
    it not be given a place in the spelling? After all, people who do not know how
    to pronounce it correctly are well entitled to use the nearest sound that they
    can find in their own dialect, and should not encounter any difficulty in reading
    its specially assigned letter, since they could make their compensatory substitution
    every time and get used to it.\r\n\r\nMoreover, characters for these phonemes
    are useful in retaining etymological information, which dictionary makers and
    influencers of spelling have been keen to preserve. Hence, my proposal does not
    damage etymological clues in the spelling. I think this is important, although
    other people might not agree, but what is there to lose by an extra silent letter
    in a word if it is helpful to the reader in understanding the meaning, the history
    and origins of the word, and its constituent morphemes?\r\n\r\nagisaak 5 Jul 2013
    \u2014 11:56am: \"you'll need to point out what you think is wrong with the current
    system\"\r\nJamesM 5 Jul 2013 \u2014 8:59am: \"Or convince the general public
    to start using the new system, which seems extremely unlikely.\"\r\n\r\nSometimes
    people want the problem instead of the solution. I have more to say about this,
    but I think this post is long enough for now. Let me say that I would intend it
    to be used initially for teaching non-native students for second language acquisition,
    because they do not already know how to pronounce the words, and the old spelling
    does not help them. The new reformed system is analogous to providing pointing
    of vowels in Hebrew or Arabic for learners who do not know the language well enough
    yet as speakers. Similar aids should be almost as necessary for learners of English,
    so that they would not need to carry a dictionary of pronunciations around with
    themselves wherever they go in order to read. Writing is a different matter."
  created: '2013-07-06 00:38:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Let me say that I would intend it to be used initially for teaching non-native
    students for second language acquisition, because they do not already know how
    to pronounce the words, and the old spelling does not help them.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is also the case for native speakers learning to read and write, so the sorry
    history of the Initial Teaching Alphabet should at least give you pause. I know
    people who learned to read and write using that system, in its brief experimental
    heyday: the transition to standard orthography was always problematic."
  created: '2013-07-06 03:07:18'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: This is very interesting. It reminds me of a replacement cypher I designed
    when I was a teenager. However, all of this is irrelevant because texting is much
    more effective in it's reformation of spelling in the English language, than anything
    that could be proposed here. It is becoming mainstream at an alarming rate of
    increase.
  created: '2013-07-06 15:15:21'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I could mention I have my own scheme, described on [[http://www.quadibloc.com/other/phonint.htm|this
    page]]; basically, it uses an idea proposed by Mont Follick, except that instead
    of using the apostrophe to mark where two letters don't form a dipthong, I use
    the period, on the basis that apostrophes already apppear in the middle of words
    for contractions, but periods don't, so this avoids confusion.\r\n\r\nDipthongs
    are used to avoid the need for new characters. So people can reform their spelling
    right away, without spending money on new fonts, and (well, back in the old days)
    new typewriters, new matrix-cases, new Selectric golfballs, new phototypesetter
    negatives. (I'm using \"dipthong\" in an inexact way, to mean any multiple-letter
    combination that stands for a sound, so I'm including consonant combinations like
    th and ng, not just the ones for vowel sounds.)"
  created: '2013-07-06 18:01:38'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I still cannot really figure out what your diagram is supposed to represent.
    As mentioned in my previous post, you really require some sort of accompanying
    explanation. Are the rows and columns in your table intended to be meaningful
    (in which case they should have labels), or is this simply a list arranged in
    this fashion for considerations of space?\r\n\r\nTrying to figure out your intention
    on my own is hampered by the fact that it is difficult (at least for me) to try
    to relate the three tables to one another when I am forced to mentally rotate
    two of them in order to match up cells in the three tables. It would be considerably
    easier if you simply presented a single (upright) table in which each cell contained
    three elements, or better yet a simple list of all of your symbols along with
    their intended phonetic values.\r\n\r\nAlso, you need to provide examples of actual
    words written in your proposed system.\r\n\r\n<cite> Now, the voiced velar fricative
    /\u0263/ may not be pronounced as such in the English language, but it can occur
    in words imported from foreign languages, such as the Irish Gaelic language. Consider
    the word \"ogham\". If there be no letter to represent it in spelling, then there
    would be a very high likelihood that the phoneme would lose its original pronunciation.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    seems like a very strange design consideration for me. The word 'ogham' at one
    time contained a \u0263 in Irish, but it doesn't contain one in modern Irish,
    and it certainly doesn't contain one in English. Since there is no English phoneme
    /\u0263/ it *can't* lose it's pronunciation. If you want to indicate how the word
    is pronounced in the source language from which it was borrowed (or in this case
    how it was originally pronounced in that language) then you are abandoning any
    pretext of creating a phonemic system.\r\n\r\nMoreover, if you plan on applying
    this principle more generally, you're going to need a hell of a lot more symbols
    in your alphabet. How, for example, is one going to spell a word like 'ocelot'
    without some symbol to represent the voiceless lateralized alveolar affricate?
    (the Nahua word from which this is derived is pronounced /\u014D\u02C8t\u02E2\u0113l\u014Dt\u035C\u026C/.)
    Words of Indian origin would require the addition of symbols for retroflex and
    breathy-voiced consonants, we'd need tonal marks for words of chinese origin,
    etc. etc. etc. Why single out the particular cases of x and \u0263?\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2013-07-06 18:44:47'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I just noticed from your profile that you're located in Dublin. Was this
    a system which you had originally designed with Irish in mind? That might help
    explain some of the weird correspondences which had me really thrown off in trying
    to interpret your charts (for instance, I was perplexed by the fact that you have
    orthographic M and B corresponding to [v] which makes some sense for Irish but
    certainly not for English).\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2013-07-06 19:12:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John Q:<em>I'm using \"dipthong\" in an inexact way, to mean any multiple-letter
    combination that stands for a sound, so I'm including consonant combinations like
    th and ng, not just the ones for vowel sounds.</em>\r\n\r\nI presume you mean
    diphthong, not dipthong. But in any case the word you want for combinations such
    as th and ng is digraph."
  created: '2013-07-07 00:58:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: A digraph is any arbitrary pair of letters; I want to note that the two letters
    are being used to indicate a single sound.
  created: '2013-07-07 13:21:21'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I've never seen 'digraph' used to represent any arbitrary pair of letters
    -- only to pairs which are interpreted as a unit. John Hudson's usage is definitely
    the standard one.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-07 17:09:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually \"digraph\", \"trigraph\", etc. are used to mean arbitrary letter
    sequences in linguistic frequency analysis.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-07 17:11:56'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "The arbitrary letter sequence is \u2018digram\u2019 (or \u2018bigram\u2019),
    I think."
  created: '2013-07-07 18:53:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Although I've seen 'digram' used as a synonym for digraph, I've never seen
    the latter defined as anything other than a pair of letters representing a single
    phoneme. The term bigram is used in cognitive psychology to refer to arbitrary
    pairs of letters, but digraph is a standard term in orthographic description for
    exactly what you describe, along with trigraph etc. all the way up to hexagraph
    (I know of only one, in an Irish dialect).\r\n\r\nBy the way, even if digraph
    were not the appropriate term for two letters indicating a single sound, diphthong
    most definitely is not. A diphthong is a gliding vowel: not one sound but two
    sounds, made by movement of the tongue during pronunciation of a syllable (the
    Greek word <em>diphthongos</em> actually means 'two sounds'). Crucially, a diphthong
    is a linguistic phenomenon, not necessarily an orthographic one, i.e. a spelling
    system may or may not record diphthongs distinctly from single vowels. In English
    spelling, diphthongs are most often indicated by following consonants: hIGHwAY,
    cOWbOY."
  created: '2013-07-07 19:12:01'
- author:
    name: jcrippen
    picture: 113884
  body: "That\u2019s right. Bigram = 2 arbitrary written units taken together, usually
    for statistical reasons. This term is used in computational linguistics, psycholinguistics,
    and related areas of research. Digraph = 2 written units used together to represent
    a single phoneme. This term is used in the discussion of orthography and writing
    systems. There\u2019s also the graph vs. grapheme distinction (cf. phone/sound
    vs. phoneme) which overlaps this. A graph is any unit of writing, a grapheme is
    a unit of writing that is meaningful in a particular writing system or orthography.
    So &lt;ch&gt; is made of up two graphs &lt;c&gt; and &lt;h&gt;, each of which
    is an independent grapheme in English, but together they are also a distinct grapheme
    that happens to be a digraph. The mapping from grapheme to phoneme is not one-to-one,
    so that &lt;ch&gt; can be /t\u0283/ as in &lt;church&gt; /t\u0283\u025Dt\u0283/,
    /\u0283/ as in &lt;sachet&gt; /s\xE6\u0283ei\u032F/, or even /x/ as in &lt;loch&gt;
    /l\u0254x/.\r\n\r\nA diphthong most generally is any pair of vowels that occur
    in a single syllable. So /ai\u032F/ in \u2018bite\u2019 /bai\u032Ft/ is a diphthong,
    as is /ei\u032F/ in \u2018bait\u2019 /bei\u032Ft/, /ou\u032F/ in \u2018boat\u2019
    /bou\u032Ft/, /au\u032F/ in \u2018bout\u2019 /bau\u032Ft/, and so forth. (The
    inverted breve below means that the vowel is not syllabic.) In \u2018sighing\u2019
    /sai\u032F.\u026A\u014B/ the /ai\u032F/ is a diphthong but the /\u026A/ is in
    the second syllable and is a monophthong, a lone vowel. Notice the mismatch here
    between orthography and phonology, so the &lt;igh&gt; in \u2018sigh\u2019 represents
    the diphthong /ai\u032F/ even though &lt;gh&gt; looks like it should be a consonant.
    Likewise in \u2018bite\u2019 the &lt;i&gt; represents /ai\u032F/, but here only
    with the &lt;e&gt; <em>after</em> the following consonant: &lt;iCe&gt; = /ai\u032FC/
    (where C is any consonant). Without that final &lt;e&gt; you get /\u026A/ instead,
    as in \u2018bit\u2019 /b\u026At/."
  created: '2013-07-08 08:13:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks for the excellent explanation and examples, James.
  created: '2013-07-08 18:58:36'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "John Hudson 5 Jul 2013 \u2014 7:07pm: \"the sorry history of the Initial
    Teaching Alphabet should at least give you pause. I know people who learned to
    read and write using that system, in its brief experimental heyday: the transition
    to standard orthography was always problematic.\"\r\n\r\nAs far as I recall, I
    first read about the Initial Teaching Alphabet from a book about the year 2005
    or 2006, where the impression given to me was that it had promoted an encouraging
    enhanced rate of progress for pupils from the early stages of learning to read
    compared to traditional spelling. This reported outcome as the interpretation
    of the experimental evidence suggested to me a glimmer of hope for spelling reform.
    Clearly there is an opportunity to learn from this experience.\r\n\r\nOn the other
    hand, I value that you inform us of the observations of the participants of these
    studies, as a contribution of objective evidence whose emphasis may not have been
    consulted for the academic or scholarly publications (Researchers overlook the
    fact that their subjects can have better insights into the data). But I find this
    intriguing for a number of reasons. For the people you have encountered who were
    involved in this project, could it be clarified when you say \"the transition
    to standard orthography was always problematic\" whether this attitude was from
    a feeling of unpleasantness when compelled to replace a more predictable orthography
    by a more irregular one, and whether these opinions were measured by an actual
    delay in competency of literacy, and whether the end result was more or less favourable.
    You see, sometimes faster development can be induced by more challenging conditions.
    For example, the Japanese do not seem to allow themselves to be hampered by their
    very intricate system of writing. Or could it be that it is the flexibility of
    their minds that is willing to tolerate it, and hence how it has endured? However,
    I understand that education prolonged for a number of years is required for such
    complex writing. In turn, I worry that our education is impeded by too much time
    being spent trying to teach spelling, where more time could be devoted to other
    subjects such as mathematics instead. May I ask, is it that you have come into
    contact with people exposed to this trial because of mutually living near a location
    in which it was conducted, or is it that those who had been taught to read by
    the Initial Teaching Alphabet had a higher probability of being drawn to typography
    in later life?\r\n\r\nIn any case, extrapolating the final outcome rather than
    the earlier advances of the Initial Teaching Alphabet to the system that I am
    proposing is probably not appropriate. According to how I understand it, an aspect
    of the Initial Teaching Alphabet included alterations to the permutations of letters
    within words, particularly of the silent vowel letter <e> as an indicator of long
    or tense vowels. In contrast, in the system of reform for spelling that I propose,
    there are no changes to the permutations or order of letters in any words, and
    moreover, no letter is added or removed, such that all words maintain the same
    number of letters. If it was the transition to a different arrangement of the
    letters in spelling that caused problems for moving beyond the Initial Teaching
    Alphabet, then reasonably these problems are likely to be absent from the system
    that I propose. All the while, we can expect my system to exhibit the advantage
    of the original more rapid development in literacy that the Initial Teaching Alphabet
    was found to impart, because presumably the reason for this enhanced progress
    was owing to its better correspondence of sign to sound.\r\n\r\n.quadibloc 6 Jul
    2013 \u2014 10:01am: \"I have my own scheme, [...] instead of using the apostrophe
    to mark where two letters don't form a dipthong [sic], I use the period\"\r\n\r\nInteresting
    concept. In my system, a centrally placed dot, which can optionally be shaped
    somewhat like a tiny asterisk, is used as a syllable marker.\r\n\r\n.agisaak 6
    Jul 2013 \u2014 10:44am: \"it is difficult [...] when I am forced to mentally
    rotate two of them in order to match up cells in the three tables. \"\r\n\r\nAdmittedly,
    I have been realising that it would have been more sensible for me to have not
    arranged the tables in such a way that they appear to be almost upside-down. The
    opposing orientation, achieved by rotating the tables by a half turn, would have
    been more logical. But the same information is conveyed nonetheless. A certain
    amount of obscurity can be a useful deterrent, without obfuscating that fact that
    the knowledge is there in plain view.\r\n\r\n\"Also, you need to provide examples
    of actual words written in your proposed system.\"\r\n\r\nI agree that actions
    would speak louder than words, and am almost regretful that I have resorted to
    so much explanation. Something on my wish list would be a really nice compact
    pangram. In principle, one could be devised with the help of an anagram generator,
    if it could use a specially-made dictionary of the vocabulary of the English language
    expressed correctly in the characters of the system of reform for spelling that
    I am proposing.\r\n\r\n\"Since there is no English phoneme /\u0263/ it *can't*
    lose it's pronunciation.\"\r\n\r\nEnglish used to contain a sound similar to [\u0263]
    and had a letter for it called \"yogh\", but the letter was removed from the Olde
    English alphabet, and it is difficult to say whether that was due to increased
    Latinization, or whether the sound had already disappeared, since we have no voice
    recordings from that time.\r\n\r\n\"How, for example, is one going to spell a
    word like 'ocelot' without some symbol to represent the voiceless lateralized
    alveolar affricate?\"\r\n\r\nI hadn't heard of this word until you mentioned it.
    It would not be difficult to display the original pronunciation of the voiceless
    lateralized alveolar fricative, by using the character of the eighth column and
    tenth row of the middle table in combination with a lateralization diacritic.
    But the damage has already been done, and it is now pronounced as the unvoiced
    alveolar sibilant. So, to spell the word using the Anglicized pronunciation, use
    the symbol of the tenth column and fifth row of the middle table. But I think
    that you will find that if it is spelt (spelled) according to how it was originally
    pronounced, then people will start to pronounce it correctly (though maybe not
    the lateralization bit, being too unfamiliar), thereby proving my argument that
    the correct pronunciation would not be lost if a means of representing it is available.
    For such rare words, people obtain their pronunciations from the written spelling
    rather than from oral communication. So for them, all you need to change their
    pronunciation is to change their spelling.\r\n\r\n\"Words of Indian origin would
    require the addition of symbols for retroflex and breathy-voiced consonants\"\r\n\r\nThere
    is another system of writing that I have that has symbols and procedures for representing
    such things and others.\r\n\r\n\"we'd need tonal marks for words of chinese origin\"\r\n\r\nThere
    is nothing in my proposal preventing tonal marks. I do not consider tones to be
    phonemes. Phonemes are supposed to be proper segments, but tones typically change
    across a segment. It is from this same reason that diphthongs are not phonemes.
    Tones have to be considered to be suprasegmental, or occupying another tier of
    a featural hierarchy. Tones can be indicated by diacritics, just as they are in
    Pinyin.\r\n\r\n\"Why single out the particular cases of x and \u0263\"\r\n\r\nThe
    phoneme /x/ is included as one of the sounds of English according to the Chambers
    dictionary that I access, which in my opinion is a much better English dictionary
    than others I have seen. If you are arguing against me, you are also arguing against
    the reputable Chambers dictionary. That leaves only the case of the single phoneme
    /\u0263/. Are you going to try to undermine the predominantly phonemic basis of
    the system in the right hand table just because of a dispute about whether this
    one is a phoneme? At this point I point out that the sound in the fifth column
    and second row of the right hand table probably should be unvoiced rather than
    voiced. Its character in the middle table was the last to be assigned.\r\n\r\n\"you
    are abandoning any pretext of creating a phonemic system.\"\r\n\r\nI never said
    this was a pretext to the exclusion of other considerations such as etymology
    and dialectal compatibility. I just wrote, by way of a clarifying explanation:\r\n\r\n5
    Jul 2013 \u2014 3:45am: \"I emphasize that my spelling reform is phonemic more
    than phonetic to the degree of allophonic.\"\r\n\r\nThat it is phonemic more than
    phonetic does not mean that it has to be completely phonemic. Anyway, the middle
    table, which is the actualization of the spelling reform, is not supposed to be
    phonemic, and the way I have portrayed the right hand table is not phonemic. I
    avoided showing any phonemic system that I have for at least these reasons:\r\n1.
    If I had used a phonemic system, nobody would have understood it, without it receiving
    an explanation in itself. It would be silly to explain something by Spanish if
    the audience only understands English.\r\n2. The phonemes can be conveyed by aggregations
    of symbols from the International Phonetic Alphabet that is known to linguists.
    Therefore, I used the International Phonetic Alphabet. \r\n3. Some people would
    attempt to implement the phonemic system instead of the system in the middle table.
    A case in point:\r\n\r\n.quadibloc 6 Jul 2013 \u2014 10:01am: \"avoid the need
    for new characters. So people can reform their spelling right away\"\r\n\r\nHowever,
    to do so would be destructive to our heritage of literature. It is necessary for
    any proposed reform to be backwards and forwards compatible, as mine is. I think
    this is what was meant by:\r\n\r\n.John Hudson 4 Jul 2013 \u2014 3:55pm: \"misguided
    ways, to 'simplify' English spelling.\"\r\n\r\nNevertheless, by means of the right
    hand table, the system in the middle table can be converted to a phonemic system
    by a programmable procedure.\r\n\r\nI have prepared a scan of the other single
    table that I discussed on 5 Jul 2013 \u2014 4:38pm, but have yet to upload it.
    I have a general question about file format relevant to future posts as well.
    I am not sure whether Typophile can accept PDF format. It would seem to make sense
    to me for efficiency of file size to use PDF file format for documents containing
    a mixture of images and font text, so that the text can be viewed crisply at high
    resolution magnification, instead of posting the whole as an image, where much
    memory would be wasted on white space. I am aware of the guidelines at http://typophile.com/filter/tips
    and http://typophile.com/readme.\r\n\r\nThe phonetic symbol in the sixth column
    and [edit] ninth row of the right hand table should be j instead of i, but this
    does not matter from the phonemic rather than phonetic point of view, because
    although I recognize them to be phonemically contrastive, in my phonemic system
    they can be represented by the same phoneme when syllable boundaries are shown.\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-08 22:33:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>whether this attitude was from a feeling of unpleasantness when compelled
    to replace a more predictable orthography by a more irregular one, and whether
    these opinions were measured by an actual delay in competency of literacy</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    latter. The success of ITA in getting children reading and writing <em>in that
    system</em> at an accelerated rate (compared to children starting with standard
    English spelling) was clearly significant, but eventually the children who were
    part of the ITA experiment needed to be assimilated into regular classrooms and
    typical language teaching in the standard orthography. The person whom I know
    best who went through this experience reported difficulty learning standard spelling.
    It isn't hard to imagine a better managed transition process, one which took the
    move from ITA to standard orthography as a separate stage to be properly studied
    and refined. In the event, ITA kids were simply dumped into regular classrooms,
    usually under teachers who had neither time nor inclination to give them special
    help. I reckon the progress of a typical ITA kid could be graphed as a rapid initial
    acceleration, followed by significant slowing, eventually ending up behind the
    group in standard orthography literacy."
  created: '2013-07-09 00:40:15'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@dudefellow:\r\n<cite>In turn, I worry that our education is impeded by too
    much time being spent trying to teach spelling, where more time could be devoted
    to other subjects such as mathematics instead.</cite>\r\n\r\nKnowing how to spell
    correctly and well is only important if one has to write, in addition to reading.
    And the class time spent on teaching spelling is not enough to do the job; a person
    has to actually do a lot of reading to assimilate the proper spelling of words
    as second nature.\r\n\r\nThus, an irregular spelling system has the benefit that
    it makes it harder for uneducated people to obtain jobs for which they are not
    qualified; it makes it harder to pretend you have an education that you don't
    really have. This is also why China stuck with characters for so long."
  created: '2013-07-09 02:22:12'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite> The opposing orientation, achieved by rotating the tables by a half
    turn, would have been more logical. But the same information is conveyed nonetheless.
    A certain amount of obscurity can be a useful deterrent, without obfuscating that
    fact that the knowledge is there in plain view.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy rotate them
    at all? Why not present everything in the same orientation? I don't see how you
    can view obscurity as something useful when trying to present information.\r\n\r\n<cite>Something
    on my wish list would be a really nice compact pangram. In principle, one could
    be devised with the help of an anagram generator, if it could use a specially-made
    dictionary of the vocabulary of the English language expressed correctly in the
    characters of the system of reform for spelling that I am proposing.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    really would fail to be informative. If you want to provide illustrative examples
    of your system, I'd present multiple examples illustrating your system through
    the use of *short* words, each illustrating a single usage of each letter found
    in standard English orthography. For example, for orthographic <em>u</em>, I'd
    present your revised spellings for a list of short words such as 'cut', 'put',
    'cute' etc. along with other words which would contain the same symbols in your
    revised system, such as 'boot', 'book', etc.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Since there is no
    English phoneme /\u0263/ it *can't* lose it's pronunciation.\"<cite>\r\n<cite>English
    used to contain a sound similar to [\u0263] and had a letter for it called \"yogh\",
    but the letter was removed from the Olde English alphabet, and it is difficult
    to say whether that was due to increased Latinization, or whether the sound had
    already disappeared, since we have no voice recordings from that time.</cite>\r\n\r\nMiddle
    English (not old English) <em>\u021D</em> was originally simply a graphic (insular)
    variant of <em>g</em>. It came to be used as a distinct letter primarily to distinguish
    hard [g] from palatal [j] since the distribution of these two sounds had become
    largely unpredictable following the merger of the umlauted vowel series with the
    front vowels. It's extension to [\u0263] and [w] (other 'non-hard' pronunciations
    of <em>g</em>) was fairly incidental given that these variants remained predictable.
    [\u0263] was never phonemic. Its loss was triggered by the extension of <em>y</em>
    to include those instances of [j] which were derived from /g/ as well as those
    derived from /y/). We don't need recordings to reconstruct a relatively accurate
    timeline of when these events occurred and any decent introduction to historical
    English phonology will provide that.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"How, for example, is one going
    to spell a word like 'ocelot' without some symbol to represent the voiceless lateralized
    alveolar affricate?\"</cite>\r\n<cite> I hadn't heard of this word until you mentioned
    it.</cite>\r\n\r\nStrange. Its a fairly common word, though perhaps I'm displaying
    a North American bias here since AFAIK they aren't found in europe (apart from
    in zoos and as pets of Spanish artists).\r\n\r\n<cite>It would not be difficult
    to display the original pronunciation of the voiceless lateralized alveolar fricative,
    by using the character of the eighth column and tenth row of the middle table
    in combination with a lateralization diacritic. But the damage has already been
    done, and it is now pronounced as the unvoiced alveolar sibilant. </cite>\r\n\r\nNo
    damage has been done -- the English pronunciation is and always has been /\u0251s\u0259l\u0251t/.
    The original aztec pronunciation is really irrelevant to English orthography,
    just as the Irish pronunciation of 'ogham' or 'lough' is irrelevant to English.
    That was the point I was actually making.\r\n\r\nYour suggestion that you might
    have ways of representing retroflexion, breathy voice, tone, etc. makes it very
    unclear what the actual goals of your system are. You start by claiming you want
    to make a (largely) phonemic system for English, but then seem to shift to wanting
    a phonetic system which represents sounds found in the sources of borrowed words,
    which differentiates between various dialectal pronunciations, etc.\r\n\r\n<cite>For
    such rare words, people obtain their pronunciations from the written spelling
    rather than from oral communication. So for them, all you need to change their
    pronunciation is to change their spelling.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy would they want to
    change their English pronunciation? What's wrong with the one they're using now?\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    do not consider tones to be phonemes. Phonemes are supposed to be proper segments,
    but tones typically change across a segment. It is from this same reason that
    diphthongs are not phonemes.</cite>\r\n\r\nDiphthongs most certainly are phonemic.
    In English there are four phonemic diphthongs (/aj/, /aw/, /\u0254j/, and  /ju/)
    -- these behave as single units with respect to the phonotactics of English and
    thus must be treated as such (the treatment of tones is more complex, since tones
    behave very differently in the various languages which employ them and their representation
    will be different for (e.g.) Sinitic and African languages).\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    phoneme /x/ is included as one of the sounds of English according to the Chambers
    dictionary that I access, which in my opinion is a much better English dictionary
    than others I have seen. If you are arguing against me, you are also arguing against
    the reputable Chambers dictionary.</cite>\r\n\r\nDifferent dictionaries are based
    around different sets of principles. Chambers is very much an etymologically-oriented
    dictionary which attempts to treat both modern and archaic forms, so it is unsurprising
    that it includes representations for <em> sounds </em> found in earlier versions
    of English, but that does not mean that they are <em>phonemes</em> in modern English
    (and /x/ was never a phoneme distinct from /h/ -- whether one chooses to label
    this as /h/ or /x/ isn't particularly important, but there's no reason to introduce
    a separate symbol to treat them separately when dealing with English).\r\n\r\n<cite>That
    it is phonemic more than phonetic does not mean that it has to be completely phonemic.
    Anyway, the middle table, which is the actualization of the spelling reform, is
    not supposed to be phonemic, and the way I have portrayed the right hand table
    is not phonemic. I avoided showing any phonemic system that I have for at least
    these reasons:</cite>\r\n<cite>1. If I had used a phonemic system, nobody would
    have understood it, without it receiving an explanation in itself. It would be
    silly to explain something by Spanish if the audience only understands English.<cite>\r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    your current table is also fairly difficult to understand. It doesn't really matter
    what type of system you envision; an explanation is still required.\r\n\r\nIn
    an earlier post, I suggested you needed to outline what you thought the problems
    with modern English spelling are before presenting your own system, to which you
    responded simply: <cite>Sometimes people want the problem instead of the solution.</cite>
    Let me clarify that the reason I feel you need to answer this question is that
    it will help establish exactly what you think the desirable features of a writing
    system ought to be, and thus what principles your own system is guided by. In
    your presentation thus far the latter is particular unclear since you seem to
    vacillate between wanting to represent phonemics, phonetics, etymology, dialect
    variation and also claim to be motivated by ease of teaching. Without you actually
    enumerating your goals (and presenting the system itself more clearly) it is difficult
    to evaluate how well you achieve these goals.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2013-07-09 07:06:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@agisaak:\r\n<cite>How, for example, is one going to spell a word like 'ocelot'
    without some symbol to represent the voiceless lateralized alveolar affricate?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    in my system, it would be spelled 'oselot'. A simplified spelling system is intended
    to avoid the problems introduced by the etymological spelling of Ben Johnson,
    and so sounds not used by ordinary English speakers would not be represented."
  created: '2013-07-09 12:21:05'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "Old English is Anglo-Saxon, but by Olde English I meant Middle English.\r\n\r\nagisaak
    8 Jul 2013 \u2014 11:06pm: \"extension to [\u0263] and [w] (other 'non-hard' pronunciations
    of g) was fairly incidental given that these variants remained predictable. [\u0263]
    was never phonemic.\"\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that [\u0263] and [x] represent the
    same phoneme in Middle English. In Old English there is the word \"\xFEurh\" meaning
    \"through\", where the letter \"h\" represents /x/. This word was spelt \"\xFEur\u021D\"
    in Middle English.\r\n\r\n\"Diphthongs most certainly are phonemic. In English
    there are four phonemic diphthongs (/aj/, /aw/, /\u0254j/, and /ju/) -- these
    behave as single units\"\r\n\r\nI disagree. Phonologically the diphthongs in English
    do not behave as single units. This is made evident when they become rhotacized,
    so that the initial part of the diphthong becomes the same phonemically as another
    unrhotacized monophthong.  /ju/ is a combination of a non-syllabic approximant
    or glide semi-consonantal onset followed by a monophthongal syllabic nucleus.
    The other diphthongs are syllabic vowel nuclei followed by non-syllabic semi-consonantal
    codas. This theory that I devised simplifies the phonological rules for English."
  created: '2013-07-09 17:48:17'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite>It seems to me that [\u0263] and [x] represent the same phoneme in
    Middle English. In Old English there is the word \"\xFEurh\" meaning \"through\",
    where the letter \"h\" represents /x/. This word was spelt \"\xFEur\u021D\" in
    Middle English.</cite>\r\n\r\nYogh was also used to represent [x], but /h/ and
    /g/ remained distinct phonemes. Orthography does not always reflect phonology.\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    disagree. Phonologically the diphthongs in English do not behave as single units.
    This is made evident when they become rhotacized, so that the initial part of
    the diphthong becomes the same phonemically as another unrhotacized monophthong.
    /ju/ is a combination of a non-syllabic approximant or glide semi-consonantal
    onset followed by a monophthongal syllabic nucleus. The other diphthongs are syllabic
    vowel nuclei followed by non-syllabic semi-consonantal codas. This theory that
    I devised simplifies the phonological rules for English.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou'd have
    to give an example of the rhoticization which you have in mind.\r\n\r\nIf you
    treat the diphthongs as sequences rather than units, the phonotactic description
    of English becomes unnecessarily complicated. For example, English normally bars
    /j/ from occuring in onsets following plosives. We don't get words like *kyat
    or *pyot. We do however, get words like /pjur/ 'pure', /kjut/ 'cute', and (for
    many dialects) /tjun/ 'tune'. Similar issues arise with respect to syllable codas.
    If we treat diphthongs as vocalic units, we can simply rule out CjV and VjC combinations,
    whereas if we treat them as sequences the phonotactic restrictions turn into a
    rather complex mess in which specific pairings must be treated as exceptional
    (and where the exceptions themselves make little sense in terms of the sonority
    scales which normally govern phonotactic restrictions).\r\n\r\n/aw/, /aj/ and
    /oj/ are pretty much universally treated as phonemic diphthongs. There's less
    consistency with /ju/ since it exhibits some conflicting properties (initial ju
    behaves as a sequence (it's <em>a eulogy</em> rather than <em>*an euology</em>)
    whereas medial ju does not)."
  created: '2013-07-09 20:04:09'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "agisaak 9 Jul 2013 \u2014 12:04pm: \"the sonority scales which normally govern
    phonotactic restrictions\"\r\n\r\nSo I am not the only one who knew this...\r\n\r\n\"You'd
    have to give an example of the rhoticization which you have in mind.\"\r\n\r\nConsider
    these examples and try to explain them:\r\n1. Ireland;\r\n2. Our.\r\n\r\n\"If
    we treat diphthongs as vocalic units, we can simply rule out CjV and VjC combinations\"\r\n\r\nWhat
    about:\r\n1. Fjord;\r\n2. \"New Orleans\" pronounced with the colloquial dialect;\r\n3.
    There is a certain informal and casual or slang word that I have not seen written
    but only heard, and which is a neologistic portmanteau of \"yeah\"  and \"no\"
    used to mean an apathetic, disaffected or indifferent combination of their meanings,
    pronounced like [nj\u025B]. Perhaps we could spell it as \"nyeah\".\r\n\r\n\"Yogh
    was also used to represent [x], but /h/ and /g/ remained distinct phonemes.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    issue was not whether /h/ and /g/ remained distinct phonemes, but whether [x]
    and [\u0263] were allophones of the same phoneme /x/. Are you accepting that different
    phonemes can have the same sound sometimes?\r\n\r\n.agisaak 8 Jul 2013 \u2014
    11:06pm: \"Its loss was triggered by the extension of y to include those instances
    of [j] which were derived from /g/ as well as those derived from /y/). We don't
    need recordings to reconstruct a relatively accurate timeline of when these events
    occurred\"\r\n\r\nSince you know so much about it, perhaps you can tell us then:
    \r\n1. When the letter yogh was lost; \r\n2. When the sound [\u0263] was lost;
    \r\n3. When the sound at the end of the word \"cough\" became an unvoiced labiodental
    fricative. \r\nSome examples of dated evidence, such as rhymes in Middle English
    verse, illustrating these phenomena would support your argument. Those for whom
    the entire corpus is not sufficiently well-known and who do not specialize in
    historical linguistics have to take your word for it.\r\n\r\n\"/x/ was never a
    phoneme distinct from /h/\"\r\n\r\nHow do you explain the contrasts of these words:\r\nHigh;
    \r\nChi (the letter of the Greek alphabet, as in Chi-squared distribution); \r\nKey;
    \r\nHe\r\n?"
  created: '2013-07-10 16:18:14'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite>Consider these examples and try to explain them:</cite>\r\n<cite>1.
    Ireland;</cite>\r\n<cite>2. Our.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat exactly am I trying to explain
    here? What specific pronunciations did you have in mind?\r\n\r\n<cite>1. Fjord;</cite>\r\n<cite>3.
    There is a certain informal and casual or slang word that I have not seen written
    but only heard, and which is a neologistic portmanteau of \"yeah\" and \"no\"
    used to mean an apathetic, disaffected or indifferent combination of their meanings,
    pronounced like [nj\u025B]. Perhaps we could spell it as \"nyeah\".</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    first is a borrowing and the second is an example of expressive vocabulary, neither
    of which should be used in phonological argumentation since they tend to violate
    normal English patterns.\r\n\r\n<cite>2. \"New Orleans\" pronounced with the colloquial
    dialect;</cite>\r\n\r\nAgain, I don't know what specific pronunciation you have
    in mind, but I can't offhand think of any which might be problematic. The only
    place where [j] might occur in this word that I can think of would be in /nju/
    which is perfectly consistent with what I wrote in my previous post.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    issue was not whether /h/ and /g/ remained distinct phonemes, but whether [x]
    and [\u0263] were allophones of the same phoneme /x/. Are you accepting that different
    phonemes can have the same sound sometimes?</cite>\r\n\r\nSure, phonemes frequently
    undergo contextual neutralization, but in this particular case it was simply an
    instance of the same orthographic symbol being used to represent either coda /h/
    (pronounced [x]) or coda /g/ (pronounced in a variety of ways depending on the
    preceeding sound, but not as [x]).\r\n\r\n<cite>Since you know so much about it,
    perhaps you can tell us then:</cite>\r\n<cite>1. When the letter yogh was lost;</cite>\r\n\r\nYogh
    became increasingly less frequent (being replaced by gh in all of its secondary
    (i.e. non-[j]) uses) throughout the middle English period and is normally considered
    to have died out by the end of the Middle English period, though one still finds
    the occasional instance in Early Modern English. There's no specific time when
    it was lost.\r\n\r\n<cite>2. When the sound [\u0263] was lost;</cite>\r\n<cite>3.
    When the sound at the end of the word \"cough\" became an unvoiced labiodental
    fricative.\r\nSome examples of dated evidence, such as rhymes in Middle English
    verse, illustrating these phenomena would support your argument. Those for whom
    the entire corpus is not sufficiently well-known and who do not specialize in
    historical linguistics have to take your word for it.</cite>\r\n\r\nJune 24th,
    1509.\r\n\r\nSeriously, though, the changes involving coda consonants in English
    involve a large number of interacting processes which occurred through the Middle
    English period and into Early Modern English, each of which must be justified
    using a large number of converging sources of evidence (none of which have any
    bearing on your proposed spelling reform). If you are interested in this topic,
    a good introduction to the history of English would be Baugh and Cable's <em>A
    History of the English Language</em> (afaik the most recent edition is the 6th
    from 2012). Another good introduction would be Celia Milward's <em>Biography of
    the English Language</em> (my copy is from 1996 but I believe there are more recent
    editions). The former contains more examples, whereas the latter is somewhat more
    readable.\r\n\r\n<cite>How do you explain the contrasts of these words:</cite>\r\n<cite>High;</cite>\r\n<cite>Chi
    (the letter of the Greek alphabet, as in Chi-squared distribution);</cite>\r\n<cite>Key;</cite>\r\n<cite>He</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    my dialect, the above words are pronounced [ha:j], [k\u02B0a:j], [k\u02B2\u02B0i:]
    ~ [c\u02B0i:] (probably intermediate between the two), and [\xE7i:], respectively.
    Again, I fail to see what requires explanation.\r\n\r\nMore importantly, though,
    variant pronunciations triggered by adjacent vowels aren't the sort of thing which
    should play any role in orthography, so I don't see how these examples are supposed
    to clarify anything about your proposed system."
  created: '2013-07-11 04:48:17'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "agisaak 10 Jul 2013 \u2014 8:48pm: \"What exactly am I trying to explain
    here? What specific pronunciations did you have in mind?\"\r\n\r\nYou can describe
    a pronunciation of your choosing, and then, if you wish, leave the explaining
    to me.\r\n\r\n\"Again, I don't know what specific pronunciation you have in mind\"\r\nI
    was hoping you would recognize that I meant one of the contracted versions by
    apocope in which \"New Orleans\" has only two syllables. Perhaps natives, preferably
    some who have no understanding of our debate, of that place would illuminate us.\r\n\r\n\"June
    24th, 1509.\"\r\nA date range would have been more credible, but if you provide
    a date, it should be accompanied by the references to least some of its original
    and published source texts, which at least can be dated, since I would not want
    anyone to be too gullible. You discuss a time for the disappearance of the letter
    symbol \"yogh\", for which the visual evidence of only source texts is adequate,
    but you fail to provide dates as answers to the questions involving the sounds,
    although these are the questions for which audio recordings might have been useful.
    You direct the interested reader to some textbooks, but neglect to specify whether
    these contain the answers to the questions, such as in terms of date ranges, rather
    than merely the methods by which they may be obtained. If the answers are not
    in the books mentioned, you may as well tell me now so as not to waste my time.
    If the answers are in the books, you could tell us the page numbers.\r\n\r\n\"In
    my dialect, the above words are pronounced [ha:j], [k\u02B0a:j], [k\u02B2\u02B0i:]
    ~ [c\u02B0i:] (probably intermediate between the two), and [\xE7i:], respectively.
    Again, I fail to see what requires explanation.\"\r\n\r\nThe initial onset consonant
    of one of the pronunciations of \"Chi\" given in the dictionary that I consult
    (and, having heard it, I think I would have known this pronunciation without the
    dictionary) differs from that in the pronunciations for the words \"key\" and
    \"he\", while they all have the same vowel. They are different words and the differences
    are not caused by allophonic variation. Therefore, these consonants are all mutually
    contrastive phonemes. In Greek, the sound of \"chi\" was aspirated and differentiated
    by that property from the unaspirated sound indicated by the letter \"kappa\".
    In English, aspiration for plosives is only a predictable allophonic variation
    (as is indeed the palatalization that you have shown).\r\n\r\nEtymology is important
    for the design of stable systems of writing, so that they will endure to the future
    by not being as susceptible to further reforms, and so that they will preserve
    the past by allowing a greater literature to be accessible for longer periods
    of history. My system of writing addresses these concerns by maintaining existing
    permutations and numbers of letters in words, whilst at the same time allowing
    the phonemic pronunciation to be shown explicitly, so that this could be tracked
    in time without loss of literacy. This is more than our current system can achieve,
    without, as you say \"using a large number of converging sources of evidence\".
    There is more than one meaning in this that I wrote: \r\n\r\n8 Jul 2013 \u2014
    2:21pm: \"It is necessary for any proposed reform to be backwards and forwards
    compatible, as mine is.\""
  created: '2013-07-11 22:22:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>\"June 24th, 1509.\"\r\nA date range would have been more credible...</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    would a sense of humour.\r\n\r\n<em>Seriously, though...</em>"
  created: '2013-07-11 23:39:37'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite> You can describe a pronunciation of your choosing, and then, if you
    wish, leave the explaining to me.</cite>\r\n\r\nI pronounce 'Ireland' as [aj\u0279\u0329ln\u0329d]
    and for me 'our' is homophonous with 'are', both being pronounced as [a\u02D0\u0279].\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    was hoping you would recognize that I meant one of the contracted versions by
    apocope in which \"New Orleans\" has only two syllables. Perhaps natives, preferably
    some who have no understanding of our debate, of that place would illuminate us.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    mean [n(\u0259)w\u0254\u0259\u032Fln\u0329z]? There's no [j] in that pronunciation.\r\n\r\nAs
    for 'chi', if the pronunciation you have in mind is [xi\u02D0] or [\u03C7i\u02D0],
    then these represent attempts on the part of English speakers to imitate the Greek
    pronunciation; they cannot be used as evidence for contrasts in English.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want to describe a phonological system for English, you need to first specify
    which variety of English you are concerned with, and only examples from that particular
    variety of English can be used in your argumentation. One major reason why different
    dialects of English exhibit differences in pronunciation is because they do not
    share the same phonological system.\r\n\r\n<cite>You direct the interested reader
    to some textbooks, but neglect to specify whether these contain the answers to
    the questions, such as in terms of date ranges, rather than merely the methods
    by which they may be obtained. If the answers are not in the books mentioned,
    you may as well tell me now so as not to waste my time. If the answers are in
    the books, you could tell us the page numbers.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, they both contain
    answers to the questions you ask. Otherwise I would not have referred you to them.
    I give you a reference rather than an answer because the answers are complex,
    involving multiple interacting sound changes involving coda simplification and
    vowel changes, all of which occurred over a period of time of around two centuries
    or so, and not necessarily the same period of time for all geographical locations
    in England (some are in fact still ongoing). I cannot give you a specific page
    numbers because the relevant discussion occupies a major portion of the sections
    on Late Middle English and Early Modern English phonology. However, a very simple
    answer would be that these changes were well in progress, but not entirely complete,
    by the beginning of the Great Vowel Shift (which also occurred over time and not
    simultaneously in all dialects), and would have been complete by around 1650 or
    1700 for London English. The relevant changes occurred well after yogh was no
    longer in common use, either as a representation of /x/, /j/, or any of the various
    allophones of /g/.\r\n\r\n<cite>Etymology is important for the design of stable
    systems of writing, so that they will endure to the future by not being as susceptible
    to further reforms</cite>\r\n\r\nMost of the criticisms of English spelling which
    I've seen from spelling-reform advocates stem from the fact that English spelling
    <em>does</em> preserve etymological information, so I fail to see how incorporating
    this will make it resistant to further reforms. Of course, you still haven't explained
    what you think is wrong with current English spelling despite having been asked.\r\n\r\n<cite>My
    system of writing addresses these concerns by maintaining existing permutations
    and numbers of letters in words</cite>\r\n\r\nIn other words, your simpler, 'easier
    to learn' system requires that people be well versed in standard English spelling
    before they can even attempt to learn your system. That is definitely a unique
    feature of proposed spelling reforms.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2013-07-12 16:35:42'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "agisaak \r\n12 Jul 2013 \u2014 8:35am\r\n\"I pronounce 'Ireland' as [aj\u0279\u0329ln\u0329d]
    and for me 'our' is homophonous with 'are', both being pronounced as [a\u02D0\u0279].\"\r\n\r\nFor
    me, \"our\" and \"are\" are also homophonous, but their vowels are monophthongal
    and have the same pronunciation as the first part of \"Ireland\". The pronunciation
    in this dialect is different from the typical American pronunciation that I have
    heard. We know that it is a diphthong contracted to a monophthong because of the
    following \"r\" because in the semantically related adjective \"Irish\", the initial
    letter remains diphthongal, and this is allowed because the word partitions into
    two syllables as \"I.rish\". However, the word \"Ireland\" with that diphthong
    cannot be partitioned in the same way, because to attempt to do so would create
    a phonologically impermissible consonant cluster, as in (unattested) *[ajrl.\xE6nd]
    or *[ajr.l\xE6nd] or *[aj.rl\xE6nd]. Instead, the result is forced to be more
    like [\u0251r.land] or [\u0251rl.and]. But another strategy, as manifested in
    the American dialect, is to add extra syllabicity, as you have shown for the sonorants.\r\n\r\n\"There's
    no [j] in that pronunciation.\"\r\nIt is just that I was wondering whether the
    syllables [nw\u0254] and [nj\u0254] are allowed by the phonotactic rules you advocate.\r\n\r\n\"they
    cannot be used as evidence for contrasts in English.\"\r\nIf the contrasts are
    there in English, however they got there, that is enough evidence for me.\r\n\r\n\"only
    examples from that particular variety of English can be used in your argumentation\"\r\nThere
    is an intention in the reform that I propose that many dialects will be accommodated,
    not just from the present time. You have a here-and-now outlook to phonology,
    whereas I would prefer to adopt a time-dependent and geographically encompassing
    theory of the patterns of sound arrangements. The reason for this is to encourage
    stability and depth for the spelling.\r\n\r\n\"I fail to see how incorporating
    this will make it resistant to further reforms.\"\r\nI would suspect that spelling
    reform advocates criticize etymological information not for its own sake, but
    rather because it is their way of expressing the difficulty in predicting pronunciation
    from the spelling. But in my proposal, the pronunciation is shown unambiguously.\r\n\r\n\"your
    simpler, 'easier to learn' system requires that people be well versed in standard
    English spelling before they can even attempt to learn your system. \"\r\nThe
    system allows pronunciation for reading and the language to be easier to learn,
    just as vowel pointing allows the reading of Hebrew text to be easier to learn
    for those who do not know the spoken language sufficiently. Writing, as I already
    wrote, is a different matter. The reading material for learners is to be provided
    for them, not by them.\r\n\r\nFor convenience, I have prepared paraphrases of
    my understanding of some points of our arguments from earlier. \r\n\r\n.agisaak:\r\n\r\n1.
    /\u0263/ is not a phoneme of English [5 Jul 2013 \u2014 11:56am; 6 Jul 2013 \u2014
    10:44am; 8 Jul 2013 \u2014 11:06pm].\r\n\r\n2. [\u0263] used to exist in Irish
    [6 Jul 2013 \u2014 10:44am], and in English, where it was an allophone of the
    phoneme /g/ or a sound of the letter symbol g, which could be represented by the
    letter \u021D [8 Jul 2013 \u2014 11:06pm].\r\n\r\n3. The letter \u021D could also
    represent [w] and palatal [j], both of which are allophones of the phoneme /g/
    or sounds of the letter symbol g [8 Jul 2013 \u2014 11:06pm]; and [x] [9 Jul 2013
    \u2014 12:04pm].\r\n\r\n4. Phoneme /g/ was never pronounced as [x] (codally) [10
    Jul 2013 \u2014 8:48pm].\r\n\r\n5. [x] was an allophone of the phoneme /h, x/
    [8 Jul 2013 \u2014 11:06pm] and could be represented by the letter \u021D [9 Jul
    2013 \u2014 12:04pm].\r\n\r\n6. The phoneme /x/ [I think you meant as though it
    were a distinct phoneme from /h/ and /\u0263/] occurs in only a rather small number
    of dialects [5 Jul 2013 \u2014 11:56am] [I think you meant that [x] of Modern
    English only occurs in a small number of dialects].\r\n\r\n.dudefellow:\r\n\r\n1.
    /\u0263/ may not be pronounced as such in English [5 Jul 2013 \u2014 4:38pm].\r\n\r\n2.
    /\u0263/ occurs in Irish Gaelic [5 Jul 2013 \u2014 4:38pm]; and [\u0263] used
    to exist in English, where it could be represented by the letter \"yogh\" (\u021D)
    [8 Jul 2013 \u2014 2:33pm].\r\n\r\n3. The letter \u021D might also have been used
    to represent [x] [9 Jul 2013 \u2014 9:48am].\r\n\r\n4. \"The issue was not whether
    /h/ and /g/ remained distinct phonemes\" [10 Jul 2013 \u2014 8:18am]. \r\n\r\n5.
    [x] (and speculatively [\u0263], see also 10 Jul 2013 \u2014 8:18am) is an allophone
    of the phoneme /x/, which was represented by the letter h in Old English, and
    possibly by the letter \u021D in Middle English [9 Jul 2013 \u2014 9:48am].\r\n\r\n6.
    The phoneme /x/ occurs in certain dialects [5 Jul 2013; 8 Jul 2013 \u2014 2:33pm]."
  created: '2013-07-12 18:01:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don\u2019t understand how this \u201Csymbol\u201D relates to spelling reform.\r\nPlease
    explain."
  created: '2013-07-12 18:19:44'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "Nick Shinn 12 Jul 2013 \u2014 10:19am: \"I don\u2019t understand how this
    \u201Csymbol\u201D relates to spelling reform.\"\r\n\r\nThere are many symbols.
    Which do you mean?"
  created: '2013-07-12 18:32:56'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "@Nick: I don't either. I've asked him a few questions about his system but
    he seems more interested in discussing these points than providing clarifications
    on what he has proposed.\r\n\r\n@dudefellow:\r\n\r\n<cite>It is just that I was
    wondering whether the syllables [nw\u0254] and [nj\u0254] are allowed by the phonotactic
    rules you advocate.</cite>\r\n\r\nThey're not rules which I 'advocate'; they're
    simply rules which accurately describe standard, north american English (and,
    to the best of my knowledge, RP English as well). The rules found in Southern
    US English will be different because those dialects have a different phonological
    inventory, and different phonotactics, though the handling of /ju/ isn't going
    to be any different (/aj/, on the other hand...).\r\n\r\n<cite>The phoneme /x/
    [I think you meant as though it were a distinct phoneme from /h/</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    no dialect of English (past or present) has distinguished /x/ from /h/. I apologise
    for my inconsistency above. When discussing Old English, its conventional to refer
    to that phoneme as /x/, whereas for modern English /h/ is more usual, but it's
    the same phoneme involved regardless of notation.\r\n\r\n<cite>The letter \u021D
    could also represent [w] and palatal [j], both of which are allophones of the
    phoneme /g/ or sounds of the letter symbol g</cite>\r\n\r\nNot quite. (Old) English
    *g developed into a number of different sounds including [g], [j], [w], and [\u0263].
    However, these represent historical sound changes rather than allophonic variations.
    [\u0263] and [g] were definitely allophones of /g/, but because /j/ already existed
    as an independent phoneme in English, those instance of *g which developed into
    [j] would have merged with that phoneme. There was also a phoneme /w/, but *g
    developed into [w] only in environments where that phoneme didn't normally occur,
    so that situation would be open to several different analayses."
  created: '2013-07-12 18:45:34'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "agisaak 12 Jul 2013 \u2014 10:45am:\r\n\"it's the same phoneme involved regardless
    of notation.\"\r\nI expect this to be deemed so because /x, h/ pronounced as [x]
    is thought to occur only finally in words, while [h] does not occur in that position.\r\n\r\n\"those
    instance of *g which developed into [j] would have merged with that phoneme.\"\r\nThe
    situation seems to be similar to \"hard\" and \"soft\" g in current English orthography.
    They have the same grapheme, but their pronunciation can usually be predicted
    by whether the following vowel is a front vowel, indicated in spelling by the
    letters i or e, or a back or central vowel, indicated by the letters u, o, or
    a. The \"soft\" g or affricate has the same sound as that usual for the letter
    j.\r\n\r\n\"though the handling of /ju/ isn't going to be any different (/aj/,
    on the other hand...).\"\r\nI would have similar concerns for /aw/, considering
    other pronunciations of the word \"our\" again. The notion of at least three of
    the four diphthongs you list as single units seems to be disputable, and this
    calls into question the sole remaining one.\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-12 19:11:54'
- author:
    name: dudefellow
  body: "agisaak 12 Jul 2013 \u2014 10:45am: \"However, these represent historical
    sound changes rather than allophonic variations.\"\r\nYes, I was not sure whether
    you meant allophones of a phoneme or just different sounds of the one letter grapheme,
    which is why I used the logical conjunction \"or\". But why do you write of *g
    as though it is a reconstruction? Are you discussing a phoneme or a letter grapheme
    of allographs?"
  created: '2013-07-12 19:25:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Dude, I meant the whole mystical emblem image.
  created: '2013-07-12 19:59:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Yeah, the overall presentation is a bit odd. In the 16th Century, it would
    be de rigueur to present one's philological explorifications in such manner, but
    today it all seems a bit Dungeons & Dragons.
  created: '2013-07-12 23:09:02'
date: '2013-07-04 22:53:46'
title: English Spelling Reform

---
