---
author:
  name: daverob07
body: Looking for advice on how to put the word out that we are launching a T-Shirt
  Design contest for our company.  Hoping the prize of the winning designers becoming
  partners with us in the success of their designs is an exciting opportunity.  Most
  contest sites pay only a couple of hundred dollars.  We are looking for these designers
  to benefit from each and every item sold with their design.  Also hoping some will
  eventually come and work for the company.
comments:
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: 'Skilled professionals prefer to work for money. So, keep that in mind. '
  created: '2013-07-09 02:15:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But the best ones don't deny the value of risk-taking.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-09 03:16:29'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "David, \"design contests\", also known as asking designers to work on a speculation
    basis or \"on spec\", are controversial. I won't go into the whole thing as we've
    discussed it here before, but most of your submissions will come from amateurs
    and students. A pro making a good living is unlikely to do design work for free,
    unless perhaps it's for charity or there's a huge potential payoff. \r\n\r\nA
    vague promise of profits someday or a potential job generally don't mean much.
    If you really want to hire someone, do it the regular way and post an ad, interview
    people, review their portfolios, and hire someone. Or if money is tight, hire
    freelancers to do individual jobs."
  created: '2013-07-09 04:28:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Controversial is a good way to put it. What I personally don't like hearing
    is blind, blanket condemnation (even though <em>most</em> such cases do deserve
    derision). The reason the anti-spec crusade ticks me off is it's mostly coming
    from the financial interests of large design studios (and people aspiring to that,
    often via wishful thinking); they want to keep all the money -not to mention the
    affordable labor- to themselves.\r\n\r\nAnd it's never only about money. Otherwise
    we'd all be prostitutes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-09 04:49:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" it's mostly coming from the financial interests of large design studios\"\r\n\r\nNot
    true, it is mostly coming from one-person shops who have been royally screwed."
  created: '2013-07-09 05:08:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, because the one-person studio would never had gotten the commission.\r\n\r\nSort
    of like how most cases of font piracy don't really cost a foundry anything, simply
    because the pirate wouldn't have bought the font if he couldn't get it for free.\r\n\r\nInstead
    of going fascist at something that's an inescapable part of human competitiveness
    we should help organizations refine how they handle these things.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-09 06:04:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">...we should help organizations refine how they handle these things.\r\n\r\nMan,
    when you were through with the TDC, them bastards knew damn well not to undercharge
    on the entry fee by $8  \u2014\_ever ag'in. I doubt they will forget your golden
    input. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-09 12:07:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "While individual designers and studios have advocated against spec work (e.g.
    the recent <a href=\"http://shouldiworkforfree.com\">Hische \uFB02ow chart</a>),
    the biggest impetus has come from professional organizations, e.g. the <a href=\"http://www.aiga.org/position-spec-work/\">AIGA</a>
    (USA) and <a href=\"http://www.rgdontario.com/talent/spec-work.php\">RGD</a> (Ontario,
    Canada).\r\n\r\nNick Shinn, R.G.D.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-09 18:23:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hrant, I doubt Apple will ever forget your golden input on their designs,
    either. It's been stunning and I can't help but get all choked up to see how helpful
    you've become to companies, and other organizations you detest so thoroughly.\r\n
    \r\n"
  created: '2013-07-09 19:59:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...No, because the one-person studio would never had gotten the commission.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is exactly why they are pissed off.\r\n\r\nHrant, I don't know what you base your
    opinion on.  I have been in the design business for over 50 years and what you
    are saying makes no sense.  The big fish design offices compete with each other,
    not with the struggling one-person shops.  Big design offices don't bother with
    spec work, they don't want it or need it.  The  Sharks, potential clients who
    try to lure those starving individuals from the masses to work for free, never
    approach the big guys.  Sharks bounce around from one freebate freelancer to the
    next as soon as they ask to be paid."
  created: '2013-07-09 20:41:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So emotional.\r\n\r\nOrganizations certainly don't listen to individuals,
    but sometimes enough individuals complaining about the same thing does make a
    difference. For example I think the army of people complaining about Helvetica
    Ultra Anorexic probably did help Apple go <em>two</em> weights darker in the third
    beta of iOS7. But it would probably take more humans than there are on this planet
    to get them to dump Helvetica entirely.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 04:32:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, if the way you \"communicate\" is called Berlowese, what should we
    call the way you \"listen\" to what people are actually saying, in plain language?
    BTW, I only detest certain individuals, and extremely few; corporations don't
    deserve such emotions.\r\n\r\nChris, it's pretty simple: the biggest losers from
    spec work aren't the young, up-and-coming designers whose time isn't so valuable
    yet anyway - it's the big, tight-ship, over-charging studios (that as a rule produce
    culturally lethargic work). And they don't just lose money by losing given commissions
    - every time a beginner wins a spec commission (which means he has more talent
    than average), what it would cost for a studio to hire him goes up too.\r\n\r\nIt's
    not that I want designers to be taken advantage of - quite the contrary! I simply
    believe that a berserker crusade against any and all spec work does most of us
    harm, especially culturally: no matter what your vocation, if you're only interested
    in money, I don't feel the world really needs you. Plus it really makes no sense
    to neuter natural human competitiveness - we have to properly leverage it instead.\r\n\r\nDon't
    believe the hype - think for yourself and don't be a tool for the holy cows of
    the design world.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 04:37:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hrant>Organizations certainly don't listen to individuals\r\n\r\n I know
    your posts dont count, but write right. Of course organizations listen to individuals!
    \ Organizations certainly don't do what each of those individuals say. They are,
    after all, organizations.  Are you? \r\n\r\nChris >Hrant, I don't know what you
    base your opinion on. \r\n\r\nIt's programmed: mole_hill + audience x speculation/1
    = bs mountain, from which to cockadoodledoo. An Apple Beta here, a 9 px screen
    font there, an $8 contest undercharge, an all wet t-shirt contest, a tiny barking
    spider, don't matter.\r\n\r\nWhen this happens  don't  disagree, or think for
    yourself. You must help to build the mt. :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 12:15:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You are unkind.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 15:22:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026a berserker crusade against any and all spec work does most of
    us harm</em>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s not a berserker crusade.\r\n\u201CMost of us\u201D
    would I think agree with the measured approach of education and advocacy pursued
    by our professional organizations.\r\nFor those who haven't followed the links
    I provided above, this from the RGD:\r\n\r\n<strong>Spec work and crowdsourcing
    are universally condemned by responsible design organizations around the world,
    including RGD, Icograda, Graphic Artists Guild and AIGA, as being an unethical
    business practice that is harmful to designers and clients alike.</strong>\r\n\r\nBut
    perhaps this T-shirt competition is more like FontShop asking for type designers
    to submit type designs, which the company will then pick the best of, publish,
    and return royalties? In that case, it would be acceptable professionally; for
    instance, it\u2019s considered OK for agencies to pitch accounts on spec, because
    the potential reward is a revenue stream. \r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 15:53:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A measured approach is exactly what I'm advocating, exactly what you're wisely
    engaging in, but exactly what the professional organizations are <em>not</em>
    engaging in.\r\n\r\nThe big studios -who control the professional organizations-
    are certainly not berserk; they know exactly what they're doing. But they are
    managing to drive some of their minions berserk.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 16:11:23'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> harmful to designers and clients alike\r\n\r\nYes, that's something that's
    not often talked about, but while the client may save some money in the short
    term, it's often a bad decision long term.\r\n\r\nThe first step in a design project,
    especially identity projects, generally should be research. But with most spec
    projects the design work is being done by someone who knows little about their
    company, products and services, history, competitors, future plans, etc. \r\n\r\nAnd
    some of this information \u2014 especially future plans \u2014 is not available
    via Google; you've got to actually talk to management. Without this info you're
    basically providing top-of your-head, generic ideas that may not serve them well
    long-term.\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 16:35:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The big studios (not quite sure how that is de\uFB01ned) do not control the
    professional organizations, the members do.\r\nIn the RGD, we vote on issues at
    the AGM.\r\nWe elect our board of directors from a cross-section of the industry:\r\nhttp://www.rgdontario.com/about/board-of-directors.php\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 16:45:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is exactly the sort of advice organizations considering a spec commission
    need, instead of a scarlet letter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 17:20:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: A related issue that professional bodies are now addressing is unpaid internships.
  created: '2013-07-10 21:15:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Also something that's not necessarily Evil.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-10 21:21:51'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Grilled Cheese Sandwiches.\r\n\r\nAlso something that's not necessarily Evil. "
  created: '2013-07-10 21:44:08'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "According to the U.S. Department of Labor, an intern must be paid minimum
    wage (or more) unless the following criteria are met:\r\n\r\n1. The internship
    ... is similar to training which would be given in an educational environment;\r\n2.
    The internship experience is for the benefit of the intern;\r\n3. The intern does
    not displace regular employees...;\r\n4. The employer that provides the training
    derives no immediate advantage from the activities of the intern; and on occasion
    its operations may actually be impeded;\r\n5. The intern is not necessarily entitled
    to a job at the conclusion of the internship; and\r\n6. The employer and the intern
    understand that the intern is not entitled to wages for the time spent in the
    internship.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dol.gov/whd/regs/compliance/whdfs71.pdf\r\n\r\nOne
    of the most valuable experiences of my career was an internship (paid) in the
    design department of a corporation. Although I did useful work for them, the department
    manager viewed it as an education experience for me and would have me attend meetings,
    visit suppliers, etc even though I served no useful purpose at those, it was just
    so I could observe and learn.\r\n\r\nBut over the years at other places I've also
    seen interns given tasks like buying donuts, running errands, getting the manager's
    car washed, etc. Zero educational value.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-11 00:40:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, are you an active member of any graphic design organisations? Or are
    you, indeed, actively involved in the graphic design business at all? I ask, not
    to be unkind, but simply because you don't seem to show much understanding of
    how that business and its professional organisations operate. The sheer number
    of freelancers in the graphic design field make the notion that 'large design
    studios' -- who? -- control the professional associations unrealistic.\r\n\r\nAs
    Nick -- someone who is active in graphic design organisations -- points out, there
    are ways to organise competitions that are acceptable within the professional
    practice policies of these organisations. Personally, if I were interested in
    holding a design competition, especially as part of a product development process,
    I would contact AIGA or Icograda or one of the other large design organisations
    and ask them to help me shape it in a way that they would endorse, and which would
    then make the competition attractive to their members."
  created: '2013-07-11 00:42:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Regarding internships, the regulations in Canada recently changed, although
    this is mainly a matter of labeling, i.e. when you can use the word internship
    and when you must use the word practicum. As I recall: internships must be paid;
    practicums can be unpaid, but the participant must be a registered student.'
  created: '2013-07-11 00:45:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: The regulations vary from province to province, but in general the minimum
    wage regulation applies, unless the internship is a requirement of an educational
    course.
  created: '2013-07-11 02:23:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John (and Nick) all I'm hearing -at least in public- is \"we don't negotiate
    with terrorists\", \"spec is pure evil\", that sort of fascist posturing. I haven't
    witnessed anything that indicates the professional organizations are open to compromise
    on this, open to accommodating human nature. Are they secretly more pragmatic
    in private? Maybe. But either one of those being the case would be very good reason
    for me not to be a member.\r\n\r\nBTW did you notice what happened to the Canberra
    competition?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-11 02:30:18'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "terrorists... pure evil... fascist posturing...\r\n\r\nThat's some grade-A
    hyperbole there! Yum!"
  created: '2013-07-11 03:09:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, have you actually read what the AIGA and RGD web sites have to say,
    publically? (See my links above.)\r\nThey are cognizant of the grey areas involved,
    e.g. the AIGA:\r\n\r\n<em>What is spec work?\r\nAIGA acknowledges that speculative
    work\u2014work done prior to engagement with a client in anticipation of being
    paid\u2014occurs among clients and designers. Yet not all unpaid design work is
    considered \u201Cspec work.\u201D In fact, unpaid work may take a number of forms:</em>\r\n\r\n<em>Speculative
    or \u201Cspec\u201D work: work done for free, in hopes of getting paid for it\r\nCompetitions:
    work done in the hopes of winning a prize\u2014in whatever form that might take\r\nVolunteer
    work: work done as a favor or for the experience, without the expectation of being
    paid\r\nInternships: a form of volunteer work that involves educational gain\r\nPro
    bono work: volunteer work done \u201Cfor the public good\u201D\r\nNot all of the
    above are considered speculative work, and in fact many designers choose to do
    unpaid work for a variety of reasons. Students and professionals may draw different
    lines on what constitute unacceptable practices. In each case, however, the designer
    and client make the decision and must accept the associated risks.</em>\r\n\r\nFascist
    posturing? "
  created: '2013-07-11 03:18:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm sorry if I was unfairly harsh.\r\n\r\nBut I still feel they're creating
    an unwarranted atmosphere of guilt for the gain of the large studios.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-11 03:24:34'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "For more reading on contests,  spec-work, and design ethics:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.no-spec.com/design-organisations-their-stance/gdc/\r\nhttp://www.aiga.org/content.cfm/position-spec-work\r\nhttp://designertoday.com/Articles/4723/Spec.Work.Then.and.Now.aspx\r\nhttp://www.creativelatitude.com/articles/articles_fisher_dcontest.html"
  created: '2013-07-23 23:53:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.graphicdesignblender.com/why-designers-should-consider-tolerating-spec-work\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-24 04:27:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "From Hrant\u2019s link: <em>In relation to the example of the artist, he
    doesn\u2019t create art purely to make money, that\u2019s merely a beneficial
    side-effect. He does it because he\u2019s passionate about art and enjoys what
    he does. The same should apply to design.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is a bogus argument
    that\u2019s used to keep weirdo artists in their place, impoverished, on the margins
    of society.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s also very Freudian, locating work as an unpleasant
    aspect of the Performance Principle which drives the capitalist economy.\r\n\r\nBut
    why shouldn\u2019t everybody enjoy their work, not just artists? That certainly
    seems to be the direction the economy is headed, with <em>nobody</em> getting
    paid for content creation, on the theory that if they enjoy it, no remuneration
    required\u2014but what I really meant with my egalitarian argument is that <em>everybody</em>
    should enjoy their work and get paid for it!\r\n\r\n(Except of course when they
    volunteer, in those exceptions I quoted above, from the AIGA, and one would hope
    they enjoy such contributions.)"
  created: '2013-07-24 16:56:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Controversy in the UK:\r\n\r\nhttp://mikedempsey.typepad.com/graphic_journey_blog/2013/07/dad-backs-working-for-free.html"
  created: '2013-07-24 17:28:35'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "The GDB author seems to lump designers and artists together, which is wrong.
    While there are some areas of overlap, they are very different occupations. \r\n\r\nThere
    is a whole list of differences, but one of the main ones is that the artist is
    primarily concerned with self expression, while a graphic designer is focused
    on communicating a message on behalf of a client."
  created: '2013-07-24 18:35:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There's bogosity on both sides. Only peons and politicians pretend otherwise.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-24 19:05:54'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Never heard that word before, but I like it.
  created: '2013-07-24 20:08:31'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201CThe <em>artistic approach</em> follows the fine arts model, where visual
    elements are employed to express the personal values values and feelings of the
    designer. This attitude encourages developing an individual style as a kind of
    signature to distinguish the work and embraces the idea of working by intuition.
    The act of making the form is valorized above all else, and the view is promoted
    as the designer as an artist struggling against society by making personal statements
    through visual artifacts (Ehses, H., 2008, pp 2).\u201D\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nEhses,
    H. (2008). <em>Design papers 6: Design on a rhetorical footing</em>. NSCAD University,
    Canada.\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-24 21:29:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Artists aren\u2019t in it for the money.\r\nOther-side bogosity: that the
    wealthy are heartless sociopaths\u2014\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1091784601_4125.jpg]"
  created: '2013-07-24 21:50:59'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "Here's my virtual comment on the matter...\r\n\r\n[[http://www.sitepal.com/sendtofriend/?ss=2322650&sl=2626243&acc=1617243&from=neil@graphicdeclaration.com&to=neil@graphicdeclaration.com|Artists
    live forever more...]]\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-26 22:50:56'
date: '2013-07-08 23:55:15'
title: Design Contest

---
