---
author:
  name: amyp
  picture: 109556
body: "With type conference season in high gear, designers everywhere are uttering
  sighs of disbelief at the prohibitive costs of getting one\u2019s geek on.\r\n\r\nThe
  [[http://twitter.com/letterror/status/356711169236541442|discussions]] over [[http://twitter.com/typographica/status/356562011242512385|conference
  fees]], travel and hotel expenses are understandable. And given the variety of international
  type conference options available these days (ATypI, TypeCon, TYPO, Ampersand, TypeTalks,
  ICTVC, Typography Day, Granshan, Kerning, oh and [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i3k5oY9AHHM|this]]),
  how does one even chose what is worth attending?\r\n\r\nNew Yorkers may be familiar
  with The Rent is Too Damn High Party, a political party that has, since 2005, nominated
  Jimmy McMillan for mayor of New York City and governor of New York state. As its
  name implies, the party\u2019s continued focus is on the impossibly high rental
  prices that fail to meet the demands of the city\u2019s population.\r\n\r\nAre type
  conference fees too damn high? Despite the variety of events, price points and locations,
  like New York City\u2019s rents, are there still enough affordable and accessible
  options to meet the demands of the ever-growing typophile population? \r\n\r\nCurrently
  petitioning to include McMillan on the 2013 mayoral ballot,  [[http://www.rentistoodamnhigh.org/|the
  Party\u2019s website]] makes its position pretty clear: <em>**Rent Is Too Damn High
  There Is Nothing Else To Talk About. Absolutely \"NOTHING\".**</em> \r\n\r\nPerhaps
  we could talk about some webfonts for its site but hey, I\u2019m just a type nerd.
  \r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Organizations that put on type conferences are not get-rich operations. So
    -unless there's some serious financial mismanagement- I think there's only one
    good way to make them more affordable: forget being pampered; no fancy hotels
    in expensive areas, and no gorging on fancy food. Roughing it is totally my own
    style, but I know I'm not normal, so...\r\n\r\nThe original TypeCon in '98 remains
    the high water mark for me in terms of complete subservience to content.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-18 05:02:57'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Does anyone know of any type conference, camp &c that will actually compensate
    a keynote speaker for their time, experience, contribution, and cover their travel
    expenses?
  created: '2013-07-18 06:50:59'
- author:
    name: carinam
    picture: 124416
  body: Being a student on a budget, I'd love to see more type conferences offer video
    access as an alternative to attending the event. And while I realize part of attending
    a conference is the chance to network, sometimes when costs are too prohibitive,
    information alone would be sufficient.
  created: '2013-07-18 08:03:41'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: For the record, the board members, conference organizers and event volunteers
    are mythical creatures worthy of sainthood for the blood, sweat and tears they
    pour into making these events so inspiring. And to those of you considering any
    one of these conferences for the first time, if you have the means, then GO. It's
    always been an invaluable experience for me.
  created: '2013-07-18 15:37:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, in fact many years ago ATypI used to do this. But these days that
    only happens to the biggest names. Although sometimes it backfires: I remember
    at the conference in Beirut in 2005*, Ken Garland cost the organizers thousands
    of dollars and didn't show up. And David Carson didn't show up to the second Thessaloniki
    conference (although I don't know how much financial consequence that case had).\r\n\r\n*
    http://typographica.org/on-typography/typographicbeirut-report/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-18 15:44:09'
- author:
    name: Jens Kutilek
    picture: 113138
  body: "David Carson not showing up is the rule, not the exception. Or so I\u2019ve
    heard."
  created: '2013-07-18 15:53:53'
- author:
    name: Christopher Slye
    picture: 111927
  body: "Carina, as much as we'd love to have video for TypeCon, that is something
    that would add <em>even more</em> expense. Not only is paying for the equipment,
    its operators, and post-production substantial, but we've learned that proper
    lighting is also crucial to producing reasonable-quality video. There's an interesting
    balance to strike between what the live attendees see and what is adequate for
    video.\r\n\r\nOf course it's done all the time with other conferences... but it
    certainly wouldn't help lower the registration fees, and it would limit our choices
    of venue (because lighting for video requires the right kind of space). I'm not
    saying it will never happen, but it's tricky.\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-18 17:09:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Is it also fair to say that knowing the video is coming would lower attendance?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-18 17:26:55'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "I could not agree more. I used to love attending these meetings \u2013 I
    went to TypeCon and ATypI regularly. They were professionally very useful, and
    academically interesting. I made a lot of friends this way - in fact, I met many
    of you folks this way.\r\n\r\nHowever, that was back when my employer could foot
    the bill. There is no way an independent designer, unless they are very wealthy,
    can afford to attend these meetings as they now exist. As long as these organizations
    insist on having the meetings in very expensive hotels in very expensive cities,
    it's going to remain impossible.\r\n\r\nI haven't gone in years. I just can't
    afford it. I could justify it, sure - but I can't afford thousands of dollars,
    even with a shared room, to take time off work.\r\n\r\nAs someone who has co-planned
    one of the largest annual regional academic meetings in the United States for
    more than 15 years, I know it's very easy to get swept up by big hotels and great
    locations and think that people won't come if you don't have it in those place.
    I know it's easy to let hotels woo you into having a meeting at a place with a
    $150 room, and spending $10-$15,000 on catering. I know!\r\n\r\nBut you can say
    NO, organizers. My client does every year - their (volunteer) staff puts together
    a larger meeting than Typecon or ATypI combined, with more than 200 sessions,
    for a registration cost between $55 and $75, and an annual membership cost of
    $35 to $55 (students vs. faculty, sliding scale in between for low-paid instructors,
    grad students, etc.). They don't sign a contract with a hotel unless they can
    keep the price down about $100 a room, and yet they still have meetings at Hiltons
    and nice Marriotts. You just have to play hardball. You can't charge sponsors
    buckets of cash AND charge attendees as well; one or the other.\r\n\r\nIf you
    encourage a culture of participation, then you end up with a much bigger group
    of volunteers to put these things together. It does work if it's part of the culture.
    I think that's why it hasn't so far in our trade: that culture just doesn't really
    exist yet. Maybe someday it will, and these meetings will again be affordable
    to everyone, and we can bring in the students and the rest of us without deep
    pockets again."
  created: '2013-07-18 17:34:46'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "As an aside, [[SOTA]]\u2019s goal has always been focused on keeping [[TypeCon]]
    affordable. This year, we actually <em>lowered</em> student registration fees
    by $25 across the board. We\u2019ll be looking at the possibility of further fee
    reductions going forward."
  created: '2013-07-18 17:45:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Leave it to Josh to combine eloquence and sobriety. Exactly.\r\n\r\nI remember
    walking in to the shiny lobby of the Hotel Nikko for Typecon 2004 and immediately
    thinking: We don't need this.\r\n\r\nGrant, I think you guys are on the right
    track now, but there was a period where glamor started trumping content, and it
    takes time to course-correct. TypeCon remains the closest to my heart (partly
    because its first was my first) so I deeply hope you'll reinforce its populist
    spirit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-18 18:06:56'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "BTW, the big academic organizations that have meetings whose registration
    fee doesn't cover the meeting cost have a hidden weapon, one groups like SoTA
    could emulate: an academic journal. Libraries spend tens of thousands of dollars
    on subscriptions to the university press that publishes it, more than 60% of which
    goes back to the organization. Instead of making a journal or magazine part of
    a giveaway for attendees, make it instead a tool to make money.\r\n\r\nWe have
    a lot of smart people, good writers, historians and others in our trade. A real
    academic journal, published by a university press, could be a huge moneymaker
    for a group like SoTA et. al."
  created: '2013-07-18 19:10:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Smart.\r\nSoTA, if you ever need me to write something, I'm yours.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-18 19:22:13'
- author:
    name: Alessio
    picture: 120947
  body: "As a young freelancer I certainly agree that fees can be painful. Thus, I've
    only been to 1 design conference, and that was TypeCon 2012. The registration
    wasn't bad and I was able to stay with a friend nearby, thus making it affordable,
    and the knowledge gained was well worth the expense \u2013 you'd pay far more
    for equivalent knowledge at a university. It seems pretty reasonable, and I'll
    be able to make it again this year.\r\n\r\nOverall though, it seems like corners
    could be cut; it doesn't have to be in such an upscale hotel (where, although
    we can enjoy it, many attendees such as myself feel a bit out of place!), etc. "
  created: '2013-07-18 20:13:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Since even the SoTA's old "interrobang" has been missing in action for years,
    I wonder if the SoTA membership is up to the task of writing enough to support
    a scholarly journal?
  created: '2013-07-18 20:25:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Which raises the issue of peer-review.
  created: '2013-07-18 20:52:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "An organization I've belonged to and attended many of their conferences kept
    prices down by doing them on college campuses, during the summer break, usually
    in August. Colleges and universities (and even private secondary schools) will
    rent out the facilities for conferences, and people stay in the dorms, use the
    classrooms and lecture theaters; the cafeterias supply the food etc. Those who
    don't want to go back to living in a dorm for a few days can get outside hotels.
    \r\n\r\nYou definitely know it's not deluxe, but it's really quite pleasant, as
    campuses have a lot of greenery, and it creates a sense of unity among participants,
    as you are usually almost the only ones on campus. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2013-07-18 20:53:26'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nWe\u2019ve been wanting to reanimate <cite>Interrobang</cite>
    for years, but it always comes down to lack of time and resources. [[SOTA]] could
    likely fund the production of such a publication, but not at the expense of taking
    time and focus away from TypeCon and other special projects like Font Aid. What
    we need to accomplish something like this are additional volunteers\_to edit,
    write, and produce the publication. Preferably, these volunteers would not be
    already dedicated to serving on the organization\u2019s board or hip-deep in conference
    planning and logistics. There\u2019s only so much time in the day."
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: Grant, I volunteered for this several years ago [2007] and ended up with
      a most humiliating experience which I can't seem to forget.  I don't want to
      elaborate here. Talk to me about it at TypeCon.
    created: '2013-07-18 21:30:31'
  created: '2013-07-18 21:10:33'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Chris, I can\u2018t speak to that situation since I joined the board in late
    2009.\r\n\r\nYes, let\u2019s chat in Portland."
  created: '2013-07-18 22:18:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, that probably -partly- explains how TGM is managing to make Granshan*
    totally free (even the workshops) - it's all planned around universities, in the
    summer.\r\n\r\n* www.granshan.com\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-18 23:27:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Overall though, it seems like corners could be cut; it doesn't have to be
    in such an upscale hotel (where, although we can enjoy it, many attendees such
    as myself feel a bit out of place!), etc.\r\n\r\nAs JLT mentions the nicer hotels
    provide free or reduced cost meeting space if the organization can fill a certain
    number of hotel rooms and buy a certain amount of catering. So the nicer the hotel
    the better the deal. This relies on a certain number of attendees staying at the
    conference hotel, but there's nothing to stop cost-conscious attendees from sharing
    rooms or staying at the Green Turtle youth hostel / couch surfing down the road.
    \r\n\r\n > My client does every year - their (volunteer) staff puts together a
    larger meeting than Typecon or ATypI combined, \r\n\r\nEven if  TypeCon could
    attract an audience of this size, would we want it to? What makes TypeCon special
    is that there are not thousands of attendees. \r\n"
  created: '2013-07-19 03:58:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The way to prevent over-crowding is via focused content, not cost.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-19 22:24:59'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: If there's a conversation about helping out with Interrobang, I'd love to
    join in, but I can't make TypeCon this year. Any way to include virtual participants
    if something gets started?
  created: '2013-07-19 22:57:34'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "<blockquote>\u201CEven if TypeCon could attract an audience of this size,
    would we want it to? What makes TypeCon special is that there are not thousands
    of attendees.\u201D</blockquote>\r\n\r\nPrecisely.\r\n\r\nWe\u2019re very aware
    of what elements make TypeCon feel like \u201CTypeCon\u201D \u2026 and we want
    to keep it small, casual, and neighbourly."
  created: '2013-07-19 23:57:59'
- author:
    name: Arthus
    picture: 116411
  body: "Although I have never had the ability to join in on any type conferences
    (except one-day ones arranged by my academy), the moment I saw the AtypI fees
    I wondered where all the cash goes.\r\n\r\nAs a recent graduate (of one year)
    the student rule seems quite strict and doesn't give any leeway to those starting
    up in the field. Knowing this will be only one of the few conferences I'd be able
    to hop in (with transport costs of only a \u20AC4,- train ticket and only my current
    living expenses) I'm sure it's all out of my ballfield now, which is a pity.\r\n\r\nBeing
    in a weird zone between type production and mocking type production also makes
    the money investment not worth it. Thankfully there are some other initiatives
    providing a day or 3 for a sub \u20AC100, which keep my ability to meet up with
    the type world afloat.\r\n\r\nStill, having almost triple the costs of an academic
    conference is quite weird, something must be off.\r\n\r\nPerhaps I should try
    to offer sleeping accommodation, breakfast and dinner ;)"
  created: '2013-07-20 00:41:51'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "Regarding liking it small and wanting to keep it that way, if there were
    an explosion in popularity, and more people want to go to TypeCon than there was
    registration slots, how would you decide who gets to attend? First come, first
    serve? Previous attendance history? Peer-review? Would there be any inclusion
    or exclusion criteria?\r\n\r\n<strong>Devil\u2019s advocate</strong>: What are
    some ways you could keep TypeCon small without crossing the line of elitism?\r\n\r\n<strong>Question</strong>:
    What is the maximum number of allowed attendees for TypeCon 2013?"
  created: '2013-07-20 02:36:00'
- author:
    name: carinam
    picture: 124416
  body: "Christopher, \r\n\r\nRegarding lighting and setup I say follow the example
    of the TYPO conferences where video production has been successful for the past
    two years. In fact, this last year I purchased a ticket specifically to have access
    to the videos because the cost of attending was due more to the travel, accommodations,
    and time off from work expense than the conference itself. Again, these are the
    same limitations that keep me from attending TypeCon. \r\n\r\nAs far as the cost
    for video production, I point to Creative Mornings and what that team has been
    able to do. The ability to view past meetings also addresses another issue mentioned
    here which is how to keep these conferences feeling neighborly. If people are
    able to watch the processions without attending and paying the cost associated
    with travel, then they would be encouraged people to do so. In addition, if you
    charge people for only video access, then you should be able to keep that cost
    from impacting the regular attendee cost, though this assumes a high enough demand
    for such a product."
  created: '2013-07-20 06:50:47'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Yes, all hotels provide meeting rooms for free if you meet the room block.
    The academic organizations never pay for meeting rooms - if the room rate is low
    enough, you will sell out the room block and then some, getting the meeting rooms
    for free. All the more reason not to ever have the meetings at upscale hotels.\r\n\r\nI
    agree that the manageable size of Typecon is a plus. However, maybe the size is
    manageable because so many people can't afford to come? Getting to the right size
    through high prices/exclusivity/etc is not necessarily a good thing.\r\n\r\nI
    make a decent living, but I can't afford to go without serious help from my employer.
    I would bet that 80% of would-be attendees feel the same way.\r\n\r\nIf pricing
    it low enough to let people like me attend \"ruins\" the meetings, well ... then
    I guess you guys should enjoy your meetings without me :("
  created: '2013-07-26 18:44:38'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: I agree that the student pricing is ludicrous. It should be based on income
    - there are wealthy students, and there are professionals who make less than your
    average working student, too.
  created: '2013-07-26 18:46:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Joshua,\r\nI agree with your analysis.  If an organization would exclude
    a \"person like me\" why would I want to pay more?  To me, meeting other Type
    people (new and old) is the drawing card, not fancy hotels with overpriced meals.
    Perhaps a university setting would be best."
  created: '2013-07-26 19:20:01'
date: '2013-07-18 04:25:53'
title: The Type Conference Fee is Too Damn High

---
