---
author:
  name: hashimpm
  picture: 109610
body: "When the new font Nirmala was announced with Windows 8, one expected it to
  be better than Kartika, its unaesthetic predecessor with unacceptable shapes. But
  Nirmala Malayalam adds insult to the injury inflicted upon earlier.\r\n\r\nSample
  these:\r\n1. One conjuct has a missing stem\r\n2. Has a confusing stroke ending
  style\r\n3. Invents a clumsy way to handle descender portions\r\n4. Substandard
  design quality, no optical corrections or proper stroke modulation\r\n\r\nPlease
  see the jpg attachment for details\r\n\r\nDid the type designer(s) consult some
  one who knew Malayalam? Or did they think whatever they design will be accepted
  by others? I had pointed out the design problems in Kartika years back, but from
  repeating the same mistakes and making it worse it seems the people concerned donot
  care.\r\n\r\nI am not competent to comment on other Indian scripts in the font,
  but I hope they are not designed as mindlessly"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Conveniently you''ve chosen to mangle the name of the font. If you''d used
    its correct name "Nirmala <STRONG>UI</STRONG>" readers may have understood that
    the font was designed with the limitations of UI use, ie. having to work at 9pt
    (at 96dpi) on the same metrics as other UI fonts in Windows, and was designed
    with those limitations in mind. It''s not a document font. But hey I''m not letting
    the trolls sour my day! happy Sunday everyone! :-) '
  created: '2013-07-28 16:00:59'
- author:
    name: hashimpm
    picture: 109610
  body: "To the best of my knowledge, being a UI font or not doesn't justify dropping
    off one stem, a confusing design style, not applying optical corrections and poor
    design quality. I haven't been to Reading, but I have designed 30 Malayalam fonts
    for print as well as UI and know that these are the basic prerequisites for any
    font. Can n't we expect the same standards and care that is applied for Roman
    fonts (UI or not) to other scripts? Or should we be happy with the breadcrumbs
    being thrown in our direction with every OS update? The crucial question whether
    anybody who knew the language was consulted is actually being evaded conveniently.
    May be you do not think that is important.\r\nSorry to have spoiled your Sunday,
    but I need to point out such careless designs as they spoil all our days! "
  created: '2013-07-29 07:09:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The missing stem is a bug that has already been fixed.\r\n\r\nAs Si has pointed
    out, these are fonts that were designed to solve some very awkward technical problems
    inherited from the UI metrics restrictions. These account for the very particular
    solutions applied in the Nirmala UI fonts, which we wouldn't dream of applying
    if it were not for those restrictions. We 'invented a clumsy way to handle descender
    portions' because otherwise the below letters in conjuncts would have been clipped
    and unreadable. I'm sorry the results distress you, but they are far from careless
    and certainly not 'mindless'. A lot of thought went into making a legible design
    for small sizes that we could given the restrictions of the UI environment. All
    of which you might have known if you had bothered to make polite inquiries about
    the project before being so rude in a public forum.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, we are working
    with a Malayalam language expert to resolve additional issues with the fonts,
    and I am currently testing entirely new and more efficient approaches to some
    of the OpenType layout issues."
  created: '2013-07-30 02:14:09'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Since it was <em>Microsoft</em> designing the font, if the restrictions of
    the user interface metrics interfered with properly handling the Malayalam script,
    they could simply have rewritten the appropriate part of Windows to remove those
    restrictions.\r\n\r\nNow, I realize that if that would be an expensive development
    effort, the size of the market would not be adequate to pay for it.\r\n\r\nBut
    I am puzzled for one reason: in Windows, one can select arbitrary TrueType fonts
    to use for different elements of the user interface. If those fonts had to be
    special 'user interface' fonts, one would expect that the choices offered to the
    user would be very limited."
  created: '2013-07-30 03:48:29'
- author:
    name: hashimpm
    picture: 109610
  body: "Thanks John for your clarifications and accepting one mistake I had pointed
    out. I was not being rude, but offended by the carelessness. But if I sounded
    rude, my apologies. Imagine if you release a Roman font (UI or not) with a missing
    stem for 'm', wouldn't typographers in that script be offended, insulted and certainly
    not amused? The 'm' with the missing stem could even be read as 'n'. \r\n\r\nI
    believe languages and scripts are sensitive topics and need to be addressed carefully.
    Especially in India where the alphabet is often iconised and idolised. One my
    teachers recently pointed out a Sanskrit saying 'Na vidya mathrukapara' which
    roughly means 'There is no knowledge beyond the alphabet'. \r\n\r\nRegarding Nirmala
    being meant only for UI, that may not be the case. Being the only Malayalam font
    being shipped with the OS (I am not sure if Kartika is also shipped with Windows
    8), it is likely to be used for anything and everything, since there is no way
    to stop people from using it. Many people may use it, read it and believe it to
    be correct. I have seen many using Verdana and Georgia in print though they were
    designed for UI. "
  created: '2013-07-30 04:37:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">But I am puzzled for one reason: in Windows, one can select arbitrary TrueType
    fonts to use for different elements of the user interface. If those fonts had
    to be special 'user interface' fonts, one would expect that the choices offered
    to the user would be very limited.\r\n\r\nThis is true for the original classic
    shell where dialogs would sometimes change height based on the UI font (often
    with poor results), but not the new Windows UI which uses a typographic grid,
    and where the fonts need to be on the same vertical metrics to work properly,
    coupled with the 9pt (at 96ppi) minimal size this led to compromises for a variety
    of languages. As resolutions increase we can hopefully move beyond this in the
    future. \r\n\r\n>But if I sounded rude, my apologies. \r\n\r\nApology accepted.\r\n\r\n>Regarding
    Nirmala being meant only for UI, that may not be the case.\r\n\r\nPerhaps you
    could try Windows 8 and the Windows 8.1 Preview and see for yourself. \r\n\r\nAnd
    I'm always happy to accept bug reports directly. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2013-07-30 04:52:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hashim: <em>Regarding Nirmala being meant only for UI, that may not be the
    case. Being the only Malayalam font being shipped with the OS (I am not sure if
    Kartika is also shipped with Windows 8), it is likely to be used for anything
    and everything, since there is no way to stop people from using it.</em>\r\n\r\nAlas,
    this is the case. If I had it my way, UI fonts would not be enumerated in the
    system Fonts folder, and would be hidden from users, appearing only in the UI
    environments for which they were intended. There are simply too many restrictive
    factors affecting that environment to make a typographically sensitive solution
    for all writing systems. It is a serious problem that, eventually, can only be
    addressed by re-designing the user interface to be more dynamic, expanding to
    fit the natural proportions of all the world's writing systems and not only those
    that are close to the Latin script. In the meantime, we are forced to make UI
    fonts with numerous compromises and even novelties in order to make scripts as
    legible as possible within the technical constraints.\r\n\r\nI share your frustration
    with the poor quality of most of the Indian fonts available, and the very limited
    number of fonts at all for some scripts. It would be great to have more and better
    fonts intended for document creation and online reading, with appropriate metrics
    to allow the scripts enough vertical space to assume their normal written and
    typographic proportions.\r\n\r\n_____\r\n\r\nJohn Q.: <em>Since it was Microsoft
    designing the font, if the restrictions of the user interface metrics interfered
    with properly handling the Malayalam script, they could simply have rewritten
    the appropriate part of Windows to remove those restrictions.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    is a <em>huge</em> supposition. There is nothing simple about rewriting the entire
    Windows user interface design, especially not in a way that would make it truly
    adaptable and dynamic.\r\n\r\nThe fixed restrictions of the UI metrics was the
    primary, non-negotiable term in the Nirmala UI design brief: whatever we did <em>had</em>
    to fit within the vertical metrics of the Segoe UI and other UI fonts. The core
    target size for UI use, despite the increase in screen resolutions on many Win8
    devices, is still 9pt at 96ppi, i.e. 12 ppem, with some Office UI items displaying
    at 8pt (with further restrictions on ppi height through VDMX adjustments at some
    sizes). At 12 ppem, we have exactly 3 pixels below the baseline before we hit
    the OS/2 WinDescent limit, beyond which glyphs will be clipped. Many of the Indian
    writing systems make significant use of the space below the baseline, so we had
    to employ a number of strategies to squeeze subjoined letters and other descending
    shapes into the UI metrics. The results are not all pleasant, and some contravene
    the norms of these writing systems, achieving only a legible decipherability,
    rather than true readability.\r\n\r\nAgain, the long term solution has to involve
    a redesign of the UI to make it properly adaptable to different scripts and languages.
    At that point, Nirmala UI will be obsolete; for now, it is an improvement over
    the hodge-podge of different fonts used previously for Indian localisations, is
    consistent with Segoe UI and other Windows UI elements, and is so within some
    terrible technical constraints."
  created: '2013-07-30 20:32:12'
- author:
    name: hashimpm
    picture: 109610
  body: "All that boils down to one question:\r\nShouldn't people who know the language
    and the script be involved in designing its typefaces\u2014print or UI, I still
    don't appreciate the double standards\u2014for it so that informed decisions are
    arrived at and blunders (bugs would be too polite a term) do not happen again
    and again along with the invention of clumsy solutions? Should people who do not
    read, write or speak the language pose as experts and impose designs on those
    who read, write and speak the language? Shouldn't the people who use it have a
    say in its design?  India has design schools and competent type designers in every
    script. Shouldn't they also be involved rather than people who are seeing these
    scripts for the first time in their life. Or am I asking for too much? \r\n\r\nIf
    Kartika was crudely designed, Nirmala was born handicapped and no fix may undo
    the damage done. I shudder the day when I see books, notices and ads  printed
    with the disformed letter which is frequently used and the clumsy conjuncts with
    the wavering baselines. Some people may even think that this is the way the letter
    and the script should look like. I have heard of cars being recalled en masse
    to fix technical issues discovered later. Is there such a possibility in software
    releases?\r\n\r\nPersonally, I (and probably anybody who loves their mother tongue)
    would refuse to use the software until the blunder is corrected."
  created: '2013-07-31 06:24:19'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@hashimpm &ndash; Show them how to do it, then.'
  created: '2013-07-31 13:33:00'
- author:
    name: hashimpm
    picture: 109610
  body: "Show them how to do it, then.\r\n>>Would love to. I had already sent some
    suggestions to John (copy attached), though it is too late.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nirmala2_3477.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    damage done to the language cannot be undone until the software is recalled. \r\n\r\nI
    fail to understand why type design is still considered 'white man's burden': to
    uplift and civilise others. Even when there are capable people in those languages,
    the decision makers prefer people who do not speak, write, read or understand
    the language to those who do. And the damage done is for all to see. When you
    point out the blunders, you are asked to be polite. You make blunders and I have
    to apologetic?  Type colonialism?\r\n\r\nNirmala has many others scripts in it
    other than Malayalam, I just hope they are not as bad."
  created: '2013-08-01 12:11:28'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Fact: You are more likely to get the result you want by being polite than
    by starting a war.\r\n\r\nFact: Software is never recalled, just superseded. Old
    versions tend to linger on until the users actually install new versions. This
    is especially the case with fonts. They are given a very low priority in auto-updates
    as Si and John have recounted before. so users must themselves look for updates."
  created: '2013-08-01 13:07:32'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Software is never recalled, just superseded\r\n\r\nYep, very few products
    of any kind are ever recalled. Recalls are generally for defects that are safety
    hazards."
  created: '2013-08-01 16:23:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Culture aside...imagining the main stem thickness of this design with only
    one pixel to show it, the suggested changes are utterly insignificant at UI resolutions,
    (unless one is charging per hint).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-08-01 18:43:12'
- author:
    name: hashimpm
    picture: 109610
  body: "1. You are more likely to get the result you want by being polite than by
    starting a war.\r\n>> No intention to start any war. I had mentioned many of the
    mistakes in the previous Malayalam font Kartika years back (http://typophile.com/node/51298),
    but from the repeating the mistakes and creating more, it shows how futile the
    attempt was. I still don't know how pointing out mistakes and blunders is considered
    impolite! May be like the limitations of UI mentioned, language also has its limitations
    and words mean different to different people. Or may be the perpetrators and sufferers
    do not share the same emotional levels.\r\n\r\n2. ...the suggested changes are
    utterly insignificant at UI resolutions\r\nPlease see the first set which you
    may not have bothered to open, so here is an embedded png\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nirmala1_3959.png]\r\nDropping
    a stem is insignificant?\r\n\r\nThe people who have designed it and now expressed
    their opinions are not condemned to read it ever. We who may have to read it will
    have to suffer it every day."
  created: '2013-08-02 04:20:32'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: As John said, the later versions of the font do not drop the stem. As for
    getting a new version into the auto-update process... if you were to encircle
    India by road, walking, and set off today, it still would not have reached the
    update servers by the time you finished the walk.
  created: '2013-08-02 13:05:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">Dropping a stem is insignificant?\r\n\r\nYes and no.  But the significant
    thing was, in this thread, John Hudson said... that was a bug, and... it was fixed?\r\n\r\nSo,
    I'm on to the rest. \r\n\r\nAnd the rest looks more like an opportunity than a
    problem. I mean so what if the rest is good, sell the difference."
  created: '2013-08-02 16:38:44'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "This paragraph cogently articulates the urgent problem that plagues most
    non-Latin type today:\r\n\r\n'I fail to understand why type design is still considered
    'white man's burden': to uplift and civilise others. Even when there are capable
    people in those languages, the decision makers prefer people who do not speak,
    write, read or understand the language to those who do. And the damage done is
    for all to see. When you point out the blunders, you are asked to be polite. You
    make blunders and I have to apologetic? Type colonialism?'\r\n\r\nI take some
    issue with the perceptive suggestion that there is not a lot you can do when limited
    by stems that are just one pixel wide. That is true. And it is clever. But let's
    take a technological time trip back to the 1970s and 1980s. Thousands of lower
    ASCII  (i.e. basic English) fonts were designed on minute pixel grids, such as
    8x8. These fonts were not only legible but idiomatic. Hundreds were pleasing,
    and dozens were even beautiful. \r\n\r\nThis amazing achievement was possible
    because the designers had absorbed the letterforms along with their mothers' milk.
    \r\n\r\nSo how do we achieve results of comparable quality for non-Latin small-grid
    fonts? By learning to put our trust <em>only</em> in designers who are working
    with the forms they have grown up with. The alternative is bad type and opening
    up ourselves to the just charge of cultural imperialism and worse, crassness.\r\n\r\nI
    also take issue with the argument that the economics do not justify investment
    in better non-Latin type. First, the money is abundantly there, both for Microsoft
    and Apple. Second, just consider that in many cases, you can pay the very best
    non-Latin type talent a mere fraction of what you pay the American or Western
    European designer. The fact that you still <em>can</em> pay the best non-Latin
    type talent so little is a broader legacy of historical imperialism. It's a legacy
    we need to keep in mind. Because we are perpetuating that legacy every time we
    choose white guys to design type for the rest of the world. "
  created: '2013-08-09 08:34:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "This would appear to be an opportunity for local designers.\r\nWhy don\u2019t
    you have a go, Hashim?\r\n\r\nCorporate type designs are rarely to my taste, but
    there\u2019s no point in my trying to get them to design differently, because
    they are corporations.\r\n\r\nNow you may say that\u2019s \u201Conly aesthetics\u201D,
    and this is a different issue. But I don\u2019t think so. It\u2019s all politics. "
  created: '2013-08-09 16:51:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Bill, so the white man must find that non-white script designer who can design
    the single perfect version of that non-white script that every single non-white
    user will love, or else. If that don't happen, the script is dam-aged, the language
    screwed,  the people and their culture... lost forever, and no one should ever
    make another, or a better version of that script again. \r\n\r\nGot it."
  created: '2013-08-09 22:37:49'
- author:
    name: hashimpm
    picture: 109610
  body: "Thanks Bill for being sympathetic to my cause. I thought every one else had
    ganged up against me! \r\n\r\nOne needs to cross the fence to know how the people
    who use the language feel when their letterforms are being distorted and mutilated
    in the name of UI, lack-of-time, product cycle and what not, but never admitting
    their lack of knowledge of the language or script to design a passable typeface
    for it. \r\nI had been approached to design typefaces in Punjabi and Arabic before,
    but I had politely declined, because I knew I can never do an honest job without
    knowing the language or its culture. Even though I can read, speak, write and
    understand Hindi reasonably well, I would not dare to design a typeface for it,
    for the same reasons. How much should one know a language or script to design
    a typeface in it? Should he/she read/write/speak/understand/recognise the script
    or language? Would being good at one script be enough to design in any other?
    \r\n\r\nNick, I have designed nearly 30 typefaces in Malayalam which are being
    used in print and electronic media and will be designing more. Despite using ASCII,
    we had found our own indigenous ways to compose type on computers in our language
    for last 30 years. Now that Unicode makes it possible for all languages to coexist,
    we don't want all the progress in type design we made in the last 30 years to
    be demolished with crude and clumsy shapes and solutions imposed on us for any
    number of reasons.\r\n\r\nDavid, the question is not about the perfect form, but
    a form that is acceptable for the intended users. And I don't think that is asking
    for too much. A similar observation made years back (http://typophile.com/node/51298)
    \ which was definitely more polite did not bear any result.\r\n\r\nAs Reynir had
    pointed out the fix may take a long time or may never ever reach all and if some
    of the users assume the stem-less letter to be correct, being the default font,
    whom do you blame? Very soon we might be seeing blogs, websites and even books
    and ads where this frequently used letter may laugh at us.\r\n\r\nShould I still
    make 'polite' enquiries?"
  created: '2013-08-10 08:51:06'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Better yet, solve the problem, then work to make your solution *the* standard
    so that others' brokenness won't matter. Of course, you will have to make sure
    that your solution does not break under any circumstances.
  created: '2013-08-10 14:19:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "One (probably last) brief comment on this topic:\r\n\r\nI wouldn't leap to
    any general conclusions based on a particular font development project, especially
    not one so tightly constrained by technical considerations, product development
    cycles, code lockdowns, bug fixing cycles, etc.. I've worked on enough very large
    projects to know that unless you are aware of all the details, it is unwise to
    presume anything about the decisions that were made.\r\n\r\nWith regard to the
    designers we decided to work with on the Nirmala UI project, the timeframe of
    the project encouraged us to work with people with whom we already had experience
    and knew we could rely on to meet deadlines and work closely with Fiona during
    revision cycles. In practice, this meant selecting designers from among Fiona's
    former students in the MA in type design programme at Reading, all of whom had
    experience with Indic scripts, could produce artwork to my technical specifications,
    understood our workflows and toolset, etc.. If we were making the designer selection
    now, or even a year after we began the project, we would have been able to meet
    those criteria and also work with designers from India, because a number of excellent
    Indian students have been through the Reading MA programme recently: Vaibhav Singh,
    Kalapi Gajjar-Bordawekar, Neelakash Kshetrimayum. Neel has worked with us on Bengali
    newspaper typefaces, and on the semilight weight of Nirmala Bengali, as well as
    other projects.\r\n\r\nI expect, going forward, that sort of collaboration will
    become more common and progressively easier than it was. In the past two years,
    more western type designers have visited India and vice versa than probably at
    any other time in history. Connections are being made, people are finding ways
    to work together and, perhaps most importantly, friendships are being formed.
    We know more now about what is happening in India designwise, who to talk to about
    specific scripts, etc..\r\n_____\r\n\r\nIf there is a general lesson to be learned
    from the specifics of the Nirmala UI project, it is this: if you are designing
    an entire operating system user interface around a typographic grid, <em>don't
    presume that the same grid will work equally well for all writing systems.</em>
    That seems to me a much more important issue than anything in the design of a
    font that had to struggle with the consequences of getting that presumption wrong."
  created: '2013-08-10 21:20:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'So, what then, I wonder, are the minimum ppm requirements for each of India''s
    official scripts. '
  created: '2013-08-12 01:58:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "If one defines some criteria, it's possible to answer that question. In the
    case of the Nirmala UI fonts, where the target ppem was fixed, we had to define
    'minimum requirement' in terms of decipherability, which is much lower than the
    normal requirements of the scripts and readability. If one instead asks, as one
    should, what are the minimum requirements to display text according to the common
    norms of the script as applied to a given language, being faithful to the normal
    proportions of letters, conjuncts and marks and their positions relative to each
    other, then the ppem sizes required are a lot larger. And counting the pixels
    required for the tallest and deepest glyphs (plus marks) in each script doesn't
    help you deal with grids for multiscript text. It isn't simply the case that most
    of the Indian scripts require more pixel height than Latin in order to be readable,
    but that they make different use of the vertical height, most often with more
    pixels required below the baseline (common baseline alignment was another of the
    constraints on the Nirmala UI project: we were not able to do what used to be
    done for Arabic in some UI fonts and raise the baseline of entire scripts).\r\n\r\nIf
    one looks at Malayalam, the most vertically complex subjoined letter is -Ja, which
    requires at least 6 pixels in height to be legibly rendered in a fairly simple
    style; then you ideally want a space between the subjoined letter and the base
    letter, so that's a minimum of 7 pixels below the baseline (as against the 3 that
    we had to work with for Nirmala UI!). To determine the number of pixels needed
    above the baseline, one then has to figure how much vertical space the most complex
    base letter requires <em>when proportional to that subjoined -Ja</em>. I'm estimating
    that by the time you've taken that into account and also made above base allowance
    for virama and reph marks, you need something like 25 pixels.\r\n\r\nBut that's
    assuming that a single pixel stroke weight is being used for the subjoined -Ja,
    which has design implications for base letter stroke weight, especially in asymmetric
    rendering environments. If one harmonises the stroke weights -- typically meaning
    that the weight of the base letters will be slightly heavier than that of the
    subjoined letters --, then the base letters will be very light. If one makes the
    weight of the base letters appropriate to their size, then there will be a dramatic
    difference between the base and subjoined glyphs, especially if displayed at larger
    sizes or higher resolutions. So the question of what is the minimum ppem requirement
    cannot be answered, for a non-bitmap font format, independent of the design weight,
    and that's not even introducing bold style into the equation.\r\n\r\nAll of which
    is to say that while high resolution screens are even better news for Indian readers
    than they are for English readers, design solutions that aimed to solve technical
    issues around 9pt at 96ppi will not scale well to those higher resolutions, or
    to larger type sizes. We've made a semilight version of Nirmala UI for use at
    larger sizes in the Win8 UI (e.g. the 'Start' page label), in which we're able
    to better harmonise stroke weights between base and subjoined letters, among other
    things, but we're still stuck within the Segoe UI metrics and the inflexible grid."
  created: '2013-08-12 18:37:34'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: So you really need about twice the height you have to make things look decent.
    Big Ten-Ouch.
  created: '2013-08-12 21:20:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "In a specifically UI context, I would settle for 21 ppem to make Malayalam
    legible, I think. That would involve a design in which the subjoined forms were
    closer in scale than usual to the, proportionally smaller, base forms.* I'd take
    9 pixels for the base height, plus seven below the baseline for the subjoined
    depth, plus four above for virama and reph, plus one for built in leading (a luxury
    we didn't enjoy for Nirmala UI). That's probably the bare minimum height to do
    reasonable justice to the writing system. It would be a very size-specific solution,
    and not at all suitable for document or print use.\r\n\r\nThe Segoe UI OS/2 metrics
    afforded us a total WinAscent-to-WinDescent height of 15 pixels at 12 ppem (naturally
    16 pixels, but one was trimmed off in the VDMX table). But only three of those
    were below the baseline, which was the really painful aspect: we had plenty to
    work with above the baseline for most of the scripts (in Telugu, we contextually
    raised entire clusters with GPOS to avoid clipping subjoined forms, but in a few
    cases this pushed attached above vowel signs too high, which we had to fix with
    hinting). So overall we were only 29% short of an optimal height, but in that
    crucial baseline area we were  57% short. To ameliorate this in the Malayalam,
    we introduced the vertically shortened and raised variant base letters, to gain
    us another pixel below, and allowed the subjoined letters to touch the base letters,
    so we ended up with subjoined letters being 2/3 the height they would need to
    be in order for them all to be clearly legible. A fair number of the Malayalam
    subjoined letters can be made reasonably clear in a 4 pixel height, but others
    have collapsing counters and are at best suggestive of the general shape.\r\n_____\r\n\r\n*
    It's worth pointing out, I think, that in the palm leaf manuscript tradition of
    South Indian scripts it is common for base and subjoined letters to be closer
    in size than has become conventional in typography."
  created: '2013-08-12 23:27:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "> * It's worth pointing out, I think, that in the palm leaf manuscript tradition
    of South Indian scripts it is common for base and subjoined letters to be closer
    in size than has become conventional in typography.\r\n\r\nInteresting. It's the
    same with Burmese; in fact often the subjoined letters (especially medials) and
    superscript vowels are larger than the base letters."
  created: '2013-08-13 03:51:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I suspect the convention of small subjoined letters in South Indian typography
    is the result of accommodating the limitations of previous imported technologies,
    as well as reflecting the new kinds of publications being produced (for example,
    newspapers). In contrast, some of the Southeast Asian scripts retain their large
    subjoined forms in type, especially, as you note, for medials. I made a Javanese
    font this year -- debuting in the TypeCon exhibition next week --; now that's
    a script that doesn't skimp on descenders!
  created: '2013-08-13 04:11:47'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "That sounds logical; I also imagine in the case of Burmese, consonant clusters
    (and ligatures) are generally used only in Pali words (and, as a kind of shorthand
    in a select few everyday words) and so don't appear very frequently. Having these
    glyphs larger than the base letters requires more linespacing, which is an undesirable
    compromise for the scarcity of subjoined consonants. Medials are very common,
    but as they generally attach to the base letters (no gap) they don't need as much
    vertical space.\r\n\r\nLooking forward to seeing images of your Javanese. "
  created: '2013-08-13 05:06:37'
- author:
    name: hashimpm
    picture: 109610
  body: "I think the most important lesson one should learn from this exercise is
    that people who know the language and script should be involved or consulted when
    designing for it. \r\n\r\nFiona Ross had designed Linotype Malayalam typeface
    for phototypesetting system nearly three decades back and from the best information
    I could gather,\r\n1. the design was based on the exisiting hot-metal designs\r\n2.
    help from local artists was taken\r\n3. a few round of corrections were made before
    it was adopted\r\n\r\nUnlike now, designing for phototypesetting technology was
    not commonly available at that time to all and very few could have designed for
    it. I am sure technical limitations and time constraints were there even then,
    but the very fact that Linotype Malayalam is still perhaps one of the most the
    popular type designs after being adapted to the desktop by others speaks for itself.
    The typeface still has a few flaws in it and when I had the good fortune to meet
    the Fiona at Heidelberg a few years back at Linotype's Typotechnica, we did not
    get time to discuss finer details. \r\n\r\nThe very fact that people fluent in
    their respective languages are being chosen to collaborate is a healthy sign and
    will help much in making the designs conform to the requirements of the language.
    Careless chops, unacceptable shapes and clumsy solutions can be avoided if a person
    knowing the language and script is involved in the process. I would also request
    that instead of considering a one-year degree from one particular institute as
    a prerequisite for designing typefaces for world scripts, it would also be wise
    to give importance to talent and proficiency in a language and script. Also consultation
    and collaboration are much easier nowadays that it was three decades back.\r\n\r\nFrom
    the earlier Kartika debacle, one can learn that it is foolhardy to expect that
    one person fluent in one Indian language or script will be fluent in every other.
    India has dozens of scripts and in the worst case, the difference between two
    scripts can be as much as Latin is to Chinese. The whole purpose of Unicode is
    defeated if scripts are distorted to fit into some technical grids and parameters.\r\n\r\nAfter
    two faulty attempts, hope the next version of the software does some justice to
    Malayalam among other scripts."
  created: '2013-08-13 05:11:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I find nothing to disagree with in what you have said in this last post,
    Hashim. Yes, consultation with native typographers is definitely desirable, and
    is most often part of our process. Clearly, Nirmala UI Malayalam would have benefited
    from that also, not least because Fiona had so many other things on which to advise
    on this project. Another pair of eyes, such as yours, would have surely caught
    the serious bug with \u0D1E\u0D4D\u0D1E that both she and I missed. I apologise
    for that oversight, and for the unconventional design solutions we had to implement
    to deal with Malayalam within the constraints of the UI metrics and target sizes.
    As I wrote much earlier in this thread, the nature of user interface fonts is
    such that I believe they should not be presented in application font menus, so
    that users are not tempted to use them in document. Alas, this is not the case,
    and as you say this means that mistakes and technical compromises present in such
    fonts may proliferate in documents."
  created: '2013-08-13 06:09:07'
- author:
    name: hashimpm
    picture: 109610
  body: "Thanks John. \r\nThat is precisely the point I was trying to make."
  created: '2013-08-13 06:48:34'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Nir-mala denotes no fault (mala)\r\nSa-mala denotes with fault (mala)\r\n\r\nSimply
    rename Nirmala to Samala."
  created: '2013-08-13 11:28:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John: \"As I wrote much earlier in this thread, the nature of user interface
    fonts is such that I believe they should not be presented in application font
    menus, so that users are not tempted to use them in document\" ...\r\n\r\nI think
    you mean the nature of user interface fonts <em>on Windows</em>, or any combination
    of low res and non-std TT scaling and rendering.\r\n\r\n\"...design solutions
    that aimed to solve technical issues around 9pt at 96ppi will not scale well to
    those higher resolutions, or to larger type sizes\"\r\n\r\nThis is Cleartype is
    not suited for India.... and... let's see...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-08-13 13:32:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Let me rephrase: it should be possible to decide whether or not a given font
    intended for use in the operating system UI or similar environment-specific use
    is also made available as a document font. It shouldn''t be the case that every
    font used by the system also shows up in e.g. the Word font menu. I don''t think
    this notion is particular to Windows. There is a long history of fonts designed
    for very specific purposes and conditions that tend not to work well as document
    fonts, and it seems to me reasonable that user access to such fonts might be restricted.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: Tosche
      picture: 113809
    body: On MacOSX, for example, the font used in the Japanese UI is not listed in
      the font menu.
    created: '2013-08-13 18:19:08'
  created: '2013-08-13 17:59:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: PS. UI fonts constitute part of the visual branding of an operating system
    or other piece of software, so restricting access to their use also seems reasonable
    in terms of avoiding brand dilution. In Windows 8, the lighter weights of Segoe
    UI are a prominent part of the 'look and feel' of the operating system, and making
    the same fonts available to users seems to me unwise.
  created: '2013-08-13 18:24:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"... and making the same fonts available to users seems to me unwise.\"\r\n\r\nWell,
    grab a time machine and kill Frutiger's mom then why don'tcha?!\r\n\r\n...the
    helveticarutiger international style of plain, which nearly all sides and scripts
    have adopted as their Geneva, is, I think, an attempt to appear as public spaces
    do in the brick and mortar world of street signs, building, road and airport navigation,
    and much more. Quietly authoritative, and with no opinion or attitude. Imaging
    \"Arrivals\" e.g. in Segoe, is not too difficult.\r\n\r\nNow, if some font is
    handicapped for anything but the UI, sure, don't let that loose... But that should
    not have to happen. These fonts should be paragons of virtue, suitable as templates
    for type designs in their wake, for ui use on the os, and for all manner of composition
    and output. \r\n\r\nAnd,  I think there are a lot of ways to skin a UI font issue.
    If you are poor, you use system ones, or open source ones... If you want to stay
    unique you make ones that work in your world and not in anyone else's. I have
    seen all of this, but never have I heard a type designer complain they didn't
    like them. Never. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-08-13 23:04:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>These fonts should be paragons of virtue, suitable as templates for type
    designs in their wake, for ui use on the os, and for all manner of composition
    and output.</em>\r\n\r\nI would have loved that to be the case with Nirmala UI,
    but the metrics constraints were a massive obstacle. There is much that is good
    in the fonts -- some of the script designs have been praised by native users --,
    much that would be adaptable to document fonts freed from the UI constraints,
    but only a few of the scripts (Tamil, Gurmukhi, Sinhala) get away without some
    amount of abuse to make them work within the Segoe UI metrics."
  created: '2013-08-14 03:01:45'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: I'm not persuaded by the arguments about the limitations imposed by the Segoe
    UI metrics. Of course there are constraints. But only a native designer (of great
    skill) can make acceptable choices within those constraints. It is clear from
    this thread that there was no substantive consultatation with a native designer,
    which is a surprising omission on Microsoft's part.  What could it possibly have
    added to the overall cost? Naturally the consequence is a disaster.
  created: '2013-08-24 11:44:28'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: It would certainly be interesting to see if an Indian designer could have
    done a better job, given constraints that sound extremely tough.
  created: '2013-08-24 13:55:28'
- author:
    name: hashimpm
    picture: 109610
  body: "Bill, John had finally admitted that \"consultation with native typographers
    is definitely desirable, and is most often part of our process\". Which means
    there was none of the kind in the case of Nirmala Malayalam. He had also suggested
    collaboration and consultation as the way to go in future to avoid more such disasters.
    My fond hope is that they keep their word. Otherwise people like me may have to
    bring this issue up again after four years!\r\n\r\nAnd Bendy, India has good design
    schools and skilled type designers who have designed many typefaces that are in
    use in the thousands of  publications in each script. Wouldn't you think that
    they who have known their script for years know better what is good for them that
    those who are probably seeing it for the first time in their life?  "
  created: '2013-08-25 09:08:31'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: ">Wouldn't you think that they who have known their script for years know
    better what is good for them that those who are probably seeing it for the first
    time in their life?\r\n\r\nAny designer who has been through the Reading programme
    will definitively *not* be seeing Malayalam \"for the first time in their life\".
    And of course familiarity with a writing system doesn't always match up with being
    a good designer.\r\n\r\n>India has good design schools and skilled type designers
    who have designed many typefaces that are in use in the thousands of publications
    in each script. \r\n\r\nIt sounds like it may be helpful to give that info to
    MS, especially any UI type designers."
  created: '2013-08-25 09:34:49'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">finally admitted that \"consultation with native typographers is definitely
    desirable, and is most often part of our process\". \r\n\r\nDo you really think
    this occasion marks the <em>first</em> time anyone uttered those words? This concession
    has been conceded so many times it's in the Guiness Book of Records. \r\n\r\nHere's
    an example to illustrate the problem. Your grid is a generous 12 pixels high.
    How many pixels will you give the upper segment of the stem of t? This is a hard
    decision for a Latin script designer to make even when the resolution is 1000x1000;
    even when it is 15,000x15,000. Will one pixel be too little in fast on-screen
    reading? Will three pixels be too much?\r\n\r\nThese questions can only be answered
    by someone who lives and breathes the alphabet every day. The more I think about
    it, the more I am saddened that anyone would routinely suppose they could design
    an 'Other's' alphabet. "
  created: '2013-08-26 10:25:50'
- author:
    name: hashimpm
    picture: 109610
  body: "Very true Bill. It is an unfair world, where the people for whom it is meant
    to be often have no say in what they would like. Decisions are often made arbitrarily
    and imposed. This happens in almost every field and type design could be no different.
    One can only hope that the decision makers consult, collaborate and take feedback
    at least before they release a typeface with which they are not native. Excuses
    like technical limitations, time constraints and what not only demonstrate their
    carelessness and mindlessness which was raised and denied. Since one of them have
    admitted their mistake, we will to leave it there. At least after two mistakes,
    they might turn wiser next time.\r\n\r\nAnd Bendy, in my opinion, type design
    and language proficiency need n't be mutually exclusive. There are type designers
    who are proficient with the script and they might be better suited for such jobs
    than type designers who are just familiar with a script or who are just exposed
    to it. I am not familiar with the one-year Reading programme and cannot assume
    that they teach languages and scripts there. Deeper study, better role models
    and a willingness to consult is another way of preventing such mishaps, if one
    lacks proficiency in the script. "
  created: '2013-08-27 04:52:40'
date: '2013-07-28 15:07:01'
files:
- filename: nirmala_0.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/nirmala_0.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Nirmala Malayalam, another mindless type design

---
