---
author:
  name: DavidL
body: "So far the SVG OpenType project has been discussed only on email lists dedicated
  to specifications. I wanted to bring it up on Typophile since it will feature in
  discussions at TypeCon next week.\r\n\r\nFor a couple of years now Adobe has been
  working with Mozilla and others in a W3C community group to work out details around
  a proposal to extend OpenType with an optional \u2018SVG \u2018 table to allow for
  SVG-quality glyph descriptions, including color gradients and animation. The main
  use cases are creative titling and similar display uses, as well as emoji. Mozilla
  has had an implementation of the 'SVG ' table in Firefox for a year now, and we're
  currently all working on putting together an official draft for the font standard,
  getting the tooling in order, and sharing our ideas for these kind of richly expressive
  fonts.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft recently announced a color font implementation [[http://typophile.com/node/104174]],
  which has brought the larger discussion about color fonts to the fore again. Everything
  Microsoft has included is clearly a step in the right direction. Our interest in
  SVG (which offers a superset of the features in the Microsoft implementation) is
  based on the belief that while flat color areas are good, other features of SVG
  are also valuable. In particular, gradations and animation add significantly to
  the expressive potential of graphic images. And while all the current color font
  implementations (unofficial bitmap formats from both Apple and Google, and now Microsoft\u2019s
  outlines) appear to be driven largely by the desire to support emoji, the potential
  uses are much broader. We believe that when extending the OpenType format it\u2019s
  important to look beyond the immediate use case and to build for the future. Now
  is the time to make sure we\u2019re enabling what\u2019s needed in the next decade.\r\n\r\nSome
  existing bitmapped emoji designs already use gradations and animation to help communicate
  the icons\u2019 meaning in the small space allotted. Adobe did some design explorations
  with emoji a couple years ago, but more recently we\u2019ve been thinking about
  the benefit gradations and animation would bring to letterforms. My team is putting
  together a few examples to hint at the kind of opportunities this would bring, and
  I\u2019m sure many designers on Typophile will come up with others we haven\u2019t
  even thought of. We hope to have a handful of things to demonstrate at TypeCon next
  week, and will post links to samples in this thread as well. You can see some initial
  examples of animated emoji explorations at [[http://www.adobe.com/devnet-apps/type/EmojiGradient.html]].\r\n\r\nIf
  you\u2019re curious for additional details in the meantime, Caleb Belohlavek, Adobe\u2019s
  product manager for type, has sent out a list of requirements and a value proposition:
  [[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-svgopentype/2013Jul/0004.html]].\r\n\r\nthanks,\r\nDavid
  L"
comments:
- author:
    name: Sairus Patel
    picture: 126865
  body: "For those who don\u2019t know me, I\u2019m the Core Type Technology and OFF/OpenType
    spec lead at Adobe. I look forward to meeting many of you next week at TypeCon
    and pondering where these various moves to incorporate color and/or animation
    could take \u2013\_and have taken! \u2013 the type and design communities.\r\n\r\nIf
    you\u2019d like to see <strong>SVG OT in action in Firefox</strong> right now,
    follow the instructions below. Then go to http://people.mozilla.org/~jkew/opentype-svg/GeckoEmoji.html
    and you should see the emoji spring to color life. Note that these colored glyphs
    are specified in the \u2018SVG \u2019 table in the OT font embedded on that web
    page and that what you\u2019re seeing is Firefox\u2019s implementation of this
    OT spec extension in action.\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Firefox v24 and up (download at
    http://nightly.mozilla.org if needed).\r\n<li>Type about:config in the address
    bar to bring up Firefox's config prefs.\r\n<li>Narrow the prefs by searching for
    \u2018svg\u2019. Then change the values of gfx.font_rendering.opentype_svg.enabled
    to true and svg.display-lists.painting.enabled  to false (the latter may not be
    needed after a particular bug is fixed).\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nThe latest <strong>technical
    spec for SVG OT</strong> is at the bottom of http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-svgopentype/2013Jul/0003.html
    in case you\u2019re interested.\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nSairus"
  created: '2013-08-17 03:03:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"In particular, gradations and animation add significantly to the expressive
    potential of graphic images.\"\r\n\r\n...but these are fonts, not \"graphic images\".
    ;) In any case,  is there a scaleable version of the demo at \".../type/EmojiGradient.html.\"?\r\n"
  created: '2013-08-18 12:19:25'
- author:
    name: DavidL
  body: "@Emanual All type is graphic, and typography is about visual communication.
    The emoji (from the earlier experiment mentioned above) are scalable outline images,
    that use gradations & animation. As noted earlier, we'll get some more typographic
    images up shortly. The point of the site is to demonstrate that gradations and
    animation are useful in some font contexts, so it's a very simple site - no end-user
    scaling offered at this time.\r\nthanks,\r\nDavid L"
  created: '2013-08-18 18:09:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>no end-user scaling offered at this time.</em>\r\n\r\nOther than that
    provided by browsers, I presume you mean.\r\n\r\n<em>to demonstrate that gradations
    and animation are useful in some font contexts</em>\r\n\r\nHmm. Fonts have been,
    since Gutenberg, a convenient format in which to store some kinds of little graphics
    to be published in the same medium as text; hence renaissance ornament fonts,
    19th Century cartoon slugs, etc.. What you really seem to be saying, David, is
    that you want fonts to be convenient for other kinds of little graphics, such
    as those with gradations and animation. This seems to be quite different from
    saying that these things are useful in some font contexts: rather, you want to
    make fonts useful for these things. The trouble I have with the whole notion of
    graphics in fonts is that, in fact, digital fonts are much less convenient as
    storage mechanisms for any kinds of non-text graphics than old trays of metal
    used to be; this is because accessing sorts in digital fonts relies on character
    encoding and text processing. So when people want to display little graphics with
    digital fonts, they first need to encode those little graphics as if they are
    text. This leads inevitably to either a bunch of stuff in fonts that is not reliably
    interchangeable in documents, or to pressure on text encoding standards to accept
    little graphics into their character sets.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I'd like to see
    little graphics given their own interchange architecture, suited to their characteristics,
    rather than bolting them into fonts and then determining that font formats are
    lacking if they don't support dancing penguins. But I understand that this would
    be more work than adding yet another outline format table to OFF.\r\n\r\n_____\r\n\r\nPS.
    I also take issue with the idea that 'typography is about visual communication'.
    Typography is about textual communication; it's communicative content is massively
    linguistic."
  children:
  - author:
      name: DavidL
    body: "@John Hudson  I agree putting unencoded images into fonts is of questionable
      utility. While there's been no shortage of dingbat fonts, that's not inherently
      what I'd envision. The emoji on the sample page, and the other samples we hope
      to post soon, are all Unicode characters.\r\n\r\nAnd while typography is certainly
      linguistic, it's also massively visual. You're the one reading this, not your
      computer, unless you're using a screen reader (in which case the font choice,
      line layout etc. are not having their intended effect).\r\n\r\nthanks,\r\nDavid
      L"
    created: '2013-08-19 16:21:50'
  created: '2013-08-19 07:05:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Speaking of massively linguistic, I was asked to make a type that wrote itself.
    Any folks done this know, when <em>time</em> is part of typography, as opposed
    to penguins, the expected behaviors are not so simple to achieve. Unicode, for
    example, while containing an unclear number of strokes, (like a \"sans 'I' has
    just one!'), has no information about how much <em>time</em> each stroke takes,
    nor the <em>time</em> there is between, if there is any, or relates some <em>time</em>
    to the word space. 1 entire unicode font that drew itself would take one of the
    younger of us the rest of our life to figure out the timing of. Should that deter
    the standard, I'd not be surprised;)\r\n\r\nBut the alternative, storing the definitive
    drawing of a letter in the application that makes the animation, and copying that
    every time one needs the letter drawn, is not going to work, like it did for us
    back in 1994. \r\n\r\nThe relation of the glyph's contours to the clock are only
    one aspect of type time. So, where is the time table? \r\n\r\nI would also like
    to say...from\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-svgopentype/2013Jul/0004.html.\r\n\r\nThe
    analogy to surgery in this link is inappropriate. It is indicative of the attitude
    towards the OT format \u2014 designed, like a human chest, not to be cracked open
    at all. \r\n\r\nAdobe wants to get it over with once? and for decade! time, size,
    gvar, cvar, fvar, krn2!, \"improvement\" to OS/2 width and weight, and the new
    MS color tables should do all you need.\r\n\r\nAnd someone! please show how color
    gradations are going to scale in low resolution Cleartype. "
  created: '2013-08-19 12:29:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I guess what I can't see is what good it will do compared to the harm?  When
    animated GIFs first appeared, they drove me nuts.  Everything was blinking and
    popping in DayGlo colors.  I was so distracted that I could not read anything.  I
    will be curious to see the presentation at TypeCon.  Right now, I am still in
    WTF? mode.
  created: '2013-08-19 12:45:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The emoji on the sample page, and the other samples we hope to post soon,
    are all Unicode characters.</em>\r\n\r\nRight, but that's because of pressure
    to handle those little pictures in the existing text encoding and interchange
    architecture, including pressure to be able to handle them in fonts, in the absence
    of a dedicated Little Picture Encoding and Interchange architecture.\r\n\r\n<em>And
    while typography is certainly linguistic, it's also massively visual.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    we were talking about communication, and the communicative content of typography
    is massively linguistic. The visual aspect of typography is simply the nature
    of writing as a visual representation of language, and what type <em>communicates</em>
    visually independent of that linguistic content -- the ideas conveyed by the particular
    visual representation of the text -- is mostly superficial and crude, expressible
    in simplistic adjectival terms: 'elegant', 'clear', 'friendly', 'grunge', etc..
    That seems to me barely communicative.\r\n\r\nIt's a first-year design school
    adage that typography exists to serve text, one implication of which is that font
    formats exist to serve text too. Colour, gradations and animations only need to
    become part of the font format because things are being treated as text that were
    not previously treated as text. And I understand and accept this need -- somewhat
    grudgingly, it is true, but then I was one of the people who made the case against
    the encoding of emoji in Unicode --, but I think we should be clear about why
    we're now looking at things like SVG in OpenType and other mechanisms. It isn't
    because there is a use for such things in fonts or typography, but because we're
    trying to make fonts useful for pseudo-textual content that includes things that
    no one ever considered text before. I think it is important to be clear about
    this, because that's the only way we can understand and anticipate the pressures
    that may result in further expansions of our concept of what constitutes 'text'.
    Simply defining text as 'anything encoded in Unicode' is begging the question,
    because one of the things at issue is what should be encoded in Unicode."
  children:
  - author:
      name: DavidL
    body: "@ John Hudson  I remember your opposition to adding emoji to Unicode. I'm
      still a bit surprised, because what you're dismissing as not linguistic or textual
      is a set of symbols that communicate well-understood meanings. Language is not
      just what is spoken, but what is communicated, and has had a visual dimension
      from the beginning. Emoji are simply one mechanism for restoring a bit of the
      bandwidth that is lost when language is reduced to written text.\r\n\r\nAs for
      graphic communication being crude compared to written text, I think that's true
      in some cases and not others; it depends largely on the purpose of the communication.
      People are paying far more to fine-tune the appearance of ads than to fine-tune
      their text.\r\n\r\nI am also surprised at what seems to be a concern about the
      potential of expanding what \"text\" constitutes. Nobody's forcing anyone else
      to use emoji or other more expressive attributes of type, but the world sees
      a need for them. As you know, communication is enhanced when it incorporates
      standardized systems (such as Unicode and SVG).\r\n\r\nthanks,\r\nDavid L"
    created: '2013-08-19 23:45:35'
  created: '2013-08-19 19:42:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"It isn't because there is a use for such things in fonts or typography,
    but because we're trying to make fonts useful for pseudo-textual content that
    includes things that no one ever considered text before. I think it is important
    to be clear about this, because that's the only way we can understand and anticipate
    the pressures that may result in further expansions of our concept of what constitutes
    'text'. Simply defining text as 'anything encoded in Unicode' is begging the question,
    because one of the things at issue is what should be encoded in Unicode.\"\r\n\r\nBravo!
    Well said, John!\r\n\r\nA picture \"may\" be worth 1000 words but 1000 pictures
    do not replace a word."
  created: '2013-08-19 20:03:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I didn't say that graphic communication was crude compared to written text,
    I said that what typography communicates <em>independent of the linguistic content
    of the text</em> is crude in comparison. My point is that typography is a technology
    that developed around the massively linguistic communicative content of text,
    and changing that technology to accommodate non-textual content should be done
    with eyes wide open and not passed as somehow just business as usual.\r\n\r\nPlease,
    please, note that I am not opposed to SVG in OT and related proposals, and I am
    not concerned about expanding notions of text. I am saying that we should try
    to be clear in our understanding of what is happening and what it means, and I
    found some of the initial statements in this thread a bit woolly. 'Visual communication'
    is a red flag phrase for me, because no one has ever been able to explain to me
    exactly what it is or how it works."
  created: '2013-08-20 00:37:16'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">'Visual communication' is a red flag phrase for me, because no one has ever
    been able to explain to me exactly what it is or how it works.\r\n\r\nIt can't
    be explained. It has to be communicated visually! ;-)"
  created: '2013-08-20 00:40:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I have been a Visual Communication Designer for over 50 years.  If I want
    to tint and fade and color and slant and spin type, I know how.  The trick is
    not overdoing it. Turning text into an amusement park snowcone is not visual communication.  Visual
    communication involves the skill to know when and how is needed to communicate.  Tools
    are tools for professionals. Don't make it so easy for amateurs to get gaudy.
  created: '2013-08-20 00:47:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Nice one, Si.
  created: '2013-08-20 00:49:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John, \"..because of pressure to handle those little pictures in the existing
    text encoding and interchange architecture, including pressure to be able to handle
    them in fonts,\"\r\n\r\nYeah, but that seems to be done deal.\r\n\r\nLittle pictures
    now must be in MS font software, and (for every OT quadratic action, there is
    an unequal though non-opposite OT cubic reaction) Adobe font software. \r\n\r\n<em>The
    idea was to slip something useful under cover of Emoji Wars, but now, sigh, it's
    on to the philosophy of Glyph Wars.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-08-20 01:10:28'
- author:
    name: Sairus Patel
    picture: 126865
  body: "Are these proposed font spec extensions specific to \u2013 or mostly useful
    just for \u2013 emoji? I think that\u2019s a question I\u2019m hearing in some
    of the discussion above.\r\n\r\nThe answer, in my opinion, is a clear No. All
    the examples on http://www.photolettering.com are of Latin text. That website
    was one of the major inspirations behind the SVG OT project\u2019s \u201Ccolor-by-numbers\u201D
    or color palettes facility (as discussed [[http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-svgopentype/2012Aug/0000.html|a
    full year ago]] on svgopentype).\r\n\r\nThe potential uses of color, gradients,
    or animation in fonts are much larger than just for emoji.\r\n\r\nYes, we must
    continue to wrestle with questions of \u201Cwhat really constitutes text.\u201D
    These questions are not new to OpenType. For example:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li> I have a
    sense that predictability or repeatability is a core property of text. However,
    OpenType\u2019s contextual alternates, CFF\u2019s random operator, and the tricks
    one can play with TT hinting \u2013 e.g. a three morphs into what looks like a
    four at a certain ppem \u2013 may push the limits of one\u2019s comfortable understanding
    of the predictable display of text.\r\n<li>I can\u2019t make up my mind what pummels
    my concept of text more: the encoding of symbols in Unicode (e.g. Zapf Dingbats,
    emoji), or the use of Unicode\u2019s Private Use Area in fonts, e.g. as blessed
    by MS\u2019 cmap symbol encoding. And on the OFF list it has even been suggested
    that since all car dashboard symbols have already been standardized, getting them
    into Unicode should be a trivial task. While I\u2019m not involved in Unicode
    standardization efforts, I would probably strongly question any effort to significantly
    extend OpenType primarily for the benefit of symbols or icons, whether they were
    blessed by Unicode or not.\r\n</ul>\r\n"
  created: '2013-08-20 02:02:50'
- author:
    name: DavidL
  body: "The samples that I promised are now available; you can view them at [[http://www.adobe.com/devnet-apps/type/svgopentype.html]].
    This is all still very much proof-of-concept material, simply intended to indicate
    some non-emoji uses. Caveat: While the actual SVG material works fine in IE, there
    seems to be an issue in the HTML wrapper that kills the animation on that browser,
    at least in some cases. We're trying to figure it out. In the mean time, if it
    doesn't work in your IE installation, you'll have to view in a different browser.\r\nthanks,\r\nDavid
    L"
  created: '2013-08-21 00:34:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: :) ...
  created: '2013-08-21 02:00:52'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: Nice concept showcase -- and it works on my iPad!
  created: '2013-08-21 07:35:30'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: They work on my iPhone but I feel like I have just been rudely returned to
    the 90s. This really does not feel like moving forwards for either fonts or animation
    but I am intrigued to see how it develops.
  created: '2013-08-21 08:11:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "No scale yet, though. \r\n\r\n\"...\u2013 e.g. a three morphs into what looks
    like a four at a certain ppem...\"\r\n\r\nAre you Sairus?\r\n\r\nYou really need
    a time table and a size table if the unicode of a glyph is going to vary, by size.
    Here, (https://vimeo.com/72744590), it's varying by time.\r\n\r\nWatching <em>this</em>
    combinatorial implosion is going to be painful. As more stuff is added for narrow
    requirements, less becomes broadly possible. \r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Sairus Patel
      picture: 126865
    body: Emanual, my "three morphs into what looks like a four at a certain ppem"
      example was simply to show that visual tricks could be done using existing TT
      technology. It was not meant to be a use case for the color/animated font solutions.
    created: '2013-08-29 16:34:55'
  created: '2013-08-21 11:43:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sairus: \"It was not meant to be a use case for the color/animated font solutions.\"
    \r\n\r\nIf you say so. But what if that's what people want to use animation for?
    What would you suggest type developers do with a glyph that covers a range of
    unicode values over time (as I show in the video), or a range of unicode values
    in space as you suggest?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-08-29 17:04:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The answer to that question depends on how the animation is triggered. I
    think we have to take it as read that character encoding drives glyph display,
    and not the other way round. Introducing animation is unlikely to turn this on
    its head. So I see a couple of different options for animating something like
    a countdown, as shown in David's video:\r\n\r\n1. A single glyph level animation
    representing a single 'countdown) character (probably PUA, possibly culminating
    in an explosion or rocket launch animation) ;\r\n\r\n2. Multiple glyph level animations,
    one for each numeral transform, responding to a multiple digit character countdown
    driven by software; i.e. the software counts down, changing the digit Unicode
    at each step, and the font provides a different glyph animation for each digit
    (coordinating the timing of the character changes and the animations will be the
    tricky bit)."
  created: '2013-08-29 19:57:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John, \" So I see a couple of different options for animating something like
    a countdown, as shown in David's video:\"\r\n\r\nI know how to animate it... I
    want to store it. \"It\" being a discrete place or range in an otherwise indiscrete
    range. In that place is a \"something\" the user needs to know. \r\n\r\n\"1....\"
    \r\nForgetting about PUA, and this 1995 demo video, or probablies \u2014 Any unicode
    glyph, via animation, can become any other(s). Store it how?\r\n\r\n\"2....\"
    \r\n\r\nJohn, I think you'd agree then, coordinating the timing in animation,
    is pretty much, animation. \r\n\r\nSo, if there is anything in the animated font
    that crosses any bound as defined by the current format the font is within, (and
    the user needs to know where), then shouldn't the format know how to store it?\r\n\r\nWith
    only Adam talking of sourcing all this, bless his heart, we're all pretty busy
    I'm sure, but one more question?\r\n\r\nIf we are talking about fonts for the
    next decade, size 'n time tables for all, or not, don't things that are scaleable,
    rotatable, skew-enabled and responsive in the way outlines are, need a separate
    format from bitmaps?\r\n\r\nI see why this neandering font format society persists
    at apple and on the web. Can't they take what they need 'n make the best gosh
    darn OBFF on planet earth, including links to OFFs, and leave the future of OFF
    without bitmaps, but with links to them, so OFF can see it's responsive responsibilities
    more clearly, which clearly it hasn't and don't at this time. \r\n\r\nPart of
    that, of course, is in the standards process, where it is the biggest pile of
    fonts that stops the progress. This time, perhaps it should be the fastest pile
    that the progress stops at, instead... just for variety ;)\r\n"
  created: '2013-08-30 13:40:16'
date: '2013-08-17 01:36:51'
title: 'SVG glyphs in OpenType: adding color and animation to fonts'

---
