---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "Where can one learn as much as possible about MS Sitka?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Amsterdam... http://www.atypi.org/atypi-amsterdam-2013/amsterdam-programme/activity?a=297\r\n "
  created: '2013-09-01 16:42:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: In the meantime, I've posted a <a href="http://www.tiro.com/John/Sitka_Size_Specimen2.pdf">specimen</a>
    focusing on the size-specific design aspect of the project. [PDF, landscape letter,
    2 pages]
  created: '2013-09-01 23:05:45'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "This is partly beside the point, but it's gorgeous.\r\n\r\nUnusual PDF behavior:
    it looks good when viewed in Safari, but crunchy when opened in Acrobat 8 on Mac
    OSX 10.6.8."
  created: '2013-09-02 06:19:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I suggest printing the PDF: its a convenient format, but the screen rendering
    of TTFs can still be a bit weird, depending in part on how they''re hinted. I''m
    not sure what Acrobat makes of the kind of hinting we used in Sitka. For best
    screen results, the fonts should be seen in a DWrite environment on Windows.'
  created: '2013-09-02 07:40:28'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "There was a small showing in the type gallery at TypeCon in Portland. When
    I asked Matthew about it, he was surprised to hear it was being shown and said
    he didn\u2019t think he was allowed to talk about it yet. ;-)"
  created: '2013-09-02 13:20:48'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Great thing! Looks amazing down to 4.25 pt!\r\n\r\nHowever, what John said
    is Hudsonese for: For best screen results <em>on Windows</em>, the fonts should
    be seen in a DWrite environment.\r\n\r\nBut for best screen results, period...
    there is no comparison to what one sees on an iPad, yet.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-09-02 13:21:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Kent, a version of Sitka was included in the free Windows 8.1 preview so
    it's available to anyone who wants to install and use that version of the OS.
    So it's kind of already out there. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2013-09-02 17:49:22'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: So, this release suggests that there are or will be Microsoft apps which support
    the automatic selection of the size-specific styles?
  created: '2013-09-02 19:07:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The fonts are built with that intention, but the layout support has not been
    implemented yet. The fallback support requires manual selection: depending on
    the environment, users will either see six separate families in font menus, one
    for each size, or a single 'Sitka' family with 24 members.\r\n\r\nIn case anyone
    is working with the fonts in Windows 8.1 preview, and wants to make size selections
    based on the same point size ranges as implemented in the fonts, here they are:\r\n\r\nSitka
    Small >0 <9.7\r\nSitka Text \u22659.7 <13.5\r\nSitka Subheading \u226513.5 <18.5\r\nSitka
    Heading \u226518.5 <23.5\r\nSitka Display \u226523.5 <27.5\r\nSitka Banner \u226527.5
    <\u221E\r\n\r\nI don't know what I am allowed to say at this time regarding the
    size selection mechanism in the fonts -- the first to be built in this way --,
    but presume I can at least confirm that it does <em>not</em> involve the old,
    dead-on-arrival OTL 'size' feature.\r\n_____\r\n\r\nFolks might be interested
    in the development of the size-specific design instances and the determination
    of the ranges to which they apply. For one of the meetings with Matthew and the
    Advanced Reading Technologies team at MS, we prepared an initial pair of two intermediate
    interpolated instances between Matthew's 6pt and 36 pt designs, and produced print
    tests of a full range of integer point sizes, one per sheet, with overlaps in
    the ranges assigned to each instance. These were laid out in sequence around the
    large conference room, and reviewed by Matthew and the rest of the team. We identified
    two places in the sequence where there were apparent 'jumps', i.e. where the transition
    from one instance to the next broke the smooth progression of optical size increase.
    From this, we determined that two more intermediate instances would be needed,
    bringing the total number of size-specific designs to six.\r\n\r\nWhen the additional
    intermediate instances were produced, we reviewed print tests again, and this
    time looked at fractional point sizes in the transition areas to determine more
    precisely the size at which the smoothest progression could be made from one instance
    to the next. That gave us our initial size ranges and instances, and from there
    we proceeded to hinting, kerning, etc.\r\n\r\nAnd then something interesting happened.
    Initial testing of the fonts at Microsoft indicated concerns about the apparent
    size of the Sitka type relative to other fonts. Matthew had cast Sitka large on
    the body, to give it a legibility advantage over nominally same-size type. Now
    this looked like it might provoke complaints that Sitka was out-of-scale to other
    fonts, and would make it less easy to work with in typical layouts and templates
    that didn't take into account its larger optical size. So the decision was made
    to reduce the size of the type overall, despite the fact that hinting was already
    underway and the outlines were locked. This was done by increasing the UPM setting
    in the fonts, so that the scaling factor relative to nominal point size would
    be reduced. We tested a few different UPM settings, and settled on 2250 units-per-em.
    This worked well for most of the sizes, and achieved the desired goal, bringing
    the optical size of Sitka more in line with typical fonts. But it made the Small
    size fonts too little at their target sizes, affecting legibility. So we decided
    to differentially scale the Small fonts, using a UPM of 2200. This is why, if
    you look at the second page of my PDF, you will note a larger jump in height between
    the Text and Small fonts than between the others.\r\n\r\nWe then tested size range
    selection again, using the new scaling, and arrived at the final range settings
    documented above."
  created: '2013-09-02 20:03:53'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: Thanks for sharing those details John. Interesting stuff.
  created: '2013-09-02 20:35:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sharing is good, I hope. :)\r\n\r\nJohn, you started with a smooth progression
    of 300 .1 pt sizes from 6-36 available via simple interpolation. What needed to
    be smoothed out?\r\n\r\nAnd:\r\n\"Sitka Small >0 <9.7\r\nSitka Text \u22659.7
    <13.5\r\nSitka Subheading \u226513.5 <18.5\r\nSitka Heading \u226518.5 <23.5\r\nSitka
    Display \u226523.5 <27.5\r\nSitka Banner \u226527.5 <\u221E\"\r\n\r\nA size table
    might be better than a link to typophile.\r\n\r\n\"...so that the scaling factor
    relative to nominal point size would be reduced...\"\r\n\r\nI think you mean the
    scaling factor'll be increased. This leap, between the \"brass scale\" and \"glass
    scale\" is now clear? Size table values would be a better solution than amputation
    of the screen range, or you gonna listen to the young metrics sissies with 20/20
    vision forever?\r\n\r\nCan you share the OS/2 weight values? (counting to 12,
    I left my fingers and the possible values behind). \r\n"
  created: '2013-09-04 13:10:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.typografie.info/3/page/Schriften/fonts.html/_/sitka-r197\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-09-04 18:18:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>John, you started with a smooth progression of 300 .1 pt sizes
    from 6-36 available via simple interpolation.</em>\r\n\r\nNo. As explained, we
    started with two interpolated instances within that range, targeting text and
    heading sizes, looking at integer point sizes for most sizes, but .1 pt increments
    in the regions where we anticipated the change from one instance to another. The
    jumps that needed to be smoothed out occurred between the text instance and the
    heading instance, and between the heading instance and the 36pt (banner) master.
    Hence, the final set of size instances added subheading and display.\r\n\r\n<em>A
    size table might be better than a link to typophile.</em>\r\n\r\nThe size selection
    data <em>is in the fonts</em>. It's not a separate size table, but new data fields
    in an existing table. As I wrote, I don't know how much I am allowed to say yet,
    since the spec has not been made public, and the layout API has not been implemented.
    I provided the size range data here, so that users wanting to test the fonts in
    the Win 8.1 preview could check them out at the intended sizes.\r\n\r\n<em>Can
    you share the OS/2 weight values? (counting to 12, I left my fingers and the possible
    values behind).</em>\r\n\r\nFrom a OS/2 WeightClass value perspective, the family
    consists of only two weights: regular (400) and bold (700). The Small, Text, Subheading
    etc. instances are <em>size</em>-specific variants within those two weight classes.
    Remember, the OS/2 WeightClass value records weight <em>class</em> not absolute
    weight, and from a GDI family perspective there are six separate families, each
    with its own Regular and Bold weight class inclusions.\r\n"
  created: '2013-09-05 23:18:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "PS: <em>Size table values would be a better solution than amputation of the
    screen range</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure I understand this statement. If you are
    referring to having ppem size range data in addition to point size range data
    -- such that the former might override the results of the latter at specific resolutions
    --, this is something I suggested to MS when discussing possible size selection
    mechanisms. They didn't bite."
  created: '2013-09-05 23:36:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The site performance went down the tubes and I lost track of wanting to waste
    time, but, ONE problem in making fonts that work optically mastered as your client's
    clients desire is documented here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dots_per_inch,
    \r\nin the\_Computer monitor DPI standards section, look for the word \"hack\".\r\n\r\n\"The
    size selection data is in the fonts.\"\r\n\r\nIn other words, another hack not
    to be disclosed until something worse comes out to make it look better.;)\r\n\r\n\"No.
    As explained, we started with two interpolated instances within that range, targeting
    text and heading sizes\"\r\n\r\nNo, as explained, it was a smooth variation with
    two interpolated instances that too were smooth. So what was NOT smooth?\r\n\r\n\"I'm
    not sure I understand this statement, \"Size table values would be a better solution
    than amputation of the screen range.\"\r\n\r\nI guess not. When one scales a font
    down on the body to please people (who've never held a 6 pt master in their hands,
    so of course it's metrics are out of the box), you raise the size mastering, eliminating
    the smallest end of the original master. \r\n\r\nThen, you try to introduce this
    into an environment with the dpi hack and size master hacks referred to above
    and still, I simply can't wait ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-09-21 15:46:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>So what was NOT smooth?</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, what was not smooth was the
    transition from where we stopped using one instance and started using another.
    The character of the design changed too much from instance A at size X to instance
    B at size X+1. As I recall, one such a point occurred somewhere in the mid 20s
    pt range; we needed something between the initial 'subhead' instance and the 36pt
    master, because the change in design between those two was too abrupt. If that's
    not clear, ask Matthew.\r\n\r\n<em>...eliminating the smallest end of the original
    master. </em>\r\n\r\nAs you note, it works well down to 4.5pt, so I'm really not
    too concerned about eliminating the smallest end of the original master, which
    was <em>nominally</em> 6pt but actually significantly larger than most 6pt designs.\r\n\r\nAs
    regards hacks, I'd love to have a reliable way to target specific pixel per em
    sizes in the wild -- independent of screen resolution and nominal type size --,
    rather than point sizes, which is all the new MS mechanism currently allows. [The
    latter, by the way, I fully expect to see properly documented and added to the
    OTF/OFF specs; it's already implemented in one third party font tool. The only
    reason I'm being coy about it is that I'm presuming someone else wants to make
    an official announcement.]\r\n\r\nOn the subject of pixels and size-specific designs,
    I am wondering if you can explain how the RE fonts behave in this regard? From
    what I have understood of your explanations, and from the description in Sofie
    Beier's book, you are designing on a 512 UPM grid sub-divided into a grid corresponding
    to a particular ppem size (16 ppem according to Beier; is this standard for all
    the RE fonts?). That ensures fabulous results at the corresponding ppem size but,
    given the diversity of screen resolutions now in play, that ppem size is going
    to correspond to wide array of nominal type sizes. So when, on webtype.com, RE
    fonts are recommended for use at 'Small 9px-14px' sizes, that still implies a
    whole bunch of different ppem sizes at various resolutions, and only at some specific
    combination of nominal px size and resolution will you hit the ppem grid around
    which the RE outline is optimised. Right?"
  created: '2013-09-24 01:56:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Right. But Verdana is optimized for 11, works at a whole bunch more sizes,
    even unhinted. Right? right! Unitizing on 11s or on 16ths does not mean everything
    else in whole font is on that unit system. The RE fonts still have 512ths lurking
    and this allows one to organize the quantization we have elsewhere discussed.
    \r\n\r\nPlus, the only other choice is not to optimize to any size, which at that
    point in time would be stupid, seeing that the font were never be comparable to
    Verdana or Georgie, or anything else ever optimized, or hinted, ever. The night
    of the round table, (the long and current age of combined neglectful attitude
    of MS and Apple to the poor CVT, next table out?), has vast and sundry implications.\r\n\r\nThe
    presumed shelf- life of these fonts was four years. . . Which will be spring.
    We have no announcements, but i feel kind of sorry for foundries just adding this
    to their web offerings in 2013... In Spring, what with the MS announcement and
    Apple's developments, we'll see some changes. "
  created: '2013-09-28 21:53:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "But Verdana is optimized for 11, works at a whole bunch more sizes, even
    unhinted. Right? right! Unitizing on 11s or on 16ths does not mean everything
    else in whole font is on that unit system. The RE fonts still have 512ths lurking
    and this allows one to organize the quantization we have elsewhere discussed.
    \r\n\r\nPlus, the only other choice is not to optimize to any size, which at that
    point in time would be stupid, seeing that the font were never be comparable to
    Verdana or Georgie, or anything else ever optimized, or hinted, ever. The night
    of the round table, (the long and current age of combined neglectful attitude
    of MS and Apple to the poor CVT, next table out?), has vast and sundry implications.\r\n\r\nThe
    presumed shelf- life of these fonts was four years. . . Which will be spring.
    We have no announcements, but i feel kind of sorry for foundries just adding this
    to their web offerings in 2013... In Spring, what with the MS announcement and
    Apple's developments, we'll see some changes. "
  created: '2013-09-28 21:58:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "My point is that with the mix of screen resolutions in play and the redefinition
    of px as an absolute value independent of device pixels, it's now quite easy to
    'optimise' a typeface for a ppem size that the majority of people will never see.
    This suggests to me that optimisation might be looked at in another way, and what
    makes Verdana 'work at a whole bunch more sizes, even unhinted', is tangential
    to its original optimisation for a particular ppem size. As you note regarding
    Sitka, it looks great down to really small sizes, despite, to my knowledge, <em>not</em>
    being optimised for any particular quantized grid.\r\n\r\nBut maybe that's part
    of the changes."
  created: '2013-09-30 05:59:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Got the answer to the un smoothness. It was unsmoothed by the selection of
    unevenly spaced master sizes. That was easy.\r\n\r\n\"...what makes Verdana 'work
    at a whole bunch more sizes, even unhinted', is tangential to its original optimisation
    for a particular ppem size. \"\r\n\r\nThe optimization for small size use, lowering
    contrast of strokes, uncrowding single stroke glyphs and all the usual small size
    tricks, gobble up pixels at all ppm."
  created: '2013-10-14 09:52:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The optimization for small size use, lowering contrast of strokes, uncrowding
    single stroke glyphs and all the usual small size tricks, gobble up pixels at
    all ppm.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, optimisation <em>for small size use</em>, not optimisation
    for a <em>particular</em> ppem size. It's a classic evolutionary adaptation scenario:
    deliberate selection for one trait -- specific ppem optimisation that happens
    to be small --, inherently involves selection for a range of traits (lowering
    contrast of strokes, uncrowding single stroke glyphs and all the usual small size
    tricks) that are not ppem specific and have an affect at all ppems. This is what
    I meant when I said that what makes Verdana work at a whole bunch of sizes is
    <em>tangential</em> to its optimisation for a particular ppem size: that range
    of inherent traits can be arrived at other than by selecting for a particular
    ppem size (which is, in effect, what Matthew did when he revised the design for
    Meiryo, taking Verdana off the specific ppem grid but retaining lowered stroke
    contrast, open spacing, etc.)."
  created: '2013-10-14 19:24:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "It could be tangential, depending on the design. However, since most Latin
    type for text has a very clear beat, i.e. strongly suggested design units, independent
    of ppm, and these are at the core of any small size of such type, and, design
    to no grid has consequences in family planning under size or resolution pressure,
    and I was doing both, the choice was, and still is quite clear. \r\n\r\nAnd since
    the beat was there before type, the grid was too. So, for Latin text I'm not sure
    how evolutionarily adaptive I'm being. Since I once could hint extra pixels into
    the smaller results size independently, by controlling minimum distances and rounding
    tendencies, and I now must draw those tendencies into the font, it actually feels
    devolutionarily maladaptive... But whatever works, we can screwed it all together
    as well as the next drill. "
  created: '2013-10-16 03:56:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Excellent comment, David. Alas, you've left me nothing with which to disagree.
  created: '2013-10-16 04:39:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "MS size-specific design selection mechanism now explained in more detail
    (over at t'other place, because I'm still iffy about Typophile's stability after
    recent slowdown):\r\nhttp://typedrawers.com/discussion/470/new-microsoft-size-specific-design-selection-mechanism"
  created: '2013-10-18 20:07:52'
- author:
    name: blokland
    picture: 110274
  body: "David: \u2018<em>However, since most Latin type for text has a very clear
    beat, i.e. strongly suggested design units [\u2026]</em>\u2019\r\n\r\nSee also,
    eh, \u2026, nope, <strong>especially</strong>: http://www.lettermodel.org\r\n\r\nFEB"
  created: '2013-10-21 09:09:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Frank: \"...especially:\"\r\n\r\nYa! especially text, especially x 2 older
    text faces. And that was before 5 ages of typographic flourishing. So, not only
    have the beats diversified as Latin spread and aged, but we're also finding that
    the optimal beat-per-reader diversifies according to age and reader-ability, and
    that a device's capability intruding into the process calls for the capability
    for very detailed beat management. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-10-21 15:46:49'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Before there was a mechanism to specify behavior at different sizes, of course,
    there were typefaces designed to look good at different sizes.\r\n\r\nI had thought
    that the existing font hinting mechanism could make a typeface look different
    at different sizes without the need for more than one master built into a single
    font.\r\n\r\nIt is a very good thing that computer typefaces can now approach
    the behavior of traditional foundry typefaces which were designed to be very different
    at larger and smaller sizes - but the primary advantage of this will be when they're
    printed at high resolution, not when they're displayed on a screen."
  created: '2014-01-17 07:23:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There have actually been experiments with the use of hinting in that way,
    but I guess it was not viable?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-01-17 16:49:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hinting to achieve size-specific outlines is one of the methods investigated
    during development of Sitka. The problem is that the instruction that would enable
    us to query nominal size (as distinct from device size) is not widely or reliably
    supported, so would fail far more often than it would work.\r\n\r\nThe other single-outline-manipulation
    approach would be TrueType Variations."
  created: '2014-01-17 18:42:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What would it take to make the nominal size query reliable?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-01-17 18:51:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: A Mac.
  created: '2014-01-17 22:59:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Assuming by some freak of nature Apple is in fact taking type more seriously
    than MS:\r\n\r\nWhat about something enough people would seriously consider?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-01-18 01:49:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What would it take to make the nominal size query reliable?</em>\r\n\r\nSupport
    in DWrite might have been enough to swing it. But then we'd still have needed
    to come up with a workflow to develop the hinting instructions to perform the
    size adjustments. Since Matthew was designing small and large master sizes, interpolation
    was always going to be key to production. So we'd need to develop tools to produce
    hints that accurately affected intermediate sizes between Matthew's master designs.
    Datawise, it would have been more efficient than the discreet instances we ended
    up producing, and it could have provided a smooth progression across the whole
    size range, but workwise I suspect it would have been a lot more problematic and
    doubt if we'd have shipped when we did."
  created: '2014-01-18 03:37:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "And then what?\r\n\r\nI mean, you have not explained the reliable nominal
    size query on Windows. \r\n\r\nMaking masters for all or any \"point size\" is
    not the problem."
  created: '2014-01-18 14:07:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I can't remember the name of the query. You'd have to ask Greg H. By the time
    we got involved in the project, they'd already determined that the hinting approach
    wouldn't be an option because of lack of support for the query in DWrite.
  created: '2014-01-19 19:45:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Making masters for all or any \"point size\" is not the problem.</em>\r\n\r\nJust
    to be clear: what the last few posts have been about is using TT instructions
    (hints) applied to a <em>single</em> master to manipulate the outlines to affect
    the appropriate size-specific design <em>independent of resolution.</em> So this
    is not only different from making masters for arbitrary sizes, but also different
    from typical use of TT instructions, which are usually device (resolution) specific,
    i.e. applied to rasterised ppem sizes rather than to nominal point sizes, which
    would be the case here. Ideally, it would be possible in such a model to have
    resolution-specific hints applied on top hints that affect the size-specific design.
    So even if the necessary query for nominal size were reliably supported, making
    the hinting to do the work would be no doozy."
  created: '2014-01-20 20:11:32'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Though \"independent of resolution\" hint manipulation is not possible. You
    can hint for two resolutions, the units per em, and the scaled ppm. If that's
    what you mean.\r\n\r\nWhat is a doozy again?\r\n"
  created: '2014-01-21 00:48:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "You'd have to ask Greg and Mike what they had in mind, but I assumed it would
    involve some new kinds of hinting, because the idea was to use a query that enables
    one to check the nominal point size at which the type was being used, and then
    apply instructions to manipulate the outline accordingly, and this would be affecting
    high resolution output. As you say, I don't think this is possible with the existing
    instruction set, so presume some kind of new instructions whose affect would be
    akin to TT Variations. But as I said, this plan had been abandoned by the time
    we got involved with the project, so I don't know what the details would have
    been.\r\n\r\n<em>What is a doozy again?</em>\r\n\r\nGood question. Yesterday,
    I was thinking easy-peasy-lemon-squeezy, but today the word suggests something
    extraordinary."
  created: '2014-01-21 21:24:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Doozy, whopper, something extraordinary. Easy-peasy-lemon-squeezy in the
    d's, would be more like dandy. But then 'a dandy', is more like a doozy, unless
    it's wearing a top hat.\r\n\r\nThe industrial problem/opportunity with hinting
    for optical size, above what I'll get to in a second, is that we all saw the 'Godzilla's
    here' panic, screaming and running around when hinting was required for Windows
    web fonts. So, I hope what they had in mind was automatic variations-to-hints
    vacuforming of some kind, that no one would have to check. \r\n\r\nStoring variations
    as deltas with interpolation of the untouched points, is basically what GX did,
    while also offering all the possibilities for weights, widths, etc. as well as
    solving tricky parts of  mostly non-Latin typography where glyph features vary
    in twining ($), and glyphs intertwine via tables beyond the glyph table (place
    worst graphemaniacal nightmare here).\r\n\r\nWe can get from a relatively tiny
    variation-bearing source to a subset font about the same size as the source for
    the new MS standard. But each time we add a true optical size, (weight, width
    or graphemaniacal option), we add the file size of another font to the family.
    For simple Latin designs, this is not a big deal, but what about a technology
    enough people would seriously consider globally?\r\n\r\nI think some new kinds
    of hints, as you suggest MS suggested, would only be the beginning of getting
    this to work on Windows. I know, the numbers in Windows menus do not represent
    points. That's just the start of font sizing issues on Windows, and font sizing
    is just the beginning of typography, and, it's 2014 now. \r\n"
  created: '2014-01-22 13:00:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Excellent post, David. Hard to disagree with, and not, for once, because I
    can't figure out what you're talking about. Also, graphemaniacal is the best new
    word I've learned in a long while.
  created: '2014-01-26 22:50:24'
date: '2013-09-01 15:31:03'
title: MS Sitka

---
