---
author:
  name: FontDiva
  picture: 126697
body: "I've been purchasing the font licenses for a large ad agency for 16+ years.
  We have over 600 users in 20 locations around the world. This past year, font license
  compliance has become a much larger part of my job , so I now have time to see where
  we might be lacking in coverage. We have a font server, so I know we're in compliance
  with desktop licenses. My main concerns now are PDF, mobile app, and eBook embedding
  licenses that might be required, depending on the foundry. \r\n\r\nFor the sake
  of trying to keep this long post from getting even more out of control, I'll focus
  on PDF embedding. All PDFs are secure, view and print only. Editable embedding is
  not a requirement.\r\n \r\nMany foundries require a special license if the PDF will
  be distributed, such as placing it on a website. We create the PDF and send it to
  the client, who then distributes it. After talking to several foundries, and buying
  a number of PDF embedding licenses, I'm finding most of them require the client
  be the licensee, since they are the owner of the content or publisher. This has
  the added benefit of covering all agencies working on their behalf, they just need
  to buy their own desktop license.\r\n\r\nMy questions are mostly in regard to legal
  responsibility. If the foundry says the client needs to be the licensee, is it only
  the client who would be held legally responsible for NOT having the embedding license?
  Or would we be liable, as well? I ask this because telling the client they need
  this additional license, in some cases years after we began using a particular font,
  is not going over well. Many of these licenses are very expensive. The most expensive
  so far, Akzidenz Grotesk, is $2500 per font weight per client, just to use it in
  PDFs. This license is required by the foundry regardless of whether the fonts are
  embedded, rasterized or outlined, so no getting around it. If we were to use all
  30 weights in PDFs, that would be $75,000 per client! I picked the most extreme
  example, but quotes from other foundries have been in the $10-$20k range, as well.\r\n\r\nI
  believe we have an ethical responsibility to let the client know these specialty
  licenses are required to help them avoid potential legal action. For one, we're
  usually the entity that selected the font, and two, it's not on any clients' radar
  that when we send them a PDF, they need to look into font licensing of all things!
  How would they know this? \r\n\r\nI just want to be reasonable about this, and not
  come across to my co-workers and clients like I'm out on a witch hunt to make them
  pay. I've already been called the \"Font Nazi\", and don't want to come across that
  way. I simply want to do my job and help everyone avoid any trouble. Obviously,
  there are some people within my company who believe this is important, or they would
  not be paying me to do this, but no one has a clue about my legal concerns.\r\n\r\nI'm
  now putting processes into place to provide complete quotes for all potential font
  uses up front so the artists and clients can make more informed decisions when selecting
  fonts. This doesn't help with the hundreds of font families already in use, however,
  so I'm making my way through 160+ different EULAs to find out which ones require
  more licensing. What may start out as a $500 desktop font family for 5 users can
  snowball into tens of thousands if the scope of work includes distributing PDFs,
  eBooks, mobile apps, and using web fonts, all of which are becoming the norm.\r\n\r\nI
  just don't know what to do when I'm told \"the client won't pay for this\" or \"the
  client is going to be pretty upset about this news\". If the client is unwilling
  to secure the required license, do we ask them to put in writing that they are knowingly
  taking their chances with legal action, so we cover our butts? Should we just not
  worry about it, and take the position \"we told them, that's the best we can do\"?
  Can we be held liable since we create the PDFs and send them to the client? I understand
  the answers could vary by foundry. Does anyone really care? It almost seems like
  we're the only agency who even knows these licenses exist.\r\n\r\nI try to keep
  up on the latest font related lawsuits, and I have never seen one concerning an
  embedding license, but that doesn't mean it hasn't happened or won't in the future,
  and I would never recommend to a client to take that risk. I use this info more
  to convince them that lawsuits do happen, and they should take them seriously. The
  foundries obviously believe these licenses protect their investment and provide
  revenue so they can design more fonts. Whether we realized these additional licenses
  were required at the time we purchased the desktop license or not, I realize that's
  the situation now, and I'm trying to make it right. I just don't know how to respond
  to the clients and co-workers who just don't get it. \r\n\r\nI have also recommended
  changing fonts in some cases, but that is almost impossible for some of these multi-million
  dollar brands with agencies all over the world, and files everywhere. You would
  never get to the bottom of it.\r\n\r\nI realize I'm in a unique situation to have
  a job dedicated to this endeavor. I'm both excited and overwhelmed at the amount
  of work yet to be done, although I think we're way ahead of most agencies. Groups
  10 times our size don't seem to have a dedicated font buyer. I've been told repeatedly
  by other agencies working for a mutual client that they took care of all of the
  required font licensing, only to find out they only purchased a desktop license,
  but have been embedding the fonts in iPad apps, eBooks, PDFs, the web, you name
  it, all without a clue!! And these are big agencies doing this. If most agencies
  don't know or care about embedding licenses, how are the clients to know or care?
  \r\n\r\nI would appreciate any insight, or examples of how you have handled these
  situations. Even our corporate attorneys don't have any answers, so I'm on my own
  here.\r\n\r\nThank you. Sorry this is so long! My first post, so I've been holding
  a lot in!! :)\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: There is one thing that may help in some cases. A font can be used in a PDF
    document without being embedded in it through something called converting to outlines.
    Of course, some licenses may not consider that enough, since the outlines are
    a part of the copyrighted font. But it may help in some cases.
  children:
  - author:
      name: FontDiva
      picture: 126697
    body: Yea, this can be a last resort option in some cases. Some foundries either
      don't allow outlining, or require a license either way, such as Berthold.
    children:
    - author:
        name: FontDiva
        picture: 126697
      body: Oops! Meant to put this under quadibloc's reply about outlining the text.
      created: '2013-09-06 16:32:04'
    created: '2013-09-06 16:28:05'
  created: '2013-09-05 21:50:41'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: "<blockquote>I've already been called the \"Font Nazi\"</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBeen
    there, been called that! No one likes compliance or what comes across as inhibiting
    creative freedom when you start talking about dollar amounts and restrictive usage
    but it is rewarding to work through and you are taking exactly the right steps.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I
    realize I'm in a unique situation to have a job dedicated to this endeavor.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt
    may be helpful to know that you are not alone in doing this and it was the majority
    of my job for many years, in publishing rather than advertising but doing exactly
    the same thing. What you may find, particularly if you are working alone, is that
    the task of accounting for and tracking all usages is simply impossible for one
    person and approaching it with a strategy of damage done vs work in progress is
    more productive. You could spend many years (I have) trying to sort through legacy
    work that has already gone out and account for what should have been done with
    licensing, but it would probably be more constructive to draw a line and figure
    out what you should be doing and how it would be best to manage license administration
    moving forwards.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>but quotes from other foundries have been
    in the $10-$20k range, as well.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBeing mindful of the costs
    you could consider a process where licensing is incorporated into the costs of
    new projects; if your business and clients begin to understand to what extent
    it is effecting their costs they are likely to be more mindful of how they work
    with fonts. If having a Berthold font as part of a campaign, if absolutely nothing
    else will do, then perhaps the cost of licensing accordingly will not be a major
    stumbling block, particularly if presented with those costs before they make a
    final decision.\r\n\r\nYou will always be mindful of what you need to do to clean
    up any work where you might have been in violation of a EULA in the past, but
    if you settle on a strategy for compliance in the work you are doing now then
    you will be able to address those concerns more easily in the future.\r\n\r\nThere
    are numerous strategies you could adopt but will probably find that the way you
    use fonts, the nature of using them with multiple third party clients and the
    budgets associated with those projects will dictate to some extent what strategy
    you adopt. One of the most useful approaches is looking at the fonts that are
    used most often and identifying the key designers, foundries and developers responsible
    for those fonts, at which point engaging directly with those people is often the
    most rewarding solution. If you are lucky enough to be able to narrow usage down
    to a handful of foundries then you could look at negotiating custom licensing
    with those foundries to support your usage and only use those fonts (if possible)
    in the future. By posting here you are already (indirectly) starting that process.
    While litigation is a concern the nature of most lawsuits points to flagrant abuse
    of licensing, something you are going to pains to avoid. In every case where I
    have spoken directly with designers, developers and foundries I have been able
    to establish a rewarding relationship and found them very happy to work with us
    to look at solutions."
  children:
  - author:
      name: FontDiva
      picture: 126697
    body: Karl, thank you so much for taking the time to respond at such length, and
      read my full post to begin with!! :) I agree that time limitations, and the
      fact that it is just me, will probably dictate that I focus on new projects
      and let go of the old stuff. It was also nice to hear from someone who has been
      in this situation. You made some good points, and I will definitely save this
      for future reference! :)
    created: '2013-09-06 15:37:27'
  created: '2013-09-06 10:43:10'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Of course, you could use the fonts in a Word document, print it out on a laser
    printer, scan the pages, and  make a PDF from the images when outlining isn't
    enough. But I presume the results from that would not be of acceptable quality.
  created: '2013-09-06 17:38:43'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Scanning printed pages would also increase the file size. and would make it
    impossible to copy text from the PDF. Outlining the text would create the same
    copying problem. (I'm not talking about copying fonts, but just copying a few
    sentences of text and pasting them into an email, for example.)
  created: '2013-09-06 17:50:17'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"A font can be used in a PDF document without being embedded in it through
    something called converting to outlines.\"\r\n\r\n\"scan the pages\"\r\n\r\nNote
    that both of these solutions, however, destroy the actual text content of the
    document, making them unable to be indexed and not accessible to assistive technologies,
    so neither is typically a great solution--at least for corporate marketing and
    communication materials. "
  created: '2013-09-06 21:45:55'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "\"Some foundries either don't allow outlining\"\r\n\r\nHow is that even possible?
    That's like saying \"you can use this font, but...well, no actually you can't
    use this font\""
  created: '2013-09-06 21:46:41'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Of course scanning printed pages is not really an acceptable solution from
    a quality standpoint. But if changing the typeface is not an alternative, and
    paying the license fees is not accepted, it is all that is left.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    when it comes to trademarks and logos, they can be images while the rest of the
    document is in a typeface with acceptable license terms."
  created: '2013-09-06 22:27:27'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>Of course, some licenses may not consider that enough, since
    the outlines are a part of the copyrighted font. But it may help in some cases.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nUsual
    caveat, I'm not a lawyer. But this is not correct. The copyright applies to the
    software, so outlining removes that issue. The design may also have protection
    (patent, isn't it?), but it is different from the copyright and of a shorter duration.
    Must be applied for separately, and incurs a separate fee -- and far easier  to
    challenge, I'd bet. A search among Thomas Phinney's posts might  give the whole
    picture.\r\n\r\nAll the other problems with outlines noted remain -- they are
    pictures, not text."
  created: '2013-09-07 02:46:24'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> you could use the fonts in a Word document, print it out \r\n> on a laser
    printer, scan the pages, and make a PDF \r\n\r\nOr save the Word doc as a PDF,
    import the PDF into Photoshop at a high resolution, then save as a Photoshop PDF.
    \ \r\n\r\nNo printing, no scanning, and you could easily set up a PhotoShop Action
    to process a folder of PDFs automatically.\r\n\r\nIf done properly the quality
    would be pretty good, although you're still stuck with a PDF that's a image, with
    all the disadvantages mentioned previously."
  created: '2013-09-07 06:10:35'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "\"If the foundry says the client needs to be the licensee, is it only the
    client who would be held legally responsible for NOT having the embedding license?\"\r\n\r\nThis
    seems to be maybe the most important question in the post, which hasn't really
    been answered yet. I don't know what the answer is, but let's not get too hung
    up on roundabout ways to avoid embedding font data in PDFs and look at the bigger
    question here.\r\n\r\nI will emphasize, though, that as Charles said, fonts are
    only protected (in America) as software \u2014 in other words, the <em>code</em>
    that defines the font is copyrighted \u2014 and very occasionally by design patents.
    But as soon as you outline the type you are no longer distributing the code that
    defines the font so you are not infringing anyone's copyright. I don't know of
    any foundry EULAs that pretend to believe that distributing vector images of their
    fonts legally infringes their copyright. It doesn't. If any EULAs do claim this,
    I would imagine it would be a pretty hard position to defend legally. And it would
    then be a case not of a breach of intellectual property law (copyright), but a
    simple breach of contract \u2014 in other words, it wouldn't be inherently illegal;
    it would only be breaking an agreement that you signed when you bought the font.
    Not the same thing. But of course, I'm not a lawyer \u2026"
  created: '2013-09-07 06:13:40'
- author:
    name: Khaled Hosny
    picture: 113033
  body: "<cite>If you wish to be obeyed, ask [something that is] obeyable.</cite>\r\n\u2013
    Arabic proverb"
  created: '2013-09-07 09:50:48'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Perhaps the motto of the new Monotype Conglomeration:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"...the
    finest fonts our lawyers can bring you...\"</cite>\r\n\r\nOnce you leave the world
    of art (\"pure,\" or whatever modifier you want), \"use\" is a factor. So designer
    skill -- graphic designer here -- includes the ability to select and use fonts
    that have reasonable site licenses. End of problem.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n(Edit:) a very
    off-topic note to Joshua -- Just looked st your web site. Wonder if you know my
    cousin, David (Ellertson)?"
  created: '2013-09-07 13:57:09'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: (No, Charles, I don't know David. Maybe I should? Googling the name didn't
    seem to find the right one, but then I don't know who exactly I should be looking
    for.)
  created: '2013-09-07 15:34:19'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "(Boy, to really go off-topic in the thread -- David is a set designer at
    the Met. Believe the official title is: \"Resident Assistant Scenic Designer at
    Metropolitan Opera.\"\r\n\r\nI noticed on your web site that in addition to type,
    you were involved with set design. Before becoming involved with type, I was a
    recording engineer, with some involvement in theater, esp. dance. I've long pondered
    the relationship between type and music; they seem so disparate, in that with
    music you control time. Very difficult to control time with graphics. And yet
    in ways I can't explain, there are similarities. I'm always fascinated to find
    people involved in both.) "
  created: '2013-09-07 16:16:15'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "(Yes, I'm actually a professional lighting and sound designer in the theatre
    in addition to a graphic designer. I don't know about time in <em>graphics</em>
    per se, but <em>books</em> certainly have a rhythm to them. As do performances.
    But I feel like we should take this to a different thread, so I'll start one.)\r\n\r\n\u2026
    and now back to your featured content."
  created: '2013-09-07 17:43:54'
- author:
    name: FontDiva
    picture: 126697
  body: "There are a number of foundries that don't allow outlining the text in their
    EULA without an additional license. It might not be part of US law that protects
    the font software, but when you purchase a licensed product of any kind, you are
    in fact agreeing to their terms, which I assume could hold up in court if they
    were found to be in violation. Many EULAs have restrictions that can be difficult
    to follow. I'm finding a lot of foundries going to more of a model like rights-managed
    photography. A license I purchased from Durotype, for instance, required an \"Addendum
    for Large Scale Use\", and was based on the client's yearly revenue. There are
    so many  EULAs out there with different requirements it will make your head spin!\r\n\r\nThere
    are also some foundries, such as Berthold, which require a special license to
    use even a picture, scan, image of any kind or format of their fonts in any digital
    way, such as displayed on an LED screen, iPad, website, etc. With those foundries,
    none of those workarounds would suffice if you follow the letter of their EULA.
    I've exchanged probably a hundred emails with Harvey at Berthold, and have a pretty
    good grasp at this point of their EULA, and their desktop license doesn't give
    you much, uh, license! You can use the fonts in print, but that's pretty much
    it. No PDFs outside your company, and even your printer needs to have a license
    for the exact same version of the fonts you're using. There are 5 versions of
    the OpenType fonts alone! Oy-vey!!\r\n\r\nAlso, in many cases it is desirable
    to have the text of a PDF be searchable online, and outlining or rasterizing the
    text would remove that functionality.\r\n\r\nMy main question, indeed, was about
    liability. A complex issue, for sure, and definitely  hard to find clear answers."
  created: '2013-09-19 21:48:50'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "With the caveat that I'm from the book world, not advertising, I'd offer
    the following.\r\n\r\nFirstly, while I don't select the fonts used in the books
    we set, or not often, the designers do listen. And what I tell them is there are
    plenty of fonts whee the publisher's EULA allows the normal things publishers
    do. An additional license for ebooks, sure, as long as it isn't too dear. Anything
    else, drop that font publisher. There are a lot of fonts out there -- far more
    than the 5 or 6 one could expect from a printer for the first 500 years. And far,
    far more than anyone needs. A marketplace has two players, a supplier and a customer.
    Customer's get to vote with their money.\r\n\r\n(BTW -- There is one foundry that
    has in it's EULA that the content of the text has an effect on the price. If the
    text is religious or political in nature, the fonts cost more.)\r\n\r\nFor advertising,
    where no one will buy the product unless it is presented with just the right \"font\"
    (anyone believe this?), go back to hand lettering. Hire & pay for it.\r\n\r\nToo,
    I wouldn't be too sure what will hold up in court. A license can be revoked, but
    without further penalty. And a long time ago on Typophile, when we were discussing
    the difference between American and European laws, it was pointed out that while
    European copyright laws are stricter in some regards than those in the States,
    in Europe, parts of a license may be  invalid (in some countries) if the font
    can't be used for what is reasonable & expected -- e.g., adding accents where
    the language of a country requires them. This came up regarding a \"no modification\"
    portion of a EULA, but it does show, I think, that while a publisher may put anything
    in a EULA they choose, it may not be enforceable.\r\n\r\nStill, the best thing
    us consumers can do is vote with our money. Just don't buy fonts from such publishers."
  created: '2013-09-19 23:38:55'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I don't know if Charles was referring to my EULA when he stated this:\r\n\r\n<cite>(BTW
    -- There is one foundry that has in it's EULA that the content of the text has
    an effect on the price. If the text is religious or political in nature, the fonts
    cost more.)</cite>\r\n\r\nWhile I do have a clause in my EULA that requires written
    permission to use my font products for religious or political uses, it has nothing
    to do with charging more. If permission is granted no additional fee is charged.
    I just would rather not have my work associated with say, the Nazi party or Scientology
    or the Tea Party. Just trying to exert a little control as to what my work is
    associated with."
  created: '2013-09-20 02:40:47'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Ah, sorry James. Was trying to find an example of  an unusual thing that
    could be in a EULA. I had thought at one time you wanted to make people pay a
    bit more for what I'd call pontificating. Seems fine to me, but they're your fonts.\r\n\r\nCurious
    though, if you allow the Young Democrats/Republicans/Socialists/Etcs. to use your
    fonts, what would the courts then say if you wouldn't give permission to the Young
    Neo Nazis? The legal system giveth, the legal system taketh away. The Great Ground
    of Being sides with the high-priced lawyers, don't you know...\r\n\r\n...Which
    reminds me of a friend who tried to synthesize Paul Tillich and the Southern Baptists.
    He came up with this as a parting phrase:\r\n\r\n<cite>May The Great Ground of
    Being bless you, real good.</cite>"
  created: '2013-09-20 18:06:02'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Well, I do have a high-priced lawyer and he tells me I am on solid ground
    here. In fact when I wanted to put the clause into the EULA for written permission
    for political uses, he suggested I include religious as well.\r\n\r\nMaking stuff
    does give you the \"right to copy\", and legally you can exert control over who
    you give that permission to."
  created: '2013-09-20 18:58:26'
- author:
    name: ycherem
  body: "@Khaled,\r\nGreat proverb, what is the original Arabic?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-09-21 11:58:28'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>If the foundry says the client needs to be the licensee, is it only
    the client who would be held legally responsible for NOT having the embedding
    license?</cite>\r\n\r\n\u201CThe client needs to be the licensee\u201D is not
    a good way to put it. The <i>user</i> of the font software needs to be the licensee.
    Is the font installed on desktop PCs? Then to which company do they belong? <i>They</i>
    need to be the licensee. Because the font is used on their machines. It doesn\u2019t
    matter if it used to create work for a third party. Whoever uses the actual fonts
    files needs to be the licensee. \r\nFor websites (and the webfonts or PDFs [with
    fonts in it] you put on this site) it depends on who is in charge. For every website
    someone is legally responsible. This is the <cite>user</cite> who needs to be
    the licensee of these digital publishing licenses. If the site belongs to the
    client and the client has a license for that use, then everything is fine and
    this is also correct:\r\n\r\n<cite>This has the added benefit of covering all
    agencies working on their behalf, they just need to buy their own desktop license.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    there can also be other cases. An agency might actually be in charge of a campaign
    and register a website for this campaign. Then they might responsible. I believe
    this is what happened in this case:\r\nhttp://blog.extensis.com/font-compliance/rick-santorums-website-using-pirated-font-leads-to-2-million-lawsuit.php\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-09-21 17:43:54'
date: '2013-09-05 21:29:26'
title: Big, fat, hairy licensing question

---
