---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: '&#62; the particular pattern of ink spread, e.g. at junctions, is not necessarily
  something to be revived <BR> <BR>Not to be <i>revived</i>, but often something to
  simply be incorporated, even these days. Certain areas of type design, like newspapers,
  phone books, photopolymer letterpress, small sizes&#42; and third-world presses
  benefit as noticeably from trapping as they do from good kerning for example. Especially
  if the design in question calls for a &#34;crispness&#34; of character. <BR> <BR>&#42;
  In fact trapping isn&#39;t just about fighting gain, it&#39;s about fighting optical
  aberation too &#40;which happens at small sizes, irrespective of gain&#41;. <BR>
  <BR>The best designers do incorprate trapping &#40;sometimes very subtly - like
  look at the lc &#34;g&#34; in Georgia&#41;, and sometimes its absense is completely
  unforgivable &#40;like in Majoor&#39;s Telefont&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
comments:
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: 'I dragged out my Specimen Book of Linotype Faces &#40;aka Big Red&#41; and
    took a look at the Electra specimens. Revealed there, in 8, 10, 11, 12, and 14
    point. The ink spread is held to an absolute minimum to allow the clarity of the
    letterforms to show. These are much &#34;thinner&#34; that the printed specimens
    show in this thread. Also the baseline disturbance is more prominent in the smaller
    sizes and is progressively adjusted thoughout the range. The 14 point baselines
    are hardly disturbed. The hanging or jumping lowercase characters mentioned previously
    seem to have been brought in line. These are quite vivid in the 8 point though.
    I&#39;m suspecting this was a means for creating a certain legibility to the smaller
    sizes? It is fairly characteristic of many of the Linotype text offerings. '
  created: '2003-03-10 20:23:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Gerald, some scans would be really nice. <BR> <BR>&#62; The ink spread is
    held to an absolute minimum <BR> <BR>Would WAD have approved &#40;had a chance
    to approve&#41; this or the work in &#34;Emblems and Electra&#34; more? <BR> <BR>&#62;
    the baseline disturbance is more prominent in the smaller sizes <BR> <BR>This
    actually favors the &#34;technical limitation&#34; theory, as opposed to the &#34;intentional
    design&#34; one. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-03-10 21:24:49'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Hrant <BR> <BR>I pulled out the 1948 supplement to Big Red and there is a
    similar showing, even cleaner but with the inclusion of the Bold.  <BR> <BR>Also
    have the 1954 Distinction in Type Design specimen showings of the various Linotype
    text faces and the Electra is revealed at 48 and 96 point &#40;partial fonts&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll bring these in for you to look at tomorrow. Big Red&#39;s a
    pain to lug around. <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-03-10 22:03:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I appreciate it! <BR> <BR>&#62; Big Red&#39;s a pain to lug around. <BR> <BR>Yeah,
    and to think she was such a hottie before the revolution. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-03-10 22:22:13'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: 'Yeah, and to think she was such a hottie before the revolution. <BR> <BR>Yeah,
    she was. <BR> <BR>Gone a bit further with this. I set the digital Electra to the
    same size as the 96 point shown in the specimen. Ha! Near identical. There is
    very little structural change, and these are very subtle, in most cases a slight
    strengthening of the character! Stem widths are exact. In many cases, crossbars,
    a curved stroke appending to the main stem, secondary stem weights, etc., the
    metal version is a bit THINNER!!!  <BR> <BR>I&#39;ll bring these in as well. '
  created: '2003-03-10 22:47:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'So either the digitboys took a scanner to the largest size at hand, or the
    photoboys took a camera to the same, hoping to get the &#34;cleanest&#34; transfer?
    If so: stoooopid. At least they could have started there but taken some global
    measurements at the smaller sizes to know how to compensate down from the &#34;hi-res&#34;
    source. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-03-10 23:11:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Hrant you write &#34;&#62; The classic standard for beauty    <BR>No such
    thing, my friend!&#34; <BR> <BR>Ok, it&#39;s neoclassical. Francis Hutcheson,
    in the first book on aesthetics &#40;1725&#41; wrote that beauty is experienced
    when we are confronted with a &#34;compound ratio of uniformity and variety.&#34;
    He influence the neoclassical movement.  <BR> <BR>When I did a google search on
    &#34;unity, variety, balance&#34;, it came up with mainly pages from courses on
    design, so I&#39;m not alone in thinking these concepts are useful. <BR> <BR>As
    this is a thread on logic and intuition, I would suggest that questions such as
    &#39;is the design unified? is there enough variety? is it balanced?&#39; are
    useful. They are a way logic can critique intuition and spur more creativity.  <BR>
    <BR>When I read between the lines of Bringhurst, I have the feeling he thinks
    that a lot of the digital versions of the classics were done without enough care
    or thought &#40;under commercial pressures?&#41; and as a result are a comedown
    from the orginals.  <BR> <BR>The discussion of Electra here seems to confirm that,
    big time. <BR>
  created: '2003-03-11 00:31:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; neoclassical <BR> <BR>Well, the Papazian school says that Beauty is
    first and foremost something mankind in general and any individual in particular
    can never really comprehend. It&#39;s not a recipe. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-03-11 02:08:15'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: '&#34;When I read between the lines of Bringhurst, I have the feeling he thinks
    that a lot of the digital versions of the classics were done without enough care
    or thought &#40;under commercial pressures?&#41; and as a result are a comedown
    from the orginals. <BR> <BR>The discussion of Electra here seems to confirm that,
    big time.&#34; <BR> <BR> <BR>Depends on what you choose to hear &#40;or read&#41;
    apparently. If a digital reproduction of Electra looked liked one of those poorly
    reproduced letterpress specimens, would you really be interested in it?'
  created: '2003-03-11 07:16:08'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: 'Gerald, you undoubtedly have a more discriminating eye than I do  <BR>with
    regard to the quality of letterpress impression. And, unfortunately,  <BR>I don&#39;t
    have a copy of Big Red &#40;yet&#41;. To be clear, however, I do not base  <BR>my
    judgement solely on the one example of the Mergenthaler booklet.  <BR>It is based
    on a number of encounters with both fine and trade editions  <BR>on various papers.
    I am not suggesting that digital Electra be made to  <BR>look like a poorly reproduced
    letterpress specimen. I just wish it retained  <BR>some of the substance and vigor
    of the original. <BR> <BR>Let me see if I can offer a counter example: <BR> <BR>I
    feel similarly about the digital version of Caledonia &#40;at least Linotype  <BR>chose
    to call it &#34;New&#34; Caledonia&#41;. I feel that it is too light and contrasty  <BR>compared
    to the original metal Linotype, especially under modern  <BR>printing conditions.
    <BR> <BR>However, Matthew Carter created a digital version of Caledonia for  <BR><i>Time</i>
    magazine in 1993. Now this puts some of the ink back on  <BR>the bones and reinstills
    vigor in the face. It is no historic mimic of the  <BR>letterpress specimen; neither
    is it an anorexic specter. As could be  <BR>expected of Carter, he has done a
    thoroughly modern job, but with an  <BR>eye for the quality and spirit of the
    original design. He recently did the  <BR>same thing with Linotype Monticello
    for the Princeton University Press. <BR> <BR>I wish the same might be done with
    Electra. It would be a great service  <BR>to the book publishing field. <BR> <BR>--
    Kent. <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-03-11 12:40:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Speaking of Monticello/Oxford, is that a great &#34;g&#34; or what? <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2003-03-11 15:46:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Gerald, here is Bringhurst on Electra: &#34;In their original Linotype form,
    Electra was the liveliest of the three [compared to Fairfield and Caledonia],
    though in digital form this is not necessarily so.&#34;  <BR> <BR>Tactful, but
    the implication is that the one who digitized Electra messed up.  <BR> <BR>I would
    much rather read a book in what you call &#39;poorly reproduced letterpress specimens&#39;
    than the digital version any day. <BR> <BR>I think John Hudson had it exactly
    right, above. '
  created: '2003-03-11 16:28:55'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: William <BR> <BR>Well, let see it I have this right. I have a letterpress
    specimen produced by Linotype itself. Very well printed, with minimum impression
    on a fairly receptive stock, with just the right about of ink control given to
    it. Representative of what they would want the market to see. The 96 point they
    present would most likely have been photographically scaled from the 14pt and
    reproduced photomechanically. My scaling of the digital type to that size indicates
    a very near match with only the slightest variations built in to correspond to
    a new printing technology. <BR> <BR>So if I print the digital Electra with photopolymer
    plates I would expect a fairly accurate representation of the original, as a product
    of letterpress. <BR> <BR>If the letterpress process itself is really what is giving
    Electra its liveliness, then it really isn&#39;t a problem with the digital rendition
    as much as it is a preference for the way letterpress reveals the face. But, impression
    and ink gain will alter any typeface. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve printed with letterpress
    for near three decades now. I obviously prefer the printing process. But I also
    have a great deal of respect for the work being done with digital typefaces; the
    impetus &#34;to&#34; revive classical faces, the concerns for optimization and
    legibility. I don&#39;t believe the digital version is the travesty some of the
    folks here wish it were.
  created: '2003-03-11 18:33:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Gerald, yes it may be that the digital version of Electra, if printed by
    letter press - assuming your photopolymer plates have similar ink spread as metal
    did - would correct the problems of the digital version, and get a similar superb
    result. My point from the start was that the digital version should have taken
    into account that almost all the printing would be from computer to photo to offset
    press, and so should get the supurb result by the current common technology. However,
    if Kent Lew&#39;s observations are correct - and he seems to have made a deep
    study of the matter - the digitizer also made the font more uniform than Dwiggins
    had intended, and made other adjustments. If so, I suspect that the result will
    still be not as good, even though the problems with the weight, particularly of
    the thin strokes, will have been corrected by the printing process. <BR> <BR>I
    am not saying that letter press is inherently better, only that the change in
    technology sometimes wasn&#39;t taken into account properly in the digitizing
    of old typefaces. Now letter press can get &#39;sock&#39;, the slight embossing
    of the paper, which is nice. And you tell me, is there any difference in the density
    of the ink in letter press vs offset? To me these advantages may be real, but
    aren&#39;t that big. The main problem is suiting the font to the printing method. '
  created: '2003-03-11 19:36:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I have to agree with Kent on this. Electra is not a soft round old-style typeface.
    It does sparkle more than does the average Garamond &#40;given the same printing
    conditions&#41;.  <BR> <BR>The biggest problem comes with how the user &#34;sets&#34;
    the typeface, and second what printing conditions they will use. <BR> <BR>I truly
    think that Dwiggins would have whole-heartedly embraced the technologies of today.
    He&#39;d have tested his designs under all printing technologies too. He&#39;d
    have wanted his snap and pop by-jiggidity and he&#39;d have had it too.
  created: '2003-03-11 19:42:15'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: '&#34;I truly think that Dwiggins would have whole-heartedly embraced the
    technologies of today. He&#39;d have tested his designs under all printing technologies
    too. He&#39;d have wanted his snap and pop by-jiggidity and he&#39;d have had
    it too.&#34; <BR> <BR>Best not to hold hands with the dead. They might not appreciate
    it.'
  created: '2003-03-11 20:49:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Okay, you have my attention. Tell me why you think this is. <BR>
  created: '2003-03-11 20:55:55'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: William <BR> <BR>Well, I think the designers did suit the font to the printing
    method. If they would have emboldened it to create a faux letterpress look, would
    not that have been the wrong thing to do? Electra is a spindly face, it was as
    a metal face as well. It is just more revealed as such on digital printing devices.
    <BR> <BR>Problem with trying to replicate a metal face with inkspread _in sito_
    is that the gain is not uniform and also varies considerably based on presswork,
    substratum, printing press, etc. <BR> <BR>Yes there is significant difference
    in the inking of offset vs letterpress. Letterpress is a continual gain that must
    be monitored continually. Once the ink grows out beyond the letterform outline
    &#40;not a significant factor in offset&#41; it progressively gets worse as the
    ink is viscous and continues to draw. There is good letterpress and bad letterpress.
    But in any printing medium you would want the clarity of letterform to be revealed
    as the designer intended. In this case it would be as the revival designers intended,
    not Dwiggins.  <BR> <BR>Fournier said &#34;the letter should not be blamed for
    the fault of the ink.&#34; This in reference to the punchcutter versus the presswork
    of the printer. I&#39;d suspect any type designer would like to see their creations
    presented in the best light, would they not?
  created: '2003-03-11 21:50:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Gerald, would you say that over-inking/pressing is much more common than under?
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-03-11 22:04:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Perhaps the best approach is to consider the &#39;spindliness&#39; of the
    digital Electra independently of the metal version. I think we&#39;re too focused
    on whether the weight matches the letterpress, and not considering the more basic
    question: is the digital Electra <i>too</i> spindly to work as a text face in
    typical offset printing situations? Yes, I think it often is too spindly, especially
    on white or very light paper stocks. If the visual sense of a typeface is that
    it is being overwhelmed by the paper, then that typeface it too light to be used
    at that size on that stock. I&#39;ve seen numerous books set in 11pt Electra that
    I would not want to read on account of the weakness of the type. This is irrelevant
    on the colour of the metal type, or the digital printed letterpress via polymer:
    this is something that can be judged soley with reference to the digital type
    as printed offset. Personally, if I intended to use Electra for anything printed
    offset, I would probably spend a couple of days beefing up the outlines in various
    ways. I wouldn&#39;t do this in reference to any letterpress printed specimen:
    I would do this in reference to what would read best at the type size I intended.'
  created: '2003-03-11 22:07:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Gerald. I&#39;m still waiting and very curious to hear your answer.
  created: '2003-03-11 22:11:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Very good point. <BR>But would you also make the outlines somewhat bumpy,
    and the baseline somewhat jumpy? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-03-11 22:13:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Hrant, <BR> <BR>How can you really know, except in extreme instances, when
    you&#39;ve over-inked or under-inked? Could some of this be considered a matter
    of taste?
  created: '2003-03-11 22:24:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I would echo Hrant&#39;s question to John Hudson, but more positively. Do
    you agree with Kent Lew that the &#39;t&#39; and &#39;w&#39; were deliberately
    designed to dip more below the baseline than usual? Does my theory that the digitizer
    forced more uniformity on Electra than Dwiggins designed hold any water? <BR>
    <BR>The slight fuzziness of the letter press outline I doubt can be imitated,
    even if you wanted to. '
  created: '2003-03-11 22:33:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I&#39;m a pygmy at this stuff, but since Gerald might have already started
    <BR>his trip towards Pasadena &#40;class tonight - yay!&#41; let me show you something:
    <BR><a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/joanna_c2.gif" target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/joanna_c2.gif</a>
    <BR> <BR>This is a lousy scan of a novice proof on lousy paper that I did in class
    a couple of weeks ago. It&#39;s Joanna 14 at two impression levels: the right
    side is 2 mils&#42; deeper &#40;the difference of one page added to the stack&#41;.
    You can see how much difference that makes in the letterform: the body on the
    left is not black enough, but the contour is great; on the right the thins and
    the serifs get chunky, and the cusp between the stem and the arch starts filling
    in &#40;long live trapping&#41;. Conclusion: you need the impression depth on
    the left, but with more ink. But my hunch is that when you&#39;re in a hurry &#40;saving
    money&#41;, you&#39;re more likely to just press it harder than regulate the ink.
    <BR> <BR>&#42; A &#34;mil&#34; is 1/1000th of an inch. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-03-11 22:38:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; The slight fuzziness of the letter press outline I doubt can be imitated,
    even if you wanted to. <BR> <BR>About 3 years ago, motivated by the hunch that
    slight &#40;I mean really very slight&#41; fuzziness helps make letterpress more
    readable than offset, I had this crazy idea that all you&#39;d need to do is <i>unfocus</i>
    the laser in your imagesetter by a hair... Anybody willing to donate their Avantra
    for experimentation?  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-03-11 22:52:57'
- author:
    name: trajan
  body: '&#34;About 3 years ago, motivated by the hunch that slight &#40;I mean really
    very slight&#41; fuzziness helps make letterpress more readable than offset, I
    had this crazy idea that all you&#39;d need to do is unfocus the laser in your
    imagesetter by a hair...&#34; <BR> <BR>Not a crazy idea, if you were dealing exclusively
    with letterforms with no halftones. You wouldn&#39;t &#34;unfocus&#34; the laser,
    though, you would merely set the base laser intensity a little higher than you
    would in a normal base linearization. That would give you slightly bolder letters
    and would probably come closer to approximating letterpress process with offset
    plates than anything else I can think of.  <BR> <BR>You&#39;d need to find a pretty
    adventurous prepress house, though, and most -- needless to say -- are not.  <BR>
    <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-03-11 23:43:20'
- author:
    name: trajan
  body: '&#34;I have a letterpress specimen produced by Linotype itself. Very well
    printed, with minimum impression on a fairly receptive stock, with just the right
    about of ink control given to it. Representative of what they would want the market
    to see...My scaling of the digital type to that size indicates a very near match
    with only the slightest variations built in to correspond to a new printing technology.&#34;
    <BR> <BR>Was this printed on coated stock? I would use that and/or &#34;Big Red&#34;
    as definitive examples, since your ink spread is going to be far less severe than
    on uncoated stock. &#40;Was the original Specimen brochure on coated?&#41;  <BR>
    <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-03-11 23:48:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; That would give you slightly bolder letters <BR> <BR>No, that&#39;s
    not fuzziness, that&#39;s just weight, which can be done in the font - no need
    for any hardware change. What I&#39;m talking about is very much fuzziness &#40;albeit
    at the subvisible level&#41;, and you can&#39;t do that with [current] software.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-03-11 23:53:38'
date: '2003-03-10 19:23:03'
node_type: forum
title: Archive through March 11, 2003

---
