---
author:
  name: Peter Van Lancker
body: "What free font do you think children prefer with serious reading difficulties
  (dyslexia, foreign language, low IQ, \u2026). Children are from a Flemish Belgian
  primary school (Het Kompas, Gent), many non native speakers of Dutch (Roma, Turkish,
  Bulgarian). Most of them poor, some of them homeless, many abused or seriously neglected.\r\nPreliminary
  indicative experiments and questioning point at Verdana > Source Sans > Roboto.\r\nThere
  is no budget and no possibility to prevent illegal copying.\r\nAny help welcome."
comments:
- author:
    name: sevag
    picture: 120891
  body: "Being dyslexic and coming from a different background are two different categories.\r\n\r\nCan't
    think of a free font at this moment, but commercial font families like [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/frutiger/|Frutiger]],
    [[http://www.felicianotypefoundry.com/cms/fonts/flama|Flama]] or [[https://commercialtype.com/typefaces/guardian/sans_text|Guardian
    Sans]] were conceived for satisfying the typographic needs of large groups of
    people. There is an interesting article in [[http://www.baselinemagazine.com/browse_buy/magazine/current_issue/contents/|Bseline's
    61th Summer issue]] tittled \"Letter and symbol misrecognition in highly legible
    typefaces for general, children, dyslexic, visually impaired and ageing readers\u201D
    by Thomas Bohm which will be useful to read.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand you have
    the perfect environment for conducting your own tests. All you have to do is to
    print text samples with different fonts and ask what your readers think about
    them."
  created: '2013-11-18 08:15:54'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "I did, on a limited scale, and the result is Verdana. Dyslexia and speaking
    a different language are 2 different things indeed, but most of our pupils have
    both. At least. Local dyslexia groups also advise Verdana. I could not believe
    this at first as I am a graphic designer with ample interest in font design, but
    I can not find convincing counter arguments.\r\n"
  created: '2013-11-18 10:17:49'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "I did, on a limited scale, and the result is Verdana. Dyslexia and speaking
    a different language are 2 different things indeed, but most of our pupils have
    both. At least. Local dyslexia groups also advise Verdana. I could not believe
    this at first as I am a graphic designer with ample interest in font design, but
    I can not find convincing counter arguments.\r\n"
  created: '2013-11-18 10:18:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: There is a free font called Open Dyslexic, but I don't know if it will meet
    your needs.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Albert Jan Pool
      picture: 111860
    body: "\u2026 double posted \u2026 when will Typophile be working at its \u2018normal\u2019
      speed again?"
    created: '2013-11-19 10:57:50'
  - author:
      name: Albert Jan Pool
      picture: 111860
    body: "\u2026 also double posted \u2026"
    created: '2013-11-19 11:01:50'
  - author:
      name: Albert Jan Pool
      picture: 111860
    body: "When talking about typefaces for dyslectics, I think it we should take
      notice that several researchers in this field find it highly questionable wether
      typefaces such as \u2018Open Dyslexic\u2019, \u2018Dyslexie\u2019 and \u2018Sylexiad\u2019
      even meet the needs of dyslectics at all. To me, projects like \u2018Open Dyslectic\u2019
      seem rather idiosyncratic and unreflected. For example the \u2018banding effect\u2019,
      caused by the thickening of the horizontals,  can also be achieved by more line
      feed, or taking a slightly bolder typeface. More differentiation between characters
      (as promoted by the creators of \u2018Open Dyslexic\u2019, \u2018Dyslexia\u2019
      and \u2018Sylexiad\u2019) such as bdpq can also be reached by designing asymmetric
      counters (such as in \u2018Source Sans\u2019) or by increasing the thick-to-thin
      contrast in a more conventional, but still asymmetrical way (such as in Albertus,
      Angie or DTL Argo). As far as I know, none of the researchers involved in projects
      such as \u2018Dyslexie\u2019 tested their own \u2018inventions\u2019 against
      other sans serif typefaces than Arial. Their interpretation of the \u2018banding
      effect\u2019 was not even tested against other typefaces of similar (but professionally
      executed) design such as the widely available typeface Antique Olive or, of
      more recent date, FF Balance by Evert Bloemsma. For type designers and typographers
      it may be interesting to know that our colleague Henk Gianotten got into contact
      with the person who did the research accompanying the development of \u2018Dyslexie\u2019
      (designed by Christian Boer). He asked her if she had been aware of literature
      on the subject of legibility and readability such as Robert Hillier (who did
      Sylexiad), Sofie Beier and Gerard Unger. The answer was \u2018No\u2019 \u2026
      When Henk Gianotten asked why she had not been reading this literature, she
      said that it was because \u2018it was not available in the databases\u2019 she
      had access to. Which is a bit strange, because Christian Boer happens to be
      a graphic designer. The Netherlands are a small country and so is the graphic
      community. Being a graphic designer and not having heard of people like Gerard
      Unger or Gerrit Noordzij is virtually impossible. Especially when you are a
      researcher. When googling dyslexia one can hardly overlook Robert Hillier I
      think. Maybe they simply did not want to know about other opinions on the subject,
      let alone research projects, findings or results?\r\n\r\nI think it is more
      interesting hear what researchers who know both about science and typography
      tell us about typeface design for children with learning problems:\r\nIn her
      PhD project at the university of Leiden, Ann Bessemans scientifically tested
      modified versions of Frutiger and DTL Documenta that were distorted in ways
      that are similar to those in \u2018Dyslexia\u2019 against the non-distorted
      versions of these typefaces. It was proved that none of this kind of distortions
      were of any help. The only kind of \u2018distortion\u2019 that seems to help
      is one in which she changed the horizontal proportions by widening and narrowing
      some of the characters. But this was only of help for children who are beginning
      to read, it did not seem to be of any help for children with more reading experience
      (if I remember this correctly). And (at least in my opinion) even this kind
      of \u2018irregular patterns\u2019 can also be achieved by using existing typefaces
      which already show clear differences in horizontal proportions by design. Examples
      of this are typefaces such as Futura, Gill Sans and DTL Haarlemmer Sans, just
      to name a few. But that has not been tested, so it is just my personal guess.
      I am aware that Futura, Gill and Haarlemmer are not free fonts, I only want
      to point to the kind of \u2018features\u2019 to look for when choosing (free)
      sans serif typefaces for dyslectics and/or dyslectic children. But beware of
      Futura, its single story \u2018a\u2019 and \u2018g\u2019, also know as \u2018infant
      characters\u2019 are often believed to be of help for beginning readers. From
      a scientific point of view, this seems to be highly questionable as well. Here
      is an excellent review and an article on this subject by Thomas Phinney: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.thomasphinney.com/2012/06/should-dyslexics-unite-on-a-typeface/\r\nhttp://www.commarts.com/columns/should-dyslexics-unite.html"
    created: '2014-01-29 12:17:24'
  - author:
      name: Peter Van Lancker
    body: I think "Open Dyslexic" is too ugly. But I maintain the Frutiger structure.
      Thank you.
    created: '2013-12-08 13:11:37'
  - author:
      name: Peter Van Lancker
    body: Open Dyslexic seems too ugly (i.e. not attractive enough), but I maintain
      the Frutiger structure. Thank you.
    created: '2013-12-08 13:15:22'
  created: '2013-11-19 02:53:35'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "What Albert Jan said.  :)\r\n\r\nIf you have any questions about my articles
    above, I'm happy to discuss them."
  created: '2013-11-21 00:06:32'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "You may enjoy this Typophile thread on this topic from 2005 :) \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/14206\r\n\r\n(http://www.kidstype.org
    seems taken over, but https://www.google.co.uk/search?q=fabula+font tells some
    things :)\r\n"
  created: '2013-11-27 01:03:28'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "The article \u2018Typography in Children\u2019s Books\u2019 by Sue Walker
    will be a good read as well I think. She discusses tests of the typefaces Century,
    Gill, Sassoon Primary Infant, Flora and Fabula and questions wether \u2018infant
    characters\u2019 are needed or not.\r\nhttp://booksforkeeps.co.uk/issue/154/childrens-books/articles/other-articles/typography-in-childrens-books"
  created: '2013-12-02 11:36:33'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "Is there any sense in Dutch dyslexia organizations promoting Verdana?\r\n"
  created: '2013-12-12 18:28:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Verdana has an asymmetric, nib-informed ductus, which means that while /d
    and /p have rotated bowl shapes, /b and /d are not \uFB02ipped versions of one
    another. \r\n\r\nI\u2019m not sure how visible this principle is during reading,
    but it conforms to the the idea that easily transformable glyphs can be problematic,
    which is the big gimmick in dyslexic fonts (as noted by AJ above). "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Peter Van Lancker
    body: Thank you.
    created: '2013-12-16 04:25:27'
  - author:
      name: Peter Van Lancker
    body: Thank you.
    created: '2013-12-16 04:25:58'
  created: '2013-12-12 20:07:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Is there any sense in Dutch dyslexia organizations promoting Verdana?\r\n\r\nThe
    organizations supporting dyslexic communities are unlikely to promote any one
    font over another, because there is zero science to support the belief that a
    particular font helps dyslexic readers. They might post something on their blogs
    or sites that make common sense suggestions and recommendations  about general
    readability, or they might even point to anecdotal reports that individuals like
    a particular font, but this is a very, very long way from \"promotion\". \r\n\r\n "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Peter Van Lancker
    body: http://www.onderwijsmaakjesamen.nl/thema/taal-lezen/lettertype-voor-dyslectici/
    created: '2013-12-16 04:22:13'
  created: '2013-12-13 17:42:40'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "On his weblog OpenType.info, the German graphic designer and typeface designer
    Ralf Herrmann published an article by Ann Bessemans on her research project concerning
    typeface design for children with low vision: http://opentype.info/blog/2013/10/01/type-design-children/
    Don\u2019t miss the list of literature she consulted at the end of the article!"
  created: '2014-01-29 12:25:53'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Great article! I saw her presentation at ATypI and was very impressed. Ann
    is one of my heroes!
  created: '2014-01-29 18:26:10'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "I hate this subject. The misconceptions are vast and ignorance is boundless.
    \r\n\r\nEven if there was a miracle font out there which would make reading effortless
    for those of us who are dyslexic, what is the point? First, this miracle of typography
    does not exist and never will. Second, are we proposing a special library of books
    for dyslexics similar to braille? If this miracle font does exist, will all the
    newspapers and road signs change to the dyslexic friendly font? If you teach youthful
    dyslexics to read the this wonderful font, how does this in any way help them
    navigate a world of dyslexic unfriendly fonts.\r\n\r\nThe problem is not dyslexia.
    The problem is the outdated, ineffectual methods used to teach people with dyslexia.
    Non-dyslexics simply have no concept of the organization of the dyslexic thought
    process, and yet they feel comfortable devising torturous, useless methods of
    teaching people in this spectrum. Learning anything for dyslexics is only as difficult
    as the obsolete structures used to teach them can make it. \r\n\r\nThe one idea
    which essential is that dyslexia is not a disability. It is a slight difference
    in design. "
  created: '2014-01-31 05:48:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@phrostbyte64:\r\n<cite>If this miracle font does exist, will all the newspapers
    and road signs change to the dyslexic friendly font?</cite>\r\n\r\nRoad signs
    quite possibly; remember the ADA.\r\n\r\n<cite>If you teach youthful dyslexics
    to read the this wonderful font, how does this in any way help them navigate a
    world of dyslexic unfriendly fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt is presumably only intended
    that they will be helped in this way: they come out of school or the elementary
    grades of school <em>literate</em> rather than <em>illiterate</em>, because the
    process of teaching them how to read has not been impeded by their dyslexia. Once
    that is achieved, presumably they will be able to learn the skills of coping with
    the real world on their own.\r\n\r\nIt helps that while b and d are mirror reflections,
    few whole words have boumas that are mirror reflections, for example. A high level
    of literacy, I think, helps to bypass dyslexia, since now the reading process
    makes use of more of the brain."
  created: '2014-02-01 12:37:27'
- author:
    name: phrostbyte64
    picture: 116005
  body: "@quadibloc The basic problem is the method. Current teaching methods use
    obsolete devices which make it more difficult for the dyslexic child to learn
    to read. These methods seek to make associations in use by average brain function.
    The brain function of the dyslexic uses different architecture. The age old methods
    become a block hamper future learning\r\n  I am dyslexic. I was dyslexic before
    there was a word for it in common usage. When I was a child I was reading quite
    well before I entered school. But, whenever I would read aloud, it came out wrong.
    I could tell the teacher what I had read but not read the words out loud in a
    ordinary fashion. So, she did not believe that I could read. Through the course
    of my first few years of school, they destroyed my reading ability forcing me
    to relearn everything. This went for math as well. \r\n  The current method does
    not teach the dyslexic to use their natural abilities. It tries to force the dyslexic
    into a mold. There in lies the problem. Fit the method to the child. Don't fit
    the child to the method."
  created: '2014-02-01 15:26:35'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> will all the newspapers and road signs change \r\n\r\nDon't know about
    signage, but books, magazines, newspapers etc are increasingly read on computers
    and tablets, and it's often easy for the reader to change fonts."
  created: '2014-02-01 21:41:17'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "\"But beware of Futura, its single story \u2018a\u2019 and \u2018g\u2019,
    also know as \u2018infant characters\u2019 are often believed to be of help for
    beginning readers.\"\r\n\r\nI find that rather funny, because one argument says
    these simplistic forms work better while the other argument recommends as much
    variety between characters as possible, which is the opposite of Futura's design
    principle.\r\n\r\nMy father is slightly dyslexic and I might be too. When I was
    a kid my parents used to practice reading with me every day, though this was to
    compensate for learning difficulties due to Pyknolepsy (a form of epilepsy) and
    Asperger syndrome, though the latter wasn't known then and the notion that I might
    be slightly dyslexic didn't come until quite recently. I've been experiencing
    more issues reading, switching some letters around at times and forgetting how
    to spell certain words while I've always been pretty good with language, despite
    my shortcomings. Either way, I can't say this will work for everyone, but I was
    taught to read with conventional methods and a lot of practice and eventually
    I became the best of the class in reading and writing. Whether I have slight dyslexia
    or not though, I've always been skeptical about the dyslexic fonts I've seen.
    I haven't done any tests or done any research, but I tend to believe that non-repeating
    elements will potentially make it easier for a dyslexic person to differentiate
    between letters, because as far as I'm aware they have a tendency to rotate letters
    in their head (my father even forgets what's left and right at times) which is
    what supposedly causes them to read less efficiently. However, I never understood
    why dyslexic fonts have to be so ugly. I'm fairly convinced a typeface could be
    made which is easy to read for the dyslexic and not aesthetically displeasing
    for regular readers (assuming for some reason dyslexics don't notice aesthetics
    in type). Perhaps such typefaces already exist. Perhaps an exaggerated Legato
    would do the job.\r\n\r\nAlso, although I certainly understand why some designers
    feel the need to design a typeface for dyslexic people, I think the solution to
    the problem has been established before even doing proper scientific tests. I
    also wonder on what grounds these typefaces will be validated by the end users.
    Grown up, non-dyslexic friends of mine often can't say which typeface is more
    pleasant for them to read (this often requires some knowledge of typography, optics
    and human psychology I think), so I question the accuracy with which dyslexic
    children could validate the efficiency of a typeface. And when you hear the people
    involved in these dyslexia type projects haven't even read basic legibility books,
    it doesn't confide confidence in me.\r\n\r\nAlso, I know this is not entirely
    valid reasoning, but I find it odd that it often takes more than 10 years before
    someone is identified as being dyslexic, and yet everyone pretends to know the
    solution for them. In other words, they can't spot the symptoms well but they're
    experts at the solutions to these symptoms they barely recognize. I find that
    odd."
  created: '2014-02-20 12:51:32'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "\"Is there any sense in Dutch dyslexia organizations promoting Verdana?\"\r\nI
    think they overestimate the impact of Verdana's design principle, which is high
    legibility for low resolution screens. Wouldn't a monospaced typeface like Courier
    work much better?\r\n\r\nNow I think about it, I actually think that's a valid
    question. If asymmetry and variety in letter forms is so important, why have I
    never seen monospaced fonts mentioned in dyslexia research? As I said, they probably
    fabricated solutions before even properly understanding the issues.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I just realized something else. Why is there so much time wasted on dyslexic fonts
    when in all likeliness a lot of issues can be solved by proper typography? Read
    this: [[http://uxmovement.com/content/6-surprising-bad-practices-that-hurt-dyslexic-users/]]\r\n\r\nMost
    of these bad practices are being avoided in dyslexia-specific material, based
    on image results on Google, but perhaps doing proper typography in general helps
    dyslexic people read regular typefaces better. I understand typography and typefaces
    aren't mutually exclusive, but progress should be made in all areas, not just
    the typeface. It's good to have a wheelchair when you can't walk, but its application
    is limited in a world full of staircases."
  created: '2014-02-20 13:06:34'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Martin Silvertant:\r\n<cite>And I just realized something else. Why is there
    so much time wasted on dyslexic fonts when in all likeliness a lot of issues can
    be solved by proper typography?<cite>\r\n\r\nHaving read the article, some of
    its suggestions make text more difficult to read for normal people - using sans-serif
    typefaces instead of serif - some are against the grain of quality typography
    - right-justified text, although rivers are bad typography - and some won't occur
    to people unless they have a specialized site goal - specifying colors other than
    the default.\r\n\r\nMind you, I remember when Mosaic displayed pages on a grey
    background."
  created: '2014-02-20 19:53:01'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I'm not convinced by the validity of those practices though. I keep reading
    very conflicting ideas on sans vs. serif in general so I'm not convinced the dyslexia
    research has better results than the typographic research for average people.
    Right-aligned text is probably the best way to read anyway if your leading is
    tight. If your leading is big enough you don't need to align text to the right
    or avoid justification necessarily.\r\n\r\nBut you're right though; doing better
    typography will resolve only half of the issues and will be too restricting regarding
    design choices."
  created: '2014-03-06 11:49:41'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "I think the answer is Verdana, unmistakably:\r\nhttps://www.academia.edu/3006221/Typography_for_children_may_be_inappropriately_designed"
  created: '2014-10-22 12:14:25'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Unmistakably? Yes, within the confines of the test, absolutely. I agree with
    a lot of the tests done there regarding point size and x-height, but I feel they
    fail quite miserably in the final tests which lead them to the conclusion that
    Verdana is the best option. First off, they only compared three typefaces. Of
    Verdana it was already expected it would perform well, Times New Roman is used
    to check whether sans or serif works better but I submit TNR wouldn't be a good
    serif choice for children in the first place so the only thing you might conclude
    here is that sans in general works better for children, and of Sassoon Primary
    it could almost be expected it wouldn't perform as well as Verdana considering
    the /a looks too much like /o, and the /g has a similar shape while it's probably
    best practice to use a double-storey /a and a single-storey /g. They start off
    with questionable typefaces, test them on a rather small group and then conclude
    that Verdana performs best, which was already to be expected.\r\n\r\nFrom all
    the typefaces around, I'm convinced Verdana performs rather well for children,
    but I'm absolutely not convinced Verdana is the best choice. I feel tests like
    these are often done by people who aren't particularly well versed in typography.
    I may be wrong, but that's the feeling I get from this test."
  created: '2014-10-22 18:26:31'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: You know of any other experiments? Science is counter intuitive by definition.
  created: '2014-10-23 09:49:24'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>Science is counter intuitive by definition.</blockquote>\r\nI've
    never heard of that before and I'm not sure what you're implying.\r\n\r\nI've
    read a few but none of them have convinced me so far. I'm still puzzled as to
    how to cater to people with dyslexia particularly. When it comes to children,
    I have more faith in the tests that are being done, but when it comes to dyslexia
    they often start with faulty premises. When you hear about a dyslexic person who
    designed a typeface specifically for dyslexic people which is essentially designed
    to cater to his exact needs, and you then read scientific tests which completely
    undermine the premises this man has worked with, you don't quite know what to
    think anymore. I usually have tremendous faith in science (though comparing only
    three typefaces and no multiple ones from the same category [and possibly worse:
    not testing all categories for sans, serif and possibly slab] would invariably
    give scientific results of limited scope and practicality), but I also tend to
    believe someone with dyslexia knows exactly what he needs to perform better at
    reading. And yet, it's just anecdotal evidence. The typeface this person designed
    should also be tested scientifically with control groups.\r\n\r\nI must also say
    I haven't looked specifically into this issue. Now and then my obsessions lead
    me to research these areas, but I'm not actually looking to design typefaces for
    children at this point so I haven't done my very best to be able to draw a conclusion.
    As I said the tests I have read are either questionable or inconsistent with other
    tests. I don't have enough insight into the matter to draw any appropriate conclusions,
    but I do have just enough insight to suspect that while Verdana may perform wonderfully
    for kids, it's probably not the pinnacle of clarity and optimal reading for kids.
    More elaborate tests need to be done to get to such a conclusion."
  created: '2014-10-23 19:42:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Well, while I don't agree that \"Science is counter-intuitive by definition\",
    I do agree with the principle that I think this was trying to express.\r\n\r\nScientific
    results will sometimes be counter-intuitive, and the whole point of doing scientific
    research is to get at the actual truth in a way that will allow us to find it
    even when it turns out to be not what we would expect. This is why objectivity
    is so highly prized in science."
  created: '2014-10-23 20:55:51'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I'm very familiar with the scientific process, so I definitely agree. However,
    it's not counter-intuitive by definition.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>and the whole point
    of doing scientific research is to get at the actual truth in a way that will
    allow us to find it even when it turns out to be not what we would expect.</blockquote>\r\nI
    think that's what went wrong when the typefaces were being tested. I have the
    feeling they counted on Verdana performing well."
  created: '2014-10-23 21:23:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Those children will have no trouble shopping at IKEA.
  created: '2014-10-23 22:11:24'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: 'Reverse: IKEA caters optimally to children.'
  created: '2014-10-23 23:55:48'
- author:
    name: Peter Van Lancker
  body: "The children I work for don't shop at IKEA. At a later age, some of them
    maybe go pickpocketing at IKEA. Most of their furniture is second or third hand,
    and in some cases inexistent.That's maybe also what I meant by counter intuitive.\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-24 08:47:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "(My comment here is not speci\uFB01cally about slow learners.)\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me there are two opposing concepts of \u201Creadability\u201D.\r\n\r\nOn
    the one hand, favoring the textual content, the idea is to use simple, child-friendly
    typefaces that help the learners to progressively read more sophisticated content
    (measured in terms of \u201Creading age\u201D).\r\n\r\nBut I wonder, why not turn
    things around, and assess \u201Creading age\u201D by how well learners deal with
    more sophisticated typography? Let\u2019s assume that would involve Bembo, Garamond,
    etc.\r\n\r\nIt could be argued that restricting learners to simplistic typography
    restricts their ability to progress, stunting their cultural growth.\r\n\r\nIdeally,
    reading and typography go hand in hand.\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-24 21:53:50'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Well, I suppose with these tests one wanted to gain insight into what typographically
    works best rather than insight into the children themselves. Assessing reading
    age would be on an individual basis, wouldn't it?\r\n\r\nYou have a point though.
    By assessing the reading age one could better cater to their needs, rather than
    complimenting their reading level now. Theoretically they may improve in reading
    performance on the long run.\r\n\r\nI have the feeling this aspect of practice
    will be better for children anyway. I mean, practice is inherent in learning and
    I'm not suggesting they don't do that. However, initially I had problems with
    reading so my parents practiced with me every day, and in no time I was at the
    top of the class and even won a reading competition and later some poetry competitions.
    I bet reading development can be improved on, if only more tests are being done
    that give a lot more insight into reading development and the correlation between
    typography and age. I often feel we pretend to have the best educational system
    that is achievable, but I think we're greatly undermining our abilities. Dyslexia
    is a particularly good example, where many schools still think it's akin to being
    a slow reader or being unintelligent. People with dyslexia tend to be very intelligent
    but just require a slightly different education. Our psychologies need to be taken
    into consideration more when it comes to education."
  created: '2014-10-25 02:22:06'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Neither Bembo nor Garamond is particularly <em>difficult</em> to read.\r\n\r\nBefore
    Century Schoolbook came along, textbooks for children were often set in Caslon
    - and, of course, for a while, nearly <em>everything</em> was set in Caslon.\r\n\r\nBut
    typography is only an instrumentality - words and meaning are the goal. So it
    is natural and reasonable that if a simplified typeface will enable children to
    read texts with bigger words sooner, that will be the alternative chosen. As I
    pointed out earlier in this thread, an increased level of literacy, once achieved,
    can be expected to help people cope with dyslexia, because they will have more
    context, more sensory channels, and so on to aid them in reading."
  created: '2014-11-02 00:29:27'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "just saw this link on TypeDrawers to a recent article on typefaces for dyslexic
    by Chuck Bigelow. It seems that we know something about the role of typography
    (type size, leading etc.) When it comes to typeface design, it seems that from
    a scientific point of view a lot is to be researched yet.\r\nhttp://bigelowandholmes.typepad.com/bigelow-holmes/2014/11/typography-dyslexia.html"
  created: '2014-11-18 11:21:12'
date: '2013-11-16 21:32:39'
node_type: forum
title: Free font for children with reading problems

---
