---
author:
  name: Aure
  picture: 119509
body: "I was looking for the Charter font from Matthew Carter and discovered that
  there are multiple versions.\r\nI wonder if  someone can tell me what are the differences
  between the 3  listed here (in terms of design, not concerning the rights to sell)
  : \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/itc-charter/\">ITC Charter
  (Linotype)</a> (ITC Charter Regular - $35)\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/itc-charter/\">ITC
  Charter (ITC)</a> (Charter Regular - $29)\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/charter/\">Charter
  BT (Bitstream)</a> (Charter Regular - $24.75)\r\n\r\nThanks for your help"
comments:
- author:
    name: Aure
    picture: 119509
  body: "Let me share here the answer Stephen Coles gave me on Quora :\r\n\r\n-\r\nThe
    reason for the two versions is that Charter was initially designed by Matthew
    Carter for Bitstream and then later licensed to ITC. I am not aware of any discernible
    letterform differences, but there are some differences in price, character sets,
    metrics (spacing, kerning, bounding box size, etc), and probably hinting (optimization
    for Windows screen displays). There are also Standard and Pro versions from each
    foundry.\r\n\r\nTo make the decision simpler, you probably want to narrow your
    choices down to Pro versions so you have most of what you need for language support
    (beyond Western Europe) and typographic features (small caps, oldstyle figures,
    etc.) \r\n\r\nSo your choices are: ITC Charter Pro and Charter BT Pro. \r\n\r\nITC
    Charter claims more glyphs at 695 versus 613, but it\u2019s not clear at a glance
    what those extra glyphs are, since both fonts have the same language support and
    typographic features. (They are probably some historical forms and other rarely
    used extras.) \r\n\r\nThe prices between the two versions are nearly the same,
    both for single fonts and family packages, so it comes down to other two other
    main factors: metrics and hinting. I did some quick testing and did find differences
    in the kerning, but nothing major. So the final distinguisher is hinting, and
    that I cannot judge without a system running Windows. Hopefully one or both versions
    have been manually hinted. You\u2019ll have to test them to be sure. (Ask MyFonts
    for browser screenshots! They used to supply them but they disappeared sometime
    last year.)\r\n\r\nThere is also a third foundry, ParaType, that offers a Charter
    with Cyrillic character support. So if you need your text to be read by the many
    millions in Russian-speaking regions, go for that one."
  created: '2014-01-22 11:52:50'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Another thing you should know is that Bitstream made the original Charter
    fonts available as OpenSource. Check the TeX sites. There was some initial confusion
    over the license, but as thing now stand (and as I understand it), the fonts are
    free, free to use in any form, free to modify, and free to distribute.\r\n\r\nThere
    have been non-Carter-drawn characters added by some TeX folk. As always, they
    vary in quality.\r\n\r\nSo. I don't find it difficult to draw up os figs or small
    caps. As we set books (and occasionally pdfs <strong>only</strong> for some high-res
    mobile devices now out -- Kindle, iPad, phones. etc.), I don't care about the
    improved hinting. \r\n\r\nSo the free-to-modify part of the open license is very
    valuable to me, as is the ability to use the fonts in pfs without incurring further
    costs. BitStream is now owned by Monotype, & if I understand things aright, you
    just can't do anything with their fonts without paying ever more money.\r\n\r\nWorth
    a close look, depending on your needs.\r\n\r\nFWIW. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Gerry K
      picture: 111480
    body: "[[http://practicaltypography.com/charter.html|This website]] has a downloadable
      900k zip file containing OTF, TTF, and webfont conversions of the Charter fam\xADi\xADly
      donated to the X Consortium."
    created: '2014-01-29 16:49:28'
  created: '2014-01-22 18:20:53'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "Charis SIL\r\nhttp://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?item_id=CharisSIL\r\nhttp://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?item_id=CharisSIL_download#FontsDownload\r\nIn
    Charis SIL Compact, the \"Compact\" refers to the leading."
  created: '2014-01-22 18:25:31'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Charis is a little heavier than Charter. Sometimes that's good, sometimes
    not. It is also a little bigger for a specified size, but that's a trivial matter
    of scaling. I tend to use Charis more for books to be printed offset at 2,400+
    dpi.  Though if, for whatever reason, the type size to be used is to be a bit
    larger, Charter picks up enough weight to print quite well whereas Charis becomes
    a little clunky.\r\n\r\nIt's with the devices in the 100 dpi region (computer
    screens) where Charter might show an advantage. With, say, 9-point on a newer
    7-inch Kindle fire, Charis works very well indeed. Someday -- I imagine not far
    off -- computer monitors will be high resolution too.\r\n\r\nAlways helps to know
    your tools, and usually, type is a tool."
  created: '2014-01-22 18:59:04'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: Charles Ellertson, thanks for the info!
  created: '2014-01-22 22:55:42'
- author:
    name: Aure
    picture: 119509
  body: "@Charles Ellertson >> thank you very much for the extra information. Concerning
    the \"free-to-modify\" part of the licence you refer to, as I'm just a web designer
    who don't know how to create/modify a font, it won't be useful to me but thanks
    anyway !  \r\nFor the details, I'm actually looking for a body typeface for my
    next book (digital edition only) and I was looking closely to Charter. So it would
    mainly be seen through ipad screen (multimedia .ibook format) but I also plan
    to release a .pdf format.\r\n\r\n@J.Tillman : I didn't know Charis, thanks ! I
    will take a closer look despite the fact that Charles says that in my case (ebook),
    Charter would probably be a better choice ? Anyway, I will try both and see the
    differences by myself. Thanks again"
  created: '2014-01-23 21:34:09'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Oops, I did say it, but perhaps not clearly enough. With readers like the
    Kindel Fire (7-inch), the iPad 10-inch, and even the Android & iPhones, Charis
    is just fine.\r\n\r\nI don't know what the resolution of these screens is, but
    it is 2-3-4 times higher than a typical computer monitor. Again, for my money,
    Charis works just fine, the better hinting of the new Charter isn't needed.\r\n\r\nI'm
    currently working on a long-term project to use pdfs for ebooks. The plus, of
    course, is the designer retains complete control over the presentation, including
    things like margins, word spacing, type size, & on & on. \r\n\r\nThe downside
    is you can't do just one pdf to fit all the different screen sizes. That's been
    the argument for ePUB ebooks all along. But no one ever asked a <strong>compositor</strong>
    what made sense. We have, over the years, developed a workflow where you can set
    a book from a MS Word (or Libre, or OpenOffice) file in a few hours. A fair bit
    built into that workflow, but we have it, and anyone could develop something similar.\r\n\r\nWith
    3-4-5 stock templates and an efficient workflow, I can redo an existing book (change
    only the size, lead, margins, etc.) in a couple hours. So, I can do multiple pdfs
    <strong>cheaper</strong> than the time it takes to make an ePUB2 ebook. \r\n\r\n...Right
    up until there are images or other complexities where the 4-inch phone screen
    versus 10-inch tablet screen size gets in the way. There will be ways around this,
    too, & that's where our work is going (InDesign's liquid layout being one good
    starting point).\r\n\r\nBack to your question: if your ebook is aimed at the readers
    & phones of today, Charis will work just fine. I'll allow I've spent time working
    over the fonts for letter fit and drawn up some extra characters. On that point,
    I don't know if Charter is a better starting point. As I almost always work over
    fonts (for ease & speed of production as well as appearance), I'm not a good source
    about whether the Charter or Charis is better from the foundry.\r\n\r\n\xBFEsta
    claro, mi amigo? \r\n\r\n<cite>Edit:</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't know how the folk at
    Typophile would feel about it, but if it's OK, I have a pdf (161K) of the first
    18 pages of Sherlock Holmes <cite>Scandal in Bohemia</cite> (public domain text
    & one public domain image), set in with Charis and Alegreya (both open source)
    I'd be happy to attach to this thread.\r\n\r\nSet 9/13.5 Charis, with (approximately)
    2.75 pica left & right margins with a 3-pica head margin. Actual sizes will change
    just a bit depending on the device and the app used.\r\n\r\nThis one aimed at
    7-inch Android devices, esp. a Kindle Fire (download the pdf to \"documents,\"
    then import into a pdf app -- I like Aldiko, but whatever... )\r\n\r\nLet me know.\r\n\r\nActually,
    this entire <cite>Adventure</cite> is only 210K, and could then be compared with
    similar texts from Project Gutenberg... Again, not my place to decide what's appropriate
    for Typophile. Somebody in charge chime in, please."
  created: '2014-01-24 04:38:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The problem though is that the ideal font choice also depends on the \"page\",
    because a font's vertical proportions, color and spacing (not to mention character,
    in terms of being a \"supportive\" design choice) are tied into any \"macro\"
    decisions; if you're having to change the margins, word spacing, type size, etc.
    then a change of font is probably in order too. Ergo: Charis, Alegreya, or whatever
    else cannot ideally serve more than a relatively narrow range of situations.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-01-24 06:09:30'
- author:
    name: Aure
    picture: 119509
  body: "Thanks Charles, everything is very clear. In my case, I plan to add interactive
    content for iPad users (web designers are my main target). \r\nI don't know yet
    if I will lock the orientation or not and what to choose between portrait or landscape.\r\nThe
    .pdf version will be a \"light\" and cheaper version without any interactive content,
    just text + flat images for readers who wants the book but don't have an ipad
    device.\r\nConcerning my choice, I've taken a closer look to Charter because it
    was made by Matthew Carter, a person who has done so much for digital typography,
    which is a large part of my subject.\r\nThe better would be to find a typeface
    (or 2) which fits with the format but also the subject of the book.\r\nBut, Charis
    could be appropriate, I have to learn a bit more about his history as I know nothing
    about it. \r\nNote : Yes, I would be interrested to take a look to your version
    of <em>Sherlock Holmes Scandal in Bohemia</em>.\r\n\r\n@hrant >> your point only
    concerns fixed layout (pdf or printed book) but in my case I guess the readers
    would always have the choice to change the typeface + font size on the ipad ebook
    reader."
  created: '2014-01-24 15:40:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Even if some people might go to the trouble of changing the font, you
    still need to worry about your \"ideal\".\r\n2) I'm curious, is there a way of
    preventing a font change?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Aure
      picture: 119509
    body: "I definitely agree on your first point. \r\nConcerning the second point,
      I don't think so. I've never used an ebook that prevents me for changing fonts
      and never heard about someone who ever did it (neither have red somewhere it
      was possible)."
    created: '2014-01-24 18:38:51'
  created: '2014-01-24 18:20:19'
- author:
    name: Karl Stange
    picture: 118040
  body: A [[http://ebookarchitects.com/learn-about-ebooks/non-fiction-fixed-layout/|fixed-layout
    EPUB]] would allow that but is only really effective when you have target devices
    in mind that will compliment your layout.
  created: '2014-01-25 09:49:40'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>The problem though is that the ideal font choice also depends
    on the \"page\", because a font's vertical proportions, color and spacing (not
    to mention character, in terms of being a \"supportive\" design choice) are tied
    into any \"macro\" decisions; if you're having to change the margins, word spacing,
    type size, etc. <strong>then a change of font is probably in order too.</strong>
    <cite>emphasis added</cite></blockquote>\r\n\r\nNo. Thirty years of book design
    has not shown me this. Given a page (trim size) and someone's requirements on
    the number of characters that fit on a page, one might have to change the typeface.
    This works esp. against fonts that set fewer characters per pica in an acceptable
    size (which is not the case for either Charis or Alegreya, but that's another
    story).\r\n\r\nNow adding pages costs money in print editions -- though as \"pages\"
    are purchased as a part of signatures, not as directly as one might think. I can
    come up with examples where it is cheaper to have *more* pages -- and that's why
    some books have blanks at the ends.\r\n\r\nAFAIK, adding pages in a digital edition
    does not significantly affect the cost. Therefore, a requirement about a certain
    number of character per page isn't really expected.\r\n\r\nThe only reason a typeface
    like, say, Charis, would be unsuitable for a digital edition would be the, what,
    \"affectation?\" of the type itself -- I wouldn't particularly want to set love
    poetry in Charis. Or Times Roman, or even Minion, for that matter. Yes they will
    work, but it's like setting a Raymond Chandler mystery novel in Palatino.\r\n\r\nTypefaces
    that work only in a very small size range are almost always the result of poor
    type design. There is something about the spacing of the elements in the font
    that keeps things from working. Most often, that's is from poor letterfit. Sometimes
    simply changing the word space value helps, but that is both easy and not usually
    a fix. Sometimes the spacing problems come from the letterforms themselves, which
    is the hardest to fix. And all too often, more than one factor is at play in a
    font.\r\n\r\nFinally, there usually is a limit in which any single-master typeface
    (as are almost all digital typefaces) can be sized to work well. The internal
    spacing of the characters just won't take a setting beyond X, or less than Y.
    For example (in print), a lot of fonts called \"text\" fonts start to break down
    around 12-point setting, or less than 8-point. But this as nothing to do with
    \"Charis\" it is a phenomena of any single-master-size type. design.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>A
    fixed-layout EPUB would allow that but is only really effective when you have
    target devices in mind that will compliment your layout.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes.
    Though just as type is scalable in a small range, so too is a layout. You can't,
    I think, have a layout that works for a 7-inch tablet an also for a 4.5-inch phone.
    But you probably can have one that works for a 7 & 8.25 inch (diagonal) tablet,
    and another that works for either the 4.5  & 5.5 inch (diagonal) phones. \r\n\r\nYou
    probably need four sizes to cover all devices if offering a fixed layout product.
    I think I can design and execute that as cheaply as I can execute a good ePUB2,
    with similar features. It will look far better, and won't <strong>break</strong>
    depending on device and app, as epub so often does, esp. when you add anything
    fancy. \r\n\r\n& that's the real question.  "
  created: '2014-01-25 15:08:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Thirty years of book design has not shown me this.\r\n\r\nIt's never too
    late to learn the true power of type.\r\nHow long has Vignelli been doing his
    thing? The poor shmuck still has no idea.\r\n\r\n(I'll try to read the  rest later.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-01-25 15:55:12'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>I'll try to read the rest later.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's Hrant.
    <strong>Fire!</strong> followed somewhat later by ready,  aim.\r\n\r\nAur\xE9lien,
    if it hasn't occurred to you yet, asking people who make fonts for a living sometimes
    occasions a knee-jerk reaction -- always negative -- to the notion of free fonts.
    The only free fonts Hrant seems to like are those with an Apache license. You'll
    have to read his posts to find out why, I'm not going into that.\r\n\r\nBurried
    in that 30 years of book design reamark is the following -- much other work is
    working as a compositor with some of the best book designers in the U.S. These
    were/are book to be read, not the AIGA coffee-table books typically found in the
    \"50 Best books\" shows.\r\n\r\nWe learned together what can be done, from the
    days of metal, early photocomp, and on to today. The degree of control -- the
    ability to make minute changes -- has steadily increased, and while the nature
    of spatial relationship hasn't changed, what can be done has, and that should
    inform the theorists. It will take a while, I suppose.\r\n\r\nHere's a place to
    think about, to look, rather than just theorize: For the fun of it, go look at
    books set after 1910 and before, say 1990, when leading was often 2 points. (i.e.,
    nominally 10/12). Look esp. at fonts with significant extenders. Now look at the
    word spacing, and see if it doesn't look about right. Not theory, use your eyes,
    and <strong>read</strong>. Now notice that spaceband values of the time were typically
    a 5-t0-em as the smallest used (actually, 4 units on an 18-unit em), with 5 units
    being \"ideal.\" \r\n\r\nTake the same type, same text, and set it with a current
    fashion, say 14-point of leading (10/14). All of a sudden, that word space value
    can get smaller. Do you know why?\r\n\r\nMaybe that's why wordspacing in fonts
    has dropped to a 5-to-em space -- sometimes less -- as ideal. The new Adobe Text
    Pro Regular font comes as published with a space value of 213. That's about 4.6-to-em
    space. Using the stock InDesign justification parameters of 80-100-whatever, that's
    almost a 6-to-em space allowed as the smallest. And that kind of thinking is new,
    and has nothing to do with the letterforms, which are quite conventional.\r\n\r\nSimilar
    things apply to both to letterforms and their internal spacing, and kerning.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, before kerning a font, I set up a string of works, with a period in it.
    Say\r\n\r\nThe fol. lost many things\r\n\r\nI first adjust the right side bearing
    of the period (after \"fol\" in this example) to get the spacing of that string
    that I want. Not too much, not ersatz \"French spacing.\" Not too little, so the
    small dot dissappears into completely even spacing. I'll confirm that value with
    a few capitals following the period, as well (not just the lower-case \"l\").
    Same with the comma, and quote marks. Then the left side bearing of the quoteleft(s).
    Colon, semicolon, question and exclamation mark come into play, though as less
    common, the values aren't weighted as heavily. \r\n\r\nIn other words, I start
    by getting the space between words that I want, with or without punctuation. Everything
    else keys off that.\r\n\r\nEtc. To me, spacing a font is a mater of words, at
    text size, for books, for for people who read, not admire letterforms. Don't care
    about museum walls when working with type.\r\n\r\nI'm sure Massimo Vignelli is
    a master of all the trades he practices; I'll allow I'm not aware of reading a
    book set according to his designed."
  created: '2014-01-26 02:17:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Your poisonous, entrenched stance against type designers is such a big fat
    target that one can save a lot of time not aiming.\r\n\r\n(But still, I'll try
    to read the rest later.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-01-26 05:03:54'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>Your poisonous, entrenched stance against type designers ...</blockquote>\r\n\r\nNot
    at all. Only those type designers who feel they are a worthy stand-in for Ozymandias
    in his time of power, then (attempt) to instruct."
  created: '2014-01-26 22:54:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The thing is, the type designers you admire actually think your attitude
    is wrong.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-01-27 05:43:46'
date: '2014-01-21 16:14:38'
node_type: forum
title: Charter ITC / Bitstream ?

---
