---
author:
  name: Martin Silvertant
  picture: 118818
body: "Hello, I'm working on a custom typeface for a Dutch design company and I just
  came across some problems I have no idea how to fix. Here's a part of the error
  messages I get:\r\n[WARNING] <MelkSans-Bold> Use of DFLT tag has been deprecated.
  It will work, but please use 'dflt' instead. [C:/Users/Martin/Documents/FontLab/Studio5/fontlab.fea
  48]\r\n[ERROR] <MelkSans-Bold> If you don't want feature 'cpsp' registered under
  all the language systems you specified earlier on in the feature file by the \"languagesystem\"
  keyword, you must start this feature with an explicit \"script\" statement [C:/Users/Martin/Documents/FontLab/Studio5/fontlab.fea
  84]\r\n[ERROR] <MelkSans-Bold> If you don't want feature 'cpsp' registered under
  all the language systems you specified earlier on in the feature file by the \"languagesystem\"
  keyword, you must start this feature with an explicit \"script\" statement [C:/Users/Martin/Documents/FontLab/Studio5/fontlab.fea
  86]\r\n[ERROR] <MelkSans-Bold> If you don't want feature 'cpsp' registered under
  all the language systems you specified earlier on in the feature file by the \"languagesystem\"
  keyword, you must start this feature with an explicit \"script\" statement [C:/Users/Martin/Documents/FontLab/Studio5/fontlab.fea
  88]\r\n...\r\netcetera.\r\n\r\n[FATAL] <MelkSans-Bold> aborting because of errors\r\n\r\n\r\nSo,
  what's going on here, how do I fix it and what's it trying to abort anyway? I'm
  able to generate a TT font, which features pixelated edges compared to an older
  version of the font I was able to generate in OTF format. I'm assuming the fact
  I can't generate OTF right now has to do with the errors. I have to have 2 fonts
  of the typeface finished by the end of the week so it's really appreciated if you
  can help me out with this. Can someone also tell me what I'm doing by specifying
  Greek, Latin and Romanian in the script? I assumed I need to specify Romanian to
  replace some accented characters, but I don't need Greek. I'm working on full language
  support for Latin.\r\n\r\nHere's an example of the script I'm working with:\r\n\r\nfeature
  clig {\r\n # DEFAULT\r\n    sub I J by Y.alt1;\r\n    sub I j by Y.alt1;\r\n    sub
  T h by T_h;\r\n    sub a e by ae;\r\n    sub a.alt1 e by ae;\r\n    sub f f by f_f;\r\n
  \   sub f i by f_i;\r\n    sub f f i by f_f_i;\r\n    sub f j by f_j;\r\n    sub
  f f j by f_f_j;\r\n    sub f l by f_l;\r\n    sub f f l by f_f_l;\r\n    sub f t
  by f_t;\r\n    sub f f t by f_f_t;\r\n    sub f question by f_question;\r\n    sub
  f question.alt1 by f_question.alt1;\r\n    sub f_f question by f_f_question;\r\n
  \   sub f_f question.alt1 by f_f_question.alt1;\r\n    sub g g by g_g;\r\n    sub
  i j by i_j;\r\n    sub f i j by f_i_j;\r\n    sub r r by r_r;\r\n    sub t t by
  t_t;\r\n    sub period period period by ellipsis;\r\n    sub comma hyphen by comma_endash;\r\n
  \   sub comma endash by comma_endash;\r\n script grek; # Greek\r\n    sub I J by
  Y.alt1;\r\n    sub I j by Y.alt1;\r\n    sub T h by T_h;\r\n    sub a e by ae;\r\n
  \   sub a.alt1 e by ae;\r\n    sub f f by f_f;\r\n    sub f i by f_i;\r\n    sub
  f f i by f_f_i;\r\n    sub f j by f_j;\r\n    sub f f j by f_f_j;\r\n    sub f l
  by f_l;\r\n    sub f f l by f_f_l;\r\n    sub f t by f_t;\r\n    sub f f t by f_f_t;\r\n
  \   sub f question by f_question;\r\n    sub f question.alt1 by f_question.alt1;\r\n
  \   sub f_f question by f_f_question;\r\n    sub f_f question.alt1 by f_f_question.alt1;\r\n
  \   sub g g by g_g;\r\n    sub i j by i_j;\r\n    sub f i j by f_i_j;\r\n    sub
  r r by r_r;\r\n    sub t t by t_t;\r\n    sub period period period by ellipsis;\r\n
  \   sub comma hyphen by comma_endash;\r\n    sub comma endash by comma_endash;\r\n
  script latn; # Latin\r\n    sub I J by Y.alt1;\r\n    sub I j by Y.alt1;\r\n    sub
  T h by T_h;\r\n    sub a e by ae;\r\n    sub a.alt1 e by ae;\r\n    sub f f by f_f;\r\n
  \   sub f i by f_i;\r\n    sub f f i by f_f_i;\r\n    sub f j by f_j;\r\n    sub
  f f j by f_f_j;\r\n    sub f l by f_l;\r\n    sub f f l by f_f_l;\r\n    sub f t
  by f_t;\r\n    sub f f t by f_f_t;\r\n    sub f question by f_question;\r\n    sub
  f question.alt1 by f_question.alt1;\r\n    sub f_f question by f_f_question;\r\n
  \   sub f_f question.alt1 by f_f_question.alt1;\r\n    sub g g by g_g;\r\n    sub
  i j by i_j;\r\n    sub f i j by f_i_j;\r\n    sub r r by r_r;\r\n    sub t t by
  t_t;\r\n    sub period period period by ellipsis;\r\n    sub comma hyphen by comma_endash;\r\n
  \   sub comma endash by comma_endash;\r\n    language ROM ; # Romanian\r\n} clig;"
comments:
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Try putting this in the OT Panel at the bottom right:\r\n\r\nlanguagesystem
    DFLT dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;\r\n\r\nI would also remove the statements
    referring to Greek and Romanian since they don't seem to be doing anything and/or
    don't make sense. (There are no Greek characters affected, and nothing following
    the Romanian statement. I can only see statements affecting Latin characters.)\r\n\r\nAlso,
    clig is for contextual ligatures and all of these are simple substations, not
    contextual. So, change the feature to liga, instead of clig."
  created: '2014-02-20 04:02:36'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "The languagesystem scripts were included, plus one for Greek and Romanian.
    I just forgot to include those here.\r\n\r\nGreek I don't need, but I figured
    I might need Romanian. Aren't some cedillas different in Romanian from the Latin
    set? I remember something like that from a font I manually scripted a few years
    ago. This time I used an existing typeface's script to save time.\r\n\r\nAs for
    clig, actually these are all contextual ligatures. I also have regular ligatures,
    discretionary ligatures and alternates, but in clig I have a specific set of contextual
    alternates.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I'm still getting the same list of errors."
  created: '2014-02-20 13:25:27'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I just noticed a locl class with the following script:\r\nfeature locl {
    # Localized Forms\r\n script latn; # Latin\r\n language ROM  exclude_dflt; # Romanian\r\n
    \   sub [Scedilla Tcedilla scedilla tcedilla] by [Scommaaccent Tcommaaccent scommaaccent
    tcommaaccent];\r\n} locl;\r\n\r\nCan I remove the Romanian code from the other
    classes or do I still need to specify Romanian to make the locl class work?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    do I need to specify Latin when the same script is already in DEFAULT? Do I need
    to specify it to make locl work?"
  created: '2014-02-20 13:33:35'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Never mind. I removed all codes which weren't DEFAULT and most errors are
    fixed now. The only issue which remains is that it tries to find .sc characters
    but I have no small caps and I also removed the caps2sc and sc classes. How do
    I stop it from trying to find these missing characters?
  created: '2014-02-20 13:44:01'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I get these two messages currently (both alternating):\r\n\r\n[FATAL] <Melk
    Sans Extra Light> aborting because of errors:\r\nsyntax error at \"@_A1\"\r\n[C:/Users/Martin/Documents/FontLab/Studio5/fontlab.fea
    1]\r\n\r\nMissing glyph: a.sc\r\nMissing glyph: aacute.sc\r\nMissing glyph: abreve.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: acircumflex.sc\r\nMissing glyph: adieresis.sc\r\nMissing glyph: agrave.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: amacron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: aogonek.sc\r\nMissing glyph: aring.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: atilde.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ae.sc\r\nMissing glyph: b.sc\r\nMissing glyph:
    d.sc\r\nMissing glyph: eth.sc\r\nMissing glyph: dcaron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: dcroat.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: o.sc\r\nMissing glyph: oacute.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ocircumflex.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: odieresis.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ograve.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ohungarumlaut.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: omacron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: oslash.sc\r\nMissing glyph: otilde.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: q.sc\r\nMissing glyph: germandbls.sc\r\nMissing glyph: c.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: cacute.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ccaron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ccedilla.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: cdotaccent.sc\r\nMissing glyph: g.sc\r\nMissing glyph: gbreve.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: gcommaaccent.sc\r\nMissing glyph: gdotaccent.sc\r\nMissing glyph: oe.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: h.sc\r\nMissing glyph: hbar.sc\r\nMissing glyph: k.sc\r\nMissing glyph:
    kcommaaccent.sc\r\nMissing glyph: m.sc\r\nMissing glyph: n.sc\r\nMissing glyph:
    nacute.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ncaron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ncommaaccent.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: eng.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ntilde.sc\r\nMissing glyph: p.sc\r\nMissing glyph:
    thorn.sc\r\nMissing glyph: r.sc\r\nMissing glyph: racute.sc\r\nMissing glyph:
    rcaron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: rcommaaccent.sc\r\nMissing glyph: e.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: eacute.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ecaron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ecircumflex.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: edieresis.sc\r\nMissing glyph: edotaccent.sc\r\nMissing glyph: egrave.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: emacron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: eogonek.sc\r\nMissing glyph: f.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: i.sc\r\nMissing glyph: dotlessi.sc\r\nMissing glyph: iacute.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: icircumflex.sc\r\nMissing glyph: idieresis.sc\r\nMissing glyph: igrave.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: imacron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: iogonek.sc\r\nMissing glyph: j.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: l.sc\r\nMissing glyph: lacute.sc\r\nMissing glyph: lcaron.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: lcommaaccent.sc\r\nMissing glyph: lslash.sc\r\nMissing glyph: t.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: tbar.sc\r\nMissing glyph: tcaron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: tcedilla.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: tcommaaccent.sc\r\nMissing glyph: u.sc\r\nMissing glyph: uacute.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: ucircumflex.sc\r\nMissing glyph: udieresis.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ugrave.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: uhungarumlaut.sc\r\nMissing glyph: umacron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: uogonek.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: uring.sc\r\nMissing glyph: v.sc\r\nMissing glyph: w.sc\r\nMissing glyph:
    wacute.sc\r\nMissing glyph: wcircumflex.sc\r\nMissing glyph: wdieresis.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: wgrave.sc\r\nMissing glyph: y.sc\r\nMissing glyph: yacute.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: ycircumflex.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ydieresis.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ygrave.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: Scaron\r\nMissing glyph: s.sc\r\nMissing glyph: sacute.sc\r\nMissing glyph:
    scaron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: scedilla.sc\r\nMissing glyph: scommaaccent.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: x.sc\r\nMissing glyph: z.sc\r\nMissing glyph: zacute.sc\r\nMissing glyph:
    zcaron.sc\r\nMissing glyph: zdotaccent.sc\r\nMissing glyph: cent.osf\r\nMissing
    glyph: exclam.sc\r\nMissing glyph: exclamdown.sc\r\nMissing glyph: question.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: questiondown.sc\r\nMissing glyph: parenleft.sc\r\nMissing glyph: parenright.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: cent.sc\r\nMissing glyph: ampersand.sc\r\nMissing glyph: acute.sc\r\nMissing
    glyph: hungarumlaut.sc\r\n[FATAL] <Melk Sans Extra Light> aborting because of
    errors:\r\nsyntax error at \"feature\"\r\n[C:/Users/Martin/Documents/FontLab/Studio5/fontlab.fea
    65]"
  created: '2014-02-20 13:52:59'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "You apparently have a class called _A1 that contains references to those
    glyphs. Remove those glyph names from that class (or remove the class if that's
    all it contains).\r\n\r\nAlso, there's really only one error there. The second
    error message is a consequence of the first one."
  created: '2014-02-21 01:22:06'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: I don't see such a class anywhere. I'm still stuck. Could someone have a look
    at my file?
  created: '2014-03-10 03:33:54'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Probably Mark Simonson is onto something, whether you can spot it or not.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, your clig statements are all messed up. First of all, as Mark says, they're
    not contextual, as written. Secondly, remember that instructions are performed
    in the order they're given. So with the order you have:\r\n\r\nsub f f by f_f;\r\nsub
    f i by f_i;\r\nsub f f i by f_f_i;\r\n\r\nthe string \"f f i\" will never be found,
    because you've already changed part of that string, \"f f\" (i.e., a portion the
    string  \"f f i\") to f_f.\r\n\r\nEtc.\r\n\r\nYou have to do it the other way,
    with the f f i  statement first.\r\n\r\nHere's a portion of the clig description
    (emphasis added)\r\n\r\n<blockquote> Example: The glyph for ft replaces the sequence
    f t in Bickham Script, <strong>except</strong> when preceded by an ascending letter.</blockquote>
    \r\n\r\n<blockquote> Recommended implementation: The clig table maps sequences
    of glyphs to corresponding ligatures in a chained context (GSUB lookup type 8).
    <strong>Ligatures with more components must be stored ahead of those with fewer
    components in order to be found.</strong> The set of contextual ligatures will
    vary by design and script.</blockquote> \r\n\r\nI'd remark that the usual way
    to debug a long list of statements is to cut things in half, and try each half.
    Keep cutting until things compile without errors. If you're lucky, you'll spot
    it. Safest is to just add one more statement at a time. And if the rest of your
    code is as scrambled as clig, I'd just start with one statement, get it to compile,
    then add each, one at a time. \r\n\r\nLong ago & far away, I had to do logical
    proofs -- passed my PhD prelims in math logic. When I used the techniques learned
    there in trying to debug even little programs, my business partner -- a proper
    engineer -- finally convinced me of the error of my ways. He succeeded in large
    part because I kept failing, trying to be \"logical...\" \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-10 05:53:14'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Thanks a lot for the tips. I will do as you said.\r\n\r\nI really have to
    clarify your statement about contextual ligatures though. I'm certain they ARE
    contextual ligatures. How can you tell me they're not contextual ligatures without
    having seen the design? I have standard ligatures with connected letters and contextual
    ligatures which feature an /f with a shortened terminal to improve the spacing
    without having to rely on genuine ligatures which may be obtrusive or unwanted
    in some contexts. If I'm still wrong about considering these contextual ligatures
    I would like to hear why."
  created: '2014-03-10 09:02:09'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: By the way, I manually scripted a font a few years back but since I was on
    a tight deadline I thought I would safe time by using the script of an existing
    font. Turns out this wasn't a good idea as there seem to be some connections between
    glyphs and scripts I'm not noticing. It would have been cleaner to do it manually.
    Re-doing the script seems the way to go.
  created: '2014-03-10 09:04:48'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Alright, I removed all scripts and compiled it and I'm still getting the same
    list of errors; it's still trying to find smallcaps although there are no smallcaps
    and no class for it. I'm starting to think that my script is actually correct,
    except for the order I put the ligatures in. Any thoughts?
  created: '2014-03-10 09:58:04'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Where to start?\r\n\r\nIt might be easier, if you are on deadline, to send
    your fonts so someone who can make the OpenType fearures work (and no, I don't
    do that work.) Many of the larger font publishers work this way, Adobe, FontFont,
    etc. You don't think Slimbach writes all the features for his fonts, do you?\r\n\r\n*
    * *\r\n\r\nI say they are not contextual because you have not included the context
    as a part of the substitution statement. OpenType features code is pretty simple
    in the sense that everything happens \"right now.\" The items to be included in
    the substitution must be given in their entirety in the statement, as they exist
    \"right now\" -- as the instruction is processed.  \r\n\r\nAnd the order matters.
    So, if you have liga before clig, much of the \"ligaturing\" you're attempting
    in clig won't happen, because there will be no longer be any f i, f f i, etc.
    And if you put clig first, then what's available for liga to work on will be affected,
    of course.\r\n\r\nIf you're working entirely in FontLab -- I suppose you know
    you can write off the features file, then alter it in a text editor, then read
    it back in to FL. I'd recommend that. I, anyway, also make sure all my classes
    are in that .fea file, then delete the \"classses\" from the FontLab vfb. This
    way, I have one file where everything is contained, and if I make a change to
    either an OT feature or class, when I bring the fie back into FontLab, I don't
    create an unintended conflict.\r\n\r\nHow I'd start if I had to work on your font,
    starting now. \r\n\r\n1. Make a copy  of the FoltLab .vfb, and work on that. Don't
    risk you original files.\r\n\r\n2. Write off all the features (making sure the
    classes are contained) to a plain text  .fea file. Clear the features and clases
    from FontLab; all you now have are the glyphs. See if you can generate a font.
    That's the starting point.\r\n\r\n3. Now add one thing at a time -- make up a
    small, test, \".fea\" file. One feature only. Make sure any feature you put in
    it has all the classes it needs -- i.e., pair the classes in \"test\" to the features
    in \"test.\r\n\r\n4. Read the \"test.fea\" back into Fontlab.  At first anyway,
    both compile the features and generate a font to test that all is well. \r\n\r\n5.
    Keep adding things one at a time. You will soon discover what's not working."
  created: '2014-03-10 14:05:39'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I'm not on a tight deadline anymore. I was supposed to deliver two working
    fonts with a basic set, and I did. Still, I obviously would like to get the OpenType
    features to work as soon as possible, because I do have to send updates on the
    fonts.\r\n\r\n\"I say they are not contextual because you have not included the
    context as a part of the substitution statement.\"\r\nWhat do you mean by this?
    \r\n\r\n\"So, if you have liga before clig, much of the \"ligaturing\" you're
    attempting in clig won't happen, because there will be no longer be any f i, f
    f i, etc.\"\r\nActually I got all of that to work in a previous font. I did do
    the order of the ligatures correctly, but I don't think I paid specific attention
    to the order of the ligature classes. Perhaps I accidentally got the order right
    though. In any case, this will probably avoid a lot of frustration.\r\n\r\n\"I,
    anyway, also make sure all my classes are in that .fea file, then delete the \"classses\"
    from the FontLab vfb.\"\r\nI think I'm confusing features with classes. I hope
    so, because that will explain why my font keeps searching for small caps. I removed
    all features, but I guess I need to check classes as well.\r\n\r\nSo I checked
    the classes and removed a few and I think my problem is solved. I will put the
    features back in later and see if it all still works.\r\n\r\n\r\nSo, thanks a
    lot for the help. I was also wondering, when I change diacritics, some don't update
    to the letters and when I change the a plain letter, not all instances of that
    letter with diacritics are updated. I assume this is an issue with the classes?
    I find the class system to be confusing. I would follow a lot more tutorials on
    Fontlab but there are so few.\r\n\r\nAlso, how do you go about making tabular
    figures? I have the design done and the glyphs are in FontLab but I put each number
    in the glyph window individually, and so the spacing isn't consistent throughout
    all figure sets. Is there a way to simply copy the default and oldstyle sets and
    make them tabular automatically? Or should I first create the tabular sets, copy
    those and modify the spacing for the proportional sets?"
  created: '2014-03-10 17:54:13'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "A contextual ligature goes like this: If these glyphs are preceded/followed
    by certain other glyphs (or glyph), substitute with this ligature glyph. \r\n\r\nA
    normal ligature goes like this: substitute these glyphs with this ligature glyph.\r\n\r\nEvery
    one of your \"contextual\" ligatures is just a normal non-contextual ligature,
    which should be placed in the liga feature. For what it's worth, contextual ligatures
    are rare in fonts, mostly used when you are trying to simulate very complex scripts.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    tabular figures, basically you need to make copies of your existing figures and
    modify them."
  created: '2014-03-11 23:56:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\" I was also wondering, when I change diacritics, some don't update to the
    letters and when I change the a plain letter, not all instances of that letter
    with diacritics are updated. I assume this is an issue with the classes?\"\r\n\r\nAre
    all your accented glyphs created by means of composites? That's the key thing.
    If some of them have the base letter or the accent or both decomposed, that could
    cause the problem.\r\n\r\n\"Is there a way to simply copy the default and oldstyle
    sets and make them tabular automatically?\"\r\n\r\nNot currently built into FontLab
    Studio. The Remix Tools (a paid add-on for FontLab) have this feature. http://remix-tools.com/monospacer\r\nBut
    probably only worth buying the Remix tools if you find their other features valuable,
    just doing tabular numbers is a nice but minor feature.\r\n\r\n\"Or should I first
    create the tabular sets, copy those and modify the spacing for the proportional
    sets?\"\r\n\r\nSure, or the other way around. Keep the glyphs as composites so
    that any change in the design of the base glyphs affects the other set as well.
    Also, in some typefaces, you might want to make the proportional and tabular \"one\"
    different designs."
  created: '2014-03-11 23:56:49'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<cite>Every one of your \"contextual\" ligatures is just a normal non-contextual
    ligature\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm still not convinced. I know what a contextual ligature
    is. This is how it works in a serif typeface, and this is exactly the kind of
    thing I'm doing in my typeface:\r\nhttp://www.motaitalic.com/typefoundry/fonts/vesper/contextual-alternates\r\n\r\nIt's
    a very different set of ligatures from the standard ones. How would I even script
    it if I were to put both sets in the same ligature set?\r\n\r\n<cite>A contextual
    ligature goes like this: If these glyphs are preceded/followed by certain other
    glyphs (or glyph), substitute with this ligature glyph.</cite>\r\n\r\nDoes that
    mean I coded it wrong? The output seems to be the same though."
  created: '2014-03-12 20:58:16'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<cite>Are all your accented glyphs created by means of composites?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    don't know. How can I check and how can I make all accented characters adhere
    to their master characters and add diacritics automatically from the ones I already
    designed? Sometimes when I delete an accented letter (\xEA) and the box remains
    empty and I double click, the letter (\xEA) is created automatically from the
    standard letter (e) and the accent (^), but other times it's not. I'm wondering
    where the inconsistency comes from.\r\n\r\nAnd unfortunately I still can't compile
    without errors and generate an otf file. I deleted all features and all classes
    and still I get an error when I compile:.\r\n\r\n[FATAL] <MelkSans-ExtraLight>
    aborting because of errors:\r\nsyntax error at \"EOF\"\r\n[C:/Users/Martin/Documents/FontLab/Studio5/fontlab.fea
    2]\r\n\r\nAlso, the last file I saved without the features. I still have it in
    Notepad but I should have just saved the features with FontLab. I thought I would
    just load in the features from an earlier copy and then replace the script manually
    with what I have in Notepad, but when I do that and I compile it gives this error:\r\nsyntax
    error at \"feature\"\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know what's going on? I shouldn't get
    errors when I delete all features and classes, right? What am I missing?"
  created: '2014-03-12 21:12:57'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Without seeing your files, who can say what's wrong. Clean out your bank
    account & hire Jens Kutilek, he can fix them, I'm sure.\r\n\r\nAs for \"contextual,\"
    try this.\r\n\r\nYou have an italic font. You want to be able to set the sequence
    \"iogonek f i.\" If like most italic fonts, the swoop on the bottom left of the
    \"f\" will collide with the ogonek on the first i. What to do? Make up a special
    f with no swoop on the bottom -- kind of like a Sabon italic f.\r\n\r\nYou swap
    it in with a contextual alternate\r\n\r\nsub iogonek f' by f.alt;\r\n\r\nbut what
    about the i, and all the ligatures with the f?\r\n\r\nWell, if liga is above calt
    in the features file, all those will be missed. And if it's below, with the sequence
    \"iogonek f i\" you'll get the special f followed by a regular i, and those will
    collide.\r\n\r\nSo, you need make up extra ligatures used in \"context,\" but
    they're in the calt feature, not clig.\r\n\r\nWithin calt:\r\n\r\nsub iogonek
    f' by f.alt;\r\nsub iogonek f_f_i' by f_f_i.alt;\r\nsub iogonek f'_i' by f_i.alt;\r\nsub
    iogonek f_f' by f_f.alt;\r\n\r\nThat assumes liga is before calt. If calt is first,
    you have to figure our what's what when the program sees liga, namely (I think)\r\n\r\nsub
    f f i by f_f_i;\r\nsub f.alt f i by f_f_i.alt;\r\netc.\r\n\r\nThere might be a
    way to do this with clig, but it ain't what you've written. Moreover, you need
    \"calt\" in the example above, as there in one instance where no ligature is involved
    -- namely, \"iogonek f\".\r\n\r\nIt's rumored that Bingham Script uses clig, but
    I don't have that at home to take a peek..."
  created: '2014-03-13 00:46:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I'm looking at the Vesper pages. Vesper uses ligatures (normal ones, not
    contextual) and contextual alternates to fix certain spacing problems. I don't
    see anything about \"contextual ligatures\".  \r\n\r\n\"EOF\" means \"end of file\"
    which suggests that there is some structure that's not closed. That could be a
    missing semicolon at the end of a feature, or a missing brace (\"}\") or something
    like that.\r\n\r\nHow did you delete the features? If it's saying \"syntax error
    at 'feature'\" that suggests there is still at least one feature and that there
    is something wrong with it.\r\n\r\nIt's pretty hard to tell what's wrong given
    the small amount of information you've provided. Can you post a screen shot of
    the OpenType and Classes panels maybe?\r\n\r\nAlternatively, I would suggest asking
    over at the FontLab forum, where there are a lot more FontLab users hanging out
    than here. http://forum.fontlab.com/index.php?board=5.0"
  created: '2014-03-13 04:25:05'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: I realized the confusion last night but you seem to have figured it out already;
    I've been using contextual ligatures and contextual alternates interchangeably.
    Last night I checked the script of the font I did a few years ago and noticed
    I'm using calt there and not clig. Aren't these activated by the same OT button
    though? In my previous font they were turned on with the contextual button. Thanks
    a lot for the information. I will have another look at my code.
  created: '2014-03-13 09:33:20'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: I will post screenshots later if I still can't manage to isolate the problem.
    Also thanks for referring me to the FontLab forum. For some reason I didn't even
    think of that.
  created: '2014-03-13 09:35:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Regarding composites, you may want to read the section of the FontLab manual
    on composites, and the use of the \"generate glyph\" (Cmd/Ctrl - G) command. Basically,
    do Generate Glyph and type, say \"a+acute=aacute\" and you will get an aacute
    created as a composite referencing those two base glyphs. If you go in and try
    to edit the aacute you will see that these are references to the original glyphs,
    not editable outlines themselves. This way, changes to either component will affect
    the composite. Pretty nearly all your accented characters should use glyphs constructed
    this way.\r\n\r\nThe glyphs generated when you click on an empty cell are created
    based on recipes in the \"alias.dat\" file. This is an editable plain text file
    used by FontLab (although I'd be careful to back it up before hacking it).\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2014-03-17 01:18:38'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: I'm aware of how it should work, but it's only half the times composites are
    created. Other times I have to copy the accent to the glyph. I haven't tried to
    generate new glyphs by combining a letter and an accent though, so thanks for
    that. I'm sure this will solve my issue. Hacking files seems the lesser option
    in this case.
  created: '2014-03-18 15:05:54'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Well, with FontLab, you never have to \"copy\" the accent. If you are in
    an active character window, use the sequence \"alt\" + \"insert\" (i.e, hold down
    the \"alt\" key whilst hitting \"insert\" -- at least, that is the sequence with
    Windows), to bring in any component glyph -- by name, Unicode number, or anything
    else on a long list of options displayed. Move it around the way you move any
    component around.\r\n\r\nActually, you can bring in the base character that way,
    too. Just double click on a grayed-out cell, open it, select the base glyph with
    alt + insert (or Mac equivalent), and that will be the character the widths &
    sidebearings have. Same sequence again for any number of \"accents.\" All these
    will be components -- unless you eventually decompose, which isn't recommended
    save for glyphs where the components overlap.\r\n\r\nWhen all the artwork is in
    place, make sure both the *name* and *Unicode* assignments are proper...\r\n\r\nMay
    I gently suggest that part of your troubles is perhaps because you *don't* know
    how it should work?"
  created: '2014-03-18 16:49:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "My experience is like Charles\u2019. All my glyphs that should be composites
    are; I never have a random failure."
  created: '2014-03-19 22:38:34'
date: '2014-02-19 02:08:00'
node_type: forum
title: Fontlab output errors

---
