---
author:
  name: Rhetor
body: "I am trying to find a way of achieving the same colour, evenness and strength
  that Jenson conveyed, for instance, here:\r\n\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Jenson_1475_venice_laertius.png]]\r\n\r\nI
  appreciate that there have been many digital typefaces inspired or informed by Jenson
  and I\u2019ve tried some of them \u2013 Adobe Jenson, Arno, Legacy Serif, Centaur
  \ \u2013 but somehow all of them create a very different feel on the page.\r\n\r\nI
  have been trying to put my finger on just what it is the 15th-century Jenson has
  that the modern typefaces don\u2019t and just what it is that I find so attractive
  about the 1475 sample.\r\n\r\nIt isn't the archaic features I'm missing, the long
  \u2018s\u2019 for instance. And it isn't the individual letter forms particularly;
  it\u2019s the look of the whole that\u2019s so special, once one gets a certain
  distance away from it.\r\n\r\nI wonder perhaps if it\u2019s related to the lack,
  to some extent, of sharp edges in the 1475 sample. Compare a page of Arno (beautiful
  in its own way) and this sample and the Arno looks much more intricate and clean
  cut: the serifs are sharper. But it doesn't, to my mind, have quite the same unaffected
  power that the Jenson does.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I wondered if anyone could help with
  these questions:\r\n\r\n(1) What is it that gives the Jenson its special beauty?\r\n\r\n(2)
  Is there any digital typeface which might achieve the same strength and colour?\r\n\r\nI
  am simply looking for a workhorse typeface for everyday use; this isn\u2019t for
  a specific project. And I am not a type professional, so please excuse any glaring
  examples of ignorance in what I've written.\r\n\r\nThank you,\r\n\r\nOliver\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "I love the effect on the page. What I observe at a causal glance is a low
    contrast typeface, with wide letter-forms and generous spacing. Note that the
    letterforms have considerable variation in shape and details for an almost hand
    written effect that I find quite pleasing to the eye. I'll leave it to the experts
    to opine further.\r\nAs for digital typefaces, I am not totally satisfied with
    anything I have seen.  IMHO most digital fonts are too compressed and mechanical
    in design to give this effect. But I expect that you will get some suggestions
    that will come at least part way in meeting your request.\r\nDon\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-16 00:29:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Consider digital letterpress.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-16 01:46:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "all kinds of factors, starting with ink & how the ink is put on the paper
    -- i.e., the ink itself, how it sits of the type, how the type is pressed into
    the paper, how it is thus distributed (also depends on the paper, soft, wetted,
    etc.). If you can see the letterforms of the metal type versus the eventual printing,
    you'll also notice that the transfer of the ink was not linear -- percentagewise,
    the fine lines put down a wider path than the heavy. Then too, the letter pressed
    into paper puts more ink along the edge, with offset printing, the center of black
    is usually the center of the line put down, not the outside.\r\n\r\nJust get a
    good glass and some good samples of type & print, and look. \r\n\r\nAs to \r\n\r\n<cite>(2)
    Is there any digital typeface which might achieve the same strength and colour?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    you look at what I've just said, is isn't just about the \"digital typeface.\"
    For example, you'll never get the slight randomness of individually cast letters
    with digital type. \r\n\r\nIf you're after the look of metal Jensen, it could
    be done, but for a number of reasons, the physical object you hold (the book)
    wouldn't be the same, & likely, not many would be interested. An experiment, not
    a product.\r\n\r\nIf it really is just \"strength and color,\" see\r\n\r\nhttp://www.designfreebies.org/wp-content/uploads/2010/08/free-body-text-font-charis.jpg\r\n\r\nhas
    a a similar quality of \"strength and color,\" but vastly different letterforms."
  created: '2014-02-16 01:54:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "As I've noted, apparently correctly, as an eminent typographer (Bruce Rogers)
    agreed, Ludlow's Eusebius was the closest revival of Jenson's type. This has been
    revived digitally as Nicolas Jenson SG.\r\n\r\nA close resemblance in the shape
    of the individual letters, of course, may still not yield a match for the overall
    texture that you are seeking. But I think that would be the typeface to try before
    giving up on finding it already out there."
  created: '2014-02-16 04:07:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Here\u2019s my effort (albeit with a large x-height):\r\n<a href=\"http://origin.myfonts.com/s/aw/original/78/0/40219.pdf\">Nicholas
    Goodchild</a>"
  created: '2014-02-16 05:00:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>This has been revived digitally as Nicolas Jenson SG.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/spiecegraphics/nicolas-jenson-sg/\r\n\r\nYes.
    Notice the close resemblance of the lower case \"f\" -- Oh, wait, no resemblance...\r\n\r\nAnd
    the texture & color -- not to my eye. Way too much contrast."
  created: '2014-02-16 05:37:46'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Here is Ludlow Eusebius:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Eusebius_3431.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    you can compare [[http://www.identifont.com/show?73R|Nicholas Jenson SG]] with
    it.\r\nAnd, yes, the normal lower case f was designed not to involve kerning;
    there were alternate forms which had the authentic shape, but a non-kerning one
    was needed due to the mechanical exigencies of the Ludlow linecaster in those
    days."
  created: '2014-02-16 17:34:12'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Closer to \"strength and color\" the original poster is asking about would
    probably be Poliphilus and Blado. I remember these with photocomp, in yet another
    attempt to recover the look of letterpress. Never caught on, and yet they were
    closer to that look with the repro-negative-plate systems (photocomp and early
    digital) than with current digital systems.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/mti/poliphilus/\r\n\r\nAs
    far as the mechanical requirements of linecasters, teach your great grandmother
    to suck eggs. I started with them. And always felt that any effort to revive fonts
    the linecasters themselves were reviving should also restore the f, j, etc., and
    if duplexed mats were involved (as with Linotype), the italic letters also cut
    off -- j again, and y.\r\n\r\nIn fact, I think it a disservice to those who designed
    fonts specifically for the linecasters -- essentially, commissions from the first
    half of the 20th century -- to assume they preferred the letterforms they had
    to create, given the requirements of the machines. I would be tempted, in any
    digital revival of those fonts, to make versions with extenders implicit in the
    design, without the consideration of mechanical requirements. YMMV.\r\n\r\nBut
    none of this speaks to the differences between the ink-on-paper differences between
    16th century letterpress & 16th century inks and papers, versus contemporary laser
    or offset practices."
  created: '2014-02-17 06:25:33'
- author:
    name: Rhetor
  body: "Thank you to everyone for their help and the introductions to Charis, Nicholas
    / Goodchild, Eusebius / Nicholas Jenson SG and Poliphilus / Blado.\r\n\r\nIronically,
    of these typefaces, the closest in letterform to the original (Eusebius, ignoring
    the \u2018f\u2019) looks least likely to my (unprofessional) eyes to create the
    same sort of effect on the page, whereas Charis (which couldn\u2019t be more different)
    does have something of the same colour. Poliphilus does seem to be similarly low
    contrast, but the weathered effect is a little eccentric for everyday use.\r\n\r\nI
    take Charles\u2019 point that paper, ink and process matter as well as typeface,
    but I do wonder if there isn\u2019t a gap in the market for a Jenson revival that\u2019s:\r\n\r\nmore-or-less
    faithful (but not self-consciously archaic),\r\n\r\nsomewhat calligraphic (but
    not excessively so) and\r\n\r\n(above all) low contrast, so as to try to get the
    look of the 1475 sample, rather than the shapes of the lost metal used to create
    it (but not uneven in the way Poliphilus is).\r\n\r\nOliver\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-17 10:43:54'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Well, if you don't mind spending a lot of money, take a look at Trinit\xE9,
    and some of the offerings from the Dutch Type Library. Trinit\xE9, which I have
    licensed, costs around \u20AC1400 for a \"bundle.\" Luckily for me, I got it when
    the Euro was only $0.85; it still was U.S. $1,000 at the time.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.teff.nl/fonts/trinite/\r\n\r\n(Use
    the narrow.) I bought this to use for one customer, a noted designer at a university
    press who paid for it out of his own pocket so the press could use it. Due to
    licensing issues, we both had to have a copy. None of the other publishers I work
    for think they can afford it.\r\n\r\nThe DTL fonts are  little cheaper, though
    when you put together enough for a \"bundle,\" they're up there.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/\r\n\r\nExtremely
    good fonts; perhaps what you're looking for -- a sensitive reinterpretation given
    modern materials and techniques. None of my customers can afford them, though.\r\n\r\n(Note:
    this \"We can't afford it\" comes from people who just can't use the same fonts
    over and over -- another new phenomena, but one that has primed the proliferation
    of fonts. Winning font design these days has to keep the price down, at least
    in the book world.)"
  created: '2014-02-17 21:14:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There may be a gap in the range of Jensons, but the market for Jenson revivals
    is practically non-existent at the moment. \r\n\r\nRevivals of the classics occupied
    an early phase of the switch to digital. Now the interest is more in original
    designs, especially sans.\r\n\r\nThe bundling of the classics by Adobe etc., and
    now Google\u2019s free fonts, have severely diminished what market there was for
    old style (antiqua) revivals.\r\n\r\nNonetheless, there is some interest in faces
    such as Williams Caslon\u2014but bear in mind that it is published by Font Bureau,
    and has been well publicized by Mr Berkson, here at Typophile, at type conferences,
    online at I Love Typography, and elsewhere.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-17 23:12:20'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I did not think that Poliphilus was a distressed type, if I am understanding
    you correctly when you speak of a "weathered effect".
  created: '2014-02-17 23:50:22'
- author:
    name: Rhetor
  body: "Charles: I didn\u2019t know Trinit\xE9 at all. What an extraordinary font!
    To my eyes, it comes closest to capturing the effect of the 1475 sample. Sadly
    (but perhaps justifiably) the price is extraordinary too. The Dutch Type Library
    typefaces look exceptionally well made, but nothing quite so close to what I have
    in mind. Were money no object, I think it\u2019s Trinit\xE9 I\u2019d buy; as it
    is, for the moment, I shall wait.\r\n\r\nJohn: You\u2019re quite right, I did
    mean \u2018distressed\u2019 by \u2018weathered\u2019, and Poliphilus isn\u2019t
    distressed, just, as I understand it, somewhat irregular because it\u2019s based
    on the typeface as it appeared on the page, allowing for inkspread, rather than
    trying to get back to the shape of the metal.\r\n\r\nNick: What a pity the market
    for revivals is so flat. Someone might think they\u2019d seen all the Garamonds
    they could possibly want to and wonder what the point of another would be. But
    then they come across MVB Verdigris.\r\n\r\nOliver\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-19 12:20:48'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>... I did mean \u2018distressed\u2019 by \u2018weathered\u2019,
    and Poliphilus isn\u2019t distressed, just, as I understand it, somewhat irregular
    because it\u2019s based on the typeface as it appeared on the page, allowing for
    inkspread, rather than trying to get back to the shape of the metal.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nActually,
    allowing for ink spread is a part of designing the typeface in the first place,
    a necessary step. However, I think I know what you mean -- Poliphilus shows the
    variations of a particular *instance* of the piece of type a pressed into the
    paper, with attending warts, rather than the general effect.\r\n\r\nLooking at
    the piece of metal & reconstructing its outlines without taking into account the
    spread of ink is why first photocomp, now digital revivals look so pale & spindly.
    The ink spread needs to be accounted for, but regularized. Nor was this a surprise
    to the designers of type in those days. They would test a letter's design, then
    adjust it, based on the actual inkspread.\r\n\r\nYou might enjoy Fred Smeijer's
    book <cite>Counterpunch</cite>. More people should read it, including, IMSLTHO,
    contemporary type designers.\r\n\r\nhttps://hyphenpress.co.uk/authors/fred_smeijers\r\n\r\n<cite>Edit</cite>\r\n\r\nUntil
    you've enough interest to spring for Trinit\xE9, Golden Cockerel might interest
    you. While I don't particularly care for it, it does have some of the characteristics
    you're looking for.  \r\n\r\nhttp://www.fonts.com/font/itc/itc-golden-cockerel#product_top\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Trinit\xE9 has no ligatures, and no kerning. Whether or not it's worth the price
    is, as always, an individual's decision."
  created: '2014-02-19 13:39:40'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "It has been a few years ago, but I remember I did employ Slimbach\u2019s
    Adobe Jenson with much comfort.\r\n\r\nIf \u201CJensonian\u201D may be interpreted
    with more liberty, also have a look at my fellow countryman [[http://www.myfonts.com/foundry/Hoftype/|Dieter
    Hofrichter\u2019s typefaces]], e.g. Sina or Cala. I count them among the finest
    text faces available.\r\n\r\nLast but not least, for the \u201Cworkhorse\u201D
    (although not actually Jenson-based) but there\u2019s still [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/andreas-stotzner/andron-1-lat-corpus/|Andron]]
    at your service, producing a somewhat similar \u2018colour\u2019 on the page when
    printed."
  created: '2014-02-19 18:37:30'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "\"It isn't the archaic features I'm missing, the long \u2018s\u2019 for instance.
    And it isn't the individual letter forms particularly; it\u2019s the look of the
    whole that\u2019s so special, once one gets a certain distance away from it.\"\r\n\r\nI
    think this is all attributed to the side-effects of the printing technique, which
    I think you have little control over. Letterpress always looks warmer and I can't
    help but feel it looks more impressive and refined.\r\n\r\nA while ago I reproduced
    some old letterpressed pages using digital fonts. In some cases I tweaked some
    of the display letters to get more of that original charm back, but as you can
    see here, in general it's still a lot more sterile and frankly doesn't look as
    impressive.\r\n\r\nHypnerotomachia Poliphili original: [[http://fc09.deviantart.net/fs70/i/2012/269/4/e/hypnerotomachia_poliphili_original_by_martinsilvertant-d5g07xz.jpg|link]]\r\nHypnerotomachia
    Poliphili reproduction: [[http://fc03.deviantart.net/fs71/i/2012/269/3/9/hypnerotomachia_poliphili_by_martinsilvertant-d5g0815.jpg|link]]\r\nTorneo
    Famoso: [[http://fc04.deviantart.net/fs70/f/2012/241/e/a/l__algebre_by_martinsilvertant-d5ctqq7.jpg|link]]\r\nBibliotheque
    des Philosophes: [[http://fc06.deviantart.net/fs71/f/2012/241/5/9/bibliotheque_des_philosophes_by_martinsilvertant-d5ctjp8.jpg|link]]\r\nDe
    Horlende Kollendans: [[http://fc03.deviantart.net/fs70/f/2012/269/6/f/de_horlende_kollendans_by_martinsilvertant-d5g08ar.jpg|link]]\r\nTorneo
    Famoso: [[http://fc06.deviantart.net/fs70/f/2012/241/a/4/torneo_famoso_by_martinsilvertant-d5cum27.jpg|link]]"
  created: '2014-02-20 00:20:24'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>A while ago I reproduced some old letterpressed pages using digital
    fonts. In some cases I tweaked some of the display letters to get more of that
    original charm back, but as you can see here, in general it's still a lot more
    sterile and frankly doesn't look as impressive.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell. I'm
    impressed.\r\n\r\nBeyond that, letterpress has it's downside, too. A good friend
    of mine, the designer Rich Hendel, spent the first half of his career where books
    he designed were always set hot metal. He  thinks modern type/printing is much
    better. I'd point out some of the old treasures like <cite>Hypnerotomachia Poliphili,</cite>
    and his rejoinder is something akin to \"yes, and for every good one, there were
    literally thousands of bad ones.\" \r\n\r\nAnd there are. I have a 12th printing
    (first printing 1903, 12th 1906) of Jack London's <cite>The Call of the Wild</cite>
    that is so bad you want to cry -- or take it to the outhouse for spare wiping
    material. Everything is bad -- except, probably the technical quality of the stereo
    plates (meaning the original was bad, too). Not an unimportant book, at least
    in the States. Many, many similar examples..."
  created: '2014-02-20 01:27:04'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Thanks, Charles.\r\n\r\nWould it be at all possible to take a picture of
    a page from The Call of the Wild and upload it here? I'm really curious what letterpress
    gone bad looks like. Every result I've seen so far has impressed the hell out
    of me, from the variety in the ink flow to the relief the ink has on paper. At
    least in my mind a letterpress gone bad would still look charming.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    do you know what caused it to become such a bad print? What do you mean when you
    say the original was bad, too?"
  created: '2014-02-20 06:32:28'
- author:
    name: Rhetor
  body: "Fascinating to compare them, Martin.\r\n\r\nAnd, with due respect to the
    results, as you say, the Letterpress is warmer.\r\n\r\nThe difference between
    your Hypnerotomachia Poliphili and the original exactly captures the difference
    I find between the Jenson sample, and anything I try to make look anything like
    it (except that mine get nowhere near as close).\r\n\r\nWhat typeface were you
    using for your version of it?\r\n\r\nOliver\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Martin Silvertant
      picture: 118818
    body: "Oliver,\r\n\r\nThe typefaces I chose depended on the source. I obviously
      couldn't find exact matches but I managed to get pretty close by using mostly
      Adobe Caslon Pro. I also used an alternate cut of a different Caslon font, I
      used Garamond Premier Pro and I believe I used some Elzevir cut somewhere as
      well. Generally I just stayed close to what I know to be historically commonly
      used typefaces of the time, so Caslon would be the first choice.\r\n\r\nFor
      these reproductions my goal was to reproduce the pages using modern fonts. I
      did a lot of bad typographical practices like irregular spacing to get the charming
      effect of the original into the work, but it wasn't my goal to make the reproduction
      as accurate as possible. Another step towards such a goal would be the use of
      textures and filters to get the ink texture and irregularities of the lead letters
      and a final step would be to fake lighting and shadows."
    created: '2014-03-06 11:33:12'
  created: '2014-02-20 23:00:43'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I'm going off on what might seem to be a tangent here, bear with me.\r\n\r\nY0-Yo
    Ma has an electronic cello he can make sound virtually identical to his Guarneri.
    That it can also be made to sound different isn't relevant to this point. That
    when he chooses to make the electric sound like the Guarneri is.\r\n\r\nBut Ma,
    or a human of similar skill, has to play it. Click/flash/change. We can make a
    rhythm track to replace the drums. But it's metronomical precision soon lets everyone
    know it's a computer, useless beyond punching up the evening news. A human drummer
    is not a metronome, and musically, that's a vitally important difference.\r\n\r\nIt
    is the same with printing, with the \"warmth\" of letterpress. Font outlines can
    be drawn to have the contrast of a (mythical) typical letter, as found printed
    letterpress. But the use of the computer in printing today makes every letter
    (a, l, e, etc.) look the same, and perhaps worse, the spacing too is identical
    in all planes. There is a feeling of precision, and an attendant lack of warmth.\r\n\r\nNow
    in type, anyway, the variations found in letterpress seem to me to be due to pure
    randomness, rather than the performance skill of the typesetter and printer. (OK,
    there are a few \"performance skills,\" but unlike music, most of them can be
    quantified & programmed.)\r\n\r\nSo I think any attempt to get the \"warmth\"
    of letterpress will fail, until a slight amount of randomness is introduced at
    all points -- the letterforms themselves, and their horizontal and vertical spacing,
    etc. Unlike music, I do think this can be programmed, as it's occurrence in metal/letterpress
    is also random, without any conscious or attentive thought. AFAIK though, not
    much work has been done along these lines.\r\n\r\nOn my analogy, the digital font
    would be the electronic cello. Not that hard to create. Playing it is a different
    matter."
  created: '2014-02-21 02:31:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I\u2019ve occasionally thought of making such a typeface.\r\nBut I think
    I\u2019d prefer to systematize the irregularity, integrating it with glyph shape
    in some way, otherwise it would be a rather dry exercise\u2014despite producing
    a warm effect."
  created: '2014-02-21 05:18:10'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "This edition of The Call of the Wild comes from about the right time, but
    it has decent typography:\r\n\r\n[[https://archive.org/details/callofthewild00londrich]]\r\n\r\nand
    similarly this one\r\n\r\n[[https://archive.org/details/cu31924021763549]]\r\n\r\nor
    this one\r\n\r\n[[https://archive.org/details/callofwild00lond]]\r\n\r\nNot good
    typography in some ways; too much space, so there was laziness involved, in some
    of these editions, but decent-looking typefaces and readable. I was expecting
    something execrable, on the order of\r\n\r\n[[https://archive.org/details/adventurebeautif00whitrich]]\r\n\r\nactually,
    this isn't that bad, although it goes in the direction of the kind of Scotch Roman
    that is not to my taste; but despite horrendous typography coming up so often
    when one doesn't want it, it's hard to find it when one is looking for it.\r\n\r\n[[https://archive.org/details/champesadventure00leeh]]\r\n\r\nillustrates
    a somewhat unattractive typeface but too large to be unreadable.\r\n\r\nAh, this
    is not an attractive typeface,\r\n\r\n[[https://archive.org/details/cu31924098819562]]\r\n\r\nbeing
    quite narrow, but not also too light, as were the worst of the old Scotch Romans...\r\n\r\n[[https://archive.org/details/uncletomscabin00stowuoft]]\r\n\r\nfinally
    at least <em>approaches</em> what I seek to put forwards as an example of a bad
    Scotch Roman.\r\n\r\nAnd, this, conversely - from a Ginn and Company textbook,
    so I presume it's Linotype and not Monotype - is an example of a good Scotch Roman.
    (Linotype did advertising figures too, so while they could never do four-line
    mathematics, very basic mathematical setting was not beyond their system.)\r\n\r\n[[https://archive.org/details/IntegralCalculus]]\r\n\r\nHere
    is an image; on top, a \"bad\" Scotch Roman, and on the bottom a \"good\" Scotch
    Roman.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SCOTCH_5920.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    bad one doesn't look so much worse than the good in the image, though, since it's
    shown in a larger size so that the column widths match, and that makes the bad
    one look better."
  created: '2014-03-06 22:19:40'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I find each sample you provided to be charming and contextually beautiful.
    That is to say, I recognize the bad typography but it doesn't quite register.
    I mean, I have plenty of 19th century and 20th century books which I bought not
    because of the content but because of the age and printing, and particularly the
    books from around 1920 I have are set in these Scotch typefaces. I guess in a
    way it's a natural progression from Baskerville. What I do notice is the wide
    spacing and plentiful gaps in the texts because of the justified text. Can't this
    be attributed to the lead letters though rather than the typographer? With modern
    software it's easy to make justified text look good and make it practical to read,
    but I can imagine with old printing techniques there just wasn't much control
    over the typography if the typeface is bad. I have to say though, most of these
    Scotch typefaces simply appear too light in print.\r\n\r\nAlso, when you refer
    to a typeface as bad in this context, I assume you're not necessarily referring
    to the design, right? If you are, I don't think I could judge the quality of a
    Scotch in use that well. The before-last link (Uncle Tom's cabin) looks alright
    to me. The last one (Integral Calculus) doesn't, but I like that. It would probably
    annoy me if I were to read a whole book set like that though (although I'm quite
    certain I did read the Bible set in a Scotch face, which wasn't the best read)."
  created: '2014-03-08 20:48:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'm thinking now that the \"bad\" Scotch wasn't that bad; I've seen Scotch
    Roman typefaces I disliked, but they were more condensed than the example, and
    lighter than the example.\r\n\r\nThis\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/condex_6338.jpg]\r\n\r\nmight
    be a better example of a Scotch Roman that was too condensed to be good for use
    in body copy. But it's not really \"bad\", either, because it may be a little
    too condensed, but it isn't also far too light.\r\n\r\nAh, <em>here</em> we are:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cx2_4748.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    don't know how others will view the typeface in this sample, but I think it's
    far too condensed for reading."
  created: '2014-03-09 02:52:04'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "The issue for me is the strong vertical focus, which is partially caused
    by the condensed proportions but also the slightly squared design. The details
    also tend to blur together because of the printing as well as the high contrast
    of the type.\r\n\r\nBy the way, is this typically Scotch that the word spacing
    is so wide? I mean, I think a double space is used after a period anyway, but
    that makes the effect even worse. Or do you actually prefer these big spaces?
    I know someone who still uses double spaces."
  created: '2014-03-09 05:24:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Scotch required some composing and printing skill, in metal days, to get
    right.\r\nAnd today, it\u2019s impossible to judge the quality of such letterpress
    printing second hand, on a screen.\r\nEven a high-res offset reproduction doesn\u2019t
    tell the story.\r\nThe quality is three dimensional.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Punch_6700.jpg]\r\n(This
    is a photo taken at an angle, not a scan.)"
  created: '2014-03-09 17:38:03'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Good information. Are some of these lines really blurred or is that an artifact?
    I don't think I've seen blurs in letterpress printing before.
  created: '2014-03-09 21:30:41'
- author:
    name: Les ONeill
  body: I think that's just the camera shot, Martin (note Nick's comment below the
    image). Wide open macro = very shallow depth of field
  created: '2014-03-10 01:24:25'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Logically I thought it was the focus of the camera, but the fact that both
    the front and back are blurred with some portions being sharper made me doubt
    myself.
  created: '2014-03-10 03:41:41'
date: '2014-02-15 13:09:08'
node_type: forum
title: Searching for the Jenson look

---
