---
author:
  name: Fournier
  picture: 126738
body: "William Morris was a key artist in the second half of the XIX th century through
  the pre-raphaelites and the Arts & Crafts and had a vivid influence on the creation
  of private press. Some typographers and calligraphers asserted they followed the
  path of Morris. Among them, find at least three names of early XX th century typographers:
  the American Frederic Goudy, the Austrian Victor Hammer and the German Rudolf Koch.\r\n\r\nDo
  you know other typographers under the influence of William Morris, by the way?\r\nThanks
  in advance."
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The book <em>The Kelmscott Press: A History of William Morris's Typographical
    Adventure</em> by William S. Peterson is very good, and includes a chapter on
    the immediate, direct influences of Morris. \r\n\r\nI think the impact of Morris
    is huge, but more general. For one thing, he made revivals of old type fashionable,
    resulting in a flood of revivals in the early 20th century. Second, the idea of
    a 'designer' separate from a printer was apparently created by his example, though
    I'm sure others know more about this history. Third, and more minor, the revival
    specifically of the types of Griffo and Jenson was led by him, so all later revivals
    of these are influenced by his efforts, even when they reject his heavy style.
    \r\n\r\nAnother specific influence was his criticism of 'modern' types (Bodoni)
    and praise of 'old style', which led to specifically the revival of old style
    types. \r\n\r\nThere may well be stories about the influence of his style of illustration,
    and of his example of 'art book', but I don't know the stories. "
  created: '2014-02-23 15:58:27'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "<blockquote>Another specific influence was his criticism of 'modern' types
    (Bodoni) and praise of 'old style', which led to specifically the revival of old
    style types.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nCaslon's old style types were revived in 1843,
    when Morris would have been about 10. In ensuing years Morris certainly tipped
    the scales towards old style substantially, but his criticism wasn't the cause
    of the revival."
  created: '2014-02-23 17:31:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>A Day at LaGuerre\u2019s</em> by F. Hopkinson Smith, published in 1892
    by Houghton Mif\uFB02in (Boston), is considered to have been the \uFB01rst American
    book to show the in\uFB02uence of Kelmscott. It was designed by D.B. Updike.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    Altar Book</em>, Bertram Goodhue, type designer and decorator, printed by Updike,
    1896, is pure  Kelmscott.\r\n\r\nBut do you really mean typographer, or type designer?\r\n\r\nThe
    most direct in\uFB02uence Morris had in type design was published by ATF in 1893
    and named \u201CJenson Old Style\u201D, a plagiarization of the Golden Type. Here
    it is from an Ivory Snow ad in <em>Ladies Home Journal</em>, Christmas 1903 (left
    hand page). Note also the Morrisonian holly-patch on the editorial page.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IvoryCU_5503.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/JournalXmasSpread_6680.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhereas
    Kelmscott books were upscale and printed in the hundreds, the <em>Ladies Home
    Journal</em> shown cost 15\xA2 and had a circulation of over three million."
  created: '2014-02-23 21:54:30'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Agreed on the history as you''ve elaborated. I just thought it was worth
    clarifying that your original statement might be misunderstood as asserting that
    old-style revivals only came after Morris''s input. '
  created: '2014-02-24 04:43:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Craig, what I said is accurate. Caslon was first revived at the time you
    say, but it was only used for reprinting of old books, or books with stories set
    in old times. It was generally used only to create deliberate antique effect.
    \r\n\r\nThe early Chiswick press books reviving Caslon did attract attention,
    I think, for their readability, as well as beauty. The next step was the creation
    of 'Old Style,' which was very widely used. But it has generally 'modern' features,
    but reduced contrast, which looked 'old style' enough to Victorian eyes. It was
    only after printer Emery Walker, a friend of Morris's, gave a talk about the history
    of type, showing samples of old printing, that Morris became passionate about
    type revival and designing and printing his own books. \r\n\r\nI did an article,
    'Readability and Revival: The Case of Caslon,' for <em>Printing History</em> New
    Series no. 10 (July 2011), where you can read more of the story. William Peterson,
    who was editor then, and truly knowledgable of that period and its personalities,
    lives here in Washington DC, and was kind enough to share with me his research
    that is relevant to the story. So I think I got it right.   \r\n\r\nMorris was
    so much a taste and opinion leader that he changed the view of old styles, making
    them fashionable instead of quaint, and only after Morris did they start to be
    widely used. Morris wrote of \"the sweltering hideousness of the Bodoni letter,
    the most illegible type that was ever cut, with its preposterous thicks and thins
    ...\"  I don't agree with Morris\u2014though his passion is wonderful\u2014but
    it seems that at the time if William Morris said something wasn't cool, it wasn't
    cool. \r\n\r\nIn America, for example, Vogue Magazine, started in 1892, adopted
    Caslon, and that started the Caslon popularity in the U.S.  Emery Walker himself,
    if I remember rightly, preferred Caslon to Jenson. "
  created: '2014-02-24 05:13:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don\u2019t think the dots connect quite so neatly, Bill.\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    a bit of a stretch to call the Golden Type an old style, it\u2019s more of a caricature,
    not a general purpose \u201Creadable old style\u201D design.\r\n\r\nMorris Benton
    at ATF produced several antiquarian styles, e.g. Roycroft and Bodoni, and the
    Arts and Crafts Cheltenham, and the functionalist Clearface, before he got around
    to reviving an old style (Cloister, his Jenson). \r\n\r\nYou won\u2019t \uFB01nd
    true old style typefaces, other than sporadic Caslon, Golden Type knock-offs,
    and Della Robbia, widely used in the U.S. mass media until Goudy\u2019s Kennerley
    in 1911 (not a revival), which was the game changer. In the UK, Imprint (1913)
    appears to have been the \uFB01rst new old style. \r\n\r\nAs you say, people were
    quite happy with \u201COld Style\u201D. Morris Benton thought the readability
    road ahead was through Cheltenham, Century and Clearface, not old style.\r\n\r\nSo,
    while William Morris, D.B. Updike, Will Bradley, Walter Crane (<em>Of the Decorative
    Illustration of Books</em>) et al can be said to have stimulated the fashion for
    historicist graphic design and page layout in the late 1890s, it didn\u2019t translate
    into the production of popular \u201Creadable old style\u201D text faces during
    the \uFB01rst decade of the 20th century. If William Morris, who died in 1896,
    was so in\uFB02uential typographically, why the delay?\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-24 06:06:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">If William Morris, who died in 1896, was so in\uFB02uential typographically,
    why the delay?\r\n\r\nExcept there wasn't a delay. As I said, Caslon was used
    by Vogue in 1992, and\u2014here I am relying on Mac MacGrew's book American Metal
    Typefaces\u2014this started the popularity of Caslon in America. This would be
    the 'McKellar' Caslon, a foundry type allegedly produced by electroplating originals.
    In England,  George Bernard Shaw, who knew both Morris and Walker through Socialist
    circles, insisted on printing his plays in Caslon, before the turn of the century.
    You can see some of the story  [[http://books.google.com/books?id=ti3EGtFcq5IC&pg=PA45&lpg=PA45&dq=Shaw+on+Caslon&source=bl&ots=-B84it16Uv&sig=rquR7aEA4CdpTe3n4AV9NMzwRig&hl=en&sa=X&ei=ZXcLU8iHF8nq0wHCvoDQBA&ved=0CCkQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=Shaw%20on%20Caslon&f=false|here]].
    \r\n\r\nThis *general use* of Caslon I think dates after Walker and Morris were
    praising it. The general revival of old style types involves both Caslon and the
    Jenson that Morris copied, as well as many other types. \r\n\r\nIn America, certainly
    Theodore Lowe DeVinne was also an influence, criticizing the high contrast types
    of his time, and using his influence to reduce thick-thin contrast in the original
    Century type, commissioned for the magazine he printed. He gave a good review
    of Caslon in his Historical Printing Types, but I don't think he used Caslon himself,
    whereas a book by Morris was printed in Caslon in 1892, probably under the influence
    of Walker. \r\n\r\nIt is a general revaluation of older types that I think is
    the main influence of Morris, though the case is circumstantial; I can't prove
    that Morris was a key factor in changing typographic tastes, but when you look
    at the big picture, it sure looks that way. Of course it is ATF, Linotype, Monotype
    who use the pantographic punch cutter to do the revivals over next forty years. "
  created: '2014-02-24 17:12:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, there *was* a delay.\r\nYour argument is cherry-picked from second-hand
    sources.\r\n\r\nSure, there was some use of Caslon in literary circles.\r\nBut
    look at an assortment of mass-circulation magazines from the \uFB01rst decade
    of the 20th century.\r\nThe majority of text faces, in both editorial and advertising,
    will be Moderns, Old Style, and Cheltenham.\r\n\r\nThe idea that William Morris
    made true old style (antiqua) faces popular does not hold water. \r\n\r\nIt was
    Frederic Goudy\u2019s dissatisfaction with the spotty nature of Caslon (caused
    by its heavy caps\u2014see his narrative in <em>Goudy\u2019s Type Designs</em>)
    that led him to produce Kennerley in 1911, which immediately became widely used,
    and was shortly followed by Goudy Old Style, and ATF\u2019s Garamond and Cloister
    (Jenson) revivals. \r\n\r\nAlthough Goudy had produced his Village and Light Old
    Style (E38) earlier, they were not yet fully realized old styles, and didn\u2019t
    open the \uFB02ood gates for the antiqua in the way that Kennerley did.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-24 20:17:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, your scenario that it was Goudy, not Morris doesn't wash, not least
    because Goudy was heavily influenced by Morris, as [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frederic_Goudy#Biography|the
    wikipedia article on him notes.]] Goudy's Village, 1903\u2014was it Goudy's first
    type?\u2014was strongly influenced by Morris's Golden type. Goudy bought Morris's
    physical Kelmscott Press, and the first thing Goudy published on his own Village
    Press was an essay by Morris and Walker. \r\n\r\nThis story of going through a
    Morris phase, then rejecting it, but doing more sober historically influenced
    work, including revivals, happens again and again. Updike initially went through
    a phase of imitating Morris, producing the best book done in the US with a Morris
    aesthetic, according to Peterson. Then he rejected the Morris aesthetic, but did
    historical style printing, as the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Berkeley_Updike#The_Merrymount_Press|wikipedia
    article on him explains.]]  And of course wrote his great history of types\u2014but
    it started with Morris. Bruce Rogers got into book design because of seeing Morris's
    work. And of course Centaur is a Jenson-influenced type, though Rogers also rejected
    the heavy Morris aesthetic in .\r\n\r\nAlso people were doing revivals before
    1911, so it wasn't Kennerley that suddenly turned the tide. Inland Type Foundry
    did a Caslon in 1901, which became the basis for Monotype's Caslon 337. And Monotype
    did a Caslon as early as 1903. ATF's Caslon 540 was 1902, and their Caslon 471
    was before that. Lawson's book also tells the same story about Vogue in America,
    but more extensively, with more details about the influence of Vogue's use.   Also
    the Doves type (1900), used by Walker's press, was influential, as Peterson documents.
    Morris was just all over the place, though you could argue it was equally Walker.
    The revival snowball was already rolling when Goudy started doing type.  "
  created: '2014-02-24 22:50:19'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Earlier in this thread, we saw that Caslon was revived before Morris, not
    just before Goudy. That Goudy was influenced by Morris, though, while it shows
    that Morris must get some of the credit, doesn't itself show that Goudy didn't
    have an important role - although your other point, that Goudy wasn't the only
    typographer to be inspired by Morris, and then move on to more sober historical
    revivals <em>is</em> telling.\r\n\r\nGiving Morris full credit seems odd, since
    his own revivals are so different from the other revivals that came after him.
    But seeing how Goudy, Rogers, and Updike reacted to their initial inspiration
    by Morris means that they get some of the credit too, because they produced revivals
    that would be more popular and that would stand the test of time. Without their
    contributions, Morris might have been seen as only an eccentric, rather than someone
    who was influential and even pivotal."
  created: '2014-02-24 23:31:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, you said:\r\n<em>\u201CMorris was so much a taste and opinion leader
    that he changed the view of old styles, making them fashionable instead of quaint,
    and only after Morris did they start to be widely used.\u201D</em>\r\n\u2014but
    you haven\u2019t studied the mass media of the day to see what was actually in
    fashion, instead relying on the skewed opinions of academics (under the assumption
    that this means you will \u201Cget it right\u201D) and the evidence of specimen
    books\u2014which tell only what was available, not what was popular.\r\n\r\nThe
    record is clear in large-circulation publications of the \uFB01rst decade of the
    20th century\u2014old style (antiqua) faces were not popular! (Other than the
    Old Style that originated c. 1850.)\r\n\r\nYes, after Morris old styles did start
    to be *widely* used, but only long after, and after the efforts of Goudy.\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t deny that \u201Cthe ball was rolling\u201D, as you say, but outside
    of the general fashion.\r\nBear in mind, the private presses were an incubator
    (which we can see with hindsight), a tiny market removed from the commercial mainstream.\r\n\r\nI
    asked: Why the delay?\r\n\r\nAnd I identi\uFB01ed two reasons: \uFB01rstly because
    the thinking, by those such as Morris Benton, about readability/legibility was
    towards ideas such as heavier weight and lower contrast (Century and Cheltenham)
    and clarity of form (Century and Clearface). I suspect that historicism was primarily
    an issue of authenticity for Benton, not a key to readability.\r\n\r\nAnd secondly,
    it took Goudy a while to \uFB01gure out what made the historical old style tick,
    how to make it work again, and for it to become popular through the \u201Ckiller
    app\u201D of Kennerley. \r\n\r\nIsn\u2019t it counter intuitive that a style hundreds
    of years old would have been considered to be efficient in the Progressive era?
    It took Goudy\u2019s experiments with historical pastiche and text color to synthesize,
    through design, an attractive demonstration of a proposition that William Morris\u2019
    elitist typography had only hinted at, that the allure of the past could be a
    gateway to contemporary mass functionality."
  created: '2014-02-25 00:06:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, your point about the leadership and popularity is interesting and valid.
    But Vogue magazine was apparently huge, and that kind of thing is influential.
    Similarly with Shaw. The fact that it took time to build is not surprising. To
    see trends, you have to look over time. That something started small is not unusual.
    Also people like Lawson and Peterson looked at a lot of literature of the time.
    I don't think they deserve your disparaging remarks.  \r\n\r\nJohn, I agree that
    the credit should be spread around. The earlier efforts of the Chiswick Press
    were also important, and all those people, including Goudy, were a part of what
    created the change. I'm not saying that Goudy didn't have an impact, Nick, but
    I think when you track it, Morris (or Walker-Morrison) is more of an inflection
    point. Of course the inflection point also coincided with the invention of the
    pantographic punch cutter, which enabled revivals to be made much more cheaply,
    I think. So that may have equally been a factor.\r\n\r\nBy the way, on readability,
    I think it was Theodore Lowe DeVinne's critique of high contrast which was the
    influence. Benton the father did the first version of Century, following DeVinne's
    guidance. Later with M.F. Benton's Clearface, an effort to be highly readable,
    I think the influence was some research of the time. "
  created: '2014-02-25 01:48:51'
- author:
    name: 5star
  body: "This is coolio discussion, I'm learning tons! \r\n\r\nI first became aware
    of Morris through a mention from Wright (Frank Lloyd) something to do with the
    Arts & Crafts movement ...but I read that Morris was a lot more than associated
    with textiles and such.\r\n\r\nHe must of had a more than few people working for
    him."
  created: '2014-02-25 02:02:23'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: "Nick, is it possible people are talking about two distinct conceptions of
    fashion here?\r\n\r\nThere's a famous quote by Brian Eno about The Velvet Underground:
    \"Their first album only sold 30,000 copies, but everyone who bought one of those
    30,000 copies started a band\". A relatively small group of fans bought an album
    from 1967 (when the Velvet Underground was unusual), and precipitated a change
    that hit the mainstream ten or fifteen years later (when they were less so). This
    sort of thing isn't that strange, really: You have a small group of cognoscenti
    devotees of a particular style carrying on a line of thought different from the
    mainstream \u2013 and then at some point fashion changes and they're suddenly
    in the middle of it.\r\n\r\nSo in this case it's perfectly possible some later-influential
    designers had a cult-figure Morris devotion going on, which bloomed into fashion
    when other trends ended up in a similar area. It may even have been fashionable
    in a smaller context, like the art world (there's plenty of examples of Morris-style
    lettering there), without breaking throught into the mainstream. It's not like
    the styling of today's graphic design avant-garde, to compare, is the same as
    its mainstream equivalent, though both are \"in fashion\" in distinct senses."
  created: '2014-02-25 10:19:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Birdseeding:\r\nGiven that Goudy was inspired by Morris, your explanation
    is indeed the one that clarifies things.\r\n\r\nSince Goudy was recognized as
    a very talented type designer who produced many typefaces of immense and enduring
    popularity, while the types Morris designed largely remained quaint curiosities,
    it's natural to want to give Goudy instead of Morris credit for a major development
    in typography.\r\n\r\nBy pointing out that Jenson Old Style made it to the <em>Ladies
    Home Journal</em>, of course, Nick Shinn might have refuted his own point. But
    I didn't feel that way until Nick Shinn's latest post just before yours. In 1900,
    a lot of typefaces were popular that hardly anyone would have considered in 1950
    or today.\r\n\r\nThe revival phenomenon that needs to be explained is the series
    of revivals including those of Baskerville and Garamond, involving both ATF and
    (British) Monotype.\r\n\r\nThe candidate inspirations are:\r\n\r\nThe revival
    of Caslon, which is known to have led to Phemister old style.\r\n\r\nMorris' revival
    of Jenson's type as Golden.\r\n\r\nGoudy's creation of Kennerley.\r\n\r\nAnatomy
    of a Typeface notes that Bembo was the last of the initial group of Monotype revivals,
    and that it came out in 1929. It specifically takes the position that this was
    engendered by William Morris and the private press movement. As well, it is noted
    that Monotype created a version of Centaur... and Bruce Rogers does seem to have
    been inspired by Morris.\r\n\r\nIn my earlier post, I noted, in effect, that if
    none of those 30,000 people buying the Velvet Underground album had musical talent,
    then the Velvet Underground would not have been influential. Which is why I felt
    there was room for those who felt that the 'real' credit should go to Goudy or
    Rogers. And, of course, someone had to figure that it was worth reviving Garamond
    and Baskerville in addition to Jenson and Aldus: that decision changed revivals
    from being something for artistic books to something that impinged on general
    publishing."
  created: '2014-02-25 17:07:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I\u2019m extremely cynical of academic histories which construct narratives
    far removed from what occurred in the mainstream of commercial culture.\r\n\r\nI
    admit my bias, having been an art director in an advertising agency.\r\n\r\nWhen
    someone says \u201Cthis was the fashion\u201D, and it wasn\u2019t, I just ask
    that they survey the mass media of the the time and place. Have you actually looked
    at <em>ladies Home Journal, Colliers</em> and <em>Saturday Evening Post</em> from
    the 1900s and tallied which typefaces were prevalent in their editorial and advertising
    matter? These were the publications which de\uFB01ned the culture. "
  created: '2014-02-25 19:15:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, we are talking about two worlds here, mass culture and metaculture (the
    trade subculture of those who make mass culture).\r\n\r\nWhat I am contesting
    is Bill\u2019s con\uFB02ation of the two.\r\nThis is a hobby horse of mine! (See
    my article in Codex 3 for an elaboration.)\r\nBill said that William Morris\u2019
    revival of Jenson made old styles fashionable and widely used, with the subtext
    that their superior readability was involved (a hobby horse of his!) \r\nHowever,
    I have a collection of mass circulation magazines from the early 1900s, and the
    text type styles which are fashionable in them, and widely used, are not old styles.\r\nThat
    is why I disparage his version of history, which follows the academic narrative
    centered on elite documents (from private presses) and metaculture or trade publications
    (e.g. type foundry specimens).\r\n\r\n<em>\u201Cif none of those 30,000 people
    buying the Velvet Underground album had musical talent, then the Velvet Underground
    would not have been influential </em>\r\n\r\nI bought the Velvets\u2019 \uFB01rst
    album, and although I didn\u2019t start a band, I did go to art school, for which
    it may have been partly responsible. I should also point out that if one adopts
    the Velvets as a precursor to punk, then their signi\uFB01cance is the *lack*
    of musical talent required to bash it out like Sister Ray!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-25 20:06:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "duplicate\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-25 20:38:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: duplicate
  created: '2014-02-25 20:39:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: duplicate
  created: '2014-02-25 20:39:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, I look forward to reading your Codex article. \r\n\r\nHowever, advertising
    is not the only thing printed, and I think your high handed rejection of whatever
    isn't in advertising is ridiculous. You know, there were such a thing as books,
    and a lot of people read them. It may well be that books led the way on the adoption
    of Caslon, though Vogue (1892) was, I believe a hugely popular magazine\u2014and
    of course still around. \r\n\r\nAnd the adoption of Caslon, and then other revival
    old styles, for general use, not just antiquarian effect, was, as I said, crucially
    influenced by Walker and Morris. And Caslon revivals were being churned out and
    sold by ATF and Monotype well before Kennerley in 1911. For example, [[https://archive.org/stream/brucerogersdesig00ward#page/n9/mode/2up|Frederic
    Warde, writing in 1925 about Bruce Rogers]] relates that seeing Morris \"came
    as a revelation\" to Rogers and changed his whole way of thinking about books.
    Rogers is known for using Caslon a lot, starting in 1897 (see the bibliography
    in the linked book), and had a special version of Caslon cast for his use on the
    Monotype machine, Riverside Caslon, in 1909. Daniel Berkeley Updike [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Daniel_Berkeley_Updike|purchased
    Caslon in 1904]]. Updike was probably the biggest Caslon fan ever, and printed
    14,000 items over his career, many of them using Caslon. His Marymount press,
    even though it specialized in fine editions, was commercial and also did a lot
    of other work. The point is, judging by the most revered and influential book
    designers, the Caslon freight train was going full speed before Goudy ever did
    Kennerley, and the popularity of Caslon with these taste leaders was itself an
    invitation to revive other old styles, quite apart from Goudy's work. And these
    guys who actually did the revivals sure knew about Rogers and Updike. Oh, and
    I believe, Stanley Morrison, who did the later revivals with Monotype England,
    despised Goudy and his work. (I like some of Goudy.)  \r\n\r\nSo your idea about
    Kennerley leading the way for old style revivals isn't consistent with the facts
    of book history. And by the 20s, I know I can find many, many ads in Caslon. Not
    least in The New Yorker, which started in 1926, if I remember rightly. And it
    used in its text Linotype Caslon Old Face\u2014not Kennerley. And it still uses
    versions of Caslon, including, er, mine.  So John's story of the Velvet Underground
    is very much on point, with Morris as the Velvet Underground, Rogers and Updike
    as in the first wave of those influenced, and popular taste in advertising following.
    And Caslon had it own momentum, apart from Goudy.  "
  created: '2014-02-25 20:50:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ps. I didn't say that Morris's revivals of Jenson were particularly readable.
    I don't think they were. My view is that part of the attraction of Caslon in particular,
    after its first 1844 book revival, was its readability. I think the subsequent
    creation of Old Style, the comments of DeVinne and later Updike lend credibility
    to this idea, which I argue in my Printing History article. I think Walker appreciated
    Caslon much more than Morris, whose influence was more general in the direction
    of the value of revivals.\r\n\r\nI am not disparaging the importance of advertising.
    But I do think it didn't drive the train of old style revival. Walker and Morris,
    Vogue Magazine, and then the book designers did.  "
  created: '2014-02-25 21:00:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, you introduced the idea of what was \u201Cfashionable\u201D and \u201Cwidely
    used\u201D.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t believe that it is high-handed to reject the idea
    that those qualities are represented by the small market of expensive books. Rather,
    it is elitist to base design history on that economic sector. \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    not advertising per se that I am suggesting represented fashion and usage during
    the \uFB01rst decade of the 20th century, but mass circulation publications, both
    culturally and economically.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-25 21:48:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "http://www.flickr.com/photos/dezcom/3359793233/sizes/o/\r\n\r\nLife Magazine,
    1906."
  created: '2014-02-26 00:21:28'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Of course, that's <em>Caslon</em>, and we already know that Caslon was revived
    before Morris got started. If I'm wrong, and it's Phemister's oldstyle... I see
    that his activity in the revival of oldstyles dates from the 1850s, which I think
    puts him ten years ahead of Morris, who was still only a student then.\r\n\r\nBut
    Caslon plus Phemister does not equal a full-scale revival movement that also encompasses
    Baskerville and Garamond and Bembo.\r\n\r\nSo even if your Life magazine page
    is not evidence of Morris influence on the masses, something remains to be accounted
    for that seems to point to Morris."
  created: '2014-02-26 03:46:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "@Bill: <em>You're right that I haven\u2019t studied magazines of the period.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    rest my case."
  created: '2014-02-26 16:22:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: On your historical case for Goudy instead of Morris being the 'game changer'
    on type revivals.  I think you're mixing up "resting," and "dead" :)
  created: '2014-02-26 19:01:25'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@William Berkson:\r\n<cite>You wrote:</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>\"You won\u2019t
    \uFB01nd true old style typefaces, other than sporadic Caslon, Golden Type knock-offs,</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    an example of Caslon in Life Magazine, and an example of a Golden Type knock-off
    in Ladies' Home Journal, do not add up to a refutation of what Nick Shinn wrote
    in that case. To claim otherwise risks making oneself look ridiculous. (Caslon,
    however, indeed may not have been \"sporadic\", as you noted - that is a valid
    point.)\r\n\r\nBut when did he say that, and can we accuse him of moving the goalposts?\r\n\r\nThe
    point is, it is true the \"real\" revivals, like Garamond and Baskerville from
    ATF, did post-date Goudy. That fact, though, doesn't mean he wins the argument,
    because it's been plausibly claimed that Morris influenced Goudy.\r\n\r\nThe  modern
    history of Garamond dates from 1825, when the French Imprimerie Nationale dug
    up the old Charactere de l'Universite. So the question is, what came of it prior
    to Kennerley?"
  created: '2014-02-26 19:49:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "How are all the revivals of Caslon, including by ATF, not 'real', but those
    of Garamond and Baskerville were 'real'? I don't understand what you mean by 'real'.
    \r\n\r\nAnd as to 'sporadic,' I didn't just refer to Life. I mentioned Vogue,
    which both Lawson and MacGrew say led to popularity of Caslon in the US. And I
    mentioned both Bruce Rogers and D.B. Updike, who are said to have designed a lot
    of books in Caslon. But above all, I just can't believe all four major foundries
    were idiots spending huge time doing versions of Caslon for no demand. And Linotype
    spent four years 1919-23 doing specific drawings of every character in every size
    of Caslon. That is after Goudy's Kennerley, but I never heard that Chauncy Griffith
    at Linotype had any particular love for Goudy, and I don't even think they published
    a single Goudy design, though they did do revivals.  \r\n\r\nBy the way, who else
    besides Nick thinks that Kennerley drove the train? My view, that Walker and Morris
    led the change in taste, that Jenson revivals and Caslon came next, and the rest
    later climbing on the bandwagon is I think consistent with the view of other historians,
    and the facts that I know. Did Goudy ever say that his Kennerley influenced Linotype,
    Monotype, and ATF to do revivals? Is there any opinion from anybody of the time
    that says this? What's the evidence? \r\n\r\nBy the way, ATF, having done several
    Caslon revivals already, did a Bodoni revival\u2014Benton worked on it\u2014from
    1910 to 1911, when Goudy was working on Kennerley. That is not an old style, but
    it is a revival. The point is that the whole revival movement comes arguably from
    Walker and Morris, and the invention of the Pantographic Punch Cutter by Benton
    the father. The idea that it comes from Goudy, who was one of the followers, and
    specifically from Kennerley, is to me a non-starter. The ball had been rolling
    for 20 years by then. \r\n  "
  created: '2014-02-26 20:32:24'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I should have been more careful in indicating what I was seeking to clarify.\r\n\r\nI
    think it is a defensible position to take the series of revivals at Monotype,
    and note that they are clearly linked to the revivals of Garamond and Baskerville
    at ATF, but then to treat those revivals as a separate phenomenon from the revival
    of Caslon, which took place much earlier.\r\n\r\nBecause Caslon's revival took
    place so much earlier, it can't be the only cause of those later revivals. (And
    if it was, since Caslon's revival preceded Morris' activity, this would also disprove
    the claim that Morris was pivotal.)\r\n\r\nThat is all I meant when I referred
    to the later revivals as \"real\"; I meant they were the ones of interest, as
    part of a broad movement to revive numerous typefaces; I was not trying to disparage
    Caslon's revival.\r\n\r\nExcluding Caslon, which came along too early to be to
    Morris' credit, and excluding Morris' own specific revival, the Golden Type, we
    have a bunch of revivals that did take place in a post-Goudy time frame. People
    who didn't like Goudy's types (I like some of them, the most popular ones, but
    I admit I'm not myself a fan of much of his output) could still have been influenced
    by him at second hand.\r\n\r\nSo, to me, the question is: was there really a big
    gap when while there were some oldstyle types - Caslon, Jenson Oldstyle, and Phemister's
    Old Style - nothing much else happened until ATF revived Garamond and Baskerville,
    which would support, from a timing viewpoint, Nick Shinn's argument?\r\n\r\nOr
    were there other revivals, or at least other indications of interest in earlier
    typefaces, in the time span following Morris' Golden Type, that show that it wasn't
    just a flash in the pan that would have led nowhere until an important later event
    - such as Kennerley by Goudy. (If someone else takes Nick Shinn's point of view,
    but sees another person, instead of Goudy, as the one to credit, they're welcome
    to come forward.)"
  created: '2014-02-27 02:56:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "More on Kennerley as killer app:\r\n\r\nIt was Goudy\u2019s most successful
    type design, in terms of sales.\r\nSo it was huge.\r\nIt was the \uFB01rst American
    typeface to be sold in Europe (Monotype licensed it).\r\nIt was Goudy\u2019s \uFB01rst
    big commission.\r\nPrior to Kennerley the state of the art in antiqua or old style
    design was Caslon, \u201COld Style\u201D and some private press Jensons. Nothing
    new in the way of old.\r\n\r\nBut most importantly for the old style revivals
    that would follow, Kennerley presented a newly (or rediscovered) stringent concept
    of fit.\r\nAs Goudy described it, <em>\u201CWhat was wrong with Caslon? I had
    by this time decided that the pages presented a spotty appearance, largely due
    to the strong contrast in color between the capitals and the lower-case, and partly
    due to the wide \uFB01tting of the letters themselves, making it impossible to
    present each word as a compact unit, which I felt was desirable, for only if each
    word is a compact unit can close spacing between words be used.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nGoudy
    would subsequently employ this concept of tight \uFB01t in his Goudy Old Style,
    and in Italian Oldstyle, which took it to the max.\r\n\r\nYou can see it in the
    sequence \u201Cp_e_a\u201D <a href=\"http://f.cl.ly/items/1i1w3e2R0g172w023G36/Kennerley_CU.jpg\">here</a>.
    The pointedly diagonal stress which Goudy attributes to the old style enables
    these three letters to be butted up against one another, without creating a clot
    between \u201Cp\u201D and \u201Ce\u201D. That\u2019s how Jenson did it. And it\u2019s
    how Morris Benton did it in <a href=\"http://f.cl.ly/items/320Q240R3R442Y331p3j/Meal.png\">Cloister</a>,
    his Jenson.\r\n\r\nAs a new typeface which demonstrated a theoretical principle,
    I believe that Kennerley was instrumental in opening typographers\u2019 eyes to
    the look and potential of the old style. There were other related memes and connections
    in play too in the \uFB01rst few years of the century, such as the method of Edward
    Johnston with broad-pen lettering, in\uFB02uential on Eric Gill, who worked with
    St. John Hornby of the Ashendene Press, who also owned WH Smith & Sons, for whom
    Gill produced a corporate identity utilising a special \u201Cold style\u201D <a
    href=\"http://f.cl.ly/items/231e1j1D263G3W2P3b2v/Gill_Lettering.jpg\">lettering
    style</a> he designed. Again, note the combination of diagonal stress and tight
    \uFB01t.\r\n\r\nI rest my case\u2026\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-27 07:46:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I guess I haven't been sufficiently clear, so let me have a go at it
    again. Caslon got general notice after the revival by William Pickering, publisher,
    and Charles Whittington, printer at the Chiswick Press. The book that first got
    notice was Lady Willoughby's Diary, 1844. There were subsequent Chiswick Press
    editions using Caslon, but, and this is the important point, they were always
    of old books or books set in old times. They were used for antique effect. So
    far as know, nobody put them to general use for books, magazines, or for that
    matter advertising, before Walker brought them to attention of Morris, and through
    both their efforts to the rest of the English speaking world. \r\n\r\nFor Lady
    Willoughby's Diary, it was not strictly speaking a revival; it was actually actually
    old fonts of foundry type stored at the Caslon Foundry, pulled out after long
    neglect. The first time you have actual recutting of old types\u2014always with
    some changes\u2014is with Morris. And *immediately* (in 1893) you get ATF doing
    a Jenson/Morris knock-off. And as early at 1897 you get a Caslon recutting, and
    then a whole bunch of new versions of Caslon beginning in the new century. And
    they are being used in popular magazines, Vogue in 1892, and Life, as we have
    seen from at least 1906. Further, both Bruce Rogers and Daniel Berkeley Updike
    are using revival versions, including Rogers' custom version for the Riverside
    Press. And you have good Jensons with the Doves type (1901, I think) by Cobden-Anderson,
    who had worked with Morris, and Centaur (1913) from Rogers, who was originally
    inspired by Morris.  The actual recutting of old types with revisions, including
    at ATF only begins with Morris. That's why I say that he was the 'inflection point'.
    \r\n\r\nAnd Goudy is aware of all this, and specifically is trying to 'fix' Caslon
    in his Kennerley, as he says in Nick's quote. \r\n\r\nNow you have both a bunch
    of Caslons and Jensons by 1911, and the revival of Bodoni by ATF in 1910-11 by
    Benton. Then in 1913 you have Plantin, done at Monotype England. [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plantin_(typeface)|Here
    Frank Hinman Pierpont says]] the 1913 revival is because he saw the fonts displayed
    at the Plantin Moretus Museum. And you have Centaur also in 1913. Now you've already
    had real revivals rolling for twenty years. So what is the evidence that Pierpont
    and Rogers were influenced by Goudy's success? I suspect the answer is none. That's
    why the story of Goudy influencing Monotype England to do revivals is unconvincing
    to me. Also when you get Morrison on board, he and Goudy apparently did the Garamond
    revivals at the same time, and he disparaged both Garamont and Goudy. So was he
    influenced by Goudy? Not likely. \r\n\r\n    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-27 17:17:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I somehow missed Johan's (birdseeding) post above. Yes, Nick has a different
    concept of 'fashionable', applying to advertising. That is an interesting approach,
    and I look forward to reading his article. However, the spread of actual printing
    with revivals, even if advertising came later, does show that the revival train
    was chugging away before Goudy's work in 1911. I wasn't conflating different senses
    of 'fashionable' as not looking at advertising at all. So I am happy for Nick's
    notice of this work, and look forward to reading his article. But it doesn't change
    the type revival story in the late 19th and first half of the 20th century. Putting
    Goudy at the center, rather than Morris, I just don't think is supported by the
    evidence.  \r\n\r\nAs to fixing Caslon, absolutely everybody does it who has revived
    Caslon, including me. Generally people do reduce the weight of the caps, and do
    tighter spacing. I also reduced the weight of the caps (so did Carol Twombly for
    Adobe, but made them very tall), but for the text size I kept the looser spacing,
    as for me that was 'a feature, not a bug.' But as I have written, Caslon is a
    kind of Rorschach test for every revival of it: we see different 'good' Caslons
    and 'mistakes' in it. The same kind of thing happens with every revival, though
    probably more with pre-Baskerville types than after. "
  created: '2014-02-27 17:55:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: With regard to the Chiswick Press, I used to have a couple of their books
    from c.1904, i.e. after the influence of Kelmscott on the private press movement.
    They were set in a large size of Caslon, massively over-inked, presumably to make
    it look heavy like a Kelmscott type. Quite perverse.
  created: '2014-02-27 18:54:36'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@William Berkson:\r\n<cite>And Goudy is aware of all this, and specifically
    is trying to 'fix' Caslon in his Kennerley, as he says in Nick's quote.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    must be losing track here, because I thought Kennerley was a Jenson, not a Caslon.\r\n\r\nThe
    argument is that Goudy was the inflection point; so despite Stanley Morison being
    uninterested in Goudy, since the Monotype revivals were presumably triggered by
    the ATF revivals of Garamond and Baskerville... the question is whether or not
    Goudy was critical to <em>those</em> having happened, or whether they or something
    similar would have happened in any case because of the momentum started by Morris.\r\n\r\nMorris
    had followers, and <em>one</em> of them was Goudy. Already, Nick Shinn's argument
    is in deep trouble. <em>Unless</em> the efforts of Rogers, de Vinne, and so on
    would not have yielded much fruit by themselves, while Goudy alone among those
    Morris inspired had a major lasting influence.\r\n\r\nTo answer this question,
    I think we need to get into the mind of Linn Boyd Benton.\r\n\r\nIn researching
    this topic, I happen to have learned that de Vinne played a major role with respect
    to Century Expanded. <em>That</em> type becoming hugely popular would very likely
    have sent a message that a Baskerville revival was worthwhile without Goudy's
    help... this is the direction I think an argument aimed at refuting Nick Shinn's
    position must take."
  created: '2014-02-27 19:07:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John (Quadibloc). Yes, I always thought that Goudy did Goudy Old Style, not
    Kennerley, in an effort to update Caslon. But I don't have time to check on it,
    having spent entirely too much time on this thread, though it's been fun :)\r\n\r\nOh,
    DeVinne was involved in the original version of Century. I think all the later
    versions of Century are from Morris Fuller Benton, the son...\r\n\r\nJust skimming
    my article in Printing History, I had forgotten: Walker refers to DeVinne, so
    his Historic Printing Types\u2014an astonishingly astute evaluation of type for
    its time and [[https://archive.org/details/historicprinting00devirich|on the internet]]\u2014may
    have been the origin of the whole revival movement. The story may have been DeVinne
    to Walker to Morris to the world."
  created: '2014-02-27 19:59:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Gentlemen, you misrepresent me.\r\nI\u2019m not proposing Goudy as an instigator
    or in\uFB02ection point, whatever that is.\r\nI\u2019m simply asking why, if Morris
    was so influential, the old style revival took so long after Kelmscott to produce
    any new old style faces\u2014Caslon, as revival, having been around since Lady
    Willoughby.\r\nAnd Caslon is an 18th century design, not Renaissance or Medieval,
    which was really Morris\u2019 obsession.\r\n\r\nThe other antiquarian elements
    of Morris\u2019 graphic design had been well taken up.\r\nCan you deny that Kennerley
    was the \uFB01rst really successful new old style, in 1911?\r\nI think it\u2019s
    legitimate to term such success as \u201Cgame changer\u201D, and to connect it
    to Goudy\u2019s demonstration of smooth, tight \uFB01t, and in a face with Venetian
    \u201Ce\u201D\u2014that\u2019s about as old style as it gets!\r\n \r\nAnd if,
    Bill, you are going to assert that old styles had wide usage, surely that must
    mean in mass-circulation magazines and newspapers?\r\n\r\nWilliam Morris was a
    Great Man and makes a good academic narrative, but he didn\u2019t have a monopoly
    on nostalgia. He got into printing late in his career.\r\nThe idea that historic
    style was only used for historic documents is at odds with 19th century currents
    of design.\r\nIn the \uFB01eld of children\u2019s literature, for example, designer-illustrators
    such as Kate Greenaway and Randolph Caldecott were producing nostalgic graphic
    picture books before Kelmscott, some of them set in Caslon. The text and subject
    matter of these children\u2019s books was from earlier times, but their conception
    was contemporary, they were considered archetypal and ideal\u2014following a sentiment
    of anti-industrialization\u2014as the idea of progressive modernism had yet to
    emerge.\r\nAnd Walter Crane, for Edmund Evans, before his association with William
    Morris.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.randolphcaldecott.org.uk/imgbackc/MlkmdBackCvrRtldg1st.jpg\">This</a>
    from 1882.\r\n\r\nAnother parallel thread, in America, was that of Colonial revivalism.
    Well known in architecture, but not without cachet in print.\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-27 22:07:48'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Ah, here we are.\r\n\r\nKennerley is named after Michael Kennerley, having
    been designed for a book of short stories by H. G. Wells which he printed.\r\n\r\nIn
    \"Monotype: A Journal of Composing-Room Efficiency\", in the issue on-line which
    chronicles the origin of Kennerley, we have;\r\n\r\n\"During the fifty years that
    followed the revived use of Caslon's type by the Wittinghams there is little else
    to record about the designs of type used for printing books, until about the year
    1890, when William Morris set himself to design type, fired thereto by a lecture
    given by Mr. Emery Walker on the work of the early printers, to which he had listened.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    from \"British Types for Printing Books\" by B. H. Newdigate in \"The Art of the
    Book\", reprinted therein as \"History of Book Types & Fonts of Some Private Presses\".\r\n\r\nThat
    book also notes that originally Caslon was considered for the book, but Goudy
    sought a typeface that would give a darker color to the page without making the
    letters bolder, and this he achieved through the close fit of the letters in Kennerley.\r\n\r\nAnd
    from that I've learned something else, unless we're dealing with a different typeface
    of the same name. I thought Imprint was a revised Caslon by the British Monotype
    firm, but that article says:\r\n\r\n\"One or two admirable faces of type have,
    however, been produced by the Lanston Monotype Company for setting by the monotype
    machine. One of these is the 'Imprint' type, adapted from one of the founts used
    by Christopher Plantin, the famous printer of Antwerp, in the late sixteenth century.\"\r\n\r\nAh:
    I see I may have been mixed up; the American firm was the Lanston Monotype Machine
    Company, while the British firm was the Lanston Monotype Corporation, according
    to \"Anatomy of a Typeface\". So that could have been either... or Lawson could
    have gotten it slightly wrong too.\r\n\r\nAlso, the first Benton revival, of Bodoni,
    dated from 1909, which makes it relatively close to Morris."
  created: '2014-02-28 13:24:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, that's that's interesting about the Children's books. I didn't know
    Caslon had been used there. \r\n\r\nYou ask:  \"if Morris was so influential,
    the old style revival took so long after Kelmscott to produce any new old style
    faces\u2014Caslon, as revival, having been around since Lady Willoughby.\"\r\n\r\nI
    think our disagreement is may be due to meaning different things by 'revival'.
    A recutting or fairly close reinterpretation of a specific older face to me is
    a revival. So Kennerley is not a revival, it is a new face, not taken directly
    from any single model\u2014as his Garamont was intended to be. Why only then was
    a new design in the old style made? That's because designers as original as Goudy
    are rare. I do see your point that he was taking old styles a new direction, and
    he was influential that way. That's fair enough, but I don't think Kennerley or
    for that matter Goudy Old Style are revivals of any specific typeface.\r\n\r\nCaslon's
    revivals came after Morris, the way I mean revival. Before that it was just reusing
    Caslon for limited purposes. After Morris, you have recuttings and reinterpretations,
    not just re-use. And yes, you have use in mass-circulation magazines such as Vogue
    and Life, which I don't think was true before, and that has been my main point.
    Also books count too, including those of Rogers and Updike. Newspapers have been
    on their own track for a long time, and I'm doubtful that those adopted any old
    styles until Times New Roman.\r\n\r\nAlso I wrote initially in this thread about
    revivals of old type, not only old style. The Bodoni revival by Benton is part
    of the movement started by Morris, even though he hate Bodoni. The influence of
    Morris to me isn't his specific aesthetic, but both the idea of revivals, and
    the high art of the Kelmscott Chaucer, which raised the bar on people's ambitions
    for what could be done with books.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-28 21:16:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "That quote is wrong, Imprint is a modified Caslon, with shorter descenders
    and more uniformity in design. By the way, the date\u20141912 or 13\u2014and the
    involvement of Edward Johnston, according to the Jaspert encyclopedia of typefaces,
    indicates to me that, again, the leading model was Caslon, and the question, which
    Goudy was also asking, was how to improve on it. Imprint is still a very impressive
    face, if a little dull. "
  created: '2014-02-28 21:28:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Chris. Yes, I see looking at McGrew that Linotype's Caslon (not Caslon
    Oldface) was in 1903, and Intertype, a competitor to Linotype had one at the same
    time. So the Life Magazine is probably in one of those. As to what is \"fashionable,\"
    Nick, I haven't done a study of the advertising of that day, but if Vogue used
    a Caslon in 1892 and Life magazine was using it in 1906, I would say that is probably
    evidence of its further use in text of magazines. By 'fashionable' I meant, as
    I indicated above, that it was regarded as 'cool' by taste leaders of the time,
    such as the owners of Vogue, who wanted to use a real old style (not Phemister's
    Old Style, which DeVinne had slammed in Historical Printing Types). As to its
    use in advertising, which I grant you is also a kind of 'fashionable' I don't
    know. \r\n\r\nYou're right that I haven't studied magazines of the period, but
    your story, above is very off target. You wrote:\r\n\r\n\"You won\u2019t \uFB01nd
    true old style typefaces, other than sporadic Caslon, Golden Type knock-offs,
    and Della Robbia, widely used in the U.S. mass media until Goudy\u2019s Kennerley
    in 1911 (not a revival), which was the game changer. In the UK, Imprint (1913)
    appears to have been the \uFB01rst new old style.\"\r\n\r\nCaslon was not \"sporadic\".
    On the contrary there was a race to have it, with all the leading foundries\u2014ATF,
    Linotype, Monotype, Intertype\u2014having to have it, and actually even multiple
    versions, before Kennerley was drawn. And we know of at least two popular magazines
    that were using it. And by the effort the foundries put into it, I would still
    bet that there was much wider use as well in books and the text of magazines.
    In any case, Kennerley was not a \"game changer\". Indeed, as you said, Goudy
    was trying to do an old style to improve on Caslon, which was already by 1911
    seen as one of the best models.  The game changers were Walker and Morris. \r\n\r\nHere
    is the testimony in 1920 (from my article, and thanks to Peterson's prior research)
    of Charles T. Jacobi, who was for long editor of the Chiswick Press, which had
    first revived and used Caslon extensively, though for an antique look: \"the excellent
    design of these different founts was not generally appreciated until about the
    year 1888, when the Arts and Crafts Society first came into existence, and Mr.
    Emery Walker was perhaps more responsible than anyone else for making known this
    series of faces.\" Walker was the innovator in seeing old styles as suitable for
    contemporary use, but the famous Morris, who took up the lance, was the force
    that spread the idea.  "
  created: '2014-02-28 23:06:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, that's that's interesting about the Children's books. I didn't know
    Caslon had been used there. \r\n\r\nYou ask:  \"if Morris was so influential,
    the old style revival took so long after Kelmscott to produce any new old style
    faces\u2014Caslon, as revival, having been around since Lady Willoughby.\"\r\n\r\nI
    think our disagreement is may be due to meaning different things by 'revival'.
    A recutting or fairly close reinterpretation of a specific older face to me is
    a revival. So Kennerley is not a revival, it is a new face, not taken directly
    from any single model\u2014as his Garamont was intended to be. Why only then was
    a new design in the old style made? That's because designers as original as Goudy
    are rare. I do see your point that he was taking old styles a new direction, and
    he was influential that way. That's fair enough, but I don't think Kennerley or
    for that matter Goudy Old Style are revivals of any specific typeface.\r\n\r\nCaslon's
    revivals came after Morris, the way I mean revival. Before that it was just reusing
    Caslon for limited purposes. After Morris, you have recuttings and reinterpretations,
    not just re-use. And yes, you have use in mass-circulation magazines such as Vogue
    and Life, which I don't think was true before, and that has been my main point.
    Also books count too, including those of Rogers and Updike. Newspapers have been
    on their own track for a long time, and I'm doubtful that those adopted any old
    styles until Times New.\r\n\r\nAlso I wrote initially in this thread about revivals
    of old type, not only old style. The Bodoni revival by Benton is part of the movement
    started by Morris, even though he hate Bodoni. The influence of Morris to me isn't
    his specific aesthetic, but both the idea of revivals, and the high art of the
    Kelmscott Chaucer, which raised the bar on people's ambitions for what could be
    done with books.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-02-28 23:10:43'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I think it's very important for typefaces to be beautiful instead of ugly,
    and to be readable. But I don't think it's necessary for a type to be an old style
    instead of a modern to have these attributes.\r\n\r\nAs I've noted, the earlier
    Scotch Romans were wider and darker in color, and thus pleasing, but the narrower
    and lighter ones that came later are the ones I did not like. Century Expanded,
    while it has some transitional characteristics - its serifs are bracketed - is
    basically an attractive Scotch Roman.\r\n\r\nWhy were the unattractive Scotch
    Romans tolerated for so long?\r\n\r\nThere are many possible answers.\r\n\r\nInitially,
    the Scotch Roman faces took over because they did not include the long s; at the
    time, if a book was set in Caslon, it kept the long s.\r\n\r\nMaybe the Scotch
    Romans looked nice to the people at the time; judging things by current aesthetic
    standards may be wrong.\r\n\r\nThe Scotch Romans became narrower to save space;
    given the cost of paper and printing, those faces were in use because books set
    in the kinds of face we would prefer would not be competitive.\r\n\r\nI suspect
    the third answer is what explains the situation, deplorable to our eyes, continuing
    for so long - and the first is also true, explaining how it got started.\r\n\r\nIf
    Scotch Romans were what people were used to, and the initial designs were attractive
    and readable, why not just go back to them when economic conditions changed, and
    people could afford to pay more for paper and ink to spare themselves eyestrain?\r\n\r\nTo
    me, <em>that's</em> the question that I find perplexing. And thus, I don't find
    it too odd that William Morris may get the credit for the oldstyle revival. If
    economic conditions made room for more attractive types, and printers who filled
    that demand wanted their types which used more ink and paper to be <em>visibly</em>
    different, so they would get the credit for what they were doing that added to
    the cost of their product -\r\n\r\nthat is, when you make something more expensive,
    you want customers to be able to see at a glance that they're getting better quality
    for their money -\r\n\r\nthen instead of using a more generously proportioned
    Scotch Roman, they will seize on any model they have to hand for a text type that
    people will accept even though it's distinguishable at a glance from what they're
    used to.\r\n\r\nEven if it's a Jenson previously used by the most elite and eccentric
    of private presses! Or, in the opposite direction, a pseudo-oldstyle that sticks
    a few of the features of Caslon on a Scotch Roman body - to take a more jaundiced
    view of the Phemister oldstyle than I normally feel justfied in taking.\r\n\r\nKennerley
    is more of a Jenson than the Golden Type and its Jenson Oldstyle imitator were.
    So it contributed to the later Cloister Oldstyle to some extent, I'm sure. It
    was used in books, and to our eyes today, it looks like something worth using
    in a book - unlike Jenson Oldstyle and Phemister Old Style, for different reasons.
    But while it was <strong>the first modern revival</strong>, since Jenson Oldstyle
    already made Jenson visible, ATF could well have made something very like Cloister
    anyways; they knew what Jenson really looked like, and given that the Ladies'
    Home Journal would even use Jenson Oldstyle, there was a demand out there for
    distinctive premium body copy faces, which typefounders could most easily fill
    with revivals.\r\n\r\nSo I feel I'm now in agreement with Nick Shinn on <em>two</em>
    points:\r\n\r\nKennerly was the first really successful new old style.\r\n\r\nWilliam
    Morris' immediate direct influence on popular culture was limited. (As the Ladies'
    Home Journal shows, not nonexistent, but his influence at least took time to be
    felt.)\r\n\r\nCheltenham was a typeface widely used in advertising in the time
    period of interest. Cheltenham and Bookman (also by Phemister) are typefaces that
    have stayed around; Cheltenham was in the Kelsey catalog, and it was on phototypesetters.
    Bookman was on phototypesetters, and it was one of the earliest typefaces to be
    made available for laser printers, back when laser printer fonts were made of
    dots instead of outlines.\r\n\r\nWhile Kennerley dates from 1911 (from ATF? or
    did people buy fonts direct from Goudy?) it wasn't until 1920 that it was available
    <em>on Monotype composing machines</em>. That's when the popular taste got ahold
    of Kennerley, and sent a loud and clear signal that Kennerley was preferred to
    Cheltenham or Bookman as a text face replacement for Scotch Roman.\r\n\r\nOops.
    Benton revived Bodoni in 1909, and Garamond in 1917. So although I think the real
    pivotal influence is a change in economic conditions, this seems to point away
    from Goudy as being the inflection point.\r\n\r\nExcept, of course, that Bodoni
    and Garamond also took time to make the jump to the composing machine... so there
    could still have been earlier feedback from Kennerley from how popular it was
    with advertisers.\r\n\r\nOops. Kennerley was from 1911. 1909 is before 1911."
  created: '2014-03-01 02:06:02'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "The revival of <em>Bodoni</em> by Benton interested many people at the time.
    In France, the Parisian publisher Gallimard got a license to use Benton's <em>Bodoni</em>
    for their Collection Blanche* book started in 1911.\r\n\r\n* White Collection."
  created: '2014-03-01 10:16:59'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I encountered this web page,\r\n\r\n[[http://www.clevelandart.org/research/in-the-library/collection-in-focus/frederic-william-goudy-glorifier-alphabet]]\r\n\r\nwhich
    quotes Goudy's obituary in the New York Times as taking a definite stance on the
    matter:\r\n\r\n<cite>Mr. Goudy did more to rescue typography from standardized
    ugliness than any other man since William Morris, whose spiritual descendant he
    was.</cite>"
  created: '2014-03-01 19:01:44'
- author:
    name: Fritz Swanson
  body: So, this is a great and lively discussion. Thanks for having it. I've been
    deep into reading about Morris, and like Fournier, I have also wondered about
    the extent of his influence. Because this thread has focused heavily on Type Design,
    I was wondering if anyone had more to say on Typography and book design, and Morris'
    impact there. Put more specifically, what impact did Hubbard and the Roycroft
    press have, if any, on the dissemination of the Morris book design theories? If
    the question is why did it take so many years to get from Morris (1896) to a lot
    of historicist design in later years, wouldn't Hubbard (and Dard Hunter, et al
    at the Roycroft press) also be part of that story? [The question is humbly submitted]
  created: '2014-03-23 02:14:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Incidentally, I came across something else that supports William Morris as
    being the major influence, with Goudy, among others, being inspired by him.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    Golden type has perhaps fared worse in being remodelled in the United States,
    whence, with much of its character lost, it has found its way back to England
    under the names 'Venetian,' 'Italian,' & 'Jenson.' It is strange that no one has
    yet had the good sense to have the actual type of Nicholas Jenson reproduced.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    that Kennerley was a Jenson, of course, makes me wonder if Goudy took the hint."
  created: '2014-03-23 15:03:51'
- author:
    name: Fritz Swanson
  body: The Roycroft Mark is essentially Jenson's printer's mark.
  created: '2014-03-24 01:31:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Fritz, just saw your question now. The book <em>The Kelmscott Press</em>
    by William S. Peterson includes a discussion of Hubbard and the Roycroft press.
    He said that it did have some impact, in spite of the books being ''tasteless''
    imitations, in Peterson''s view. May Morris referred to him as "that obnoxious
    imitator of my dear father." '
  created: '2014-03-29 17:42:12'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "Find another calligrapher/typeface designer impressed and influenced by the
    model of William Morris:\r\nEmil Rudolf Weiss."
  created: '2014-04-01 18:42:15'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Since Caslon was revived before Morris, while it's clear that Morris' own
    types were copied, that does indeed complicate the question of how much influence
    Morris had on the revivals of Baskerville and Garamond, and on the creation of
    such faces as Plantin or Poliphilus or Bembo.\r\n\r\nMorris' revivals of Jenson
    were outliers, after all.\r\n\r\nBut many of the earliest revivals - Cloister
    Old Style, Centaur - not only were Jenson revivals too, but they were clearly
    influenced by Morris' Golden Type. Not in the sense of their content, as with
    Jenson Oldstyle, but in the sense that he called further attention to the merits
    of the first Roman type.\r\n\r\nI did notice, though, a mention that the success
    of ATF's revival of Bodoni was one of the forces leading to Cloister Old Style.
    So there was an independent impetus to revival as well. Since the \"butterfly
    effect\" tells us history would turn out differently if even minor, seemingly
    irrelevant, things are changed, it's difficult to make the case that there was
    enough other impetus towards revival that without Morris it would still have happened
    the way it did.\r\n\r\nSo it could well be that if it weren't for William Morris,
    the Caslon revival and the Phemister old style would not have led to a Baskerville
    revival and then a Plantin revival... and so there would never have been a Times
    New Roman. (Despite it having been \"bigoted and narrow, mean and Puritan\" and
    thus not the sort of thing of which Morris would have approved, I suppose.)"
  created: '2014-04-01 22:52:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "And Emil Rudolf Weiss was the highly influential designer of Weiss Roman
    and Weiss Initials.\r\n\r\n@Nick Shinn:\r\n<cite>Can you deny that Kennerley was
    the \uFB01rst really successful new old style, in 1911?</cite>\r\n\r\nWe've seen
    that the Golden imitator Jenson Old Style has been used in mass-market advertising.
    In fact, I recently ran across another example of that or a similar face like
    Kelmscott in an advertisement for a typewriter -\r\n\r\n[[http://www.technocrazed.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/Historic-evolution-type-writer-49.jpg]]\r\n\r\nbut
    Kennerley, although presented as a new face, is much closer to an actual Jenson
    revival than Morris' Golden Type was.\r\n\r\nAnother (not, as I thought, earlier:
    Jenson Oldstyle goes back to at least 1896) type that achieved some success is
    one that I only recently learned of, Caslon Old Roman. Like Caslon Antique, formerly
    XV Century, despite its name, it is not a Caslon.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/elston_hesp_6697.jpg]\r\n\r\nInstead,
    although having features that associate it with its own time, thus dating it and
    preventing it from being popular today, it looks enough like a Jenson to be used
    in private press books that are aiming for, and that have success in achieving,
    that Morris look.\r\n\r\nThe Monotype catalog says that it was designed in the
    late 1890s for London's Caslon foundry, and it was in the Barnhart catalog for
    1903 before finding its way to ATF until at least 1923. For it to have made its
    way to (Lanston) Monotype indicates it must have had some success."
  created: '2014-04-01 23:30:57'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "In the book <em>Types of the DeVinne Press</em>, dated 1907, reference is
    made to Renner, a typeface cut at the Bruce typefoundry at the request of the
    DeVinne press in 1899.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Renner_5328.jpg]\r\n\r\nSo
    this is apparently a revival which predates the other revivals (excluding Caslon)
    discussed in this thread.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, found\r\n\r\n[[http://www.paulshawletterdesign.com/2012/09/book-review-type-revivals/]]\r\n\r\nthis
    scathing review of a book on type revivals; I'm trying to look up Basle Roman.
    as well as the book typeset by Franz Renner, but haven't found them.\r\n\r\n(EDIT:
    I've found Basle Roman now; I'm not sure if I would call it a revival -\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Basle_5358.jpg]\r\n\r\nbut
    in any case, I'm happy to have found it. However, I've noticed it's hard to see
    what that type looked like from the sample, so here's one on a larger scale:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Basle2_5022.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    it is stated to have been derived from a sixteenth-century type by Froben according
    to search results other than the one that led me to The Wife's Manual, where it
    was (believed to have been) first  used.\r\n\r\nAnd this thread\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/56292]]\r\n\r\nhas
    an image of Froben's actual type; there's also a very accessible one\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Froben_4465.jpg]\r\n\r\nin
    Updike)\r\n\r\nIndeed, though, this now fleshes out the story that this thread
    discussed.\r\n\r\nFor a while, Caslon was the near-universal choice for text printing.\r\n\r\nThen
    Baskerville came along, and produced some books of very high quality, and a typeface
    cut to a high standard of mechanical perfection.\r\n\r\nThis was succeeded by
    the dark days of Scotch Roman.\r\n\r\nDuring those days, Phemister Old Style appeared,
    but that should, I think, be counted as a new face with older characteristics.\r\n\r\nThen
    the Chiswick Press revived Caslon and printed The Diary of Lady Willoughby.\r\n\r\nSubsequently,
    the Chiswick Press also produced a type in the Venetian style, Basle Roman. William
    Morris used  it when working there; two of his books, A Tale of the House of the
    Wolflings and The Roots of the Mountains, were set in it, but it was used several
    years before that. It was cut by William Howard.\r\n\r\nThen William Morris founded
    the Kelmscott Press, and his Golden Type as well as Troy/Chaucer were widely imitated.\r\n\r\nYet
    another Venetian was revived - this time named after the type designer, as became
    the habit for revivals - by the De Vinne Press. Renner - in 1899.\r\n\r\nLater,
    in 1911, Goudy produced Kennerly, which to my eyes is definitely a Jenson.\r\n\r\nThis
    fuller story makes clear that while Morris and Goudy were indeed very influential,
    no doubt contributing greatly to the popularity of revivals, there were others
    interested in reviving old faces who did not wait for the additional impetus these
    two men provided to the activity. Before Morris, there was Basle Roman; after
    Morris, but before Goudy, there was Renner, so the existence of revivals other
    than the Chiswick Caslon revival was not <em>completely</em> dependent on either
    of them, though doubtless without them it would have taken much longer."
  created: '2014-04-10 23:04:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026the dark days of Scotch Roman\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nWhat the Dickens?!\r\nThe
    Scotch was, and is, a brilliant design.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of revivals, blackletter
    (\u201CBlacks\u201D, as Fry, amomg others, termed it) was prominent in the early
    19th century, both signifying antiquity and performing the function of bold contrast
    to roman text, in multi-font layouts. That function was taken over by slab serif,
    clarendon, sans, and extra-bold scotches. As a decorated display style, it was
    superceded by novel decorated styles (see Nicolette Gray)."
  children:
  - author:
      name: quadibloc
      picture: 118515
    body: "<cite>The Scotch was, and is, a brilliant design.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, I
      shouldn't echo Updike when I don't really agree with him. The early Scotch Roman
      faces from around 1850 were beautiful, and it wasn't until later that the drive
      for economy in printing led to some Scotch Romans being overly condensed, overly
      light, and in other ways giving the face a bad name.\r\n\r\nHowever, that period
      was dark for typography for other reasons. If you didn't want to use Scotch
      Roman for body text on one occasion, your other choices were the Phemister Old
      Style - not a bad face - or some faces called French Old Styles.\r\n\r\nThe
      additional choices that became available some time after the revival of Caslon
      and Morris' Golden Type (which I've learned is based on a face by Jacob Rubeus,
      not Jenson after all) immeasurably enriched typography, even before Baskerville
      and Garamond became available once again."
    created: '2014-04-11 01:12:53'
  created: '2014-04-10 23:19:43'
date: '2014-02-23 14:53:56'
node_type: forum
title: The William Morris Legacy on Typography

---
