---
author:
  name: winge
  picture: 109439
body: "There is a fairly wide range of neo-Latin literature from the sixteenth century
  onwards which today is only available in print in the form of POD facsimiles, often
  made from scans of questionable quality. In those cases where someone has taken
  the effort to typeset a (hopefully) proofread OCR text, the state of the typography
  is often disappointing (not seldom Times New Roman, without hyphenation and with
  very narrow margins). For a long time I have been contemplating preparing my own
  editions of a couple of texts that are of particular interest to me, and, even though
  this would be very much a labour of love, I hope that a carefully edited and typeset
  text will be of interest to others as well. To this end, I am prepared to invest
  in a high quality font that would serve me in this project, and also in general
  in the future: I'm very much an amateur when it comes to design and typesetting,
  and do not have a large font library at my disposal, if any.\r\n\r\nSo, I am looking
  for a general purpose typeface, most probably in a renaissance style. Some features
  that are essential or that particularly appeal to me are:\r\n<ul><li>Carefully designed
  polytonic Greek: though I suppose this need could theoretically be solved with another,
  complementing font, I would greatly prefer to have it included.</li>\r\n<li>Small
  caps goes without saying, I suppose. In general, a wide range of OpenType features
  would be fun to play with, such as archaic ligatures for instance. (I also want
  old style numerals, but I suppose it would be difficult to find a font that fulfils
  all other criteria but not that one.)</li>\r\n<li>Optical sizes would be awesome
  (for footnotes especially, but for titles as well, of course).</li>\r\n<li>I am
  very much sympathetic to the sentiments expressed in [[http://typophile.com/node/51171|this
  thread]] regarding the weight of body text. In other words, nothing too light, or
  too thin hairlines.</li>\r\n<li>As I am considering using XeTeX or LuaTeX, the font
  should work well with it.</li></ul>\r\n\r\nAs you probably guess from the title,
  I'm strongly considering Arno Pro: elegant and unobtrusive, yet in my opinion edgy
  and modern in its character compared to, say, Bembo and Adobe Garamond, it fulfils
  most of my desires. There are a couple of small things that are less than ideal,
  however:\r\n<ul><li>I actively dislike those wide guillemets, and I see that [[http://typophile.com/node/74608|I
  am not alone]].</li>\r\n<li>Not sure about the Th ligature; I would prefer a non-connected
  variant as an alternative. A regular T+h will probably be too wide?</li>\r\n<li>Not
  a deal breaker, but I prefer the inverted breve variant of the Greek circumflex
  accent. If I have to choose between tilde variants, I prefer them more wavy. Unfortunately,
  Arno Pro has very straight, flat tilde-shaped Greek circumflexes.</li></ul>\r\n\r\nMy
  question to you now is: are there any other, similar typefaces that come to mind,
  that you think I should consider? Spending hundred of dollars on a typeface is nothing
  I usually do, and I would hate regretting it later on, so I'm sure you understand
  my trepidation. Any advice is very welcome!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: "Interesting project! To me Arno Pro sounds like a good option for the purpose
    (though I didn't buy it in the end). As for the guillemets: If you go for some
    TeX variant, you can easily swap them out by redefining those two glyphs (and,
    btw, how many guillemets are present in your 16th century prints?) \u2013 the
    same goes for combining marks like the circumflexes you mention. \r\nYou could
    also try a few alternatives and typeset a sample page in different text faces
    before really deciding in which font to invest. \r\n(Most of which is a bit far
    off from your original question asking for alternatives, which others will be
    offering\u2026)"
  created: '2014-03-03 14:44:06'
- author:
    name: nicolacaleffi
    picture: 126385
  body: "Johan,\r\n\r\nArno looks like a strong candidate for your purpose. A more
    historically accurate typeface, with the same features (multiple sizes, greek)
    is Garamond Premier Pro. Also, you should consider Sabon (an evergreen, but no
    display size and the Greek available as a separate font). Or the more expensive
    Sabon Next - with a display cut but no Greek set. Finally, I would also consider
    HFJ Requiem - a superb Renaissance revival with optical sizes (but again no Greek
    set). Anyway, I don't know how / if these fonts work with XeTeX or LuaTeX. Hope
    this helps!"
  created: '2014-03-04 13:57:15'
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: "[[http://www.rosettatype.com/Skolar|Skolar]]? Not very renaissance, but it
    covers even a bit more than you need (as an investment in future multiscript typesetting?),
    and it works well in both in display and body copy sizes (no optical sizes, though).\r\nConcerning
    Xe(La)TeX and Lua(La)TeX, I guess that\u2019s doable with any current OpenType
    family. Just beware of encoding issues and UTF-8 support for packages you will
    need\u2026"
  created: '2014-03-04 21:44:15'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "Arno and Garamond Premier Pro are safe bets that you are likely not to feel
    sorry for choosing. Skolar feels too contemporary for me. Some more typefaces
    that support polytonic Greek (in order of my personal preference):\r\n\r\n\u2013
    <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/huronia/index.html\">Huronia Pro</a> by Ross Mills
    (Tiro Typeworks; only the \u2018Professional\u2019 version, available directly
    from Tiro, features polytonic Greek)\r\n\u2013 <a href=\"http://www.brill.com/about/brill-fonts\">Brill</a>
    by John Hudson (make sure to read the EULA)\r\n\u2013 <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/adobe/minion_pro_complete_pack/ot_ps?&fg=000000&bg=ffffff&sample_size=70&sample_text=%E1%BC%90%CF%80%CE%B9%CF%87%CE%B5%CE%B9%CF%81%CE%AE%CE%BC%CE%B1%CF%84%CE%BF%CF%82&ft=liga\">Minion</a>
    by Robert Slimbach (Adobe; with optical sizes)\r\n\u2013 <a href=\"http://store1.adobe.com/cfusion/store/html/index.cfm?event=displayFontPackage&code=1950\">Adobe
    Text</a> by Robert Slimbach (Adobe)\r\n\u2013 <a href=\"http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&id=gentium\">Gentium
    Plus</a> by Victor Gaultney (SIL International)\r\n\u2013 <a href=\"http://www.signographie.de/cms/front_content.php?idcat=35\">Andron</a>
    by Andreas St\xF6tzner (SIAS)\r\n\u2013 <a href=\"http://www.type-together.com/Alverata\">Alverata</a>
    by Gerard Unger (TypeTogether)\r\n\r\nYou might also want to go through <a href=\"http://myfonts.us/td-hBEWAu\">this
    list</a> at MyFonts to see if there is anything else that suits your needs. Typotheque
    has some interesting options."
  created: '2014-03-04 22:56:41'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>For a long time I have been contemplating preparing my own editions
    of a couple of texts that are of particular interest to me, and, even though this
    would be very much a labour of love, I hope that a carefully edited and typeset
    text will be of interest to others as well.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI'll get to Arno.
    If you're going to this trouble, there are things that need considerations first.\r\n\r\nYou
    haven't said whether print or digital editions. And if print, whether to be printed
    on a high-resolution offset press, or a laser printer. I'd include on-demand publishing
    as laser. (And for <cite>text</cite>, I know of no \"satisfying\" laser printing,
    including on-demand books. YMMV)\r\n\r\nOK, if this is for yourself, things get
    interesting. You can make a pdf version of the texts, optimized to be displayed
    on a particular devise, e.g., Kindle Fire (approximately a 7-inch diagonal, 22
    x 36 pica screen), etc. To be optimal, an iPad would need a slightly different
    design, as would any of the phones. The good news is that for simple texts --
    not many images -- it doesn't take long to reset the text in a slightly different
    format.\r\n\r\nIf this is your model, make up some test documents and decide.\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I'm concerned, the things that bother one about published fonts on digital
    devices will vary considerably, depending on how it will be displayed. Some of
    the new tablets approach 300 dpi resolution, and they'll only get better. The
    computer monitor, though, remains quite coarse.\r\n\r\nI haven't done any testing
    with Arno on a tablet, but would guess it will work OK. There really is a need
    to test, though.\r\n\r\nPrint is different. When Arno first came out, I loved
    it, and designed several books using the font. These were printed 2,400 dpi using
    an offset press, on an uncoated sheet. That paper is typical for bookwork that
    has no art.\r\n\r\n I was very disappointed with the result -- though the \"very\"
    was in large part due to expectations. Other books by me and other designers confirmed
    it wasn't just my designs (type size, leading, margins, etc).\r\n\r\nIn my opinion,
    the font as published is a bit too heavy when printed on uncoated papers, using
    current manufacturing technologies. You could make a slightly lighter version
    of the fonts, a fair amount of work -- the amount the weight needs to be dropped
    is not much, but there are a lot of characters. Easiest would be to convince Adobe
    of the problem, as they no doubt have Arno set up as a multiple master, and could
    make a \"direct-to-plate with uncoated paper\" weight pretty quickly. The trick
    would be to convince them this is a big enough market -- printed books -- to be
    worth the effort.\r\n\r\nGood luck with that -- most of Adobe's fonts seem designed
    for laser printing (normal wight) or a coated sheet offset (medium weight).\r\n\r\nIf
    you really want to go to the effort of a private publication, you may have to
    start with custom fonts. Perhaps some here could comment on cheaper font editing
    software, hiring a professional to do an entire font family would be very expensive,
    and you don't need that level of expertise.\r\n\r\nBTW, we used Arno for an intermediate-level
    Greek textbook (not my design), and the author insisted on using the \"inverted
    breve\" rather than the \"tilde\" for the Greek circumflex. Took about an hour
    to change all the needed characters in roman, italic and bold, including the small
    cap variants...\r\n\r\nEtc."
  created: '2014-03-05 00:28:01'
- author:
    name: Cuboctaedro
    picture: 127107
  body: "First I want to say that I like the idea of your project. Actually I am working
    on something very similar but for a different time period (19th century science
    fiction and fantasy). Proofreading OCR texts takes time but I think its worth
    doing it. \r\n\r\nAs for the typeface: If you insist on using the same typeface
    for polytonic Greek then you are practically stuck with Adobe. Arno, Garamond
    Premier, Minion and Warnock. Frantisek Storm and Type Together have made some
    great Greek fonts but they do not support polytonic.\r\n\r\nThen there is Skolar
    as already mentioned. I have not used it, it looks great although not historically
    \"correct\" for your project.\r\n\r\nHere is a  [[http://www.polytoniko.org/fonts.php?newlang=en|list]]
    of fonts that support polytonic Greek including some Greek foundries, maybe you
    can find something more here."
  created: '2014-03-09 10:29:22'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "> If you insist on using the same typeface for polytonic Greek then you are
    practically stuck with Adobe.\r\n\r\nNo you are not.\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re welcome
    to have a look at [[http://www.signographie.de/cms/front_content.php?idart=215&changelang=2|Andron]].
    It shall meet most of your requirements, more or less. Optical sizes do exist,
    althought they are not (yet) released to the public. If you have any questions
    \u2013 contact me."
  created: '2014-03-23 11:50:48'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Even Cambria, which comes with Windows, supports polytonic Greek.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I see that Junicode, intended for medievialists, includes not only extensive Latin
    support, but also polytonic Greek as well. There's also Gentium and DejaVu Serif.\r\n\r\nBut
    some other faces that I thought were alternatives don't work.\r\n\r\nThe free
    fonts of the Greek Font Society are Greek-only. TeX Gyre Pagella does not support
    polytonic Greek."
  created: '2014-03-24 12:33:23'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I had edited my post. The Character Map in Windows showed the GFS fonts with
    characters for nearly all of Unicode, including Chinese characters, even though
    it doesn't do this with other fonts. So I thought they were dumped on top of an
    open-source full-Unicode font.\r\n\r\nBut with BabelMap, I could see those characters
    weren't there; as you note, Latin is - but it's usually Helvetica, not matching
    whatever the Greek typeface is, although there are exceptions. So I should have
    continued to say that they would be regarded as effectively Greek-only.\r\n\r\nI
    had thought I'd made a worse mistake in my post, confusing Gentium with Cambria."
  created: '2014-03-24 13:27:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>The free fonts of the Greek Font Society are Greek-only. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nUnless
    they've changed these in the past year, there is at least minimal Latin support
    in most GFS fonts. The problem is, since an italic is not a variant in Greek,
    few of the GFS fonts have both a roman and an italic counterpart. Some do, though.\r\n\r\nA
    second problem is that most GFS revivals of older fonts suffer from the same thin,
    spindly letterforms you find with most revivals generally, be they Latin or Greek.\r\n\r\nEdit:
    Also if a font license allows, making up the extra characters in 1FXX might be
    a bit time consuming, but all you really need, as far as new characters go, are
    a few accents and the YPOGEGRAMMENI -- not at all hard to do. "
  created: '2014-03-24 13:38:22'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: The font images at the [[http://www.greekfontsociety.gr/|Greek Font Society
    website]] should give an idea of the fonts' coverage.
  created: '2014-03-24 15:19:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I\u2019ve published a couple of types with Polytonic Greek, in a mid-19th
    century style.\r\nGreek in a Scotch style has many of the high-contrast qualities
    of the much-loved \u201CHapla\u201D (Monotype Greek 90). The Scotch Modern, with
    its hairlines, is well-suited to the \uFB01ne details of polytonic accents and
    breathings.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/shinn/scotch-modern/\">Scotch
    Modern</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/shinn/figgins-sans/\">Figgins
    Sans</a>"
  created: '2014-03-24 20:01:09'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>But with BabelMap, I could see those characters weren't there;
    as you note, Latin is - but it's usually Helvetica, not matching whatever the
    Greek typeface is, </blockquote>\r\n\r\nOn the assumption GFS hasn't swapped in
    Helvetica for the designed Latin over the past couple years, no, whatever you're
    seeing must be the result of \"BabeMap.\" When present, the Latin characters in
    GFS fonts are usually drawn in the same style as the Greek.\r\n\r\nAs Reynir says,
    look at the samples. If that's not enough, download them and open them with FontLab,
    FontForge, whatever.\r\n\r\nNone of this to esp. recommend the fonts. As with
    most revivals, the quality varies, and varies with different printing methods.
    But for people using a laser printer, there is some nice stuff here. Even with
    offset -- For polytonic Greek with several other fonts, I use Olga. Just a little
    change in size."
  created: '2014-03-24 21:30:08'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Of the three fonts I examined, BabelMap showed two as Greek-only, and one
    had a Latin face in the same typestyle as the Greek. It was only in Windows' Character
    Map that the Helvetica appeared in error.
  created: '2014-03-25 19:38:56'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "The fonts come installed with MacTeX 2013 (which is texlive 2013 for the
    mac).\r\n\r\nI ran a script using the AFDKO command tx to see the glyphs. You
    can have a look browsing the following folder\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/~boyer/typophile/GFS/\">http://www.iro.umontreal.ca/~boyer/typophile/GFS/</a>\r\n\r\nMichel"
  created: '2014-03-25 22:24:06'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: 'Sorry to veer from the strictly technical aspects of your question, Johan,
    but I''m wondering : why does the typeface you''ll be using have to be <cite>historically</cite>
    relevant to the text matter ? Your version will be done in 2014, why would you
    want to make it appear like a 16th-century pastiche ?'
  created: '2014-08-13 12:25:09'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'm thinking the preference for Arno Pro over Skolar is not aimed at making
    a \"16th-century pastiche\", but merely at making something not jarring to ordinary
    readers in the present time.  There are appropriate circumstances for using a
    typeface that is ostentatiously contemporary and daringly avant-garde, and there
    are other circumstances where using something to suit conservative reading tastes
    is preferable.\r\n\r\nHowever, having said that, Arno Pro <em>is</em> a Jenson
    revival, and Skolar, while clearly designed with post-2000 styling, is a readable
    face entirely suitable to general text use. So your point may be more valid than
    it at first appeared to me.\r\n\r\nCarefully reading the original post, it simply
    said \"most probably in a renaissance style\". But Arno Pro was acceptable despite
    being \"edgy and modern\".\r\n\r\nThe project is to produce editions of texts
    from an early period, and so the dignity of a traditional face might seem fitting,
    just as a more contemporary face might be appropriate to a book with the latest
    developments in high technology as its topic. Yes, that is clich\xE9d, and Times
    Roman (or, for that matter, Caledonia or Century Expanded... or Palatino) could
    serve in both contexts - at least it's to his credit he wishes to avoid that.\r\n\r\nIf
    one <em>really</em> wanted to do a 16th-century pastiche, though, Arno Pro would
    not be suitable; one would need to go with Eusebius or Cloister Oldstyle or Poliphilus...
    even Bembo is too much of a just plain good text face to achieve a noticeable
    impression in that direction.\r\n\r\nThe reason many posters here advise against
    simply setting everything in Times Roman is because they believe that the choice
    of typeface <em>matters</em>, that it says something about the text or about one's
    intent with regard to the medium in which the text is distributed. If that is
    legitimate, then it is reasonable to go a tiny step further, and say that different
    typefaces establish different moods, different feelings, different atmospheres
    - and so it isn't sufficient merely to choose any typeface that is recognized
    as reputable or showing good taste. Instead, typefaces have associations, and
    one chooses a typeface with the associations one wishes to have accompany one's
    subject matter and one's product."
  created: '2014-08-14 19:20:15'
date: '2014-03-03 09:05:33'
node_type: forum
title: Considering Arno Pro. Other suggestions?

---
