---
author:
  name: Fournier
  picture: 126738
body: "I'd like to know the difference between a typographer and a type designer.\r\nCan
  you provide two definitions with examples, please?\r\nThanks in advance."
comments:
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "A type designer designs* typefaces. Example: Paul Renner.\r\n\r\nA typographer
    uses typefaces. Example: <a href=\"http://typographerryangosling.tumblr.com/\">Ryan
    Gosling</a>\r\n\r\n*Sometimes he also uses typefaces, in which case he is a typographer
    and a type designer."
  created: '2014-03-07 11:04:54'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: So the typographer is a kind of a graphic artist or type setter.
  created: '2014-03-07 11:28:04'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I would never have expected that Fournier would ask such a question.  :)\r\n\r\n(Renner
    was both type designer and typographer, possibly more active as typographer.)\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-07 12:27:05'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "There is a distinction to be made between typesetter and typographer.\r\n\r\nA
    typesetter can be anyone who merely types in the words and may have little-to-no
    typographical experience or knowledge. A person who sets type for grocery ads,
    books or newspapers would be considered a typesetter.\r\n\r\nA typographer is
    someone who knows the intricacies of what makes type work, of what it takes to
    make type into a well-composed page. It is usually pretty easy to see the differences
    between a page composed by a typesetter and a page composed by a typographer.\r\n\r\nSo
    a typographer is not just a typesetter; it takes learning and years of experience
    to become a typographer. It is true to say that a typographer starts out as a
    typesetter and it is also true, as you wrote, that a typographer is a kind of
    graphic artist. Alone that same line, it is also true that not every graphic artist
    is a typographer.\r\n\r\nThe bottom line is that a typesetter is just a typesetter;
    a typographer is Best of Class."
  created: '2014-03-07 14:28:45'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I would love \u201Ctypographer\u201D to be a sign of quality, but I don\u2019t
    think that\u2019s necessarily the case. From what I\u2019m told, typographer used
    to be a protected title here in Norway. Not anymore. Now everyone is a typographer,
    just like everyone is a photographer. The tools are afforable and easy to use.
    There is no protected title. Off course, good work still requires experience and
    skills."
  created: '2014-03-07 15:58:40'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "@Frode, you are right; it is no longer protected, but if someone claims to
    be a typographer all one needs to do is see samples of their work. Quality shows
    and will tell the truth every time.\r\n\r\nJust like the democratization of type
    design, today anyone with the requisite software can be a \"type designer\". The
    same rules apply."
  created: '2014-03-07 17:47:46'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "\r\nWords can change their meaning or the the focus of their meaning depending
    on the context. \r\nIn a technical sense, yes, everyone who lays out some text
    in Microsoft Word is a typographer. He/she uses type to design a page. Quality
    doesn't matter in this regard. Just like Frode said: Everyone who uses a camera
    is a photographer. Everyone who uses type is a typographer. \r\nYet, think about
    a book like titled \u201C20th century photographers\u201D. It's obvious that this
    book will be about the best/most famous people of the professional field of photography.
    \r\n\r\nSo typographer/typography can just relate to the technique of designing
    with type \u2014 or those terms imply a certain expertise in execution and/or
    knowledge. The context decides. And that's okay. It's how language works. ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-07 17:56:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So in my family everybody is a calligrapher and a letterer; except for the
    two youngest ones everybody is a typographer; but I'm still the only type designer!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-07 18:43:05'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "\"Now everyone is a typographer, just like everyone is a photographer. The
    tools are afforable and easy to use.\"\r\nNah, the tools are easy to get access
    to illegally and as easy to abuse. Typography isn't easy, just like photography
    isn't easy. The fact that people think it is shouldn't affect what a typographer
    is. I simply can't call anyone who has to do with setting text a typographer.
    And likewise, I've taken photographs and I've had photography classes at the art
    academy, but I would never consider myself to be a photographer with my current
    skills. It's just not justified.\r\n\r\nI have seen the term 'typographer' being
    used to describe type designers as well though. They should remain distinct professions,
    however I would think a type designer is also a typographer.\r\n\r\n\"In a technical
    sense, yes, everyone who lays out some text in Microsoft Word is a typographer.
    He/she uses type to design a page. Quality doesn't matter in this regard.\"\r\nI
    don't agree with this statement. Am I technically a painter by throwing a bucket
    of paint onto a wall? Quality may not matter directly, but I think the tools the
    so-called typographer uses do matter and they affect the quality indirectly. I
    wouldn't call someone who knows nothing about type a typographer, even if he uses
    the kerning feature in Photoshop.\r\n\r\nWhy is it predominantly in art and design
    that everyone can be considered to belong to a certain profession without having
    the skills that go with that profession? It's awful. For us to insist that they
    actually ARE designers doesn't help. I could grab a hammer and helmet and consider
    myself a builder, and technically you could indeed say that I am because I build,
    but to be a genuine builder I would think I need to actually know something about
    building. For me to put on a helmet and get other tools needed for the job doesn't
    help me finish a house. If I do finish a house and it's understandably unsafe
    to occupy, you would seriously question my background. You wouldn't say \"he happens
    to be a bad builder\".\r\n\r\nI think it's our job to guard the integrity of our
    work, and so I don't call anyone who works with type a typographer."
  created: '2014-03-09 06:57:37'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "\"Now everyone is a typographer, just like everyone is a photographer. The
    tools are afforable and easy to use.\"\r\nNah, the tools are easy to get access
    to illegally and as easy to abuse. Typography isn't easy, just like photography
    isn't easy. The fact that people think it is shouldn't affect what a typographer
    is. I simply can't call anyone who has to do with setting text a typographer.
    And likewise, I've taken photographs and I've had photography classes at the art
    academy, but I would never consider myself to be a photographer with my current
    skills. It's just not justified.\r\n\r\nI have seen the term 'typographer' being
    used to describe type designers as well though. They should remain distinct professions,
    however I would think a type designer is also a typographer.\r\n\r\n\"In a technical
    sense, yes, everyone who lays out some text in Microsoft Word is a typographer.
    He/she uses type to design a page. Quality doesn't matter in this regard.\"\r\nI
    don't agree with this statement. Am I technically a painter by throwing a bucket
    of paint onto a wall? Quality may not matter directly, but I think the tools the
    so-called typographer uses do matter and they affect the quality indirectly. I
    wouldn't call someone who knows nothing about type a typographer, even if he uses
    the kerning feature in Photoshop.\r\n\r\nWhy is it predominantly in art and design
    that everyone can be considered to belong to a certain profession without having
    the skills that go with that profession? It's awful. For us to insist that they
    actually ARE designers doesn't help. I could grab a hammer and helmet and consider
    myself a builder, and technically you could indeed say that I am because I build,
    but to be a genuine builder I would think I need to actually know something about
    building. For me to put on a helmet and get other tools needed for the job doesn't
    help me finish a house. If I do finish a house and it's understandably unsafe
    to occupy, you would seriously question my background. You wouldn't say \"he happens
    to be a bad builder\".\r\n\r\nI think it's our job to guard the integrity of our
    work, and so I don't call anyone who works with type a typographer."
  created: '2014-03-09 06:57:41'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Why is it predominantly in art and design that everyone can be considered
    to belong to a certain profession without having the skills that go with that
    profession? </cite>\r\n\r\nIt isn't. I can also be a gardener (professionally
    or as hobby), a cook (professionally or just for one evening), a driver, a soccer
    player or whatever. That's how language works. The word just describes the activity.
    Whether or not a profession is meant, or a certain quality or expertise, depends
    on the context. That's all I am saying. \r\n"
  created: '2014-03-09 13:25:50'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I think you slightly misunderstood, which is my fault for wording my statement
    that way. What I was insinuating is why it's predominantly in art and design that
    someone can be considered a professional without having studied the subject in
    question deeply. A good example would be my own career. I've been pretty knowledgeable
    about typography for many years and in fact I probably could have considered myself
    a typographer back then. I didn't though, and if I did I think it was an overstatement.
    My skills at the time, although reaching further than the average graphic designer
    and many so-called typographers, wouldn't have justified calling myself a typographer
    I think. You need a certain skill set to make that claim.\r\n\r\nYou say the word
    just describes the activity, but we're not completely working with abstracts here.
    Arresting someone doesn't make me a cop. Likewise, I've never in my life described
    myself as a cook for merely making a dinner. I really think it's an overstatement
    to ascribe a profession to someone because he happens to practice such an activity
    at the moment.\r\n\r\nI think we can have a debate about semantics and metaphysics
    here, but the deeper message I want to convey is that it's our job to safeguard
    the integrity of our profession, and that applies to any profession. I know we
    live at a time where many tools are easy accessible so the borders between professions
    and certain principles tend to blur, but to make language blur along with it would
    be a mistake. Because, in the end what does it mean to be a designer in that case?
    I'm already being underrated because of my profession, both as a graphic designer
    and a type designer."
  created: '2014-03-09 15:19:52'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>it's our job to safeguard the integrity of our profession</cite>\r\n\r\nBut
    will that really happen through semantics? Who decides then who is qualified to
    be a typographer? \r\nA degree? You can do lousy work even with a degree. \r\nThe
    act of doing it for money? That also doesn't say much. \r\nBeing famous as a typographer?
    Maybe that was just good marketing.\r\nThe work being seen as \u201Cquality work\u201D?
    Who can decide that? Is there a global committee somewhere?\r\n\r\nToday, there
    is not one accepted definition of \u201Ctypographer\u201D anyway, that could clearly
    divide people who do something with type in the groups \"is a typographer\u201D
    and \u201Cis not a typographer\u201D. Type is now a tool for everyone and reserving
    typography/typographer just for some sort of elite wont work anyway. \r\nWhen
    in doubt, I personally just speak of the \u201Ctechnique of typography\u201D or
    the \u201Cart of typography\u201D.  In the first case, everyone who works with
    type is a typographer. In the second case I stress the skill/expertise. That is
    not blurry at all and I also don't think it devaluates the term. It just reflects
    how type is used today. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Martin Silvertant
      picture: 118818
    body: "<cite>But will that really happen through semantics? Who decides then who
      is qualified to be a typographer?</cite>\r\nIn theory it would. In practice
      it's more difficult to achieve. I don't think anyone in particular will decide
      who is qualified to be a typographer. In fact, I don't want us to decide who
      is a typographer and who isn't. My only issue is that we shouldn't just consider
      anyone who does type to be a typographer.\r\n\r\nIf someone lacks knowledge
      in type, we should point that out, and I think we do. What we shouldn't do is
      give the person the impression he is already qualified to be a typographer just
      because he works with type. Right now too many graphic designers think they're
      good typographers. I thought my typography was done well 6 years ago, but I
      had no idea how seriously I was lacking in knowledge and therefor lacked the
      insight to make the typography as good as I would do it now. I suspect in 5
      years from now I will feel the same about the work I do now. To have considered
      myself a typographer 6 years ago would have been unjustified despite the fact
      I knew more about typography than many you would probably consider to be typographers
      for merely working with type. \r\n\r\nI don't think we can necessarily judge
      who is a typographer because indeed there are many things to consider, but I
      think it helps to ascribe a certain amount of knowledge to a typographer.\r\n\r\nAlso,
      I find the notion of someone typing text in Microsoft Word being considered
      a typographer to be almost offensive. I think I'm being underrated as a designer
      exactly because people seem to think anyone can be a designer. I studied hard
      to get to the point where I am now and I have another 4/5 years to go. I have
      been doing freelance work for about 12 years but initially I considered myself
      an artist because I was doing designs and illustrations according to my own
      principles and knowledge. To be a designer requires more knowledge and insight
      about color, composition, typography etc. and you need to know about printing,
      trending, marketing, the history of art and design. Only then do you have control
      over what you do and only then can you justifiably call yourself a designer.\r\n\r\nVery
      simply put, you need a certain skill set for a certain profession and it's not
      justified to consider someone to be of that profession just for doing an activity
      related to that profession. Perhaps it doesn't apply to the English language,
      but in the Dutch language there seems to be a distinction between \"playing
      soccer\" and being a \"soccer player\". My sister plays soccer two times a week
      but I wouldn't consider her to be a soccer player. She just lacks ambition,
      technique and motivation, and that's alright because it's just a hobby.\r\n\r\nI
      will give one more example. I like to consider myself an amateur scientist because
      I analyze data of stars from the Kepler space observatory to find exoplanets.
      I've found about 10 planets of which I calculated one to be three times the
      mass of Jupiter and I identified about 10 eclipsing binaries and a few other
      oddities. Now, it requires quite a lot of insight into astronomy and physics
      and science in general to do this, hence I'm an amateur scientist. To consider
      myself a scientist however would be unjustified because although I did a lot
      of research, I never went to university for a degree in the subject. Although
      I do scientific work, I don't strictly think like a scientist. In fact, my contributions
      are predominantly statistical and I have no idea how to actually gather data
      and construct hypotheses like actual scientists do. To me it's technically correct
      to call myself an amateur scientist but this is probably more to my own satisfaction.
      Put me in a lab and I can almost assure you nothing scientific will be done.
      Hence, scientists need to protect the integrity of their field, and they do.
      They don't just consider anyone who does something scientific to be a scientist.
      Fortunately not.\r\n\r\nConversely, in design we do. In my opinion it's not
      justified."
    created: '2014-03-09 21:23:56'
  created: '2014-03-09 19:34:07'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Also, I find the notion of someone typing text in Microsoft Word being
    considered a typographer to be almost offensive.</cite>\r\n\r\nNote that I said
    \u201Cin a technical sense\u201D \u2014 that's a big difference. Also note that
    original question was about \u201Ctypographer\u201D vs. \u201Ctype designer\u201D.
    This question is very clearly about \u201Cwhat they do\u201D, not \u201Cif they
    are good at it/qualified/have a degree, years of experience and so on\u201D. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-10 09:15:10'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: Oh I agree with you, technically. A few posts ago I said you seem to slightly
    misunderstand my point and you still do. The original question has already been
    answered and so I thought it was relevant to make the point that although there
    are clear descriptions of what type designers and typographers are and do, basing
    their job description on their activities rather than on their actual job, knowledge
    and skills may not be a desirable thing to do.
  created: '2014-03-10 09:54:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Martin Silvertant:\r\n<cite>Also, I find the notion of someone typing text
    in Microsoft Word being considered a typographer to be almost offensive.</cite>\r\n\r\nHow
    about this then: someone typing text in Microsoft Word is practicing typography.\r\n\r\nWithout
    a license."
  created: '2014-03-10 20:41:58'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "Surprise news: A diploma does not a scientist make. Doing science does so.
    If I remember correctly, the Showa Emperor was an accomplished scientist \u2013
    a marine biologist."
  created: '2014-03-10 21:59:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "</em>A diploma does not a scientist make.</em>\r\n\r\nHowever, you do need
    one to become a Doctor of Thinkology."
  created: '2014-03-10 23:01:19'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I'm not saying I need a diploma to be a scientist. I'm saying I need to be
    educated as a scientist to be a scientist.\r\n\r\n\"How about this then: someone
    typing text in Microsoft Word is practicing typography.\"\r\n\r\nI still don't
    like it. You can do typography with MS Word, but typing text in Word isn't necessarily
    practicing typography."
  created: '2014-03-11 19:44:43'
date: '2014-03-07 10:50:21'
node_type: forum
title: What is the Difference between a Typographer and a Type Designer?

---
