---
author:
  name: Frode Bo Helland
  picture: 112295
body: "Isn\u2019t it strange that the pinnacle of type boils down to the traces of
  a tool thousands of years ago? As interesting as it may be, I am not convinced the
  blooming/recent trend of reversed contrast is much of an improvement. It is, however,
  a necessary first step. Bla bla bla."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Type does not boil down to any physical tool, or even a set of such. Those
    who have based their lives on that illusion \u2013because that makes them feel
    better\u2013 want us to believe that. Expose them, for the love of the craft,
    and the love of mankind's cultural progress.\r\n\r\nReverse-contrast is indeed
    not an improvement per se, but yes, it can be catalytic in the eventual abolition
    of the illusion. BTW we should not use \"reverse\" because that reinforces the
    skeuomorphic illusion; I recommend \"vertical\" and \"horizontal\".\r\n\r\nThere
    are about half a dozen typeface designers that are on the right track. Or at least
    off the wrong one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-07 22:33:07'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "\u2026 traces of a tool *set* thousand of years ago. Please forgive my poor
    English."
  created: '2014-03-07 22:34:12'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Unlimited freedom in design often leads to chaos.\r\n\r\nIt happens, fortunately,
    that the characteristics of the nib of the old-style pen led to subtleties and
    details in letter shapes that improved legibility and reading. Thus, type design
    from calligraphic roots provides a beneficial discipline and framework.\r\n\r\nNever
    the less, you are absolutely right that putting ink on paper can be done arbitrarily,
    and there is no particularly good reason that type designs should be calligraphically-based.
    One useful means should not be confused with the end.\r\n\r\nIn subtle ways, ever
    since the pantograph freed type from the technical limitations of punch-cutting,
    type design has included non-calligraphic elements. Think of the subtle ink traps
    placed within some newspaper typefaces.\r\n\r\nAnd what of Bifur, or Peignot (Peignot
    Bold being its most famous weight) or the typefaces based on MICR to give things
    a computer look? Display faces such as this show that the non-calligraphic is
    hardly unthinkable.\r\n\r\nToday, the designer intending to design a typeface
    for the ordinary reading of body copy generally includes in his consideration
    how people are creatures of habit, and thus includes familiar calligraphic elements
    in such designs. And there is still room to do new things in mixing elements from
    Jenson, Aldus, Garamond and Caslon or reviving the work of other type designers
    from that period or thereabouts.\r\n\r\nBut even though you may be disappointed
    in the pace of progress, sans-serif faces like Helvetica and Univers do not look
    to me as though they were written with a pen.\r\n\r\nAnd then there is Optima.\r\n\r\nIf
    people experimenting with abandoning the tyranny of the pen take their experiments
    seriously enough to aim at rivalling these successes, I may applaud, but if they
    just design bizarre-looking letterforms that have no chance of acceptance as anything
    but attention-getting display faces, I am not going to accord such things any
    significance."
  created: '2014-03-07 23:13:44'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "\"Abandoning the tyranny of the pen\"-related:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Alphabet_(typeface)\">Wim
    Crouwel's \"New Alphabet\"</a>, still looking surprisingly modern and technical.\r\n\r\nDesigned
    to \"embrace the limitations of CRT screens\", rather than trying to fit round
    characters in square (pixel) holes."
  created: '2014-03-07 23:44:54'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "I wouldn\u2019t surprise me one bit if the typeface best suited to our eyes
    and brain looks unfamiliar \u2013 even hideous \u2013 by today\u2019s standard. "
  created: '2014-03-07 23:46:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Reading is a learned skill, and culture-speci\uFB01c.\r\nThe shape of alphabets
    has evolved as part of an inter-related ecosystem of reading, writing, typography
    and technology.\r\nThe eye and brain are trained to read.\r\nReading is also reader-speci\uFB01c.\r\n\r\nTherefore
    there are no shapes that are ideal for our physiology, all that can be ascertained
    are averages of what works best for a particular demographic group of people,
    educated in a particular manner, at a particular time and place, using a particular
    technology."
  created: '2014-03-08 00:56:39'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "If I sound like I\u2019ve got the answer, that\u2019s not the case. I\u2019m
    just interested in what you think."
  created: '2014-03-08 01:08:13'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "That is certainly part of the equation, Nick, but I\u2019m not convinced
    it\u2019s the whole answer. In any case, moving further is in the best interest
    of type designers."
  created: '2014-03-08 01:08:48'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "<cite>Unlimited freedom in design often leads to chaos.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    say that like it's a bad thing.  :o)"
  created: '2014-03-08 04:44:13'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Frode Bo Helland:\r\n<cite>I wouldn\u2019t surprise me one bit if the typeface
    best suited to our eyes and brain looks unfamiliar \u2013 even hideous \u2013
    by today\u2019s standard.</cite>\r\n\r\nCertainly, in theory, that is entirely
    possible.\r\n\r\nBut if it were true, and someone even designed that very typeface
    in all its optimality, <em>how would we test that typeface in order to discover
    it was better than what we had now</em>? If it's unfamiliar and hideous, people
    would find it awkward to learn and read, so a test comparing it to what people
    are familiar with would be biased against it.\r\n\r\nSo in exploring unfamiliar
    regions to find optimality, one is wandering in the dark, striking blind. Instead,
    to find what our eyes and brains need, it seems to me we will have to take baby
    steps to make progress.\r\n\r\nIt may also be noted that it doesn't seem that
    a technical improvement in typefaces is really needed, although the limitations
    of the dot matrix screen encourage some reaction. Do Garamond and Baskerville
    really need to be improved on?\r\n\r\nOf course, they <em>were</em> improved,
    and what we got was Corona (and Aurora and Ionic No. 5)... so we already <em>have</em>
    typefaces that are highly legible, despite being set at point sizes that constitute
    cruelty to the human eye. Which, of course, raises the question of the desirability
    of conniving any further in such unbridled excesses of capitalism.\r\n\r\nOn the
    other hand,  they're trying to come out with smart watches, and if new typefaces
    could let them display more information, I suppose it would be of some use.\r\n\r\n@Nick
    Shinn:\r\n<cite>Reading is a learned skill, and culture-speci\uFB01c.</cite>\r\n...\r\n<cite>Therefore
    there are no shapes that are ideal for our physiology,</cite>\r\n\r\nI think that
    conclusion is unwarranted, despite the fact that I believe (as noted above) that
    such shapes would be <strong>very</strong> difficult to find.\r\n\r\nAfter all,
    the world has many different writing systems in current use. Studying the reading
    performance of Koreans and Chinese and Armenians and Israelis and Inuit and Georgians
    and Tibetans and Ethiopians with different typefaces for their languages, for
    example, might yield some insights into the right direction in which to move.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    it might be noted that in mathematics, I am a Platonist. I think that a peek-a-boo
    picture of reality which says that what we cannot see cannot exist is inherently
    inconsistent.\r\n\r\nHowever, when it comes to the classic philosophical conundrum\r\n\r\n<em>If
    a tree falls in the forest, with no one to hear it, does it make a sound</em>\r\n\r\nI
    would note that the careful definition of words is of assistance:\r\n\r\nIf by
    sound you mean the qualia associated with auditory experience, they have not been
    excited or manifested in any human mind by the event;\r\n\r\nif by sound you mean
    longitudinal pressure waves in the air, clearly they have been created by this
    tree falling as well as they would have by any other.\r\n\r\nOf course, someone
    might say that I'm just following the example of Noah Sweat: \"If when you say
    whiskey, you mean\", but I think the distinction is valid in my case for determining
    the domain in which the question is asked."
  created: '2014-03-08 14:56:45'
- author:
    name: J. Tillman
    picture: 118124
  body: "Re: change and testing. The change will be evolutionary, and the testing
    will be done, as always, in the market place. And let's remember some schools
    are not even teaching cursive any more.\r\n\r\nThe change that I am seeing is
    increased angularity (less flow) in type. Here I'm thinking of Skolar or Turnip.
    And my eyes see this as more readable on paper and on screen. Is this angularity
    happening in non-Latin languages?\r\n\r\nWill the changes in type influence the
    way we print? I think, over time, yes, this influence will be reversed. And let's
    remember (part 2) that throughout history the dominant language in an area has
    always been the language of the powerful nation state. Whatever changes happen,
    they may not be in the Latin script."
  created: '2014-03-08 15:52:10'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<blockquote><em>After all, the world has many different writing systems in
    current use. Studying the reading performance of Koreans and Chinese and Armenians
    and Israelis and Inuit and Georgians and Tibetans and Ethiopians with different
    typefaces for their languages, for example, might yield some insights into the
    right direction in which to move.</em></blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn the fall of 2007
    Gerry Leonidas held a seminar at the <a href=\"http://tdc.org/events/education/non-latinweek-ends/2007nonlatleonidasgreek.html\">Type
    Directors Club</a>. I was there as Gerry\u2019s guest. His seminar turned very
    successful: it was most informative, educational, and fun. Like all participants,
    I had learned a lot. I had a special angle on the seminar\u2019s content, agenda,
    and methods used: earlier that year, also at TDC, I conducted a similar <a href=\"http://tdc.org/events/education/non-latinweek-ends/2007nonlatzhukovcyrillic.html\">seminar
    on Cyrillic</a> type design.\r\n\r\nThe relationship of Cyrillic and Greek scripts,
    their similarities and differences, were always of great interest to me. What
    caught my attention at Gerry\u2019s seminar was that in the beginning he asked
    all present to try their hand at writing Greek letters; he commented on the participants\u2019
    worksheets, explaining the finer points of glyph construction. \r\n\r\nI asked
    myself, why couldn\u2019t I have used the same exercise to kick off the discussion
    of Cyrillic letterforms? Why didn\u2019t I even think of it? It felt so natural,
    so obvious. Upon reflection, it dawned on me that the reason could be in the fundamental
    difference in genetics of the two scripts, and the development of their respective
    typographic forms.\r\n\r\nUnlike Greek script whose roots go back to North Semitic
    writing, or even earlier, Cyrillic did not originate as a product of natural evolution.
    It was <strong>invented</strong>, custom-designed to record Slavic speech, and
    much more importantly, to spread the word of God. Yes, Cyrillic writing derived
    from Greek writing, but in the grand scheme of things this circumstance is rather
    collateral. At the time it just couldn\u2019t have been based on any other contemporary
    script\u2014even if several Cyrillic letters derived from Hebrew letters.\r\n\r\nFor
    quite a while\u2014actually, for nine hundred years\u2014Cyrillic letterforms
    evolved naturally, moving farther and farther away from their Greek progenitors.
    Following the universal pattern (<em>Schrift kommt von Schreiben</em>), the glyphs
    of the fonts used in early Cyrillic print, with few exceptions, had been fashioned
    after written letterforms (vyaz, poluustav). The Latinised forms of some West-
    and South-Slavic scribal hands, printing types (e.g., Bosan\u010Dica) or monumental
    lettering had little bearing on the mainstream trends in Cyrillic typography.\r\n\r\nA
    really big change took place in the beginning of the 18th century when Peter the
    Great decided to modernise, or to be more accurate, to establish, Russian secular
    printing. At his initiative a new printing type had been developed, vaguely based
    on the Western forms. The glyph set of the new, \u2018civil\u2019 type was different
    from the one used before: it was adapted for the typesetting in contemporary Russian,
    not in Church Slavonic. Since 1708\u201310 the development of Cyrillic typography
    has taken a totally new direction; the forms of the post-Petrine printing types,
    not only Russian, can be traced back to Peter\u2019s Civil Type. \r\n\r\nAll things
    considered, the new, \u2018westernised\u2019 forms of Civil Type had little precedent
    in Russian writing, and leave an impression of an arbitrary, whimsical refurbishment.
    Peter\u2019s typographic reform was indeed a <em>triumph of the will</em>. It
    took a while for the new letterforms to get broken in and integrated into a harmonious
    ensemble, and for the everyday writing to finally catch up with the reformed printing
    type.\r\n\r\nThere are reasons to suggest that in Cyrillic type the chirographic
    aspects take a back seat to invention and engineering. I find it significant that
    Peter\u2019s <em>grazhdanskii shrift</em> had been consciously and purposefully
    designed to imitate the forms of <strong>printing type</strong> (one hundred years
    later, in a curiously similar way, the shapes of the newly-invented Cherokee letters
    had been informed by the forms of printing type, Caslon).\r\n\r\nIt looks like
    the familiar adage of <em>Schrift kommt von Schreiben</em> does not quite apply
    to post-1710 Cyrillic type. If Cyrillic did indeed come from writing, then it\u2019s
    come a really long way; so long that its connection with writing has become hardly
    traceable. To a considerable extent contemporary Cyrillic presents a piece of
    conceptual design where the convention in the shaping of glyphs takes precedence
    over the aesthetics of writing."
  created: '2014-03-09 17:29:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "It's true that Peter the Great took his design for the Russian alphabet from
    type for the Latin alphabet. But I'm not at all comfortable with your conclusion
    that this means that the Cyrillic script is divorced from its connection with
    writing.\r\n\r\nThe reason I am not is that to all appearances, the Cyrillic script
    is quite thoroughly copied from the Latin script - and, thus, if its model, the
    Latin script, is not divorced from writing, then neither would the Cyrillic script
    be so divorced.\r\n\r\nRussian handwriting and Russian italics also exist. But
    from Peter the Great's Bodoni-esque Cyrillic, one can directly proceed to Cyrillic
    Times Roman, Cyrillic Jenson Oldstyle, or Cyrillic hand printing. Nothing got
    so redefined or reinvented in the copying that there are any Russian letters for
    which one can't do anything one can do with a Latin letter.\r\n\r\nThis may be
    bad for the Cyrillic alphabet as an independent object of study, but Cyrillic
    type design and Cyrillic calligraphy should have no problems.\r\n\r\nIt's scripts
    like those for Armenian and Greek, which are under pressure to copy from Latin
    models, where those models are not perfectly suited to the nature of the script,
    but resources are lacking to do an equivalent indigenous development, that have
    problems.\r\n\r\nRussian type designers are contributing new type designs to the
    pool available for the Latin script, so it is not as if the Cyrillic script area
    is reduced to copying; in fact, perhaps the best way of looking at this is to
    view the Cyrillic script area as a part of the Latin script area which just happens
    to be somewhat differentiated as to character set. Like German, which has the
    eszet that other Latin-alphabet languages do not, only a bit more different."
  created: '2014-03-09 20:06:19'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Dear John, I did mention that after a while the new letterforms introduced
    by Peter the Great got broken in and integrated into a harmonious ensemble through
    careful fine-tuning. It is a fact, however, that while the construction pattern
    of Western italic, which was informed by handwriting, is consistent with the upright
    forms, post-Petrine Cyrillic italic came out thirty years later than roman, and
    was actually an afterthought. This can explain many puzzling and confusing inconsistencies
    in letterform construction of Cyrillic roman and italic:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cyr_Rm-It_Confusing_3641.gif]\r\nWithout
    doubt, Cyrillic type design is not \u201Creduced to copying\u201D, and designers
    do their very best to preserve the visual identity and the design integrity of
    multilingual typefaces across various scripts, with regard to the style category,
    and/or the aesthetics of the historical period, if/as applicable.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Cyrillic
    script is quite thoroughly copied from the Latin script - and, thus, if its model,
    the Latin script, is not divorced from writing, then neither would the Cyrillic
    script be so divorced.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nOkay, let\u2019s agree that modern
    Cyrillic type is not fully divorced from writing, but is related to it through
    Latin, so that cousinage is, say, once removed."
  created: '2014-03-09 23:20:18'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "After my post, I felt I left one thing out. Since I said that Armenian and
    Greek have a problem, but they have the option open to them of Latinizing their
    typefaces, I shouldn't have said that Cyrillic has no problems. To the extent
    that Peter the Great replaced a valid indigenous model for Cyrillic script with
    one copied from the Latin script world, there was a loss in the <em>cultural</em>
    sphere.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure, though, that such a loss did occur at this time,
    even though you and Hrant are agreed that one did. No doubt that is simply due
    to ignorance on my part, however. The reason I say this is that the difference
    between pre-Petrine and post-Petrine letter forms appears to me to be simply one
    of typeface style; the letter forms were put into Western dress, but they weren't
    altered.\r\n\r\nRussian display typefaces based on pre-Petrine models exist to
    this day.\r\n\r\nSo the Russian alphabet hasn't been destroyed the way the Greek
    (lowercase) alphabet would be if someone were to Latinize Greek thoroughly by
    using Cyrillic as a model <em>and the result were to be adopted in Greece to the
    exclusion of the previous form of printed Greek</em>.\r\n\r\nCyrillic may have
    suffered a cultural blow, but because its present form is so close (not identical,
    as you point out) to the Latin, the kinds of problems I was saying it didn't have
    are <em>typographical</em> ones. If it can be done in Latin, it can be done in
    Cyrillic. (Well, <em>small capitals</em> might be confusing in Cyrillic, admittedly.)
    Without, as in the case of Greek and Armenian, paying a cultural price - because
    the price has already been paid."
  created: '2014-03-10 02:03:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sure, there would be an ideal\u2014if everyone were the same.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-10 02:10:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This has been a running debate here on Typophile: to what extent is readability
    a matter of familiarity and to what extent the demands of the eye and brain? In
    the recently published [[https://hyphenpress.co.uk/products/books/978-0-907259-48-0|Typography
    Papers 9]] Peter Enneson and I have a new paper called 'Readability: Discovery
    and Disputation' about the research work of Matthew Luckiesh, done in the later
    1930s in collaboration with Linotype. \r\n\r\nLuckiesh found that blink rate increases
    more over time with difficult reading conditions, when other variables are controlled
    for. He used the term 'readability' to indicate ease of reading extended text.
    And he said that he research show that it is inverse to increase in blink rate
    over time. \r\n\r\nLuckiesh found that in particular boldness of type is a variable
    that influences readability, with a medium weight being better than very heavy
    and light. \u2014He tested four weights of the slab serif Memphis. Frutiger has
    also argued, independently, that there is an ideal black:white ratio. And, indeed,
    I think you see this across writing systems, even based on different instruments,
    contrasts, etc.  \r\n\r\nW.A. Dwiggins agreed with Luckiesh about there being
    an ideal, but added a number of other variables that he thought influenced readability.
    None of this has to do with the degree of differentiation of letter forms, which
    has for long been a focus of interest. \r\n\r\nAs to the issues of the relationship
    to the moving front of the pen, and contrast, I think this is complicated because
    the shapes traditionally drawn by the pen and brush I think are influenced by
    the demands of the eye. For example, the vertical emphasis of latin type and horizontal
    emphasis of Hebrew I think relate to the design of the letter shapes in their
    respective alphabets, and this in turn is a response to the demands of the eye
    and brain. So it's the letter design + contrast that is at work. \r\n\r\nI'm hoping
    that Peter and I will have a presentation on this at TypeCon this summer. Meanwhile,
    you can rush out and buy Typography Papers 9 :)    "
  created: '2014-03-10 02:56:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "And individuals vary, but within limits. For example, optical illusions work
    pretty much for everyone. And that's an example of the real constraints, and their
    influence. \r\n\r\nThe ideals for readability I think have ranges, and they allow
    for endless variation and creativity. However, the constraints are real. Of course
    also ease of decoding is not always paramount, either. But in extended text, generally
    it is. "
  created: '2014-03-10 03:01:46'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<blockquote>So the Russian alphabet hasn't been destroyed the way the Greek
    (lowercase) alphabet would be if someone were to Latinize Greek thoroughly by
    using Cyrillic as a model <em>and the result were to be adopted in Greece to the
    exclusion of the previous form of printed Greek.</em></blockquote>The <em>Russian</em>
    alphabet has not been destroyed because it did not happen to exist before 1708\u201310.
    For written Russian Old Church Slavonic alphabet was used, which was as clumsy
    and inefficient as, or even worse than, using Greek alphabet to record Slavic
    before the invention of Cyrillic.\r\n\r\nIt is interesting to compare the typographic
    activities of two European monarchs, Louis XIV of France and Peter I (also \u201Cthe
    Great\u201D). The Commission Jaugeon appointed by Louis was just modifying the
    shapes of the typographic script whose letterforms were already quite well established\u2014for
    H.M.\u2019s own <em>imprimerie</em>. Peter was altering the very complement of
    the alphabet itself, for the whole Russian Empire\u2014not only revising letter
    shapes but dropping the letters that were of no, or very little, use for printing
    books in the new secular Russian language of early 18th century.\r\n\r\nIn his
    book <em><a href=\"http://www.hup.harvard.edu/catalog.php?isbn=9780674013162\">The
    Petrine Revolution in Russian Culture</a></em> (p. 276) James Cracraft wrote:
    <br><dl> <dd>Not only a newly streamlined, Europeanized Russian alphabet but a
    newly streamlined, Europeanized Russian language were among the outcomes of Peter\u2019s
    drive to renovate his realm\u2014here, its architecture\u2014along contemporary
    European lines.</dd></dl><br>\r\n\r\nJust look at how impatiently, obsessively
    and adamantly did Peter cross out in that <a href=\"http://www.wdl.org/en/item/561/view/1/5/\">font
    proof</a> of 29 January 1710 not only the glyphs that looked old-fashioned but
    also the characters he thought useless for his <em>neue Typographie</em>"
  created: '2014-03-10 04:00:56'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Well, I cannot fault Peter the Great for making it possible for the Russian
    people to write their own language in an alphabet suited to it.\r\n\r\nBut how
    closely the post-Petrine script was connected to the original Slavonic script,
    and what was lost, I will admit, I cannot judge."
  created: '2014-03-10 04:55:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I don\u2019t think you can compare readability to optical illusions.\r\nThe
    whole idea of readability is that there are optimal values for physical properties
    of type letter shapes.\r\nI would compare it more to chairs or stairs.\r\nThere
    are best averages for the height of a chair seat, based on the average length
    of shinn bones, no doubt.\r\nSimilarly, steps are sized and shaped to \uFB01t
    adults, not children or those in wheelchairs.\r\nWhy would readability not follow
    the same principle?\r\ni.e. what is ideal for one person is never ideal for another.\r\n\r\nDamn
    standardization; the average is not ideal."
  created: '2014-03-10 17:44:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't agree, I think optical illusions are very germane. They actually
    are part of the story\u2014e.g. the desirability of overshoots. I think the ideals
    have to do with ratio of black to white, contrast, rhythm, relation of spacing
    counter, etc. The ideals allow for different writing systems, for a start. Some
    people have a hard time reading\u2014dyslexia, visual impairment\u2014but I think
    for those who can read fluently the variations aren't as big as in size of people.
    \ "
  created: '2014-03-10 18:57:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sure, optical illusions are relevant, I wasn\u2019t debating that.\r\n\r\nBut
    just because they fool most people doesn\u2019t mean that there are ideal letter
    proportions.\r\n\r\nDo you really think perfection is possible? \u2014because
    that\u2019s what ideal means!"
  created: '2014-03-10 19:16:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I think it may not be possible for us to find the \"perfect\" letter proportions
    or shapes. But if I was to say that they didn't exist, their nonexistence would
    have consequences for the consistency of typographic theory. Basically, I don't
    think mathematics would benefit by regarding existence proofs as invalid, and
    I apply the same reasoning to logical thinking in general.\r\n\r\nNot that I'm
    excluding local minima, or even multiple characteristics of a typeface interacting
    in a nontransitive manner."
  created: '2014-03-10 20:37:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>\u2026the consistency of typographic theory\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t
    you mean reading theory?\r\nTypography is a practice."
  created: '2014-03-10 20:55:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick, I''m not talking about perfection, I''m talking about a range of, for
    example black to white ratios within which reading is most comfortable. Though,
    as Dwiggins said weight variable has to be "hitched" to others, and they all influence
    each other. Perhaps "optimal range" for reading comfort of text is a better terminology. '
  created: '2014-03-10 21:50:44'
date: '2014-03-07 21:42:28'
node_type: forum
title: 'Random thought: Ideal shapes for reading'

---
