---
author:
  name: nburns
  picture: 127209
body: "For a school project, I\u2019m typesetting my first book. I\u2019ve read numerous
  Typophile threads on choosing a book typeface and consulted Bringhurst, but I\u2019m
  buckling down to ask for some more specific advice.\r\n\r\n<em>Historical considerations:</em>\r\nMaybe
  this is a little \u201Cpurist\u201D for my first book, but I think that historical
  considerations for type warrant at least some consideration. Here is a summary of
  my admittedly haphazard research:\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>Bram Stoker is Irish</li>\r\n<li>Dracula
  was published in 1897</li>\r\n<li>Vlad the Impaler was a 15th century Romanian Prince
  and inspiration for Count Dracula</li>\r\n<li>It seems as though Scotch Roman type
  was a common text face for the time it was published (at least in America?)</li>\r\n<li>The
  book takes place in England and Romania</li>\r\n<li>Even if it was appropriate to
  use, and I'm not sure that it is, there isn\u2019t really much (if any) Romanian
  type from that time</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\n<em>Questions:</em>\r\nAm I right in thinking
  that Scotch Roman type would be appropriate? If not, I'd love to hear a better suggestion.\r\nIs
  it too far of a stretch (as I suppose) to appeal to the 15th century type to evoke
  the centuries old character of Dracula?\r\n\r\nBeing a student, financial considerations
  are in order... but I\u2019d be willing to purchase a reasonably priced roman and
  italic text face if the right one came along. Here are some I\u2019ve found:\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/okay-type/harriet/|Harriet]]</li>\r\n<li>[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontbureau/miller/|Miller]]</li>\r\n<li>[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/mti/bulmer-mt/|Bulmer]]
  \u2013 not necessarily Scotch Roman, but still on the modern side</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nThanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Hmm. By the way, you're <site>designing</cite> the book. Usually typesetters
    just execute what the designer specifies. The trick is to be a designer rather
    than a stylist. (Hint: <cite>stylists</cite> were the guys that put tailfins on
    all the 1950s-60s era cars. Though they <cite>called</cite> themselves designers,
    true enough...)\r\n\r\nHere's the conundrum. Isn't it more appropriate to use
    a font that a general modern audience sees as timely, rather than one which was
    actually used? Take a look at the title page from the first edition of Jane Austen's
    <cite>Pride and Prejudice</cite>...\r\n\r\nhttp://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/1/17/PrideAndPrejudiceTitlePage.jpg\r\n\r\n<cite>Edit:</cite>
    \r\n\r\nAnother story: I once had to set a book about the Lakota (proper name
    for one of the \"Sioux\" Indian tribes) in Goudy Sans, because the designer didn't
    want to use a typeface that looked \"European\" or \"American.\" Noble thought,
    I suppose, but since the only written form of the Lakota language uses the Latin
    alphabet, forlorn. I thought Goudy Sans a singularly poor choice. Consider that,
    if you can't find a \"Romanian\" typeface. (And remember, even if you could, she/he
    probably would have been schooled at Reading...).\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-17 04:37:33'
- author:
    name: nburns
    picture: 127209
  body: "Thanks for the terminology tip! I'll tuck that away for later.\r\n\r\nBoth
    good points accompanied by good illustrations. I suppose it's likely I'm committing
    the all-too-common mistake of overthinking the issue... maybe I'm just scared
    of getting stuck with the wrong typeface.\r\n\r\nInvestigating the history seemed
    a good place to start \u2013 esp. given that I know so little \u2013 so any recommendations
    on where else to start are very welcome. I'll keep looking around.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again."
  created: '2014-03-17 05:00:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're not over-thinking. You're thinking.\r\n\r\nThat a language uses the
    Latin alphabet does not mean there's no room to express non-Western ideals. Consider
    for example Turkish: wanting to be more European is one thing, unceremoniously
    throwing out Turkey's Arabic-script past is another.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-17 05:21:20'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "You may be over-thinking, but you instinct is correct. You job as a designer
    is to present an author to an audience. If you want, for example, to make a statement
    on the Turkish policy of allowing no language but modern Turkish -- write an article
    or a book of your own, criticizing that policy. If it's worth doing, do so in
    a straightforward way. If such ideas are a part of the text you're designing,
    you can, in the small ways open to designers, aid the author's position in your
    design. But if they are not, and you can't abide that, decline the job.\r\n\r\nThere
    may also be a difference in perspective between a school assignment and professional
    work. Usually professional work involves doing your best to aid sales. It at least
    involves the medical notion of \"do no harm\" -- and in these cases, that would
    usually be \"harm\" to a commercial endeavor. \r\n\r\nWhile it doesn't come up
    often, most of us have, as professionals, turned down work rather than compromise
    the twin commitments to ourselves and our clients -- though <cite>Dracula</cite>
    likely presents no such dilemma..."
  created: '2014-03-17 06:39:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Scotch Roman certainly is evocative of 1897. It does have the downside of
    being, at least in some forms, unattractive to modern readers, particularly in
    the forms used in the late nineteenth century. (On the other hand, books from
    1805 or thereabouts also tend to be set in Scotch Roman, but in typefaces from
    that group which generally are attractive in appearance to modern taste. But that
    isn't terribly relevant.)\r\n\r\nThe book \"The Annotated Dracula\" reproduces
    an early publication of the novel, as well as providing useful background information.\r\n\r\nThe
    question that needs to be asked, though, is the kind of book you're aiming at
    producing.\r\n\r\nA mass-market paperback intended to be read for entertainment
    would be set in one of the conventional reading faces of today - Times Roman,
    Century Expanded, or Caledonia.\r\n\r\nA book aimed at being decorative in appearance
    would be set in something that looked pretty, fairly independently of considerations
    of authenticity. Here, we're talking about faces like Centaur, Kennerley, Jenson
    Oldstyle, Cloister Lightface.\r\n\r\nIn between the above two categories, there
    are faces like Baskerville, Garamond, Bembo, Plantin, and Palatino, for example;
    these are nice looking typefaces used for ordinary books rather than fancy private
    press ones.\r\n\r\nHere\r\n\r\n[[http://regi.sk-szeged.hu/statikus_html/kiallitas/buchkultur/chron2.html]]\r\n\r\nis
    a page from the Chronica Hungarorum, the first book printed in Hungary.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the first book printed in Romania, a coin commemorates its 500th anniversary,
    but I haven't found images of any pages from the Litourgicon of Macarie."
  created: '2014-03-17 13:03:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Charles is certainly right that a designer should not \"sneak in\" his own
    ideas into a topic. His duty is to visually amplify the message (although this
    <em>does</em> include conveying things that the author might not even realize
    he's expressing).\r\n\r\n<blockquote>write an article or a book of your own</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThis
    however is a non sequitur: just because you don't have the time/desire/ability
    to write text doesn't mean you can't leverage <em>visual</em> language. Example:
    for a text about pre-WWI Turkish history, using a font with a diamond tittle*
    to subtly convey the Arabic script.\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/97738\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-17 15:32:26'
- author:
    name: nburns
    picture: 127209
  body: "School projects certainly are different from commercial projects. My main
    goal is to design a book that's decently impressive and that stands up to close
    examination without breaking any major rules. I don't have the restriction of
    a mass market paperback audience (no Times for me!), but I'm not sure I want to
    attempt an overly decorative setting, as I haven't even set a <em>normal</em>
    book yet.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of <em>diamond tittle</em> I found [[http://www.type-together.com/Maiola|Maiola]],
    an eastern European typeface. To me, it seems that the calligraphic and humanist
    elements could connote the correct time period to a modern audience. Thoughts?\r\n\r\nPlus,
    Typetogether has a handsome 25% discount for students.\r\n\r\nRegarding a more
    English feel, there's always Baskerville (which I do own thanks to Apple or Adobe,
    but I'm not sure which version I have or how well it suits book setting). It feels
    properly old to untrained eyes.\r\n\r\nTypetogether also has [[http://www.type-together.com/Athelas|Athelas]]
    (one I also already own), which they say is \"inspired in Britain's literary classics\".
    Not sure it feels as English or as old as Baskerville.\r\n\r\n<em>Edit: the link
    to Maiola didn't work.</em>"
  created: '2014-03-17 22:22:10'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "In passing, are you planning to set this book using metal? A number of the
    fonts mentioned in this thread look good in specimen books -- as long as those
    specimen books are samples of letterpress.\r\n\r\nIf your school exercise in \"typesetting\"
    is to have printing as an end  result, go to the library -- or bookstore -- and
    look at books printed after 2000. There are typefaces that look good with the
    newer platemaking technology, but far fewer than you might imagine. Miller is
    one of those, a favorite font of a late Typophile contributor, Will Powers. Go
    down to his name in this thread\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/45205\r\n\r\nWill
    was a genuine union-level Journeyman pressman -- one step down from master printer
    in the old school tradition, working some at the Steinhour Press (but I think
    not a journeyman there) & elsewhere before becoming a book designer. He had a
    good grasp of ink on paper, always the final result by which a book is judged.\r\n\r\n^
    ^ ^\r\n\r\nFor a completely  different approach to the choice of typeface, you
    might consider that few of the Scotch Romans have what I'd call an \"edgy\" quality,
    yet the Dracula tale does. You could key on that rather than historical period."
  created: '2014-03-17 23:57:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I'm getting too drawn into this project. \r\n\r\nAssuming you are talking
    about <cite>Dracula</cite>, and I was to do a new design for a trade hardback,
    I'd  have Miller as a fallback, but I'd look elsewhere first. \r\n\r\nI'd take
    a look at Trinit\xE9 No. 2, Roman condensed, on a hunch. There is no direct allusion,
    but the feel of it might work. Just a hunch. Then I'd try Skolar, which you <cite>could</cite>
    afford. That too on a hunch, and a typeface I'm pretty sure I could get to work
    at some level. And if those didn't pan out, figuring out why would likely lead
    me to other choices. Miller would always work, but only that."
  created: '2014-03-18 00:50:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What about this?\r\nhttp://typographica.org/typeface-reviews/eskapade/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: nburns
      picture: 127209
    body: ">What about this? http://typographica.org/typeface-reviews/eskapade/\r\n\r\nActually,
      I encountered this a little earlier this afternoon! It looked intriguing, and
      I have to admit that incorporating the fraktur version is enticing given its
      edginess.\r\n\r\nThe deciding factor: how much money can I fork out for this
      project?"
    created: '2014-03-18 01:36:26'
  created: '2014-03-18 00:52:20'
- author:
    name: nburns
    picture: 127209
  body: ">Are you planning to set this book using metal?\r\n\r\nIf only! I'm currently
    a simple graphic design student with a fairly extreme interest in type that's
    quickly becoming a passion. For my graphic design class, we get to choose our
    final project \u2013 hence this project. Given the format, I think Dracula will
    pose some interesting typographical challenges without being too lofty a goal.\r\n\r\nI
    know this isn't optimal, but I ultimately want to get this printed as a piece
    for my portfolio show next semester \u2013 short run for sure, so <em>undoubtedly</em>
    printed via digital press. I'm not sure how much control I'll have over paper,
    so I'm not counting on something terribly nice... like I said, not optimal, but
    I really want to get a start on designing a book for once.\r\n\r\n><em>Miller</em>
    \u2013 That was my gently researched opinion, resulting in this thread. I printed
    a (low res) PDF specimen of Nick Shinn's <em>Scotch Modern</em> ($$$), and I think
    it's one of the few that does have that edge.\r\n\r\n><em>Trinit\xE9</em> \u2013
    It's gorgeous. I discovered that one earlier on in my research. Fortunately/unfortunately
    type really <em>is</em> worth top dollar.\r\n\r\n><em>Skolar</em> \u2013 I like
    it, and it hints on the edgy quality for sure (not settled on it, but I'll keep
    it in mind). It's a shame there's no small caps.\r\n\r\nIf I'm honest, I'm glad
    you're getting drawn in on this project. You've been a tremendous help!"
  created: '2014-03-18 01:25:47'
- author:
    name: nburns
    picture: 127209
  body: "Branching off on the edgy side, any thoughts on the suitability of the following
    as extended text faces? Is Arno too modern for <em>Dracula</em>?\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/adobe/arno/|Arno]]</li>\r\n<li>[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/hoftype/quant/|Quant]]</li>\r\n<li>[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/hoftype/ashbury/|Ashbury]]</li>\r\n<li>[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/justanotherfoundry/lapture/|Lapture]]</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nNathan"
  created: '2014-03-18 01:57:06'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Of course there are small caps in Skolar. In the full version I have, I believe
    even in polytonic Greek and Cyrillic. If you have any questions, get up with David
    \ B\u0159ezina at Rosetta.\r\n\r\nBuy direct, not through MyFonts.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.rosettatype.com/\r\n\r\nOne
    thing to add: If you're having a book printed \"via a digital press,\" that essentially
    means laser xerography, and you'll usually find that type is not so thin  -- or
    accurate -- with that printing method as with 2,400 dpi offset. And that reopens
    the door for some of the old metal faces.\r\n\r\nBe aware that type weight from
    laser printers can vary considerably. Maintenance of those machines can vary considerably,
    too. A publisher we work for recently had a job run on one of them, and after
    a test file, asked us to red0 the images, as the black point was too high, and
    the blacks were also streaky. As indeed they were, but we pointed out that was
    the same with the large, black display type on the title page. And no, the type
    wasn't screened. Color management was not the problem with the images, crappy
    machine maintenance was.\r\n\r\nGet some samples. You should be able to see them
    for free, from the (hopeful) printer. Knowing your materials and how they will
    act in the environment you're using them is a huge part of being successful. "
  created: '2014-03-18 02:01:26'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Taking a look at some of the designs mentioned, I saw that Skolar seems to
    me to be similar to a great many 21st-century typefaces, including not a few on
    Google Fonts; whatever the original of that sort of typeface is, it has been widely
    copied.\r\n\r\nBut it doesn't look anything like Trinit\xE9; I guess they're just
    both good faces.\r\n\r\nTrinit\xE9 reminds me a bit of Palatino, another very
    successful face. In trying to find out about the inspiration for Trinit\xE9, though,
    to determine if similar faces were more inexpensively available, I found that
    it was designed as an alternative to converting the typeface Roman\xE9e by noted
    type designer Jan van Krimpen to the phototypesetter.\r\n\r\nThe reason for designing
    a new typeface instead was that Roman\xE9e, like most other typefaces in hot metal,
    was subtly varied for each point size. Today, of course, some typefaces come in
    different forms suggested for use at different point sizes (examples range from
    Times Ten to Cycles) and so Roman\xE9e ought to be digitized someday.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    while Trinit\xE9 reminded me of Palatino, Roman\xE9e reminds me of Caledonia.
    They don't seem to be that similar to one another. Which fact is in no way a criticism
    of <strong>Bram</strong> de Does (another reason for that face being appropriate
    to an edition of <em>Dracula</em>!) but it doesn't help me in finding the roots
    of that letterform.\r\n\r\nAfter some more looking, I can't find anything that
    strongly resembles Trinit\xE9. However, I did run across [[http://www.identifont.com/find?font=Maiola&q=Go|Maiola]],
    which also won some awards and which looks quite nice."
  created: '2014-03-18 02:06:47'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Hmm. Trinit\xE9 -- Roman condensed No. 2 -- doesn't at all remind me of Palatino.
    Well, a loose affiliation with Manutius, very loose. Same phylum?\r\n\r\nWhile
    it doesn't quite present correctly on the new Adobe Reader, here is a sample,
    designed by Richard Eckersley. Try viewing at 200% as well as \"automatic zoom.\"\r\n\r\nhttps://www.tug.org/texshowcase/6553-sample.pdf\r\n\r\nHere
    is a link to Richard's specifications\r\n\r\nhttps://www.tug.org/texshowcase/6553-specs.pdf\r\n\r\nThese
    days, most would use 14 or 15 point of leading with this text, but Richard, by
    the publisher's request, was fitting in an 2,800 characters per page...\r\n\r\nEdit:
    He's using an 54-unit em, if the letterspacing values don't make sense to you.
    \"4 units\" on a 54-unit em equals about \"75 units\" with InDesign's 1,000 unit
    em.\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-18 02:53:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If by \"digital press\" you mean letterpress using photopolymer plates: no
    metal fonts are used.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-18 02:57:37'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I take a digital press to be fast, large laser printers, as are used for
    short-run book production -- < 500 copies, or for on-demand printing. I never
    kept up with the polymer plates after Stephen Steinour quit on them, so I don't
    know what they're capable of today.\r\n\r\nEven though I flat can't read at all
    without glasses anymore, I believe I can see the difference between a page printed
    offset and one a \"digital press,\" without wearing glasses, at 3-foot viewing
    distance, with a 10-second examination. Just look at the color of the type and
    the regularity of the letterfit. (Edit: I just checked. Now, I have to wear glasses
    to see the difference. As a child of 60, I didn't.)\r\n\r\nPut it this way, I
    can't do final kerning based on laser printouts from the machine at the office,
    and I don't see any improvement with the \"digital presses.\" It is probably heretical,
    but I think they're capable of better work with images than with type -- properly
    maintained, of course. And it is hard for them to hold an ICC profile as they
    heat up, which does change the black and midrange points. Still..."
  created: '2014-03-18 03:21:12'
- author:
    name: nburns
    picture: 127209
  body: "John\u2013\r\nI ran across Maiola earlier too! That might be the one; glad
    to hear you liked it too. Eastern European roots, so potentially appropriate for
    the Romanian aspect of <em>Dracula</em>.\r\n\r\nCharles\u2013\r\nI'll definitely
    ask for samples from the printer, thanks.\r\n\r\n>> \"laser xerography ... reopens
    the door for some of the old metal faces\"\r\nAny typefaces that in particular
    that you think are now fair game? (You nixed a few mentioned earlier in this thread;
    wondering which of those maybe inspired this sentence.)\r\n\r\nThanks for the
    brief lessons on printing and on Trinit\xE9 \u2013 both are very enlightening."
  created: '2014-03-18 05:55:45'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>Any typefaces that in particular that you think are now fair game?</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure there are some, but as our work is for publishers who (almost) always print
    offset, I don't have any experience with just which thin, anemic revivals look
    passable on a digital press. \r\n\r\nThe point I hope I've made is that these
    days, with the (1) multiple and (2) different from historical ways of printing,
    you have to see the type in use to evaluate it.\r\n\r\nWhat you see praised in
    classical books on type -- written before, say, 1960, likely won't look that way
    in 2015. And what worked before DTP (circa 2000), may well not work now. <strong>Letterforms</strong>
    per se. are not the biggest issue anymore. "
  created: '2014-03-18 12:57:24'
- author:
    name: nburns
    picture: 127209
  body: "You have made your point. I think my na\xEFve, <em>what-typeface-am-I-going-to-use</em>
    mindset kept me from understanding it, so thank you for taking the time to clarify.\r\n\r\nNathan"
  created: '2014-03-18 13:55:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nathan, the [[http://books.google.com/books?id=k39vHp-5VeMC&printsec=frontcover&dq=dracula&hl=en&sa=X&ei=F00oU9iOGIe90AGLvoHQBA&ved=0CFoQ6AEwBg#v=onepage&q=dracula&f=false|original
    edition]] was not in Scotch Roman, but in a version of Caslon, which was fashionable
    in the 1890s. There is a [[http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/WilliamsCaslonText/|recent
    revival of Caslon]], which if you use the 'short descender' option and set it
    nearly solid, will get a similar look (but not over inked\u2014better color :) "
  created: '2014-03-18 14:09:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Letterforms per se. are not the biggest issue anymore.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThey
    never were. But they remain significant, and arguably are the biggest issue in
    the context of... Typophile.  :-)\r\n\r\nWhat a person spends time on is a balance
    of his desires and what society expects.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-18 15:36:00'
- author:
    name: nburns
    picture: 127209
  body: "<blockquote>There is a recent revival of Caslon</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the recommendation, William! I actually had found the thread earlier where
    you were discussing your typeface with another book designer who, incidentally,
    was setting <em>Dracula</em> (alongside some other early 20th century novels).
    He liked your Caslon revival, but I believe he chose a version of Walbaum for
    that book. I like yours as well, and financial considerations not in order (aka
    if I wasn't a student), I'd buy it in a heartbeat and likely use it for this book.\r\n\r\nAs
    it is, your hard work deserves to rewarded, so I'll bookmark it for later when
    I can afford a little type indulgence."
  created: '2014-03-18 18:48:28'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Charles Ellertson:\r\n<cite>I don't have any experience with just which
    thin, anemic revivals look passable on a digital press.</cite>\r\n\r\nGood one!\r\n\r\nA
    lot of digital revivals are thin and anemic.\r\n\r\nI've felt that even modern
    hot metal Caslons are thin and anemic, because to me old documents printed in
    Caslon looked attractive when there was a significant ink spread. The first printed
    version of the Declaration of Independence is an example of what I think it takes
    to make Caslon look right as a face for normal body text.\r\n\r\nAside from ink
    spread, the next major reason for digital revivals being thin and anemic is because
    they're often designed after, say, the 48 point version of the typeface in question,
    if a good specimen is available - when, of course, typefaces historically have
    been made wider and bolder in the smaller point sizes, whether in the punchcutting
    era or the pantograph era, and in most cases typefaces are most often used in
    sizes around 11 points or so.\r\n\r\nHowever, just because a lot of digital revivals
    <em>have been</em> thin and anemic does not in any way mean that a digital revival
    must necessarily be thin and anemic. If you know better, you can do better. So,
    while I'm sure there will be a lot more thin and anemic digital revivals in future,
    the existence of faces like Times Ten, Cycles, and even Adobe Caslon shows that
    occasionally this particular fault can and will be avoided (yes, Adobe Caslon
    fails in some other respects, related to authenticity - but it isn't thin and
    anemic)."
  created: '2014-03-19 06:04:42'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The original edition of Dracula was published in 1897, but not by W. R. Caldwell;
    rather, it was published by Archibald Constable & Company. I've seen one image
    purporting to be a page from that edition on a hotel's web site; it looked like
    a typeface I would have expected from that period - Phemister's Old Style.\r\n\r\n(In
    searches relating to this, I found that the American Drawing Book by John Gadsby
    Chapman probably was responsible for the plaint \"I can't even draw a straight
    line\" later employed in art school advertising as representing a misconception.)\r\n\r\nI've
    since confirmed, by finding an Ebay listing for the first edition, that it was
    what was pictured here -\r\n\r\n[[http://www.bradfordmidlandhotel.com/famous-guests-bram-stoker]]\r\n\r\nthe
    picture, even after clicking on it for an enlarged version, is too small for me
    to be completely sure of the typeface, though it strongly seems to be Phemister."
  created: '2014-03-19 06:25:44'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>the existence of faces like Times Ten, Cycles, and even Adobe
    Caslon</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI find these thin and anemic. Cycles is a particularly
    interesting and tragic case. I believe Sumner had homage to Jack Stauffacher in
    mind with Cycles, maybe Staufffacher even participated a little in it's design.
    Before \"application files to the printer\"  became the norm (no repro from the
    typesetter), Cycles worked pretty good. I used it a fair bit when I designed books,
    and even bought a license for a customer who (perpetually) claimed their font
    budget was empty. \r\n\r\nWhen the direct-to-plate process became the norm, it
    was just too light, period -- at least for bookwork printed offset, it's primary
    purpose. Worse, by that time, Sumner had created several sizes, so the work involved
    in beefing it up for the new platemaking technologies would have been enormous.
    Still, I would have done it, had (interior) designers been willing to specify
    it.  But they wouldn't, most kept pursuing the silly quest for the magic typeface
    that would win them design awards.\r\n\r\n\r\n^ ^ ^\r\n\r\nI must be one of the
    few people who likes Times Roman. I don't like Times Ten, but the Linotype Times
    was pretty good in Photocomp. Look at the details of lower-case s for an example
    in the different thinking. Again, it was never adjusted for direct-to-plate printing,
    and again, there was no point in working on it, because no contemporary designer
    would specify it. Would have been wasted hours\r\n\r\nFinally, you should take
    a look at just how ink spread with various letterpress printing. Partly a trick
    question. Ink spread was (1) not linear, and (2) varied with the papers used.
    I've seen Linotype Granjon printed letterpress that looked as thin as most modern
    revivals; this printed from the original metal, not stereo plates or pulled repro,
    using a hard, calendered sheet. \r\n\r\nI've at least touched on all this -- with
    a few examples -- in a chapter in Rich Hendel's <cite>Aspects of Contemporary
    Book Design</cite>. But that's really aimed at the interested-but-uninformed reader,
    people like book editors. Probably not worth the price for most people who inhabit
    Typophile."
  created: '2014-03-19 12:32:11'
- author:
    name: nburns
    picture: 127209
  body: "<blockquote>It looked like a typeface I would have expected from that period
    - Phemister's Old Style</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIs there any digital version of Phemister's
    type that you would recommend? Looking at the various Bookman faces available
    online, very few seem as mature as I would like for <em>Dracula</em>. That's my
    impression, anyway. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/marksimonson/bookmania/|Bookmania]]
    might work I suppose, but does it err on the 1960's side of Bookman?\r\n\r\nI've
    revisited [[http://www.type-together.com/Maiola|Maiola]] several times, and it's
    definitely a typeface I am strongly considering. It's on the top edge of my budget
    (after student discount, roughly $100 for roman and italic), but I like it every
    time I look at it.\r\n\r\nFinally, [[http://www.linotype.com/1237/minister-family.html|Minister]]
    may not be my most mature suggestion, but it does have a dark and sinister quality
    that is kind of fun... Mock me if you must, but is it inappropriate for an extended
    text?"
  created: '2014-03-20 21:58:07'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: The journal <cite>American Literature</cite> http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/American_Literature_%28journal%29
    was set in Century Oldstyle, at least, from 2000 to 2010. You could go to your
    library to see how it looked, printed.
  created: '2014-03-20 22:45:32'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I don't know of any version of Phemister Old Style currently available, not
    counting a distressed face based on it by the HPLHS. However, [[www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/century-old-style/|Century
    Oldstyle]] is readily available, and is similar.
  created: '2014-03-20 23:04:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maiola is a very good choice.\r\n\r\nFor display check out the work of this
    foundry:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/foundry/Catharsis_Fonts/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-21 00:22:25'
- author:
    name: nburns
    picture: 127209
  body: "Thank you all for your input!\r\n\r\nGiven enough funds, I'll set my book
    in Maiola. If I'm forced to go the cheaper route, I'm thinking New Caledonia;
    I like the somewhat-Scotch-Roman but modern-enough feel of it.\r\n\r\nCharles\r\nI
    couldn't find that journal (small school...) but I did find similar faces in some
    other books. I'm growing to appreciate Phemister's type with my research, but
    I'm not feeling it for this book.\r\n\r\nHrant\r\nI'm drawn to the Catharsis Foundry's
    display Octant. I'm usually not a sucker for display faces, but I could definitely
    see that used for cover and chapter headings.\r\n\r\n<em>Edit: misspelled Octant</em>"
  created: '2014-03-21 02:39:50'
date: '2014-03-17 03:20:52'
title: "Typesetting my first book \u2013 choosing a typeface"

---
