---
author:
  name: Amaris
body: "Hello. I've been lurking here for several years, but never logging on. I've
  gotten great help from everyone here for that long just from reading all the wonderful
  posts here. So firstly, thank you for being amazing people. \r\n\r\nI had a question
  that has been bothering me for a good long while.\r\n\r\nHave any of you ever encountered
  a typeface in a film or other work that did not belong in the setting's time period?
  Especially if it just wasn't invented during the era in the film?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "Try this:\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/en/2255/fontesdecinma.html"
  created: '2014-03-16 12:46:20'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Hmm. This Basic Commercial - is it supposed to look like a wider News Gothic,
    or is it Akzidenz Grotesk (Standard)?
  created: '2014-03-16 15:53:35'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: "Mark Simonson has a few analyses of this kind on his blog: \r\n\r\nhttp://www.marksimonson.com/notebook/view/typecasting\r\nhttp://www.marksimonson.com/notebook/category/son-of-typecasting"
  created: '2014-03-16 16:26:46'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "When Trajan is used on a poster I think you can almost guarantee it's contextually
    wrong. As I said in an other thread, don't put a glyphic roman typeface on a movie
    about Egyptian mummies (The Mummy) or on a movie about a 1912 British ship (Titanic).\r\n\r\nI
    don't really agree with Mark Simonson when he says the title on a movie poster
    doesn't have to be contextual. Indeed the rules are not as strict as on in-movie
    typography, but selecting a glyphic roman typeface to represent everything surrounding
    the RMS Titanic is just ignorant. Other than that, I greatly enjoyed the blog
    posts."
  created: '2014-03-16 17:16:25'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: I saw The Book Thief while visiting Melbourne and was struck (in a totally
    wrong way) by the close ups of some books, that should have been in German but
    were in English, which would not be much of a bother, but you could see at first
    glance that the pages were PRINTED on an inkjet...
  created: '2014-03-16 19:31:56'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I think Mark Simonson is right. Text on a movie poster, and on the opening
    titles and closing credits of a movie, should be appropriate aesthetically, emotionally,
    and evocatively to the content of the movie. But there is no question of anachronism
    involved, unlike the case of typography on props within the movie.\r\n\r\nIt isn't
    a question of the same rule applying, only less strictly. The rule against anachronism
    does not apply <em>at all</em>, but an entirely different rule applies, although
    that rule <em>may</em> be best satisfied by a typeface which was available during
    the period of the events in the movie, since by being associated with the time,
    it might also be evocative and suggestive of the movie content."
  created: '2014-03-16 21:22:52'
- author:
    name: Amaris
  body: "^ That's an interesting point. In The Artist, for example, it's clear that
    the typeface used for the opening credits, I think, are supposed to be evocative
    of the era, but not a perfect representation of that time period.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    after reading Simonson's article and some of his list, I was struck by how much
    other glaring anachronistic and misused type was present in The Artist! For such
    a high profile, critically acclaimed film, I honestly expected more. I don't think
    the surprised expression has left my brow yet.\r\n\r\nI simply do not understand
    why one would not enlist the help of a professional typographer to make things
    accurate. Even without, google is more than helpful when it comes to choosing
    a proper typeface. Just as they research costumes and the like, so, too, should
    they research typefaces.\r\n\r\nBut I guess google searches (like dystopias and
    accurate science) are too hard for some movie-makers to accomplish. Too harsh?"
  created: '2014-03-17 04:09:30'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "In my view a font should evoke the style of a period, but I have no problem
    with the use of appropriate fonts that were designed after the time period. For
    example, I'm using a TV series rather than a movie here, but it's the first thing
    that comes to mind. In Downton Abby, the classy lettering is Bernhard Modern.
    Designed more than 20 years after the the series time period begins, it's an expression
    of the sophisticated tastes of Upstairs at Downton Abby in a way that speaks more
    clearly to modern viewers than alternative typefaces from the immediate pre Great
    War period, which might be distracting because they are generally unknown or seem
    quaint to the modern eye.\r\nBTW Trajan is the Comic Sans of contemporary movies
    with a historical theme. Some imagination needed here!\r\nDon"
  created: '2014-03-17 13:55:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.vudu.com/movies/#!overview/130843/Becoming-Jane\">Becoming
    Jane</a> is a typical example, set in late 18th century England (watch the Preview).\r\n\r\nBaskerville,
    Bodoni or Bell would have been correct. Even Caslon. But Adobe Garamond? That
    is so 16th century. Or 1990. And letterspaced?\r\n\r\nThis is the same practice
    as book designers, who will use old-styles for 19th century subject matter, not
    the more appropriate Scotch.\r\n\r\n(However, the handwriting in that <em>Becoming
    Jane</em> title is nicely done.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-17 20:05:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I recall Adam Twardoch having a fit over the appearance of Arial Cyrillic
    on a document in _Enemy at the Gates_.
  created: '2014-03-17 20:46:52'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Nick Shinn:\r\n<cite>This is the same practice as book designers, who will
    use old-styles for 19th century subject matter, not the more appropriate Scotch.</cite>\r\n\r\nBwa-ha-ha-ha!\r\n\r\nFinally,
    I, William Morris, have achieved my ULTIMATE VICTORY!"
  created: '2014-03-17 22:16:06'
- author:
    name: Amaris
  body: "I like that train of thought donshottype. Evoking the feeling of the era
    to the modern viewer... it does look nice.\r\n\r\nI don't think that I have such
    a problem with using typefaces for their aesthetic appeal over historical perfection.
    It looks really lovely when it's done well.\r\n\r\nIt's just when movies that
    have every other detail perfect, right down to the shoelaces, but the typography
    is horrendous that it really grinds my gears.\r\n\r\nIt's not fair, darn it."
  created: '2014-03-18 03:01:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "This, is from Da Vinci's Demons, Florence circa 1476, and had me wondering
    on future product placements for us in the past. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Leo'sFonts_4300.png]"
  created: '2014-03-18 11:24:04'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "Emanual brought to our attention Da Vinci's Demons, Florence circa 1476.
    Incredible! The font says strip mall, nothing happening here folks, keep on moving.\r\nDon"
  created: '2014-03-18 13:10:44'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "Amaris says \"It's just when movies that have every other detail perfect,
    right down to the shoelaces, but the typography is horrendous that it really grinds
    my gears.\" The only way this is ever going to change is if movie critics could
    be dragged kicking and screaming from their fascination with special effects and
    star worship into slashing their ratings for movies with rotten typography.  IIRC
    I have almost never heard a movie critic mention typography, with the possible
    exception of The Artist where a few dimly gathered that something was not spot
    on.\r\nDon"
  created: '2014-03-18 13:16:52'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<cite>It isn't a question of the same rule applying, only less strictly.
    The rule against anachronism does not apply at all, but an entirely different
    rule applies, although that rule may be best satisfied by a typeface which was
    available during the period of the events in the movie, since by being associated
    with the time, it might also be evocative and suggestive of the movie content.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    seem to be insinuating this is objectively true. I can't completely agree with
    that. For some reason we became accustomed to the idea that in-movie typography
    needs to be contextual while the typography on the movie only needs to be aesthetically
    pleasing, but that's very different from arguing that this should be the case
    objectively. There is logic in placing the typography in the movie in the correct
    time and setting of the movie, but there is also logic in the design of movie
    posters. A movie poster is a visualization of a mood of the movie and needs to
    be rationally crafted to communicate exactly that. Arguably the Titanic poster
    does that, but it's not the most coherent in its message and this could easily
    be improved with better typography. The typography doesn't necessarily need to
    be contextually correct in regard to the movie, but it does need to be contextually
    correct in regard to the mood of the poster, which in turn has a strong relation
    with the movie. Because, if only aesthetics matter, why not use a magenta background
    for the poster? Because if magenta is not a prominent color in the movie, the
    poster doesn't have a clear relationship with the movie. Why would you expect
    such consistency in color, composition and theme, but not in typography?\r\n\r\nJohn,
    I think in a roundabout way I said just about the same thing as you. I agree with
    your distinction, but in practice it will always bother me if it doesn't adhere
    to my logic. This is why I'm not convinced it's an entirely objective matter."
  created: '2014-03-18 16:11:51'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<cite>This is the same practice as book designers, who will use old-styles
    for 19th century subject matter, not the more appropriate Scotch.</cite>\r\n\r\nIs
    that such a mistake though? Aren't typefaces like Caslon used because they read
    well, rather than being contextually correct to the subject matter? I don't think
    your analogy necessarily applies.\r\n\r\n<cite>I don't think that I have such
    a problem with using typefaces for their aesthetic appeal over historical perfection.
    It looks really lovely when it's done well.</cite>\r\n\r\nDefinitely. I don't
    think there is anything necessarily wrong with it as long as it's a conscious
    choice and it's well done. In most cases things go wrong due to ignorance though.
    I think every movie should have a knowledgeable typographer in their team to make
    sure the typographic details make sense.\r\n\r\n<cite>But costumes, hairstyles,
    language, and many other things often aren't historically accurate in movies.</cite>\r\nIt
    seems you're using this argument to justify the contextual deviations. I know
    that costume designers and historians will get just as annoyed and passionate
    about that as we do about typography. The reason we usually don't notice other
    inaccuracies is because we're either ignorant on the subject or we're just not
    passionate about it. Only Neil deGrasse Tyson would have complained about the
    sky in Titanic being incorrect because he has the knowledge and the passion. Only
    we would point out all the typographic inaccuracies because we have the knowledge
    and the passion.\r\n\r\n<cite>The director is just trying to evoke a time in history,
    not necessarily be accurate in every detail.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's a generalization.
    I think it's often the director's objective to do make it as accurate as possible.
    When someone in Lord of the Rings is wearing a watch, that's an overlooked mistake
    and it can't be justified by saying the director was just setting a mood so not
    all details need to be accurate. They do need to be."
  created: '2014-03-18 16:25:50'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I agree it's annoying when incorrect fonts are used. But costumes, hairstyles,
    language, historical facts, and many other things often aren't accurate in movies.
    The director is just trying to evoke a time in history, not be accurate in every
    detail.\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-18 17:30:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I was impressed with the authenticity of <em>Twelve Years a Slave</em> in
    many respects, but found everybody\u2019s perfect white teeth really jarring.\r\n
    \ "
  created: '2014-03-18 18:01:31'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">  I think it's often the director's objective to \r\n> do make it as accurate
    as possible\r\n\r\nGetting costumes historically absolutely correct or using correct
    fonts is pretty low on most directors list of priorities. But I agree there are
    occasional exceptions.\r\n\r\n>  When someone in Lord of the Rings is wearing
    a watch\r\n\r\nYes but that's a huge error that any audience member might notice.
    Very different from subtle mistakes that only experts would notice.\r\n\r\nPick
    a movie you think is very accurate and Google \"bloopers\" for it. \r\n\r\nI once
    heard Stanley Kubrick's producer say that directors try to avoid obvious errors,
    but errors that few will notice generally aren't a concern. Movies aren't reality,
    he said, but just a rough simulation of reality mixed with fiction.\r\n"
  created: '2014-03-18 20:58:23'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "\u2026<cite>but found everybody\u2019s perfect white teeth really jarring.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    curse of actors getting facings. \r\n\r\nWell, just consider every shot in a movie
    or tv-show where a newspaper is shown\u2026 None of these are printed offset or
    letterpress, but clearly inkjet or laser-printed. And mostly with the wrong typefaces.\r\n\r\nAddendum:
    But would you like to watch the personae in films like Twelve years with rotten
    teeth and/or prosthetics like the ones George Washington wore?"
  created: '2014-03-18 21:00:41'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> \u2026but found everybody\u2019s perfect white teeth really jarring.\r\n\r\nI
    remember watching Roots years ago and a female slave had perfectly manicured nails.
    \ \r\n\r\nI suspect that if we went back in a time machine we'd be shocked at
    how bad many people looked through much of history \u2014 missing teeth, pock
    marks, etc.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: seaphorm
    body: "Ironically... It seems that people's teeth back past about 300 years were
      a lot better than we instinctively think... The prevalence of cheap sugar in
      the colonial period started the rot... so to speak... \r\n\r\nIn my opinion
      the topic of type in films is similar to the role of music and real history
      in 'historic' in films. It should be correct enough that it doesn't jar the
      average non-specialist movie goer. But film makers are telling stories so a
      level of suspended belief should be expected and probably encouraged. \r\n\r\nThe
      opening battle scene in Gladiator was heavily criticised by historians because
      the Romans never threw their pilla as they advanced, and lost cohesion in the
      melee... but 98.5% of viewers neither knew or cared and probably weren't interested
      in being educated. In the same way, it probably wouldn't matter if they used
      Times New Roman for the title rather than Trajan or a custom imitation of some
      Roman text off a ruin. On the other hand it would probably jar an audience to
      see 'Gladiator' written in the Star Wars font. \r\n\r\nI'm new/don't know the
      necro rules here & found this interesting.. so sorry if I'm raising the dead... "
    created: '2014-04-17 11:30:41'
  created: '2014-03-19 00:31:15'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Martin Silvertant:\r\n<cite>You seem to be insinuating this is objectively
    true.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes. I <em>was</em>.\r\n\r\nWhen one is watching a movie,
    the ideal is that it should be as if one were viewing <em>the actual events depicted</em>,
    somehow recorded as they were happening in real life.\r\n\r\nSo an anachronistic
    typeface is a continuity failure. And, unlike expecting Hollywood actors to even
    have their heads shaved, let alone their teeth damaged (hey, but maybe someday
    we'll be able to do this with CGI), it seems an easily remedied one. I mean, they
    still will print fake newspapers on laser printers or whatever - setting up stereotype
    plates with resuscitated Linotype machines and Ludlow machines (doing Bodoni much
    of the time) is a <em>little</em> too much to expect.\r\n\r\nTitles, credits,
    and even subtitles are the packaging on the box the movie proper came in. When
    you see a title, you know you're watching a movie - documentaries have titles
    too, but the title, credits, and subtitles of a documentary <em>aren't part of
    what's being documented</em>.\r\n\r\nSo while I'm entirely OK with saying that
    those typefaces ought to \"belong\", if they're anachronistic, we're not seeing
    something that's in any sense logically impossible. A bad choice of typeface is
    simply an aesthetic failure, not a failure of the movie to present to the eyes
    what it pretends to present to the eyes.\r\n\r\nHowever, there is another half
    to your argument that <em>is</em> valid that I simply skipped over for reasons
    of space and simplicity in my original post.\r\n\r\nPeople watch <em>stage plays</em>
    for enjoyment. Even when they're performed by <em>high school students</em>. Thus,
    while it is an ideal to present to the eyes the actual events a film depicts,
    it is not a logical requirement of a well-made film that production values be
    infinite so as to achieve absolute perfection.\r\n\r\nThus, while some fanatical
    Star Trek fans may disagree with me, one couldn't really expect them to have cloned
    William Shatner, Leonard Nimoy, DeForest Kelley, Nichelle Nichols, James Doohan,
    George Takei, Walter Koenig, Majel Barrett, Grace Lee Whitney, and any other actors
    who would have been required, some 20 years or so before making the current series
    of Star Trek prequels.\r\n\r\nSo I will agree that historically correct typefaces
    are not an absolute logical necessity for a successful film, if that was your
    point."
  created: '2014-03-19 05:49:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But would you like to watch the personae in films like Twelve years with
    rotten teeth and/or prosthetics like the ones George Washington wore?<?em>\r\n\r\nOf
    course. I might even prefer it to blood and gore."
  created: '2014-03-19 06:36:30'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: And they do use makeup to give movie monsters fangs and the like, so it shouldn't
    be necessary to do anything permanent.
  created: '2014-03-19 15:33:13'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dentist_4525.jpg]\r\nLow-tech dentistry.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    that photo is a joke, I don't know, but I remember my grandfather (born 1895)
    saying that when he was a boy that almost no one when to the dentist since techniques
    were crude and painful."
  created: '2014-03-19 18:07:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Of course, a film about, say, a werewolf wouldn't work if the werewolf didn't
    have scary fangs. A film like <em>12 Years a Slave</em>, though... hardly anyone
    looks at or notices the teeth of the characters. The buildings have to look old,
    people have to use horses to get places - attention to detail is prioritized.
  created: '2014-03-19 19:12:56'
- author:
    name: Amaris
  body: "I read somewhere that several big name movie companies were bidding on making
    a movie about hardcore Santa Claus. The winner paid...wait for it... $1 Million.
    And they haven't even began filming.\r\n\r\nIf you can pay that much just for
    the rights to a story like that (resisting the urge saying anything negative),
    you can spend some money getting details right. Like for someone to print you
    out a nice newspaper. Or to not put what appears to be Gotham on the side of a
    Renaissance building. I mean really. \r\n\r\nAlthough I don't mind the perfect
    pearly whites. I mean, the Protagonist is at least justified in his perfect teeth
    as he wasn't supposed to be there in the first place. And if anyone needs a flashlight,
    the characters need only but smile. Heh."
  created: '2014-03-20 03:51:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I remember that Kelsey used to make powder that you could mix with your ink,
    so that you could then heat what you printed, and it would rise like dough, thus
    simulating the effect of intaglio printing.\r\n\r\nHollywood needs something like
    that for inkjet printers which will allow them to simulate letterpress!\r\n\r\nCome
    to think of it, at least one private press still using lead type is in the Los
    Angeles area...\r\n\r\nJohn Savard"
  created: '2014-04-17 12:22:40'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "That technique is often called thermography. Some print shops still do it,
    mostly on business cards and wedding invitations. Unfortunately it produces a
    rough, uneven surface.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Thermography_5107.jpg]\r\n\r\nIf
    I was directing a movie and wanted to show a closeup of engraving, I'd pay for
    the real thing."
  created: '2014-04-17 18:01:29'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<blockquote>If I was directing a movie and wanted to show a closeup of engraving
    ...</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAn example: The map in <em>Master and Commander: Far side
    of the world</em>. After a disastrous encounter, the Cap'n is inspecting an engraved
    map for a safe haven. As is usual in those times, some details are so fine he
    needs a magnifiying glass to read the small print. Fonts and style look okay,
    until the camera leans over his shoulder and shows the enlarged fragment, with
    its typical ink-jet splattering around what should have been super sharp lines."
  created: '2014-04-17 18:31:41'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> typical ink-jet splattering\r\n\r\nThat's a shame. The art department supplied
    an ink-jet map and the director didn't know the difference. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    a lot of designers these days (especially younger ones) have little knowledge
    about older printing methods because there's little call for them these days.
    In fact younger designers seem to know less and less about printing in general
    since everything is moving to the web and digital media."
  created: '2014-04-17 19:48:46'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "I'm waiting for the remake: With the vintage creaks and groans of the ship
    in the background and the camera rocking to simulate the roll of the waves, our
    sturdy English Cap'n in his beautifully tailored uniform of HM Royal Navy circa
    1800, reaches down to the desk, picks up his vintage iPad, and waves his fingers
    over it to pull up details on a map lettered in Hevetica...\r\nDon"
  created: '2014-04-18 04:18:53'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Sounds like an ad for an electronic sea chart app.
  created: '2014-04-18 12:04:38'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: LOL. Yes, the intentional anachronism could be used to good effect in a TV
    commercial, and there <em>are</em> even precedents for that sort of thing.
  created: '2014-04-18 14:12:07'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "I'm waiting for my cheque from the ad agency :)\r\nDon"
  created: '2014-04-18 14:54:59'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Well, we all know that the dinosaurs became extinct because a stowaway on
    Noah's ark ate them! (Noah, Darren Aronovsky) Or were they \"laughing and playing
    silly games\" instead of heeding God's call to send two pairs of each of their
    species to the Ark (not being kosher mammals, who would send seven)? (The Unicorn,
    Shel Silverstein)\r\n\r\nOr perhaps because the dinosaurs were so dangerous, Noah
    just dropped them off at a remote island before proceeding to Mount Ararat...
    one that the Daily Planet helicopter would eventually visit? (The Secret of Monster
    Island; Superman's Pal, Jimmy Olsen; v. 1, no. 72, October 1963)"
  created: '2014-04-18 16:43:58'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: ">And then there's movies showing dinosaurs and cavemen together!\r\n>\r\nFor
    example the sterling performance of Ringo Starr [yes, the Beatle] in the unforgettable
    Caveman http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File:Caveman_Movie_Poster.jpg\r\nAt least
    the title lettering suggests some sort of stone age.\r\nDon"
  created: '2014-04-18 16:57:41'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> picks up his vintage iPad\r\n\r\nStranger things have happened in movies...
    \r\n\r\nIn \"Braveheart\" men wore kilts which weren't worn until 4 centuries
    later. \r\n\r\nIn the WWII movie \"Saving Private Ryan\" there's a motorcycle
    not manufactured until 1963. \r\n\r\nWesterns often show men's pants with belt
    loops, which didn't become common until years later (men wore suspenders). \r\n\r\nHistorical
    movies typically portray leading men & women who look attractive by today's standards,
    not what was considered attractive back then (women were often considered attractive
    with no tan and overweight by today's standards, and men often had shaggy beards).\r\n\r\nAnd
    then there's movies showing dinosaurs and cavemen together!"
  created: '2014-04-18 17:05:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I found some encouraging stuff in searches related to this:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.equip.org/bible_answers/is-there-evidence-that-humans-and-dinosaurs-walked-together/]]"
  created: '2014-04-18 18:10:45'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I'm a Christian but not a Creationist. Statistics I've seen say the majority
    of mainline protestants and Catholics accept evolution, but the Creationists tend
    to get the headlines.\r\n\r\nI haven't seen the latest Noah movie with Russell
    Crowe that's getting a lot of attention, but my pastor said he enjoyed it, although
    it took considerable liberties with the story. But that's true of many Hollywood
    movies. Those old Cecil B. DeMille movies of Bible stores took great liberties,
    but were crowd pleasers."
  created: '2014-04-18 20:31:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Does the movie mention anything about Armenia[ns]?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-18 20:41:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'They had two of them on board, obviously. '
  created: '2014-04-18 22:56:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Very funny.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-18 23:50:00'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Armenia is very close to the Black Sea, and one theory about the great flood
    (published in academic journals) is that the Black Sea was created in a catastrophic
    event around 5600 BC when waters from the Mediterranean Sea breached a barrier
    and rushed in to create the sea. \r\n\r\nSince thousands of square miles were
    flooded, and communication methods were primitive, someone living in that area
    might indeed feel that whole world (from their perspective) was flooded.\r\n\r\nSo
    maybe Noah was sort-of Armenian! ;)\r\n\r\n(I don't believe the Bible story is
    literally true, but it might have been loosely based on some actual events.)"
  created: '2014-04-19 00:22:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But Armenians are \"only\" 3\u20134K years old.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-19 00:29:55'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Yes, that's why I said "sort-of", meaning from the same general area of the
    world.
  created: '2014-04-19 04:38:59'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I would have supposed that Ham's wife would have to have been African, while
    Japeth's wife would have to have been Asian. As for Armenians, wouldn't that have
    to wait until the Tower of Babel?
  created: '2014-04-19 12:21:36'
date: '2014-03-16 05:47:02'
title: Films with Typefaces From the Wrong Time Period

---
