---
author:
  name: stinkyfoot
body: I'm considering creating a font created from an old typeface from a specimen
  book with an expired copyright and making it available for free for both commercial
  and non-commercial use. My goal is to get social media followers. More free fonts
  could follow if there are signs that the approach works. Do you think that's a realistic
  goal? Is there something I might have better success with? The typeface I've considered
  is Bodoni. Do you have a better recommendation?
comments:
- author:
    name: stinkyfoot
  body: My business sells a (kind of mundane) utility that designers and developers
    use. It's not otherwise involved in aspects of design, such as typography.
  created: '2014-04-13 17:03:39'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "As Hrant said, exceptional. Bodoni is a classic typeface but boring. So many
    versions of it already exist in most people's font libraries that it is unlikely
    you would get many takers. Most people I know wouldn't bother.\r\n\r\nThen there's
    the fact that making a high quality font requires a lot of time, thought and effort. "
  created: '2014-04-13 17:39:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There are SO many free fonts out there, the only way this could work is if
    you made something exceptional. And typeface design is hard enough when it's mundane...\r\n\r\nNow,
    if there were some sort of connection between the particular font and the reason
    people would follow you, that would have a better chance. A good reference here
    might be Phinney's Cristoforo*, which leaned on a connection with \"Call of Cthulhu\".\r\n\r\n*
    https://www.kickstarter.com/projects/tphinney/cristoforo-victorian-cthulhu-fonts-revived-again/posts/719229
    \r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: stinkyfoot
    body: That's a really relevant link, hrant. It's also funny that I'm reading about
      Hermann Ihlenburg for the second time today after being clueless about him before
      now.
    created: '2014-04-13 18:07:26'
  created: '2014-04-13 17:45:40'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "I see no legal issues in creating a font from an old specimen book. \r\nIf
    you want people to be able to use the font for both personal and commercial use,
    package an Open Font License with the font http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/SIL_Open_Font_License
    \r\nDafont http://www.dafont.com/ is perhaps the most reputable of the free font
    distributors. Also Font Squirrel http://www.fontsquirrel.com/\r\nAs for getting
    social media followers by offering the font, I leave it to others to provide proper
    advice.\r\nDon"
  created: '2014-04-14 16:55:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you're going to release a libre font, using Apache instead of OFL will
    allow more people (especially those with more expertise in type design) to participate
    in its future.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-14 17:14:01'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: Hrant and I disagree about this. OFL will allow more people to participate
    because it means all derivatives will be libre :)
  created: '2014-04-23 20:35:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Apache does not stop people from deriving free fonts, while OFL does stop
    people who cannot allow themselves that luxury, due to factors essentially out
    of their control. OFL is idealistic to the point of in fact actually doing damage
    to minority writing systems, and you can see this in action when you look closely
    at the low quality of non-Latin derivations. Apache is humanly pragmatic, resulting
    in higher quality typography for more disadvantaged people.\r\n\r\nWhen you decide
    to release a font under OFL instead of Apache you are \u2013whether you realize
    it or not\u2013 adopting a narrow view of what kinds of people should be designing
    fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-23 21:21:03'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "@hrant, have you even noticed how much your overs here make you sound like
    a petulant freetard?\r\n\r\nAs an aside, my two favourite licences for releasing
    my stuff (when I can be bothered to stick a licence on it) are the three-clause
    BSDL and the WTFPL. The former is very permissive, the latter is ultra-permissive."
  created: '2014-04-23 21:48:17'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The well-known typefaces of which someone has made an open source imitation
    for potential distribution with Linux that I know of offhand are:\r\n\r\nTimes
    Roman\r\nPalatino\r\nHelvetica\r\nBaskerville\r\nCentury Schoolbook\r\nOptima\r\nGoudy
    Old Style\r\nKennerly\r\nDeepdene\r\n\r\nThere are a couple of Clarendons on Google
    Web Fonts, but no versions that I know of based on major popular Clarendon typefaces.\r\n\r\nBodoni,
    Cloister Oldstyle, Jenson Oldstyle, Peignot Bold, Bembo, Poliphilus, Avant-Garde,
    Futura, Gill Sans and a host of other well-known faces have not yet been dealt
    with in this manner, even if Bitstream has made versions of some of them.\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, I can't even think of a free Garamond out there. So there's plenty of scope
    for anyone who feels like making the effort to add an open-source version of a
    classic typeface to what is out there already. If one deals only with classic
    typefaces, whose designs have fallen out of whatever protection they may have
    had in some countries, one won't be taking bread and butter out of the mouths
    of today's type designers, at least not too badly, I would think."
  children:
  - author:
      name: stinkyfoot
    body: '@quadibloc: Thanks for the list of existing free fonts.'
    created: '2014-05-16 19:36:29'
  created: '2014-04-23 21:50:34'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'll have to read the license, as the Wikipedia article is confusing. It
    appears that the requirement that fonts must be packaged with software only applies
    to selling them for money, not for all redistribution. That apparent silliness,
    though, may not be what Hrant is objecting to.\r\n\r\nOK, I've read the license,
    and although it's much briefer than the GPL, I can't see a problem.\r\n\r\nAh:\r\n<cite>Apache
    does not stop people from deriving free fonts, while OFL does stop people who
    cannot allow themselves that luxury, due to factors essentially out of their control.
    OFL is idealistic to the point of in fact actually doing damage to minority writing
    systems,</cite>\r\n\r\nreading what Hrant said lets me see what the issue is;
    that issue is that the OFL <strong>is</strong> like the GPL instead of the BSD
    license.\r\n\r\nThe objection is reasonable - people who use minority writing
    systems tend to live in poor countries, and so they may not be able to indulge
    themselves the way people in rich countries might by working for free. While people
    in the rich world might not have any problem drawing the <em>glyphs</em> for the
    writing system of a foreign language competently, it may well take a native speaker
    to set up all the various Unicode composition rules for a given language correctly.\r\n\r\nSo
    an OFL-licensed font does not serve as a resource for commercial indigenous font
    designers.\r\n\r\nBut why did the GPL come about in the first place? To prevent
    someone from tweaking a program, making a few improvements, and then preventing
    the originators of the program from making similar improvements without copying
    anything from that person's implementation.\r\n\r\nI see this limitation of the
    GPL, therefore, as coldly practical - not <em>primarily</em> a manifestation of
    the idealism that Richard Stallman indeed does advocate. I too have lots of problems
    with Richard Stallman's idealism; as far as I'm concerned, people producing IP
    and making money from it under the current copyright regime are not doing anything
    questionable (merely by doing so).\r\n\r\nThe scarcity that leads to the world's
    real poverty problems isn't scarcity of IP, which is so easy to copy, legally
    or otherwise. It's scarcity of land, shelter, food, water... neither legal copies
    of Linux or pirate copies of Windows or Britney Spears records will help all that
    much with that.\r\n\r\nThis is not to deny that computers haven't helped to improve
    the efficiency of the production of physical goods. But, if Brazil needed an operating
    system for its computers, it has the resources to write one. And the gains are
    relatively small ones; agriculture hasn't improved by Moore's Law style leaps
    and bounds."
  created: '2014-04-24 04:16:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, the problem with OFL is that it reduces the chances of minority scripts
    enjoying higher quality typography (which we have in fact been seeing on the ground,
    with Armenian and other scripts). Because of human nature.\r\n\r\n{Added:}\r\nAs
    an aside, as far as I'm concerned the critical contribution of native insight
    arises first and foremost in the proper design of <em>glyphs</em>. Without nativity
    (or a great deal of native help) one can only mimic precedent (which is not true
    cultural contribution).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-24 04:28:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Reynir: I don't know what \"overs\" means here; dedication to candor and
    true \u2013as opposed to hypothetical\u2013 social jusice is not petulance; and
    you're using \"freetard\" incorrectly (furthermore with you and David in fact
    being a much better fit).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-24 04:31:19'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I apologize that I was busy making a major addition to my post, about Richard
    Stallman's idealism, while you were replying to it.\r\n\r\nIn any case, while
    your point about mimicking precedent is valid, it contrasts with rather than contradicting
    my post, except perhaps contradicting a misunderstanding on my part.\r\n\r\nOf
    course non-native designers normally can't properly contribute to the aesthetic
    development of a script that is alien to them. But when you speak of the OFL harming
    minority scripts, I had thought in terms of how existing OFL faces for those scripts
    were most likely to be defective.\r\n\r\nIf they don't follow the proper writing
    rules for the language, then they are unusable for the native speakers of the
    language to express themselves. Correcting that would be a lot of work, which
    people in the target area might not be able to do for free. That would obviously
    be a problem.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, if those faces are fully usable, then
    they're not doing cultural damage. That any commercial operation seeking to make
    new styles of type available in the target area for pay would have to do their
    own Open Type coding doesn't strike me as an issue. If we're talking about a poor
    country where people can't afford to work for free, we're also talking about a
    poor country where people can't afford to pay for fonts. So why is the culture
    endangered by firms serving the rich elite having to do their own work?\r\n\r\nNow,
    though, this is a massive oversimplification. Most people in the United States
    would never pay over $1,000 for a font, but they read magazines published by companies
    that have done so. Poor countries still have businesses in them which have appreciable
    amounts of capital.\r\n\r\nPoor countries also tend to be small countries, and
    if they have more complex scripts than ours, the position I have taken so far
    would seem to demand that their economies support typographical firms larger than
    Adobe. Except that Adobe supports a lot of scripts, and I had thought it wasn't
    <em>that</em> hard to specify ligatures and such in OpenType.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    that's based on a picture of a \"complex script\" being something like the one
    for Thai or Burmese, say. Maybe you're thinking of something more along the lines
    of Nastaliq' - for which, I notice, the Pakistani government has found it necessary
    to provide a font providing support. I don't know about the quality of that particular
    font; I've tended to assume it's probably basic and limited. In that case, unlike
    the case of Brahmi scripts, Ethiopic, and so on, I don't know of any OFL fonts
    produced by Westerners, though."
  created: '2014-04-24 12:28:34'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Yes, @hrant, sound like a petulant freetard. That missive of yours is so unclear,
    it looks like you want fonts to be Apache-, BSD- etc. -licensed solely so <em>you</em>
    can rip them off. 'That luxury.' What luxury? I would have to be all awake to
    even have a chance to figure it out.
  created: '2014-04-24 12:57:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, mostly I had in mind the extension of existing libre fonts for minority
    scripts.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>we're also talking about a poor country where people
    can't afford to pay for fonts.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat's where the saving grace
    of fonts \u2013being tools and not end-products\u2013 nicely comes in: the people
    paying for a good non-Latin font are not the people who most benefit, culturally;
    the latter are readers, who don't (directly at least) pay anything \u2013 the
    true \"end-users\".\r\n\r\nReynir, besides being awake, you'd have to be able
    to put yourself in other people's shoes.\r\n\r\nPeople who rip others off have
    their eyes on money. In contrast, the goal of people in my shoes is helping those
    who are getting the cold shoulder from professional type designers because OFL
    is too hippie. We can't ignore our bills. You could say we have a debt both to
    culture and to corporations!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nToday, learn about
    the Armenian Genocide.\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-24 14:53:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>That's where the saving grace of fonts \u2013being tools and not end-products\u2013
    nicely comes in: the people paying for a good non-Latin font are not the people
    who most benefit, culturally; the latter are readers, who don't (directly at least)
    pay anything \u2013 the true \"end-users\".</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, at least I did
    acknowledge that point. But I am still in the dark about one point which makes
    me still unable to fully understand your concern. What you had in mind was \"the
    extension of existing libre fonts for minority scripts\". Extension in what way?
    Adding better rules for ligatures and language processing? Adding more glyphs?\r\n\r\nWhat
    is it that those fonts in numerous cases need, and which cannot reasonably be
    expected to be provided for free, that is being obstructed by the OFL? Unless
    I know the nature of the harm claimed to be caused, I can't either agree or disagree
    with your claim that there's a problem.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, being a long-time
    reader of <em>The Register</em>, I wouldn't be inclined to call you wildly inappropriate
    names in lieu of productive discussion in any case.\r\n\r\nEDIT: I see you wrote
    \"which we have in fact been seeing on the ground, with Armenian and other scripts\",
    and that is a tip-off that complex scripts aren't the issue, as Armenian isn't
    a complex script any more than Greek or Latin are. And since your comments were
    initially directed at the OP, whose project involved a new typeface for the Latin
    script, then it seems you mean extending an existing libre font <em>by adding
    the characters for the minority script to it</em>.\r\n\r\nIf this is in fact your
    concern, then I am going to have to say that I find serious fault with the logic
    of your objection. Releasing a libre font under the OFL for the Latin alphabet
    in no way stops someone else from producing and releasing an entirely new font
    for a different alphabet in a similar style. Oh, wait, there is duplication of
    effort: the punctuation marks will have to be redrawn - and the Arabic numerals!\r\n\r\nPlease
    tell me that I am mistaken. Cultural doom cannot be the result of having to switch
    to a different font when including Latin text, or by the need to redraw digits
    and punctuation marks and other sorts."
  created: '2014-04-24 20:04:45'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Once again our posts cross. You tell me what you meant just as I'm posting
    that if that's what you meant, it seems to me like a concern that has little validity.
    So maybe that's what I'm wrong about, maybe this is a more serious issue for minority
    scripts than I realize.\r\n\r\nI'm willing to learn, but at least you can see
    why some justification is required."
  created: '2014-04-24 20:07:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, I meant adding a writing system to a Latin \u2013or more extensive\u2013
    base. Something that has historically been done to <em>commercial</em> fonts with
    not even a whiff of permission being requested... This is something I don't [want
    to] condone...\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I wouldn't be inclined to call you wildly inappropriate
    names in lieu of productive discussion in any case.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI noticed.
    A nice bonus \u2013 thank you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nToday, learn about
    the Armenian Genocide.\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-24 20:07:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually I greatly appreciate a balanced discussion on this, since I have
    to focus my thoughts for an eventual conference presentation about this topic.\r\n\r\nI
    know it's a very serious issue for me. And I'm pretty sure I'm not alone.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-24 20:10:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The reason you don't hear my complaint from many others is that most people
    in my shoes simply give up on providing quality type for minority cultures, certainly
    for those not theirs. They just stick to running their restaurants, their accounting
    business, etc. But it's wasted potential.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-24 20:34:43'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Walking in other folks' footsteps is something I'm generally good at. <em>But,</em>
    I have to be awake enough and with enough faculties working to recognise that
    there <em>are</em> footsteps there to begin with. That's why my alcohol intake
    amounts to less than a litre per year, often less than <em>half</em> a litre per
    year.
  created: '2014-04-24 22:44:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Please note the difference between walking in the holes other people have
    made versus trying to grasp what it's like being them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-24 22:52:50'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I'm sure you recall what's been said about thousand-mile journeys. And while
    you're reviewing, remember the difference between walking in others' footsteps
    and following others' footsteps. The former is 'trying to grasp what it's like
    being them'.
  created: '2014-04-25 20:13:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I have another issue with the OFL: the optional Reserved Font Name mechanism
    interacts very badly with <em>most</em> sorts of intelligent usage as web fonts.
    In such cases it becomes a restrictive license\u2014or at least a stupidly destructive
    one.\r\n\r\nThe usual course\u2014which I have seen in action\u2014is that people
    and corporations just ignore the license when an RFN is involved and they are
    doing web fonts. But that makes the Reserved Font Name a feature to avoid in OFL."
  created: '2014-04-26 20:51:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Why would somebody use RFN?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-26 22:19:07'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I personally think SIL had print in mind when they put the OFL together and
    didn't consider web use at all. Maybe the next version of the licence will address
    web use properly so there'll be no need for individual authors to add RFN exceptions.
    Until then, a subsetting tool that mungs the name fields on the fly would be a
    usable workaround, I believe; something I thought they already did. Don't browsers
    ignore name fields, anyway?
  created: '2014-04-26 22:20:48'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "RFNs allow corporate entities to contribute open-source fonts while still
    protecting their trademarks.\r\n\r\nIt does mean that the modified fonts can't
    be used as substitutes for the original without being specified explicitly. But
    in the case of web fonts, you're providing a font yourself on your web site (i.e.
    in a format like WOFF) and so your web page would specify the name of the version
    you're providing.\r\n\r\nThe only case where RFNs mess up the display of a web
    page is if you're just hoping the viewer happens to have the original font, or
    at least one of its modified versions, installed on his computer. That isn't how
    people serious about the appearance of their web page should do it anyways. So
    I'm having a hard time understanding why the RFN is a real problem."
  created: '2014-04-27 03:29:20'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "With the overemphasis on the Letter instead of the Spirit of the Law, trouble
    will ensue. And to comply with the Letter, modding (incl. subsetting) a font should
    include a renaming when RFN is in play. Reasonably easy when done by hand; oughta
    be easy when machined, but how many tools provide for it?\r\n\r\nMind, I had none
    of this in mind when I renamed 'my' Ubuntu to Gerpir or 'my' PT Sans/Serif to
    Stafnes Sans/Serif. I just wanted to have both the originals and the new'yins
    installed."
  created: '2014-04-27 21:27:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>With the overemphasis on the Letter instead of the Spirit of
    the Law, trouble will ensue.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell said.\r\nAnd that BTW is
    why I don't condone people making money by redistributing an OFL font \"packaged\"
    with some random junk.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-27 22:01:31'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>And that BTW is why I don't condone people making money by redistributing
    an OFL font \"packaged\" with some random junk.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is a practice,
    indeed, not to be condoned, because it subverts what appears to be the purpose
    of a clause in the license.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, though, because the GPL doesn't
    restrict sale of its free software, it's possible to do something legitimate with
    (at least almost) no more effort required than the practice you deplore. Sell
    a CD-ROM with a complete Linux distribution on it, packed with every OFL font
    in existence (and open-source fonts under other licenses too)... and what you're
    doing is completely legitimate, but of course those fonts are also readable from
    Windows. And yet you've written no software yourself, not even a silly little
    utility.\r\n\r\nPackaging a Linux distro on CD-ROM involves some work, sure, but
    the problem is clear; while subverting the OFL is not moral, that clause in the
    OFL practically subverts itself."
  created: '2014-04-28 02:19:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If somebody releases a font under a license that allows resale (even as-is),
    is it better to assume the person is a dunce who shouldn't be taken advantage
    of, or that he happens to believe in the sort of thing I believe in?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-28 02:47:04'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I don't understand the question. In context, it should be referring to the
    OFL, but the words seem to refer to the opposite case.
  created: '2014-04-28 05:00:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I trust we're talking about the spirit of a license (which I class above
    its letter).\r\n\r\nWhat I mean is if somebody releases a font under a license
    that allows resale (sans packaging) the only workable assumption is that he meant
    to leave that possibility open (noting that realistically the reseller would have
    to add some sort of value to the original, otherwise he won't sell many copies).
    In contrast, it's not a good assumption to think that somebody who releases an
    OFL font is OK with a third party adding some bogus \"packaging\" and selling
    the result (even though that would be legal).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-28 05:20:24'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "As an aside, AFAICT, the UFL ([[http://font.ubuntu.com/licence/|Ubuntu Font
    Licence]]) does allow direct reselling.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I think this 'indirect
    resale' provision exists so you can bundle fonts with a word processor or desktop
    publisher."
  created: '2014-04-28 12:52:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>In contrast, it's not a good assumption to think that somebody who
    releases an OFL font is OK with a third party adding some bogus \"packaging\"
    and selling the result (even though that would be legal).</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd I
    absolutely agree with that. The problem I was pointing out, though, is that it's
    possible to add packaging that's anything <em>but</em> bogus (two complete word
    processors, the associated office suites, a host of other applications, and the
    complete operating system they run on)... for less effort than adding bogus packaging
    would take! To me, at least, that raises questions like \"why did they bother\"
    - it seems as though the parties involved hadn't thought the issue through carefully.\r\n\r\nSo
    it's not just that the letter is not enough to enforce the spirit, it's that even
    the spirit of the license is placed in an awkward spot by the existence of GPL
    software that uses fonts. Because CD-ROMs are in a standard filesystem which all
    major operating systems can read, on the one hand, and including OFL fonts as
    one of the things provided in a Linux distribution does make sense for the users
    of that distribution.\r\n\r\nOf course, if the intent is really just to make the
    fonts available, one can still say that refuge is being taken in the letter to
    violate the spirit. But this case makes things <em>so</em> murky that this particular
    dichotomy is less clear-cut."
  created: '2014-04-28 14:00:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good to know about UFL.\r\nBTW are there other cases where a EULA was crafted
    for a specific typeface?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>it seems as though the parties involved
    hadn't thought the issue through carefully.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nTo me it's more
    an over-reliance on feeling. We're currently stuck between utopian delusion and
    rabid protectionism. My goal is pointing out the middle road.\r\n\r\nThe letter
    of a law is naturally <em>never</em> enough to enforce its spirit; that's where
    human morals necessarily \u2013and thankfully\u2013 come in. On the other hand,
    this separation is in fact a \"feature\" to avoid nitpicky rewriting/expansion
    of laws as social norms shift; it's a separation that mirrors human nature. I
    would further add that the intractable mushrooming of formal laws in contemporary
    society is a reflection on the incompetence of our leaders, which stems from the
    unsustainability of our system.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-28 16:44:29'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>I would further add that the intractable mushrooming of formal laws
    in contemporary society is a reflection on the incompetence of our leaders,</cite>\r\n\r\nThat
    is not what I would have blamed for it. The rule of law is a good principle in
    itself. I see three factors as responsible for this:\r\n\r\nThe complexity of
    a large-scale free-enterprise industrial society;\r\n\r\nThe increased inclusiveness
    of our societies, which has led to its being viewed as dangerous to allow latitude
    for subjective interpretations of the law, or to allow people to operate by common-sense,
    because that allows latitude to act on bigotry; and\r\n\r\nThe presence of judicial
    activism in a divided and politically-polarized society.\r\n\r\nNot even the third
    item on that list could really be prevented by any one leader being more competent.
    Maybe if a lot of people were more competent - but is it the politicians, or the
    voters, who could be more easily improved?"
  created: '2014-04-28 16:53:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, I agree that formal laws are needed. The hamartia is asking people who
    are \u2013systemically\u2013 too busy with their lives to elect their leaders.
    It cannot work. And it's not working.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-04-28 17:00:17'
- author:
    name: Joe Chau
    picture: 127318
  body: Check out Fontever.com, we don't have copyright issues since we require typographers
    to sell their fonts with full copyright (amend, resell, distribute, anything you
    can do ) to single purchaser only :)
  created: '2014-05-05 08:22:30'
- author:
    name: josesseph321
  body: 'I nerve thought that fonts need to purchase, for I always use the free fonts,
    and they are awesome all the time. For example, you can also find idea fonts in
    the article: http://www.mageewp.com/blog/resources-for-better-wordpress-themes-awesome-free-fronts-recommendation.html'
  created: '2014-05-08 10:42:20'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Incidentally, there is an historical example of why the GPL is sometimes
    needed instead of the BSD license, even though it's not directly applicable.\r\n\r\nAt
    one point, Apple sued Xerox for infringing on some aspects of the Macintosh user
    interface."
  created: '2014-05-08 13:22:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Quite preposterous when you consider that Jobs stole the GUI idea from Xerox.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-08 16:42:53'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Money makes monkey of many a man.
  created: '2014-05-08 19:31:05'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<blockquote>... Apple sued Xerox...</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI think you got it
    mixed up there. Apple sued Microsoft (and lost). Midway through <i>that</i> suit,
    Xerox tried to sue Apple on similar grounds (hoping to benefit if Apple won),
    but the case was dismissed."
  created: '2014-05-08 20:37:08'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "No, I'm not kidding. Basically, one thing that a Xerox product included that
    was not in the original Xerox PARC design Apple copied and added to... was the
    drop-down menu at the top of the screen. That let Apple sue Xerox and that led
    to Xerox withdrawing their product.\r\n\r\nEDIT: Checking, however, I can't seem
    to find a reference to this, although I do see the time when Xerox sued Apple.
    So my memory may be playing tricks on me."
  created: '2014-05-08 21:24:39'
date: '2014-04-13 16:53:06'
node_type: forum
title: Providing a font for free

---
