---
author:
  name: Fournier
  picture: 126738
body: "<strong>Neo Humanist Sans</strong> 'officially' started from the 90's decade
  thanks to German designer Erik Spiekermann and its legendary foundry FontFont.\r\nBut
  other designers followed that trend from all countries.\r\n\r\nWhat I'm interested
  in, what I want to know is what are your <strong>Neo Humanist Sans</strong> that
  you use or admire?\r\nProvide a list per decade with its use because I'm not familiar
  with the latest ones. Thank you very much.\r\n\r\n(fill the gap)\r\n1990's Neo Humanist
  Sans:\r\n\u2026\r\n2000's Neo Humanist Sans: \r\n\u2026\r\n2010's Neo Humanist Sans:
  \r\n\u2026"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Quay Sans was a little earlier, and Shannon.\r\nAlso my Shinn Sans from 1984.\r\nSome
    might even say Frutiger, which dates back to the 1960s."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Fournier
      picture: 126738
    body: "What would you recommend from the last ten years, please?\r\nThank you
      very much."
    created: '2014-05-22 23:31:47'
  created: '2014-05-22 19:16:41'
- author:
    name: Les ONeill
  body: Perhaps you might get more of a response if you were to give a succinct description
    of what you consider a 'Neo Humanist Sans' to be exactly?
  children:
  - author:
      name: Fournier
      picture: 126738
    body: "Find some examples.\r\n\r\n1990's Neo Humanist Sans\r\nITC Officina Sans\r\nFF
      Meta\r\n[[https://www.fontfont.com/fonts/scala-sans|FF Scala Sans]]\r\n[[http://typofonderie.com/fonts/parisine-plus-family/#details|Parisine
      Plus]]\r\n\r\n<strong>PS</strong>: My question also concern Neo Humanist Sans
      in the 2000's and 2010's decades.\r\nI wonder what NHS do you use in your work?"
    created: '2014-05-23 14:51:53'
  created: '2014-05-23 01:48:37'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<blockquote>Neo Humanist Sans 'officially' started from the 90's decade thanks
    to German designer Erik Spiekermann and its legendary foundry FontFont. But other
    designers followed that trend from all countries.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nDoes this
    imply that Neo Humanist Sans was started 'inofficially' Georg Salden, another
    German type designer, drew <a href=\"http://www.typemanufactur.com/de/fonts/polo/overview.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">Polo</a> and published it in 1972?\r\n\r\nBut what is Neo Humanist
    Sans anyway? Is <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/family/today_sans/\" target=\"_blank\">Today
    Sans</a> Neo Humanist Sans or just a Humanist Sans?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Fournier
      picture: 126738
    body: "<blockquote>Does this imply that Neo Humanist Sans was started 'inofficially'
      Georg Salden, another German type designer, drew Polo and published it in 1972?</blockquote>\r\n\r\n\r\n\xB6
      I believe your statement is valid.\r\nThere's a discussion about <em>Polo</em>
      and <em>FF Meta</em>:\r\nhttp://www.fontblog.de/das-geruecht-meta-sei-eine-kopie-von-polo\r\nTake
      a look at that picture comparing:\r\nhttp://luc.devroye.org/PoloMetaComparison.jpg\r\n<em>FF
      Meta</em> is a patchwork of influences: <em>Polo, Syntax, News Gothic, Akzidenz
      Grotesk</em>.\r\n\r\n\r\n<blockquote>But what is Neo Humanist Sans anyway? Is
      Today Sans Neo Humanist Sans or just a Humanist Sans?</blockquote>\r\n\r\n\xB6
      The design of <em>Today Sans</em> fits the style of <strong>Neo Humanist Sans</strong>."
    created: '2014-05-28 09:50:26'
  created: '2014-05-23 20:31:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I thought the first humanist sans was Syntax (which BTW Quay Sans was directly
    based on, with permission). But does that \"neo\" mean something [else]?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-23 22:16:37'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "<strong>Humanist Sans</strong> started in England with Edward Johnston (<em>Johnston
    Underground</em>) and Eric Gill (<em>Gill Sans</em>).\r\nThere's a 80's  trend
    of typefaces called <strong>SuperFamily</strong> or <strong>Serial</strong>  that
    integrate <strong>Humanist Sans</strong> in their family.\r\nThey were odd examples
    before the 80's concerning <strong>SuperFamily</strong>.\r\n<strong>Neo Humanist
    Sans</strong> typefaces are refined, soft and perfect for text and some offer
    ligatures as in the Old style Serifs of the Renaissance. They sometimes have the
    flavor of the <strong>Neo Grotesque</strong> like <em>Helvetica</em> but tamed
    with the Renaissance readability.\r\n\r\nLet's get back to the 2000's and 2010's
    decades and what do you see as <strong>Neo Humanist Sans</strong>?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Garamondus
    body: "<blockquote>Humanist Sans started in England with Edward Johnston (<em>Johnston
      Underground</em>) and Eric Gill (<em>Gill Sans</em>).</blockquote>\r\n\r\n\r\nI
      wouldn't use a Humanist Sans like <em>Gill Sans</em> as a text typeface. \r\nIt's
      too large and 'display-like'.\r\nFor text purpose, I prefer a Swiss Grotesque
      or German Neo-Humanist \r\nbecause they fit the task nicely.\r\nYou'd better
      take a look at Keith Tam's essay submitted at the University of Reading."
    created: '2014-05-25 10:00:18'
  created: '2014-05-23 23:39:11'
- author:
    name: Les ONeill
  body: "I think it's the use of the term \"Neo' here which is confusing the issue.
    I personally break my sans serif type into 3 basic categories: Grotesque, Geometric
    & Humanist. Neo, implies that the tradition of humanising the sans either a) stopped
    and restarted or b) that there was some sort of evolutionary 'jump' in the genre
    itself, neither of which, I personally adhere to. Which makes a 'Neo humanist
    sans' something of a misnomer for me.\r\nAs an addendum, I similarly don't find
    the term Neo Grotesque helpful or meaningful in any way in terms of evaluating
    a design's provenance. "
  created: '2014-05-24 01:39:10'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "Anyone?\r\n\r\n(fill the gap)\r\n1990's Neo Humanist Sans:\r\n\u2026\r\n2000's
    Neo Humanist Sans:\r\n\u2026\r\n2010's Neo Humanist Sans:\r\n\u2026"
  created: '2014-05-24 08:42:17'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "Still no reply\u2026 Too bad.\r\n\r\nFind a quick selection.\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2022\tITC
    Officina : 1990 (Erik Spiekermann)\r\n\u2022\tFF Meta : 1991 (Erik Spiekermann)\r\n\u2022\tFF
    Scala Sans : 1993 (Martin Majoor)\r\n\u2022\tTheSans : 1994 (Lucas de Groot)\r\n\u2022\tParisine
    : 1996 (Jean-Fran\xE7ois Porchez)\r\n\u2022\tFF Quadraat Sans : 1997 (Fred Smeijers)\r\n\u2022\tParisine
    Plus : 1999 (Jean-Fran\xE7ois Porchez)\r\n\u2022\tVia : 1999 (Bo Linnemann)\r\n\u2022\tFF
    Seria Sans : 2000 (Martin Majoor)\r\n\u2022\tFresco Sans : 2001 (Fred Smeijers)\r\n\u2022\tFF
    Unit : 2003 (Erik Spiekermann/Christian Schwartz)\r\n\u2022\tFF Nexus Sans : 2004
    (Martin Majoor)\r\n\u2022\tParisine Office : 2005 (Jean-Fran\xE7ois Porchez)\r\n\u2022\tFF
    Nuvo : 2008 (Siegfried R\xFCckel)\r\n\u2022\tFF Yoga Sans : 2009 (Xavier Dupr\xE9)"
  created: '2014-05-24 11:39:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "\u2022 <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/shinn/sense/\">Sense</a> :
    2010 (Nick Shinn)\r\n\u2022 <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/shinn/sensibility/\">Sensibility</a>
    : 2010 (Nick Shinn)\r\n\r\nIf Sense is neo-humanist, with the understanding that
    the pre\uFB01x \u201Cneo-\u201D (derived from the term applied to mid-century
    modern grotesques such as Helvetica and Univers) implies subtle understatement
    and even color, then Sensibility is what? Post-humanist? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Fournier
      picture: 126738
    body: "I appreciate the beauty of your <em>Sensibility</em> which is <strong>Neo
      Humanist Sans</strong>.\r\nDo you recommend it for the body of the text?\r\nDo
      you provide ligatures?\r\nThanks."
    created: '2014-05-24 21:45:02'
  created: '2014-05-24 18:25:48'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I suspect, @Les, that this Neo- designation is supposed to imply some sort
    of New Wave in humanist-style faces.
  created: '2014-05-24 20:02:01'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<blockquote><em>I think it\u2019s the use of the term \u2018Neo\u2019 here
    which is confusing the issue. I personally break my sans serif type into 3 basic
    categories: Grotesque, Geometric & Humanist.</em></blockquote>In my opinion, <em>neo</em>-Humanist
    sans-serifs are closer to the [neo-]Grotesques and American \u2018Gothics\u2019
    than to Humanist sans. Similarly to Humanist sans, they do feature very open apertures,
    but their proportions come from good old grotesque sans-serifs. Using Galina Bannikova\u2019s
    binary classification, one could say that the proportions of Humanist sans are
    circle-, and the neo-Humanist sans oval-based.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Neo-Humanist_Sans-Sm_6704.jpg]"
  created: '2014-05-25 23:49:30'
- author:
    name: Les ONeill
  body: "Thanks for chiming in Maxim, and that makes a lot of sense in describing
    the types of faces Fournier is referring to (and certainly helps clarify it for
    me) but does little to convince me that it's a GOOD name   :-)\r\n\r\nI neglected
    to mention that I do have a 4th category of sans and those I call 'Hybrids' which
    - in this postmodern age, where we can, and seemingly do, pick gleefully from
    any and all the available historical models - gives rise to a myriad of amalgamations
    that it becomes increasingly impossible to 'catagorise' them, hence my all encompassing
    name, hybrid."
  created: '2014-05-26 03:03:50'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "When one would like to split up Humanist Sans  into sub-groups, the idea
    of distinguishing between classical/circle/old style and classicist/oval/modern
    proportions (as shown by Maxim) makes sense to me. \r\n\r\n<strong>Humanist Sans</strong>\r\n<em>with
    classical/circle/old style/garalde proportions</em> \r\nUnderground : 1916 (Edward
    Johnston)\r\nGill Sans : 1928 (Eric Gill)\r\nSyntax : 1968 (Hans Eduard Meier)\r\nToday
    Sans Serif 1988 (Volker K\xFCster)\r\nFF Scala Sans : 1993 (Martin Majoor)\r\nCronos
    : 1996 (Robert Slimbach)\r\nFF Quadraat Sans : 1997 (Fred Smeijers)\r\nDTL Haarlemmer
    Sans : 1995 (Frank Blokland)\r\nDTL Documenta Sans : 1997 (Frank Blokland)\r\nFF
    Seria Sans : 2000 (Martin Majoor)\r\nFF Nexus Sans : 2004 (Martin Majoor)\r\nNovel
    Sans : 2010 (Christoph Dunst)\r\n\r\n<strong>Humanist Sans</strong>\r\n<em>with
    classicist/oval/modern/didonic proportions</em>\r\nGoudy Sans : 1930 (Frederic
    W. Goudy) <em>how sans is that?</em>\r\nGST Polo : 1972 (Georg Salden)\r\nCongress
    Sans : 1985 (Adrian Williams)\r\nITC Quay Sans : 1990 (David Quay) <em>how sans
    is that?</em>\r\nITC Officina : 1990 (Erik Spiekermann)\r\nFF Meta : 1991 (Erik
    Spiekermann)\r\nDTL Argo : 1992 (Gerard Unger)\t\r\nVia : 1999 (Bo Linnemann)\r\nFF
    Unit : 2003 (Erik Spiekermann/Christian Schwartz)\r\n\r\nBut unfortunately, I
    happen to have some left-overs:\r\nFrutiger : 1976 (Adrain Frutiger)\r\nFF Nuvo
    : 2008 (Siegfried R\xFCckel)\r\nFF Yoga Sans : 2009 (Xavier Dupr\xE9)\r\nTheSans
    : 1994 (Lucas de Groot)\r\nParisine : 1996 (Jean-Fran\xE7ois Porchez)\r\nParisine
    Office : 2005 (Jean-Fran\xE7ois Porchez)\r\nParisine Plus : 1999 (Jean-Fran\xE7ois
    Porchez)\r\nProductus : 2000 (Petr van Blokland)\r\nFresco Sans : 2001 (Fred Smeijers)\r\nSense
    : 2010 (Nick Shinn)\r\nSensibility : 2010 (Nick Shinn)\r\nAccording the \u2018proportion
    rule\u2019 they\u2019d fit in the \u2018oval\u2019 category, but when you compare
    them by their overall look-and-feel, most of them fit in the \u2018circle\u2019
    category. Another distinguisher would be to look at the construction. One could
    distinguish between an interrupted construction (such as in all Humanist Sans
    with \u2018circle\u2019 proportions as listed here) and a running construction
    (such as in Frutiger). For explanatory illustrations, have a look here:\r\nhttps://www.flickr.com/photos/albert-jan_pool/9209545848/in/set-72157629679838154\r\nand
    here:\r\nhttps://www.flickr.com/photos/albert-jan_pool/9131677869/\r\nbut this
    knife does not provide a clean cut either. Using both would do so, but it would
    also leave us with a large group of \u2018incorrect hybrids\u2019, which does
    not make sense when it comes to usability.\r\n\r\nI doubt wether \u2018ligatures\u2019
    or \u2018small caps\u2019 is suitable for distinguishing typefaces. Today, almost
    all non-display typefaces have these slots filled in some way or another. And
    even if they are not necessary or appropriate for the style, it is likely that
    some slot-filler will be doing this within the next few years in order to boost
    up the number of characters in a font. \r\n\r\nWhat I like about this discussion
    is that no one seems to be inclined to include high contrast sans serifs such
    as Optima and Pascal within this group (as suggested by the BS classification)."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Fournier
      picture: 126738
    body: "<blockquote>When one would like to split up Humanist Sans into sub-groups,
      the idea of distinguishing between classical/circle/old style and classicist/oval/modern
      proportions (as shown by Maxim) makes sense to me.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt's
      a good lead but the main purpose of a typeface is its function.\r\nSo you need
      to classify by use: text, display.\r\n\r\nFor instance, in the circle category,
      you find both display and text typefaces."
    children:
    - author:
        name: Albert Jan Pool
        picture: 111860
      body: "<blockquote>So you need to classify by use: text, display.\r\nFor instance,
        in the circle category, you find both display and text typefaces</blockquote>\r\n\r\nDistinguishing
        between text and display is probably something else again. That would lead
        to classifying ITC Bodoni SeventyTwo into another group that ITC Bodoni Six
        and Twelve. Not really a good idea I think. It also depends on which fonts
        you classify. If you\u2019d sort all sans serifs available at MyFonts according
        to the \u2018neo\u2019 rule I can imagine that there will be lots of fonts
        in that group which I would never use for text. I do not think that the \u2018Neo\u2019s\u2019
        are better, they\u2019re just different."
      created: '2014-05-27 11:30:21'
    created: '2014-05-26 16:30:21'
  created: '2014-05-26 09:35:50'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<blockquote><em>One could distinguish between an interrupted construction
    (such as in all Humanist Sans with \u2018circle\u2019 proportions as listed here)
    and a running construction (such as in Frutiger).</em></blockquote> Dear Albert-Jan,
    your illustrations posted on <a href=\"https://farm3.staticflickr.com/2845/9131677869_9c201f9ab0_o.jpg\">flickr.com</a>
    reminded me of my own slides I use to explain my students that there is more to
    the classifiable features than the stroke weight contrast, or the shape of serifs.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/O_4030.s.-Modern_Arches.jpg]"
  created: '2014-05-26 15:30:20'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "Dear Maxim, thanks for posting! In serif typefaces the angular and round
    counters usually behave more in line with old style/garalde and modern/didonic.\r\nWhen
    I did the typeface classification for the Scangraphic Digital Type Collection
    in 1990, I subdivided Garalde into Old Face and Old Style and subdivided Didonic
    into Modern Face and Modern Style. I used the \u2018Face\u2019 groups for the
    typefaces that closely followed the historical models and the \u2018Style\u2019
    groups for the more free interpretations. Thus I avoided to throw all newer and
    difficult-to-classify typefaces into the \u2018Variation\u2019 or \u2018Display\u2019
    box.\r\n\r\nThis resulted in:\r\n\r\n<strong>Old Face</strong>\r\nBembo, Garamond,
    Palatino, Sabon \u2026\r\n\r\n<strong>Old Style</strong>\r\nITC Esprit, ITC Slimbach,
    Swift, Vend\xF4me \u2026\r\n\r\n<strong>Modern Face</strong>\r\nBodoni, Basilia,
    Walbaum \u2026\r\n\r\n<strong>Modern Style</strong>\r\nBernhard Modern, ITC Century,
    Engravers, ITC Zapf International \u2026\r\n\r\nThinking this over, one could
    do the same for Humanist Sans Serif and Modern Sans Serif (Neo-Grotesque) today.
    But I would like to avoid \u2018Neo\u2019 in a set classification terms which
    also makes use of \u2018Modern\u2019. Or the other way round of course."
  created: '2014-05-26 16:17:13'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "If I follow the above statement, <strong>Neo-Humanist Sans</strong> is a
    <strong>Humanist Sans</strong> tamed with <strong>Neo-Grotesque</strong> properties.
    I took a look at the reference by Keith Tam and the author ended up his overview
    wit two classes:\r\n\r\n\u2022 Sanserif as a book type: 1960's-80's\r\n\u2022
    Neo-Humanist sanserifs: 1990's"
  created: '2014-05-26 17:23:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John Hudson\u2019s homage to Borges:\r\n\r\nAccording to \u2018a certain
    Chinese Encyclop\xE6dia,\u2019 <em>The Celestial Emporium of Benevolent Knowledge</em>,
    typefaces are divided into the following categories: \r\n\r\n1. those used to
    typeset the words of the Emperor, \r\n2. no longer available ones, \r\n3. those
    that are good for \u2018the small print\u2019, \r\n4. the ones you used last week,
    \r\n5. those that remind you of former lovers, \r\n6. fabulous ones, \r\n7. those
    in unknown formats, \r\n8. those included in the present classification, \r\n9.
    those you have forgotten, \r\n10. innumerable ones, \r\n11. those that are too
    light to be used for the present job, \r\n12. others, \r\n13. those in which the
    g \u2018just looks wrong\u2019, \r\n14. those that will be used to typeset this
    list. "
  created: '2014-05-26 20:06:31'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "I can't pretend to have the chops to improve on the discussion but I can
    say, like the kid who sometimes says at the end of _Southpark_ \"I learned something
    today_.\"\r\nI particularly liked the last comment by Nick Shinn, quoting John
    Hudson. I shall take it to heart.\r\nDon\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-26 21:35:03'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "<blockquote>If I follow the above statement, Neo-Humanist Sans is a Humanist
    Sans tamed with Neo-Grotesque properties</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes, that sounds
    like a good description. Reading your reasoning for distinguishing a \u2018tamed\u2019
    sub group, it sounds as if you think that the tamed ones are better than the others.
    I personally doubt wether this works out. I would not prefer to use ITC Officina,
    FF Nuvo or FF Unit for longer texts. Too my reading eye they\u2019re all a bit
    too quirky and heterogenous, they ask too much attention. In the other hand, there
    are also some typefaces in the \u2018original\u2019 group which I would not prefer
    either. Johnston\u2019s Underground and Gill sans are a bit too heavy and too
    blunt (the thins should be a bit thinner). I do not know how you would classify
    Frutiger; I like its forms and in signage it often works out fine, but the regular
    weight of the original Frutiger family is a bit too heavy for reading black text
    on white or slightly toned paper I think. Fine in very small sizes, but too black
    in regular and larger text sizes. Neue Frutiger book may perform a bit better
    in regular and larger text sizes. FF Nexus has an elegant look and feel because
    of its long ascenders and descenders. Still the stroke contrast is low, so everything
    within the x-height is still a bit too spotty for a long text. Also, the long
    ascenders and descenders need generous leading. Which is fine when lines are long,
    but a nuisance when they\u2019re short.\r\n\r\nWhat I think I have learned through
    the years is that too much uniformity/homogenity (be it letterforms, stroke weight,
    counter widths or counter forms) tends to lead to letterforms that are harder
    to distinguish from each other. Futura and Univers Condensed set a good example
    here. On the other hand, too much individuality/heterogenity easily leads to \u2018unrest\u2019
    caused by unusual letterforms and uneven grey values in words and lines. It can
    be seen in typefaces such as Gill Sans, Via, Rotis Sans etc. When designing for
    optimal legibility and readability in texts for longer reading, a balance between
    individuality and uniformity has to be found. Generally speaking, I think that
    the Grotesques (Transitional Sans as I\u2019d call them) such as News, Trade and
    Franklin Gothic suffer from having half heartedly defined stroke contrast, mediocre
    proportions and unclear counters. The diagonally cut stroke ends of a, s and e
    mess up the white forms. The German philosopher Anselm Feuerbach once stated \u2018Mediocrity
    is always the correct weight, except the scales are not true\u2019. I think this
    also goes for typefaces. Seen from that point of view, the Neo Humanist Sans as
    you define it has a high potential. But maybe most of designers who tried their
    luck in that area have been putting too much \u2018design\u2019 in their typefaces?
    I think that the linear character of sans serif typefaces asks for another approach.
    It suppresses heterogenity, but to enhance it, we should probably not replace
    it by introducing highly individualized letterforms, too much stroke contrast
    etc. Having seen the experiments that Ann Bessemans did for her research project
    is that of all modulations she applied to the sans serif typeface Frutiger in
    order to enhance their legibility for children with learning problems, the outcome
    was that most of these did not really work out. Changing the proportions of Frutiger
    was the only thing that showed a statistically significant improvement for beginning
    readers when it comes to comparing within the group of sans serifs. In this interview
    http://opentype.info/blog/2013/10/01/type-design-children/ she focuses on serif
    versus sans serif for obvious reasons, but the idea of studying spatial frequencies
    and rhythm within typefaces could also tell us something about designing legible
    sans serifs. I think that it should be considered to test some of the sans serif
    typefaces with classical proportions against those with grotesque (= \u2018mediocre\u2019)
    proportions. Or test proportionally varied versions of the same typeface to get
    clearer results. "
  created: '2014-05-27 11:28:04'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "<blockquote>Reading your reasoning for distinguishing a \u2018tamed\u2019
    sub group, it sounds as if you think that the tamed ones are better than the others.
    I personally doubt wether this works out. I would not prefer to use ITC Officina,
    FF Nuvo or FF Unit for longer texts. Too my reading eye they\u2019re all a bit
    too quirky and heterogenous, they ask too much attention. In the other hand, there
    are also some typefaces in the \u2018original\u2019 group which I would not prefer
    either. Johnston\u2019s Underground and Gill sans are a bit too heavy and too
    blunt (the thins should be a bit thinner).</blockquote>\r\n\r\n\xB6 I disagree.
    I find <em>FF Meta</em> to be good for reading. It's like a warm <em>Helvetica</em>.
    The Humanist Sans from the 1910's till the 1960's were just display style. This
    category per se is versatile and not that homogenous because you find a mix bag
    of showy leanings.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I do not know how you would classify Frutiger;
    I like its forms and in signage it often works out fine, but the regular weight
    of the original Frutiger family is a bit too heavy for reading black text on white
    or slightly toned paper I think. Fine in very small sizes, but too black in regular
    and larger text sizes. Neue Frutiger book may perform a bit better in regular
    and larger text sizes.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n\xB6 <em>Frutiger</em> is a Humanist
    Sans: in my book, it looks like a rounded <em>Univers</em> or a humanized <em>Univers</em>\u2014I
    am very fond of <em>Univers</em> because of its cinematic connotation. It's <em>Syntax</em>
    and <em>Polo</em> that start the 'neo' trend but they were oddities and almost
    the vanguard of things to come.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>What I think I have learned
    through the years is that too much uniformity/homogenity (be it letterforms, stroke
    weight, counter widths or counter forms) tends to lead to letterforms that are
    harder to distinguish from each other. Futura and Univers Condensed set a good
    example here. On the other hand, too much individuality/heterogenity easily leads
    to \u2018unrest\u2019 caused by unusual letterforms and uneven grey values in
    words and lines. It can be seen in typefaces such as Gill Sans, Via, Rotis Sans
    etc. When designing for optimal legibility and readability in texts for longer
    reading, a balance between individuality and uniformity has to be found.</blockquote>
    \r\n\r\n\xB6 I agree with you concerning these general rules.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Generally
    speaking, I think that the Grotesques (Transitional Sans as I\u2019d call them)
    such as News, Trade and Franklin Gothic suffer from having half heartedly defined
    stroke contrast, mediocre proportions and unclear counters. The diagonally cut
    stroke ends of a, s and e mess up the white forms.</blockquote> \r\n\r\n\xB6 I
    wouldn't be that harsh with those typefaces that work well as display, especially
    <em>Franklin Gothic</em>, the prototype of such category. I can cite many examples
    of use throughout the years that I admire. A company called Daystar Productions
    exploit that typeface with great results. It's a good workhorse on the whole."
  created: '2014-05-27 18:41:21'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "<blockquote>\xB6 The Humanist Sans from the 1910's till the 1960's were just
    display style.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes, but that is mainly because of the thins
    being too thick. Geometric Sans from that period wasn\u2019t much better either.
    The way you\u2019d like to define Humanist Sans would leave us with a group of
    typefaces that is too small to be useful in daily life. What other typefaces do
    you think that would fit in, next to Johnston Underground, Gill Sans and maybe
    Granby?\r\nLooking at my list of Humanist Sans again, I\u2019d include DTL Caspari
    : 1993 (Gerard Daniels), Bliss : 1996 (Jeremy Tankard), Foundry Sans : 2003 (David
    Quay, Freda Sack), FF Kievit : 2005 (Mike Abbink) FF Milo : 2006 (Mike Abbink)
    and Calluna Sans : 2010 (Jos Buivenga) now.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\xB6 Frutiger is
    a Humanist Sans</blockquote>\r\nAgreed. As I said, I am inclined to include most
    of my \u2018left-overs\u2019 into the Humanist Sans as well. But then I do not
    get why you label Today Sans Serif und TheSans as \u2018Neo\u2019. To me, these
    typefaces have much more in common with Gill Sans, Syntax and Frutiger than with
    ITC Officina, Via and FF Unit.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>\xB6 I wouldn't be that harsh
    with those typefaces that work well as display, especially Franklin Gothic, the
    prototype of such category.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI was thinking about reading text
    (like you seem to intend with \u2018neo-humanist\u2019), not about display quality."
  created: '2014-05-28 10:01:45'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "Find a list of heterogeneous <strong>Humanist Sans</strong> from the hot
    metal days.\r\nThere are all too stylized and with eclectic and contradictory
    biases.\r\n\r\n\u2022\tJohnston Underground : 1916 (Edward Johnston)\r\n\u2022\tGill
    Sans  : 1928 (Eric Gill)\r\n\u2022\tUhertype : 1933 (Jan Tschichold) (Tschichold's
    Gill Sans-esque)\r\n\u2022\tPeignot : 1937 (Cassandre) (naked Art Deco-oriented)\r\n\u2022\tLydian
    : 1938 (Warren Chappell) (calligraphic and Koch-oriented)\r\n\u2022\tOptima :
    1958 (Hermann Zapf) (incised latin-oriented)\r\n\u2022\tEras : 1961 (Albert Boton)
    (incised latin-oriented)\r\n\u2022\tAntique Olive : 1962 (Roger Excoffon) (the
    French answer to Helvetica/Univers and whose design is based on an olive!)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-28 12:57:54'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "<blockquote>\u2022\tPeignot : 1937 (Cassandre) (naked Art Deco-oriented)</blockquote>\r\ntoo
    much stroke contrast and too constructivist. I would not consider this kind of
    typefaces as typical for the Humanist Sans category. Especially when one wants
    to consider such a thing as Neo-Humanist as a (sub-)category, typefaces such as
    Peignot should become a slot of their own. \r\n<blockquote>\u2022\tLydian : 1938
    (Warren Chappell) (calligraphic and Koch-oriented)</blockquote>\r\ntoo much stroke
    contrast to be included in Humanist Sans. \r\n<blockquote>\u2022\tOptima : 1958
    (Hermann Zapf) (incised latin-oriented)</blockquote>\r\ntoo much stroke contrast
    to be included in Humanist Sans. By the time VOX and BS made up their classifications,
    there were hardly any typefaces like this, now there are enough to create something
    like Contrast Sans (suggestions, anyone?) \r\n<blockquote>\u2022\tEras : 1961
    (Albert Boton) (incised latin-oriented)</blockquote>\r\nAltough it relates more
    to Frutiger and TheSans and less to Gill Sans, I think that (ITC) Eras still is
    a very good example of the Humanist Sans. The \u2018a\u2019 is a bit idiosyncratic
    and the upper counter of \u2018e\u2019 is rather small, but in text sizes on the
    same x-height, it does not really perform different from Syntax I think.\r\n<blockquote>\u2022\tAntique
    Olive : 1962 (Roger Excoffon) (the French answer to Helvetica/Univers and whose
    design is based on an olive!)</blockquote>\r\nI would not consider Antique Olive
    as typical for the Humanist Sans category. When one wants to classify typefaces
    with a possibly small number of slots, I\u2019d include it in Humanist Sans (in
    real life I did so). Today I\u2019d rather label it in such a way that it may
    become clear that it is too exotic to belong to the core of Humanist Sans. \r\nA
    similar case would be typefaces like DTL Prokyon : 2000 (Erhardt Kaiser), FF Daxline
    : 2005 (Hans Reichel) or Karbon : 2009 (Kris Sowersby). They are more or less
    built on the Humanist kind of stroke contrast, forms and proportions, but they
    do not belong to what I consider to be the core. \r\n\r\nI like to test my considerations
    on which typeface should belong in what class with the question \u2018Could typeface
    X serve as a typographic alternative for typeface Y?\u2019 The point is that Antique
    Olive could serve as a typographic alternative to FF Balance and vice versa. But
    if I\u2019d take Syntax or Scala (all at the same x-height) I\u2019d probably
    have to review my decisions on the appropriate line feed. If I\u2019d switch to
    FF Meta or Helvetica, I\u2019d probably have to review my complete layout (even
    when the x-height is a constraint). Switching between Novel, DTL Documenta Sans
    and FF Kievit would probably only evoke minimal changes.\r\n\r\nI think Identifont
    does an great job in quickly providing similar alternatives. Although I was surprised
    that DTL Prokyon and Karbon do not pop up as a first alternative to FF Daxline."
  created: '2014-05-28 13:58:12'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "<blockquote>\u2022\tPeignot : 1937 (Cassandre) (naked Art Deco-oriented)</blockquote>\r\n\r\n\xB6
    This typeface is a Humanist Sans because of its contrast and width. At first glance,
    it can be seen as a Geometric Sans but it's not, really not. When you look at
    it closely, you find a reference to the late Didot style by Jules Didot. There's
    even a reference to the uncial calligraphy: see the small cap \"g\"."
  created: '2014-05-28 19:05:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Stefan, just wanted to say: you make the best-looking posts.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-29 17:47:32'
- author:
    name: Fournier
    picture: 126738
  body: "\xB6 Guess what I found at MyFonts.com: the latest Neo\xB7Humanist\xB7Sans
    \r\ncalled <em>P\xE9tala\xB7Pro</em> (2013).\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typefolio/petala-pro/\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/122259_6476.jpg]"
  created: '2014-05-29 20:26:04'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: Kievit of course!
  created: '2014-05-31 00:25:28'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Those days I use: \r\nMyriad (http://typophile.com/node/28658), 1992\r\nCore
    Humanist Sans (http://www.fontsbyalex.com), 2011"
  created: '2014-06-01 20:33:33'
date: '2014-05-22 11:33:21'
title: Your Neo Humanist Sans Selection?

---
