---
author:
  name: SuperUltraFabulous
  picture: 111522
body: "Hello guys et gals\u2014\r\n\r\nSo Neue Helvetica is the operating system font
  that replaces Lucida Grande. Let\u2019s hope the Apple Helvetica variant has glyph
  compatibility with Lucida Grande (similarly extended) and is properly hinted. \r\n\r\nOh
  and it would be really nice if Apple made some architectural improvements to the
  OS type engine too.\r\n\r\n\r\nDiscuss amongst yourselves, \r\n\r\nMikey :-)"
comments:
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: properly hinted?
  created: '2014-06-04 13:35:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Ideally one should be able to choose one\u2019s own OS font.\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-04 17:33:17'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Nick, except maybe for something like Windows Phone 8, using an arbitrary
    system font is potentially disruptive. Just like replacing a font in an accurately
    laid out document.
  created: '2014-06-04 18:59:36'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I know that in Windows, one certainly can choose a non-default font for things
    in the operating system. This was true as far back as Windows 3.1. So one could
    choose a different font for menus, for window bars, for button labels, for text
    boxes, and so on.
  created: '2014-06-04 19:37:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "You can change the system font in Windows 7 and 8, but it is pretty well
    hidden.\r\nhttp://www.wikihow.com/Change-the-Default-Font-on-Windows-7\r\n(the
    instructions apply to Windows 8 as well)"
  created: '2014-06-04 19:52:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This might be predictable coming from me, but that doesn't make it untrue:
    this is yet more evidence that Apple no longer cares about typography (and I claim
    hasn't since the viability of movin' pitcherz).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: grubstreet
      picture: 126081
    body: "<blockquote>Apple no longer cares about typography</blockquote>\r\nIn a
      sense, they do care. Apple seems to want to homogenise type with everything
      else and treat them like usual (meaningless) visual blocks. I think they have
      pursued visual conformity a bit too far; the obsessive use of Helvetica Neue
      Light on iOS 7 is already evident."
    created: '2014-06-07 20:03:43'
  - author:
      name: mick.jaeck
    body: "\"\u2026 that Apple no longer cares about typography \u2026\" for sure
      they don\u2019t care about typography in their iWorks programs. This is the
      third release of an OS by Apple where you cannot activate small caps and some
      other features of opentype fonts via the typo panel (cmd+t) in any iWorks program.
      I reported the bug different times to apple (including in the beta Yosemite
      version via feedback manager) but they just don\u2019t fix it or care about
      it."
    created: '2014-10-21 21:20:59'
  created: '2014-06-04 21:50:55'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I doubt if Apple would go for a changeable system font because they are moving
    towards a unified experience across all Apple devices (Mac, iPhone, iPad), and
    having different system fonts on different devices would be a step in the wrong
    direction to their thinking.\r\n\r\nAnd I doubt if it's very high on the list
    of user requests. If it was, it wouldn't be \"pretty well hidden\" on Windows
    as Thomas said."
  created: '2014-06-04 22:10:41'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "That was fast. And easy, it seems ;)\r\nhttps://github.com/jenskutilek/FiraSystemFontReplacement"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Proginoskes
    body: "It's not as easy as Jens's font-renaming. \r\n\r\nI found an interesting
      bug/side-effect: When you try to change something that requires you to enter
      your password, the font that is used in that window is \"garbage\"."
    created: '2014-10-19 02:20:48'
  created: '2014-06-07 18:55:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Yes, nice work by Jens. I am now trying to decide which typeface to use myself,
    as it is fairly wide open. Suggestions?\r\n\r\nObviously anything open source
    is fine. I have the whole Monotype library (courtesy TypeCon). Also a lot of Adobe
    stuff thanks to software bundles and actual licensing. I probably won't license
    something new for this purpose, but I'd be curious to hear about other suggestions
    anyway."
  created: '2014-06-08 03:22:37'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Maybe something like Scene?\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/mti/scene/"
  created: '2014-06-08 18:26:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I doubt if Apple would go for a changeable system font because they are
    moving towards a unified experience...\"\r\n\r\nThey tried that in OS8 JM, remember?
    and until  OS X there was no warning not to replace the system font(s), as there
    was last I looked. They've gone to great lengths to add optical sizes so lots
    of styles of UI fonts can appear thin at all sizes. So the \"system font\" (a
    family actually), might be called on for font files your replacement family doesn't
    have, and I wonder if it's as fairly wide open as any normally styled family may
    appear. \r\n\r\n\"Apple seems to want to homogenise type with everything else
    and treat them like usual (meaningless) visual blocks. \"\r\n\r\nNot so much meaningless,
    as attention-less. This is like the curtain and walls and ceiling and stage in
    the theater, before someone else, like a MS app e.g., takes it over for their
    own little show. And I still ain't heard a single suggestion in all the tumult,
    other than some typeface no one has ever seen in it's place. :)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-08 18:39:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>They've gone to great lengths to add optical sizes so lots of
    styles of UI fonts can appear thin at all sizes.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWonderful.
    The runway model model of UX design. The closer you get, the more unnatural it
    looks.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I still ain't heard a single suggestion</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYou
    haven't heard all those people pointing out the obvious? That poor cash-strapped
    Apple should pay for a custom font that is Actually Good. But it doesn't for a
    very good reason: Helvetica perfectly embodies its fashion-centric*, form-over-function
    philosophy that has in fact been there since day one. Evidence? The one-button
    mouse. Looks, not brains, is how Jobs sold it to consumerist peons.\r\n\r\n* http://www.zdnet.com/apple-hires-former-yves-saint-laurent-ceo-paul-deneve-wait-what-7000017612/\r\nhttp://www.nydailynews.com/news/national/apple-new-retail-boss-potential-67m-signing-bonus-article-1.1782518\r\n\r\nYou
    know what would be cool? If Apple commissioned Font Bureau for the work. Two birds
    with one stone!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-08 19:01:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I really  love my one button mouse ;-P
  created: '2014-06-08 20:21:10'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> They tried that in OS8 JM, remember?\r\n\r\nI remember OS 8, but it was
    released 17 years ago. All I'm saying is that they're working towards unified
    experience with Macs, iPads, and iPhones, so they behave like a unified system
    of devices. And having the capability for different system fonts on different
    devices would be a move in the wrong direction. \r\n\r\nTechnically possible,
    sure, but not desirable to their thinking."
  created: '2014-06-08 23:13:17'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The one-button mouse made sense in 1984, because PCs ran DOS, hardly anyone
    had used a mouse before, so with two buttons, they would have to be told which
    button to click to do something.\r\n\r\nOf course, making the left button bigger
    than the other two would have probably worked as well.\r\n\r\nInstead, I criticized
    the first Mac for not having cursor keys.\r\n\r\nI did sneer at the multicolored
    iMac, but hey, when you are trying to revive a company that was moribund and cash-strapped
    at the time, doing something that's easy and will work makes sense. The Macintosh
    brought the GUI out into the open, and it was a good idea, since that's how everyone
    uses computers now. Because Apple brought the Macintosh out before the hardware
    was ready to provide a GUI without compromising the ability of the computer to
    do real work... it was first, and controlled key patents. So I can't hold the
    limitations of 128 K of RAM and a 68000 processor against Steve Jobs.\r\n\r\nThat
    you couldn't open it up and upgrade to 512 K of RAM bought from Radio Shack, on
    the other hand, and scads of similar limitations in Apple products since then,
    I do hold against him. Monopoly pricing is not in the consumer's interest."
  created: '2014-06-09 03:05:08'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Steve Jobs certainly had his idiosyncrasies. Another one was not wanting
    the noise of a fan in his computers. I had an early iMac die after a few years
    and was told by the Apple repair guy that a circuit board had overheated, which
    he called a common iMac problem.\r\n\r\nBut as Steve said once, \"If you don't
    like it, don't buy it.\" There were always plenty of less expensive Windows computers
    available. \r\n\r\nBut I remember how depressed I was years ago when Steve was
    running Pixar and Next, and an Apple employee I knew told me that Apple was probably
    going to go bankrupt. In spite of all the idiosyncrasies, I really like Macs.\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-09 04:01:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "On mice buttons, really...? Mountains of evidence, point to one finger smart
    phonic touchscreen bops, as the user input of choice, and a one button mouse is
    the retroactive compromise to not having a touch screen. I'm not saying' nothin'
    else works for nobody, and I used 'em all \u2014\_just that the mounting evidence
    for the choices to be on the screen and not on the device, is rather overwhelming.
    That this form-over-function philosophy, has in fact been there since day one,
    is rather normal for the Mac. \r\n\r\nNow, if touchscreen-pokers want to tickle
    to some product manager's fondness for a two finger interface, just for input,
    never mind gesturing, I'd like to see it first, and then decide. Windows, would
    need such a thing to disrodentize it's OS, right? How's that coming along?\r\n\r\n\"But
    as Steve said once, \"If you don't like it, don't buy it.\" \"\r\n\r\nAnd privately,
    I'm sure he and others have known if you don't like it, and won't buy it, who
    cares why. And even if you don't like it and do buy it, we're no longer talking
    about even a week's pay. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-09 13:35:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The one-button mouse is simply a great day-one example. They've been slowly
    piling up since then, and in the last few years the relegation of functionality
    to the back burner has become quite blatant, not least in our favorite thing right
    here: typography.\r\n\r\nHumans can handle much more than Apple wants to give
    them. It's that people spend more when they know less.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-09 14:57:58'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Hrant, anyone who wants a multi-button mouse can use a 3rd party one or Apple's
    optional multi-button mouse.\r\n\r\nEarly personal computers were used mainly
    by people who liked technology (remember those all-text screens and cryptic error
    messages?). Jobs knew that one day computers would be used by everyone and he
    worked towards making the interface easier. \r\n\r\nBut an easier interface involves
    tradeoffs, and each user needs to pick the computer they feel best suits their
    needs.\r\n\r\nThe tremendous growth of tablets (which has caused a decline in
    PC sales) is an example of the public's desire for easy interfaces, especially
    for non-business use (email, websites, games, etc)."
  created: '2014-06-09 17:32:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The one-button mouse is simply a great day-one example. \"\r\n\r\nYou mean
    a silly example of unthought out and grossly general nonsense with no serious
    intellectual backup, I agree. \r\n\r\n\"They've been slowly piling up since then,
    and in the last few years the relegation of functionality to the back burner has
    become quite...\" \r\n\r\nWhomever has Whatever piling up Wherever, it's not affecting
    any user I've ever heard of.\r\n\r\n\"...not least in our favorite thing right
    here: typography.\"\r\n\r\nI think that too is a silly example. The Mac OS is
    the only OS with an OS-wide 'typography\" menu. \r\n\r\n\"Humans can handle much
    more than Apple wants to give them.\"\r\n\r\nI was unaware Apple was trying to
    give anyone anything.\r\n\r\n\"It's that people spend more when they know less.\"\r\n\r\nDo
    try harder. "
  created: '2014-06-09 18:34:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If Thomas can't make a dent in your polished-titanium extra-tight-fitting
    Apple-branded blinders on TypeClosets, I certainly can do nothing here.\r\n\r\nBut
    it still seems fun to point out these runway-model mouse prototypes:\r\nhttp://cdn1.vox-cdn.com/entry_photo_images/10180519/S111_verge_super_wide.jpg\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-09 18:56:42'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Forget prototypes, the Apple \"hockey puck\" mouse was standard issue for
    several years. It was terrible.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Apple_iMac_USB_mouse_5514.jpg]\r\n\r\nBut
    we could also point to goofs from other companies. Google \"Microsoft's Worst
    Mistakes\" (or substitute the name of your favorite PC company)."
  created: '2014-06-09 19:35:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "True, plus prototypes aren't really fair game \u2013 it was just too fun
    not to point out.\r\n\r\nBTW, my favorite mouse was this:\r\nhttp://www.auktions-vorlage.de/2.0/premupload/03/7111-829-NzguNTUuNTEuMjk=-1363536786.jpg\r\nIt
    doesn't look it, but it was super comfortable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-09 19:40:07'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I am willing to bet that within a year all of Apple\u2019s OS\u2019s will
    use a custom Apple font (with the metrics of the Yosemite-Helvetica Neue, of course).\r\n\r\nAny
    takers?"
  created: '2014-06-09 22:22:58'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: I tend to agree with Bert. But one wonders what took so long. Unless they're
    waiting for the other weights of Unica... ;)
  created: '2014-06-09 23:12:59'
- author:
    name: Jack Jennings
    picture: 126231
  body: "I'm tempted to just revert back to Lucida with Jens' trick, at least until
    I can upgrade to a high density display\u2026 Lucida looses some of it's charm
    at higher resolutions, though Helvetica is no great improvement.\r\n\r\nAll in
    all, very sad to see Lucida go\u2026"
  created: '2014-06-10 01:42:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I certainly can do nothing here.\"\r\n\r\nAgreed. ;p\r\n\r\n\"Any takers?\"\r\n\r\nI'll
    put up a unicode complete, bouma-enhanced, notanically versed, font family w/italic,
    all registered Latin features, an apache license and an eula that finds the foundry
    guilty of any and all malfontine behavior without monetary limit until the end
    of time. \r\n\r\nWhat is your stake?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-10 13:48:50'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "@Art - My licence of Typotheque\u2019s Brioni (my favourite tf of the last
    couple of years)."
  created: '2014-06-10 14:47:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"My licence of Typotheque\u2019s Brioni...\"\r\n\r\nAnd what else?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Helvmousica_4916.png]\r\nFor
    all those craving a comparison of the original Macintosh mouse and the original
    Helvetica bold a.\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-10 15:18:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Exactly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-10 15:38:19'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Have to take a look in the attic and make an inventory of my Apple antiques\u2026"
  created: '2014-06-10 16:47:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: The hockey puck mouse. I had repressed all my memories of that horror!
  created: '2014-06-11 20:02:07'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Yeah, it was a lousy mouse.\r\n\r\nJobs had returned to Apple \u2014 which
    was in deep financial trouble \u2014\_and the mouse was designed to coordinate
    with the first iMac, which Jobs wanted to be a futuristic, head-turning design.
    \r\n\r\nAnd the iMac did turn out to be a big success that helped save Apple.
    \r\n\r\nBut it was a crummy mouse.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/imac_6581.jpg]"
  created: '2014-06-12 00:29:45'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: Personally, I liked that mouse.
  created: '2014-06-12 07:36:37'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "It was such an iMac which I bought when I entered art school in 2000. The
    first thing I did was replace the mouse with a simple 2-button logitech thing.
    I don't think I ever really used the other mouse, especially because the round
    shape did not give a good feel in which direction it was pointing.\r\n\r\nBut
    then again, I can not understand people actually using the trackpad of their laptop,
    exept perhaps when they are travelling..."
  created: '2014-06-12 11:20:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The original iMac was very cool. But that mouse was stinky. I couldn't tell
    which way was up a lot of the time, and it was confusing to use.\r\n\r\nBack on
    original topic: Scene does look like a reasonable typeface for the purpose, although
    I would perhaps prefer a somewhat more open \u201Ce.\u201D"
  created: '2014-06-12 18:43:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Sorry, that was the second Mac mouse. The first one had a big huge button
    sticking way up in the air.\r\n\r\nMaybe people should merge there favorite glyphs
    from every font, and don't even stop at one language, grab your faves from each,
    \ and use that for their OS. "
  created: '2014-06-12 18:56:53'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "Monitor by OurType perhaps??\r\n\r\nhttps://ourtype.com/#/try/pro-fonts/monitor/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-06-12 19:07:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: I think Monitor might be an excellent choice for UI.
  created: '2014-06-13 00:51:19'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: 4 weights can be downloaded for free on their website (with registration)
  created: '2014-06-13 08:30:21'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: "There are some interesting quotes from this year\u2019s WWDC:\r\n\r\n[[http://asciiwwdc.com/2014/sessions/204|Session
    204: What\u2019s New in Cocoa]]\r\n<blockquote>It\u2019s [Helvetica Neue] been
    optimized for OS X with metrics similar to Lucida Grande.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n[[http://asciiwwdc.com/2014/sessions/102|Session
    102: Platforms State of the Union]]\r\n<blockquote>So, we hand-tweaked the metrics
    of the new system font so that they are very, very close to the metrics of the
    old Lucida Grande font, with a result that strings have almost the same size and
    usually fit in the space that you've allocated in your UI so far.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    most informative bit is found on [[http://asciiwwdc.com/2014/sessions/209|Session
    209: Adapting Your App to the New UI of OS X Yosemite]]. The segment comparing
    Lucida Grande and Helvetica Neue starts at 32:45. [[https://developer.apple.com/videos/wwdc/2014/?id=209|Download
    the video here]]."
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: Thanks, Bram!
    created: '2014-09-29 18:34:16'
  created: '2014-09-29 07:08:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Interesting indeed. Why come very close and not match?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-09-29 17:40:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\"Why come very close and not match?\"\r\n\r\nThe license agreement with
    B&H may prohibit licensees from producing clone fonts - or alternately there may
    be a Helvetica character or two that would look odd on Lucida's metrics.\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2014-09-29 19:27:29'
- author:
    name: effee
  body: With yosemite we are witnessing the decline of apple. everything that was
    good about mavericks has been changed and for the worse. i expect it will get
    worse still with the next os iteration. rip, apple.
  created: '2014-10-18 23:06:38'
- author:
    name: grubstreet
    picture: 126081
  body: "I think a wider adaptation of Retina screens is the reason Apple <em>dares</em>
    to use Helvetica. Surely they would have type experts in house who are decent
    enough to know that Helvetica isn\u2019t a good choice, but they still have gone
    with it. From my experience with the Retina Macbook Pro, Helvetica on this screen
    has been incredibly crisp \u2013 enough to avoid visual confusion.\r\n\r\nAnd
    of course I know that other typefaces would be as crisp. I\u2019m just saying
    that Retina may be the only reason they had the gut to use it."
  created: '2014-10-19 04:47:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't think it has anything to do with guts. And it might be telling that
    the two known type experts they employ have stopped showing up to type conferences
    in any official capacity. To have guts, first you need to care.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: grubstreet
      picture: 126081
    body: "If that is the case, Apple has made a huge, huge mishap. Retina screens
      do help, but only to a limited extent.\r\nBut considering that they have been
      seeking for a \u201Csenior type designer\u201D (from their recruitment site)
      and have released a custom typeface for Apple Watch, they might be still caring
      for typography...?\r\n\r\nP.S. I\u2019m wondering who those two experts are,
      if you are at the liberty to reveal."
    created: '2014-10-19 07:18:36'
  created: '2014-10-19 05:49:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter Lofting and Antonio Cavedoni.\r\n\r\nThat job posting is indeed a good
    sign, unless it's simply that one of the two guys above is leaving...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-19 15:57:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: I guess it's a cultural improvement if you want to rant at the living for
    while.
  children:
  - author:
      name: grubstreet
      picture: 126081
    body: "Seriously, there\u2019s nothing to rant about. This Helvetica maniac actually
      happened."
    created: '2014-10-22 03:46:25'
  created: '2014-10-21 11:22:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Regarding iWorks, it's clear to me that this was because they wanted document
    parity between the iOS and Mac versions. iOS has a less capable text rendering
    engine, so some stuff (like small caps) was dropped. When and if iOS gets support
    for such features, they will return to the Mac version. That's my guess, anyway.\r\n\r\nFWIW,
    default behaviors, like OT kerning, OT ligatures and OT contextual alternates
    all work perfectly on the latest iOS and Mac versions of iWork. In earlier versions
    on the Mac, this wasn't always true."
  children:
  - author:
      name: mick.jaeck
    body: "Thank you Mark. \r\nThen it is not so much a question of a bug but it\u2019s
      rather a deliberate choice \u2026 and then I can understand, why they don\u2019t
      fix it \u2026\r\n@JamesM: true. But I am an amateur and for my purposes Pages
      was good enough and user friendly \u2026"
    created: '2014-10-24 11:46:09'
  created: '2014-10-22 23:05:59'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Agree with Mark's comment about parity between iOS and the Mac.\r\n\r\nAnother
    factor might be that Pages was never intended to be a page layout program in the
    same league as InDesign. Pros aren't doing page layout in Pages, it's a user-friendly
    program for amateurs."
  created: '2014-10-23 04:21:59'
- author:
    name: mick.jaeck
  body: "I deinstalled Yosemite. \r\n\r\nDid you realize that fonts with high resolution
    like \"Mister K Informal\" from Fontshop cannot be properly generated within PDF
    files in Apple's iWorks programs? It is a general problem of the new operating
    system. Adobe Suite programs can still generate proper PDF files of high resolution
    fonts, but the Apple OS together with its iWorks programs cannot.\r\n\r\nHere
    an example:\r\n[[http://info-buddhism.com/PDF/heine.pdf]]\r\n\r\nThe question
    is if Apple is ever going to fix this or not \u2026"
  created: '2014-10-24 11:39:56'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<blockquote>Did you realize that fonts with high resolution like \"Mister
    K Informal\" from Fontshop cannot be properly generated within PDF files in Apple's
    iWorks programs? It is a general problem of the new operating system. </blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    saw this on the OpenType list yesterday. Apparently, Yosemite's built-in PDF generator
    assumes all OTF fonts have a UPM of 1000. Most do, but a lot don't. I expect they
    will fix this in the next update."
  created: '2014-10-24 15:08:48'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "A discussion of this problem at an Apple discussion board:\r\nhttps://discussions.apple.com/thread/6605691"
  created: '2014-10-24 17:16:36'
- author:
    name: Glider
  body: "I'm more sad that the font list in Yosemite saw no real extra love this year,
    at least in the Latin alphabet. A couple of display fonts and ITC Bodoni (yuk-it
    doesn't even have ligature substitution) was about it. Particularly sad since
    we got such a bonanza last time with DIN, Iowan Old Style and the other iBooks
    fonts. Oh well, I guess it's a bit much expecting Apple to buy extra fonts for
    me for a computer I've already paid them for. Not having true small caps support
    in Pages is a bit sad when TextEdit has it, though.\r\n\r\nFrankly, I'm not too
    bothered by Helvetica: it's less legible but it looks a bit more businesslike
    than Lucida, which always did look a bit a font designed to be legible above all
    costs. The [[https://github.com/jenskutilek/FiraSystemFontReplacement|Fira Sans
    replacement program]] is kinda fun though: it has a lot of character though I'd
    never dare run the risk of using it."
  created: '2015-01-18 00:02:02'
- author:
    name: Glider
  body: '[[http://fffff.at/yosemite-comic-sans-patch/|Related.]]'
  created: '2015-01-18 02:43:27'
date: '2014-06-04 10:23:44'
node_type: forum
title: "Mac OS X Yosemite\u2014 Helvetica as operating system font"

---
