---
author:
  name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
  picture: 110313
body: "Is this something good?\r\n\r\nhttp://fontfeed.com/archives/fontshop-joins-monotype-2/"
comments:
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: oh no
  created: '2014-07-15 14:46:34'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: 'Bleedin''ell. Are regulators allowing this? '
  created: '2014-07-15 14:49:47'
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: Surprising, to say the least.
  created: '2014-07-15 14:58:08'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: http://typophile.com/node/117974
  created: '2014-07-15 15:05:53'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: At least they were considered worth buying.
  created: '2014-07-15 15:41:41'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: The image I have of Monotype in the last 25 years or so is of the blandest
    type company, living of the royalties of a badly digitized library and bumping
    out remakes of their old bestseller now and then. FontShop on the other hand seemed
    like the most exciting company in the graphics world.
  created: '2014-07-15 16:07:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Sometimes when a person reaches retirement age, they get tired of the daily
    toil and just want to enjoy what life they have left.  If at that point, someone
    offers him a huge some of money, he may feel very tempted to take it and relieve
    himself of all burdens.
  created: '2014-07-15 16:08:12'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "For a user of type, it is very bad news. The \"new\" Monotype seems to just
    be in the business for the money. Without a further fee, FontFont allowed embedding
    of fonts in ebooks of various sorts, as long as the fonts were properly obfuscated.
    I imagine that will end under Monotype.\r\n\r\nIt doesn't affect me as a typesetter
    -- we don't pay those bills -- but I imagine even more of my customers will say
    \"Adobe only.\" It's already a trend in bookwork."
  created: '2014-07-15 16:57:37'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "However, Erik Spiekermann will be working for Monotype. So it doesn't look
    as though he's retiring.\r\n\r\nIf they just take the fonts, put them into their
    library under their usual license conditions, and basically make the Font Shop
    name disappear, that would be bad. But then, except for eliminating competition,
    they wouldn't get much value for their money.\r\n\r\nI thought the prefix FF on
    a font name sounded familiar, though, from a discussion I recently participated
    in. FontFont makes some of the most expensive fonts around. And since that didn't
    result in the company's immediate collapse to derisory laughter, that means they
    also made some of the most desirable and sought-after typefaces around.\r\n\r\nSo
    even the rights to the font collection <em>are</em> something of value to Monotype.\r\n\r\nIf
    they've been living off the royalties of famous typefaces from their past that
    they couldn't even afford to properly digitize... then, while they still had enough
    money to buy FontFont, it is now <em>obvious</em> why they did so. In order to
    survive into the future before people decide to just use Bitstream or other lookalikes
    and alternates to their classics.\r\n\r\nBut the rights to a static collection
    of the world's finest typefaces would just be a stopgap.\r\n\r\nInstead, their
    goal (and will they realize that goal - which would be good news - or will they
    fail horribly - which would be bad news) is presumably - since not all the FontFont
    typefaces are the work of a single font designer, after all - is to capture and
    continue the magic of FontShop, and to <strong>keep on</strong> producing new
    typefaces that will be among the most desirable and sought after.\r\n\r\nIn other
    words, except for the size of the bank balances involved, and thus the direction
    in which money changed hands, to have things end up as if FontShop bought Monotype
    instead of the other way around.\r\n\r\nIn that, I think type lovers should wish
    them good luck. Given the history of corporate acquisitions in general, they'll
    need it."
  created: '2014-07-15 17:18:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"However, Erik Spiekermann will be working for Monotype. So it doesn't look
    as though he's retiring.\"\r\n\r\nThis is just speculation but what does \"working
    for Monotype\" mean?  This may have just been a way to spread out his tax burden
    and spread out Monotype's upfront expenditure.  Perhaps Erik has minimal duties
    but collects a big salary as continuing payment for FontFont?  I don't really
    know but PR spin can be operating here."
  created: '2014-07-15 17:55:30'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Erik Spiekermann will \u2018work\u2019 for Monotype as a consultant, says
    the press release. \r\n\r\nOTOH: it is not clear from the information provided
    if the transfer of Spiekermann\u2019s IP (for his dozen or so FF-typefamilies)
    is included in the payment \u2014 that would make for a very favorable purchase
    by MT. \r\nI guess not, so how much has Erik got for that? Just wondering\u2026
    : )\r\n\r\nAnd then: if the press release is to be believed FSI etcetera had a
    turnaround of about 9 million USD with a (net?) profit of around 1.5 million.
    MT is paying (in installments, I guess) 13 million, eg about 9 times profit. Seems
    like a good deal for them."
  created: '2014-07-15 19:34:48'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Quadibloc:\r\n\r\nI don't believe you work in this industry. You just theorize,
    right? Usually I ignore your posts. (By the way, Monotype owns Bitstream... and
    Linotype... and a bunch of the others, and distribution channels. Go look it up
    before theorizing.)\r\n\r\nWhat Monotype gets with the FontFont library: when
    a font is used for an ebook, Monotype charges money *each damn time* a new book
    is issued using their fonts. Seem to remember it was $25, or something like that.
    But suppose it's only $15.00. \r\n\r\nSo you publish a book. You now owe Monotype
    \ $15 (or whatever) for the roman, $15 for the italic, etc. If you use a different
    display font, more money. Not a one-time fee. Nor did Monotype do any work for
    this money, they just bought the (font) software from someone else, and started
    charging differently. Sensible thing is to not use their software. That's where
    fears of monopoly come in. \r\n\r\nIt could easily get to be $150 for a single
    book, I've seen that. Now, that's just about the manufacturing cost of an ePUB,
    starting from a print edition. For the publisher, that means costs just doubled.
    And you're being squeezed by Amazon... The world will not be a better place if
    Amazon becomes the only publisher. (OK. I'll allow that's just my theory)\r\n\r\nI'm
    all for a BMI/ASCAAP use fee for fonts. But if you remember, that fee wasn't so
    high, and everybody (song writer, band, distributor, etc.) got a cut. Not just
    the fancy suit who bought the rights. \r\n\r\nA Monotype slick sales release:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The
    Monotype Imaging eBook Font License provides the necessary licensing rights to
    embed fonts into eBook products for commercial distribution. The license is designed
    to be easy to manage and cost-effective, with three options available: per unit,
    paid-up for each title, and an annual license fee. The per-unit option takes into
    consideration the early market nature of eBooks where publishers may not achieve
    significant revenues until this market ramps up.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nand from
    a frustrated user...\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Monotype Imaging (typography) who are
    the publishers of Bookman Old Style (which is the font I originally wanted to
    use), as well as Times New Roman, Arial and Courier and according to them, if
    I want to use their font in my ebook, I would have to purchase a license which
    costs $200 for each year that I sell or distribute (for free) my book to the public.
    Here is what their email said: \"The cost would be $200 per year. Although the
    font comes with your operating system, it wasn't licensed to be embedded in an
    ebook.\"</blockquote>"
  created: '2014-07-15 20:06:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"and everybody (song writer, band, distributor, etc.) got a cut. \"\r\n\r\nThe
    BMI model was notoriously unfair in the share it kept.  Only huge stars got better
    deals.  The Beatles were fed up with the whole mess and went out and founded Apple
    Records."
  created: '2014-07-15 20:15:51'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: Hey, I'm offering a model, not a roadmap. You're saying it's better if the
    font designer gets nothing? OK, no skin off my noise, I don't design fonts.
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: I am not saying "better if the type designer gets nothing."  I am saying,  who
      gets to decide how much each gets?
    created: '2014-07-15 20:35:44'
  created: '2014-07-15 20:29:13'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Sorry, enough with the snide remarks. What I personally would like to see
    is the independents band together and offer a license that would compete, more
    or less, with Adobe. They would leave Monotype for the highrollers who want to
    sell madam a good lay (Chris, you're probably old enough to remember Philip Wylie's
    <cite>Generation of Vipers</cite>). For a while, it looked like Village would
    do that. I even bought Merlo from both Village and Feliciano, to support both.\r\n\r\nMark
    my words, it should come to that. The book publishers need to buckle down and
    work together to beat off Amazon, as do the small type designers with their valuable
    works. If it doesn't come to that, it takes no genius to see where we'll end up.\r\n\r\nEdit:
    The license needs to be simple, and easy to use. I happen to be friends with the
    head of a publishing operation, which in the past year went \"Adobe only.\" When
    he was over for dinner one night, I asked him why he had directed the production
    department to do that. He replied that he hadn't. The only directive was to get
    & stay legal. It was the complexity of managing all the fonts & licenses that
    drove the production manager to say \"Adobe only.\"\r\n\r\nSo bear that in mind
    -- not only full Unicode compliance, but a common EULA that's easy to comply with.
    You may think they're buying your art; they think they're buying a tool."
  created: '2014-07-15 20:59:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I am well old enough to remember Wylie's book ;-)
  created: '2014-07-15 21:25:40'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spiekerman_4661.png]'
  children:
  - author:
      name: riccard0
      picture: 117627
    body: http://typophile.com/node/77045
    created: '2014-07-15 23:29:26'
  created: '2014-07-15 22:35:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>The book publishers need to buckle down and work together to beat off
    Amazon</cite>\r\n\r\nThey <em>tried</em> that, which led to an antitrust injunction
    against Apple that gave them the monopoly power they're now using against Hachette.\r\n\r\n<cite>By
    the way, Monotype owns Bitstream... and Linotype...</cite>\r\n\r\nI knew they
    owned Linotype. They don't own the American Monotype that is instead owned by
    a small independent, and apparently they don't own Adobe yet.\r\n\r\nI definitely
    did not know about Bitstream - I suppose that's <em>why</em> Bitstream is now
    reformed and responsible, and won't devalue fonts by deals like that with Corel
    any longer.\r\n\r\nAs for the frustrated user... clearly only one solution is
    left. Google Web Fonts.\r\n\r\nSadly, the creators of typefaces - like the creators
    of music - are the <em>first</em> casualties of a war between middlemen who want
    to make the creative product unaffordable without much of the profits going to
    the creators... and the consumers of the creative product.\r\n\r\nGiven what had
    been written in this thread about Monotype, it seemed that it was Monotype that
    was old and tired, not Erik Spiekermann, and thus I characterized their purchase
    of FontFont as being about survival for them. Their purchase of Linotype had just
    been a natural merging of twins - both halves of Times Roman - and Bitstream,
    with its cheap imitations, was a threatening competitor to get rid of.\r\n\r\nIf
    Monotype reinvents itself, and makes very good typefaces, which is just what the
    purchase of FontFont might lead to, then it's hard for me to criticize it for
    charging high prices for them. As for the awkwardness of embedding fonts in digital
    documents... it is frustrating, but I blame that more on the lack of good DRM
    and the presence of piracy - it's done out of <em>fear</em>, not greed."
  created: '2014-07-15 23:07:41'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>I blame that more on the lack of good DRM and the presence of
    piracy - it's done out of fear, not greed.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI suspect we don't
    agree on anything. I'm not much interested in fuel for arguments, which is what
    passes for discussion when both have already made up their minds."
  created: '2014-07-15 23:42:44'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>I blame that more on the lack of good DRM and the presence of
    piracy - it's done out of fear, not greed.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat doesn't seem
    likely to me."
  created: '2014-07-16 00:53:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>a common EULA that's easy to comply with</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    can certainly appreciate how that would help attract buyers with insufficient
    patience/desire to read and consider a EULA, but there's something lost in such
    homogeneity.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-16 03:25:29'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>I can certainly appreciate how that would help attract buyers
    with insufficient patience/desire to read and consider a EULA, but there's something
    lost in such homogeneity.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhat's your model here? You're trying
    to sell a product, but you want to make it harder on the buyer? You think buyers
    are queuing up, mouths open in awe, just to have someones fonts? \r\n\r\nThat's
    another misunderstanding -- you think you're selling art, but that's not what
    they're buying, be it art or no. Where do you think \"Adobe only\" comes from?
    It's not because Adobe has the world's best fonts, it's because they make it easy
    to get on with things.\r\n\r\nYour choice, of course."
  created: '2014-07-16 04:43:40'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: 'My guess is that the vast majority of purchasers never read a EULA at all,
    just as they don''t read software terms & conditions when they buy or update an
    app. Exceptions might be 1) there''s a prominent warning of restrictions on the
    purchase page, or 2) it''s purchased by a company that has someone in charge of
    such things. '
  created: '2014-07-16 04:51:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't want to make it harder on the buyer, but I think it's fair to say
    that the smaller the foundry the more a EULA can vary. Because we're humans too,
    and we want different things out of life, not just more money.\r\n\r\n\"Adobe
    Only\" comes from a combination of Adobe's worthiness (for one thing I like their
    avoidance of the no-mod clause too) but also a \"Whatever!\" attitude among some
    customers, who don't see the rich expressive variance of fonts and/or are too
    lazy to read EULAs. I for one am not going to give up too much, because of two
    old maxims: you can't please everybody; and you can't buy happiness. I'm not a
    prostitute.\r\n\r\nBTW some type designers do think of themselves too much as
    artists, but I'm not even remotely one of them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-16 04:54:59'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Note that it's the expense of getting permission to embed fonts in things
    like PDFs or on web sites that I was blaming on fear. The \"no mod clause\" is
    inexplicable and indefensible, I don't deny that.\r\n\r\nAnd I can understand
    now why Monotype Imaging is basically seen as the \"dark side\" of the font industry.
    That's sad, given their rich history, but given the existence of Adobe <em>and</em>
    all the freeware fonts out there, I don't think that they will be able to go on
    like that forever.\r\n\r\nAh... speaking of non-type companies that sell type,
    ColArt International Holdings, which owns Reeves and Winsor and Newton, also owns
    Letraset. ... oh, no; Letraset sells Fontek fonts, and those are part of the Linotype
    library that Monotype owns, so that's one less competitor."
  created: '2014-07-16 05:27:04'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I think you don't understand where 'Adobe only' decisions come from. They
    come from management, not (interior) designers. In case you hadn't noticed, book
    designers steal fonts. It's sort of OK in their view, after all, they're not actually
    setting the book, it's the <cite>typesetter</cite> that has to buy the font. (No,
    it's not OK in my view, but it surely happens.) \r\n\r\nRemember, it is perfectly
    possible to design a book without having any fonts at all. How it was done all
    through the 20th century. They were called layouts, and they were done with a
    pencil. What shows to the world is the printed product, so if the <cite>designer</cite>
    doesn't own the font, it doesn't really show.\r\n\r\nOK, time moves on, and some
    presses begin to set their own books in house. Now they must own the fonts, to
    stay legal. And the digital market opens up, which means the publisher may need
    a legal copy of a font, because the typesetter preparing the print edition isn't
    going to have a license for a digital edition, should such a license be needed.
    All this shows, you can't hide behind the typesetter.\r\n\r\nNow look at what
    everyone on typophile -- me too -- says when people ask questions about EULA's.
    We start with \"I'm not a lawyer, but...\" So, as times change and management
    begins to pay attention to licensing, you think they want to hire a lawyer each
    time some silly designer wants to use a new font? (if so, I've got some nice property
    in Arizona that might be beachfront property, just as soon as the big one drops
    California into the ocean. I'll give you a great deal on it.)\r\n\r\nAdobe has
    taken the time to make a EULA that doesn't need a lawyer. Their FAQ's map out,
    in plain terms, what they expect and what they allow. The EULA is also favorable
    to the user, but as big an issue, I think, is the clarity of it all.\r\n\r\nStrange
    as it may seem, I've occasionally had publishers question fonts I've selected
    in a design which are SIL open source fonts. They don't know what that means,
    at the management level. You have to reassure them, remembering (1) they don't
    want to hire a lawyer, and (2) they want to stay legal, and (3) they don't want
    to waste time on such matters.\r\n\r\nSo, suppose there was a standard EULA the
    smaller font publishers prepared and used in concert, which was as clear as the
    Adobe one. It would help if it was as permissive, esp. in the digital use arena.
    But if you wanted an extra $20 for digital license that was bought once only,
    I doubt that would kill the deal.\r\n\r\nNow do I think that will happen? No,
    I think the smaller font publishers will continue to draft their own long, long
    EULAs, and continue to struggle, and wonder why.\r\n\r\nOne last point: typefaces
    don't sell books. You <cite>might</cite> make an argument they sell authors, and
    publishers are interested in happy authors. At least, when an author sells well.
    But it's a stretch.\r\n\r\nApparently, what sells books, even academic books,
    is the cover.\r\n\r\nHow do I know? We just finished a small job for a publisher
    who was doing a \"strip and rebind.\" Never heard of that, but it sounded kinda
    kinky, so I asked. That's where you take a hardcover book, strip off the cover,
    rebind as a paperback, then sell it at the paperback price. \"Why,\" I said? Why
    not just offer the case-bound edition at a paperback price and save yourself the
    cost of all this? Apparently, that doesn't sell as well. The reading public --
    buyers, don't you know -- really want the paperback cover. Also, apparently people
    who buy a paperback seems to think they're getting a better deal. Makes no sense
    to me, but they've got the data to back it up."
  created: '2014-07-16 05:41:15'
- author:
    name: Albert Jan Pool
    picture: 111860
  body: "So sad to hear that Polytype has just become history \u2026\r\nhttps://www.flickr.com/photos/albert-jan_pool/14664543601/"
  created: '2014-07-16 10:21:03'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>I think you don't understand where 'Adobe only' decisions come
    from. They come from management, not (interior) designers.</blockquote>\r\nYou
    might speak from experience but I highly suspect this is a generalization. There
    are plenty of designers who are either too lazy to look further or stay with Adobe
    because they offer a nice service and likely everything the designer in question
    thinks he needs. Your statement will very likely be true when talking about big
    companies, but I think you're ignoring a large part of the design industry.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>In
    case you hadn't noticed, book designers steal fonts. It's sort of OK in their
    view, after all, they're not actually setting the book, it's the typesetter that
    has to buy the font.</blockquote>\r\nI have to admit I'm not a book designer,
    but I have worked for several design studios and agencies and I've never heard
    of this practice. The companies I worked at may get fonts illegally to test them,
    but the typeface is then proposed to the client, who will decide whether to buy
    the license or have us look for cheaper alternatives. The costs go to the client,
    not the designer or typesetter (if you have to make a distinction at all).\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you mean with book designer and typesetter though? Aren't they the same these
    days? I mean, in this context I don't suspect this book designer only designed
    the cover but designed the interior as well. What then is the typesetter's job?
    And if I am a typesetter, why would I be buying licenses for the designer?\r\n\r\n<blockquote>OK,
    time moves on, and some presses begin to set their own books in house.</blockquote>\r\nOkay,
    so you were talking of the old days. In the first paragraph you were strongly
    implying this is a contemporary practice.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The reading public
    -- buyers, don't you know -- really want the paperback cover.</blockquote>\r\nThat
    seems really strange to me. I really don't like paperbacks. I sometimes go for
    paperback if it's a lot cheaper, but if the price is right I will take the hardcover.
    Couldn't there be a different reason for why people may prefer paperback in the
    context you describe?\r\n\r\nI'm not necessarily disagreeing with the statements
    you made here as I lack experience in the industry to say much about management,
    contracts and all that, but I'm trying to understand. Your story doesn't seem
    entirely consistent or complete."
  created: '2014-07-16 15:19:49'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Hardcover vs paperback is simple economics. Hardcover is more expensive \u2014
    a tad too for a lot of people, who wait for the paperback to be published (used
    to be the hardcover was published first and a paperback version months later;
    a practice that has all but disappeared now \u2014 economics once again, viz Martin\u2019s
    statement).\r\n\r\nFor the publisher it makes sense to use unsold hardcovers to
    rebind as paperback (and even for a new paperback edition the printing plates
    of the hardcover would be used). \r\nBonus: A rebound hardcover/paperback is far
    more solid than a normal paperback \u2014 that is usually held together with glue,
    although the practice of just glueing hardbacks instead of binding is spreading
    (are people that stupid? yes, they are.)."
  created: '2014-07-16 19:33:31'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I understand it's a matter of economics. What I don't understand however
    is that people wouldn't buy hardcover books if they're being offered at a paperback
    price. I guess people suppose that whatever the price of the hardcover is, the
    softcover will be cheaper. If I find a hardcover book at a good price I will certainly
    buy the hardcover book.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of which, I guess this is off-topic but
    some years ago I bought a special edition hardcover book for 120 euro which is
    now worth up to 1500 euro. If I had known I obviously would have bought a second
    copy. I suspect the more focus there will be on paperback books, the more the
    hardcover books will be looked for. Not by most of course, but the binding is
    what makes a book special. If I don't have the money I will get a paperback just
    to get access to the information within the book, but it's not something to be
    particularly proud of. When I'm done with school and I officially launch my career
    I think I will tend to buy hardcover only. People say books are going to disappear,
    but I don't think the luxury ones will. It might be that paperback is slowly being
    translated to the digital world, but even that I don't believe. In all likeliness
    the digital world just added another level to the hierarchy, underneath paperback.\r\n\r\nDo
    you think hardcover books are going to disappear or do you think the book industry
    has it so hard because another level has been added to the hierarchy? It could
    very well be that hardcover books are going to be for the rich, as the cost of
    producing one will probably increase as the market for it becomes smaller. and
    smaller."
  created: '2014-07-16 22:33:16'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I'm sure printed books will be sold for many years, but here's a graph showing
    the rise of eBooks and decline of printed books. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sales-trends_6703.jpg]"
  created: '2014-07-16 22:43:15'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<blockquote>What do you mean with book designer and typesetter though? Aren't
    they the same these days?</blockquote>\r\n\r\n???? \r\nDo you work in this industry?
    I do. As a typesetter. \r\n"
  created: '2014-07-16 22:55:33'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Charles, I'm starting to get annoyed by your responses. Just about every
    comment I've read from you contains at least a subtle insult. As I said, I don't
    necessarily disagree with you and I already mentioned I DON'T work in that industry
    and I want to know more. I asked you to elaborate. You haven't actually answered
    my questions.\r\n\r\nJames, that graph is interesting and it looks worrying on
    some level, but I have the feeling since eBooks are a new medium it takes a bit
    before it will stagnate. Once it does, perhaps books will have a come-back. I'm
    already getting tired of eBooks. Probably the rest of the world doesn't quite
    have enough of it yet, but it seems there are already trends of strong nostalgia
    for labor-intense methods of producing since mass produced products and digital
    products are often seen as dull and uninspiring."
  created: '2014-07-16 23:19:59'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Martin Silvertant:\r\n\r\nYour questions seem to me to be put in the form
    of challenges. Not something I'm inclined to respond to. Secondly, when they are
    questions, it would take a book-length chapters to answer. Or so it seems to me,
    and an internet forum is a poor place to try give those kinds of replies."
  created: '2014-07-16 23:55:30'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Martin, I like books too and used to work in a library, but as young folks
    grow up who are used to doing their reading on computers and tablets, the trend
    will continue. But even in the future when virtually all publishing is electronic,
    I'm sure some printed books will still be available from specialty publishers,
    small presses, etc.
  created: '2014-07-17 00:32:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Charles is annoying because he considers Typophile enemy territory.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-17 01:12:05'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Charles, my questions are not challenges. Some arguments I deduce from logic,
    some are speculative and some are based on experience. I explained my experiences
    and in my experiences there is no distinction these days between a book designer
    and a typesetter. I never implied I'm always right, so when I'm not I do expect
    any of you guys to correct me and to inform me on the matter, rather than a response
    like \"Do you work in this industry? No, so shut your trap\". Your response just
    wasn't constructive at all. If you can only insult, don't comment. I noticed in
    older threads as well that you tend to be quite negative and I've seen you subtly
    insult people without any reason for it.\r\n\r\nAlso, how is an internet forum
    not the perfect place to discuss this? You're writing pages already. Just look
    at what you wrote on this post alone. Even a few short but sweet answers would
    have been much better than your response.\r\n\r\nThe one question I would really
    love to get an answer to doesn't require a long response at all. I don't mean
    to undermine your profession, but what does a typesetter do these days and how
    is this distinct from what a designer does? I'm of the opinion it's probably better
    to specialize in something rather than becoming a jack of all trades, master of
    none but in practice the graphic design profession is getting broader and broader.
    As such it's my understanding that a contemporary book designer is also a typographer
    (unless you're talking about the designer of the cover, but you implied the former).
    So with that in mind and with the experience I've had working at several design
    companies (including one run by one of Gerrit Noordzij's students) and never having
    stumbled upon a typesetter, I think it's a fair question.\r\n\r\nLook, I'm not
    angry and I don't require an apology. Just try to be more constructive."
  created: '2014-07-17 01:27:39'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "No, Hrant is known to look for my posts in order to try and annoy me. \r\n\r\nThe
    \"enemy,\" when there is one, are people who consider the type an end in itself,
    any further work with it is incidental. For example, when I get in a book to design
    and set, the things that go through my mind are never mentioned on typophile.
    But they are not trivial, given that a product has to result.\r\n\r\nFirst thing
    I want to know is who marketing is aiming the sale of the book at. Is it simply,
    say, a social scientist in that role only, or are they planning to broaden the
    advertising to include, say, historians? And if they're going to aim at both,
    likely we're getting toward a general audience. That will affect type choice.\r\n\r\nThen,
    I want to know production details. How many copies? Very short run, which I tend
    not to deal with, is 500 copies or under. That will invariably mean \"digital\"
    press (xerography). Short run is between, say, 750 and 5,000 copies. That will
    be an offset press, probably sheet-fed, but maybe web. Over 5,000 will be different
    kinds of printers; you can assume they'll have the capability to do whatever you
    want/need.\r\n\r\nWhy? Ah. Let's say 2,000 copies. Will it be split production
    (some cloth, some paper)? How many of each? if 250 cloth and 1,750 paper, you
    might be tempted to make compromises that won't hurt the paperback quite so much.
    If it's 1,000 - 1,000, the guys putting out the money for the cloth might be considered
    to deserve more attention. Certainly there will be numerically more of them. And
    just BTW, typical short-run web presses can handle only up to 6 x 9 trim, but
    most sheet-fed presses can go 6-1/8 by 9-1/4 trim. 5.5 by 8.5 has different issues,
    as do the smaller trims. All this will affect the margins, which will affect the
    measure.\r\n\r\nBut:\r\n\r\nShort-run printers in the states don't all have smythe-sewing
    capabilities. And the publisher probably hasn't picked the printer yet, so I have
    to assume a notch-bound cloth edition, which won't open quite as well as smythe-sewn.
    (One 21st century change is no publisher wants to take the extra time to have
    a printer send the book to a separate binder. They use to, no more.) Binding choices
    strongly affect the gutter margin. Moreover, if the paperback is to be perfect
    bound, 1/8-inch is chewed off the inside to break the folded signatures & open
    the paper for the glue. But if we're lucky, the paper will also be notch-bound.
    In any case, I need to know all this to do my job.\r\n\r\nWe're talking about
    up to a full pica difference in the needed gutter margin here, which affects the
    measure. Moreover, the publisher is just as apt to give a page count they require
    the book to make. Already in the \"metadata.\" And maybe some geek has assured
    them that, from the character count in the MS Word file, \"any good designer\"
    can predict book length to within 8 pages. But the geek never did that, just read
    about \"castoffs,\" though never did one. I have, it takes two days with paper
    manuscripts and a pencil. I can set a book faster than that. See below. \r\n\r\nIt's
    easier if there are no subheads, extracts, etc. White space eats up \"character
    count\" like crazy. And the notes, even though one or two points smaller with
    one or two points less leading, have a short paragraph length, so there are a
    lot more paragraphs per page. More paragraphs equals more white space -- assume
    each paragraph ends with half a line, on average. So, even though the note size
    & measure & leading might accommodate a 3200 character page, you'll likely get
    2,800. Or less, depending on whether or not there are extracts in the notes. Or
    if the notes are substantial discussions of a subsidiary issue, rather than citation
    data only. The same thinking for bibliography, appendices, anything that isn't
    to be considered as straight text.\r\n\r\nAt this point, I've one, two, or three
    typefaces in mind. Most typefaces work best within a limited range of setting
    size, given the one-size-fits all masters from photocomp on. So I'll flow in all
    the text & rough-style it, to see how many pages were getting, and what compromises
    each typeface & setting size will bring.\r\n\r\nEtc. Etc. Etc.\r\n\r\nWelcome
    to bookwork -- or to bookwork that isn't coffee-table books, museum catalogs,
    etc."
  created: '2014-07-17 02:27:02'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Martin Silvertant\r\n\r\nI never answered your question about the difference
    between a typesetter (compositor) and designer. To me, it is a level of detail.
    The things a designer are best at are at a different level than the things a compositor
    is best at.\r\n\r\nComposition is all about making compromises. Set a line looser,
    or hyphenate. Well, how bad is that hyphen point, not to a typographer, who's
    looking at black ribbons on a white background, but to someone reading the text.
    Do you allow \"strengthen\" to be hypheated (I don't, many designers would shudder
    with the loose line that results by taking \"strength\" down.) Do you make a line
    to banish a widow? Type gets looser. Or do you run the page short? What happens
    with those decision three pages later?\r\n\r\nWill the *designer* letterspace
    small caps depending on how many words are involved? Set the text \"Futon's Folly\"
    in small caps, as in a subhead. Now set \"She'll be coming 'round the mountain
    when she comes\" just the same. You'll need different letterspacing and word spacing
    to make the two look good. Will a designer take the time? Not in my experience.
    But it could be just the opposite... a matter of temperament, I suppose. There
    is always an element of *tradesman* in typesetting, almost never in design. Tradesmen
    will take the time. And the aforementioned element of willingness to make compromises,
    and not agonize over them.\r\n\r\nLook, I've written a chapter in Rich Hendel's
    new book, <cite>Aspects of Contemporary Book Design</cite>. Make your library
    buy a copy & read that, then get back to me. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.uiowapress.org/books/2013-spring/aspects-contemporary-book-design.htm\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-17 02:46:10'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I don't think it was ever stated that the claim that a lot of companies which
    produce printed matter have 'Adobe only' policies, due to the difficulty or expense
    of complying with the terms of Monotype's licenses was anything <em>but</em> a
    generalization. Of course some publishers will prioritize using the exact typeface
    that meets their needs, and willingly pay whatever fees are required to be legal.\r\n\r\nI
    am no typesetter. What dismays me, though, is that desktop publishing programs
    these days are apparently worse tools for producing simple books and pamphlets
    than Microsoft Word - which is not a good tool for that purpose either.\r\n\r\nFrom
    the Michigan Terminal System, I'm used to FMT and Textform. Of course, no one
    will have heard of them, but basically they are tools like troff - except they
    were all-in-one programs, rather than following the Unix philosophy of using multiple
    small programs.\r\n\r\nOne has a plain text file containing body copy plus markup
    entered by hand. Edit the text document, and then run the program to print it
    out, in proportional spacing, flowed according to your instructions. And with
    styles - you could even have an introduction to each new chapter that was in single-column
    format while the rest of the book was double-column.\r\n\r\nIt <em>didn't</em>
    include some of the unique and fancy features of TeX.\r\n\r\nFor the modern age,
    a program like that which would put its output into a WYSWIG desktop publishing
    program, rather than just directly printing it, so as to allow for fine touch-up
    such as changing letterspacing where required, would be needed. And it would necessarily
    have to handle UNICODE instead of just 8-bit characters.\r\n\r\nI'm surprised
    market demand hasn't led to such a program."
  created: '2014-07-17 03:00:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Charles, don't amplify your significance. Certainly not to me, not to Typophile,
    and even not to typography in general. I don't go looking for your posts to counter;
    you simply offer a lot to counter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-17 03:26:32'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Charles, in general I agree with your comments about designers/typesetters.
    Things that designers used to farm out \u2014\_typesetting, scanning, trapping,
    etc \u2014\_today are often done by the designer himself. \r\n\r\nSome designers
    get pretty good at those things, but someone who specializes in those things and
    does them 8 hours a day will usually do them much better.\r\n\r\n> Tradesmen will
    take the time\r\n\r\nOne of the advantages of being a specialist. Many designers
    (especially freelancers) find that much of their time is taken up with meetings,
    phone calls, emails, scheduling, billing, etc., and setting type in InDesign is
    done in a hurry."
  created: '2014-07-17 03:28:27'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Hmmm. Seems I'm not alone. Or is this someone else?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ratemyteachers.com/hrant-papazian/1947186-t"
  created: '2014-07-17 04:02:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, I refuse to stoop to your level.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-17 04:16:47'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Although I wasn't old enough to remember Generation of Vipers first coming
    out, later on I bought and read a second-hand copy; it said a lot of interesting
    things about the fifties.\r\n\r\nI am, however, rather surprised at using the
    comments of disgruntled students as part of a debating tactic. Without context,
    that proves little. There will be first-year students, at least, who will condemn
    a professor for expecting them to actually work in class... as an example.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, I do realize that Hrant <em>is</em> a man of strong opinions. That, in
    itself, is likely to lead him to disagreeing with other people's opinions without
    having to engage in cyberstalking."
  created: '2014-07-17 04:23:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I wouldn\u2019t put too much credence in teacher rating websites.\r\nWhen
    I was teaching, I found I could generally \uFB01gure out which students had made
    which remark, especially those who had made derogatory comments, and they tended
    to be the worst students: not very bright, lazy and easily distracted.  "
  created: '2014-07-17 04:25:58'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Oh, I don't know. I've taught too. Students do have an instinct about who's
    trying to help them. Papazian does seem to hunt people down just to attack them.
    Example: guy wants to do some text books, asks for help.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/116507\r\n\r\nPapazian
    chimes in. If you take his post as his thinking on the matter, essentially he
    \ recommends the OP should just not set his textbooks, as there are no good fonts.\r\n\r\nMore
    realistically, he gets in an attack. But doesn't help the guy. One wonders why.
    He *could* have done both, but chose only to attack. I can go through typophile
    and find many, many similar examples. Not worth the trouble."
  created: '2014-07-17 05:05:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Yes, I suppose he could at <em>least</em> have mentioned that most mathematical
    characters are available for Times Roman, if one wants to use a half-decent typeface
    instead of Computer Modern... one would just have to use a different tool for
    mathematical formulas. Microsoft Word has one.\r\n\r\nOr he could have mentioned
    AMS Euler - I wouldn't go that far out on a limb if I was setting a math textbook,
    but at least it's a 'good' typeface, being designed by the Real! Typographer!
    Hermann Zapf.\r\n\r\n(This isn't intended to be disparaging of Hermann Zapf, by
    the way, whose talents and significance I acknowledge. But concern about type
    quality does occasionally shade into type snobbery, for which I have little sympathy.)\r\n\r\nHowever,
    <em>that</em> kind of helpful advice is of such a trite and obvious kind that
    I would not be surprised if he felt that he wasn't going to delay matters much
    by forbearing to supply it. There may not be, as far as I know, any <em>really</em>
    respectable typefaces with a near-comprehensive selection of mathematical characters
    too, so indeed he might not have had any helpful advice he was not embarrassed
    to give.\r\n\r\nExcept he did warn the fellow to take the typographical advice
    of the TeX community with a grain of salt. That actually was genuinely informative
    and helpful advice, even if it was negative rather than positive."
  created: '2014-07-17 10:25:16'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: This thread has gone totally off-topic.
  created: '2014-07-17 13:16:38'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: As if the original topic wasn't bad enough already...
  created: '2014-07-17 13:40:56'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>Will a designer take the time? Not in my experience.</blockquote>\r\nA
    designer will generally lack your insight, but as far as I'm concerned a designer
    should care about these things.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>There is always an element
    of *tradesman* in typesetting, almost never in design. Tradesmen will take the
    time. And the aforementioned element of willingness to make compromises, and not
    agonize over them.</blockquote>\r\nWell, a designer's job is a lot broader and
    so he wouldn't have the time. You really enlightened me about what a typesetter
    does, but I don't like the implication of designers not taking their time. I suspect
    you will be aware they put their time in other relevant things. You have the time
    to obsess over these details. I tend to (though not to the extent you do), but
    I could already be considered too much of a perfectionist, taking too much time
    to get things right which most people won't even notice. I suspect if I were to
    become a \"tradesman\" in design, I wouldn't have that job for long. It would
    simply cost too much time and money. I suppose that's a good thing though. That
    means the profession of a typesetter will remain a while longer. I'm all for specialized
    professions like that. I pride myself to be one of the most knowledgeable type
    geeks at my academy. I feel every design studio should have a designer in their
    team who is more knowledgeable about type than the general designer but so far
    this hasn't been the case; at every design studio I worked at so far, I greatly
    upgraded their typographic practices and replaced their company logo (3 times
    in a row now).\r\n\r\nCharles, I thank you for elaborating; it was a very interesting
    read and I feel like I appreciate the typesetter's profession even more now. Having
    said that though I wonder why you feel the need to insult at such frequency. Your
    statement about Hrant trying to annoy you could be considered cute but the Rate
    My Teacher link isn't amusing and I have to wonder what you achieved. I've definitely
    noticed he has strong opinions (which I can appreciate) but he hasn't insulted
    me (yet, but if he does I'm going to take it with a pinch of salt) and I feel
    he has been very helpful personally and generally.\r\n\r\nIt seems you guys tend
    to be too emotional. Can't we just focus on offering information and keep the
    violence domestic? I don't feel a need for it here."
  created: '2014-07-18 09:34:06'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "@Martin: The bad blood between Hrant and Charles is well known to Typophiles.
    We just try to avoid taking sides and skip the more bitter parts of their exchanges\u2026\r\n\r\nRe
    the designer/typesetter matter: When I discovered the Mac in the mid eighties
    (I just started out as a graphic designer, with some clients in the HR-business
    for whom I designed a lot of typebased templates) I immedately saw its potential
    to be my own typesetter. Cutting that middleman suited my own temperament and
    obsession for typographic excellence. Still does\u2026"
  created: '2014-07-18 12:22:52'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I think the bad blood can be amusing, but things went too far in this thread.
    It shouldn't impose on other people like that.\r\n\r\nBert, I don't remember if
    it was here or on a different post but someone said the software nowadays isn't
    optimally suited for typesetting. Has this been your experience as well? I think
    InDesign is some wonderful software. Does it lack in any way regarding typesetting?\r\n\r\nI
    have a multi-media diploma and I'm studying graphic design right now but I've
    been specializing in typography for almost 5 years now and want to continue down
    that path. As such I would love to know more about the possibilities regarding
    typesetting and how I might differentiate myself more from the average designer.
    I sometimes get the feeling though that the people who have the most specialized
    information tend to be from previous generations and it's starting to get lost
    in current generations. I feel rather restricted regarding access to typographic
    knowledge at the art academy."
  created: '2014-07-18 19:09:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I insult Charles far less than he insults me (and in fact type designers
    in general). In this thread I've done virtually nothing. And I would never go
    trawling around for dirt.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-18 19:17:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: InDesign could do better in the way it presents Stylistic sets to the user.
  created: '2014-07-18 19:46:28'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Hrant, insulting less is barely something to be looked at positively, but
    I did notice an imbalance in the insults and the fact you seem to be more conservative
    with your insults, hence I asked Charles specifically why he feels the urge to
    insult at such a frequency.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>InDesign could do better in the
    way it presents Stylistic sets to the user.</blockquote>\r\nAgreed. I personally
    think the accessibility of the OT features is quite messy anyway. For one, I don't
    understand why there is no consistency within these menus between PS, AI and ID.
    They might have improved things in Adobe CC but I'm not familiar with it.\r\n\r\nBut
    is InDesign restricted in its capabilities for typesetting? Is there software
    around which utilizes better algorithms for justification or whatever?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    this is really getting off-topic but I don't want to start a new thread for this,
    but what are your feelings on justified texts anyway? I understand rivers should
    be avoided but with the right settings justified text can look solid. But, despite
    that, do you feel left-aligned text still performs better or is it a matter aesthetics?
    I always wonder to which extent something objective could be said about justified
    text versus left-aligned text anyway. Have there been studies on this?"
  created: '2014-07-18 23:45:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: There is no single answer to justified vs rag setting.  Sometimes you need
    one, sometimes the other.  A good compositor will have  a good way to deal with
    both. It is mostly a case of craftsmanship, how well  you do it, not which one
    is easier.
  created: '2014-07-19 02:28:56'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "<blockquote>Is there software around which utilizes better algorithms for
    justification or whatever?</blockquote>\r\nhttps://github.com/bramstein/typeset"
  created: '2014-07-19 02:57:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't buy the merits of justification. Its only advantage is a nice rectangular
    text block, and its disadvantage is ruining wordspacing and/or letterspacing,
    hence reading. Almost never a good trade-off in my mind. Yes, rag-right requires
    more care \u2013sometimes even hyphenation\u2013 to avoid occasional distracting
    patterns, but then justified text has rivers, which are even harder to expunge.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-19 03:50:19'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Rag right looks a bit more informal to me, plus better word spacing. I seldom
    justify unless I need a more formal look or there's some other good reason to
    do so.\r\n\r\nA few years ago I set a rag right newsletter in justified text one
    month as an experiment. To my surprise neither the client or proofreader even
    noticed."
  created: '2014-07-19 05:10:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's the thing, readers might <em>feel</em> the greater formality of justified
    columns, and that's not totally insignificant, but when is it worth sacrificing
    comfortable reading for that?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-19 05:19:07'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I guess that's why I'm asking. I tend to justify my text because I feel I
    can compensate for the things that lead to a less comfortable reading experience
    enough to justify doing so, but at the art academy there are some people who are
    of the opinion you should never justify your text. They usually get to that conclusion
    because they don't know how to fix rivers though, or they think variety in line
    length will aid in reading. I actually never noticed such an effect on reading
    comfort. Besides, all novels feature justified texts and I never experienced any
    difficulties reading for that reason. If I experience difficulties at all, it
    will be because of the typeface, tight spacing, long lines and small leading.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not implying since all novels feature justified text it must be the best practice.
    Rather, the fact that all novels feature justified text and I still find them
    a comfort to read suggests that if you're a good typographer, justifying your
    text hardly has any negative effect on reading comfort. In magazines this is probably
    more damaging at times because they tend to be less conservative in their typographic
    practices.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>That's the thing, readers might feel the greater
    formality of justified columns, and that's not totally insignificant, but when
    is it worth sacrificing comfortable reading for that?</blockquote>\r\nYou almost
    make it seem like reading comfort is completely lost. I actually wonder how much
    impact justified columns have on the reading experience both ways. They might
    balance each other out when done right."
  created: '2014-07-19 06:28:27'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I know I've seen it written that ragged-right is strongly recommended because
    of the danger of distracting large spaces between words. However, if one takes
    the effort to hyphenate, and the columns are not too narrow, usually full justification
    can be carried off successfully; after all, typographers have hundreds of years
    of experience in addressing the issue.\r\n\r\nThus, instead of telling people
    they <em>shouldn't</em> justify text, my inclination would be to warn them that
    justification of text, to be done acceptably (let alone well) will require extra
    work.\r\n\r\nYes, the preference for justified text (the <em>perceived</em> preference
    for justified text?) is perhaps due only to habit and tradition, and thus to an
    uneducated taste, but I'm a little leery of telling people what they should like.\r\n\r\n<cite>You
    almost make it seem like reading comfort is completely lost. I actually wonder
    how much impact justified columns have on the reading experience both ways. They
    might balance each other out when done right.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhile I agree with
    most of what you have written in that paragraph, I don't go as far as agreeing
    with its last sentence.\r\n\r\nI do think that it's quite likely that justification
    of the right margin, when done reasonably well, will not produce a significant
    negative impact on the reading experience; as long as the columns are not to narrow,
    if hyphenation is also used, the word spacing should largely remain within acceptable
    levels.\r\n\r\nHowever, I still admit two things: that there will be <em>some</em>
    potential for negative impact on word spacing (some words don't permit themselves
    to be hyphenated often enough), and that fully-justified columns don't offer a
    benefit for readability that could in any way offset this. (The benefits are in
    other areas, such as the aesthetics of the page as a whole.)\r\n\r\nSo I wouldn't
    claim any chance of things fully balancing out - even if I refuse to reject justified
    columns for that reason, on the basis that readability, while very important,
    is not so important that avoiding even the slightest impingement on readability
    trumps all other concerns.\r\n\r\nHad I thought the impact would be more than
    slight, <em>then</em> I would think it reasonable to put that before such trivial
    concerns as following tradition and convention."
  created: '2014-07-19 15:07:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Justification will require extra work, and will <em>still</em> be sub-optimal.
    Lining things up is for kids. And Modernists. Same difference.\r\n\r\nYes, you
    don't tell people what they should like. But you do give them what you think they
    need, as opposed to what will make them like you more.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-19 15:08:48'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> all novels feature justified texts \r\n\r\nI've read that's usually done
    because books are often printed on thin paper and show-through is less distracting
    with justified text. \r\n\r\nBut speaking about the topic in general, I think
    this is something that designers like to discuss but it doesn't make a huge difference
    to most readers (assuming the type is set well)."
  created: '2014-07-19 17:03:12'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>I've read that's usually done because books are often printed
    on thin paper and show-through is less distracting with justified text.</blockquote>\r\nAhh
    clever. I didn't consider that.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I think this is something that
    designers like to discuss but it doesn't make a huge difference to most readers</blockquote>\r\nIt
    should. They probably won't notice it consciously, but everything should have
    an effect one way or another."
  created: '2014-07-20 00:52:19'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: It does, just not on d2d (drives to distraction) level.
  created: '2014-07-20 16:36:29'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "IMO the biggest impediments to readability (notice that this is not legibility)
    are (in order):\r\nWordspaces that are too large.\r\nLetterspacing that is too
    loose.\r\nLeading that is too tight or loose.\r\n\r\nThe first two are hard to
    avoid in justified text. Ergo: ragged text is better than justified.\r\n\r\nBTW
    The standard settings of InDesign (and QuarkXPress) are miles of the mark, probably
    because the US-market generally has had terrible typesetting for ages (in general),
    eg the stupid practice of using double spaces after a full stop."
  created: '2014-07-21 14:57:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, it\u2019s not about the type style (i.e. letter form), but the way it\u2019s
    spaced.\r\nI will demonstrate this with a new typeface I\u2019m launching at TypeCon.\r\n\r\n(nb.
    the default spacing in a font is considered part of the type design, of course,
    but as Bert notes, wordspace, tracking and leading can all be adjusted by the
    typesetter, as can letterspacing (none, metrics, optical or manual) in InDesign/Quark
    &c. The typographer can also adjust weight (similar to press gain) via Stroke,
    and horizontal scaling, neither of which changes the letter shape or style of
    the typeface."
  created: '2014-07-21 18:57:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> I don't buy the merits of justification. Its only advantage is a nice rectangular
    text block\r\n\r\nIt also makes paragraph endings much more obvious."
  created: '2014-07-22 20:30:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"It also makes paragraph endings much more obvious.\"\r\n\r\nThose who know
    how to set a decent rag well, know how to adjust for this, Thomas."
  children:
  - author:
      name: J. Tillman
      picture: 118124
    body: Dezcom, can you explain that adjustment or provide a link? Thank you.
    created: '2014-07-22 21:09:59'
  created: '2014-07-22 20:48:21'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: 'Adjustments: whitespace, either horizontal or vertical and in the hands of
    a master both.'
  created: '2014-07-22 22:36:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I agree with Bert in his comments and also stress that this is a skill issue
    and there is no magic formula.\r\nOne way is to look at the last lines in a paragraph
    and make specific line breaks to make sure the last line is neither too short
    or too long.  Too long does not hint at a paragraph end.  Most often, type set
    ragged has a blank linespace between paragraphs so knowing the paragraph has ended
    is not much of a problem.\r\nOn the rare occasions where there is no line break,
    indentation and careful management of last-line length are quite adequate to signal
    a paragraph ending.  The writer often helps as well by tidying up the final thought
    in the wording."
  created: '2014-07-22 22:50:49'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Chris, indentation with ragged text? I can't think a way to make it look
    good (the other methods you mention are all valid to me).\r\n\r\nBesides, how
    comes a thread titled \"Monotype buys FontShop...\" ended up being about text
    justification? ;-)"
  created: '2014-07-23 09:56:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Riccardo, Indented rag is not something I recommend. Some clients (particularly
    periodicals) are very fond of space and time  saving and may, at times, insist
    on it.  Even if a compositor does not like indented rag, it does not mean that
    they should not learn to make it work. The typesetter isn't always the one who
    gets to choose, publisher/editor/client often have strong voices.
  created: '2014-07-23 16:39:33'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "/me puts on his straightest face.\r\n\r\nriccard0: Can the thread's original
    subject be justified otherwise?"
  created: '2014-07-23 21:13:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Oh, T\xE9, my face is flushed now that you thought of it first!  ;-)"
  created: '2014-07-23 21:55:16'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<cite>BTW The standard settings of InDesign (and QuarkXPress) are miles of
    the mark</cite>\r\n\r\nI suppose you mean \"off the mark\"? Can you be more specific?"
  created: '2014-07-30 20:33:06'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I am surprised that no one has pointed out the most important function of
    justified text. Justification is what allows high school students to distinguish
    poetry from prose in Shakespearian texts. :-)\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2014-08-09 17:29:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ":->\r\nActually now you've got me thinking: poetry is about regularity \u2013
    shouldn't it be set fully justified?  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-09 17:55:30'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Regularity isn\u2019t the same as uniformity\u2026"
  created: '2014-08-09 18:49:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">e US-market generally has had terrible typesetting for ages (in general),
    eg the stupid practice of using double spaces after a full stop.\r\n\r\nWhere
    have you seen this?\r\n\r\nI don't think I've ever seen it in a professional publication
    in the U.S., at least in stuff published since WWI, and probably long before.
    Some people doing personal stuff mistakenly adopt this typewriter practice, but
    not anything professionally published.\r\n\r\nLegal stuff which in a monospaced
    typewriter font may be an exception, but I don't read that stuff, so I don't know.
    \ "
  created: '2014-08-09 20:04:32'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: Almost all my clients, and sometimes even copywriters, submit copy with double
    spaces after periods. But I routinely strip them out, and I rarely see them in
    published materials unless done by an amateur.
  created: '2014-08-09 20:39:25'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>Actually now you've got me thinking: poetry is about regularity \u2013
    shouldn't it be set fully justified?</cite>\r\n\r\nAs there were smileys with
    that, it was of course intended in jest.\r\n\r\nBut I could, in all innocence,
    reply, that poetry <em>is</em> normally set fully justified... but just like any
    other fully justified text, <em>the last line of any paragraph</em> is not expanded
    out to the right margin.\r\n\r\nAnd so you are seeing all these short lines in
    poems because each one ends in a manual line break, not an automatic one.\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    though, I have seen a phonograph record from Japan where the table listing the
    songs had each title expanded to be of equal width, despite that leaving very
    great spaces between the characters of some titles. So in some cultures, the equivalent
    of \"fully justified poetry\" does exist."
  created: '2014-08-09 23:35:54'
date: '2014-07-15 14:18:48'
node_type: forum
title: Monotype buys FontShop, FontFont and Erik's fonts.

---
