---
author:
  name: guybruno
body: "What are your thoughts on the ubiquity of fonts? Specifically fonts like Gotham
  and Proxima Nova, especially in recent years with the advent of web fonts. Can anyone
  use Gotham as an identity anymore? Has overuse on the web ruined these fonts? Proxima
  Nova is everywhere. As someone who is very interested in branding and how big a
  role a typeface plays into an identity I can't help but feel like Gotham on Proxima
  Nova are almost unusable.\r\n\r\nThoughts?"
comments:
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Designers need to keep track of trends and steer clients away from overused
    fonts. \r\n\r\nBut people who deal with type every day are more aware of overuse
    than the general public, just as an interior designer may want to avoid certain
    colors or styles due to overuse but you or I would think they are fine.\r\n\r\n>
    Gotham ...[is] almost unusable\r\n\r\nTell that to Nationwide Insurance. I did
    some work for them a few years ago and they used Gotham as their official font
    (with an alternate \"i\" in the logo) and I think they still do. \r\n\r\nDon't
    get me wrong, it might not be the best choice today (especially for a client that's
    more trendy than an insurance company), but I doubt they are losing any business
    because of it. "
  created: '2014-07-18 19:20:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "An over-used typeface shouldn't be shunned outright, but one does have to
    study what kinds of uses it's been put to. For example Archer has been used for
    so many disparate and very public things, it should generally be avoided.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-18 19:24:18'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I think Helvetica's track record has shown it may not necessarily be bad
    to join the trend. I disagree with that, but apparently the world doesn't. I suspect
    we're going to see Gotham for a while.\r\n\r\nI don't actually see Proxima Nova
    that often though. Incidentally I'm working on a typeface for a company who wants
    to replace Proxima Nova with something different and custom. Proxima Nova works
    well for them but they want to differentiate themselves more."
  created: '2014-07-19 01:19:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Read it and weep:\r\nhttp://www.typewolf.com/blog/industry-leading-designers-share-their-favorite-typefaces\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I
    disagree with that, but apparently the world doesn't.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n\"Eat
    moose \u2013 50,000 wolves can't be wrong.\"\r\n\r\nOr more seriously:\r\n\"In
    questions of science, the authority of a thousand is not worth the humble reasoning
    of a single individual.\" \u2013Galileo\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-19 01:27:30'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I guess I expected even worse, but it's still strange to see so many dull
    choices. These are the people who constantly work with typefaces. They should
    be familiar with all the choice around and yet they still tend to select the same
    \ typefaces as the others. Sometimes I feel graphic designers are so focused on
    function and usability they lose their own identity in the process.\r\n\r\nI notice
    though how the graphic designers tend to select their favorites based on what
    they will probably use most often. As such you don't only get selections which
    are nothing more than practical, but they often tend to go for popular typefaces.
    The first motivation I can understand, but the second one is rather sad. A graphic
    designer shouldn't follow trends so prominently; he should study the trends and
    make his own, well-informed decisions. He should create new trends.\r\n\r\nThe
    type designers in the list I take a lot more seriously. They can actually explain
    why a certain typeface is their favorite; they will actually express their own
    taste and opinions and thus they will usually go for unique choices."
  created: '2014-07-19 06:09:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Sometimes I feel graphic designers are so focused on function
    and usability they lose their own identity in the process.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    don't think that's it. Partly because I feel most graphic designers are actually
    focused on superficial things; it's not that they're not interested in function,
    it's that they're conservative in the realm of function, achieving basic functionality
    with safe approaches. I think their lack of imagination in selecting type comes
    from fear, since they mostly don't feel they have a strong enough grasp of how
    type speaks. Solution: education.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-19 06:29:51'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "They do indeed seem to be conservative in their approach generally. I feel
    like functionality and communication is so important in graphic design though
    that they feel safer in an objective reality. They will focus on trends and psychology
    and play it rather safe. They will realize a certain typeface works well in many
    contexts and is easy to use and thus they will fall back on that often. I've been
    the same way, and in fact I still have a tendency to make safe choices. For example,
    depending on the time of the year I use a few different typefaces for all my essays
    and presentations for school and tend not to go far outside of my comfort zone.
    In this instance it may be more logical as it's not that relevant to consider
    what typeface will work best for a particular essay each time. It's not a brand
    which has to work for years on end, after all. During my teens though I would
    use Garamond very often. It wasn't until I really got into typography that I started
    making more daring choices and started experimenting more.\r\n\r\nI guess a graphic
    designer also needs to consider what will work best for most, rather than what
    he personally likes best. This is what I mean when I say they will loose their
    identity in the process of focusing on functionality and communication. I think
    this is a graphic designer at its core. A better graphic designer will also focus
    on typography and perhaps have overlap with art. I feel these kind of graphic
    designers are a lot more daring. They're the bridge between desktop publishers
    and artists."
  created: '2014-07-19 07:41:32'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I'm not sure what criteria was used to pick these \"industry-leading designers\".
    Most of them are freelancers, and a few don't even describe themselves as designers
    (they say artist, illustrator, etc.).\r\n\r\nI'd be more interested in font choices
    of large design firms that tend to do the more influential work.\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-19 17:20:29'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>Or more seriously:</cite>\r\n<cite>\"In questions of science, the authority
    of a thousand is not worth the humble reasoning of a single individual.\" \u2013Galileo</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    but the reasons why this is true do not also apply to questions of \xE6sthetics.\r\n\r\nScience,
    after all, is about facts that can be <em>verified</em>, so one man can be seen
    to be right even though he contradicts the established authorities that went before
    him.\r\n\r\nIt may well also be the case that one man can be right about a subjective
    matter of taste in \xE6sthetic matters while the authorities are wrong. But that
    depends on how  you define \"right\" - in practice, we tend to consider that has
    happened when the more refined taste of a later era prefers the new idea to the
    old. One example of such a \"one man\" in the field of type design would be John
    Baskerville.\r\n\r\nI clicked on the link, and I was not immediately able to see
    a reason to weep over the typeface choices of the top designers surveyed. I noticed
    one face I saw mentioned twice early on wasn't among the top 11 choices, so I
    looked it up.\r\n\r\nFF Mark is clearly an alternative to Futura. Even I was able
    to notice that it somehow had that quality of being 'sexy' or whatever that would
    make it usable in, say, an expensive magazine about fashion, architecture, or
    art that wished to appear up-to-date.\r\n\r\nIf designers could make typefaces
    like that to order, more publications would commission custom typefaces than do
    already. But, as Frederic W. Goudy said, there is no \"recognized quality\" like
    more cowbell (pointier serifs? Worked for Caslon and Times) that you can just
    add to your typeface to cause it to take the world by storm.\r\n\r\nYou just have
    to design the best typeface you can, with awareness of and sensitivity to current
    tastes, and hope that your typeface becomes accepted. So with hits being a hit-or-miss
    process in typography as it is in popular music... when a typeface <em>is</em>
    a hit, <strong>of course</strong> as soon as it becomes generally available, it
    will be overused.\r\n\r\nSince designers work to serve their customers, and their
    customers generally have mercantile goals, a counsel to be more adventurous or
    more original is not likely to be heeded - except by some who are driven by their
    own \xE6sthetic imperatives to do so come what may, and then a <em>few</em> from
    within that group will have the talent to pull it off and ascend to the stratospheric
    heights of that profession.\r\n\r\nNot every artist can be Michaelangelo. But
    they all have to put food on the table."
  created: '2014-07-19 17:57:27'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "And keep in mind that many folks here think about fonts all the time, but
    a graphic designer has many other aspects to their job \u2014 photos, illustrations,
    layout, printing, web coding, client meetings, etc.  \r\n\r\nChoosing fonts is
    important but may represent only a tiny fraction of their time, so they may tend
    to use old favorites."
  created: '2014-07-19 18:47:29'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: I don't think ubiquity can kill a typeface (especially not one the skews as
    far towards the vernacular as Gotham), but it can certainly make it harder to
    wield effectively.
  created: '2014-07-19 19:46:41'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: I don't think ubiquity can kill a typeface (especially not one the skews as
    far towards the vernacular as Gotham), but it can certainly make it harder to
    wield effectively.
  created: '2014-07-19 19:46:42'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>Yes, but the reasons why this is true do not also apply to questions
    of \xE6sthetics.</blockquote>\r\nThat's very true, but I think it's a common misconception
    that design is entirely subjective. Art will be more subjective, but in design
    there are many principles at play which could be considered to be objectively
    true, even if only through the lens of human understanding and culture.\r\n\r\nI
    don't disagree with you, but there is a bit of counterbalance.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Even
    I was able to notice that it somehow had that quality of being 'sexy' or whatever
    that would make it usable in</blockquote>\r\nThere are quite a few typefaces on
    that list I can definitely appreciate, but compared to all that is available,
    I find most choices to be quite dull.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>So with hits being a
    hit-or-miss process in typography as it is in popular music... when a typeface
    is a hit, of course as soon as it becomes generally available, it will be overused.</blockquote>\r\nThat's
    understandable, but why some typefaces linger is perhaps less understandable.
    For example, Helvetica was a great success at the time, but if you're going to
    select Helvetica as the best typeface nowadays, I think you're just ill-informed.
    I guess I feel many designers aren't really going with the time when it comes
    to typefaces.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Since designers work to serve their customers,
    and their customers generally have mercantile goals, a counsel to be more adventurous
    or more original is not likely to be heeded - except by some who are driven by
    their own \xE6sthetic imperatives to do so come what may, and then a few from
    within that group will have the talent to pull it off and ascend to the stratospheric
    heights of that profession.</blockquote>\r\nI think you're implying the quality
    most designers will provide satisfy the needs of their clients and only few designers
    have the capacity to take it to the next level. I agree with that, but I don't
    think one should be satisfied with keeping clients satisfied. One should aspire
    to offer the best possible.\r\n\r\nI see a really nasty side-effect of only satisfying
    clients when I look at design on the street. Clients usually aren't trained in
    design and so although one could argue their opinions are valid, I feel like the
    designer should know what works best \u2014 more so than the client does. By only
    satisfying the client, at times the quality will suffer a bit. I see a lot of
    really ugly posters on the streets and typographic mistakes like using hyphens
    where dashes should be used are really prevalent. As a result, people in general
    no longer understand what good design is. They see the designs around them and
    think it's the best one could offer, but clearly a lot of things are going wrong
    and barely anyone notices them.\r\n\r\nI'm keeping a visual diary about typography
    by taking pictures every day because this is my way of dealing with my frustrations,
    and I can tell you that in 90% of the times hyphens are used where dashes are
    appropriate. This really angers me, because the correct typographical practice
    seems to be almost lost and I actually think of it as seriously as using dots
    where comma's are appropriate. There has been a loss of function in typography
    and only few people notice it. I'm actually surprised at the occasional moments
    I do spot it being done correctly, as I've learned not to expect it.\r\n\r\nThe
    standard of design is way too low. We designers should be the ones to guard quality,
    but quite obviously we can only protect what we're aware of. Most designers don't
    know what an en dash or em dash is, so they will do it wrong. The client won't
    notice everything that is going wrong because he's not trained to do so. As such,
    I think it's a dangerous practice not to aspire to more than what the client needs."
  created: '2014-07-20 00:46:53'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> the profession of a designer is getting broader and \r\n> broader because
    as a result the quality inherently suffers. \r\n\r\nI agree. But there are many
    professions where a broad range of tasks needs to be performed.\r\n\r\n> Design
    studios should consist of more specialists\r\n\r\nSome designers do have specialties.
    A famous example is Susan Kare who specializes in computer icon design. The problem
    with being too specific is that it limits job opportunities. "
  created: '2014-07-20 01:36:05'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>And keep in mind that many folks here think about fonts all the
    time, but a graphic designer has many other aspects to their job \u2014 photos,
    illustrations, layout, printing, web coding, client meetings, etc.</blockquote>\r\nYes,
    and yet it's their job to protect the quality on all these aspects. As such I
    don't consider it to be a good thing that the profession of a designer is getting
    broader and broader and as a result the quality inherently suffers. Design studios
    should consist of more specialists, rather than whole teams who do the exact same
    thing."
  created: '2014-07-20 03:34:10'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>I agree. But there are many professions where a broad range of
    tasks needs to be performed.</blockquote>\r\nI don't really see your point. Those
    other professions probably suffer as well. I don't think it's just design where
    the quality suffers due to the broad range of tasks required to be accomplished
    \u2014 in too little time. It's a big problem within the government as well.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Some
    designers do have specialties. A famous example is Susan Kare who specializes
    in computer icon design. The problem with being too specific is that it limits
    job opportunities.</blockquote>\r\nI know some do, and in my opinion the studios
    who do have specialists often accomplish higher quality. I also know that it's
    not a viable option for many design studios. However, I think every design studio
    should at least have one person in their team who knows a lot about typography.
    They will usually have graphic designers, illustrators, web designers and programmers
    but no one with a particular knowledge of typography. I think that's really odd
    considering typography is a large part of graphic design.\r\n\r\nAlso, I understand
    a specialist who does just one thing is expensive and thus difficult to maintain.
    Rather, I think every designer should have a specialty, so they can do a broader
    range of things like you would expect from a designer, but also have a specialty
    in which they can compliment the team.\r\n"
  created: '2014-07-20 04:29:11'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I don't really see your point. Those other \r\n> professions probably suffer
    as well.\r\n\r\nTrue, but that's the way that many jobs are. \r\n\r\nMy doctor
    is a general practitioner who diagnoses and treats a broad range of problems.
    My lawyer handles everything from wills to lawsuits to defending  folks charged
    with crimes. An architect may design everything from churches to houses to office
    buildings. \r\n\r\nWill a specialist do better? Probably so. But there's also
    a place for the generalist who can handle a broad range of design projects.\r\n\r\n>
    I think every design studio should at least have one person \r\n> in their team
    who knows a lot about typography.\r\n\r\nYes, that's a good idea."
  created: '2014-07-20 05:48:49'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@Martin Silvertant:\r\n<cite>I see a really nasty side-effect of only satisfying
    clients when I look at design on the street.</cite>\r\n\r\nI should note that
    when I wrote about satisfying clients, I was thinking of <em>competent</em> clients,
    i.e. magazines like <em>Vogue</em> or <em>Vanity Fair</em>, not, say, the average
    laundromat or convenience store looking for a sign to put up.\r\n\r\nIn this case,
    FontFont is not an option, and we're talking the Letraset catalog; I hope that
    people at a typical sign-making shop can advise customers about spelling or grammatical
    mistakes, and they may even have heard that Papyrus and Comic Sans should be used
    with caution, but in general I think a very different set of issues arises at
    that level compared to what was being discussed - the overuse of trendy typefaces
    by the world's top designers.\r\n\r\nAt the local sign shop level, what's getting
    overused are things like Pretoria and Serpentine - not currently \"trendy\" by
    any stretch of the imagination."
  created: '2014-07-20 09:42:16'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>I was thinking of competent clients, i.e. magazines like Vogue
    or Vanity Fair, not, say, the average laundromat or convenience store looking
    for a sign to put up.<blockquote>\r\nHmm I don't know if I like the distinction
    between competent and incompetent clients. Isn't it the designer's job to guarantee
    quality? I know some clients can be difficult and ignorant so I understand what
    you're getting at, but I'm not sure it's competence necessarily what makes Vogue.
    Also, laundromats are the other end of the spectrum. What I was particularly getting
    at are posters for festivals and larger organisations. No Vogue, but still entities
    you would expect more of. Besides, mixing up hyphens and dashes doesn't have much
    to do with the client."
  created: '2014-07-20 18:06:07'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I probably wouldn't use the word \"competent\" as it's generally not the
    client's job to understand design. That's the designer's job.  \r\n\r\nBut certainly
    there are clients who have no taste and refuse to listen to advice, and projects
    for them seldom end up in the portfolio."
  created: '2014-07-20 19:34:35'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I'm not sure what term is appropriate; but it just seemed to me that major
    clients who can afford to hire highly qualified typographers - and who have enough
    in-house expertise to assess their work competently - are a completely different
    kettle of fish than small businesses having signage done, and so I felt using
    one to make a point in a discussion about the other would only confuse matters.
  created: '2014-07-21 07:43:43'
- author:
    name: DrDoc
    picture: 114000
  body: Eh, the more money a client has, the less likely they are to have great work,
    because then you're dealing with corporate structures and chains of approval.
    A small business that is thoughtful enough to hire a graphic designer instead
    of just going to a sign shop is usually where the best work comes from.
  created: '2014-07-22 17:43:04'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: "I think picking a font should be based on appropriateness for the intended
    function. Part of that equation is the question of how different or similar to
    others in that market do you/the client want to be. If you want to look trustworthy,
    established and permanent, then you might pick a font or style that is popular
    amongst other companies that share those values (or perceived values). Equally
    so if you want to appear cutting edge and trendy, you might intentionally reject
    all the fonts being used by competitors in that market and pick something completely
    different. \r\n\r\nBut, for me, this is always tempered with the reality that
    most people don't consciously look at the letterforms with way type designers
    and even graphic designers do. So taking a step back, and trying to look at the
    overall impact of the identity helps me decide is a specific font choice is working
    or not. Sometimes, using a ubiquitous font is appropriate. "
  created: '2014-07-23 00:55:00'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Usually, I would have thought, companies want to use a typeface that\r\n\r\na)
    is not used by any other company in the same market, but\r\n\r\nb) which has the
    same qualities as the typefaces used by other companies in that market, but is
    <em>better</em>.\r\n\r\nIf the competition is using Times Roman, I'll use Life.
    If the competition is using Palatino, I'll use FF Maiola. If the competition is
    using Gill Sans, I'll use Hypatia Sans.\r\n\r\nThat sort of thing."
  created: '2014-07-24 01:40:37'
date: '2014-07-18 17:05:28'
node_type: forum
title: Font Ubiquity - Gotham and Proxima Nova

---
