---
author:
  name: Martin Silvertant
  picture: 118818
body: "I'm wondering if it's possible to script any advanced features. Primarily I'm
  looking to solve a specific problem, but more generally I'm curious if more can
  be done with OT scripting than the standard \"sub\" script to replace one glyph
  with an other.\r\n\r\nI'm tired of people over-hyphens so I wanted to script a fix
  for that, so in the standard ligatures I put the following code:\r\nsub comma hyphen
  by comma_endash;\r\n\r\nThis replaces the comma followed by a hyphen with a ligature
  glyph where I have a comma followed by a line which is in between the hyphen and
  the en dash in length, which is more appropriate for denoting prices ($50,\u2013).\r\n\r\nNow
  I want to do the same fix for \"x\" after numbers, so every time an /x is typed
  after a number it's automatically replaced by a multiply symbol. Unfortunately I'm
  unable to script this accordingly. Every time I try to generate the font, it aborts
  because of an error in the script. Now, I'm not sure if my code is appropriate for
  numbers. I'm trying the following:\r\nsub one x by one multiply;\r\n\r\nI suppose
  it's possible to replace 1 followed by x by a '1\xD7' \"ligature\" like in the comma/hyphen
  example but I need the code to be much more flexible because it's not realistic
  to create such a \"ligature\" for all numbers from all number sets, and with this
  method it's no longer affected by tracking. So is there a way to define that the
  /x is automatically replaced by the multiply symbol when preceded by a number? If
  I can't script this for all numbers automatically, is it possible to script it for
  each number specifically without having to rely on the ligature method described
  above? Is this function possible at all?"
comments:
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "1. What font editor are you using?\r\n2. What application(s) are you testing
    your font in?\r\n3. Have you read this: [[http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/opentype/afdko/topic_feature_file_syntax.html
    | Adobe Feature File Syntax information]]\r\n\r\nScripting should not be necessary.
    Substitution allows for more than one-to-one, but you have to write it correctly
    and more importantly the app you intend to use the font in must support it. Check
    the Adobe Developer site linked in #3 above and read up on the syntax. I think
    it will save you a lot of time and frustration.\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-30 04:51:42'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "This is the newest Feature File Specification:\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/topic_feature_file_syntax.html\r\nI
    think that type of automation is no good idea, unless you want to make your font
    unusable. In my example I used Stylistic Set, so user must chose this behaviour
    intentionally.\r\nAnyway:\r\n\"sub comma hyphen by comma_endash;\"\r\nbetter\r\nsub
    comma hyphen' by endash;\r\n\"replace 1 followed by x by a '1\xD7'\"\r\nsub @numbers
    x' by multiply;\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kerning_6721.jpg]\r\n\r\nfull
    .fea file:\r\nlanguagesystem DFLT dflt;\r\nlanguagesystem latn dflt;\r\n@numbers=[zero
    one two three four five six seven eight nine];\r\n\r\nfeature ss01 {\r\nsub @numbers
    x' by multiply;\r\nsub comma hyphen' by endash;\r\n} ss01;"
  created: '2014-08-30 12:24:06'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "1. FontLab Studio\r\n2. FontLab Studio, Illustrator, InDesign\r\n3. I hadn't
    read it until now. It probably doesn't solve all my problems (I still prefer asking
    about specific problems and see best practices) but it does create new possibilities
    already.\r\n\r\n<cite>Scripting should not be necessary.</cite>\r\nWhat do you
    mean by this? I've seen that in some software like Glyphs the scripting is done
    for you, but somehow I still prefer to do it myself. At least I know what exactly
    is going on in the back end, and I would like to use the software most type designers
    use so that I can ask questions if necessary. There are already too few tutorial
    videos on FontLab. It might be worse for other software. However I'm interested
    in hearing what you might use to improve the workflow.\r\n\r\n<cite>I think that
    type of automation is no good idea, unless you want to make your font unusable.</cite>\r\nWhy
    isn't it a good idea? How does it make the font unusable? I have no problem with
    putting the scripts in stylistic sets, but I thought it was a good idea to fix
    as many issues as possible with the standard ligatures set.\r\n\r\n<cite>sub comma
    hyphen' by endash;</cite>\r\nI read that the hyphen defines the glyph to be replaced.
    Does it ignore the comma in this case? I guess this is the better way to script
    because you can still perform tracking on the comma and endash, right?\r\n\r\n<cite>@numbers=[zero
    one two three four five six seven eight nine];</cite>\r\nWhere would you put this
    line of code? Underneath the language statements or inside the stylistic set?
    I want the x to be replaced by a multiply symbol after any kind of number. Do
    I need to define all number sets in \"@numbers=[]\"?\r\n\r\n<cite>In my example
    I used Stylistic Set, so user must chose this behaviour intentionally.</cite>\r\nWhy
    is it better in this case to choose it intentionally? Are there contexts in which
    you would want to use comma-dash and x inappropriately?\r\n\r\nThanks a lot for
    the tips!"
  created: '2014-08-30 14:57:16'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "It's generally a bad idea for a font to change the actual character codes
    instead of just changing glyph variation, even if this is done in an attempt to
    fix sloppy typesetting. Sometimes people really do intend the characters that
    they type. For example, consider an algebraic expression y = 3x + 15 \r\n\r\nThere
    was a discussion of this some years ago here, with many useful comments on the
    problem: [[http://typophile.com/node/34108]]"
  created: '2014-08-30 15:55:10'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<cite>For example, consider an algebraic expression y = 3x + 15</cite>\r\nI'm
    glad you mentioned this. I feel stupid for not having considered the use of x
    in mathematics. Even in a stylistic set, having x automatically replaced by the
    multiply symbol when placed after a number seems like a bad idea. I should define
    the context more clearly.\r\n\r\nCan someone tell me how to have the x replaced
    by the multiply symbol only when the x is both preceded and followed by a number
    or spaces and numbers? So only in these contexts:\r\n2x2=4\r\n2 x 2 = 4\r\n\r\nI
    will then also place it in a stylistic set so you can still turn the feature off.\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-30 16:06:47'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "\"you can still perform tracking on the comma and endash, right?\"\r\nRight\r\n\"@numbers=[zero
    one two three four five six seven eight nine];\r\nWhere would you put this line
    of code?\"\r\nIf you want to use this Class in another functions, declare it outside
    any features (globally). If it is to use only once - inside the feature.\r\n[named
    lookups behave differently - declared globally or locally are always available]\r\n\"Do
    I need to define all number sets in \"@numbers=[]\"?\"\r\nAll 10 digits are defined
    already.\r\nThanks DTY, excellent thread.\r\n\r\n\"2x2=4\r\n2 x 2 = 4\"\r\nfeature
    ss02 {\r\nsub @numbers x' @numbers by multiply;\r\nsub @numbers space x' space
    @numbers by multiply;\r\n} ss02;\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-30 16:57:53'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<cite>If you want to use this Class in another functions, declare it outside
    any features (globally)</cite>\r\nThat's the same panel where the language feature
    is defined, right?\r\n\r\n<cite>All 10 digits are defined already.</cite>\r\nI
    meant all number sets, not all digits. But I guess the code refers to all number
    sets.\r\n\r\nI have another question. I have disconnected ligatures for f?, ff?
    (where the /f is shorter so it doesn't blend with the question mark) and another
    two for an alternate question mark which is part of a stylistic set. Now I have
    learned some new tricks on scripting I want to get rid of these ligatures and
    substitute the /f instead. It works fine for a single /f, but what do I do for
    double glyphs? I tried the following:\r\nsub f' f' question by f_f.alt;\r\n\r\nIt
    looks right when I test it in FontLab. Is it right? I'm just making sure I'm using
    the script appropriately"
  created: '2014-08-30 21:08:55'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>I just realized you are referring to writing feature code as
    scripting while in my mind scripting is something along the lines of Python.</blockquote>\r\nThey're
    all scripting languages, whether it's Python, OpenType, CSS, Javascript etc. What
    would you usually refer to writing OT code as?\r\n\r\nThanks for the clarification
    on Adobe syntax."
  created: '2014-08-31 01:29:23'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: Just coding a feature. You are right though, it is scripting but on a small
    scale.
  created: '2014-08-31 04:40:22'
- author:
    name: Grzegorz Rolek
  body: "<blockquote>They're all scripting languages, whether it's Python, OpenType,
    CSS, Javascript etc.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIn a very broad sense, OpenType features
    could be seen as a form of scripting language as they define a set of rules for
    the interpreter to follow, but what is usually called a scripting language has
    many more characteristics than that and basically no one in this industry refers
    to OpenType features as such. It\u2019s also why no one calls CSS a scripting
    language, but rather a style description language."
  created: '2014-08-31 14:15:35'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: To me, OT feature code feels more like a kind of advanced search and replace,
    like grep or regex, at least with GSUB. GPOS is more like a lookup table.
  created: '2014-08-31 16:49:14'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: "<blockquote><em>Scripting should not be necessary.</em>\r\nWhat do you mean
    by this?</blockquote> \r\n\r\nI just realized you are referring to writing feature
    code as scripting while in my mind scripting is something along the lines of Python.
    I suppose in the strictest sense of the word \"scripting\", feature code might
    be considered as such but I haven't previously seen it referred to that way. Thus
    the confusion on my part.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>sub comma hyphen' by endash;\r\nI
    read that the hyphen defines the glyph to be replaced. Does it ignore the comma
    in this case? I guess this is the better way to script because you can still perform
    tracking on the comma and endash, right?</blockquote> \r\n\r\nThe right quote
    marks the glyph or glyph group to be replaced, and yes, it is the better way.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>It
    works fine for a single /f, but what do I do for double glyphs? I tried the following:\r\nsub
    f' f' question by f_f.alt;</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThat appears to work but it does
    not follow the Adobe syntax specs and may not always work everywhere. The Adobe
    specs say it should be written as:\r\n<em>sub [f f]' question by f_f.alt;</em>\r\n"
  created: '2014-08-31 17:11:01'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "\"sub [f f]' question by f_f.alt;\"\r\nI believe this line works like this:\r\nIF
    \\f \\?  or \\f \\? is met THEN  \\f  is substituted by \\f_f.alt\r\n[nota bene:
    second \\f !]\r\nso output is: \\f \\f_f.alt \\question\r\nYou probably want:\r\nsub
    f' f' question by f_f.alt\r\n(see OpenType Feature File Specification, 5.f.i.
    Specifying a Chain Sub rule and marking sub-runs, Example 4. [[http://www.adobe.com/devnet/opentype/afdko/topic_feature_file_syntax.html#5.f.i|Link]])"
  created: '2014-08-31 22:49:04'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>It\u2019s also why no one calls CSS a scripting language, but
    rather a style description language.</blockquote>\r\nI've been calling it a scripting
    language. Apparently incorrectly so, although I appear not to be the only one
    when I search on Google."
  created: '2014-09-01 16:06:08'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: Not counting scripts written as add-ins for font editors, the only time I've
    seen anything pertaining to fonts referred to as "script" pertains to writing
    systems. For example, Latin, Cyrillic and Greek are all scripts.
  created: '2014-09-01 19:25:30'
- author:
    name: Grzegorz Rolek
  body: "<blockquote>I've been calling [CSS] a scripting language. Apparently incorrectly
    so, although I appear not to be the only one when I search on Google.</blockquote>\r\nYou
    know, there are people that say HTML is a programming language, and this despite
    the <em>Markup</em> in its very name\u2026 But that\u2019s just nomenclature.
    Really what matters is clear communication, and the misunderstanding you had with
    George speaks for itself. Regardless of what the reasons are, throughout those
    twenty years \u2018scripting\u2019 just never got it into the OpenType terminology."
  created: '2014-09-02 00:11:25'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote>\r\n<blockquote><p>Now I want to do the same fix for \"x\" after
    numbers, so every time an /x is typed after a number it's automatically replaced
    by a multiply symbol.</p></blockquote>\r\n<p>A type designer's role, I think,
    should be to create a well-designed font, not to ensure that the end user adheres
    a preferred punctuation style.</p>\r\n</blockquote>\r\nAgreed. Add to it that
    there are plenty of instances where this can go wrong (and it will, as per Murphy's
    Law), and that there are few more infuriating things than software that tries
    to outsmart you..."
  created: '2014-09-02 10:29:48'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "<blockquote>I'm tired of people over-hyphens so I wanted to script a fix
    for that, so in the standard ligatures I put the following code: sub comma hyphen
    by comma_endash;\r\n\r\nThis replaces the comma followed by a hyphen with a ligature
    glyph where I have a comma followed by a line which is in between the hyphen and
    the en dash in length, which is more appropriate for denoting prices ($50,\u2013).\r\n\r\nNow
    I want to do the same fix for \"x\" after numbers, so every time an /x is typed
    after a number it's automatically replaced by a multiply symbol.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIt's
    one thing to replace a sequence of letters with a ligature, but I question whether
    the type designer should fill the role of a copy editor any more than the layout
    application should do so. A type designer's role, I think, should be to create
    a well-designed font, not to ensure that the end user adheres to a preferred punctuation
    style."
  created: '2014-09-02 16:15:23'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Agreed. Pretty much nobody calls writing OpenType code \u201Cscripting,\u201D
    and doing so is likely to lead to confusion.\r\n\r\nNot saying it would be crazy
    to refer to it that way, just unwise.  :)"
  created: '2014-09-03 00:52:13'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "What would one call writing OT features though?\r\n\r\nAs for the punctuation
    fixes... I personally feel that to the extent that we can exert control over the
    typography we should do so. The graphic design course I'm following is completely
    lacking on typographic education and when I look at the typography on the streets
    I see errors all the time so apparently some solution is necessary. By the time
    we will graduate I'm convinced more than 90% still won't know the difference between
    a hyphen and an en-dash and still won't understand that the letter /x is not a
    multiply symbol. If the editors aren't preventing these errors, then who else
    should do it? I think an OT feature accessible by a stylistic set is a nice solution.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>but
    I question whether the type designer should fill the role of a copy editor any
    more than the layout application should do so.</blockquote>\r\nWhat about spell
    check for those who can't or refuse to spell correctly? Years ago you might have
    said this is the editor's job but an automatic solution is much more practical
    and elegant and I think you would have admitted to that then. To be honest I don't
    think the solution should be in the typeface but right now no one else is solving
    the problem, except for editors doing manual work but apparently many design agencies
    have no such editors. "
  created: '2014-09-03 19:20:32'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "Regardless of whether writing OT features is considered scripting, it can
    be considered programming or coding.\r\n\r\nAs an example of the complications
    that Riccardo mentioned, I thought of another case: y = 2x\xB2 (I used U+00B2
    here as a Typophile interface hack, but in real life it would be set as an ordinary
    \u201C2\u201D, with superscript style applied either fake or through OT substitution."
  created: '2014-09-04 00:06:31'
- author:
    name: Grzegorz Rolek
  body: "<blockquote>Years ago you might have said [spell check] is the editor's job
    but an automatic solution is much more practical and elegant and I think you would
    have admitted to that then.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nIndicating a misspelling automatically
    is one thing, but autocorrection done in a way that you possibly don\u2019t even
    notice is another. Riccardo\u2019s right when he says that those things can really
    go wrong, just like autocorrection does these days. Either you or the editor would
    have to look through those substitutions each time the text changes anyway, so
    why not do it at the character level in the first place?"
  created: '2014-09-04 00:57:48'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "<blockquote>What about spell check for those who can't or refuse to spell
    correctly? Years ago you might have said this is the editor's job but an automatic
    solution is much more practical and elegant and I think you would have admitted
    to that then.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe more usable spell checkers highlight the
    word as you're typing to provide an immediate indication that a change was made
    and to give the author the option of changing it back. The author also has the
    option of turning off the spell checker or adding custom spellings.\r\n\r\nIf
    someone could come up with a way to do much the same thing with the same kind
    of user control and sophistication on the kinds of problems that you're referring
    to, that would be great. For example, if I could chose to have my text checked
    and/or corrected against the <i>Associated Press Stylebook</i> or the <i>Chicago
    Manual of Style</i> I'd be all for it. Unfortunately, OpenType scripting (or whatever
    it might be called) isn't really robust or extensive enough for something this
    complex.\r\n\r\nAnyway, many of these kinds of issues really are just matters
    of style \u2014 they're not necessarily right or wrong. Also, many are contextual
    in the sense that they might not always be appropriate. For example, substituting
    an en dash for a hyphen between two numbers would be great if the en dash is meant
    to indicate the missing numerical range. On the other hand, an en dash would be
    inappropriate between, say, the numerals in a telephone number. Likewise, 633
    - 244 might be part of an equation or it might be a sequence in a serial number.
    Similarly, the sequence of a comma and an end quote mark is typically reversed
    in British and American style.\r\n\r\nI'm intrigued by what you have in mind,
    but you'd need to be very judicious in the implementation and aware of the limitations.
    You wouldn't want to inadvertently cause a bigger problem than you solved."
  created: '2014-09-04 03:59:44'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "One example of a similar mechanism not doing what it is supposed to do: When
    you type ' (U+0027), MS Word AutoCorrect will try to guess if this is supposed
    to be a single opening quotation mark (after a space) or a single closing quotation
    mark (after any character other than a space). Apostrophes are treated like closing
    quotation marks, but that\u2019s not a problem\u2014in English. In German, single
    closing quotation marks and apostrophes are not represented by the same character
    \u2019 (U+2019). Rather, apostrophes are \u2019 (U+2019), as in English, whereas
    single closing quotation marks are \u2018 (U+2018). But AutoCorrect can\u2019t
    tell. You could try to come up with a better substitution rule (based on the character
    that follows). As long as that doesn\u2019t happen, each and every German-language
    document created in MS Word with AutoCorrect switched on will have the single
    closing quotation marks wrong.\r\n\r\nI would also advise against trying to improve
    the microtypography of a text through OpenType features, for two reasons: First,
    Murphy\u2019s Law. Second, this kind of replacements will screw up the encoding
    of the text. It will lead to glyphs being replaced by other glyphs that don\u2019t
    belong to the underlying character. This would also have the undesirable effect
    that, when you replace your typeface by another, all typographical \u2018improvements\u2019
    will be lost. If you want to promote rule adherence on the microtypographical
    level, write a script for InDesign that performs replacements (like the ones you
    have in mind) on the character level. Many typesetters have created such scripts
    for themselves, but if you come up with something that\u2019s cleverer and more
    comprehensive, there would certainly be a market for that."
  created: '2014-09-04 10:07:18'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite>Regardless of whether writing OT features is considered scripting,
    it can be considered programming or coding.</cite>\r\n\r\nI use the term 'Feature
    Coding' or 'OpenType Coding'.\r\n\r\nWhile the term 'programming' is frequently
    encountered, I personally think it is a bad idea to use this term in reference
    to OT coding because it ultimately can lead to all sorts of misconceptions about
    what you're actually doing when you code features. The language used by AFDKO
    (and, by extension, FontLab), describes static data tables. Thinking of it as
    a programming language can mislead people into thinking that they are creating
    algorithms rather than describing data, which will sometimes result in confusion
    over how a particular feature will actually behave.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2014-09-04 16:57:03'
- author:
    name: AlexanderKatt
    picture: 128454
  body: "I would use \"coding\", not \"programming\" (which is something more serious).\r\n\r\nThis
    is a domain-specific language (like CSS or HTML): \r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Domain-specific_language\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-22 08:21:56'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: That's rather illuminating. Thank you.
  created: '2014-10-22 18:43:25'
date: '2014-08-30 01:39:53'
title: Advanced OpenType features

---
