---
author:
  name: badmonkeyart
  picture: 127661
body: "We are publishing a heavily illustrated version of \"Alice's Adventures in
  Wonderland\" and are hoping to hear recommendations for a font for the body and
  also for a complimentary initial cap for the beginning of  each chapter.  \r\n\r\nThe
  book has at least one color illustration on every page spread and many of the illustrations
  will be free-standing with text flowing around them.\r\n\r\nWe're hoping to find
  a handsome font that feels distinctly old-fashioned, but is also very legible.  (I
  should mention that the tale involves quite a lot of italics and dashes.)\r\n\r\nSo
  far we've favored Garamond and Caslon for the body, but I'd love to find something
  a little more distinctive.  For the initial caps we've so far considered Algerian
  and Birmingham New Street.   \r\n\r\nThis is going to be a very deluxe cloth bound
  art book with ribbon bookmark and slip case. We want a font that also conveys artistry
  and attention to detail.\r\n\r\nThoughts?\r\n\r\n(Alice in Wonderland was first
  published in 1865.)\r\n\r\nWendy Ice, Publisher\r\nwww.daviddelamare.com/alice.html\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Les ONeill
  body: Why don't you hire an interior book designer?
  created: '2014-09-06 13:46:47'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I would recommend Garamond over Caslon. The original Victorian editions used
    Scotch Roman typefaces, but they look drab to modern eyes.\r\n\r\nAlthough I'm
    partial to faces like Italia, Jenson Oldstyle, or Morris' Golden Type, they don't
    come with matching italics, and are more suited to sword-and-sorcery type works
    than an edition of <em>Alice in Wonderland</em>.\r\n\r\nCentury Schoolbook is
    even a possibility, were the edition directed at younger readers. But given your
    likely aim, given that you are asking here, I'm thinking that Centaur might be
    suitable. And then there's Bembo and Poliphilus as other options to consider -
    these are very well-known faces, however, so you might look for something similar
    but more unique."
  created: '2014-09-06 15:29:10'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "Hm, sounds like something that might look/work great in Satyr: https://monokrom.no/fonts/satyr\r\nI\u2019ve
    used it for a book and it does have a distinct old/mystery/story book feel, but
    it\u2019s also quite legible and clear. I think there have been a couple of uses
    for distinctly beautiful books."
  created: '2014-09-06 17:09:48'
- author:
    name: kthomps5
  body: "Nina, excellent suggestion. \r\n\r\nWendy, rather than Algerian or Birmingham
    New Street for initial caps, I'd consider going more modern with the typesetting
    all around. The David Delamare illustrations aren't in the 1865 style of the John
    Tenniel originals\u2014your type design doesn't have to be retro either."
  created: '2014-09-06 18:00:27'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "I agree Satyr could be a great choice.\r\n\r\nYou're going to have to reproduce
    the Mouse's Tale, which may be the acid test. The face has to hold up extra-small.\r\n\r\nI'd
    stay away from Algerian; there's so much of it in community bulletin garbage that
    I doubt it can be redeemed as lavish. Would drop caps and chapter heading in Octant
    be appropriate?"
  created: '2014-09-06 18:34:22'
- author:
    name: badmonkeyart
    picture: 127661
  body: "Thank you for the suggestions!  Please keep them coming.  You're introducing
    me to fonts that I've missed.  (I can see that my library is about to expand as
    I'd like to use some of these for other projects I have in mind.)  I will try
    each  today to see how they feel in the Alice context.  \r\n\r\nkthomps5, you're
    right, this would have been very interesting to try in a more contemporary style.
    \ In fact, if we pursue a publisher for a softcover edition, it might be fun to
    give them this option.  But we've promised our readers a more old-fashioned design
    for this edition.\r\n\r\nLes, for a variety of reasons including lack of funds
    and the desire to have the work feel really consistent with the vision of the
    artist, we (the artist and I) are giving a general look to the designer and she
    has graciously consented to work within those parameters.  Also, I've just been
    so impressed with the comments here that I thought it would be interesting to
    hear opinions on fonts I'm considering and maybe learn about something new.  \r\n\r\nCerulean,
    very perceptive about the Mouse's Tail.  I hadn't thought of that as a test.  The
    drop caps have been challenging because with so many fonts we like most of the
    letters, but one or two just seem odd or uninteresting in this context.  The letters
    that must work are:  A, C, T, I, F, Y, H.   \r\n\r\nGaramond had been our top
    choice so far and seems solid, but I guess I'm hoping for that dorsal hair reaction\u2014that
    particular feeling of rightness one ideally gets with an art project.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-09-06 21:45:18'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "If I may throw my hat in the ring (again), have a look at [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/andreas-stotzner/andron-2/|Andron
    English]]. It has recently gained some popularity for children\u2019s and fantasy
    stuff but is still far from being overused. For initials or captions [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/andreas-stotzner/abendschroth/|Abendschroth]]
    may be worth a try. If you\u2019re looking for something more wild, check [[http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/andreas-stotzner/rosenbaum/|Rosenbaum]]
    \u2026 \r\nHowever, I second that Satyr would be a wonderful option, too."
  created: '2014-09-06 22:01:05'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "\u2026 you should also have a look at Karsten L\xFCcke\u2019s marvellous
    [[http://kltf.de/kltf_litteratra.shtml|Litterata]]!"
  created: '2014-09-06 22:13:19'
- author:
    name: badmonkeyart
    picture: 127661
  body: "Nice designs, Andreas.  Thanks for introducing me to them.  I think Andron
    English might be a little too early in feel for what we're seeking (though I'll
    keep it in mind for other projects.)  But I'll try the Abendschroth for the drop
    caps.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-09-06 22:21:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Although I agree that Andron 2 is not likely to be right for Alice in Wonderland,
    it certainly is an interesting typeface. A bit too unusual for general use, but
    it's nice to see an attempt to bring elements of uncial - more so than fraktur,
    it seems to me - into a legible Roman context.
  created: '2014-09-06 22:35:51'
- author:
    name: ansibil
  body: "I think that a fairly traditional font that\u2019s somewhat softer or friendlier
    than Garamond or Caslon would be better. Have you looked at Arno? Calluna would
    be another choice."
  created: '2014-09-07 20:41:37'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: Personally, I'd go for something that evokes the 19th century more than these,
    but in a more subtle way than using a Scotch Roman straight off. Something like
    [[http://www.stormtype.com/package-walbaum-sans-serif.html|Walbaum]] or [[http://www.linotype.com/92006/BohemiaStdRegular-product.html|Bohemia]].
  created: '2014-09-08 09:38:44'
- author:
    name: badmonkeyart
    picture: 127661
  body: "@Birdseeding:  I'm intrigued by Walbaum and curious, since you've raised
    the topic, if you feel there are, for you, specific identifiable features that
    make a font more evocative of the 19th century.  \r\n\r\nThanks to everyone for
    all the text font suggestions, I've now got a very intriguing list of options
    to lay side by side for comparison.  The font for the drop caps remains more elusive.
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-09-08 11:23:34'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: "Well, it would be features that were typical of the 19th century in type.
    To my understanding, vaguely:\r\n\r\nIn the early 19th century you'd have the
    \"moderns\" or \"didones\" with upright stress, classicist rationalisation, high
    contrast between thicks and thins, more drawn than lettered. Walbaum would be
    a fairly readable example.\r\n\r\nIn the mid-19th century you'd have more type
    experimentation \u2013 but in text mainly building futher on the above with closed
    shapes and long serifs, larger x-height, more compact type. Look at e.g. Shinntype's
    Scotch Modern.\r\n\r\nLate 19th century you're starting to see the influence of
    various revivalist movements like the arts and crafts movement and theorists like
    Theodore Low De Vinne. On the one hand, heavy, renaissance-inspired calligraphic
    type that's sort of an \"anti-trend\" to the above, on the other hand a more subtle
    evolution that takes into account historical shapes and scales back some of the
    extremes of Scotch-style type."
  created: '2014-09-08 14:15:19'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "In the latter part of the 19th century -- at least in North America -- the
    high contrast moderns were out of fashion for body text, the Scotch Moderns were
    everywhere and there was substantial use of  low contrast lighter face Caslon
    styles like Old Style No. 2 & Franklin [nearest digital is  Williams Caslon Text
    https://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontbureau/williams-caslon-text/ ] and the big serifed
    Ronaldson [good digital at http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/canadatype/ronaldson/
    ].\r\nIn the 1890s this assortment of body texts came under pressure from several
    fronts ranging from historical revivals of fonts with \"vigor\" to the revolution
    in printing technology that converted most printing from a craft to high-speed
    presses, as well as the technology that permitted much more precision and standardization
    in making type. The introduction of Century, followed by Cheltenham, meant that
    by 1900 most of these fonts were dropped from the foundry offerings. They were
    quickly replaced by fonts that are still in common use today.\r\nThe problem with
    using a 19th century font for a modern book, even a revival, is that it can make
    the book look quaint and unappealing to the contemporary reader. Noting wrong
    with being authentic, provided it works with the reader.\r\nDon"
  created: '2014-09-10 04:15:13'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "Perhaps something like Athelas http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/type-together/athelas/
    or Plantagenet by Ross Mills of Trio Typeworks http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/tiro/plantagenet/
    might work for this book.  For Plantagenet, note the low contrast and large rounded
    serifs dished at the midpoint. \r\nDon"
  created: '2014-09-10 04:28:22'
- author:
    name: grubstreet
    picture: 126081
  body: Cloister Initials may be a good choice for your drop caps.
  created: '2014-09-10 09:50:22'
- author:
    name: badmonkeyart
    picture: 127661
  body: "Thank you for all the great suggestions.  After looking at hundreds of fonts,
    we still find ourselves enamored with Garamond and, though it might not be the
    final book font, would like a copy for general house use.  \r\n\r\nWe were looking
    at the Adobe Linotype family on myfonts.com http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/adobe-garamond/\r\nbecause
    it's got all kinds of great extras including swashes, small caps, and titling
    that I'm not seeing in other Garamond families on various sites.  Can anyone tell
    me if there's a downside to purchasing this version or if there's a better family
    that has these features?  It's a really big investment for our little company
    and I want to get it right. \r\n\r\n(I'm also considering buying the web font
    so we can use it on our website, but I think perhaps Wordpress might already include
    a Garamond). Thoughts?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-09-11 01:32:53'
- author:
    name: badmonkeyart
    picture: 127661
  body: "donshottype:  Thank you for the very thoughtful explanation of 19th century
    style.  By the way, I really like those swashes and ornaments for Plantagenet
    (the swashes might be perfect for our drop caps) but when I select these on myfonts.com
    it says they're not authorized to sell them and I couldn't find them on the Tiro
    site.  Any idea what's going on here?\r\n\r\nGrubStreet:  Love those Cloister
    initials and have added them to my album for future projects.  Thanks."
  children:
  - author:
      name: grubstreet
      picture: 126081
    body: "Adobe Garamond is a great and time-tested face. I personally love it, but
      it may suffer from <em>ubiquity</em>. There are also other serifs around that
      inherit and probably advance Garalde beauty, such as Sabon, Lyon or Verdigris.\r\n\r\nAs
      for extra goodies, I think that most well-done typefaces come with them, like
      extra ligatures and swashes in their opentype features.\r\n\r\nYou may consider
      going with a web font service than buying the font so you would have more leeway
      once you want to change the typeface. Typekit and FontDeck both support opentype
      features for big faces like Adobe Garamond."
    created: '2014-09-11 02:21:50'
  created: '2014-09-11 01:48:19'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "I agree it's really frustrating when a font is offered and then you find
    out that some features you like are not actually available. I have no idea what
    went wrong here. All you could do is try and contact the font authors. The Trio
    people are good font-makers but their business model is poor. Plantagenet would
    have been my first choice for this type of book -- very friendly, very legible
    -- but life is too short to have to jump through unnecessary hoops to get it the
    features you thought were available, but are not.\r\nDon\r\n"
  created: '2014-09-11 02:33:19'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: The font Plantagenet Cherokee contains no swashes; all its glyphs have a unicode
    code point; I would personally not use its Cherokee syllabary http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cherokee_syllabary
    as  swashes. The font comes installed on OS X. It seems to me that you can get
    it from Tiro at the url http://www.tiro.com/Plantagenet/plantagenet_cherokee_purchase.html
  created: '2014-09-11 03:09:59'
- author:
    name: badmonkeyart
    picture: 127661
  body: "Yes, donshottype, I'll try to contact Trio tomorrow as I do like those swashes.
    \ \r\n\r\nThanks Grubstreet for the online recommendation.  I'm looking at typekit
    and it was useful for comparing Garamond Pro to Premier (I find the Premier a
    little heavy and it might tend to plug up when we have to go to the really small
    sizes for the Mouse's Tail poem).  I might have to subscribe in order to find
    all the fonts on my short list.  I didn't see Centaur or Bembo etc.  I may be
    missing something, but not all of the fonts I've looked at on myfonts.com have
    offered titling fonts or smallcaps, and few have had Swash options.  Those were
    pretty big selling points for the Linotype (Slimbach) version of Garamond."
  created: '2014-09-11 03:53:12'
- author:
    name: nicolacaleffi
    picture: 126385
  body: "Wendy,\r\n\r\nI have an old copy of \"Alice\" by Penguin - from the Fifties
    or Sixties, I believe - beautifully set in Scotch Roman (metal, of course). For
    a contemporary typeface that resembles the late Ninenteenth English century books,
    you could try Eames or Paperback by House Industries, or Hariett by Okay Type.
    By the way, if you're into Adobe Garamond, go with it (I have set many books with
    it): it's a great text face, just be sure to set it in at least 12 points - by
    my own experience, at 11 or less the body text can look very small."
  created: '2014-09-11 11:22:13'
- author:
    name: badmonkeyart
    picture: 127661
  body: "Thanks nocolacaleffi, I did spring for the big Garamond set by Linotype that
    is on myfonts.com.  My own copy of Garamond Pro didn't have the titling, subcaps,
    swash alternates etc. and I do really like them.  This is the original Slimbach
    design, which is different from his new Premier design (which seems a bit heavier).
    \ \r\n\r\nI've been so impressed with all the knowledge in this forum and the
    generosity, and I've now got a wonderful list of fonts for various projects.  Makes
    me want to become a fellow type geek.   I'd like to read some books on typesetting.
    \ Perhaps someone will recommend favorites."
  children:
  - author:
      name: grubstreet
      picture: 126081
    body: "I don\u2019t recall Slimbach has done anything close to Garamond Titling.
      Goudy has titling though.\r\nRegarding typography books, I think I can safely
      declare that Robert Bringhurst\u2019s <em>Elements of Typographic Style</em>
      is a good starter. It covers most aspects related to type, from using type \u2013
      both physical and digital \u2013 to designing type. It also is written in a
      beautiful yet complex way thanks to the author\u2019s literary background.\r\nFor
      a more detailed investigation on how type works on screen and on physical print,
      I recommend Tim Ahrens and Shoko Mugikura\u2019s <em>Size-specific Adjustments
      on Type Designs</em>. The book is Ahrens\u2019s Master\u2019s Thesis at uReading
      where he attempts to basically resolve why some beautiful print typefaces suck
      on screen."
    created: '2014-09-12 05:47:05'
  created: '2014-09-11 20:09:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Shameless plug for my own Dez Petranian.\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/dezcom/dez-petranian/"
  created: '2014-09-11 20:38:55'
- author:
    name: nicolacaleffi
    picture: 126385
  body: "Adobe Garamond Pro doesn't feature neither a swashes set, nor different specific
    size cuts (subhead, display etc). But there is a \"titling capitals\" set, which
    is available in the glyphs panel in Indesign: it features only the uppercase letters
    and lining numbers - see this pdf from Adobe, pages 10 and 30:\r\n\r\nwww.adobe.com/type/browser/pdfs/AdobeGaramondPro.pdf\r\n\r\nIf
    you're after a Reinassance serif with a full set of swashes, check Hoefler Text,
    less delicate than Slimbach's Garamond:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typography.com/fonts/hoefler-text/styles/\r\n\r\nAnd
    a couple of necessary readings (besides Bringhurst):\r\n- Jan Tshcichold, The
    Form of the Book\r\n- Jost Hochuli, Designing Books"
  created: '2014-09-12 10:12:53'
- author:
    name: oobimichael
    picture: 126015
  body: "@badmonkeyart... Interesting project... I thought it might helpful to put
    together a small sampling of specimens to illustrate the various \"voices\" that
    typefaces demonstrate. Sometimes, I have to go through several dozen samples,
    but the PDF link below simply provides a handful to start with. I've attempted
    to assemble type samples from very different genres, just to get the creative
    juices flowing. I presently do not have access to a printer (traveling), so I
    am not sure how this actually prints. I have not paid specific attention to details
    such as tracking (@hrant... please don't have a heart attack :) )\r\n\r\nThe body
    text types I have used:\r\nDutch Mediaeval\r\nJannon Antiqua\r\nLTC Goudy Oldstyle\r\nMeister
    Antiqua\r\nNeviaBT\r\nPlantin Infant MT\r\nSatyr\r\nScotchMicro\r\nWalbaum_Storm\r\n\r\nIf
    it would be helpful, I can upload the InDesign template, so you and others can
    demo other types...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mediafire.com/view/yd9tqcyuztsvpp0/AliceWonderland_SpecimenSamples_Combined.pdf\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Alice_closeup_5914.png]"
  created: '2014-09-12 14:27:39'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Another option for the dropcaps: the whimsical Ambicase Modern/Fatface (make
    sure to check out the swashes!).\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/foundry/Teeline_Fonts/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-09-12 15:15:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Can\u2019t top Tenniel and Scotch.\r\nhttp://unews.utah.edu/wp-content/uploads/White-Rabbit.jpg"
  created: '2014-09-12 16:18:33'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "Michael, impressive demo. Helps focus consideration of options.\r\nNick,
    yes, when I downsided my paper library, this was one of the few books I kept.\r\nDon"
  created: '2014-09-13 00:55:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Tenniel\u2019s illustrations, and the Dalziel\u2019s woodcuts, have a quality
    of line which is very similar to that of the Scotch. Both type and illustration
    were printed relief, into the paper, with the impressions being made from media
    that were sculpted by hand\u2014all very tactile.\r\n\r\nA photo process re-sized
    reproduction of a painting, and type from a scale-less digital outline (a picture
    of type, as Gill would have observed), related only by being printed offset, are
    a different kettle of \uFB01sh."
  created: '2014-09-13 07:17:38'
date: '2014-09-06 12:49:24'
node_type: forum
title: Recommended font for "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland?"

---
