---
author:
  name: DrDoc
  picture: 114000
body: "https://medium.com/re-form/a-refutation-of-the-elements-of-typographic-style-3b18c07977f3\r\n\r\nSam
  Potts wrote a (pretty excellent) takedown of <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em>,
  which attacks, among other things, the book's polemical nature, outdated conventions,
  and confused sense of purpose.\r\n\r\nHere's a key paragraph:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>ETS\u2019s
  position on typography after all isn\u2019t so different from saying the best movies
  were made in the 40s in Hollywood and so we, today, should be making black and white
  movies to uphold the tradition. Imagine a filmmaking manual that argued for this.
  Should we emulate Renaissance typography any more than we emulate its forms of dress
  or cuisine, its painting or music or speech?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI'm inclined to
  agree. I read Bringhurst before going to design school, and I spent design school
  unlearning it. Typography is necessarily an evolving medium \u2014 just as painting
  and language are. The first chapter speaks about typography in broad, almost romantic
  terms \u2014 \"Letters have a life and dignity of their own\", \"There is a style
  beyond style\" \u2014 but the rest of the book tells us exactly how to interpret
  those broader ideas, and ends up restricting the expressive potential of typography.\r\n\r\nWhat
  are your thoughts?"
comments:
- author:
    name: kthomps5
  body: "Mark Simonson referenced the same article in a similar discussion here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/119680"
  created: '2014-09-24 16:16:15'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Hrant Papazian has commented here that the calligraphic tradition has too
    strong a hold on type design, so he may have some sympathies with the viewpoint.\r\n\r\nMy
    view is that we should not dismiss alternate ways of designing type out of hand,
    but we also should not disparage the living tradition from Jenson onwards, as
    it is a fruitful source of type designs that are effective and appealing.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    it is demonstrably false that the exploration of the non-calligraphic in type
    design has not yet begun. Bifur, Neuland, Peignot, Eurostile... it is true that
    the design of <em>text</em> typefaces is very conservative, but that is to be
    expected. And even there, we have Optima as one example of a design that is non-calligraphic
    in its strokes, even if its proportions are modelled on classic letterforms."
  created: '2014-09-24 21:25:17'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: 'The first rule of graphic design is "Graphic design has no rules" - this
    then also applies to typography - that said the, Bringhurst is  not stating hard
    and fast rules but pointing up what is "accepted and standard", Beyond that if
    you do not have your own eye for what works, good luck,  creating  good typographic  work
    is not following the "rules" but following a good eye. '
  created: '2014-09-25 01:51:16'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: I think <a href="http://typographica.org/typography-books/the-elements-of-typographic-style-4th-edition/">Maurice
    Meilleur's Typographica review</a> from last year is fairer and more incisive.
  created: '2014-09-25 02:16:31'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "TEoTS is a flawed book that comments on a very small piece of the typographic
    universe and believes it extrapolates its commentary to the entire field. I have
    never seen any advice on advertising or editorial typography in this tome. I've
    heard the author speak several times, and remain unimpressed. His lectures contain
    lots of complaining about this and that and as someone once described him, \"My,
    he seems to be impressed with the sound of his own voice.\"\r\n\r\nOnce the the
    holidays are passed I'm sure Bill Berkson will come to the author's defense. He
    always does. Is typographic bible the correct term Bill? Or perhaps the typographic
    Torah."
  created: '2014-09-25 03:29:57'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Sounds like <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em> is the masterwork
    it was acknowledged to be, <strong>but</strong> one that has to be taken with
    a grain of salt. It is a rich mine of information, but it does not set the bounds
    for all that can be done in typography.\r\n\r\nA lot of classic reference works
    are like that, because time marches on.\r\n\r\nSo, instead of criticizing the
    book itself, I would criticize its misuse, I would criticize professors who teach
    from it presenting it as dogma."
  created: '2014-09-25 04:24:11'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<blockquote>Typography is necessarily an evolving medium \u2014 just as painting
    and language are.  ...</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI disagree.\r\n\r\nAs in other fields,
    there are standards and conventions for generally accepted \"good\" typography,
    evolving or not. Web typography, for example, should be 'evolved' out of book
    design; yet, it is still (2014) decidedly sub-standard.\r\n\r\nAlso, as in other
    fields, there are accepted ways to \"break the rules\" <em>as well as</em> a plethora
    of reasons <em>not</em> to. Sticking religiously to Bringhurst's rules will not
    make you a bad typographer; subverting or inverting as many as you can <em>will</em>
    -- unless you are an exceptionally gifted artist."
  created: '2014-09-25 09:19:02'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "There are lots of ways to saw a piece of wood. And for every tool there is
    a \u2018correct\u2019 way. I prefer Japanese saws, but also use a Festool TS55.
    So sue me\u2026"
  created: '2014-09-25 20:23:40'
- author:
    name: PJay
    picture: 109541
  body: 'Have ''The Elements of Typographic Style''  2.4 and 3.0, hadn''t kept up
    with the incremental releases beyond that point (though I suppose I could binge-read
    them ). I will get 4.0 because I do enjoy reading Robert Bringhurst, and besides,
    have to see what happens in the latest episode. '
  created: '2014-09-26 22:35:07'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "I\u2019ll take up Potts\u2019s points in order.\r\n\r\nBringhurst serves
    as author, editor, and designer, and the work suffers from lack of oversight from
    a real editor as well as a copyeditor. Potts does not mention this, but the book
    is full of typos. Things that spell-check would catch. Bringhurst apparently compiles
    his own index, and in some cases has failed to update it to reflect changes to
    the text in the newest version. (The index tells you you'll find W.B. Yeats on
    189, which is no longer true.) And of course the editorial structure of the book
    is, and always has been, a little strange. I do agree that a trained nonfiction
    editor could do wonders for the structure and general clarify of the book.\r\n\r\nI
    also agree that Bringhurst wrongly puts authorial and editorial decisions in the
    typographer's hands. Certainly no book designer in the real world (as opposed
    to Bringhurst's pleasantly self-sufficient one-man operation) ever got away with
    changing all the dialogue markers from quotes to em dashes. If he is going to
    argue for a specific editorial style, he might at least point out that he is discussing
    editorial, not strictly typographic, matters.\r\n\r\nI would also like to note
    that Potts\u2019s discussion of the complexity of choosing type is largely spot-on.
    Of course this journey depends on more than static historical and cultural associations.
    And of course designers can redefine the connotation of a face by using it in
    a new way. But this idea is not foreign to Bringhurst. \u201CBooks that leap historical
    boundaries and mix historical subjects can pose complex and exciting typographic
    problems\u201D (6.3.2, p 99).\r\n\r\nNow to where I diverge with Potts, which
    frankly is on most of his very well written essay. I\u2019ll address a few points
    in Potts\u2019s order:\r\n\r\nI don't know where Potts gets the idea that ETS
    is a book that \"everyone owns but few have read.\" Prove it! I have read the
    book straight through, including all the appendixes and the daunting chapter on
    page proportions, many times, in at least three editions. It's hard to imagine
    that the many typographers who love this book and continually recommend it are
    not, in fact, extremely familiar with its contents. I have several bookshelves
    full of works on typography, recent and not so recent. I return to none of them
    as often as I do ETS, simply because as far as I know there is no other book that
    is up to Bringhurst\u2019s standards of scholarship, discernment, and sophistication.\r\n\r\nPotts
    asks if ETS is meant to be \u201Ca proper style guide somewhere on the Elements
    of Style \u2013 Chicago Manual spectrum.\u201D The Elements of Style is not a
    style guide at all in the sense that CMS is. Strunk & White is a book of guidelines
    for writers \u2014 journalists, actually. CMS is a true editorial style guide,
    and better compared with the New York Times or Oxford style guides. CMS, however,
    certainly has its moments of typographic stupidity and ignorance. The editors
    of CMS know a lot less about typography than Bringhurst does.\r\n\r\nI do not
    disagree with Potts\u2019s categorization of Bringhursts\u2019s editorial advice
    as non-standard and ill-advised. Actually I found it amusingly accurate. However,
    Potts says, \u201CETS promotes nonstandard, antiquated, and otherwise ill-advised
    techniques that are out of place [\u2026] in mainstream American book and magazine
    publishing.\u201D Bringhurst isn\u2019t American. It\u2019s not at all clear to
    me that he even intends to be writing for a primarily American audience. Much
    of his advice that seems bizarre to us \u2014 spaced en dashes; dashes for dialogue;
    etc \u2014 is the standard style in Canada, Britain, and elsewhere in Europe and
    beyond. The long em dashes are an American thing (a Chicago thing, actually).
    We\u2019re the odd ones out, and since the book isn\u2019t for us specifically,
    accusing Bringhurst of being ignorant of American style kind of misses the point.\r\n\r\nOne
    more note: no typographer would use \u201CFind & Replace\u201D to implement Bringhurst\u2019s
    advice about borrowing characters from other fonts. The standard way in InDesign
    would be with GREP styles, or by copying the characters into the actual font file.\r\n\r\nAnd
    now, the \u201Cpurple prose.\u201D Let\u2019s get one thing straight: Bringhurst
    is first and foremost a poet. His poetry has received many awards and honors.
    Check his Wikipedia page and see the list of previous publications at the front
    of ETS. He is a tremendously skilled writer, a wonderful counterexample (sadly,
    one of very few) to the stereotype that designers can\u2019t write. Does he overdo
    it sometimes? Yes. However, there are sections of ETS that beg to be reread simply
    for the subtle beauty with which Bringhurst expresses an uncommon idea. E.g.:\r\n\r\n\u201CSome
    observers are dismayed and some excited by the complexity of the equipment most
    typographers now use. Some are excited and others unnerved by the power of that
    equipment and its evident ease of operation. Yet inside of that complexity, typography
    persist as what it is: the making of meaningful, durable, abstract, visible signs.
    When the system crashes, the craft, its purposes, its values and all its possibilities
    remain\u201D (9.6.2, p 197). This passage is made all the more poignant by its
    placement at the close of a chapter about technology. What he leaves us with is
    a reminder that it\u2019s not about the technology.\r\n\r\n(As a side note, the
    discussion of font formats in ETS 4.0 got decidedly more muddled compared to previous
    editions. Bringhurst seems to be making an attempt to be more pedantically precise,
    at the expense of conceptual clarity.)\r\n\r\n\u201CTypography doesn\u2019t need
    this kind of dressing up,\u201D says Potts, referring to Bringhurst\u2019s prose
    style. \u201CTypography is already an inherently noble pursuit.\u201D Um, sure,
    but Bringhurst\u2019s readers, for whom this may be their first introduction to
    typography, will not know that yet. If he is aiming to teach (and I do believe
    he is; I find the book to be very generous and warm, not in the least a \u201Cpolemic\u201D),
    then why shouldn\u2019t he point out what is already obvious to the experts? His
    readers are not experts yet.\r\n\r\n\u201CI certainly recognize that Robert Bringhurst
    may assert whatever taste he prefers\u201D says Potts. And he is in good company.
    The original Elements of Style was largely a collection of William Strunk\u2019s
    personal bugbears and highly questionable advice \u2014 much of which he ignores
    himself. As discussed above, neither book is meant to be a \u201Cstyle guide\u201D
    the way that CMS is. Which is to say, neither book was ever meant to be neutral.
    If the author had no point of view, what would the book be contributing to the
    field? (And Bringhurst\u2019s sometimes questionable outbreaks of opinion are
    nothing compared to those in, say, anything by Gerrit Noordzij. They remind us
    that we\u2019re learning from a real human being.)\r\n\r\nAt this point I\u2019d
    like to ask Sam Potts what book he would recommend as an introduction to typography.\r\n\r\nBecause
    there are topics that Bringhurst covers that no other contemporary introductory
    typography text even touches on:\r\n\r\n1. Bringhurst\u2019s brilliant argument
    for the importance of diacritics as a gesture of cross-cultural acceptance and
    diversity (5.5.1). And the corresponding index of characters \u2014 a tremendously
    useful reference unlike anything in any other typography book (short of The Unicode
    Standard, which is obviously [a] not an introductory text and [b] devoid of any
    useful information on the characters contained therein).\r\n\r\n2. The exhaustively
    researched second half of the book, including the type specimens and appendixes
    of type designers and foundries.\r\n\r\n3. Chapter 8. Isn\u2019t it amazing the
    number of typography textbooks that don\u2019t even mention this most important
    aspect of laying out any work of typography? (And if, as Bringhurst acknowledges,
    budget often prevents designers from being able to choose arbitrary page sizes,
    so what? Isn\u2019t it nice to be reminded of what we could be striving for, rather
    than having the less-than-satisfactory limits on our creativity enforced by a
    style book?)\r\n\r\n4. The many discussions of multilingual typography. Again,
    find me another basic typography text that addresses concerns associated with
    mixing alphabets on the same line. Chicago in particular does nothing to help,
    mixing completely incompatible typefaces in its samples of multilingual typography.\r\n\r\n5.
    Bringhurst\u2019s type classifications by art movements is the only system for
    understanding typographic history that makes any sense to me, and is at all compatible
    with broader understandings of art and craft history. I cannot take any book seriously
    that calls Jenson \u201Cold style\u201D and stops there. Old compared to what?
    It\u2019s not old compared to Trajan. The oft-used taxonomy is too coarse, and
    the names too arbitrary, to be useful. Bringhurst manages to shed some much-needed
    light here.\r\n\r\nLastly, Mr. Potts objects to Bringhurst presenting typography
    as a moral concern. Go Bringhurst. If you don\u2019t care about your craft, if
    you don\u2019t think that you\u2019re making the world a little better, a little
    more beautiful, by doing what you do, then why are you doing it? Wouldn't we all
    like to be so confident in the morality of our craft.\r\n\r\n(A note on a note:
    Bringhurst would not object to the abbreviation ETS. He uses it himself, on the
    spine of the paperback edition.)"
  created: '2014-09-27 05:44:59'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "With thanks to Craig for mentioning my review, I'll admit my views have shifted
    closer to Potts's since I wrote it. That's not to say I wouldn't still recommend
    reading ETS, just that I'm seeing more parallels between Bringhurst's book and,
    to pick a notable example, Jan Tschichold's views on typography than I did in
    the past. It's not so much that ETS is a polemic, but rather that, on further
    reflection, I think Bringhurst doesn't distinguish between recognizing the moral/ethical
    significance of good design, on the one hand, and moralizing, on the other. Noordzij,
    whatever else you want to say about him, doesn't demand to be believed, only taken
    seriously (as he said in the first issue of <em>Letterletter</em>, the Hartley
    & Marks anthology of which is coincidentally introduced by none other than Bringhurst).
    Bringhurst, like Tschichold, is less generous a critic. And the arguments you
    can have with him are less illuminating than the ones you can have with Noordzij.
    Wouldn't you rather argue over when the word was invented than over whether you
    should insert hair spaces around an em dash or not?\r\n\r\nOn the other hand,
    I do rather like Bringhurst's metaphor of starving horses milling in a field.
    And more substantively, it was exciting to read his book when I was getting started
    as a designer, because it was great to see someone taking something that I loved
    seriously. But I'm not sure it helped me as much as reading, say, Erik Spiekermann
    or Jan Middendorp or Hans Peter Willberg & Friedrich Forsmann would have done
    at the time, and I'm glad I did encounter them after. And I will never assign
    Bringhurst to my students in an intro type class; better to give them Middendorp's
    <em>Shaping Text</em>, Spiekermann's <em>Stop Stealing Sheep</em>, Cyrus Highsmith's
    book on microtypography, and maybe Felici. If I'm ever fortunate enough to teach
    in a program that offers a typography seminar & practicum--probably for grad students--I'd
    assign Bringhurst along with Tschichold, Aicher, Schmid, Ruder, Noordzij, and
    Gerstner. And I'd recommend people read Bringhurst's essays on writing, like <em>The
    Solid Form of Language</em>, <em>The Tree of Meaning</em>, and <em>Everywhere
    Being is Dancing</em>.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, maybe I'm just mad that four
    editions in, Bringhurst still doesn't think Arnhem merits inclusion in his favorites
    list. :)"
  created: '2014-09-27 22:56:27'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Standard style in Britain differs markedly from that in the U.S., and certain
    other Commonwealth countries, such as Australia and New Zealand, likely approximate
    British style. However, Canada is heavily influenced by the U.S.; while some aspects
    of British style may still be an option, a publisher here is less likely to raise
    eyebrows if he follows U.S. rather than British style.
  created: '2014-09-27 23:26:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Oh my, I see above that very accomplished Mr. Montalbano thinks I will defend
    <em>Elements of Typographic Style</em> as the whole Bible or at least the five
    books of Moses. Not actually. As I wrote long ago in a review on Typophile.com\u2014I
    think that feature has been dropped\u2014I think the book is an excellent discussion
    of classic book typography. (I haven't looked at it since the second edition,
    so I can't comment on later ones.) However, a lot of typography is not book typography,
    including magazines and advertising and posters and on line typography etc., signage,
    etc., and these have different demands and call for different approaches. \r\n\r\nBooks
    have distinctive demands. For a start, they stay around for a long time, and stuff
    that looks fresh and delightful this month may look bad in five years. If it's
    a magazine, doing something wild and crazy might be very good, depending on its
    audience. But in a book such fun and games would look forced and tiresome. Also
    books generally are very text-heavy, with less illustration and display, and that
    generally calls for a quieter style. Because of these factors\u2014text heavy
    and long lasting on library and home shelves\u2014book typography tends toward
    the classic and conservative in style of interior design. My main beef with Elements
    is that it doesn't make clear that classic book typography is often out of place
    in other contexts. Also Bringhurst admittedly does take himself too seriously.
    But he is brilliant, insightful and sensitive. And the elements of making a readable
    text block and page do transfer to a lot of other contexts. So I suspect it's
    still a very valuable book\u2014but holy writ, no. \r\n\r\nI wrote that review
    long ago, and have since read <em>Book Typography: A Designer's Manual</em> by
    Mitchell and Wightman (2005), which I think is even better as a guide to classic
    book typography. It has the advantage of a clear focus, and goes into issues on
    books in particular that Bringhurst didn't, at least in earlier editions.  \r\n\r\nI
    haven't looked at other recent competing books, such as Lupton's and Mittendorf's
    and Highsmith's, so I can't comment on those. For an example of something with
    a completely different approach, I am now reading another classic, <em>Thoughts
    on Design</em> by Paul Rand. Its emphasis is advertising and corporate identity,
    and is brilliant, but has almost nothing in common with Elements. But to me they
    don't contradict as they are about typography with every different purposes.  I
    think Sam Potts' review is marred by not \"getting\" that Bringhurst is talking
    about a kind of typography that does have its place, even though its classic taste
    and approach is misplaced elsewhere. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n   "
  created: '2014-09-28 04:03:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don\u2019t think Potts\u2019 comparison with old Hollywood is apt.\r\n\r\nThing
    is, if you want to understand why typography is \u201Chard-wired\u201D the way
    it is\u2014and by that I mean the way that state-of-the-art high-tech font glyphs
    are designed for OpenType features that are standardized and implemented in the
    relationship between fonts and layout applications\u2014then you have to understand
    classic typography, as explained by Bringhurst.\r\n\r\nIf this old stuff weren\u2019t
    still relevant, new fonts wouldn\u2019t have all the OpenType bells and whistles
    they do.\r\nOr are we just providing stuff almost nobody needs?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-09-29 05:00:31'
- author:
    name: grubstreet
    picture: 126081
  body: "Potts has obviously missed the point. The moral concern shows how desperate
    he is to try to find a target to attack. As for the \u201Cunleash the power/don\u2019t
    be restricted by tradition\u201D talk, I think it\u2019s already been resolved
    from within the \u201Cappropriate use\u201D argument."
  created: '2014-09-29 05:17:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\u201CThe first rule of graphic design is \"Graphic design has no rules\"
    - this then also applies to typography\u201D\r\n\r\nGo have fun with that. But
    I think it is a small minority of typographers who would agree with you.\r\n\r\nMostly,
    I concur with Joshua, Maurice, William and Nick above.\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-01 01:04:59'
- author:
    name: sampotts
    picture: 109639
  body: "Just want to chime in here to thank you all for responding to my piece on
    Medium. I'm very much obliged and your comments are all of interest. Joshua, you're
    a heavyweight champ! This is very much the kind of critical reading that I hoped
    to apply to ETS itself. All fair points made.\r\n\r\nI wrote the first draft of
    this piece about 3 years ago and it was twice as long (bulked out by a lot more
    citations) and I daresay four times more pedantic. In its current form it still
    makes the fundamental points about what I see as weaknesses in the book, but perhaps
    fails to frame fully why these weaknesses work so fundamentally against the whole
    purpose of the book. Such is the process of punching stuff up.\r\n\r\nAll I would
    like to add, without debating any points made above, is that I made every effort
    to provide textual basis for each critique. The starting point for each critique
    is there on the page. Which is of course where all this type business begins.\r\n\r\nThanks
    very much. This is really great."
  children:
  - author:
      name: grubstreet
      picture: 126081
    body: I disagree with you to the every fibre of this article, but I do appreciate
      your effort in grounding your arguments in the text.
    created: '2014-10-01 06:34:40'
  created: '2014-10-01 02:41:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Ditto!\r\n\r\nSam, you\u2019ve achieved something pretty notable, provoking
    a thoughtful discussion about the merits and flaws of one of typography\u2019s
    most sacred texts. \r\n\r\nI don\u2019t agree with all your points, but I think
    your critique is eminently worthy of discussion. I wouldn't have tweeted a link
    to it otherwise!"
  created: '2014-10-01 20:01:45'
- author:
    name: tmac
    picture: 117522
  body: "As an aside, I rode my bicycle all over Quadra Island looking for Mr Bringhurst.
    It\u2019s a beautiful little island between Discovery Passage and Desolation sound.
    I did not find him. \r\n\r\nI asked for him at Smokey\u2019s Bike Shop. I said,
    \u201CHe\u2019s a typographic wizard, likely hiding behind a curtain.\u201D The
    bike mechanic responded: \u201CBut it\u2019s Quadra Island. There are wizards
    behind every curtain.\u201D"
  created: '2014-10-01 22:17:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Although not qualified to comment on anything but the simplest level on this
    controversy, I finally looked at Sam Potts' piece.\r\n\r\nThe fact that the first
    edition of Bringhurst's book came out in 1992 (as opposed to, say, 1950) already
    makes me less indulgent towards its focus on classic book typography - if it didn't
    inform the reader that it was specialized. A book written when advertising typography
    was not yet taken seriously might be expected to have such a focus without the
    author thinking of it as specialized.\r\n\r\nThe example of \"cycling = Italian\"
    sounded funny indeed, but things may not be as bad as all that - if all contemporary
    Italian type designs, even oldstyle and transitional ones, were somehow influenced
    by Bodoni, then they might be lean in some sense. No, that's still pretty bad.\r\n\r\nBut
    then Sam Potts provides an example of his own to refute Bringhurst.\r\n\r\nBut
    here I found his logic flawed. People picking up an English translation of <em>Madame
    Bovary</em> do so to connect with Flaubert, despite their lack of facility with
    the French language; they are not trying to connect with the translator, however
    famous Lydia Davis may be.\r\n\r\n(Two books I am familiar with - <em>On the Sensations
    of Tone</em>, and <em>Intelligent Life in the Universe</em> do add something in
    their English translations - the first because the translator put in lengthy and
    very informative footnotes, the second because it combines a translation of Shklovskii's
    book with entertaining text by Carl Sagan. But this is the exception, not the
    rule.)\r\n\r\nThe central point of the essay seems to be that the historical context
    of typefaces ought to be unlearned - we should see typefaces afresh when seeking
    to employ them, rather than having their previous historical context as a straitjacket
    - and Bringhurst advocates the opposite, to a ridiculous degree.\r\n\r\nThat sounds
    sensible enough. Most readers do not know or care who Aldus Manutilus was - if
    a typographer only uses Bembo where the historical associations are right, he
    is doing so to impress his fellow typographers with his ability to avoid solecisms,
    rather than serving his clients.\r\n\r\nAn introductory book about typefaces,
    of course, though, will teach its readers about all this historical baggage, with
    photos of pages from the <em>Hypnerotomachia Poliphilli</em> and Caslon's specimen
    sheet, and they'll tell us about the historical contexts of Futura and Helvetica
    as well. The mercantile era that gave rise to Century Expanded and Franklin Gothic,
    though, may get relatively short shrift, even if, hopefully, Goudy will get a
    positive mention. So Bringhurst fell victim to the temptation to tell the students
    that all this information they've been taught, because the teachers could think
    of nothing else to fill their textbooks with, is actually useful!\r\n\r\nAt least,
    that's one way to look at it.\r\n\r\nThe fact that the book is currently in its
    fourth edition didn't impress me favorably either. What does he think it is: <em>Computer
    Architecture: a Quantitative Approach</em>? But I suppose writers of textbooks
    for Arts subjects have to eat too, so they have to keep the students away from
    the used book market - and while science and technology march on, fashions change
    quickly as well, even if typefaces are more conservative than hemlines.\r\n\r\nBut
    in his post, Sam Potts says that his original critique was that Bringhurst's book
    specifically fails at fulfilling its (stated?) purpose.\r\n\r\nIf, indeed, it's
    as bad as he says it is - offering no substantive advice for choosing a typeface
    other than hoary clich\xE9s and stereotypes - then it would be hard for me to
    disagree. I will have to take a look at Bringhurst's book to see how true that
    is; I suspect that if it <strong>were</strong> <em>that</em> bad, it would never
    have acquired the reputation and even mystique that it (apparently) now enjoys.\r\n\r\nWhere
    I disagree with the critique, though, is that while one may attempt to view a
    typeface with fresh eyes, one may <em>fail</em> in that attempt. One may not,
    upon one's first look, see everything about the typeface that will determine its
    effect on even the typographically na\xEFve reader. And so what other people with
    typographical expertise have, through their experience with a given typeface,
    and their knowledge of its nuances, <em>and of the intent of the typeface's designer
    and the historical context in which it arose</em>, come to know of the totality
    of a typeface's mood and impact... is <em>not</em> without value.\r\n\r\nSo, if
    Bringhurst's book <em>misused</em> the historicist view of type as claimed, the
    critique is valid - but to some extent, the critique also appears to claim that
    the historicist view of type valueless. Even at this point, I can say that this
    is going too far.  "
  created: '2014-10-01 23:38:41'
- author:
    name: Joshua Langman
    picture: 121172
  body: "That's a lovely anecdote. (How do you know the bike mechanic wasn't Bringhurst?)\r\n\r\nAnd
    just to echo others, while clearly I found much to disagree with, I appreciate
    the thoughtfulness of what is quite a well written article."
  created: '2014-10-02 04:05:24'
date: '2014-09-24 15:33:16'
title: Sam Potts' takedown of Bringhurst

---
