---
author:
  name: Joe Pemberton
  picture: 110420
body: I&#39;ve pulled the comments from the PDF thread into this one. <BR> <BR>My
  humble request, if you post here, please remember that  <BR>there are people behind
  the pseudonyms, anonymous or not.
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I think John &#40;Butler&#41; was very smart: he won&#39;t have to change
    his icon when the blessed US &#34;liberates&#34; Syria, and establishes American
    business interests there - did you know there are no McDonalds in Syria?! Poor,
    opressed souls - we must start bombing immediately! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-04-25 21:59:46'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: Hrant said... <BR><i>when the blessed US &#34;liberates&#34; Syria... . there
    are no  <BR>McDonalds in Syria?! Poor, opressed souls - we must  <BR>start bombing
    immediately!</i> <BR> <BR>must you really post this crap, Hrant?
  created: '2003-04-25 22:19:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Hey, at least I&#39;m not anonymous, and I form complete sentences. Oh, and
    I&#39;m not a Yank - that&#39;s the most important thing. Plus I don&#39;t use
    an icon to present my political views UNDERHANDEDLY. <BR> <BR>&#62; The downside
    of Create Outlines is that there is no hinting. <BR> <BR>A bigger problem is that
    -at least for a properly shown text face- the filesize gets huge. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>
  created: '2003-04-25 22:21:53'
- author:
    name: plainclothes
    picture: 110490
  body: Hrant said... <BR><i>Plus I don&#39;t use an icon to present my political
    views  <BR>UNDERHANDEDLY.</i> <BR> <BR>just to flaunt that terribly sexy picture
    of yourself.  <BR> <BR>sorry, all, that&#39;s my last waste-of-space response
    to  <BR>Hrant.
  created: '2003-04-25 22:28:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Hey, like I&#39;ve said, in 34 years that&#39;s my only semi-decent picture.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-04-25 22:32:11'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: '[ Moderator Comment: Due to forum software limitations,  <BR>this post cannot
    be copied and pieced apart to acommodate <BR>the two topics. John, you&#39;re
    encouraged to re-post your  <BR>thoughts on PDFs to the PDF thread.] <BR> <BR>I&#39;d
    have to agree, Mark. I also suspect that most pirated fonts are first stolen from
    their original licensees--an intern at a design firm walking off with a CDR full
    of fonts that the company paid $$$ to license.  <BR>  <BR>There&#39;s one thing
    even better than PDF, though: printed specimens. Most of the more established
    font vendors will send you printed specimens if you ask for them.  <BR>  <BR>...  <BR>  <BR>Hrant,
    I do not understand how changing my icon to reflect my own political position
    is any more &#34;underhanded&#34; than the rest of yooz putting peace signs on
    yours, a trend which I believe was started at the suggestion of one of the moderators.
    Not keen on conflating &#34;peace&#34; with complacency, I was inclined to disagree.
    You seem to be the only person who has a problem with it.   <BR>  <BR>Please,
    if you want to get into this, start a thread dedicated to the War in General Discussions.
    No one is stopping you from doing that. As they say, &#34;anything goes.&#34;
    It would be nice, though, if we could keep this discussion about PDF and not something
    else.'
  created: '2003-04-25 22:45:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; .... <BR>&#62; ... you seem to be the only person ... <BR>&#62; ....
    <BR> <BR>Believe whatever bull allows you to sleep at nights. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-04-25 22:50:56'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: 'John &#40;Butler&#41;, <BR> <BR>While I&#39;ll rant at Hrant with the best
    of them it was you that made the first political statement in this thread - with
    that ridiculous flag. <BR> <BR>I know you&#39;re not stupid, but bombing people
    on the other side of the world who actually pose no risk to you is not liberation,
    it&#39;s aggression. <BR> <BR>Your government, and my own for that matter, couldn&#39;t
    even stick to a line about why they proposed what they eventually did: WMDs, ties
    to al-Queda, axis of evil, freedom for oppressed Iraqis? <BR> <BR>Let&#39;s have
    a look at those WMDs shall we: USA, only country in the world ever to deploy a
    nuclear weapon: did a pretty good job in Vietnam carpet bombing with B-52s and
    deploying chemical weapons &#40;Agent Orange - for which the Vietnamese ae still
    paying dearly 30 years later&#41;. <BR> <BR>World order: oh yeah, dropped out
    of the Kyoto agreement, won&#39;t join the rest of the world in forming an international
    criminal court, big business lobbying against the WHO, won&#39;t pay its UN subscriptions...
    <BR> <BR>War crimes: ignores responsibilities to civilians in occupation of Iraq,
    bombs fcuk out of the infrastructure and awards contracts for reconstruction to
    bidders from the US only, ships 600 alledged combatants off to Guantanamo Bay
    without recourse to law, in contravention of the Geneva Convention &#40;which
    covers guerilla combatants despite what the US thinks&#41;, some of those held
    in Guantanamo Bay are children, under the age of 16, whom the US is so embarrassed
    by that it won&#39;t even give full details of their ages and who will be held
    until hell freezes over - or someone liberates the US from its current tyrannical
    government. <BR> <BR>So, fcuk your flag.'
  created: '2003-04-25 23:36:33'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: Oh, and still enforcing a blockade against Cuba after nearly 50 years &#40;hey,
    you guys don&#39;t bear a grudge do you?&#41; when free trade with Cuba would
    have swept Castro away in a velvet revolution decades ago.
  created: '2003-04-25 23:44:15'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: And fcuk those French too, send that poxy statue of liberty back!
  created: '2003-04-25 23:45:52'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Brilliant idea for a thread. Now if only folks could stay on topic!!!
  created: '2003-04-26 06:45:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>The peace signs are a political statement, yes. But as such they are pretty
    neutral.</i> <BR> <BR>I sure as heck hope they&#39;re not neutral. Peace isn&#39;t
    a likely outcome of wishful thinking. <BR> <BR>I&#39;m opposed to the war for
    specific moral reasons that I suspect differ from those of a lot of other contributors
    to this thread. For me, whether the Iraqi people are better or worse off after
    the war than before is not sufficient reason to either support or oppose the war.
    Likewise, the justifications put forward by Bush and Blair are largely beside
    the point. Similarly, Jacques Chirac may be rightly concerned about US hegemony
    in the Middle East, but that wouldn&#39;t in itself be grounds to oppose the war.
    Quite simply, this war completely fails to conform to the criteria for a <i>just
    war</i> that have been laid down, debated and asserted for some 1,600 years, and
    which I believe provide the only sound moral guidance to the questions of when
    a war is just and how a just war should be fought. It is on these grounds that
    the Pope has spoken out against the war, and I believe his reasoning, and that
    of his theologians, is sound. I&#39;ve read the lectures and essays by some US
    Catholics who attempt to jerry-rig just war philosophy to fit the circumstances,
    but I am unconvinced by their contortions. Ironically, as a fellow Catholic, John
    Butler may have a better appreciation of my opposition to the war than some people
    &#39;on my side&#39;.
  created: '2003-04-27 07:26:42'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: Hey! Where are all my previous posts gone to? <BR> <BR>I hope it&#39;s a technical
    problem and not censorship! <BR> <BR>Matha
  created: '2003-04-27 11:29:48'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: <i>...this war completely fails to conform to the criteria for a just war
    that have been laid down, debated and asserted for some 1,600 years, and which
    I believe provide the only sound moral guidance to the questions of when a war
    is just and how a just war should be fought</i>  <BR>  <BR>But I think the debate
    is over now, John. The illusion that a state can be run morally and that there
    is any such thing as international law has been knocked on the head. The US government
    is in such a powerful position that it can do what it wants.   <BR>  <BR>Despite
    the moral register used by Whitehouse spokesmen, the US government has chosen
    an amoral path. Its actions are based on ethical decisions about the pros and
    cons of whatever it happens to be doing at the time. Opposing the invasion and
    occupation of Iraq &#40;this isn&#39;t a war&#41; with moral arguments is a waste
    of energy.  <BR>  <BR>And I think the Vatican is fully aware of this.   <BR>  <BR>Matha
  created: '2003-04-27 11:49:26'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: <i>Its actions are based on ethical decisions about the pros and cons of whatever
    it happens to be doing at the time</i> <BR> <BR>in other words, they will do whatever
    they think they can get away with and who, I ask you, is in any position to stop
    them?  <BR> <BR>M.
  created: '2003-04-27 13:22:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Not that I necessarily intend to start reposting to this thread, but I&#39;m
    wondering: why are so much of its innards missing? At the least it&#39;s suspicious.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-05-09 21:43:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>Opposing the invasion and occupation of Iraq &#40;this isn&#39;t a war&#41;
    with moral arguments is a waste of energy.</i> <BR> <BR>I disagree, because I
    see the moral argument as the only sound one. The fact is, from purely political
    arguments I could go either way on the Iraq war: hypocrisy and uncertainty of
    motive and evidence exist on both sides. To try to maintain a consistent position
    on purely political grounds is futile, because there is the <i>possibility</i>
    that the other side is more correct or less incorrect. The just war tradition
    provides an ethical framework for looking at any conflict from a non-political
    perspective, which is its enduring strength. Even if it were now discovered that
    Saddam Hussein was hiding a nuclear weapons program in the desert and proof positive
    was found of his intention to sell or give weapons of mass destruction to terrorist
    organisations, the US invasion of Iraq still failed to meet the criteria of a
    just war &#40;<i>ad bello</i> at least; I&#39;m not sure that we have enough information
    to judge US conduct <i>in bello</i>&#41;. The fact that no such evidence is forthcoming
    is certainly convenient for those opposed to the war. but the moral argument stands
    whether such evidence is found or not, because such evidence was not in US possession
    when they launched the war. <BR> <BR>The US has not chosen an &#39;amoral path&#39;:
    the just war tradition and Catholic morality do not provide for amorality. Shooting
    without being able to clearly see what the target is is not amoral, it is immoral.
    Exercising our ability to say that it is immoral, and to explain why it is immoral,
    is never a waste of energy.'
  created: '2003-05-10 03:36:58'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Not bad John <BR> <BR>Can&#39;t imagine the censors will delete it, unless
    they have trouble with ad bello and in bello. Got to watch that kinda stuff around
    here.
  created: '2003-05-10 05:17:34'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: '<i>The US has not chosen an &#39;amoral path&#39;: the just war tradition
    and Catholic morality do not provide for amorality.</i> <BR> <BR>So you are saying
    that the US war machine is operating inside the just war tradition and Catholic
    morality ? Or that you are interpreting events from that particular perspective?
    <BR> <BR>M'
  created: '2003-05-11 16:09:02'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: I think Mr. Hudson is saying that according to &#40;Catholic&#41; Christianity,
    there&#39;s no such thing as an amoral war.  There is just war, and immoral war;
    the US has not made the case for a just war, and their actions are immoral. I
    agree with him completely, and I am impressed by the strong moral stance that
    the Catholic church &#40;and some, but not all, Protestant denominations&#41;
    have taken.  <BR> <BR>If one had no moral standard and judged war simply by &#34;the
    results&#34;, every victor would be right and every tyrant just. <BR> <BR>Paul
  created: '2003-05-11 21:25:49'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: <i>I think Mr. Hudson is saying that according to &#40;Catholic&#41; Christianity,
    there&#39;s no such thing as an amoral war.</i>  <BR> <BR>That&#39;s what I thought.
    But if you&#39;re not a Catholic or a devout Catholic or a Christian, what then?
    What do you call a war that is judged to be evil, good, just, immoral, liberating,
    mercenary etc depending on whatever country or culture or church the spectator
    happens to be in?  <BR> <BR><i>If one had no moral standard and judged war simply
    by &#34;the results&#34;, every victor would be right and every tyrant just.</i>
    <BR> <BR>Every victor <i>is</i> right in his own country and in his own history
    books. And who decides who the tryants are anyway? The Catholic Church? The Chinese
    Government? Jerry Springer?  <BR> <BR>M.
  created: '2003-05-12 00:29:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>That&#39;s what I thought. But if you&#39;re not a Catholic or a devout
    Catholic or a Christian, what then? What do you call a war that is judged to be
    evil, good, just, immoral, liberating, mercenary etc depending on whatever country
    or culture or church the spectator happens to be in?</i> <BR> <BR>The just war
    tradition happens to be have been developed within the context of Catholic ethics,
    beginning with St Augustine, but I think a case could be made by agnostics, people
    of other faiths, and even atheists that the tradition stands outside that context.
    Succinctly, one could say that the just war tradition is necessary for Christians,
    but Christianity is not necessary to the just war tradition. The idea of a just
    war, the <i>ad bello</i> conditions for such a war and the <i>in bello</i> conduct
    during such a war, can be defined independently of specifically Catholic or Christian
    ethics &#40;although orthodox Christians would point out that this is because
    natural law is part of a divinely created order&#41;. The idea that a defensive
    war is just while an aggresive war is not does not require a belief in a deity,
    a saviour, the resurrection, the real presence of the eucharist, or any other
    Catholic doctrine. On the other hand, I do believe that ethics divorced from religion
    have a tendency to become very shaky and may slip into the kind of relativism
    you describe.
  created: '2003-05-12 03:08:02'
- author:
    name: Oscar Morris
    picture: 110308
  body: 'Quote: <BR>&#34;On the other hand, I do believe that ethics divorced from
    religion have a tendency to become very shaky and may slip into the kind of relativism
    you describe.&#34; <BR> <BR>A funny thing about ethics derived from religions
    is that are appeals to moral authorities--gods--which their very existence is
    questionable. Myths aren&#39;t very strong foundations.'
  created: '2003-05-12 06:12:53'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: '[ A few moderator comments ] <BR> <BR>_ Regarding Matha&#39;s post on April
    27th regarding missing posts. As you know, that was the day the forums went down.
    I am not sure what happened to those posts. You&#39;re welcome to re-submit them.
    <BR> <BR>_ Regarding Hrant&#39;s question about this thread asking &#34;why are
    so much of its innards missing?&#34; I&#39;m not sure if you&#39;re referring
    to any specific posts or just the way it reads altogether. Any posts here would
    have &#40;or at least should have&#41; been automatically sent by the system as
    emails to those who subscribe to this thread via email. If you know of any such
    posts, send them to me and I&#39;ll stitch them back into this thread in chronological
    order.  <BR> <BR>If you&#39;re referring to the &#39;cut and paste&#39; nature
    of the first several posts here, I admit this got a little messy trying to move
    these posts from another thread to this one. In hindsight, this may not have been
    the ideal way to handle it--at the time, I couldn&#39;t think of anything better.
    Your suggestions are welcome.  <BR> <BR>_ Regarding censorship. To be clear, we
    have not deleted any posts from this thread. For the record, in the past we have
    only deleted posts that were direct personal attacks toward other individual participants
    in these boards. Our aim is to keep it civil and constructive. <BR> <BR>Aside
    from that, the board software uses a potty-mouth filter that changes most explicit
    words into red bullets. &#40;Except where extremely creative pangrams are involved.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>[ Carry on ]'
  created: '2003-05-12 09:59:45'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;the just war tradition is necessary for Christians <BR> <BR>No.
    <BR>The just war tradition is only necessary for christians who are trying to
    worm out of following the teachings of christ. <BR>Nowhere in the christian bible
    does it say &#39;don&#39;t kill people - oh...unless you can convince yourself
    that its in a just cause&#39; <BR>You have to make a choice: <BR>1.Justify killing
    under certain circumstances <BR>OR <BR>2.Be a christian <BR>You can&#39;t have
    both without also having <BR>3.Hypocrisy <BR>This isn&#39;t meant to be a personal
    attack on anyone - we are all hypocrits in our own ways - but it does further
    our understanding of the world if we recognise a hypocritical philosophical position
    for what it is, which is what we have when christians defend killing as just.'
  created: '2003-05-12 10:40:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I&#39;m not sure if you&#39;re referring to any specific posts <BR>
    <BR>This page is showing 16 messages from the start until April 26, while my mailbox
    shows 55... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-05-12 15:58:27'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: <i>Succinctly, one could say that the just war tradition is necessary for
    Christians, but Christianity is not necessary to the just war tradition.</i>  <BR>
    <BR>This makes a lot of sense. <BR> <BR><i>On the other hand, I do believe that
    ethics divorced from religion have a tendency to become very shaky and may slip
    into the kind of relativism you describe</i> <BR> <BR>I think that this is what
    I was trying &#40;in my awkward way&#41; to say in the first place. But I would
    go further and argue that, in my humble opinion, the practically limitless number
    of religions and interpretations of the same religions possible must lead to the
    same sort of relativism. Ethics not divorced from religion are as relative as
    anything else on this planet. <BR>M. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-05-12 20:47:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>The just war tradition is only necessary for christians who are trying
    to worm out of following the teachings of Christ.</i> <BR> <BR>Absolute, radical
    pacifism has always been an extreme minority position within Christianity, typified
    by, for example, the Quakers. I don&#39;t see any hypocrisy in asserting that
    those who seek and make peace are blessed while at the same time acknowledging
    that it is just to defend oneself or one&#39;s neighbour against violent aggression.
    <BR> <BR>It is possible, of course, to point to all sorts of abuses of the just
    war tradition, i.e. to attempts to justify aggressive wars undertaken for self-serving
    motives, but this does not undermine the legitimacy of the tradition.
  created: '2003-05-12 22:54:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>A funny thing about ethics derived from religions is that are appeals
    to moral authorities--gods--which their very existence is questionable. Myths
    aren&#39;t very strong foundations.</i> <BR> <BR>I can&#39;t speak for other religions,
    but as a Catholic I don&#39;t appeal to a moral authority for ethics. The orthodox
    Catholic teaching has always been that ethics derive from natural law, which is
    the objective character of created reality knowable by the human intellect. This
    objective reality is the creation of God, but direct appeal to God as moral authority
    is not necessary to know what is right or wrong: morality is built into the universe
    and into our own nature.'
  created: '2003-05-12 22:59:08'
date: '2003-04-26 06:10:53'
node_type: forum
title: Archive through May 12, 2003

---
