---
author:
  name: cyberflor
body: "Someone here recommended a font site where readers could \r\ndownload 10,000
  or 20,000 fonts for $20. They said the creator \r\nof each font had approved their
  fonts for download on this site,\r\nthat each font creator received compensation
  for each download. \r\n\r\nI foolishly gave this site my credit card information.
  I was not \r\nable to download anything. I contacted the site for a refund, but\r\nI
  received no response. What a ripoff!\r\n\r\nI am looking for a list of the best
  knockoffs of famous commercial fonts, \r\nespecially for the fonts I list below.
  The US Supreme Court ruled that\r\nfont design cannot be copyrighted. Those who
  create a font, can \r\ntrademark the name of their font name, but they can't copyright
  \r\nthe actual design. Hence, there are many legal knockoffs of standard\r\ncommercial
  fonts. I will pay good money for a list of these knockoffs,\r\nand where to legally
  download them.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft did not license the fonts they used in MS Office.
  \ Ariel is a \r\nknockoff of Helvetica; Segue is a knockoff of Frutiger; Book Antiqua
  \r\nis a knockoff of Palantino. Microsoft did not license any of the fonts \r\nthey
  include in MS Word. \r\n\r\nI think they did pay Hermann Zapf to create Constantia
  which is a\r\nknock-off of his Palantino. \r\n\r\nUS courts ruled font names could
  be trademarked, but their design could \r\nnot legally be copyrighted. European
  courts acknowledge the right of font \r\ncreators to copyright their font. \r\n\r\n\r\n[edited
  by moderator. do not solicit font piracy]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nI am not in business. I
  am not a graphic designer. I am not a desktop\r\npublisher. I am disabled. I receive
  disability. I have no savings.\r\nI have no income aside from $700/month disability
  income.  I own\r\nMS Word 2013 student edition. I am expert in the use of MS Word.\r\n\r\nI
  would like to learn Adobe In-Design. I would be interested in \r\npurchasing an
  old version of Adobe In-design. I can teach myself\r\nanything. \r\n\r\nIf anyone
  would like to help me start I business, or partner with me\r\nin some business,
  that would be great. I have created a few resume \r\ndesigns that job seekers might
  purchase.\r\n\r\nI am a proficient technical writer. I could also possibly work
  as a \r\nparalegal. I think I could earn money working in desktop publishing. \r\n\r\nFind
  me work, and earn a percentage of my income. "
comments:
- author:
    name: cyberflor
  body: "The \"Ultimate Font Download. 10,000 fonts for $20 \r\n\r\nIs this legit?
    | Typophile\r\nwww.typophile.com \u203A Forums \u203A Release\r\nDec 4, 2008 -
    I saw the Ultimate Font Download, 10,000 commercial-licensed free fonts for .....
    Yeah 10,000 fonts for $20, isn't really a bad deal in my opinion, ...\r\n--------------------------------------\r\n\r\nAnd
    here is the URL of the site I was referred to: http://www.ultimatefontdownload.com/\r\n\r\n---------------------------------------\r\n\r\nSo,
    I don't know if this site is part of the scam or not. All I know is paid $20,
    and got nothing for my money. I could not get in touch with anyone at the site.
    If you do a Google search, you will find \"The Ultimate Font Download\" site promoted
    on this site quite often. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-18 03:56:43'
- author:
    name: George Thomas
  body: Your story is full of untruths and so full of holes it's pathetic. Try trolling
    somewhere else.
  children:
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: "Unlike you, I am not perfect. If you think I made a mistake, point it out,
      and support my claims. Just because you claim my message is full of untruths
      does not make it so. \r\n\r\nI am not a troll. But it is pretty clear you are
      an a$$ hole. And a childish one, at that. \r\n\r\nYour reply was nothing but
      a flame, the kind of flame trolls engender. Perhaps you were just projecting
      when you called me a troll. It usually takes one to know one. \r\n\r\nCalling
      other people names is childish. \r\n\r\nClaiming the words of another person
      are untrue without specifying what words you referred to, why you believe the
      words to be untrue, or not providing any support for your position is not constructive.
      Your reply was nothing more than schoolyard insults bullies live for. \r\n\r\n\"You
      are a troll.\" \"Your message was pathetic.\" Etc., etc. Really? Is that the
      best you can do?\r\n\r\nDon't you have anything better to do with  your time?
      Why don't you grow up?"
    created: '2014-10-18 03:49:05'
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: "I am happy to support any claim I made you believe to be untrue. \r\nIf
      there are holes in my first message, I can fill them in if anyone\r\nwishes
      to make a courteous request. On the other hand, I don't\r\nthink you can do
      anything to correct the holes in your head. "
    created: '2014-10-18 04:00:33'
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: "It appears George Thomas was a US Army Officer. He died March 28, 1870.
      \ \r\nSo it appears, you are also an impostor."
    created: '2014-10-18 04:03:34'
  created: '2014-10-17 23:16:42'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/107759">Deja vu</a>
  created: '2014-10-18 04:27:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Please send me the $1000 to continue this conversation.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-18 07:09:09'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "I once bought this pack, as it offered some Larabie fonts I could use, and
    was worth it just for that. I had no problems with the download, have you tried
    to contact people via email?\r\n\r\nI was encouraged by the thread mentioned,
    but the package does contain a lot of rather poor fonts I will never use. But
    then again, what do you expect for 20 bucks?? You get what you pay for most of
    the time!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: 'Have I tried contacting who via email? '
    created: '2014-10-21 06:06:10'
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: 'I paid the $20 and got nothing. Absolutely nothing. '
    created: '2014-10-21 06:31:32'
  created: '2014-10-18 16:21:37'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Cyberflor, I don't think you're trolling.  Ray Larabie  and James Arboghast
    did recommend the Ultimate Font Download site in the [[http://www.typophile.com/node/52360|Is
    this legit?]] thread. I don't know a lot about free fonts, but I doubt you'll
    find knock-offs, or at least legal knockoffs of approximately the same completeness
    and quality as the original, of the typefaces you want. Making a good knockoff
    legally would require too much work and offer too little glory for people to do
    it for free, and doing it commercially probably wouldn't pay now either since
    knockoffs have a bad reputation with designers and good type can be had relatively
    cheaply. \r\n\r\nUntil you can evaluate type confidently for things like spacing
    issues, you might want to avoid free fonts and knockoffs at least for use in extended
    text. A copy of <em>The Elements of Typographic Style</em> could be a good investment,
    if you've not yet read it, since it'll help you use more effectively what you
    already have - including Constantia, which was designed from scratch by John Hudson,
    who is on this forum."
  children:
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: "Thank you for your reply. \r\n\r\nI don't need the same completeness as
      the commercial font.\r\nI was hoping some private designers with time on their
      hands\r\nmight be able produce respectable knock-offs with quality\r\napproaching
      or exceeding the commercial font. \r\n\r\nWe often see free software programs
      that are quite good. Not\r\neveryone is motivated by money and glory. But if
      there are no\r\ndecent knock-offs, then there aren't.\r\n\r\nFonts should be
      sold for non-commercial use at a lower price\r\nthan when they are sold for
      commercial use. \r\n\r\nI don't know why there is not a font package of basic
      fonts for\r\nnon-commercial use. I would pay $500-$1000 for such a package.\r\n\r\nIn
      the meantime, anyone can get any commercial font for free\r\nby going downloading
      it from file-sharing pirate sites. This is \r\nnot something I know how to do
      because I am not into that. I\r\nam close to paying a computer expert to do
      this for me. \r\n\r\nI read many places that Constantia was a Microsoft commissioned
      \r\nknock-off of Palantino. Which do people like more Palantino Linotype,\r\nBook
      Antiqua, or Constantia? \r\n\r\nWhich of these fonts looks most impressive for
      a business letter:\r\nPalantino Linotype, Book Antiqua, Constantia, Baskerville,
      Goudy\r\nOld Style. I use Baskerville, but the difference between these fonts\r\nis
      very hard to discern on my monitor. I am not sure that my printer\r\neven prints
      them differently. Which would you prefer for legal\r\nwork? \r\n\r\nAt one point
      I thought of purchasing an old Adobe software product \r\njust to get their
      fonts. \r\n\r\nThank you for your recommendation. I will purchase  The Elements
      \r\nof Typographic Style when I can afford it. At this point in time, I can't
      \r\nspare one dollar. I don't have working refrigerator. \r\n\r\nYou say a good
      type can be had relatively cheaply now, but the last time\r\nI checked a family
      of single font cost several thousand dollars. I would \r\nreally like to get
      Avenir Next, Mrs. Eaves by Licko, Myriad Pro, \r\nGaramond, Futura and a few
      others. \r\n\r\nI can't see how using these fonts in my personal letters would
      cost the \r\ncreators of these fonts, or their foundries one penny. I created\r\nbusiness
      presentations to try to get investors interested in partnering \r\nwith me.
      \ \r\n\r\nIf I owned a print shop, an advertising company, or a desktop publishing\r\ncompany,
      and I had real income, I have no problem paying the going rate\r\nfor these
      fonts. If I created a font, I would have no problem with anyone\r\nin my situation
      using it for free. I spent my life helping people in need or\r\ndistress for
      free. I made huge personal sacrifices to help humans and \r\nanimals in distress.
      \r\n\r\nWhen I think how many people there are in the world, who would object\r\nto
      the poor benefiting from something that would not cause them any loss,\r\nI
      think to myself that I have been a fool, that sociopaths have a better \r\ngrasp
      of reality than I have. I always thought mankind would advance\r\nwhen humans
      helped each other reach their full potential. But successful\r\npeople overwhelming
      seem to believe the world is a zero-sum game, \r\nthat they lose anytime anyone
      else gets ahead. \r\n\r\nEvery time I read news about some \"senseless\" killing,
      and I recall how\r\nsuccessful humans are by and in large so petty, selfish,
      self-centered,\r\nnarcissistic, and greedy,  I think to myself there is no such
      thing as\r\nsenseless murders. Senseless murderers are no different than most
      \r\nsuccessful human beings. Both sets are comprised of humans who \r\njust
      care about their own welfare, and their own selfish needs. \r\n\r\nWhy should
      impoverished humans give a whit about others, when \r\nothers do not give a
      whit about them. The social contract is built\r\non the principle of \"reciprocity.\"
      I care about you, society cares \r\nabout you, therefore you should respect
      our laws. \r\n\r\nWhen a society does not give a whit about its poor, its needy,
      and\r\nits hungry. When people who are successful can't stand anyone else\r\ngaining,
      even when it costs them nothing, there is no social contract.\r\n\r\nWhat does
      this have to do with fonts and typography? Apparently, \r\nmuch more than meets
      the eye. The \"haves,\" people with land, oil,\r\nmoney, power, fonts want to
      keep their club exclusive. They want\r\nto preserve their privilege, they do
      not wish to share with others,\r\neven if it would cost them nothing to do so.
      \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I have always believed in sharing everything\r\nwith
      everyone. I have always been willing to share my knowledge,\r\nshare my talents,
      share my possessions with anyone and everyone.\r\n\r\nNot everyone in the world
      is motivated by money and glory. Some\r\npeople actually live their life to
      benefit the world and help others.\r\nI don't think most people can imagine
      what kind of world we would\r\nlive in today if there had been fewer self-sacrificing
      humans in our\r\npast, and more humans who just care about their own bottom
      line.\r\n\r\nAll the good we have in our world today is here because of people\r\nlike
      Tesla and Westinghouse, not people like Edison and JP Morgan."
    created: '2014-10-18 16:53:08'
  created: '2014-10-18 16:24:14'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I am a proficient technical writer...\r\n> I think I could earn money working
    in desktop publishing.\r\n\r\nThese are very different professions. If you are
    already a good writer, I'd suggest concentrating on that rather than learning
    desktop publishing, which is a complex skill to learn.  (Unless you mean just
    creating simple documents like resumes. And you don't need InDesign for those,
    Word will work just fine.)\r\n\r\nMany (but certainly not all) copywriter jobs
    are \"clean up\" jobs, where you're given rough copy written by a client and you
    must polish it. It requires a good knowledge of grammar, good organizational skills
    to keep track of revisions and deadlines, good proofreading skills, and good people
    skills so your clients enjoy working with you and send you more jobs. \r\n\r\n>
    I would like to learn Adobe In-Design. \r\n\r\nBe aware that InDesign is a very
    complex program and many of the settings require a good knowledge of typography.
    It's a difficult program to learn.\r\n\r\n> purchasing an old version of Adobe
    In-design.\r\n\r\nUsed copies aren't always easy to find because when a new version
    comes up, folks buy the \"upgrade\" version which requires that you still have
    the old version, and they may keep the old version in case they need to reinstall
    the new version again. And a \"used\" copy might be a pirated version that won't
    operate properly as you must go through a registration process with Adobe."
  children:
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: "I am a proficient writer, and I probably could easily learn desktop publishing
      on my own. I don't think I would find desktop publishing particularly difficult
      to learn. \r\n\r\nI need an editor to clean-up my own work. I don't have the
      grammar skills or the proofreading skills to be an editor. Nor can I polish
      writing the way a good editor can. \r\n\r\nEveryone has different strengths
      and weaknesses. I would not find InDesign a difficult program to learn. I could
      teach it to myself in a relatively short period of time."
    created: '2014-10-21 06:15:32'
  created: '2014-10-18 16:53:23'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: ">the last time I checked a family of single font \r\n> cost several thousand
    dollars. \r\n\r\nVery few fonts cost that much. Go to MyFonts.com and check out
    the prices. \r\n\r\nYou also might check out MightyDeals.com.  At their site click
    \"All Deals\" and on the next page click \"Fonts\". The font selection changes
    as offers are for a limited time. I've purchased several font families from them.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: Thank you very, very much for the tip.
    created: '2014-10-18 19:53:55'
  created: '2014-10-18 17:06:22'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: "There is a difference between being motivated in making the biggest amount
    of money and in making a decent living for yourself. I don't think typedesign
    is a business where people become millionaires (unless they focus solely on the
    business side of things, instead on the creative side.)\r\n\r\nYou wish to have
    designers to make decent looking versions of classic fonts, well then you just
    need to have a look at MyFonts. All popular fonts, like Helvetica, Proxima, Gotham,
    Meta etc. inspire a lot of type designers in creating their version of this particular
    style. Some are better than others, some stay close to the original, some are
    more adventurous. These are not ripoffs most of the time, but often they do cost
    considerably less than the classics. Just check out the MyFonts special offers:
    many newly offered font families are offered at steep discounts ranging from 50
    to 90 %, so you might snap up a family for 20 dollars or something."
  children:
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: "I am not a typographer, and do not have the ability to judge subtle differences
      between fonts. Obviously, I can tell the difference between \"Comic\" and \"Times
      Roman.\" But I really have a hard time telling the difference between Palantino,
      Book Antiqua, and Constantia.\r\n\r\nI have zero training in this field. I am
      not a graphic designer or a typographer. I have zero ability to judge fonts
      that are similar to each other. I can't judge spacing, character width, or any
      of the variations that differentiate one serif font from another serif font.
      \r\n\r\nI might plunk down $20 on a font, then after much use discover something
      about it I don't like. Then buy another font for $20 with the same  result.
      I can see myself two years from now having spent thousands of dollars on hundreds
      of fonts, and not having one I am happy with. I fear buying any font that is
      not a famous commercial font because it might have some fatal flaw. Moreover,
      there are several hundred thousand cheap fonts and free fonts, I would not know
      where to start. The prospect of my having to select ten fonts from all those
      fonts is daunting and overwhelming. \r\n\r\nIf I had more experience with fonts.
      If fonts were a more central part of my life, I might feel more comfortable
      picking a cheap font or a free font. In areas where I have expertise, I can
      spot things that others would not notice after days of examination. Typography
      is your field of expertise not mine. Simply put, I am not qualified, nor do
      I have the competency or expertise to determine the suitability of cheap fonts
      or free fonts. The whole point here is I am trying to produce material with
      a professional look. I can't rely on my expertise to make decent selections.\r\n\r\nWith
      successful commercial fonts, I know I can't go wrong with any of them.  And
      there are a few of them I have seen so often, I know I like them. I am open
      to recommendations. \r\n\r\nWhy don't the typographers here come up with a list
      of 50 low cost fonts they would recommend to budding graphic designers. Of course,
      I am not even a budding graphic designer. But it would certainly be a huge help
      to the public if all the participants here rated a hundred affordable fonts,
      then pared the list down to 50, 25, or even 10. \r\n\r\nI would appreciate all
      the time and effort you put into such an endeavor. You could even profit from
      it. People would pay you to come up with a list of 100, 50, 25, and 10 top affordable/free
      fonts.\r\n\r\nmichael\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2014-10-18 20:22:05'
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: .
    created: '2014-10-18 20:25:26'
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: 'I wish you could recommend specific fonts. I am not qualified to judge
      fonts that are not classics. '
    created: '2014-10-21 06:29:55'
  created: '2014-10-18 18:57:02'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I am not a graphic designer...\r\n> I can see myself two years from now
    having spent \r\n> thousands of dollars on hundreds of fonts...\r\n\r\nMichael
    you don't need to spend thousands on fonts. Since you're not a trained designer
    most of your work will be resumes, flyers, and other simple projects, and all
    you need for those are a few basic fonts. The fonts you already have are probably
    sufficient.  \r\n\r\nIf you occasionally need an unusual font (for a Halloween
    flyer, for example) there are plenty of free fonts out there. They aren't the
    best quality but they'll be fine for something like that.\r\n\r\nYour focus should
    be on developing your skills. Building a font collection can come later."
  children:
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: "One difference between a top flight resume/flyer and a mediocre one is
      the choice of fonts. \r\n\r\nWhat makes this resume stand-out are the fonts.
      Substitute system fonts for the actual fonts used, and there is nothing special
      about this resume.\r\n\r\nhttp://cssmenumaker.com/sites/default/files/blog_list_images/clean_resume.png\r\n\r\nBy
      the way, can you identify the fonts used in this resume?"
    created: '2014-10-21 07:14:43'
  created: '2014-10-18 21:05:57'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '@cyberflor: If I read your heading correctly, you are close to claiming that
    Typophile held you at gunpoint and made you follow six-year-old advice to your
    detriment. Should I feel vexed enough to fail to mention that old CorelDraw and
    Corel WP Office CDs tend to hold sets of (usually Bitstream) fonts?'
  created: '2014-10-18 22:43:36'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: What James has said above is great advice - use what you have well and you
    can make a few choices latter - more equipment does not make for great photography
    - learning to look and use what you have does.
  children:
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: .
    created: '2014-10-21 07:19:28'
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: Deleted
    created: '2014-10-21 07:18:03'
  created: '2014-10-19 00:29:22'
- author:
    name: donshottype
    picture: 126100
  body: "Incredible! A troll like this provokes so much comment.\r\nBut I will rise
    to the bait at least to the extent of saying: If you like the work of a font designer
    you should be prepared to reward the designer for the effort put into making it.\r\nDon"
  created: '2014-10-19 01:31:05'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'Hi again Cyberflor, a very quick Googling for "best free fonts" found several
    articles with things looking an awful lot better than their equivalents a decade
    ago, which was the last time I made that search. [[http://crudfactory.com/font/show/fanwood|Fanwood]],
    a revival/knockoff of Rudolph Ruzicka''s Fairfield by Barry Schwartz, looks especially
    promising, with separate text and display fonts. [[http://www.fontsquirrel.com]]
    seems a useful website for more stuff. More importantly, you need to train your
    eye and learn how to use type. Send me a private message with your postal address
    and I''ll buy you a copy of the book I recommended. '
  created: '2014-10-19 01:47:57'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>Why don't the typographers here come up with a list of 50 low
    cost fonts they would recommend to budding graphic designers.</blockquote>\r\nFor
    what purpose would we? Besides, there are plenty of blogs out there documenting
    the latest free quality fonts. I don't think Typophile is the place for that.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>If
    there are holes in my first message, I can fill them in if anyone\r\nwishes to
    make a courteous request.</blockquote>\r\nWell, for one you claim to pay up to
    $1000 for help and $500\u2013$1000 for a package of commercial fonts under non-commercial
    license and the next moment you say you don't have the money to buy a copy of
    The Elements of Typographic Style. Do you want to help yourself or not? The more
    I read from you, the more I feel you're indeed a troll.\r\n\r\nBesides, if you
    can't tell the difference between the rather different Palatino and Constantia,
    why do you so desperately need knock-offs of commercial fonts anyway? Why not
    look for free or cheap quality fonts instead of narrowing your search with ridiculous
    parameters and be surprised you can't find anything? Also, you gave every inclination
    that you haven't actually searched.\r\n\r\nThat's all I needed to say."
  created: '2014-10-19 19:54:56'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: We are the Robots
  children:
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: "\"We are the Robots\"\r\n\r\nI thought we are the world."
    created: '2014-10-21 19:32:38'
  created: '2014-10-21 13:56:30'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> I don't think I would find desktop publishing \r\n> particularly difficult
    to learn.\r\n\r\nIt's harder than you think. You need to be skilled in organizing
    and presenting information, layout, typography, a page layout program like InDesign
    (which is very difficult to learn), have good people skills, and you should probably
    be proficient in Photoshop so you can clean up photos the client provides.\r\n\r\nLynda.com
    has a series of excellent videos teaching InDesign, Photoshop and many other topics.
    You have to subscribe but you can often find an offer for a free week. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: "I taught myself rocket science, thermodyamics, QM, SR, GR, quantum electrodynamics,
      E8xE8 heterotic string theory, topology, physical chemistry, electrical engineering,
      and formal logic before I turned 14. My forte is organizing and presenting information.
      I have a visceral interest in, and a passion for, desktop publishing and typography.
      Trust me, I am sure I would find Adobe In-Design a pleasure to learn, and easy
      to learn. I have some familiarity with typographical concepts like kerning,
      ligatures, old style numbers, and the like. I have an eye for good design. \r\n\r\nSadly,
      I do not know Photoshop. I could never afford it. But I likely could learn it
      very quickly, too. I was once a jaw-dropping photographer. "
    created: '2014-10-21 20:03:25'
  created: '2014-10-21 16:15:25'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "<blockquote>By the way, can you identify the fonts used in this resume?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nYes.
    Dead easy one, too. ... If the entire thread revolved around you waiting for a
    chance to ask this, please next time use the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/typeid\">Type
    ID</a> forum right away."
  children:
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: "\"If the entire thread revolved around you waiting for a chance to ask
      this, please next time use the Type ID forum right away.\"\r\n\r\nAre you delirious?
      Do you really believe I started this thread to get the chance to ask the name
      of the font used in that sample resume?  The stark absurdity of your comment
      reflects a total psychotic break with reality. You broke my Internet preposterousity
      meter, and that takes some doing. Please get help. \r\n\r\nThere are dozens
      of obvious reasons your allegation can't be true. But if this is the way you
      typically think, I feel sorry for your spouse, friends, and associates. It take
      cynicism and conspiratorial thinking to a new world level.\r\n\r\nIf your entire
      life revolved around you waiting for the chance to make this comment, you finally
      achieved your life's ambition. Honestly, did you really live your entire life
      looking for an occasion to drop this retort? Is this really the reason, you
      joined typophile.com. Have you really been waiting here all this time on typophile.com
      for me to show up to make some comment giving you an opening to unleash this
      witty riposte? \r\n\r\nDoes it really make sense to  you that my comments here
      were all made in preparation to ask the fonts used in this sample resume? Did
      it occur to you that I only alluded to this resume to respond to a comment another
      participant here made. You don't think I desired answers to any of the questions
      I asked up to this point? You don't think those questions were the real reason
      I came to this web site? Apparently not. You are one scary dude. "
    created: '2014-10-21 22:45:48'
  - author:
      name: cyberflor
    body: "\"If the entire thread revolved around you waiting for a chance to ask
      this, please next time use the Type ID forum right away.\"\r\n\r\nAre you delirious?
      Do you really believe I started this thread to get the chance to ask the name
      of the font used in that sample resume?  The stark absurdity of your comment
      reflects a total psychotic break with reality. You broke my Internet preposterousity
      meter, and that takes some doing. Please get help. \r\n\r\nThere are dozens
      of obvious reasons your allegation can't be true. But if this is the way you
      typically think, I feel sorry for your spouse, friends, and associates. It take
      cynicism and conspiratorial thinking to a new world level.\r\n\r\nIf your entire
      life revolved around you waiting for the chance to make this comment, you finally
      achieved your life's ambition. Honestly, did you really live your entire life
      looking for an occasion to drop this retort? Is this really the reason, you
      joined typophile.com. Have you really been waiting here all this time on typophile.com
      for me to show up to make some comment giving you an opening to unleash this
      witty riposte? \r\n\r\nDoes it really make sense to  you that my comments here
      were all made in preparation to ask the fonts used in this sample resume? Did
      it occur to you that I only alluded to this resume to respond to a comment another
      participant here made. You don't think I desired answers to any of the questions
      I asked up to this point? You don't think those questions were the real reason
      I came to this web site? Apparently not. You are one scary dude. "
    created: '2014-10-21 22:46:50'
  created: '2014-10-21 18:34:17'
date: '2014-10-17 20:39:49'
node_type: forum
title: You cost me $20.  I will pay for commercial fonts.

---
