---
author:
  name: scannerlicker
  picture: 130346
body: "Hello to all!\r\n\r\nAs some of you may know, I've been writing type-related
  articles at [[http://learn.scannerlicker.net|learn.scannerlicker.net]]. So I want
  to ask you guys (that are way more knowledgeable than I am at the subject) the following
  two questions:\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>What are serifs for; what's their function?</li>\r\n<li>Why
  did sans-serif fonts became more used than serif ones?</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nI have
  my own theories about it and I'll post them here in due time.\r\n\r\nThank you in
  advance for helping me out!\r\n\r\nCheers!"
comments:
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "<blockquote><p>Why did sans-serif fonts became more used than serif ones?</p></blockquote>\r\nDid
    they?"
  created: '2014-10-27 21:30:35'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: '@riccard0: Yeah, I think they did. I might be wrong, but it''s a feeling
    I have.'
  created: '2014-10-27 23:12:02'
- author:
    name: kthomps5
  body: "Serifs don't serve a function, they are artifacts of the carving/writing
    process of early lettering:\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Serif\r\n\r\nSans
    serif typefaces have been around since the first half of the 19th century, but
    didn't become widely used for setting text (as opposed to headlines or display
    type) until nearly a century later. The creation of typefaces like Edward Johnston's
    bespoke typeface for the London Underground signage (1916), Futura by Paul Renner,
    1929), and Gill Sans (1928\u20131932) by Eric Gill are credited with starting
    the 20th century ascent of the sans serif. \r\n\r\nEconomic and social factors
    (growing industrialism, new social and political orders) played a part as well,
    as the style was seen as more rational and modern than older roman faces.\r\n\r\nI
    believe Johnston's typeface was the first sans serif to be used for wayfaring/signage,
    Futura grew out of the popular Bauhaus style/movement and became closely associated
    with its emphasis on functionalism and simplicity, and Gill Sans was one of the
    first geometric sans serif typefaces to enjoy wide use and distribution (Monotype
    promoted the hell out it).\r\n\r\nSans serifs certainly seemed to be everywhere
    post-WWII (Helvetica, anyone?), but I wouldn't sound the death knell of serif
    faces quite yet."
  created: '2014-10-28 01:43:12'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Though they are artifacts, I would argue that they have a function. If they
    were not useful, they would have vanished from use much more rapidly and completely.
    I believe that by marking exactly where strokes end, much like the perpendicular
    segments that bracket measurements on a diagram, serifs communicate a certainty
    of intent that compensates for infidelity in printing, reproduction, and vision.
    For example, "rn"/"m" confusion doesn't tend to turn up in serif faces the way
    it does in sans. When there are accidental markings or occlusions, it is easier
    to tell that they are out of place. I think that even where there is no ambiguity,
    the marked ends help us recognize shapes more readily.
  created: '2014-10-28 03:16:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "1. The purpose of serifs is to \uFB01nish strokes.\r\n2. Sans serifs only
    became more popular than serifs with the advent of low resolution pixel displays,
    which were too coarse to display serifs nicely."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Cohnishere
    body: But sans serifs became popular in the mid nineteenth century. I would have
      said their popularity is the result of the belief that they give instant recognition
      to the reader--at least of their shape as they are simpler, perhaps not of the
      idea of the letter itself, as we are more used to reading serif letters--and
      designers began to believe that less is more, as the guy who wrote Le Petit
      Prince said. Also having a new fashion of typeface available created diversity.
      Finally, with the new machines that were available sans serifs were, ironically,
      probably easier to carve, and they could be mass-printed more easily on cheaper
      and more crude printers.
    created: '2014-11-24 22:01:33'
  created: '2014-10-28 05:24:10'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "Here's a little bit more of coal to steam this up:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>(...)
    The importance of serifs now becomes clear. Serifs help the designer &#8212; I
    strongly suspect &#8212; the reader to define - and outer-space more definitely
    and more easily.\r\n\r\nSmeijers, Fred, in Counterpunch, 2nd edition, Hyphen Press</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I feel that it has another function in readability, Smeijers discusses that the
    serif has a role in defining the border of white space between letters.\r\n\r\nThoughts?"
  created: '2014-10-28 11:10:54'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "I have to agree with cerulean here:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Though they are artifacts,
    I would argue that they have a function.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAnd he makes a very
    good point, here:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>If they were not useful, they would have
    vanished from use much more rapidly and completely.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nAlthough
    the reason cerulean and Nick posed, the one that \"The purpose of serifs is to
    \uFB01nish strokes.\", is rather simplistic. True, but simplistic: said this way,
    it can be interpreted as a stylistic tick, resulting in a circular argument being
    \"the purpose of a formal characteristic is to be formal\".\r\n\r\nCerulean came
    close to what I think here:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I believe that by marking exactly
    where strokes end, much like the perpendicular segments that bracket measurements
    on a diagram, serifs communicate a certainty of intent that compensates for infidelity
    in printing, reproduction, and vision. For example, \"rn\"/\"m\" confusion doesn't
    tend to turn up in serif faces the way it does in sans.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    believe, though, that serifs have two main functions, other than declare the end
    of a stroke:\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>Serifs play a major role in negative space adjustments,
    by defining borders between glyphs' white space and by <em>invading</em> it, making
    small serif adjustments enough to solve some spacing problems;</li>\r\n<li>It
    increases form variation and, consequentially, diversity from glyph to glyph,
    improving character recognition, and thus, readability.</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nDrop
    your two cents. :)"
  created: '2014-10-28 14:02:30'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "As for sans serifs, I think there was a variety of factors:\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>Sans
    serifs are easier to kern, since it's possible to solve most of the spacing through
    metrics (you don't have to tackle serifs in pairs like <em>nn</em>, <em>no</em>,
    <em>on</em> and <em>oo</em>). In metal type, this also means less ligatures (for
    negative kerning pairs), which is a strong production and economic factor. So,
    as kthomps5 mentioned, industrialization had a big role in here;</li>\r\n<li>Sans
    serifs are more simple and geometric in construction and this rationalization
    makes the production of type easier to comprehend (at least in a superficial level);</li>\r\n<li>Computers
    have played a major role in the proliferation of type, especially in sans serifs,
    due to resolution constraints, as Nick pointed out;</li>\r\n<li>And, in my opinion,
    the major role in this: schools. For what I could see in students, so far, one
    can do an entire BA program without having to set a text texture, at least here
    in Portugal; I've met some cases where students were actually discouraged of trying
    so, so they would have a more consistent-looking project, and thus achieving a
    better overall grade. \r\n\r\nLearning how to compose text was a mandatory activity
    to anyone willing to learn the graphic arts, before computers and graphic degrees
    came into play. And with a new generation of teachers that haven't gone through
    the experience of arranging text with serif fonts, the know-how deteriorates even
    more.</li>\r\n</ol>"
  created: '2014-10-28 14:27:21'
- author:
    name: matesrates
  body: Although the idea that geometric faces were somehow rational was way overblown,
    so is the idea that serifs aid readability. From what I remember of the research,
    people read best what is most familiar to them. I think there is at least an element
    of serifs providing a sought-after impression of history and craft, copperplate
    performs a similar function for formal invitations - it just looks like what the
    reader expects.
  created: '2014-10-28 16:32:21'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "matesrates: Thanks for your answer!\r\n\r\nI have some doubts, though:\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Although
    the idea that geometric faces were somehow rational was way overblown (...)</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBy
    <em>rational</em>, I meant <em>superficially intelligible</em>, since they're
    stripped down to a basic construction.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>(...) so is the idea
    that serifs aid readability. From what I remember of the research, people read
    best what is most familiar to them.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThere's several ideas,
    here, that I'd like to refuse, if you may.\r\n\r\nFirst, let's approach familiarity
    as a factor. It's no mystery that we build knowledge as a continuous stacking
    of relatable items or, if you prefer, classes. So this is the first flaw I see
    in these studies: if familiarity plays a role on readability, the study environment
    should control this factor (by eliminating familiar typefaces or classes of typefaces
    [even serifs or sans], or by working exclusively with typefaces that are familiar
    to the text subject), otherwise it will compromise the conclusions.\r\n\r\nWith
    this said, a study about legibility that concludes that legibility is a major
    factor says very little about the micro legibility factors, so it serves very,
    very little.\r\n\r\nI believe, in a relative level (let's keep it in an overall
    idea), that serifs are more legible than sans. And I have reasons for this belief:\r\n\r\n<ol>\r\n<li>We
    do know that the more idiosyncratic the glyph is (compared to a cluster of glyphs),
    the more readable (i.e. <em>legible</em>) it is;</li>\r\n<li>Overall, serifs tend
    to have more formal variation between closely skeleted glyphs than sans.</li>\r\n</ol>\r\n\r\nAnd
    thus, the average serifs tend to be more legible, or readable, than the average
    sans serifs, because they improve character recognition.\r\n\r\nI think that cases
    like [[http://www.fastcodesign.com/1664561/dyslexie-a-typeface-designed-to-help-dyslexics-read|Dyslexie]]
    or the discussion about [[http://www.creativebloq.com/computer-arts/helvetica-wrong-choice-mac-os-81412755|Apple
    adopting Helvetica Neue as an UI typeface]] (and yes, I'm giving sans serifs as
    examples) back this idea."
  children:
  - author:
      name: matesrates
    body: Sans serifs are often used in situations where legibility is important,
      e.g. in way finding and news headlines. So the dynamic is not entirely clear.
      Those are both short form texts, where the flexibility of the sans, in width,
      in weight, allow a form of shouty unadorned clarity that the serif does not
      match. Of course that is still influenced by historical ideals. Serifs are still
      preferred for long form texts, where reading the text is a different. more arduous
      and measured,  experience. I don't think anyone can say absolutely that one
      is preferable, you could not do a controlled experiment on it.
    created: '2014-10-28 19:04:02'
  created: '2014-10-28 18:11:08'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "matesrates: I completely agree with you.\r\n\r\nEven though, I wonder if
    it's just a historical tick.\r\n\r\nWhile designing serif faces, I end up using
    the serif's length to balance the white space, for example, and I can see how
    it changes spacing so dramatically."
  created: '2014-10-28 19:17:02'
- author:
    name: bojev
    picture: 110659
  body: Kevin called it early -  serifs started out to finish off the end of  carved
    letters. So serifs are a stroke to finish off any element in a letterform.
  created: '2014-10-28 23:34:03'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: 'Everybody repeating the "fact" that serifs are an artifact of letter carving
    should read Edward Catich''s book <em>Origin of the Serif</em>. '
  created: '2014-10-29 02:39:40'
- author:
    name: kthomps5
  body: "Craig, the salient point I hoped people would take from the Wikipedia link
    I posted was that serifs were a function of the tools used to create the lettering.
    The article specifically mentions Edward Catich's theory that Roman inscriptions
    were painted with a brush before they were carved.\r\n\r\nWhether it was a stylus
    cutting cuneiform into clay, brush and ink on stone or vellum, quill or nib pen
    on parchment, the tools used contributed to the shapes of the characters they
    left behind. I don't think any of  those scribes gave a moment's thought to how
    the serifs helped to adjust negative space or to make individual glyphs more recognizable.\r\n\r\nAs
    letter forms and their serifs developed and evolved, those hand-drawn artifacts
    were incorporated into widely taught and read alphabets, and became standardized.
    \r\n\r\nStating that serifs don't serve a function was too reductive on my part.
    Serifs do help a reader distinguish between characters, and can help balance the
    negative space of a line of type, but those benefits are byproducts of the process
    of reproduction (by hand or by press) and evolved over time. While such benefits
    were not the genesis of the serif, they did contribute to the longevity and popularity
    of the form.\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-29 03:34:10'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "eliason: Can you gives us a summary? The book is going to take a while to
    get to my hands.\r\n\r\nkthomps5:\r\n<blockquote>I don't think any of those scribes
    gave a moment's thought to how the serifs helped to adjust negative space or to
    make individual glyphs more recognizable</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWhy not?"
  created: '2014-10-29 09:48:23'
- author:
    name: kthomps5
  body: "Why not?\r\n\r\nBecause I have a problem ascribing modern type designers'
    concerns to artisans working centuries ago, artisans whose principal concerns
    were accurately recording information and making their patrons (e.g., the Roman
    emperor, the Catholic Church, the King or Queen of the moment) happy. Which is
    not to say that some weren't innovative, or artistic, but the purposes you and
    others propose that serifs serve didn't arise until much later, with the advent
    of moveable type."
  created: '2014-10-29 14:52:11'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "As kthomps5 said, Catich argued that Roman inscriptions were painted with
    a brush before they were carved. Most importantly, he demonstrated that (at the
    scale of most inscriptions) there is no reason to think that carving tools necessitated
    such ending strokes. Rather, the serifs come from the brush that made the letters
    before the chisel was brought out. \r\nThe chisel-artifact theory was popular
    before Catich's book, and is still often repeated despite his quite thorough debunking
    of it."
  created: '2014-10-29 15:01:13'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "Kthomps5: I don't know if you've interpreted my question as provocative,
    but it was not: it was pure curiosity. \r\n\r\nIn the other hand, I'm not putting
    myself in the position of a know-it-all: it's quite the opposite: you guys know
    way much more than I do, and that's why I started this thread and make questions.
    At the same time, that is why I discuss my thoughts with you, too see if I'm on
    the right track or not.\r\n\r\nSo, please apologize me if I misused language,
    since I'm not a native English speaker. And thank you for your dedication on scrupulously
    reply to me.\r\n\r\neliason, Kthomps5: I don't want to be over picky with this,
    but if a brush produces a certain artifact, isn't it possible to use it at will,
    for some reason? Even subconsciously? I know that we can't get into the minds
    of a medieval scribe or roman stonemason, but when I see such finesse in their
    work, I have a hard time believing that it was unintentional."
  created: '2014-10-29 16:18:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don't think any of those scribes gave a moment's thought to how the
    serifs helped to adjust negative space or to make individual glyphs more recognizable.</em>\r\n\r\nJust
    because they didn\u2019t produce a formalized written theory and discuss it, doesn\u2019t
    mean they didn\u2019t think about it.\r\n\r\nYou can learn how to catch a ball
    without studying calculus, and the brain is nonetheless involved.\r\n\r\nDesign
    is a form of thought\u2014non-literal, non-numerical.\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-29 16:19:19'
- author:
    name: kthomps5
  body: "No one said it was unintentional, unthinking, or subconscious. Quite the
    contrary.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Whether it was a stylus cutting cuneiform into clay,
    brush and ink on stone or vellum, quill or nib pen on parchment, the tools used
    contributed to the shapes of the characters they left behind.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI
    have no doubt that early scribes quickly discovered that applying stress at a
    particular point in a stroke created a visually pleasing form, or that one way
    of drawing a shape was more economical or \"felt\" better than another. As someone
    trained as a painter and printmaker, I was always taught and encouraged to explore
    and exploit the native characteristics of a certain medium or tool. Find that
    juncture between what a tool can do and making it serve your vision, and you can
    create art.\r\n\r\nBut to ascribe contemporary type design considerations such
    as \"negative space adjustment\" and \"diversity from glyph to glyph\" as the
    genesis and function of serifs overreaches, I think. \r\n\r\nEarly type designers
    were part of the Renaissance revival of all things classical, and based their
    designs on letterforms found on Roman inscriptions. The writing style of medieval
    manuscripts influenced early italic typefaces. Type styles  evolved over the centuries,
    and certain attributes\u2014such as serifs\u2014became part of the canon.\r\n\r\nBut
    I would argue that the form, in this case, predated the function.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-10-29 19:14:20'
- author:
    name: scannerlicker
    picture: 130346
  body: "kthomps5:\r\n<blockquote>But to ascribe contemporary type design considerations
    such as \"negative space adjustment\" and \"diversity from glyph to glyph\" as
    the genesis and function of serifs overreaches, I think.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nWell,
    we were talking about such notions in their direct sense: notions. And don't believe
    that they had the same names, but I do believe that it was a concern.\r\n\r\nBut
    I do agree with you when there considerations are not the genesis of the serifs,
    that's an almost comical inference.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>But I would argue that
    the form, in this case, predated the function.</blockquote>\r\n\r\nBecause form
    always predates function. Always. Function is an attribute, not a starting point.
    Before we knew what serifs were for, well, we needed serifs. Or fa\xE7ades. Or
    hands. Or feet. And their function is pretty much whatever we wish them to be,
    as long as the form allows.\r\n\r\nTo all:\r\nAnyway, the dicussion went a bit
    off-rails, here. I'm not very concerned with the serif's history and genesis,
    I'm more concerned about what we can do with them, beyond artistic expression."
  created: '2014-10-30 14:12:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry to write something without reading the entire thread first, but:\r\n\r\nSerifs
    help fuse letters together into boumas. Which does not mean they're always helpful;
    individual letters are generally less confusable without serifs. So in a paradoxical
    way, serifs make letters less themselves so they can be more helpful in a group.
    Sort of like people in a society.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-22 18:35:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Team work. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bouma_3611.jpg]
  created: '2014-11-23 19:18:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice one!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-23 19:23:12'
date: '2014-10-27 20:35:29'
title: What are serifs for?

---
