---
author:
  name: jaimes
body: "I'm hoping someone can shed some light.\r\n\r\nI notice that for a lot of (most?)
  sans-serif fonts, the letter i is as minimal as could be. Simply a stick and a dot.
  The L is similarly minimal, just a stick, or in the luckier cases, perhaps a kink
  at the top or a curve at the bottom.\r\n\r\nI find that this hinders readability
  \u2013 or at least it does for me. Just now I was reading a page set in Verdana,
  and could not figure out if the word \"ability\" was spelled correctly. The i's
  and l's simply fused, and I could not tell whether there were 3 or 4 \"sticks\".
  I had to get closer to the screen.\r\n\r\nDo others have similar trouble with these
  letters?\r\nSome sans-serifs that make the i's and l's more recognizable: ITC Officina
  Sans, Monitor Pro, Fira Sans, Ubuntu, Trebuchet.\r\n\r\nTo me these look every bit
  as good as Clear Sans, Source Sans, Helvetica. Better, in fact, since I seem to
  parse them more easily.\r\n\r\nWhy are \"skinny\" l's and i's so popular? Purely
  historic/evolution considerations? Or perhaps to make lines of text fit more letters?\r\nAnd
  is there any word to distinguish fonts with skinny i's from those with more serif-like
  i's?\r\nAlso, I've seen some mentions of the dots: square, round, diamond etc. Does
  that make a difference?\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Some sans typefaces do include serifs on some letters but it also adds to
    the texture. If you want to keep it neutral you have to keep the letter forms
    minimal. Verdana had to be minimal due to restrictions in rendering technology,
    but as render technology improves I suspect there will also be an increase in
    the texture of typefaces.\r\n\r\nAlso, I notice I particularly have the problem
    of /ili blending together when I'm wearing only one contact lens or I need my
    contact lenses corrected. Is it not also just an issue of degrading eyesight?
    I don't feel like it's a problem that needs to be addressed necessarily."
  created: '2014-10-29 21:15:22'
- author:
    name: jaimes
  body: "Thanks for your thoughts.\r\n\r\n\"just an issue of degrading eyesight? I
    don't feel like it's a problem that needs to be addressed necessarily\"\r\nTrue,
    but still, many people have degrading eyesight, so I guess there's a market.\r\n\r\nI
    just saw Spiekermann's \"Helvetica Sucks\" image. Apparently we're not the only
    ones having issues with i's and ells.\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-11 10:35:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Strictly speaking this is a legibility issue, rather than readability, as
    these terms are generally now understood. \r\n\r\nThe problem you are describing
    concerns space, not shape. Quite simply, for the size at which the letters are
    being reproduced, the glyphs are too close to one another, and the tittle is too
    close to the stem.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-11 15:40:17'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: It also emphasizes the distinction between stem and tittle.
  created: '2014-11-13 17:46:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jaime, you're right. Too many type designers don't worry enough about such
    things, remaining content to make shapes that superficially harmonize.\r\n\r\nI
    like seeing tittles that are clearly thicker than the stem, and \"el\"s that curl
    at the bottom (in a sans).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-14 05:13:24'
- author:
    name: jaimes
  body: "\"I like seeing tittles that are clearly thicker than the stem, and \"el\"s
    that curl at the bottom\"\r\n\r\nHear hear!\r\nI thought this would be the majority
    position, but just the other day I was reading a complaint against Fira for having
    excessively prominent tittles. Go figure!"
  created: '2014-11-14 14:08:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I know my tittle is just right when most type designers say it's slightly
    too big.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-14 17:37:14'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "As Nick mentioned it sounds more like a spacing problem with the characters
    too close together.\r\n\r\nRegarding degraded eyesight, this is a legitimate issue
    for publications aimed at an older audience. If I'm preparing something for seniors
    I'll increase the type size. And of course there are \"large type\" editions of
    some publications. It's not practical to put everything in large type as it looks
    clunky and wastes paper, but using computers or eReaders (iPad, Kindle, etc) can
    help as the type can usually be enlarged easily."
  created: '2014-11-14 18:08:04'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "I understand degrading eyesight is an issue. Obviously your typeface needs
    to be optimized and you need to set the type at a certain size so people above
    a certain age can read the typeface easily and comfortably as well. But again,
    I don't feel like the problem with reading 'ili' needs to be addressed necessarily.
    When you read complete sentences it doesn't matter whether you read 'ili' or 'illi'.
    I do sometimes specifically look at this part to know how to type a certain word
    or name if I didn't already, but in general reading it doesn't come up as an issue.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    to address the issue there are a few tricks but they all have certain consequences.
    One might place the tittles higher, make rounded tittles instead of square ones,
    make the tittles larger than usually, make the top of the stem thicker or add
    a slab serif to /i and maybe give the /l a tail so there's a bit more distance
    between l_i. Erik Spiekermann likes to give i/j a slab serif and give the /l a
    tail. It adds quite a lot of texture and a more varied rhythm though, so it's
    not always preferable. When the appearance of your typeface changes so drastically
    it could seriously undermine your design. Hence I don't see it as an issue which
    should be addressed necessarily.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>I thought this would be the
    majority position, but just the other day I was reading a complaint against Fira
    for having excessively prominent tittles. Go figure!</blockquote>\r\nAren't tittles
    always bigger than stems? With squared tittles they tend to be the same width
    as the stem, but even there in some typefaces it's slightly wider. When it comes
    to rounded tittles my understanding was that they always need to be bigger than
    the stem so they look optically just right. Or would you like to see the tittles
    slightly bigger than what is optically correct?\r\n\r\nI tend to make tittles
    a bit too big when I want the typeface to look a bit more friendly and playful.
    In case of Fira Sans the tittle is probably a big bigger to improve legibility.
    At small sizes the tittle and stem tend to melt together, so you need to make
    the tittle bigger and/or place it higher or add a slab serif to have a proper
    barrier between the tittle and the stem. I think when considering tittle size
    you also need to think about its application. Fira Sans will work great at text
    size, but at the size it's displayed in the pictures I feel the tittle is indeed
    a bit too big. I understand the criticism, but I think in this case people might
    be valuing its appearance more than its functionality while I suspect Spiekermann
    made the tittles bigger not because of the appearance in style but the increase
    in legibility at smaller sizes.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-16 08:39:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>Aren't tittles always bigger than stems?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nMathematically,
    yes, but that's so they appear the same thickness. We're talking about making
    the tittle perceptually bigger.\r\n\r\nBTW here's the one in Patria:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Patria-i_4526.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-16 15:33:19'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Yes; in Fira Sans, the dots on the i and j are <em>visibly</em> bigger than
    the line width. Not so much as to be bad or ugly, but it's clearly noticeable,
    and so if someone disapproves of that, they would complain.
  created: '2014-11-16 18:19:33'
- author:
    name: jaimes
  body: "<blockquote> \r\nAs Nick mentioned it sounds more like a spacing problem
    with the characters too close together.\r\n</blockquote> \r\n<blockquote> \r\nI
    suspect Spiekermann made the tittles bigger not because of the appearance in style
    but the increase in legibility at smaller sizes.\r\n</blockquote> \r\n<blockquote>
    \r\nWhen you read complete sentences it doesn't matter whether you read 'ili'
    or 'illi'.\r\n</blockquote> \r\n\r\nSo, if tricks like the enhanced tittles and
    curved ell's increase readability at smaller sizes, or allow better use of space,
    isn't this extremely worthwhile, even if it does add texture?\r\nAnd, pardon for
    saying this, my professional deformation as a coder is speaking here, but: I can't
    understand why you'd make readers's heads and eyes work any harder than necessary.\r\n'ili'
    vs. 'illi' sounds a bit silli, but needing to do a double-take on a word is disruptive
    to reading flow."
  created: '2014-11-17 11:43:55'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The other thread, started by Martin Silvertant, about the texture of blocks
    of text, brought to my attention an issue applicable here. A possible <em>reason</em>
    for objecting to a typeface like Fira Sans is that from a suitable distance, the
    enlarged dots on the i and j will stand out from the texture of the page - it
    will now look like a grey text area with black dots peppered through it.\r\n\r\nBut
    I'm not convinced that uniform texture is needed for readability. Enlarged dots
    may, by standing out, add an extra dimension to the \"bouma\" of words, which
    is a good thing for ease of reading. (Or it <em>would</em> be, if <em>all</em>
    typefaces were that way, an argument could go.)"
  created: '2014-11-17 17:48:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Always like the big tittles of Vogue, an American Futura clone from the 1930s:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Stellar2_6468.jpg]\r\n\u2026here
    seen with Stella, printed gravure in the satirical magazine <em>Ballyhoo</em>."
  created: '2014-11-17 20:26:56'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>So, if tricks like the enhanced tittles and curved ell's increase
    readability at smaller sizes, or allow better use of space, isn't this extremely
    worthwhile, even if it does add texture?</blockquote>\r\nIt doesn't improve readability.
    It improves legibility. Body text needs to be more consistent, so you will find
    an /l with a tail mostly in typefaces that are suitable for display use.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>And,
    pardon for saying this, my professional deformation as a coder is speaking here,
    but: I can't understand why you'd make readers's heads and eyes work any harder
    than necessary.</blockquote>\r\nI'm not. You don't need to be able to see the
    difference between 'ili' and 'illi' in words because you recognize whole words
    rather than that you read each letter individually. By making every letter more
    distinct you improve the legibility but in some areas it has consequences for
    the readability.\r\n\r\nI would add a slab serif to i/j to some typefaces if I
    want to achieve a certain texture, but not by default. It improved legibility
    but it's not consistent. It becomes more consistent by designing other letters
    to be more distinct as well, such as adding a tail to /l. If you do this, you
    might give a/d/h/m/n/u spurs as well, and with so many horizontals added you can
    see why it adds texture. This isn't always wanted and in fact many sans typefaces
    are designed to be neutral and calm.\r\n\r\nAlso, geometric typefaces are generally
    meant to be minimalist and they take the proportions to extremes, where condensed
    letters like f/i/j/l/t are really condensed. Just have a look at Futura.\r\n\r\nHere's
    a quote from Reading Letters:\r\nThe dots on the 'i' and 'j' are in danger of
    visually connecting with the stem and being perceived as ascending characters.
    This risk is more evident in sans serif than in serif typefaces. Although not
    approved of by some designers\u2014who argue that serifs do not belong on a sans
    serif typeface\u2014several newer sans serif typefaces have a slab serif on 'i'
    and 'j'. The phenomenon is most common in typefaces designed for electronic media
    and signage, where optimal character recognition is thought to be essential, and
    where spacing is less subtle. The slab serif on 'i' and 'j' is often found in
    the sans serif faces by Erik Spiekermann, who further shows a liking for the sans
    serif 'l' with a tail to the right.\"\r\n\r\nAlso, some of these tricks don't
    necessarily improve legibility either, as I also found out by typing that paragraph.
    I thought it said \"who further shows a liking for the sans serif 't' with a tail
    to the right.\" The lighting is not great here and I looked at it for at least
    5 seconds before I decided it has to be an 'l' because a 't' has a tail almost
    by default. When the /t is wider it improves legibility, but when it's too wide
    it can be easily confused with /c.\r\n\r\nLook at the studies that have been done
    by Sanford (distance test & short exposure test, 1888), Dockeray (parafoveal vision
    test, 1910), Tinker (short exposure test, 1928), Bouma (distance test & short
    exposure test, 1971) and Geyer (short exposure test, 1977) to look at all the
    letters that are commonly misread given the use of specific typefaces.\r\n\r\nStudies
    have also been done to get insight into which parts of the letters we look at
    for recognition, and apparently when it comes to /l we predominantly look at the
    upper part. So it seems the tail on /l is to make the letter more distinct by
    giving it wider side bearings and having the tail compensate for the extra space
    than it is about making the design of the letter itself more distinct."
  children:
  - author:
      name: jaimes
    body: Thanks, I need to hit the books!
    created: '2014-11-19 19:30:27'
  created: '2014-11-18 20:00:26'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\u201CYou don't need to be able to see the difference between 'ili' and 'illi'
    in words because you recognize whole words rather than that you read each letter
    individually\u201D\r\n\r\nThis is a popular misconception, but largely untrue.
    You recognize the letters individually, in parallel. There is some top-down effect
    of it being easier to recognize words, but it is not the shape of the word that
    causes this (the top-down effect, to the extent that it exists, exists for all-caps
    words as much as lowercase ones).\r\n\r\nSee: http://www.awmueller.com/psicoterapia-diversos/tec_word_recognition.pdf"
  created: '2014-11-20 02:15:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, <em>that</em> is a popular misconception, based on flawed \u2013or rather,
    misinterpreted\u2013 research. There is a plenty of hard data, not to mention
    centuries of anecdotal evidence, pointing to a reading process far more complex
    than letterwise decipherment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-20 03:51:24'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "That the process of reading is \"far more complex than letterwise decipherment\"
    is doubtless true, but since the act of reading is <em>subjectively experienced</em>
    as letterwise decipherment as one reads, that it plays a part, at least as a fall-back
    mechanism, is likely true as well.\r\n\r\nIn fact, I think that reading is <em>mostly</em>
    letterwise decipherment, but it runs more smoothly and more quickly because of
    assists from such factors as the redundancy of the language as well as word boumas.
    Redundancy,  unlike bouma, is not a visual element, but it allows predictive decoding
    - reading is quicker when people are being largely presented with what they expect
    to see."
  created: '2014-11-20 16:08:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed, letterwise decipherment is the lion's share of reading... in the
    fovea, where acuity is sufficient. But about 2/3-rds of the visual field is beyond
    the fovea, where individual letters are far less decipherable. Saccades longer
    than the fovea's coverage are but one clue that the exclusively letterwise models
    are wrong, and the parafovea \u2013where <em>clusters</em> of letters <em>are</em>
    decipherable\u2013 plays a big role in immersive reading. The problem with many
    contemporary field research is that invasive methods that preclude true immersion
    give a false image of reading. Another problem is that some pundits would rather
    grasp at a nicely-shaped donut within easy reach rather than wait for something
    unknown but nutritious.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-20 17:43:33'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "@hrant:\r\n<cite>The problem with many contemporary field research is that
    invasive methods that preclude true immersion give a false image of reading. Another
    problem is that some pundits would rather grasp at a nicely-shaped donut within
    easy reach rather than wait for something unknown but nutritious.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere
    are limits to the available methods in experimental psychology, since there is
    no direct access to the brain's inner workings.\r\n\r\nIf the eye doesn't rest
    on some of the letters long enough for letterwise decoding to take place for them,
    then what is filling in the gap? Is it word and sentence completion inferred from
    the letters that were decoded - probably, to some extent. But how much help is
    that receiving from word shapes? <em>How can you tell?</em>\r\n\r\nOne method
    that I suppose could be tried, although still somewhat \"invasive\", would be
    to use one of those display typefaces where the x-height occupies the full body
    size (I couldn't quickly find the example I was thinking of, but Parity by Shinn
    Type is one in this category - ah, further searching turned up a thread here,
    mentioning Alphabet 26 and noting that the general term is \"unicase\"; Fervent
    Sans from Creative Market is another example... ah, it may have been the alternates
    from Folio that I remembered), essentially eliminating bouma, and see how badly
    it interfered with reading.\r\n\r\nMeasuring blink rates instead of just reading
    speed - as was discussed here a while back - is an important way to measure readability
    instead of just legibility, the latter being so much easier to measure that often
    it gets to be the only thing measured."
  created: '2014-11-20 18:39:44'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "Nick wrote: <i>\"Always like the big tittles of Vogue...\"</i>\r\n\r\nCase
    in point: on first scan, I saw the <i>l</i> in \"tittles\" but mistook it for
    an <i>i</i>, which sort of changed the meaning of what Nick was saying.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-21 00:12:17'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> bout 2/3-rds of the visual field is beyond the fovea, \r\n> where individual
    letters are far less decipherable\r\n\r\nFolks with significant macular degeneration
    (deterioration of the central portion of the eye) have great trouble reading,
    even with magnification. I've known several elderly folks with this disorder and
    eventually they can't even recognize people. So I'm skeptical that much recognition
    of letters takes place outside the center of the eye. "
  created: '2014-11-21 00:45:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "<blockquote>If the eye doesn't rest on some of the letters long enough for
    letterwise decoding to take place for them, then what is filling in the gap?</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe
    eye rests long enough (not on letters, but on the entire visual field) simply
    to be <em>sufficiently</em> certain of having extracted <em>enough</em> data;
    a regression happen when it has been too \"impatient\". The uncertainty of letter
    clusters in the parafovea is just part of the risk-taking. Over time, experience
    with reading greatly refines this subconscious art of risk-taking.\r\n\r\nHow
    can I tell? I can't. I can only think, and realize that Larson's testing is fatally
    flawed, and his conclusions provincial. For example, he has already exceeded any
    potential conclusions from your proposed unicase experiment and claimed that all-UC
    text is actually just as readable as mixed-case.\r\n\r\nJames, I don't see how
    the experience of people with failing eyesight means only the fovea is used.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-21 17:49:41'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Hrant, because people with macular degeneration lose eyesight only in the
    center of their vision, like in the image below. \r\n\r\nPeople with it can have
    great difficult reading and sometimes can't even recognize people. You and I can
    see the people in the photo because the center of our eyes can focus on them.
    \r\n\r\nThe center of the eye is crucial for vision.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Disease_MacularDegneration_5021.jpg]"
  created: '2014-11-21 19:58:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh, I understand. I would suggest that the heavy \u2013conscious\u2013 reliance
    on and experience in foveal reading makes it too hard to function without it.
    It would actually be very pertinent to see whether people with macular degeneration
    (especially younger test subjects) could be retrained to use the parafovea exclusively,
    possibly by looking a bit to the right of the intended point in the text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-21 20:12:24'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>\u201CYou don't need to be able to see the difference between
    'ili' and 'illi' in words because you recognize whole words rather than that you
    read each letter individually\u201D\r\n\r\nThis is a popular misconception, but
    largely untrue. You recognize the letters individually, in parallel.</blockquote>\r\nIt's
    not a misconception. However, I didn't want to imply you only read words, either.
    Both principles are at play here, but an experienced reader reads a lot of full
    words rather than individual letters because a lot of word shapes are stored in
    your memory, just like letter shapes are. Last week I read a very interesting
    study on dyslexia which gave insight into this as well. The book Reading Letters
    also has interesting information on this."
  created: '2014-11-22 19:23:30'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Hrant, my experience with several older folks with macular degeneration is
    that eventually they can't read at all. The good news is that lots of research
    is happening and treatments are improving.\r\n\r\nTry this experiment \u2014 try
    to read a sentence while your eye is firmly locked on a word a couple lines above
    or below it. It's almost impossible."
  created: '2014-11-23 02:23:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I suspect we agree that reading benefits immensely from semantic context.
    So trying to read something in the parafovea without the benefit of the preceding
    text is probably indeed hopeless. It would be interesting to run experiments which
    somehow deliver the text preceding the foveal text. Ideally on test subjects born
    with a defective fovea.\r\n\r\nBut there's another factor, one that's very hard
    to quantify: our subconscious can do things our consciousness cannot. I think
    it's certainly possible, and arguably probable that when we try to consciously
    \u2013hence necessarily letterwise\u2013 decipher parafoveal text, we \"try too
    hard\" and miss the forest for the trees so to speak.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-11-23 03:01:12'
date: '2014-10-29 19:05:13'
node_type: forum
title: The letters i and l in sans serif fonts, and readability.

---
