---
author:
  name: dan_reynolds
  picture: 110440
body: "What is a blog without blogtent? Here's an attempt to post some real content
  on my new, super-spiffy Typophlog. I would post this on my own blog, but TypeOff
  is taking some time to build. And by the time it is finished this content will be
  even less newsworthy (it has already been a few weeks since the conference). I swear
  that this is the last thing that I will post about Beirut, though.\r\n\r\nBelow
  is the text of the paper that I presented. I will not be posting the images. Most
  of them can be seen in some form or another over at <a href=\"http://www.typeoff.de\">TypeOff</a>
  anyway (if you snoop around long enough). I have a review of the conference over
  at Typographica. Here is the <a href=\"http://typographi.com/000995.php\">direct
  link</a>.\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Zur\xFCck in die Zukunft?</strong>\r\n\r\nThis paper
  is not about the current situation of design education. I am not an educator, although
  I am gleefully inspired by educators daily. For the past year and a half, I have
  been a graduate student of typography at the Offenbach Academy of Art and Design
  in Germany. If this time has taught me anything, it is that design students in Germany
  face the same problems as students everywhere. Certainly, I see few large differences
  between my experiences as student there, and my undergraduate years in the United
  States.\r\n\r\nHowever, I believe that German students react more proactively to
  these problems than do their contemporaries in other countries. Specifically, German
  students seem to have a propensity to organize. This paper will analyze possible
  solutions to common student problems proposed by the experiences of the TypeOff
  collective. Like many similar groups throughout the country, TypeOff is a collection
  of students formed outside of the classroom to tackle what it sees as lacking in
  the immediate educational environment. Of primary importance to TypeOff is dialog.
  Specifically dialog with other students and designers from our surrounding part
  of Germany. This sort of dialog not only broadens horizons and perspectives, but
  it also brings about better work.\r\n\r\nTypeOff sees itself as a collective of
  forwardly thinking yet historically minded typography students from Offenbach. Offenbach
  is a little city in Germany with a big typographic tradition. Aside from playing
  host to the invention of lithography, Offenbach was home to one of Germany\u2019s
  most creative type foundries in the pre-World War II era, the Klingspor Brothers.
  During the early 20th Century, world-renowned type designers worked in Offenbach,
  including Peter Behrens, Rudolf Koch, and Karlgeorg Hoefer. Quite nearby Frankfurt
  and Mainz, Offenbach has retained the benefit of location. Located in the middle
  of the cradle of printing history, Offenbach is less than 50 km away from both the
  Gutenberg Museum, representing the typographic past with its three Gutenberg Bibles,
  and the Linotype Library, a digital font foundry and distributor representing the
  typographic future.\r\n\r\nGerman students are vigorous organizers, and we at TypeOff
  are no exception. Yet while German students in general tend to organize themselves
  behind various social causes, such as the current nation-wide protests against the
  introduction of university tuition, we have decided to organize ourselves around
  topics of a more intimate nature. We hope to help preserve Offenbach\u2019s typographic
  past, and to keep its memory alive in the present. The Offenbach tradition does
  indeed need remembering, as far as we are concerned: as both graphic design and
  design education become more technical, an appreciation for craft, and even for
  the pleasures of typography, seems to slowly slip out of general curriculums and
  the work habits of professionals. Even our Academy, which once boasted Hermann Zapf
  and David Quay among its list of instructors, no longer teaches type design.\r\n\r\nThe
  largest problem facing design students today is one of time management and priorities.
  It remains the prerogative of institutions of higher learning in our society to
  perform two functions for their students. First, institutions of higher learning
  are just what their names imply: the university bears a social responsibility to
  educate its students to be life-long learners so that they learn to appreciate knowledge
  for its own sake. On the other hand, as fields like graphic design becomes more
  complex, requiring that young professionals exhibit a dizzying array of technical
  capabilities, the university is increasingly asked to perform job training and route
  preparation. One can only teach so much in four years, as American professors will
  often tell you, and this is certainly a hard truth for anyone\u2014teacher or student\u2014planning
  out a curriculum. Until recently, before the introduction of university tuition
  fees, German students simply solved this problem by studying longer; sometimes as
  long as ten years.\r\n\r\nBy the 1990s, graphic design had grown into a largely
  diverse and complex field, and the number of university design programs swelled
  along with its growth. As the Internet economy boomed, and subsequently bust, changing
  business practices altered the expectations for recent generations of students.
  With the global economic situation first expanding and then atrophying, it began
  to seem as if the quality of one\u2019s work or education alone was no longer of
  primary importance, but rather the length or impressiveness of one\u2019s resume.\r\n\r\nAnd
  students packed their resumes as best they could. It became clear that in order
  to get ahead, it was not only necessary to spend the days in class, but the evenings
  learning new software, and all other free time working in internships. And TypeOff
  predicts that the bar is being raised again. If even this level of complexity is
  not enough for success in today\u2019s economy, how will students market themselves
  tomorrow, when not only professors, but also many design firm proprietors will expect
  that advanced-level students take their own initiative, and define their own roles
  and identities?\r\n\r\nTypeOff proposes that we get back to our futures. As designers\u2014and
  I speak here to all practitioners of a craft and not necessarily students or professionals
  alone\u2014what are we to do? Will we allow others to define our objectives for
  us? The five of us in Offenbach have decided to take a step back in order to refocus
  on what we want to be as designers.\r\n\r\nWhat is TypeOff exactly? Literarily,
  it is a conjunction of the words \u201Ctypography\u201D and \u201COffenbach.\u201D
  Theoretically, it is a union of four students and one alumnus who chose to be in
  Offenbach because of its typographic tradition and potential. Other students could
  just as easily pick another location and achieve the same goals; it is the acts
  of decision and process that we find important. We are foreigners and locals: three
  Germans, and two Americans. Three of us have studied elsewhere, two of us completed
  other degrees before coming to Offenbach, and all of us travel to meet with other
  designers and design communities. We actively seek out opportunities for dialog,
  and we work on our own projects together and independently.  \r\n\r\nIn addition
  to our actual projects, our collective rests on two pillars; one physical, and the
  other virtual. Aside from our website, which virtually houses our articles and our
  proto-typeface sketches, we organize a physical gathering of students and designers
  from our region once a month at a bar in Frankfurt. This gathering, called a TypoStammtisch
  in German\u2014a word that translates in to English very poorly, but which basically
  means, \u201Cregular meeting in a bar in which typography is discussed\u201D\u2014is
  attended by an ever-changing group of about ten individuals. These evenings allow
  students from Offenbach and other local universities to meet informally with type
  and graphic designers, and talk about the business for several hours at a time.
  \r\n\r\nWe also talk about our current projects there, some of which I will elaborate
  upon over the next few pages. Core to the following six projects are the themes
  of type design, process, collaboration, exploration, and growth.\r\n\r\nTill Hopstock
  and David Borchers, two German students, often work together on commercial logo
  and corporate identity projects. One of their favorites is a logo they produced
  for a documentary film about a miniature golf course in Landstuhl, Germany, entitled
  Ball of Fame. The letterforms that make up the Ball of Fame logo are actually Katakana
  characters from a Japanese font named Coil. Till and David sifted through the font\u2019s
  characters, none of which they could understand, and selected forms that, when flipped
  or rotated and placed together in the right combination, looked like Latin letters
  that spell out the words \u201Cball of fame.\u201D These marks could not read as
  Latin characters if separated from the overall logotype. Anyone who has ever played
  miniature golf will immediately understand the relevancy of the forms within this
  design. \r\n\r\nIn November, Lara Gl\xFCck\u2014another American\u2014and I participated
  in a small group exhibition at Offenbach\u2019s Klingspor Museum. Lara created a
  book object, a narrative comparing the Greek myth of Zeus and Io with modern surveillance
  technology. The text in this book was all set in an elementary typeface that she
  designed specifically for the piece, which she named Argos. \r\n\r\nArgos is rudimentary
  and geometrically inspired. It runs condensed, and its boxed-in quality helps to
  convey the message of oppressive isolation expressed in Lara\u2019s writing. A formal
  side benefit of the font\u2019s design is that text set in Argos also takes on ornamental
  grid-like appearance. Argos\u2019 letterforms can also be removed from their verbal
  context, and used as pattern-making elements to good effect.\r\n\r\nIn the same
  Klingspor showcase, I exhibited a lettered wall hanging, which was, in essence,
  an oversized book page containing a passage of text from Eric Gill\u2019s essay
  \u201COn Lettering.\u201D To set the text for this piece, I also set out to create
  a new, project-specific typeface. This would be loosely inspired by letter drawings
  from John Howard Benson, a mid-20th Century American calligrapher who was clearly
  influenced by Gill\u2019s ideas. I found the idea to bring Benson\u2019s forms back
  to the side of the Atlantic where their inspiration originated both amusing and
  inspiring. I named the resulting typeface Farewell Street, after the street in which
  the cemetery where Benson is buried is located. Farewell Street consists of an ultra
  thin and an ultra thin italic weight. Its letterforms are quite thin, which created
  an appropriate grey color when place in their final setting on the final wall hanging;
  their x-height was about an inch and a half high.\r\n\r\nTo create the exhibition
  piece, I set and output Gill\u2019s text in the Farewell Street fonts, and then
  transferred all of these letters\u2014there were about 9,000 of them\u2014by hand
  via graphite paper onto the sheet that would make up the wall hanging. This oversized
  piece of paper about one a half meters wide by three and a third meters high. I
  then inked in all of the sheet\u2019s graphite letter outlines, creating their final
  imperfect impression. \r\n\r\nThe Frankfurt Book Fair is one of Germany\u2019s most
  significant annual trade fairs. Last year, a group of Academy students from Offenbach
  were invited by the fair\u2019s organizers to create a series of site-specific installations
  within the hall that would host the fair\u2019s art and design book publishers.
  Till Hopstock, who was one of the students invited, took advantage of this opportunity
  to create two large typographic murals. For both of these, he designed unique own
  custom lettering and type solutions.\r\n\r\nLike most convention centers, Frankfurt\u2019s
  exhibition halls are large cavernous interiors, laid out with more precision than
  most small cities. Because of the exact positioning of the various stands, there
  are curiously placed \u201Cdead spaces\u201D scattered throughout the halls. For
  various reasons, these are spaces that no customer would be willing to rent, but
  which all visitors must walk through to get from one section of the hall to another.
  The fair\u2019s interior designers assume that customers will pass through these
  spaces rather quickly. However, by observing a previous exhibition, Till noticed
  that these dead spaces had some life to them after all. Like the white spaces between
  words, or the pauses in musical scores, these areas offer a moment\u2019s rest\u2014or
  distraction\u2014from the hustle of the fair\u2019s business. Visitors congregate
  in these areas for private conversations, use them to make cell phone calls, or
  to lean against the walls for short breaks.\r\n\r\nTill based his first installation
  on these observations. His space was comprised of a long, white wall, which was
  punctuated by steel fire-safe doors. He filled this wall with script lettering making
  up the four-word phrase, \u201CDie Dichte der Einsamkeit.\u201D This means something
  like \u201Cthe weight of isolation.\u201D The letters that Till designed for this
  phrase could be described as mechanically cursive; all of their forms were made
  up of two stroke weights, thick and thin. Their design was first created digitally,
  and was then later applied onto the site\u2019s walls using a sort of black industrial
  tape. The thin strokes in the letters were the width of one piece of this tape,
  the thick strokes were two pieces next to one another.\r\n\r\nThe second piece that
  Till created for the book fair was on a wall that proved to be a more difficult
  setting. This wall was less of a blank canvas than the first, and had among other
  things an office-like telephone installed in the middle of it. The first mural that
  Till had created was large, and the whole phrase could only be seen properly from
  a distance. In contrast to that design, Till envisioned a more intimate solution
  for his second mural, creating a design that worked around the given elements already
  on the wall. Across the wall, Till set a passage of text in one long running, zigzag
  line. The unicase letters were each about one inch high. The typeface that he produced
  for this text was geometrically complex, and he named it Technology.\r\n\r\nTill
  assumed that visitors to the exhibition would not take the time to read his entire
  line, which was several meters long. Instead, he realized that no matter how legible
  the text, visitors would probably only take the time to look at a few words. In
  essence, the text would have to function more as image than as a conveyor of meaning.
  Knowing that his letters and words would be observed from a distance of about half
  a meter influenced the curious complexity that Till brought to the final design
  of his Technology face. Till further distanced the letterforms from their contextual
  meaning by adding a word space character to the font. Normally, the space between
  words is white\u2014an extra pause between black shapes to help differentiate them
  from one another. All letters in Technology have white, empty space between them;
  yet the word spaces in the font are black rectangles, drawn as if they were suddenly
  an actual character in their own right.\r\n \r\nLike Farewell Street, which referenced
  English and American lettering of the 20s and 30s in a setting dedicated to German
  typography of the same period, the Pater Noster typeface is another mix of cross-cultural
  dialogs. Unlike the previous projects, however, Pater Noster was not designed for
  use in a specific application. I began working on Pater Noster last year after studying
  uncial scripts drawn by 20th Century German calligraphers. Uncial is an alphabetic
  style most commonly associated with early medieval Ireland, and it is not readily
  associable with contemporary German design. Yet many German designers throughout
  history have been intrigued by uncial\u2019s qualities anyway, perhaps because of
  its foreign and historical form. Therefore, German uncial designs rather than traditional
  Irish sources inspired most of the design decisions I made while sketching out Pater
  Noster. If my German influences were one step away from history, then my interpretation
  on their themes is two steps away.\r\n\r\nThis contextual dialog within the design
  makes Pater Noster an essay about formal experimentation and growth; mine as much
  as the alphabet\u2019s itself. In a feeble attempt to try to placate the spirits
  of my Irish ancestors, I have also made some attempts to properly set Gaelic with
  the typeface. While the design may not be the best choice to set Gaelic text with,
  I certainly attempted to make it possible, at the very least. \r\n\r\nPater Noster,
  unlike the other typefaces described in this essay, began as a series of sketches
  on paper. It was only after several months of drawing, and a few small lettering
  experiments, that the letterforms were digitized and refined.\r\n \r\nTypeOff is
  just one of several think tanks of young designers in Germany. All of the work on
  differing sorts of projects, and have different motivations. Some of them are more
  academic in focus, in that their members create all of their work in closer concert
  with their professors. Others are more commercial, creating all of their projects
  as commissions for paying clients. There are collectives who take better advantage
  of the internet than TypeOff does, with real weblogs and discussion forums, and
  potentially larger audiences. \r\n\r\nThe members of the TypeOff collective believe
  that the direction being taken by young designers is Germany on the whole is indicative
  of the future, more communal nature of graphic design. Of course, we could be accused
  of being na\xEFve, and overlooking the corporate design path to our detriment. Certainly,
  no one has accused us of being capable type designers. However, we believe that
  our time as students is short, and that this time should be best devoted to process,
  dialog, and personal development.\r\n\r\nEvery corner of the world has its own typographic
  hotspots as well as its own forgotten memories. Today\u2019s designers are often
  faced with the decision of working either in a internationally generic style\u2014made
  so easy by the fact that we all work with the same basic computer programs\u2014,
  or with taking advantage of the language and style of their own geographic roots
  and locations. Recent exhibitions such as the traveling Experiment and Typography,
  currently on display in Bratislava, and this conference show that even areas such
  as Slovakia and Lebanon, which were previously not on the radar of most typographers,
  have tremendously vibrant activity to offer. In an age of global study and information
  exchange, students are above all required to consider the balance of local and global,
  not just in order to be successful, but also to be able to communicate anything
  at all.  \r\n[end]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Forrest L Norvell
    picture: 109561
  body: "I think organizations like TypeOff are a really good idea. It's too easy
    to just take what school offers you and not challenge yourself to do more, but
    as we all know, what you get out of education is what you put into it. Also, I
    think collaboration and cooperation are excellent things to foster early in your
    career. Working with others makes it a lot easier to get things done, assuming
    everybody contributes (which has almost inevitably been an issue in the collaborative
    ventures I've participated in -- I'm as much a flake as anyone else, too).\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of collaboration, thanks for adding to my [[Rudolf Koch]] entry! My current icon
    is even Koch-related -- it's scanned from an image of his calligraphic illustration
    of The Sermon of the Mount. I'm glad you put his nationalism in \"context\" --
    I intend to write a fair bit on [[German nationalism]] in type, with which I'm
    sure you'll be able to help, because I think it's important to address that issue
    head-on if we're going to be talking about [[blackletter]] and the tradition that
    produced designers like [[Hermann Zapf]]. Everyone has to remember that artists
    used to consider patriotism a good thing, and even now, people approve of, say,
    [[Vojtech Preissig]]'s work to fight fascism in Czechoslovakia, but seem a little
    weirded out by the German nationalism of people like Koch. Not all German patriots
    were Nazis, or anti-Semites -- which you know, and most of the Germans here know,
    but I'm not sure much of the rest of the world knows. Anyway, this is fun! More
    later!"
  created: '2005-05-07 18:56:04'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Hi Forrest,\r\n\r\nI made an attempt to bang something out for your [[German
    nationalism]]. Glad to hear that you like [[TypeOff]]. Like every collaborative
    group, it is sometimes more \"collaborative\" than others. We have seven members
    at the moment, and it is always fun to see what happens.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-05-07 22:43:55'
date: '2005-05-07 14:50:25'
title: typo.graphic.beirut, one more time

---
