---
author:
  name: David Vereschagin
  picture: 122439
body: "I\u2019ve been seeing the curious use of \u201Ctypo\u201D to mean \u201Cfont\u201D
  or \u201Ctypeface\u201D with what seems increasing frequency, usually from folk
  who identify themselves as tyros. Where has this odd usage come from? From where
  is it being picked up? Are these people truly unaware that \u201Ctypo\u201D means
  an error in typesetting? It makes their posts both baffling and amusing.\r\n\r\nDavid\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "Curiously enough, I am also used to call an error a \"typo\" but, quite surprising,
    the <a href=\"http://www.etymonline.com/index.php?term=typo\">Online Etymology
    Dictionary</a> tells me\r\n\r\n<blockquote>typo (n.)<br>\r\n1816, \"compositor,\"
    short for typographer; 1892 as short for typographical error.</blockquote>\r\n\r\n...
    so it's actually the <em>reverse</em>. So I am apparently a typo!"
  created: '2014-12-09 00:18:54'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "I seem to recall a similar thread on the subject from a few years ago.\r\nMy
    hunch is that the majority of the posters that use it aren\u2019t native English
    speakers."
  created: '2014-12-09 00:55:42'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: '"Typo" is used frequently by graphic designers and copywriters to indicate
    an error, but I''ve never heard it used to mean font. Can you give a URL of someone
    using it that way?'
  created: '2014-12-09 03:00:59'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "Here's a recent example:\r\n[[http://www.typophile.com/node/121875]]\r\n\r\nI'm
    assuming that in some languages the word cognate to \"typography\" can mean \"typeface\",
    and people use \"typo\" for short. I've seen speakers of some other Romance languages
    (Spanish certainly, maybe Portuguese and Catalan too?) do this here as well."
  created: '2014-12-09 05:30:36'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "<blockquote>David Vereschagin wrote: <em>\"...from folk who identify themselves
    as tyros.\"</em></blockquote>\r\n\r\nEqually baffling to me was word \"tyros.\"
    Despite having lived several decades speaking and reading English, I've never
    once encountered this word. I just looked it up and it means novices or beginners,
    but then I'm likely the only one here who didn't already know that."
  created: '2014-12-09 05:41:43'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "Cory, you\u2019re not the only one, that was new to me too :)"
  created: '2014-12-09 08:27:06'
- author:
    name: David Vereschagin
    picture: 122439
  body: "It probably is something from people whose first language isn\u2019t English,
    then. I was wondering if it might be some new idiomatic expression with its origin
    in the interwebs.\r\n\r\n-- \r\nDavid\r\n"
  created: '2014-12-09 12:59:47'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I've never heard \"tyros\" either, but I found it in several dictionaries.\r\n\r\nDerivation
    is \"Medieval Latin, from Latin TIRO young soldier, tyro, First Known Use: 1587\".
    Synonyms include apprentice, fledgling, freshman, greenhorn. "
  created: '2014-12-09 16:38:39'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: The first time I saw 'typo' used about something other than a typing error
    was on this site. IIRC, that was a mass noun (singular; no article), short for
    'typography' and came from French.
  created: '2014-12-09 20:04:09'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "As is commonly taught in our middle schools the average American has a vocabulary
    of just 1500 words\u2026 Most youngsters in Europe command more than that in each
    of the (on average three) languages they learn, around the age of sixteen."
  created: '2014-12-09 21:09:27'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "That's really interesting, Bert. I don't mean to detail this topic, but do
    you have suggestions as to where the difference may come from? Do you reckon Europeans
    are generally more linguistically developed because the close proximity of foreign
    languages pretty much forces us to?\r\n\r\nI also find it's beneficial to speak
    an EU language when reading foreign languages. I can understand Dutch and German,
    and with that I also have quite a lot of insight into French (though I did learn
    it at school), Spanish, Italian and the Scandinavian languages. Speaking Dutch
    also helps with the pronunciation of other EU languages. Polish is a big exception
    though. I can't get the hang of it."
  created: '2014-12-12 13:49:44'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "<blockquote>Bert Vanderveen wrote: <em>\"As is commonly taught in our middle
    schools the average American has a vocabulary of just 1500 words\u2026\"</em></blockquote>\r\n\r\nI'm
    unsure where you got your information on this, but it differs considerably from
    I was able to find.\r\n\r\nhttp://econ.st/16fiqV3\r\nhttp://bit.ly/SBhB2l\r\nhttp://bit.ly/1wnxF6u\r\n\r\nI
    wouldn't be surprised if only about 1,500 words are needed for typical conversations,
    but according to the information in these links (and the studies they reference),
    most adults have a vocabulary in the neighborhood of 30,000 to 60,000 words.\r\n\r\nUnlike
    most Europeans, it's unfortunate, but true, that most Americans can only speak
    English. Still, it's understandable given the number of native languages spoken
    in Europe as opposed to the lack of linguistic diversity the U.S.. \r\n\r\nDespite
    being similar in land area, Europe has a couple dozen major languages and many
    more distinct regional dialects. A day's drive through Europe can easily cross
    several borders where entirely different languages are spoken. This just doesn't
    happen in the U.S., where English is spoken throughout. It's becoming increasingly
    useful to know some Spanish, but not really necessary in day-to-day life for most.\r\n\r\nEven
    those Americans who have learned new languages while living abroad often tend
    to forget, over time, most of what they learned upon returning home. Unlike Europe
    (or much of the world), only limited opportunities exist to, even, use another
    language."
  created: '2014-12-12 18:15:54'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> most adults have a vocabulary in the \r\n> neighborhood of 30,000 to 60,000
    words\r\n\r\nRegardless of the sources, I find that hard to believe. And I can't
    imagine how you'd test for that. If a test took 5 seconds per definition, testing
    60,000 words would take 83 hours!"
  created: '2014-12-12 18:56:38'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "I'm a bit skeptical of the high numbers given on those sites too. My best
    guess is an average American adult vocabulary (knowing the definition of words
    as opposed to simply recognizing them) consists of around 15,000 to 20,000 words,
    but, hey, I'm no expert.\r\n\r\nFor what it's worth, here's an online vocabulary
    test (English) that claims to estimate the vocabulary of those taking it. The
    statistical results from those taking the test are, of course, skewed in the direction
    of those choosing to take the test and, likely, having larger vocabularies. These
    skewed results showed an cumulative median to be around 30,000 words.\r\n\r\nhttp://testyourvocab.com/\r\n\r\nNo
    matter where the more accurate numbers lie, though, it seems clear that an average
    American has a vocabulary far larger than 1,500 words."
  created: '2014-12-12 19:56:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Big distinction between how many words one knows the meaning of, how many
    one uses in everyday speech, and how many one uses in written work. '
  created: '2014-12-12 20:26:19'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite> Are these people truly unaware that \u201Ctypo\u201D means an error
    in typesetting?</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, a word means what people agree upon it means.
    Meanings change over time or change with context. So if enough people agree that
    typo is another word for typeface, than it can be a \u201Ccorrect\u201D use.   \r\n\r\nI
    think it\u2019s rather clear where this newer meaning comes from. When people
    talk about typography, the choice of typefaces is mostly the main aspect. In a
    corporate design manual for example, there is usually a section titled \u201Ctypography\u201D
    and then it shows the corporate fonts. Typo \u2014 short for typography\_\u2014\_then
    becomes a synonym for typefaces. \r\n\r\nI discourage people from using that new
    meaning though. It\u2019s useful to have a distinction between the use of typefaces
    and the typefaces itself. Blurring those meanings is not helpful. \r\n\r\nBut
    I wouldn\u2019t call it \u201Cbaffling and amusing\u201D when other people use
    different meanings of words. The way they learned those meaning through interacting
    with other people, is not different from how you might have learned the other,
    older meaning (typing error). Your meaning is not more \u201Ccorrect\u201D because
    it is older. That\u2019s not how language works. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2014-12-13 08:46:46'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "> Meanings change over time\r\n\r\nThat's right, meaning can change, new
    words appear, old words can disappear. That's why dictionaries are updated periodically.\r\n\r\nBut
    I hope it doesn't happen with \"typo\"."
  created: '2014-12-13 17:33:12'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>This just doesn't happen in the U.S., where English is spoken
    throughout. It's becoming increasingly useful to know some Spanish, but not really
    necessary in day-to-day life for most.</blockquote>\r\nWell, you said it yourself;
    it does happen, though only with Spanish. I don't see how learning Spanish not
    being necessary for day-to-day life is an argument though. Do you reckon I have
    to speak German every day? I never speak German generally, though every time something
    German is on TV I have to smile because although I probably would never have taken
    on German myself, the fact that it was forced on me has been really beneficial.
    I'm rather upset by the fact we weren't taught Spanish in school.\r\n\r\nI originally
    come from the south of the Netherlands, close to the border of Germany. For us
    it's beneficial to speak German, especially since many go to Germany for gas and
    groceries, but it becomes increasingly irrelevant as new generations of Germans
    speak English. Most of the Netherlands doesn't have a need for it though and in
    fact further away from the border of Germany people aren't fluent in German despite
    being taught in school. Despite that, I consider it to be absolutely beneficial
    to learn at least one extra language, despite not needing it for day-today life.
    It's probably a good thing for your linguistic capabilities in general.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I find particularly interesting is that people think their language gives them
    the ability to communicate anything and everything. I find using one language
    to be stifling. Even knowing all the languages in the world should feel one restricted
    when faced with deeper reality. We can discuss this in another topic if interested,
    but I've experienced things for which there are simply no words as these experiences
    came about by neurological pathways which are normally not accessed. I submit
    that with every language, there are certain minor neurological pathways you would
    normally never use. I often find both English and Dutch to be lacking, so at times
    it's good to know multiple languages so I at least have the insight of what the
    language is lacking. If I didn't have that insight, I suppose in some instances
    I may be under the impression that I'm communicating accurately while this is
    in fact not the case.\r\n\r\nAlso, I'm sad I don't master mathematics as this
    language seems to give many insights which are very hard to get to with ordinary
    languages.\r\n\r\nI guess this has been a long winded way of saying \"one language
    is never enough, regardless of where you live\".\r\n\r\nAs for the notion that
    Americans have a vocabulary of 1500 words, I feel stupid for just accepting the
    statement blindly. I just read that the average native 4 year old has a vocabulary
    of 5000 words. The most common vocabulary size for foreign test-takers is 4500
    words (and a different source says foreigners commonly have a vocabulary of 4000\u20139000
    words). I just did a test to see how large my English vocabulary is, and apparently
    it's 20.600. I'm rather disappointed with that number, though I guess it falls
    perfectly within the average vocabulary of native speakers. I just thought my
    vocabulary was higher. I can barely imagine many native speakers knew any of the
    last words of the test. [[http://testyourvocab.com/|testyourvocab.com]]"
  created: '2014-12-13 20:37:09'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "I don't disagree with what you're saying, Martin. It's most definitely unfortunate
    that most Americans only speak English. My main point, though, is that it's more
    difficult to adequately learn a second language in the U.S. since there's relatively
    little opportunity to use, practice or keep up with it without really going out
    of one's way to do so.\r\n\r\nYou mentioned growing up in the Netherlands, so
    within an extended region the size of the U.S. state in which I live, you had
    native speakers of Dutch, German, Flemish, French, English and, maybe, Danish.
    It might not have been strictly necessary to learn multiple languages there, but
    with that kind of diversity packed into such a small area, it seems logical that
    so many do so \u2014 especially given the largely borderless nature of travel,
    business and residency within the EU.\r\n\r\nThat kind of linguistic diversity
    doesn't exist in most of the U.S.. So unless one lives on the border with Mexico
    or Quebec, the most practical and immediate reasons for most Americans to learn
    a second language don't exist, and the most effective opportunities to do so are
    absent as well. Whether this is good, bad or a mixed bag is another matter, but
    it is what it is."
  created: '2014-12-14 04:05:58'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I took French in high school and the only use I've had for it was a short
    vacation in France, but nearly everyone I met was used to tourists and spoke some
    English.\r\n\r\nSpanish isn't needed where I live, but it's useful in some parts
    of the U.S., especially the southwest. \r\n\r\nIt's a very different situation
    in Europe where one can drive through several countries in one day, and a knowledge
    of multiple languages is very useful. One of my grandfathers was a Polish immigrant
    and spoke 4 or 5 languages."
  created: '2014-12-14 05:24:47'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "<blockquote>I don't disagree with what you're saying, Martin.</blockquote>\r\nHaha
    I actually wasn't trying to make a big argument against you. I started with a
    slight disagreement and then got carried away with my own story and forgot I was
    responding to anyone in particular.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>My main point, though,
    is that it's more difficult to adequately learn a second language in the U.S.
    since there's relatively little opportunity to use, practice or keep up with it
    without really going out of one's way to do so.</blockquote>\r\nI get that, and
    I don't think the average American can do much about it, though I do think there
    will be plenty of opportunities to take Spanish at school. However, I believe
    some languages should become part of the standard subjects you take at school.
    It's probably not so much about practicality as it is about general insight and
    becoming well versed with languages. I started learning English at school at age
    10 or 11, French at 13 and German at 14. For some reason French just didn't stick,
    though I can read some. I think it's a beautiful language but rather difficult,
    and I guess I didn't really see the practicality of it. I still don't. In the
    Netherlands you get to choose a profile at high school and each profile has specific
    classes. I chose \"culture & society\" which included a particular focus on language,
    so I had to choose between advanced French or German and chose the one which I
    thought was easier.\r\n\r\nIf I had the choice I honestly don't know if I would
    have chosen a language besides English at all, but I'm very glad it was forced
    on me. I think people should start learning languages very young. I consistently
    scored higher at English than I did at Dutch because I find English grammar to
    be easy and I basically grew up with the language, where everything on TV was
    subtitled in Dutch and all my games were in English. It got to the point where
    I install Windows and all other software in Dutch, because I hate having it all
    in Dutch.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>It might not have been strictly necessary to learn
    multiple languages there, but with that kind of diversity packed into such a small
    area, it seems logical that so many do so \u2014 especially given the largely
    borderless nature of travel, business and residency within the EU.</blockquote>\r\nActually
    I don't think that's exactly the case. English is supposedly taught anywhere,
    but in the EU there are many countries where people just refuse to speak a foreign
    language. The Netherlands is quite an exception and in fact we get a lot of exchange
    students simply because we're well versed in languages and most of our schools
    teach in English. I'm supposed to be doing my study in Dutch, but half of it is
    in English because of exchange students. I love that, but a few people of my class
    have complained because they're not very well at talking English and didn't choose
    a Dutch study for nothing, because we also have official English studies at our
    school. I considered doing my degree in English. I didn't, so now I'm just glad
    I get to talk English half the time anyway.\r\n\r\nIn the last years the Netherlands
    has been dubbing cartoons for kids, but I actually grew up with English cartoons
    with subtitles. I consider it to be a regression that we're dubbing now. It seems
    in every country where people refuse to speak foreign languages, they dub everything.
    So, I think part of the reason why people aren't great with languages in other
    countries is because they refuse to become intimate with it. They dub absolutely
    everything and I've heard many Germans actually don't know what the actors really
    sound like because they're used to the German dub. They do it in Spain, Portugal,
    France, Germany, Italy, Ukraine, Poland and probably a lot more countries. We
    still don't do that for movies unless they're for children. When I was in Paris
    9 years ago, I saw posters for English lessons everywhere in the metros, but no
    one around me could talk English and if they did, they refused to. Things may
    have changed since then, but I find it a bit hard to believe. The new generations
    do obviously learn English though.\r\n\r\nAlso, we Dutch learn English, German
    and French almost by default and some schools offer options for more unusual languages.
    If you study at a high level you also get to learn Latin and Greek, but I suppose
    that's the case in other countries as well. However, other countries certainly
    don't learn Dutch. I've never heard of Germans learning Dutch, French or Italian,
    of Italians learning German, of French learning Dutch (even though half of Belgium
    speaks Dutch and the Belgians certainly learn French) or Spanish. So it's really
    not like we're all learning extra languages because of our close proximity. English
    is the only language that is taught everywhere. Years ago I hung out with a Polish
    family in Italy and despite the fact that their teenage kids listened to Eminem
    non-stop (or perhaps because of it), they couldn't speak any English."
  created: '2014-12-14 05:44:27'
- author:
    name: kthomps5
  body: "Martin, Latin and Greek used be part of public education in the US, but by
    the time I entered high school (1980) it had been out of fashion for at least
    20 years (not that I\u2019m a particular fan, but as an example our former President,
    Bill Clinton, studied four years of Latin at Little Rock High School in Arkansas
    in the early 1960s). Classical languages held on longer\u2014and are still taught\u2014in
    private preparatory or \u201Cprep\u201D schools and in Catholic elementary and
    high schools, but usually as electives these days, not as required parts of the
    curriculum.\r\n\r\nThanks to a 9th-grade English teacher who used to be a Latin
    teacher, I learned the Greek and Latin etymology of English words and am grateful
    for the instruction. As for foreign languages, even the high school in my remote,
    Midwestern hometown offered Spanish, German, and French. Unfortunately, those
    elective classes were scheduled opposite the art, chemistry, physics, biology,
    and advanced English classes I also wanted to take. So, no foreign language for
    me in high school.\r\n\r\nWhich is why I picked a private liberal arts college
    that required proficiency in a foreign language of all its graduates. While my
    choices were much broader than in high school (they included Japanese, Chinese,
    Russian, Hebrew, Latin, Greek, Portuguese, Italian, Marathi, and Arabic), I had
    the same scheduling problem\u2014the language I wanted to study (Russian) was
    scheduled opposite all my required art classes. So I ended up studying four years
    of French, living in the French language interest house, and getting fluent enough
    to be asked to work as a grader for the French department. The experience improved
    my grasp of English grammar, allowed me to do primary source research in art history
    in the original language, and broadened my social world.\r\n\r\nBut to your point,
    unless I make a concerted effort to practice the language, I don\u2019t speak
    it often these days. And given my choice of language and where I live, I don\u2019t
    encounter many other people who speak it, either. The last time I remember using
    it in public was at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, when a French couple was getting
    bad advice as to where to hail a taxi from one of the museum shop clerks. When
    I added my two cents in French, they seemed pleasantly surprised and grateful
    for the assistance. After the couple left, the clerk asked me if I were French,
    too, and was surprised when I said no.\r\n\r\nI still watch unsubtitled French
    films and read books in the language, but it\u2019s not the same thing as speaking
    the language every day.\r\n\r\nThe average American still adamantly hangs on to
    the notion that if you live in this country, English is the only language you
    should speak. Bilingual education for recent immigrants has fallen out of favor,
    foreign language instruction in public schools is often seen as an unnecessary
    luxury, and people look at you sideways for pronouncing foreign words correctly.
    Sadly, because the rest of the world teaches English in its schools, we have the
    arrogance to think we don\u2019t have to learn their languages. And we are poorer
    for it."
  created: '2014-12-15 13:22:42'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>\u2026\_and people look at you sideways for pronouncing foreign words
    correctly. </cite>\r\n\r\nWhen I posted an article (<a href=\"https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=os4lUpj3nvw\">now
    turned into a video</a>) demonstrating the original spellings of European typeface
    names, many Americans even got angry by the pure notion there exists another way
    than just pronouncing everything like it was an English word. I definitely felt
    some arrogance there. "
  created: '2014-12-16 06:21:42'
- author:
    name: kthomps5
  body: Helvetica Neue engenders the most ridicule....
  created: '2014-12-16 12:38:29'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I may have used some hyperbole in my statement about the vocabularies\u2026
    In fact that 1500 words is the vocabulary of US English speakers \u2018in daily
    use\u2019. \r\n\r\nBut this IS an interesting discussion\u2026 : )"
  created: '2014-12-16 12:43:51'
- author:
    name: Martin Silvertant
    picture: 118818
  body: "Bert, I considered that, but I saw several articles based on the same source
    that stated men generally use 7000 words per day while women use 20.000 words
    per day. Would the 1500 words be unique words?\r\n\r\nAs for the pronunciation
    of typefaces, I feel words like \"neue\" should be pronounced correctly. When
    it comes to the names I would actually encourage your own pronunciation. Also,
    I find it odd Americans get angry by the notion there is an alternate pronunciation
    and indeed it's arrogant to pretend the English pronunciation is the correct one,
    but I must say people often sound pretentious when they pronounce foreign words
    correctly. In my opinion that should be done when you speak the language, but
    I think in the Netherlands people would also look at me weird if I were to pronounce
    all Italian foods correctly. We're so used to the Dutch pronunciations of Italian
    names (who even says 'spaghetti' the way Italians do?), it's just too obtrusive
    to use a foreign pronunciation in a sentence in your own language. I feel the
    same way about the names of typefaces. Especially the German names sound odd when
    spoken by an English speaker.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Martin, Latin and Greek used
    be part of public education in the US, but by the time I entered high school (1980)
    it had been out of fashion for at least 20 years</blockquote>\r\nActually, when
    it comes to Latin and Greek I think it's justified that it's not part of standard
    education. In the Netherlands Latin and Greek are only taught to the people who
    do high school at the highest level, since I suppose these are the people who
    are more likely going to be doctors, biologists, historians, linguists etc. There's
    no need to learn Latin if you intend to become a barber, of course.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>As
    for foreign languages, even the high school in my remote, Midwestern hometown
    offered Spanish, German, and French. Unfortunately, those elective classes were
    scheduled opposite the art, chemistry, physics, biology, and advanced English
    classes I also wanted to take. So, no foreign language for me in high school.</blockquote>\r\nI
    was forced to do either advanced French or German as it was part of the profile
    I chose. I think if I would have had free choice, I might have chosen a scientific
    class instead. I'm not sure if that would have been better for me. Back then I
    wasn't particularly fond of school, but right now if I could re-do it I would
    have loved to do both. I feel guilty about every opportunity I miss to learn.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>The
    experience improved my grasp of English grammar, allowed me to do primary source
    research in art history in the original language, and broadened my social world.</blockquote>\r\nThat's
    really what I encourage. I know there are many people who don't see the practical
    use of learning a secondary or tertiary language, but it opens up so many possibilities.
    Suddenly you have access to documents you didn't have access to before. I would
    love to be fluent in French, Spanish, Latin, Greek and Russian at least. I live
    in a house with Chinese people, so I guess Mandarin would also be handy, but just
    for fun. It would be great to be able to read any old book you might find in whatever
    language.\r\n\r\n<blockquote>Sadly, because the rest of the world teaches English
    in its schools, we have the arrogance to think we don\u2019t have to learn their
    languages. And we are poorer for it.</blockquote>\r\nExactly. In hindsight I find
    it hard to understand people don't learn several languages. I don't really know
    what Dutch is good for though."
  created: '2014-12-17 17:15:06'
date: '2014-12-09 00:09:27'
title: "\u201CTypo\u201D"

---
