---
author:
  name: Core0
  picture: 123795
body: "My recent work on [[http://typophile.com/node/121876|Bot Mono]] began with
  Deja Vu, which includes a huge array of extra signs and languages. Of course I can
  remove individual glyphs by deleting them. But how do I remove whole sets of languages,
  or extra arrays of special characters? \r\n\r\nMy second question is about which
  sets I should include. Latin is a natural choice, as well as the basic arrays of
  Baltic languages and Greek. But this is a font for code, for programming and the
  computer shell. I understand there is no such thing as \u201Cone standard set of
  characters\u201D \u2014 you can make your font as large or small you want. What
  I\u2019m looking for is a good common ground, a set that would be useful in daily
  work (coding) with non-asian, non-african, European languages."
comments:
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "I forgot to add I\u2019m working in Fontlab Studio 5.1 on Mac OS 10.10."
  created: '2014-12-15 17:50:52'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: "I think that WGL4 would allow most Europeans to comment their code in their
    own language.\r\n\r\n[[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Windows_Glyph_List_4]]"
  created: '2014-12-16 16:04:52'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "Thank you, T\xE9 Rowan, but that is not answering my first question. \u201CWGL4\u201D
    is also not a language choice in Fontlab."
  created: '2014-12-16 22:55:04'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "What exactly do you mean by 'language choice in FontLab' (i.e. to which panel
    and/or menu are you referring?)\r\n\r\nAndre"
  created: '2014-12-17 08:52:50'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: 'Don''t know about removing, but this could be of interest: http://www.thomasphinney.com/2014/03/fontlab-latin-encoding/'
  created: '2014-12-17 10:00:15'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "@agisaak: It\u2019s referring to \u201CEncoding and Unicoding\u201D as well
    as \u201CUnicode Ranges\u201D in the Font Info panel."
  created: '2014-12-17 16:56:51'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Neither of those sections are of much relevance to what you're asking. The
    'unicode ranges' are used to set flags in the font which indicate which unicode
    blocks contain characters -- while some blocks are named for languages, it's unicode
    blocks that are being referred to here, and while unicode has been expanded to
    include many new blocks, new flags haven't been added for all of these.\r\n\r\nThe
    encodings section again doesn't refer to languages, but to codepages which are
    largely obsolete since they are only really used by pre-unicode applications.\r\n\r\nIf
    you're starting from an existing font there really isn't any way to tell FontLan
    that you want to delete all characters used by (e.g.) Hausa other than to delete
    the unwanted characters, and then let FontLab automatically recalculate the two
    font info panels you mention above.\r\n\r\nAndre"
  created: '2014-12-17 19:03:48'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "Thanks for your explanation, agisaak. The problem I have is that I don\u2019t
    know which characters belong to which unicode set. I started off with Deja Vu,
    which has an extremely wide array of unicode sets.\r\n\r\nHow do I know which
    characters/glyphs to remove, so I leave a unicode set complete? Looking up a reference
    and comparing them one by one, with roughly 2700 glyphs?"
  created: '2014-12-17 21:41:27'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "You asked how to remove characters in a certain language, but what you really
    want is the opposite, isn't it? That is, you wouldn't want to remove a character
    because it's used in a Slavic language, if it is also used in Western European
    languages. \r\n\r\nI think T\xE9 is on the right track. It's easy enough to write
    a Python script that says \"if glyph is not in (said list of glyph names), then
    delete it\". Using the WGL4 list is probably a good start for that. "
  created: '2014-12-18 02:30:55'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "I don't know Fontlab, I only downloaded a trial version years ago (the files
    are dated 2012) to have a look and I can see in <code>/library/Application Support/FontLab/Encoding/OT
    special</code> a file named <code>ot_lcg_wgl.enc</code> with the header\r\n<PRE>\r\n%%FONTLAB
    ENCODING: 20000925; OpenType LatCyrGrk WGL4\r\n%%GROUP:OpenType\r\n%%Source: Fontlab
    Ltd.\r\n%%Release: 2010-06-06\r\n</PRE>\r\n The file contains a list of 659 unicode
    characters plus 11 variants. There are 74 Greek characters 95 Cyrillic characters.
    \ I however have no idea how it is to be used in Fontlab.\r\n\r\nOn the other
    hand, I would personally also look at the unicode characters figuring in <a href=\"http://www.google.com/fonts/specimen/Source+Code+Pro\">Source
    Code Pro</a> (<a href=\"https://github.com/adobe-fonts/source-code-pro\">sources
    and latest updates on github</a>)"
  created: '2014-12-18 03:35:28'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "<cite>Thanks for your explanation, agisaak. The problem I have is that I
    don\u2019t know which characters belong to which unicode set. I started off with
    Deja Vu, which has an extremely wide array of unicode sets.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>How
    do I know which characters/glyphs to remove, so I leave a unicode set complete?
    Looking up a reference and comparing them one by one, with roughly 2700 glyphs?</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    not really sure what you mean by unicode 'sets'. Unicode ranges are in many cases
    fairly arbitrary collections of characters and there's no real need to ensure
    that any of them remain complete.\r\n\r\nYou mention you want to include Latin,
    Baltic (which is part of Latin) and Greek.\r\n\r\nHere's a brute force approach
    you might consider:\r\n\r\nOpen DejaVu in unicode ranges mode, then mark all of
    the glyphs in the following ranges: Basic Latin, Latin 1 supplement, Latin-Extended
    A.\r\n\r\nIn addition to the above, mark the following characters: 018F, 019F,
    01FA-01FF, 0218-021B, 0237, 0259, 0275 and possibly 01C4-01CC and 01F1-01F3.\r\n\r\nNext,
    switch to codepages mode and mark all of the characters in MacOS Roman and Windows
    Greek. (many of these will already be marked).\r\n\r\nNext, look through the font
    and mark any additional characters that you want, such as mathematical characters
    etc.\r\n\r\nFinally, select all unmarked characters and delete them. You should
    have a reasonable character set for Latin and monotonic Greek."
  created: '2014-12-18 07:13:40'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "In the event that you meant 'Cyrillic' rather than Baltic (since Baltic was
    a bit redundant, it dawned on me that this may have been a mistake) you should
    also select MacCyrillic while in codrpages mode. That will give you a fairly minimal
    cyrillic set suitable for the major Slavic languages spoken in Europe.\r\n\r\nAndre"
  created: '2014-12-18 07:23:46'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "\"I leave a unicode set complete?\"\r\nThere are special \"Unicode\" fonts
    with full support - not intended for everyday use. One of them is merged-unifont-mono.ttf
    15.300 glyphs. (made in FontForge; I suppose it would be a problem to do it in
    FontLab)\r\n\r\nYou may want to include this set of glyphs (from http://www.impallari.com/testing/
    )\r\n\r\n\"Diacritics for all the 104 Latin Languages\r\n\xC0 \xC1 \xC2 \xC3 \xC4
    \xC5 \u0100 \u0102 \u0104 \u01FA \u0200 \u0202 \xC6 \u01FC \u0106 \xC7 \u0108
    \u010A \u010C \u010E \u0110 \xD0 \u1E0C \u01F1 \u01F2 \u01C4 \u01C5 \xC8 \xC9
    \xCA \xCB \u0112 \u0114 \u0116 \u0118 \u1EBC \u011A \u1EB8 \u0204 \u0206 \u018F
    \u01F4 \u011C \u011E \u0120 \u0122 \u0124 \u0126 \u1E24 \u012C \xCC \xCD \xCE
    \xCF \u0130 \u0128 \u012A \u012E \u1ECA \u0208 \u020A \u0132 \u0134 \u0136 \u0139
    \u013B \u013D \u013F \u0141 \u01C7 \u01C8 \xD1 \u0143 \u0145 \u0147 \u1E44 \u014A
    \u01CA \u01CB \xD2 \xD3 \xD4 \xD5 \xD6 \u014C \u014E \u0150 \xD8 \u01FE \u01EA
    \u1ECC \u020C \u020E \u0152 \xDE \u0154 \u0156 \u0158 \u1E5A \u0210 \u0212 \u015A
    \u015C \u0160 \u0218 \u015E \u1E62 \u0166 \u0164 \u021A \u0162 \u1E6C \xD9 \xDA
    \xDB \xDC \u0168 \u016A \u016C \u016E \u0170 \u0172 \u1EE4 \u0214 \u0216 \u1E80
    \u1E82 \u1E84 \u0174 \xDD \u0176 \u0178 \u1EF2 \u1EF8 \u0179 \u017B \u017D \u1E92\r\n\r\n\xE0
    \xE1 \xE2 \xE3 \xE4 \xE5 \u0101 \u0103 \u0105 \u01FB \u0201 \u0203 \xE6 \u01FD
    \u0107 \xE7 \u0109 \u010B \u010D \u010F \u0111 \xF0 \u1E0D \u01F3 \u01C6 \xE8
    \xE9 \xEA \xEB \u0113 \u0115 \u0117 \u0119 \u011B \u1EBD \u1EB9 \u0205 \u0207
    \u0259 \u01F5 \u011D \u011F \u0121 \u0123 \u0125 \u0127 \u1E25 \xEC \xED \xEE
    \xEF \u0129 \u012B \u012F \u012D \u1ECB \u0209 \u020B \u0133 \u0135 \u0137 \u0138
    \u013A \u013C \u013E \u0140 \u0142 \u01C9 \u0144 \u0149 \u0146 \u0148 \xF1 \u1E45
    \u014B \u01CC \xF2 \xF3 \xF4 \xF5 \xF6 \xF8 \u014D \u014F \u0151 \u01FF \u01EB
    \u1ECD \u020D \u020F \u0153 \xFE \u0155 \u0157 \u0159 \u1E5B \u0211 \u0213 \u015B
    \u015D \u0161 \u0219 \u015F \u1E63 \xDF \u0167 \u0165 \u021B \u0163 \u1E6D \xF9
    \xFA \xFB \xFC \u0169 \u016B \u016D \u016F \u0171 \u0173 \u1EE5 \u0215 \u0217
    \xB5 \u03BC \u1E81 \u1E83 \u1E85 \u0175 \xFD \xFF \u0177 \u1EF3 \u1EF9 \u017A
    \u017C \u017E \u1E93\""
  created: '2014-12-18 11:41:17'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: What are the 104 Latin Languages? I'm pretty sure there are more than that...
  created: '2014-12-18 13:29:44'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "Thanks for all your answers. There is a high level of knowledge here and
    I hope you bear with me that I am in many ways a beginner. I design fonts, but
    I come from the design side, not the programming side. I haven\u2019t learned
    writing scripts in Python.\r\n\r\nAdditionally, I don\u2019t know the correct
    terminology for many things in font design. It\u2019s a huge field with an iceberg
    consisting of a broad variety of technologies and different approaches, and I
    understand that there are a lot of methods involved, ways some consider best practice
    and others decline in order to implement their own method. What I am looking for
    here is to learn how to find my own way, based on the expertise I get from you
    guys.\r\n\r\nLet me lay out where I\u2019m coming from:\r\n\r\nI began my work
    on Bot Mono with the Deja Vu set. It\u2019s based on Vera, but a lot of designers
    contributed a lot of characters, covering a number of unicode glyphs, of which
    I am sure many cover \u201Cstandard characters\u201D known in various language
    applications, ranging from basic latin to those including diacritics covering
    all of Europe, plus Greek, plus Cyrillic. I haven\u2019t seen combinations that
    are exclusive to, say, Celtic or Walisian, or maybe Old Greek \u2013 but what
    do I know? This is at the root of my problem, to find a *good measure*, to figure
    out the balance of which characters I should include to satisfy the needs of a
    lot of people, while I am sure I can never satisfy *all* user\u2019s needs.\r\n\r\nBecause
    Deja Vu contains a huge array of characters, I am overwhelmed with the decision
    of which I should remove. If I remove one that is also relevant for a different
    language, will I hurt that language \u201Cset\u201D by leaving it incomplete?
    To follow agisaak\u2019s method to clean the arrays of glyphs up: how do I decide
    which character to remove, if I don\u2019t know what language it is used in?\r\n\r\nWhat
    I would *wish* Fontlab could do would be that I click on a name on the unicode
    set, say, \u201CLatin\u201D, and it highlights the characters needed for it. But
    user friendliness is foreign to this application, as wonderful its capabilities
    are.\r\n\r\nWhat I would hope to end up with, after going through the school of
    learning it here, is that I can create *templates* for myself, which would include
    the \u201Cgood measure\u201D of covering languages I mentioned above, so I could
    make a decision like: \u201CThis font is more for programming and mathematics,
    so it should include this and that, but not this\u201D\u2026 \r\n\r\nI hope this
    makes my dilemma and possible solutions more transparent."
  created: '2014-12-18 19:15:58'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "One resource you might want to look at is\r\n\r\nhttp://www.eki.ee/letter/\r\n\r\nThe
    approach which you suggest isn't offered by any program that I'm aware of. While
    it would be convenient, it would be more difficult than it sounds because even
    determining which characters are needed for which languages are problematic. For
    example, which accented characters are required for English? None is the usual
    answer, despite the fact that words like 'r\xE9sum\xE9' etc. do occur in English
    texts, and some people still prefer older spellings such as 'co\xF6peration\".
    Similar issues arise in other languages, which is why the site above talks about
    'necessary' chaeacters vs. 'important' characters' among other categories.\r\n\r\nAndre"
  created: '2014-12-18 21:03:11'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Not especially informative:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/8_5887.jpg]\r\nIt
    is better when you need glyphs for Cham or Meetei Mayek or Chakma...\r\n[FontForge]"
  created: '2014-12-18 21:37:37'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: "Again, thanks for your support and advice! This was particularly helpful:
    http://www.eki.ee/letter/ \u2014 It\u2019s going to be a lot of work to go through
    all glyphs manually, so I think I will start from scratch and transfer the characters
    to a new, fresh document. That way I have more control over setting up the ranges
    of unicode."
  created: '2014-12-19 10:35:06'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "\"I suppose it would be a problem to do it in FontLab\"\r\n\r\nNo, FontLab
    Studio and TypeTool can handle up to 64K glyphs.\r\n\r\n\"What I would *wish*
    Fontlab could do would be that I click on a name on the unicode set, say, \u201CLatin\u201D,
    and it highlights the characters needed for it.\"\r\n\r\nIt does not do that for
    Unicode ranges... but it *does* do that for encodings.\r\n\r\nSo it is pretty
    darn easy to select an encoding, color all the glyphs for that encoding, and then
    do that repeatedly across several encodings you want to cover.\r\n\r\nNOTE that
    in the current app version, this is driven by glyph name rather than Unicode value,
    so when glyph names are other than what the encoding file expects, there will
    be misses. But otherwise, it's a fairly quick way to do some things.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2014-12-20 22:09:25'
- author:
    name: Core0
    picture: 123795
  body: This is very helpful, Thomas, thanks a lot!
  created: '2014-12-22 16:15:22'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<blockquote>when glyph names are other than what the encoding file expects,
    there will be misses\r\n</blockquote>\r\nThomas, I am puzzled by the way Fontlab
    is working (or not working) in that respect. I just downloaded dejavu-lgc-fonts-ttf-2.34.zip
    from http://dejavu-fonts.org/wiki/Download and opened DejaVu Sans Mono with the
    Fontlab Studio demo app. If I display directly with \"Name mode\" and the encoding
    \"OpenType LatCyrGrk WGL4\"  here is what I see, with \"macron\" and \"periodcentered\"
    greyed yet those characters bear those names in the font.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dejavumono-dejavucode_6167.png]\r\nIf
    I recode using \"Glyph &gt; Glyph Names &gt; Generate names...\" with the Recommended
    (no afiiXXX) names and \"try to keep existing glyph names\", the only greyed characters
    left are those that are actually not in the font. Fine, but why the problem with
    \"macron\" and \"periodcentered\" before recoding?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dejavumono-flabcode_5007.png]"
  created: '2014-12-23 21:01:43'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "[[http://typophile.com/node/122010#comment-595825|Question]]\r\nAfar, Afrikaans,
    Albanian, Azerbaijani, Basque, Belarusian, Bislama, Bosnian, Breton, Catalan,
    Chamorro, Chichewa, Comorian, Croatian, Czech, Danish, Dutch, English, Esperanto,
    Estonian, Faroese, Fijian, Filipino/Tagalog, Finnish, Flemish, French, Gaelic
    (Irish / Manx / Scottish), Gagauz, German, Gikuyu, Gilbertese/Kiribati, Greenlandic,
    Guarani, Haitian_Creole, Hawaiian, Hungarian, Icelandic, Igo/Igbo, Indonesian,
    Irish, Italian, Javanese, Kashubian, Kinyarwanda, Kirundi, Latin, Latvian, Lithuanian,
    Luba/Ciluba/Kasai, Luxembourgish, Malagasy, Malay, Maltese, Maori, Marquesan,
    Marshallese, Moldovan/Moldovian/Romanian, Montenegrin, Nauruan, Ndebele, Norwegian,
    Oromo, Palauan/Belauan, Polish, Portuguese, Quechua, Romanian, Romansh, Sami,
    Samoan, Sango, Serbian, Sesotho, Setswana/Sitswana/Tswana, Seychellois_Creole,
    SiSwati/Swati/Swazi, Silesian, Slovak, Slovenian, Somali, Sorbian, Sotho, Spanish,
    Swahili, Swedish, Tahitian, Tetum, Tok_Pisin, Tongan, Tsonga, Tswana, Tuareg/Berber,
    Turkish, Turkmen, Tuvaluan, Uzbek/Usbek, Wallisian, Walloon, Welsh, Xhosa, Yoruba,
    Zulu.\r\n(https://github.com/impallari/Encode-Sans)\r\nplus many American Indians
    languages."
  created: '2014-12-24 13:31:30'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: In the omniglot list http://www.omniglot.com/writing/langalph.htm#latin I
    count 454 languages using the latin script (very few being latin languages).
  created: '2014-12-24 21:45:31'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Have you tried clicking on that little red UNI button in the FL Font window
    and then scrolling through to see the various blocks of related glyphs? See attached:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/uniblocks_4401.png]"
  created: '2014-12-30 13:42:52'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: 'Underware.nl: [[http://underware.nl/latin_plus/download|Latin Plus is a character
    set, where all characters are mapped to languages.]]'
  created: '2015-01-09 15:53:46'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "That file from Underware.nl is interesting. If I add the missing tabs in
    the list of characters associated to each language and make the reverse table,
    I get this. \r\n<dl>\r\n<dt><code>U+00C0</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xC0</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin capital letter a with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alsatian, Aranese,
    Breton, Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Corsican, Delaware, French, Friulian, Genoese,
    German, Gooniyandi, Gwich\u2019in, Haitian Creole, Irish, Italian, Kala Lagaw
    Ya, Ladin, Lombard, Maasai, Makhuwa, Maltese, Neapolitan, Norwegian, Occitan,
    Piedmontese, Portuguese, Romansh, Sardinian, Scottish Gaelic, Sicilian, Swedish,
    Venetian, Welsh, Wolof.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00C1</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xC1</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter a with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aragonese,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Asturian, Cape Verdean Creole, Chickasaw, Czech, Danish,
    Dawan, Dutch, English, Faroese, Friulian, Galician, Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut),
    Haitian Creole, Hungarian, Icelandic, Irish, Italian, Kaingang, Kala Lagaw Ya,
    Ladin, Lombard, Maasai, Maltese, Marquesan, Mirandese, Neapolitan, Occidental,
    Occitan, Old Icelandic, Old Norse, Portuguese, Rarotongan, Sami (Inari Sami),
    Sami (Lule Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Slovak, Spanish, Swedish, Venetian, Welsh,
    Zapotec.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00C2</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xC2</strong> &nbsp; Latin
    capital letter a with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aromanian, Breton,
    Cape Verdean Creole, Chamorro, Corsican, Dutch, Folkspraak, French, Frisian, Friulian,
    Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), J\xE8rriais, Kaingang, Ladin, Luxembourgish,
    Maasai, Maltese, Moldovan, Montagnais, Portuguese, Romanian, Sami (Inari Sami),
    Sango, Turkish, Walloon, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00C3</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xC3</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter a with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aromanian,
    Cape Verdean Creole, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), Kashubian, Portuguese, Wolof,
    Xavante.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00C4</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xC4</strong> &nbsp; Latin
    capital letter a with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alsatian, Arvanitic
    (Latin), Aymara, Azerbaijani, Bashkir (Latin), Cimbrian, Dutch, Estonian, Finnish,
    Frisian, Gagauz (Latin), Genoese, German, Gooniyandi, H\xE4n, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kaqchikel,
    Karelian (Latin), Low Saxon, Luxembourgish, Norwegian, Ossetian (Latin), Piedmontese,
    Sami (Inari Sami), Sami (Lule Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Sami (Southern Sami),
    Sango, Slovak, Slovenian, Swedish, Turkmen (Latin), Vepsian, Volap\xFCk, V\xF5ro,
    Welsh, Yapese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00C5</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xC5</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin capital letter a with ring above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Chamorro,
    Danish, Faroese, Finnish, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), Gwich\u2019in, Istro-Romanian,
    Norwegian, Sami (Inari Sami), Sami (Lule Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Sami (Southern
    Sami), Swedish, Walloon.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00C6</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xC6</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter ae.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Breton, Danish,
    English, Faroese, Finnish, French, Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), Icelandic,
    Norwegian, Old Icelandic, Old Norse, Ossetian (Latin), Sami (Northern Sami), Sami
    (Southern Sami).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00C7</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xC7</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter c with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Albanian,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Azerbaijani, Bashkir (Latin), Breton, Cape Verdean
    Creole, Catalan, Crimean Tatar (Latin), English, French, Friulian, Gagauz (Latin),
    J\xE8rriais, Kurdish (Latin), Mirandese, Occitan, Portuguese, Sardinian, Turkish,
    Turkmen (Latin), Venetian, Walloon, Zazaki.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00C8</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\xC8</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter e with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Breton, Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Corsican, Delaware,
    Dutch, English, French, Friulian, Genoese, Guadeloupean Creole, Gwich\u2019in,
    Haitian Creole, Irish, Italian, J\xE8rriais, Kala Lagaw Ya, Ladin, Lombard, Luxembourgish,
    Maasai, Makhuwa, Maltese, Neapolitan, Occitan, Papiamento, Piedmontese, Portuguese,
    Potawatomi, Romansh, Sardinian, Scottish Gaelic, Sicilian, Venetian, Walloon,
    Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00C9</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xC9</strong> &nbsp; Latin
    capital letter e with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans, Alsatian,
    Aragonese, Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Asturian, Breton, Cape Verdean Creole,
    Catalan, Chickasaw, Czech, Danish, Dawan, Dutch, English, French, Frisian, Galician,
    Genoese, German, Gooniyandi, Guadeloupean Creole, Gwich\u2019in, Haitian Creole,
    Hungarian, Icelandic, Indonesian, Irish, Italian, J\xE8rriais, Kaingang, Kala
    Lagaw Ya, Kashubian, Kurdish (Latin), Ladin, Lombard, Luxembourgish, Maasai, Maltese,
    Marquesan, Mirandese, Neapolitan, Norwegian, Occidental, Occitan, Old Icelandic,
    Old Norse, Portuguese, Rarotongan, Romansh, Scottish Gaelic, Slovak, Spanish,
    Swedish, Venetian, Walloon, Welsh, Wolof, Xavante.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00CA</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xCA</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter e with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans,
    Breton, Cape Verdean Creole, Dawan, Dutch, English, Folkspraak, French, Frisian,
    Friulian, Gagauz (Latin), Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), J\xE8rriais, Kurdish
    (Latin), Ladin, Luxembourgish, Maasai, Maltese, Mirandese, Norwegian, Portuguese,
    Sango, Sotho (Northern), Tswana, Walloon, Welsh, Zazaki.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00CB</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xCB</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter e with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans,
    Albanian, Arvanitic (Latin), Breton, Delaware, Drehu, Dutch, English, French,
    Frisian, Genoese, H\xE4n, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kaqchikel, Kashubian, Ladin, Low Saxon,
    Luxembourgish, Occitan, Piedmontese, Sango, Swedish, Welsh, Wolof, Yapese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00CC</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xCC</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter i with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alsatian,
    Corsican, Delaware, Friulian, Genoese, Gwich\u2019in, Irish, Italian, Kala Lagaw
    Ya, Ladin, Lombard, Maasai, Makhuwa, Maltese, Meriam Mir, Neapolitan, Piedmontese,
    Romansh, Sardinian, Scottish Gaelic, Sicilian, Venetian, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00CD</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xCD</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter i with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aragonese,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Asturian, Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Chickasaw,
    Czech, Danish, Dawan, Dutch, Faroese, Galician, Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut),
    Gwich\u2019in, Hungarian, Icelandic, Irish, Italian, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kurdish (Latin),
    Lombard, Maasai, Maltese, Marquesan, Mirandese, Neapolitan, Occidental, Occitan,
    Old Icelandic, Old Norse, Portuguese, Rarotongan, Slovak, Spanish, Venetian, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00CE</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xCE</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter i with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans,
    Breton, Folkspraak, French, Frisian, Friulian, Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut),
    Italian, J\xE8rriais, Kurdish (Latin), Ladin, Luxembourgish, Maasai, Maltese,
    Moldovan, Montagnais, Romanian, Romansh, Sango, Turkish, Walloon, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00CF</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xCF</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter i with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Aymara, Breton, Catalan, Dutch, English, French, Frisian,
    Genoese, Italian, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kaqchikel, Low Saxon, Occitan, Piedmontese, Sami
    (Southern Sami), Sango, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00D0</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xD0</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter eth.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Faroese, Icelandic,
    Old Icelandic, Old Norse.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00D1</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xD1</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter n with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aragonese,
    Asturian, Aymara, Basque, Breton, Catalan, Chamorro, Chavacano, Cof\xE1n, Crimean
    Tatar (Latin), English, Filipino, Galician, Igbo, Quechua, Sami (Lule Sami), Spanish,
    Tetum, Waray-Waray, Wayuu, Wolof, Zapotec.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00D2</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\xD2</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter o with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aranese,
    Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Corsican, Delaware, Friulian, Genoese, Guadeloupean
    Creole, Gwich\u2019in, Haitian Creole, Irish, Italian, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kashubian,
    Ladin, Lombard, Maasai, Makhuwa, Maltese, Meriam Mir, Neapolitan, Norwegian, Occitan,
    Papiamento, Piedmontese, Portuguese, Romansh, Sardinian, Scottish Gaelic, Sicilian,
    Venetian, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00D3</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xD3</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter o with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aragonese,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Asturian, Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Chickasaw,
    Czech, Danish, Dawan, Dutch, Faroese, Galician, Genoese, Gwich\u2019in, Haitian
    Creole, Hungarian, Icelandic, Irish, Italian, Kaingang, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kashubian,
    Ladin, Lombard, Maasai, Maltese, Marquesan, Mirandese, Neapolitan, Norwegian,
    Occidental, Occitan, Old Icelandic, Old Norse, Polish, Portuguese, Rarotongan,
    Scottish Gaelic, Slovak, Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper Sorbian), Spanish,
    Venetian, Welsh, Wolof.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00D4</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xD4</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter o with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Abenaki,
    Afrikaans, Breton, Cape Verdean Creole, Dutch, English, Folkspraak, French, Frisian,
    Friulian, Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), J\xE8rriais, Kashubian, Ladin, Lombard,
    Luxembourgish, Maasai, Maltese, Mirandese, Norwegian, Portuguese, Sango, Slovak,
    Sotho (Northern), Tswana, Walloon, Welsh, Xavante.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00D5</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xD5</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter o with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cape
    Verdean Creole, Estonian, Finnish, Portuguese, V\xF5ro, Xavante.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00D6</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xD6</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter o with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alsatian,
    Arvanitic (Latin), Azerbaijani, Bashkir (Latin), Cimbrian, Crimean Tatar (Latin),
    Drehu, Dutch, English, Estonian, Faroese, Finnish, Frisian, Gagauz (Latin), Genoese,
    German, Gooniyandi, Hungarian, Icelandic, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kaqchikel, Karelian (Latin),
    Ladin, Low Saxon, Luxembourgish, Norwegian, Old Icelandic, Piedmontese, Sami (Inari
    Sami), Sami (Lule Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Sami (Southern Sami), Sango, Saramaccan,
    Seri, Slovenian, Swedish, Turkish, Turkmen (Latin), Vepsian, Volap\xFCk, V\xF5ro,
    Welsh, Xavante, Yapese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00D8</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xD8</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter o with stroke.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Danish,
    Faroese, Finnish, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), Lombard, Norwegian, Old Icelandic,
    Old Norse, Sami (Northern Sami), Sami (Southern Sami).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00D9</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xD9</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter u with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alsatian,
    Breton, Corsican, Delaware, French, Friulian, Genoese, Gwich\u2019in, Irish, Italian,
    Kala Lagaw Ya, Kashubian, Ladin, Lombard, Maasai, Makhuwa, Maltese, Meriam Mir,
    Neapolitan, Piedmontese, Romansh, Sardinian, Scottish Gaelic, Sicilian, Venetian,
    Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00DA</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xDA</strong> &nbsp; Latin
    capital letter u with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aragonese, Aranese,
    Arvanitic (Latin), Asturian, Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Chickasaw, Czech, Danish,
    Dawan, Dutch, Faroese, Frisian, Galician, Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut),
    Gwich\u2019in, Hungarian, Icelandic, Irish, Italian, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kurdish (Latin),
    Maasai, Maltese, Marquesan, Mirandese, Neapolitan, Occidental, Occitan, Old Icelandic,
    Old Norse, Portuguese, Rarotongan, Slovak, Spanish, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00DB</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xDB</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter u with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans,
    Breton, Cof\xE1n, Dawan, Dutch, Folkspraak, French, Frisian, Friulian, Greenlandic
    (Kalaallisut), J\xE8rriais, Kurdish (Latin), Ladin, Luxembourgish, Maasai, Maltese,
    Montagnais, Sango, Turkish, Walloon, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00DC</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\xDC</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter u with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alsatian,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Asturian, Aymara, Azerbaijani, Bashkir (Latin), Basque,
    Breton, Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Chamorro, Cimbrian, Cornish, Crimean Tatar
    (Latin), Dutch, Estonian, Finnish, French, Frisian, Gagauz (Latin), Galician,
    German, Gooniyandi, Hungarian, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kaqchikel, Ladin, Lombard, Low Saxon,
    Luxembourgish, Nahuatl, Norwegian, Occitan, Piedmontese, Portuguese, Romansh,
    Sango, Slovenian, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, Turkmen (Latin), Vepsian, Volap\xFCk,
    V\xF5ro, Wayuu, Welsh, Zazaki.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00DD</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xDD</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter y with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Arvanitic
    (Latin), Czech, Danish, Faroese, Icelandic, Old Icelandic, Old Norse, Slovak,
    Turkmen (Latin), Turkmen (Latin), Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00DE</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\xDE</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter thorn.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Icelandic,
    Old Icelandic.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00DF</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xDF</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin small letter sharp s.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;German, Gooniyandi,
    Low Saxon, Luxembourgish.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00E0</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xE0</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter a with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alsatian,
    Aranese, Breton, Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Corsican, Delaware, French, Friulian,
    Genoese, German, Gooniyandi, Gwich\u2019in, Haitian Creole, Irish, Italian, Kala
    Lagaw Ya, Ladin, Lombard, Maasai, Makhuwa, Maltese, Neapolitan, Norwegian, Occitan,
    Piedmontese, Portuguese, Romansh, Sardinian, Scottish Gaelic, Sicilian, Swedish,
    Venetian, Welsh, Wolof.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00E1</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xE1</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter a with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aragonese,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Asturian, Cape Verdean Creole, Chickasaw, Czech, Danish,
    Dawan, Dutch, English, Faroese, Friulian, Galician, Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut),
    Haitian Creole, Hungarian, Icelandic, Irish, Italian, Kaingang, Kala Lagaw Ya,
    Ladin, Lombard, Maasai, Maltese, Marquesan, Mirandese, Neapolitan, Occidental,
    Occitan, Old Icelandic, Old Norse, Portuguese, Rarotongan, Sami (Inari Sami),
    Sami (Lule Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Slovak, Spanish, Swedish, Venetian, Welsh,
    Zapotec.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00E2</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xE2</strong> &nbsp; Latin
    small letter a with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aromanian, Breton,
    Cape Verdean Creole, Chamorro, Corsican, Dutch, Folkspraak, French, Frisian, Friulian,
    Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), J\xE8rriais, Kaingang, Ladin, Luxembourgish,
    Maasai, Maltese, Moldovan, Montagnais, Portuguese, Romanian, Sami (Inari Sami),
    Sango, Turkish, Walloon, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00E3</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xE3</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter a with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aromanian,
    Cape Verdean Creole, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), Kashubian, Portuguese, Wolof,
    Xavante.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00E4</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xE4</strong> &nbsp; Latin
    small letter a with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alsatian, Arvanitic
    (Latin), Aymara, Azerbaijani, Bashkir (Latin), Cimbrian, Dutch, Estonian, Finnish,
    Frisian, Gagauz (Latin), Genoese, German, Gooniyandi, H\xE4n, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kaqchikel,
    Karelian (Latin), Low Saxon, Luxembourgish, Norwegian, Ossetian (Latin), Piedmontese,
    Sami (Inari Sami), Sami (Lule Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Sami (Southern Sami),
    Sango, Slovak, Slovenian, Swedish, Turkmen (Latin), Vepsian, Volap\xFCk, V\xF5ro,
    Welsh, Yapese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00E5</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xE5</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin small letter a with ring above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Chamorro,
    Danish, Faroese, Finnish, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), Gwich\u2019in, Istro-Romanian,
    Norwegian, Sami (Inari Sami), Sami (Lule Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Sami (Southern
    Sami), Swedish, Walloon.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00E6</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xE6</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter ae.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Breton, Danish, English,
    Faroese, Finnish, French, Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), Icelandic, Norwegian,
    Old Icelandic, Old Norse, Ossetian (Latin), Sami (Northern Sami), Sami (Southern
    Sami).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00E7</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xE7</strong> &nbsp; Latin
    small letter c with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Albanian, Aranese,
    Arvanitic (Latin), Azerbaijani, Bashkir (Latin), Breton, Cape Verdean Creole,
    Catalan, Crimean Tatar (Latin), English, French, Friulian, Gagauz (Latin), J\xE8rriais,
    Kurdish (Latin), Mirandese, Occitan, Portuguese, Sardinian, Turkish, Turkmen (Latin),
    Venetian, Walloon, Zazaki.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00E8</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xE8</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter e with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Breton, Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Corsican, Delaware,
    Dutch, English, French, Friulian, Genoese, Guadeloupean Creole, Gwich\u2019in,
    Haitian Creole, Irish, Italian, J\xE8rriais, Kala Lagaw Ya, Ladin, Lombard, Luxembourgish,
    Maasai, Makhuwa, Maltese, Neapolitan, Occitan, Papiamento, Piedmontese, Portuguese,
    Potawatomi, Romansh, Sardinian, Scottish Gaelic, Sicilian, Venetian, Walloon,
    Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00E9</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xE9</strong> &nbsp; Latin
    small letter e with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans, Alsatian,
    Aragonese, Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Asturian, Breton, Cape Verdean Creole,
    Catalan, Chickasaw, Czech, Danish, Dawan, Dutch, English, French, Frisian, Galician,
    Genoese, German, Gooniyandi, Guadeloupean Creole, Gwich\u2019in, Haitian Creole,
    Hungarian, Icelandic, Indonesian, Irish, Italian, J\xE8rriais, Kaingang, Kala
    Lagaw Ya, Kashubian, Kurdish (Latin), Ladin, Lombard, Luxembourgish, Maasai, Maltese,
    Marquesan, Mirandese, Neapolitan, Norwegian, Occidental, Occitan, Old Icelandic,
    Old Norse, Portuguese, Rarotongan, Romansh, Scottish Gaelic, Slovak, Spanish,
    Swedish, Venetian, Walloon, Welsh, Wolof, Xavante.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00EA</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xEA</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter e with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans,
    Breton, Cape Verdean Creole, Dawan, Dutch, English, Folkspraak, French, Frisian,
    Friulian, Gagauz (Latin), Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), J\xE8rriais, Kurdish
    (Latin), Ladin, Luxembourgish, Maasai, Maltese, Mirandese, Norwegian, Portuguese,
    Sango, Sotho (Northern), Tswana, Walloon, Welsh, Zazaki.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00EB</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xEB</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter e with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans,
    Albanian, Arvanitic (Latin), Breton, Delaware, Drehu, Dutch, English, French,
    Frisian, Genoese, H\xE4n, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kaqchikel, Kashubian, Ladin, Low Saxon,
    Luxembourgish, Occitan, Piedmontese, Sango, Swedish, Welsh, Wolof, Yapese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00EC</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xEC</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter i with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alsatian,
    Corsican, Delaware, Friulian, Genoese, Gwich\u2019in, Irish, Italian, Kala Lagaw
    Ya, Ladin, Lombard, Maasai, Makhuwa, Maltese, Meriam Mir, Neapolitan, Piedmontese,
    Romansh, Sardinian, Scottish Gaelic, Sicilian, Venetian, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00ED</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xED</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter i with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aragonese,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Asturian, Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Chickasaw,
    Czech, Danish, Dawan, Dutch, Faroese, Galician, Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut),
    Gwich\u2019in, Hungarian, Icelandic, Irish, Italian, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kurdish (Latin),
    Lombard, Maasai, Maltese, Marquesan, Mirandese, Neapolitan, Occidental, Occitan,
    Old Icelandic, Old Norse, Portuguese, Rarotongan, Slovak, Spanish, Venetian, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00EE</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xEE</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter i with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans,
    Breton, Folkspraak, French, Frisian, Friulian, Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut),
    Italian, J\xE8rriais, Kurdish (Latin), Ladin, Luxembourgish, Maasai, Maltese,
    Moldovan, Montagnais, Romanian, Romansh, Sango, Turkish, Walloon, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00EF</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xEF</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter i with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Aymara, Breton, Catalan, Dutch, English, French, Frisian,
    Genoese, Italian, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kaqchikel, Low Saxon, Occitan, Piedmontese, Sami
    (Southern Sami), Sango, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00F0</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xF0</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter eth.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Faroese, Icelandic,
    Old Icelandic, Old Norse.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00F1</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xF1</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter n with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aragonese,
    Asturian, Aymara, Basque, Breton, Catalan, Chamorro, Chavacano, Cof\xE1n, Crimean
    Tatar (Latin), English, Filipino, Galician, Igbo, Quechua, Sami (Lule Sami), Spanish,
    Tetum, Waray-Waray, Wayuu, Wolof, Zapotec.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00F2</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\xF2</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter o with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aranese,
    Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Corsican, Delaware, Friulian, Genoese, Guadeloupean
    Creole, Gwich\u2019in, Haitian Creole, Irish, Italian, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kashubian,
    Ladin, Lombard, Maasai, Makhuwa, Maltese, Meriam Mir, Neapolitan, Norwegian, Occitan,
    Papiamento, Piedmontese, Portuguese, Romansh, Sardinian, Scottish Gaelic, Sicilian,
    Venetian, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00F3</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xF3</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter o with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aragonese,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Asturian, Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Chickasaw,
    Czech, Danish, Dawan, Dutch, Faroese, Galician, Genoese, Gwich\u2019in, Haitian
    Creole, Hungarian, Icelandic, Irish, Italian, Kaingang, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kashubian,
    Ladin, Lombard, Maasai, Maltese, Marquesan, Mirandese, Neapolitan, Norwegian,
    Occidental, Occitan, Old Icelandic, Old Norse, Polish, Portuguese, Rarotongan,
    Scottish Gaelic, Slovak, Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper Sorbian), Spanish,
    Venetian, Welsh, Wolof.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00F4</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xF4</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter o with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Abenaki,
    Afrikaans, Breton, Cape Verdean Creole, Dutch, English, Folkspraak, French, Frisian,
    Friulian, Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), J\xE8rriais, Kashubian, Ladin, Lombard,
    Luxembourgish, Maasai, Maltese, Mirandese, Norwegian, Portuguese, Sango, Slovak,
    Sotho (Northern), Tswana, Walloon, Welsh, Xavante.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00F5</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xF5</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter o with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cape
    Verdean Creole, Estonian, Finnish, Portuguese, V\xF5ro, Xavante.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00F6</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xF6</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter o with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alsatian,
    Arvanitic (Latin), Azerbaijani, Bashkir (Latin), Cimbrian, Crimean Tatar (Latin),
    Drehu, Dutch, English, Estonian, Faroese, Finnish, Frisian, Gagauz (Latin), Genoese,
    German, Gooniyandi, Hungarian, Icelandic, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kaqchikel, Karelian (Latin),
    Ladin, Low Saxon, Luxembourgish, Norwegian, Old Icelandic, Piedmontese, Sami (Inari
    Sami), Sami (Lule Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Sami (Southern Sami), Sango, Saramaccan,
    Seri, Slovenian, Swedish, Turkish, Turkmen (Latin), Vepsian, Volap\xFCk, V\xF5ro,
    Welsh, Xavante, Yapese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00F8</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xF8</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter o with stroke.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Danish,
    Faroese, Finnish, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), Lombard, Norwegian, Old Icelandic,
    Old Norse, Sami (Northern Sami), Sami (Southern Sami).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00F9</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xF9</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter u with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alsatian,
    Breton, Corsican, Delaware, French, Friulian, Genoese, Gwich\u2019in, Irish, Italian,
    Kala Lagaw Ya, Kashubian, Ladin, Lombard, Maasai, Makhuwa, Maltese, Meriam Mir,
    Neapolitan, Piedmontese, Romansh, Sardinian, Scottish Gaelic, Sicilian, Venetian,
    Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00FA</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xFA</strong> &nbsp; Latin
    small letter u with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aragonese, Aranese, Arvanitic
    (Latin), Asturian, Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Chickasaw, Czech, Danish, Dawan,
    Dutch, Faroese, Frisian, Galician, Genoese, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), Gwich\u2019in,
    Hungarian, Icelandic, Irish, Italian, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kurdish (Latin), Maasai,
    Maltese, Marquesan, Mirandese, Neapolitan, Occidental, Occitan, Old Icelandic,
    Old Norse, Portuguese, Rarotongan, Slovak, Spanish, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00FB</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xFB</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter u with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans,
    Breton, Cof\xE1n, Dawan, Dutch, Folkspraak, French, Frisian, Friulian, Greenlandic
    (Kalaallisut), J\xE8rriais, Kurdish (Latin), Ladin, Luxembourgish, Maasai, Maltese,
    Montagnais, Sango, Turkish, Walloon, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00FC</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\xFC</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter u with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Alsatian,
    Aranese, Arvanitic (Latin), Asturian, Aymara, Azerbaijani, Bashkir (Latin), Basque,
    Breton, Cape Verdean Creole, Catalan, Chamorro, Cimbrian, Cornish, Crimean Tatar
    (Latin), Dutch, Estonian, Finnish, French, Frisian, Gagauz (Latin), Galician,
    German, Gooniyandi, Hungarian, Kala Lagaw Ya, Kaqchikel, Ladin, Lombard, Low Saxon,
    Luxembourgish, Nahuatl, Norwegian, Occitan, Piedmontese, Portuguese, Romansh,
    Sango, Slovenian, Spanish, Swedish, Turkish, Turkmen (Latin), Vepsian, Volap\xFCk,
    V\xF5ro, Wayuu, Welsh, Zazaki.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00FD</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xFD</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter y with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Arvanitic
    (Latin), Czech, Danish, Faroese, Icelandic, Old Icelandic, Old Norse, Slovak,
    Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00FE</code> &nbsp; <strong>\xFE</strong> &nbsp; Latin
    small letter thorn.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Icelandic, Old Icelandic.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+00FF</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\xFF</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter y with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Breton,
    French, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0100</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0100</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter a with macron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cornish,
    Hawaiian, Kurdish (Latin), Latvian, M\u0101ori, Nahuatl, Niuean, Noongar, Tahitian,
    Tongan, Tuvaluan, Wallisian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0101</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0101</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter a with macron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cornish,
    Hawaiian, Kurdish (Latin), Latvian, M\u0101ori, Nahuatl, Niuean, Noongar, Tahitian,
    Tongan, Tuvaluan, Wallisian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0102</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0102</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter a with breve.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aromanian,
    Istro-Romanian, Kurdish (Latin), Megleno-Romanian, Moldovan, Romanian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0103</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0103</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter a with breve.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aromanian,
    Istro-Romanian, Kurdish (Latin), Megleno-Romanian, Moldovan, Romanian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0104</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0104</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter a with ogonek.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hotc\u0105k
    (Latin), Kashubian, Lithuanian, Polish.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0105</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\u0105</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter a with ogonek.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hotc\u0105k
    (Latin), Kashubian, Lithuanian, Polish.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0106</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\u0106</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter c with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Belarusian
    (Latin), Bosnian, Cimbrian, Croatian, Ladin, Montenegrin, Polish, Serbian (Latin),
    Silesian, Slovenian, Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0107</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0107</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter c with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Belarusian
    (Latin), Bosnian, Cimbrian, Croatian, Ladin, Montenegrin, Polish, Serbian (Latin),
    Silesian, Slovenian, Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0108</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0108</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter c with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Esperanto.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0109</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0109</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter c with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Esperanto.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+010A</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u010A</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter c with dot above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maltese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+010B</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u010B</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter c with dot above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maltese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+010C</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u010C</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter c with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bashkir
    (Latin), Belarusian (Latin), Bosnian, Croatian, Czech, Karelian (Latin), Latvian,
    Lithuanian, Montenegrin, Ossetian (Latin), Sami (Inari Sami), Sami (Northern Sami),
    Serbian (Latin), Silesian, Slovak, Slovenian, Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian
    (Upper Sorbian), Vepsian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+010D</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u010D</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter c with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bashkir
    (Latin), Belarusian (Latin), Bosnian, Croatian, Czech, Karelian (Latin), Latvian,
    Lithuanian, Montenegrin, Ossetian (Latin), Sami (Inari Sami), Sami (Northern Sami),
    Serbian (Latin), Silesian, Slovak, Slovenian, Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian
    (Upper Sorbian), Vepsian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+010E</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u010E</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter d with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Czech,
    Slovak.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+010F</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u010F</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin small letter d with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Czech, Slovak.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0110</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0110</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter d with stroke.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bosnian,
    Croatian, Montenegrin, Sami (Inari Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Serbian (Latin),
    Slovenian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0111</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0111</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin small letter d with stroke.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bosnian, Croatian,
    Montenegrin, Sami (Inari Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Serbian (Latin), Slovenian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0112</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0112</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter e with macron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cornish,
    Creek, Hawaiian, Kurdish (Latin), Latvian, M\u0101ori, Nahuatl, Niuean, Noongar,
    Tahitian, Tongan, Tuvaluan, Wallisian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0113</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\u0113</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter e with macron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cornish,
    Creek, Hawaiian, Kurdish (Latin), Latvian, M\u0101ori, Nahuatl, Niuean, Noongar,
    Tahitian, Tongan, Tuvaluan, Wallisian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0114</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\u0114</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter e with breve.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kurdish
    (Latin), On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0115</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0115</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter e with breve.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kurdish
    (Latin), On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0116</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0116</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter e with dot above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lithuanian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0117</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0117</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter e with dot above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Lithuanian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0118</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0118</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter e with ogonek.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kashubian,
    Lithuanian, Polish.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0119</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0119</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter e with ogonek.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kashubian,
    Lithuanian, Polish.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+011A</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u011A</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter e with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Czech,
    Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+011B</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u011B</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter e with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Czech,
    Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+011C</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u011C</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter g with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Esperanto.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+011D</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u011D</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter g with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Esperanto.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+011E</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u011E</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter g with breve.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Azerbaijani,
    Bashkir (Latin), Crimean Tatar (Latin), Gagauz (Latin), Hotc\u0105k (Latin), Turkish.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+011F</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u011F</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter g with breve.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Azerbaijani,
    Bashkir (Latin), Crimean Tatar (Latin), Gagauz (Latin), Hotc\u0105k (Latin), Turkish.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0120</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0120</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter g with dot above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maltese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0121</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0121</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter g with dot above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maltese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0122</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0122</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter g with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Latvian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0123</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0123</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter g with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Latvian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0124</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0124</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter h with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Esperanto.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0125</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0125</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter h with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Esperanto.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0126</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0126</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter h with stroke.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maltese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0127</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0127</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter h with stroke.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Maltese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0128</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0128</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter i with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Breton,
    Gikuyu, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), Kaingang, Xavante.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0129</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0129</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter i with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Breton,
    Gikuyu, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), Kaingang, Xavante.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+012A</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u012A</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter i with macron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cornish,
    Hawaiian, Kurdish (Latin), Latvian, M\u0101ori, Nahuatl, Niuean, Noongar, Tahitian,
    Tongan, Tuvaluan, Wallisian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+012B</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u012B</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter i with macron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cornish,
    Hawaiian, Kurdish (Latin), Latvian, M\u0101ori, Nahuatl, Niuean, Noongar, Tahitian,
    Tongan, Tuvaluan, Wallisian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+012C</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u012C</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter i with breve.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kurdish
    (Latin).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+012D</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u012D</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin small letter i with breve.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kurdish (Latin).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+012E</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u012E</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter i with ogonek.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hotc\u0105k
    (Latin), Lithuanian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+012F</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u012F</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter i with ogonek.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hotc\u0105k
    (Latin), Lithuanian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0130</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0130</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter i with dot above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Azerbaijani,
    Bashkir (Latin), Gagauz (Latin), Karakalpak (Latin), Turkish, Zazaki.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0131</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0131</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter dotless i.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Azerbaijani,
    Bashkir (Latin), Gagauz (Latin), Karakalpak (Latin), Turkish, Zazaki.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0132</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0132</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital ligature ij.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dutch.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0133</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0133</strong> &nbsp; Latin small ligature ij.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dutch.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0134</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0134</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter j with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Esperanto.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0135</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0135</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter j with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Esperanto.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0136</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0136</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter k with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bashkir
    (Latin), Latvian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0137</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0137</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter k with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bashkir
    (Latin), Latvian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0138</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0138</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter kra.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Greenlandic (Kalaallisut).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0139</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0139</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter l with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Slovak.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+013A</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u013A</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter l with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Slovak.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+013B</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u013B</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter l with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Latvian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+013C</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u013C</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter l with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Latvian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+013D</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u013D</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter l with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Istro-Romanian,
    Megleno-Romanian, Slovak.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+013E</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u013E</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter l with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Istro-Romanian,
    Megleno-Romanian, Slovak.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+013F</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u013F</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter l with middle dot.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Catalan.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0140</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0140</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter l with middle dot.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Catalan.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0141</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0141</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter l with stroke.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Belarusian
    (Latin), Gwich\u2019in, Kashubian, Polish, Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper
    Sorbian), Venetian, Zuni.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0142</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0142</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter l with stroke.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Belarusian
    (Latin), Gwich\u2019in, Kashubian, Polish, Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper
    Sorbian), Venetian, Zuni.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0143</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0143</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter n with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Belarusian
    (Latin), Istro-Romanian, Kashubian, Megleno-Romanian, Polish, Sami (Lule Sami),
    Silesian, Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0144</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0144</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter n with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Belarusian
    (Latin), Istro-Romanian, Kashubian, Megleno-Romanian, Polish, Sami (Lule Sami),
    Silesian, Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0145</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0145</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter n with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bashkir
    (Latin), Latvian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0146</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0146</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter n with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bashkir
    (Latin), Latvian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0147</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0147</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter n with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Czech,
    Slovak, Turkmen (Latin).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0148</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0148</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter n with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Czech, Slovak,
    Turkmen (Latin).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0149</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0149</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter n preceded by apostrophe.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Afrikaans.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+014A</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u014A</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter eng.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Atayal,
    Bemba, Chichewa, Ganda, Gikuyu, Maasai, Sami (Inari Sami), Sami (Northern Sami),
    Wolof, Zarma.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+014B</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u014B</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin small letter eng.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Atayal, Bemba, Chichewa,
    Ganda, Gikuyu, Maasai, Sami (Inari Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Wolof, Zarma.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+014C</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u014C</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter o with macron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cornish,
    Hawaiian, Kurdish (Latin), Latvian, M\u0101ori, Nahuatl, Niuean, Noongar, Tahitian,
    Tongan, Tuvaluan, Wallisian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+014D</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u014D</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter o with macron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cornish,
    Hawaiian, Kurdish (Latin), Latvian, M\u0101ori, Nahuatl, Niuean, Noongar, Tahitian,
    Tongan, Tuvaluan, Wallisian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+014E</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u014E</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter o with breve.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kurdish
    (Latin), On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+014F</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u014F</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter o with breve.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kurdish
    (Latin), On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0150</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0150</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter o with double acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hungarian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0151</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0151</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter o with double acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hungarian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0152</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0152</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital ligature oe.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Breton,
    English, French, Old Icelandic, Old Norse.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0153</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\u0153</strong> &nbsp; Latin small ligature oe.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Breton,
    English, French, Old Icelandic, Old Norse.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0154</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\u0154</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter r with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Slovak,
    Sorbian (Lower Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0155</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0155</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter r with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Slovak,
    Sorbian (Lower Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0156</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0156</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter r with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Latvian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0157</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0157</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter r with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Latvian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0158</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0158</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter r with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Czech,
    Silesian, Sorbian (Upper Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0159</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0159</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter r with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Czech, Silesian,
    Sorbian (Upper Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+015A</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u015A</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter s with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bashkir
    (Latin), Belarusian (Latin), Kashubian, Ladin, Montenegrin, Polish, Silesian,
    Sorbian (Lower Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+015B</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u015B</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter s with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bashkir
    (Latin), Belarusian (Latin), Kashubian, Ladin, Montenegrin, Polish, Silesian,
    Sorbian (Lower Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+015C</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u015C</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter s with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Esperanto.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+015D</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u015D</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter s with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Esperanto.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+015E</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u015E</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter s with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Azerbaijani,
    Bashkir (Latin), Crimean Tatar (Latin), Gagauz (Latin), Turkmen (Latin), Zazaki.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+015F</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u015F</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter s with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Azerbaijani,
    Bashkir (Latin), Crimean Tatar (Latin), Gagauz (Latin), Turkmen (Latin), Zazaki.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0160</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0160</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter s with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bashkir
    (Latin), Belarusian (Latin), Bosnian, Croatian, Czech, Estonian, Finnish, Hotc\u0105k
    (Latin), Karelian (Latin), Latvian, Lithuanian, Montenegrin, Ossetian (Latin),
    Sami (Inari Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Serbian (Latin), Silesian, Slovak, Slovenian,
    Sorbian (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper Sorbian), Sotho (Northern), Tswana, Vepsian,
    V\xF5ro.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0161</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0161</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin small letter s with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bashkir (Latin),
    Belarusian (Latin), Bosnian, Croatian, Czech, Estonian, Finnish, Hotc\u0105k (Latin),
    Karelian (Latin), Latvian, Lithuanian, Montenegrin, Ossetian (Latin), Sami (Inari
    Sami), Sami (Northern Sami), Serbian (Latin), Silesian, Slovak, Slovenian, Sorbian
    (Lower Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper Sorbian), Sotho (Northern), Tswana, Vepsian, V\xF5ro.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0162</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0162</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter t with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Gagauz
    (Latin), On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0163</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0163</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter t with cedilla.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Gagauz
    (Latin), On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0164</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0164</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter t with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Czech,
    Slovak.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0165</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0165</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin small letter t with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Czech, Slovak.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0166</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0166</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter t with stroke.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sami
    (Northern Sami).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0167</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0167</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter t with stroke.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Sami (Northern
    Sami).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0168</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0168</strong> &nbsp; Latin
    capital letter u with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Breton, Gikuyu, Greenlandic
    (Kalaallisut), Mirandese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0169</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0169</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter u with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Breton,
    Gikuyu, Greenlandic (Kalaallisut), Mirandese.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+016A</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u016A</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter u with macron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cornish,
    Hawaiian, Kurdish (Latin), Latvian, Lithuanian, M\u0101ori, Nahuatl, Niuean, Noongar,
    Tahitian, Tongan, Tuvaluan, Wallisian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+016B</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\u016B</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter u with macron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cornish,
    Hawaiian, Kurdish (Latin), Latvian, Lithuanian, M\u0101ori, Nahuatl, Niuean, Noongar,
    Tahitian, Tongan, Tuvaluan, Wallisian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+016C</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\u016C</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter u with breve.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Belarusian
    (Latin), Esperanto, Kurdish (Latin).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+016D</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u016D</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter u with breve.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Belarusian
    (Latin), Esperanto, Kurdish (Latin).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+016E</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u016E</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter u with ring above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Czech,
    Silesian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+016F</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u016F</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin small letter u with ring above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Czech, Silesian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0170</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0170</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter u with double acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hungarian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0171</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0171</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter u with double acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hungarian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0172</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0172</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter u with ogonek.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hotc\u0105k
    (Latin), Lithuanian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0173</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0173</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter u with ogonek.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Hotc\u0105k
    (Latin), Lithuanian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0174</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0174</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter w with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Chichewa,
    Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0175</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0175</strong> &nbsp; Latin
    small letter w with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Chichewa, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0176</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0176</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter y with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0177</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0177</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter y with circumflex.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0178</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0178</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter y with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Breton,
    French, Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0179</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0179</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter z with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bashkir
    (Latin), Belarusian (Latin), Montenegrin, Polish, Silesian, Sorbian (Lower Sorbian),
    Sorbian (Upper Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+017A</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u017A</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter z with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Bashkir
    (Latin), Belarusian (Latin), Montenegrin, Polish, Silesian, Sorbian (Lower Sorbian),
    Sorbian (Upper Sorbian).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+017B</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u017B</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter z with dot above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kashubian,
    Maltese, Polish, Silesian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+017C</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u017C</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter z with dot above.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kashubian,
    Maltese, Polish, Silesian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+017D</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u017D</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter z with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Belarusian
    (Latin), Bosnian, Croatian, Czech, Estonian, Finnish, Hotc\u0105k (Latin), Karelian
    (Latin), Latvian, Lithuanian, Montenegrin, Ossetian (Latin), Sami (Inari Sami),
    Sami (Northern Sami), Serbian (Latin), Silesian, Slovak, Slovenian, Sorbian (Lower
    Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper Sorbian), Turkmen (Latin), Vepsian, V\xF5ro.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+017E</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u017E</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter z with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Belarusian
    (Latin), Bosnian, Croatian, Czech, Estonian, Finnish, Hotc\u0105k (Latin), Karelian
    (Latin), Latvian, Lithuanian, Montenegrin, Ossetian (Latin), Sami (Inari Sami),
    Sami (Northern Sami), Serbian (Latin), Silesian, Slovak, Slovenian, Sorbian (Lower
    Sorbian), Sorbian (Upper Sorbian), Turkmen (Latin), Vepsian, V\xF5ro.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+018F</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u018F</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter schwa.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Azerbaijani.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+019D</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u019D</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter n with left hook.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Zarma.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+01E6</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u01E6</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter g with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Zazaki.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+01E7</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u01E7</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter g with caron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Zazaki.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+01EA</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u01EA</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter o with ogonek.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Old
    Icelandic, Old Norse.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+01EB</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u01EB</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter o with ogonek.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Old Icelandic,
    Old Norse.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+01FA</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u01FA</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin capital letter a with ring above and acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Danish.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+01FB</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u01FB</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter a with ring above and
    acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Danish.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+01FC</code> &nbsp;
    <strong>\u01FC</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter ae with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Danish,
    Icelandic, Old Icelandic, Old Norse.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+01FD</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u01FD</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter ae with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Danish,
    Icelandic, Old Icelandic, Old Norse.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+01FE</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u01FE</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter o with stroke and acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Danish,
    Icelandic, Old Icelandic.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+01FF</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u01FF</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter o with stroke and acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Danish,
    Icelandic, Old Icelandic.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0218</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0218</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter s with comma below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aromanian,
    Gagauz (Latin), Istro-Romanian, Kurdish (Latin), Megleno-Romanian, Moldovan, Romanian,
    Turkish, Turkmen (Latin).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0219</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0219</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin small letter s with comma below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aromanian,
    Gagauz (Latin), Istro-Romanian, Kurdish (Latin), Megleno-Romanian, Moldovan, Romanian,
    Turkish, Turkmen (Latin).</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+021A</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u021A</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter t with comma below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aromanian,
    Gagauz (Latin), Istro-Romanian, Megleno-Romanian, Moldovan, Romanian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+021B</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u021B</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter t with comma below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Aromanian,
    Gagauz (Latin), Istro-Romanian, Megleno-Romanian, Moldovan, Romanian.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0232</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0232</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter y with macron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cornish,
    Nahuatl.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0233</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u0233</strong> &nbsp;
    Latin small letter y with macron.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Cornish, Nahuatl.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0237</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0237</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter dotless j.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0259</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0259</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter schwa.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Azerbaijani.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+0272</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u0272</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter n with left hook.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Zarma.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1E80</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1E80</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter w with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1E81</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1E81</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter w with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1E82</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1E82</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter w with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1E83</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1E83</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter w with acute.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1E84</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1E84</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter w with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1E85</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1E85</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter w with diaeresis.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1E9E</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1E9E</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter sharp s.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;German,
    Gooniyandi, Low Saxon, Luxembourgish.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1EA0</code> &nbsp; <strong>\u1EA0</strong>
    &nbsp; Latin capital letter a with dot below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1EA1</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1EA1</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter a with dot below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1EB8</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1EB8</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter e with dot below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1EB9</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1EB9</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter e with dot below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1EBC</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1EBC</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter e with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1EBD</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1EBD</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter e with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;On\u0115ip\u014Ft.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1ECA</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1ECA</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter i with dot below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Igbo.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1ECB</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1ECB</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter i with dot below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Igbo.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1ECC</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1ECC</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter o with dot below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Igbo.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1ECD</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1ECD</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter o with dot below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Igbo.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1EE4</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1EE4</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter u with dot below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Igbo.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1EE5</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1EE5</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter u with dot below.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Igbo.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1EF2</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1EF2</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter y with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1EF3</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1EF3</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter y with grave.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Welsh.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1EF8</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1EF8</strong> &nbsp; Latin capital letter y with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kaingang.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+1EF9</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\u1EF9</strong> &nbsp; Latin small letter y with tilde.</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Kaingang.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+E132</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\uE132</strong> &nbsp; (ijacute).</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dutch.</dd>\r\n<dt><code>U+E133</code>
    &nbsp; <strong>\uE133</strong> &nbsp; (IJacute).</dt>\r\n<dd>&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dutch.</dd>\r\n</dl>"
  created: '2015-01-10 04:25:55'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Even though the Underware Latin Plus encoding file lists more than 200 languages,
    it is still missing the following characters from \u201Cthe 104 latin languages\u201D
    listed by Pablo Impallari.\r\n\r\n<code>01C4</code> <strong>\u01C4</strong>, <code>01C5</code>
    <strong>\u01C5</strong>, <code>01C6</code> <strong>\u01C6</strong>, <code>01C7</code>
    <strong>\u01C7</strong>, <code>01C8</code> <strong>\u01C8</strong>, <code>01C9</code>
    <strong>\u01C9</strong>, <code>01CA</code> <strong>\u01CA</strong>, <code>01CB</code>
    <strong>\u01CB</strong>, <code>01CC</code> <strong>\u01CC</strong>, <code>01F1</code>
    <strong>\u01F1</strong>, <code>01F2</code> <strong>\u01F2</strong>, <code>01F3</code>
    <strong>\u01F3</strong>, <code>01F4</code> <strong>\u01F4</strong>, <code>01F5</code>
    <strong>\u01F5</strong>, <code>0200</code> <strong>\u0200</strong>, <code>0201</code>
    <strong>\u0201</strong>, <code>0202</code> <strong>\u0202</strong>, <code>0203</code>
    <strong>\u0203</strong>, <code>0204</code> <strong>\u0204</strong>, <code>0205</code>
    <strong>\u0205</strong>, <code>0206</code> <strong>\u0206</strong>, <code>0207</code>
    <strong>\u0207</strong>, <code>0208</code> <strong>\u0208</strong>, <code>0209</code>
    <strong>\u0209</strong>, <code>020A</code> <strong>\u020A</strong>, <code>020B</code>
    <strong>\u020B</strong>, <code>020C</code> <strong>\u020C</strong>, <code>020D</code>
    <strong>\u020D</strong>, <code>020E</code> <strong>\u020E</strong>, <code>020F</code>
    <strong>\u020F</strong>, <code>0210</code> <strong>\u0210</strong>, <code>0211</code>
    <strong>\u0211</strong>, <code>0212</code> <strong>\u0212</strong>, <code>0213</code>
    <strong>\u0213</strong>, <code>0214</code> <strong>\u0214</strong>, <code>0215</code>
    <strong>\u0215</strong>, <code>0216</code> <strong>\u0216</strong>, <code>0217</code>
    <strong>\u0217</strong>, <code>1E0C</code> <strong>\u1E0C</strong>, <code>1E0D</code>
    <strong>\u1E0D</strong>, <code>1E24</code> <strong>\u1E24</strong>, <code>1E25</code>
    <strong>\u1E25</strong>, <code>1E44</code> <strong>\u1E44</strong>, <code>1E45</code>
    <strong>\u1E45</strong>, <code>1E5A</code> <strong>\u1E5A</strong>, <code>1E5B</code>
    <strong>\u1E5B</strong>, <code>1E62</code> <strong>\u1E62</strong>, <code>1E63</code>
    <strong>\u1E63</strong>, <code>1E6C</code> <strong>\u1E6C</strong>, <code>1E6D</code>
    <strong>\u1E6D</strong>, <code>1E92</code> <strong>\u1E92</strong>, <code>1E93</code>
    <strong>\u1E93</strong>.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t know where to find a reliable and
    comprehensive reference on the use of those characters but I have found that   Wikipedia
    in French allows searching by just pasting the unicode character in its search
    window. For instance <a href=\"http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/%C8%8E\">http://fr.wikipedia.org/wiki/\u020E</a>
    says that the o with inverted breve is used for Croatian and Slovenian poetry*
    and phonology. And there is an entry for all of the characters listed above.\r\n\r\n*The
    reference appears to be http://evertype.com/alphabets/croatian.pdf which rather
    states that the letters  \u0200, \u0201, \u0202, \u0203, \u0204, \u0205, \u0206,
    \u0207, \u0208, \u0209, \u020A, \u020B, \u020C, \u020D, \u020E, \u020F, \u0210,
    \u0211, \u0212, \u0213, \u0214, \u0215, \u0216, and \u0217 are used for discussions
    of Croatian pholonogy and <em>poetics</em>."
  created: '2015-01-11 15:56:51'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "@Michel:\r\n\r\nThe digraphs in the list above are used for transliteration
    from slavic languages into latin and are compatability characters only needed
    to ensure round-trip transliteration. The characters with double grave and arch
    (\"inverted breve\") aren't core characters in any language, but are used (along
    with acute and grave) in croatian poetics (and possibly other languages). The
    characters with dot-below and dot-above are used primarily for transliteration
    of (primarily) semitic and indic languages.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2015-01-11 16:23:21'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<blockquote> The digraphs in the list above are used for transliteration
    from slavic languages into latin and are compatability characters only needed
    to ensure round-trip transliteration. \r\n</blockquote>\r\nWhat about the following
    statement from <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D%C5%BE\">http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/D\u017E</a>:\r\n<blockquote>\r\nIn
    Croatian, when the text is written vertically rather than horizontally (on signs,
    for instance), d\u017E is written horizontally as a single letter; in particular,
    d\u017E occupies a single square in crossword puzzles.\r\n</blockquote>\r\nIncidently,
    Croatian uses the latin alphabet, as can be seen from this Wiki page: http://hr.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hrvatska.
    Here is also some reference on the alphabet (in Croatian): http://pravopis.hr/slova/\r\n\r\nDiacritics
    can easily be handled (without precomposed characters) with anchors and attachments,
    not so for digraphs, especially in a monospace font. "
  created: '2015-01-11 17:24:41'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "I was unaware of that fact, though that would put these digraphs in the same
    category as dutch ij, which exists as a separate character, but which (I believe)
    is rarely actually used (in the sense that the dutch are more likely to type it
    as two characters rather than one).\r\n\r\nAndre"
  created: '2015-01-11 19:35:48'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "<blockquote> [...]in the sense that the dutch are more likely to type it
    as two characters rather than one</blockquote>\r\n\r\nThe French are also more
    likely to type <code>oeuvre</code> instead of <code>\u0153uvre</code>. The standard
    French keyboard does not have a key for <code>\u0153</code>. However, if I type
    <code>&nbsp;Une oeuvre magistrale&nbsp;</code> in Word with the French spell checker
    on, I get\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/oeuvre_5898.png]\r\nThe spell
    checker does the job and it shows*. When the difference cannot be seen visually
    there is probably no reason to care unless you need a correct character count
    or a correct vertical representation of your word but then a special purpose application
    may be enough (at least with a proportional font for the last).\r\n\r\n*Everything
    is not perfect. If I then search for the word <code>oeuvre</code>, Word does not
    find it.\r\n"
  created: '2015-01-11 23:43:33'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "DTL OTM Light has a nice tool:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OTM_5015.jpg]\r\nhttp://www.fontmaster.nl/"
  created: '2015-01-22 19:37:07'
date: '2014-12-15 17:50:14'
title: Removing languages

---
