---
author:
  name: raph
  picture: 109741
body: "I'm looking critically at the various Jenson revivals (Centaur, Cloister, and
  friends), and the showing of [[Giovanni Mardersteig|Johnny Mardersteig]]'s Zeno
  in Jaspert is catching my eye. What's my best bet for getting a better quality sample?
  I checked on abebooks, and you do <em>not</em> want to know how much actual Officina
  Bodoni titles go for. That said, there are a whole bunch of museum catalogs and
  suchlike available at affordable prices. Does anyone know if any of these have good
  examples of Zeno? How good / complete is the specimen in Bringhurst?\r\n\r\nP.S.
  I like the new digs."
comments:
- author:
    name: Forrest L Norvell
    picture: 109561
  body: Assuming by "Bringhurst" you mean [[Elements of Typographic Style]], there
    is no specimen, just a listing for [[Giovanni Mardersteig]] in the reference to
    type designers. There are a few references to him on the web as "Hans Mardersteig",
    with some pointers to tiny, poor-quality GIF specimens of Zeno, but I'm sure you've
    already found those. Isn't [[Officina Bodoni]] notorious about making it hard
    to get your hands on their private-press typefaces?
  created: '2005-05-08 07:35:22'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "Raph,\r\n\r\nAnatomy of a Typeface has some Zeno on pp. 102--105, including
    a page from The Four Gospels."
  created: '2005-05-08 16:21:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'You should try to find a copy of this book: <em>The Officina Bodoni An Accont
    of the Work of a Hand Press 1923-1977.</em> It contains very good samples of all
    the Mardersteig faces, near the end of the volume. The book typically sells for
    between $150 - $250, but you can probably find it in any university library with
    a decent printing history section.'
  created: '2005-05-08 18:28:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Raph, UCLA has the book John mentions. I'll be going there soon, and I'll
    pick it up, so let me know if you'd like scans.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-09 10:49:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Here are the scans, 600dpi gs, no processing, saved as JPEG level-9:\r\n\r\n(2.19Mb)
    http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Zeno1.jpg\r\n\r\n(4.78Mb) http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Zeno2.jpg\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 19:15:20'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "hrant: thanks very much!\r\n\r\nI've ordered my very own copy of the book,
    and will more likely than not trace a digital version of the font. It will be
    interesting to see how much other interest there is in the release of such a beast."
  created: '2006-04-18 19:31:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019ve ordered my very own copy of the book\r\n\r\nGood move - it's
    very impressive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 19:42:21'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Interesting scans of Zeno - one gets a sense of the different directions in
    which chirographic revival type could have gone. Raph, do you think you might
    be able to scan a page or two of Mardersteig's Griffo type? I'd love to see it.
  created: '2006-04-18 20:08:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve ordered my very own copy of the book, and will more likely
    than not trace a digital version of the font. It will be interesting to see how
    much other interest there is in the release of such a beast.</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    is almost certainly already a digital version of Zeno, but this is a private typeface
    of the Stamperia Valdonega, just as the original Zeno was a private typeface.
    Martino Mardersteig continues his father's work, printing and publishing both
    handset and machine (and now computer) typeset works under the imprints of the
    Officina Bodoni and Stamperia Valdonega. If you want a book typeset in one of
    Mardersteig's private typefaces, then you go to the Mardersteigs. The digital
    versions of their types are reportedly extremely good: much better than e.g. Monotype
    Dante. I believe they are also size-specific.\r\n\r\nI'm pretty sure that the
    Mardersteigs would not take kindly to someone making an unlicensed copy of any
    of their private typefaces for general release."
  created: '2006-04-18 20:28:30'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "John: ah, I did not know there were still Mardersteigs carrying on the tradition.
    Thanks for enlightening me.\r\n\r\nI am going to err on the side of caution, as
    I definitely don't want to become known as the guy who rips off work belonging
    to others, but to me this still brings up some ethical questions. According to
    Jaspert, Zeno was made in 1937. So the design would be 70 years old, and the original
    creator would have been dead for 30 years. How long does a family get to claim
    exclusive use of a typeface?\r\n\r\nGeorge: I'll be happy to send you a scan of
    the Griffo sample. Mardersteig was a true master, and his distinctive work is
    well worth studying completely aside from the question of doing literal digitizations.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 22:01:04'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Thanks!
  created: '2006-04-18 22:07:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I believe they are also size-specific.\r\n\r\nBut they only have four masters,
    something that doesn't impress Raph for one. Don't get me wrong though, I think
    those are some great fonts*, and it's quite novel and clever to NOT distribute
    them retail (if you have a stellar reputation for printing for example).\r\n\r\n*
    Although their Garamond is [still] a Jannon.\r\n\r\nAnyway, out of curiosity I'm
    checking my \"Val\" specimen sheets...\r\nWell, I could only find one of the two,
    but in the list of fonts on\r\nthat sheet Zeno is NOT present... So maybe a window
    is open.\r\n\r\nBTW, the list is composed of mostly (entirely?) Monotype fonts*.\r\nI
    wonder how the permissioning worked out for them.\r\n\r\n* Including... Centaur!\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019m pretty sure that the Mardersteigs would not take kindly\r\n> to someone
    making an unlicensed copy of any of their private\r\n> typefaces for general release.\r\n\r\nUnless
    they got something out of it of course. Especially if the designer in question
    does a[n even] better job than them. As we're seeing in Raph's Centaur thread*,
    there's something to be said for a spontaneous, aggressive and self-motivated
    approach.\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/17628\r\n\r\n> How long does a family
    get to claim exclusive use of a typeface?\r\n\r\nGood question. It's not like
    it's one continuous organism.\r\nEspecially if they happen to be \"squatting\"
    on Zeno.\r\nDevise a strategem covering mutually beneficial usage\r\nor distribution,
    and make them an offer they can't refuse.\r\n\r\nGeorge, I'd scan Griffo for you
    myself, but Raph's scanner has much higher dpi.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 01:15:26'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I could not resist the temptation to digitize enough of the font to make
    a test page. Here's the partial alphabet, and here's a <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/zeno.pdf\">PDF
    of the page</a>: the sample of Sanctum Evangelium posted by hrant above as Zeno2.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zeno-specimen_6341.png]\r\n\r\nI
    did not use a single kern pair. It's amazing how well the font spaces in spite
    of that. I did not copy Malin's side bearings slavishly. For example, I slightly
    reduced the left side bearing of the 'b', a technique I gleaned from Paolo Giovio's
    1550 Historarium, as reproduced in Updike v. 1, p. 160, in my opinion one of the
    finest examples of well-spaced metal text.\r\n\r\nJohn: thanks for the information
    about Martino Mardersteig. I did not know he was carrying on his father's tradition.
    I'd love to get in touch with him to see if there's interest in releasing (or
    maybe just using) my digitization. I tried asking Nigel Roche at the St Bride
    Library, but haven't gotten any response. Does anyone else have contact info for
    Stamperia Valdonega?\r\n\r\nGeorge: your scans are <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/mardersteig214.jpg\">here</a>
    and <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/mardersteig215.jpg\">here</a>. These are
    2400 dpi high-quality scans, so they're 30 megabytes between the two of them.\r\n\r\nhrant:
    what impresses me about optical scaling isn't the sheer <em>number</em> of masters,
    it's how well it's done. The ATF Bodonis used one master and I consider those
    to be very fine examples. In any case, the optical scaling of metal Zeno is spectacular,
    as is clearly evidenced by the initial \"E\" in the page above.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-06 22:58:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cool.\r\n\r\n> It\u2019s amazing how well the font spaces in spite of that.\r\n\r\nYes,
    but lest there's a temptation to take this as far as \"with good enough base spacing
    you don't really need kerning\" (a not uncommon romanticism - shades of Dan Carr)
    just look at the \"ra\" on line 4.\r\n\r\n> Does anyone else have contact info
    for Stamperia Valdonega?\r\n\r\nvaldoneg_thatsymbol_valdonega_dot_it\r\n\r\n>
    The ATF Bodonis used one master\r\n\r\nHold on, here you're using \"master\" in
    a... deeper way than is the norm; if I didn't already know what you really meant
    I'd think you didn't know what you're saying. Normally \"master\" means a fixed
    instance of a typeface design, as a rule uniformly scaled to yield nearby sizes;
    you're using it to mean something like a \"meta-instance\", something used as
    a basis for some non-uniform if still mechanical scaling, thickening, etc. We
    need another term. \"Pattern master\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 00:33:28'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Thanks for the scans, they're great. It's not an entirely successful typeface,
    but there are some interesting interpretative choices in it.
  created: '2006-05-07 01:49:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Also:\r\n> I slightly reduced the left side bearing of the \u2018b\u2019\r\n\r\nReduced
    relative to what? The original, the \"n\", the \"h\", or?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 05:00:40'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "hrant: Ok, I get what you're saying now, but your definition of \"master\"
    doesn't quite fit either. In Adobe's Multiple Master technology, there are a small
    number of (often four) master outlines present in the font, and then you can derive
    a vast number of instances from them by interpolation.\r\n\r\nIn ATF lingo, your
    \"pattern master\" would be called a \"pattern plate,\" largely because it was
    actually a 4\" plate made of brass or tin. I'm inclined to keep using the term,
    because in the virtual world you need lots of metaphors.\r\n<cite>Reduced relative
    to what? The original, the \u201Cn\u201D, the \u201Ch\u201D, or?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    meant the original, but the b is also about 10 units less than the h, or six less
    than the n, by the numbers.\r\n\r\nAnd yeah, there are at least a few kerning
    pairs that would add to the spacing evenness of the font (although your \"ra\"
    example doesn't need <em>much</em> - that top terminal of the \"a\" needs air
    to breathe). I am just sticking to my usual methodology of trying to get all the
    side bearings right before starting in with the fine-tuning of the kern pairs.\r\n\r\nGeorge:
    you're quite welcome. I am usually happy to scan pages like this - I have a kick-ass
    type library and a pretty decent scanner.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 06:25:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> your definition of \u201Cmaster\u201D doesn\u2019t quite fit either.\r\n\r\nTrue.
    So maybe both our definitions could be OK if we loosened things up and said that
    a master is a \"meta-instance\" or something and then there are different ways
    of applying it.\r\n\r\nSo like even in a font that doesn't have optical scaling,
    you could say that for example taking the demi weight and tracking it looser when
    setting small text is basically treating it like a master design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 08:39:54'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Raph, I wish I could easily get my 1499 roman leaf to you for kick---- scanning;
    I bought some British Library scans from the same book, Scriptores Astronomici
    Veteres, but only one is good, and it is really too low-res for comfort. \r\n\r\nThe
    four copies of SAV that I've seen vary greatly. James Mosley tells me that the
    same is true even of De Aetna, where this lowercase first appeared in what ought
    to have been pristine condition. His scans from an excellent copy show how light
    and precise the original was. But with the gradual darkening that came with repeated
    strikes from the same punches - which were nonetheless probably touched up to
    maintain the thinness of thins - and with sixty percent of the punches being replaced
    with a view to narrowness, the type ended up looking like this:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hmn_6403.JPG]\r\n(from
    a measly single page: f and h are made up of only a handful of examples)."
  created: '2006-05-07 14:17:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the gradual darkening that came with repeated strikes from the same punches\r\n\r\nCould
    you elaborate? That doesn't sound right.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 14:55:14'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Whenever a punch is reused, the impact with the matrix will tend to slightly
    thicken up the face, won't it? I'm pretty hazy on this, so I'd be very happy for
    you to put me straight. And I don't know for sure that there was any reuse of
    punches.
  created: '2006-05-07 15:22:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">slightly reduced the left side bearing of the \u2018b\u2019\r\n\r\nThis
    is normal practice, I believe, because of the absence of the serif compared to
    the h. "
  created: '2006-05-07 15:37:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm no punchcutter or typecaster, but I do know that:\r\n1) The punch is
    way harder than the matrix it's struck into.\r\n2) You only strike a punch once
    in a blue moon; once you have a matrix, that's what you re-use to cast sorts.\r\n\r\nIn
    fact AFAIK the only real wear is at the sort level (although discrete\r\n<cite>damage</cite>
    to the punches and especially matrices is not uncommon).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 15:40:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This is normal practice, I believe, because of the absence of the serif
    compared to the h.\r\n\r\nWhich is why I asked relative to what (and note that
    Raph wasn't working from the \"h\"). BTW, there's another reason besides the typically
    weaker bottom-left to space it tighter: the body is more closed, so it benefits
    from more tightness (sort of like a bold).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 15:42:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">2) You only strike a punch once in a blue moon; once you have a matrix,
    that\u2019s what you re-use to cast sorts.\r\n\r\nIf I remember correctly, Harry
    Carter says that part of the business of type designers was selling matrices,
    which would have called for repeated striking on the copper strips. "
  created: '2006-05-07 15:51:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Some designers sold matrices, some even sold punches (like in the case of
    some Armenian type made in Holland) but usually you bought the end-result type,
    cast by the foundry from a single set of matrices. Plus this stuff was expensive
    and rarified: it's not like a designer would ever sell dozens of a set of matrices.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 15:58:27'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'OK, so rather than the punches, the sorts became worn. '
  created: '2006-05-07 23:24:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, but that actually tends towards a gradual <cite>lightening</cite>,\r\nalthough
    more in the extremities, not so much the stems.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 23:33:55'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: So increasing weight must all be from new punches and ink?
  created: '2006-05-08 01:56:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One thing is certain, it's way easier to end up with too much ink than too
    little; besides the latter being more obviously faulty to most people*, when you
    end up with too much ink fixing it is a pain: you have to start over. And then
    there's Pascal's old paradox: \"Things are at their best in their beginning.\"
    So I would venture that the more time passes, the more users lose respect for
    the quality of something, and the more ink will hit the pulp.\r\n\r\n* Except
    to type designers, who -hopefully- care more about the outlines\r\nthan the bodies.
    Like when I print, my inking borders on the translucent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-08 02:35:18'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Thanks for the info. Certainly the rot, if it was a rot, had set in by 1497,
    and it seems not to get any more marked afterwards. The only thing that doesn't
    fit is that I often see rare ligs - rarely used sorts - that are sharper and lighter
    than the characters around them, in Aldus' rather than Soncino's printing.
  created: '2006-05-09 03:03:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> rare ligs - rarely used sorts - that are sharper and lighter\r\n\r\nInteresting
    - the former makes sense, but not the latter.\r\nHi-res sample?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 03:14:20'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Aldus, 1501 italic: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/tilig_4683.JPG]\r\nSoncino,
    1503 italic: [img:sites/default/files/old-images/spene_4035.JPG]"
  created: '2006-05-09 14:14:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think we need a expert to help out...\r\n\r\nI can only take guesses, based
    on the fact that later hands often added new sorts to a font, and not always very
    capably. In the top one, it seems under-inked, and not sharper, so it's possible
    that the sort was cast (or filed down) slightly too short. In the second one,
    it seems like a combination of a \"valid\" long-s and a hacked \"p\"; maybe the
    matrix for this ligature was struck inexpertly, with the \"p\" not hard/deep enough;
    or maybe they used a \"p\" punch from another font? What do the other \"p\"s look
    like? In any case, wear can't explain the second one, since half of it is \"fine\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 17:43:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the sort was cast\r\n\r\nI believe that in traditional printer's terminology,
    only the non-alphabetic letters--of which there are fewer in the case, and some
    may be mixed in a single box in the case--are called 'sorts', or, in England,
    'peculiars'. "
  created: '2006-05-09 17:54:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I've always heard \"sort\" used to mean pretty much any piece of metal type
    (except rules\r\nand such, and most probably spacing). And really, if you use
    anything else, like \"letter\"\r\nor \"character\", the potential for confusion
    is high.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 18:08:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The usage of ''sorts'' and ''peculiars'' I heard from my Uncle Ben Lieberman--see
    his book ''Types of Typefaces''. But what I read in contemporary references says
    you are right. Perhaps some hot metal people can enlighten us on this--whether
    Lieberman had it wrong, or the usage has changed. '
  created: '2006-05-09 18:23:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I actually use \"peculiars\" myself! See here:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/manademo/
    _\r\nIt's a term both useful and classy.\r\n\r\nBTW, speaking of terminology,
    I think it's better (although not pervasively practiced) to limit \"hot metal\"
    to mean Monotype, Linotype, etc. I've even encountered \"cold metal\" used to
    mean the stuff before hot metal, although the most common term seems to be \"foundry\"
    (which however can cause confusion).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 18:33:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Metal rather than ''hot metal'' is better, you''re right. '
  created: '2006-05-09 18:36:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, concerning your uncle's book: is there a big\r\ndifference between the
    '67 versus the '78 editions?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 18:40:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I don''t know if there''s a difference; I only have the earlier edition.
    I still think it''s a lovely book. I don''t know of anything that introduces the
    whole (pre-digital) story of type as well. And it has a wonderful selection of
    type samples, including in full paragraphs. He also printed the first edition
    of Mac McGrew''s ''American Metal Typefaces'' on his own press--one of the last
    projects he did.  '
  created: '2006-05-09 18:59:02'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Hrant, the other 'p's are similar but heavier. What I really need to do, of
    course, is get hold of an incunable or Aldine specialist.
  created: '2006-05-09 20:54:01'
- author:
    name: Greg Stanton
  body: "In case anybody is still interested -- i'm new to this forum -- Richard Beatty
    digitized Zeno a few years ago, quite successfully I think. He got an angry letter
    from Martino Mardersteig, claiming copyright infringment. As U.S. copyrights for
    types cover only the name of the type, not the design itself, Richard re-named
    the type \"Martino.\" I'm sure Mardersteig Jr. was not amused. You can get the
    font from him, quite inexpensively, if you email him.\r\n\r\nbeattytype@yahoo.com\r\n\r\nHe
    has also, within the last month, released a digial version of the Doves types."
  created: '2006-08-05 18:46:42'
date: '2005-05-08 07:20:45'
title: Samples of Zeno?

---
