---
author:
  name: rayzb92
body: "A lot of people who are not from Britain, usually say 'England' to refer to
  Britain. Dutch people do this all the time. I usually respond with \"Only in England,
  or also in Scotland and Wales (and Northern Ireland)?\" Most people react confused.\r\nIt
  is very easy to understand the different terms.\r\n\r\nGreat Britain (island) is
  England, Wales and Scotland.\r\nThe United Kingdom (sovereign state) is Great Britain
  plus Northern Ireland. The abbreviation 'Britain' is used to refer to both the island
  and the state. Not complicated at all.\r\n\r\nI wonder what people from Britain
  think when they hear foreigners say 'England' instead of Britain."
comments:
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "Flanders & Swann:\r\n[[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EdY1Y5XNJBY]]"
  created: '2015-01-24 10:49:24'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "<cite>I wonder what people from Britain think when they hear foreigners say
    'England' instead of Britain.</cite>\r\n\r\nSomething along the lines of what
    Dutch people think when they hear foreigners say \u2018Holland\u2019 instead of
    \u2018The Netherlands\u2019 (German people do this all the time). Some care, some
    don\u2019t. Instead of obstructing the conversation just to make a point, most
    choose to ignore it because they understood what was meant."
  children:
  - author:
      name: rayzb92
    body: "<cite>Something along the lines of what Dutch people think when they hear
      foreigners say \u2018Holland\u2019 instead of \u2018The Netherlands\u2019 (German
      people do this all the time).</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, it does not bother me that
      much. But as you may know, many people in Britain (Welsh and Scots) are  not
      that fond of the English. They feel themselves Welsh or Scottish first, and
      British second. So they often feel offended when someone tells them they are
      from England. \r\nOne example of total ignorance. A Dutch tv presenter said
      the following: \"The happiest people in the whole of England live on the Scottish
      Shetland and Orkney Islands\". I could not believe my ears.\r\n\r\nWatching
      a lot of BBC, I notice they always talk about 'Britain' even when it concerns
      something in England (except when they talk about English institutions like
      NHS England). It is more inclusive. I believe the rest of the world should follow
      this example.\r\n\r\nAn interesting paper called 'Pride not prejudice across
      the nations of Britain': http://www.britishfuture.org/wp-content/uploads/2012/04/BritishFutureSceptredIsle.pdf"
    created: '2015-01-24 12:31:13'
  created: '2015-01-24 11:37:45'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "<cite>I believe the rest of the world should follow this example.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    usage may be imprecise and can be confusing, so it\u2019s certainly not recommended
    for journalistic or scientific texts. In colloquial usage (outside the UK), however,
    it is too widespread to be likely to disappear in the near future\u2014regardless
    of your valiant awareness campaign. You can probably see where this comes from:
    In many contexts (outside the UK), the distinction England/Great Britain/United
    Kingdom is not relevant because only one of these entities is discussed (typically
    the UK), so there can be no confusion. In this case, speakers of several languages
    just pick the shortest term. And as you noted yourself, confusion only arises
    when someone (e.g. you) deliberately misunderstands this usage and tries to teach
    others how to avoid a non-existent problem. I assure you that, if people felt
    that using \u2018England\u2019 to refer to the UK led to noticeable confusion,
    they would stop doing so. But they don\u2019t."
  created: '2015-01-24 13:09:39'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "It works both ways, I've seen tourists from Europe being ignorant about the
    US. \r\n\r\nAs R said, normally there is no confusion because when folks say England
    or Britain they are talking about England. If they mean Wales and Scotland they
    use those words.\r\n\r\nMerchants who depend on foreign tourists ignore these
    slips, just as merchants in the US generally ignore it when tourists from Europe
    use the wrong word.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2015-01-24 16:25:50'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "Some of this may just be sloppy language. Don't know if it's due to changing
    educational standards or just gradual changes in the language, but I frequently
    hear TV professionals using bad grammar and words that aren't the best choice.\r\n\r\nAnd
    some may be for snappier headlines. \"Holland's Got Talent\" is a better title
    than \"The Netherlands Got Talent\"."
  children:
  - author:
      name: rayzb92
    body: "I think you are correct on the headlines issue. Ever wondered why so many
      Dutch and Scandinavians speak English? Well that is because we subtitle foreign
      movies and TV shows (most of them being American or British). Most southern
      European countries (Spain, Italy, etc) do not. They synchronise. I think listening
      to spoken English and simultaneously reading subtitles in your native language
      helps tremendously. Unless the subtitles are incorrect, of course:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BritainEngland_3604.jpg]\r\n\r\nSpot
      the error! Sloppy indeed... This happens all too often in this bloody country."
    created: '2015-01-24 19:09:29'
  created: '2015-01-24 17:49:20'
- author:
    name: R.
    picture: 119345
  body: "<cite>I might be overreacting here</cite>\r\n\r\nYup. You know perfectly
    well what someone is telling you if she says (in Dutch or German or French or
    \u2026): \u2018I\u2019ve never been to England\u2019. This means that the linguistic
    convention\u2014\u2018England\u2019 by default refers to the UK\u2014works in
    those languages. Everybody, including you, gets the intended meaning. So, why
    would you want to impose a different convention and try to \u2018educate\u2019
    others? Linguistic symbols (e.g. words) are more or less arbitrary anyway: It
    doesn\u2019t really matter whether we call the United Kingdom \u2018the United
    Kingdom\u2019, \u2018England\u2019, \u2018Albion\u2019 or \u2018Gnushty\u2019\u2014as
    long as everybody gets the intended meaning. That\u2019s the case. It might be
    unfortunate that the colloquial naming convention in some languages (UK = England)
    conflicts with a naming convention that\u2019s used in other contexts (UK \u2260
    England), but these contexts seldom overlap and misunderstandings rarely arise
    (and if they do, they can usually be sorted out quickly). This means that the
    convention you suggest is actually worse than the one in place: Instead of being
    able to say \u2018Engeland\u2019, people would have to say \u2018Groot-Brittanni\xEB\u2019,
    which is longer and more difficult to spell, without much added benefit in everyday
    language (excluding precision for precision\u2019s sake and the satisfaction of
    having avoided confusion that wasn\u2019t even there in the first place). So,
    what I\u2019m trying to say is: Understand that in different linguistic contexts,
    different things matter (most)\u2014for instance brevity and simplicity in colloquial
    language or precision in scientific language. No one asks you to ever say \u2018Engeland\u2019
    if you find this all too brief and simple, but I don\u2019t see a valid reason
    to foist your discomfort with a perfectly normal linguistic convention on others."
  children:
  - author:
      name: rayzb92
    body: "That is certainly one way to look at it. And I have to admit, I also used
      'England' to refer to Britain. But then I became aware of the different meanings.
      Once you know the difference, it is hard to fall back to your incorrect habit
      (at least for me). To be honest, when someone says \"I've never been to England\",
      I would respond with \"And what about Wales or Scotland?\". Not to be pedantic,
      honestly. But because I hear and read the correct terminology every day, in
      British media. I am used to it now.\r\nPeople in the Netherlands might as well
      use 'Brittanni\xEB', which only has one more syllable than 'Engeland'. The Afrikaans
      -derived from Dutch- speaking inhabitants of South Africa got it right. They
      primarily use 'Brittanje' to refer to Britain. So why not us? But you are probably
      right about the colloquial language.\r\nA lot of Americans say 'England' instead
      of Britain too. Funny actually. I guess the only people who get it right are
      the British themselves. And the Irish."
    created: '2015-01-24 22:04:36'
  created: '2015-01-24 19:38:27'
- author:
    name: rayzb92
  body: "I understand your point. But why should we follow those who use the terms
    incorrectly? I believe the contrary. When people do not know the difference between
    England, Great Britain and the UK and therefore get confused when you say 'Britain'
    instead of 'England', well... then they should learn the difference. Might sound
    cocky, but that is how it should be. \r\nBut lets not forget that many DO know
    the difference and still say 'England'. Why? Laziness? I might be overreacting
    here...\r\nForeigners often say Holland when they mean the Netherlands. But even
    the Dutch themselves use Holland on many occasions. Britain has 'Britain's Got
    Talent', we have 'Holland's Got Talent'. Britain has 'The Voice UK', we have 'The
    Voice of Holland'.\r\n\r\nFunny, just as I am writing this, I hear a Dutch TV
    presenter say \"England remembers Winston Churchill\". He might be correct, but
    Churchill was PM of Britain, not just England. By saying 'England' he suggests
    that people in Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland do not remember PM Churchill..."
  created: '2015-01-24 20:33:58'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synecdoche\r\n\r\nNow, what about the use of
    \u201CAmerica\u201D to refer just to the USA?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: rayzb92
    body: "Yeah, that is a different matter I think. US citizens (Americans) often
      refer to their country as 'America'. Shows on TV: 'Good Morning America', 'America's
      Newsroom' or 'American Dad' etc.\r\n\r\nUnited States of America -> America\r\nKingdom
      of the Netherlands -> Netherlands\r\nUnited Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern
      Ireland -> Britain (no England whatsoever).\r\n\r\nYou can see the pattern here."
    created: '2015-01-24 21:18:35'
  created: '2015-01-24 20:35:13'
- author:
    name: Suijin
    picture: 127951
  body: "Clearly this is a European forum (and I don't even know if I should capitalize
    that, or now if I should put an \"s\" instead of a \"z\" in capitalize, lol).\r\n\r\nHere
    in the U.S., I would bet that an exceedingly small percentage of the population
    knows the correct usage of England, Britain, United Kingdom, or Commonwealth for
    that matter. We're that isolated and provincial. In fact, most of the population
    can't distinguish between Scottish, Welsh, English, Australian, and South African
    accents. They are all \"British accents.\" It's pretty revealing. But it's not
    because they are sloppy or stupid, it's because they simply don't know any better
    and have never had reason to educate themselves on the matter. You don't go out
    and learn particle physics just because one day you might run into a particle
    physicist.\r\n\r\nAnd worst of all, here in the U.S. most people don't bat an
    eye, or even recognize an issue, when the country is referred to \"America\".
    We are, after all, Americans. You just have to watch \"Team America: World Police\"
    to understand that. :)\r\n\r\nI can appreciate why you find the erroneous usage
    irksome, but it's your damn fault for having such a complicated geopolitical nomenclemature.
    :P"
  created: '2015-01-24 23:40:35'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Indeed, it is Great Britain which includes Scotland... but not Northern Ireland.
    Just plain \"Britain\", without the \"Great\", is, I think, just England and Wales.\r\n\r\nSo
    I would think that, since people who mistakenly say England are referring to the
    political unit with an army, navy, and postage stamps, it's \"the UK\", rather
    than \"Britain\", or even \"Great Britain\", that they should be saying."
  created: '2015-01-25 06:22:25'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>But then I became aware of the different meanings. Once you know the
    difference, it is hard to fall back to your incorrect habit (at least for me).
    </cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe you also need to get aware what \u201Ccorrect\u201D means
    in the context of word use. ;-)\r\nWords are just symbols which stand for ideas
    or objects in the physical world. Person A wants to talk about a certain object
    \u201CO\u201D and uses the symbol \u201CX\u201D to represent it in spoken or written
    language. Person B hears the symbol \u201CX\u201D and instantly thinks of the
    object \u201CO\u201D, just as A meant it. This was then a successful talk, because
    A and B understood each other perfectly well. \r\nSo should this be automatically
    \u201Cincorrect\u201D just because there is a person C that does not connect \u201CO\u201D
    and \u201CX\u201D in the same way? As user R. already pointed out in a post above:
    it\u2019s usually actually C who is the troublemaker because he deliberately tries
    to interfere with established and well understood conventions. "
  created: '2015-01-25 11:42:57'
- author:
    name: rayzb92
  body: "<cite>it\u2019s usually actually C who is the troublemaker because he deliberately
    tries to interfere with established and well understood conventions.</cite>\r\n\r\nWell,
    that depends. Foreigners saying 'England' when they mean Britain might understand
    each other. But once that persons speaks to a British person, than that person
    is the troublemaker. After all, that person fails to understand the correct/proper
    terminology. He might even offend someone with his ignorance!\r\nI understand
    what you mean, but why should the person who uses the right terms be the troublemaker?
    That does not make sense to me at all. Just because the majority are ignorant
    about the terminology does not mean they are right and somehow should claim to
    be the status quo. After all, Dutch dictionaries all define the terms correctly.
    Style guides of Dutch newspapers also explain the different terms and dictate
    how they should be used correctly. Pigheaded? Nah... I refuse to use the 'wrong'
    terms, that's all."
  created: '2015-01-25 15:47:22'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Well, that depends. Foreigners saying 'England' when they mean Britain
    might understand each other. But once that persons speaks to a British person,
    than that person is the troublemaker.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf one uses words which can
    be misunderstood (or even offending) in a CERTAIN context, this can of course
    be a problem. No one is arguing about that I guess. \r\n\r\nBut you generalize.
    You just throw around the words \u201Cright\u201D and \u201Cwrong\u201D, but they
    are not clear as you wish them to be. The words you are talking about are \u201Cright\u201D
    and \u201Cwrong\u201D according to YOUR specific knowledge or a specific source
    \u2013\_or even a whole country. But that does not mean that these definitions
    are relevant for everybody in every context, past, present and future. That\u2019s
    not how language works. \r\n\r\nAlso, I am pretty sure that your own language
    is full of the \u201Cignorance\u201D you assign to others. Have you checked every
    word you use back to it\u2019s roots hundreds or thousands of years ago and have
    you checked if they are \u201Cright\u201D and unambiguous in every context? Probably
    not! You just assume correct usage through how you hear others talk and what you
    have learned and read. And through exactly that process others learn to say England
    and Holland and so on. \r\nWords are no laws of nature \u2013 they change all
    the time. And yes, this can mean that old \u201Cerrors\u201D become the new \u201Cright\u201D.
    Happens since thousands of years. \r\nYou can\u2019t just pick one option and
    declare it \u201Cright\u201D. That goes even for dictionaries. What do you think
    they list? They list accepted meanings among certain people at the time the dictionary
    was written. But since language changes all the time, people might move away from
    the meaning of the dictionary entry and then at some point the dictionary simply
    would have to change and remove that old meaning or deem it \u201Cout-dated\u201D.
    \r\n\r\nThere is nothing wrong with nudging people in the right direction, when
    you notice a usage of words which can be problematic. I actually do that all the
    time myself. But always mind the context and the conventions in this context.
    Then you don\u2019t get all worked up about \u201Cwrong\u201D usage, because you
    understand it might not really be wrong, but just \u201Cdifferent\u201D from your
    own usage.  \r\n"
  created: '2015-01-25 17:08:47'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "<cite>Then you don\u2019t get all worked up about \u201Cwrong\u201D usage,
    because you understand it might not really be wrong, but just \u201Cdifferent\u201D
    from your own usage.</cite>\r\n\r\nSince England and Britain are <em>proper nouns</em>,
    even if one disdains prescriptivism in general, the terms right and wrong do apply,
    because those words are <em>names</em>, like the names of people, or like trademarks.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, there are exceptions even to this generalization.\r\n\r\nSo I'm going
    to open up the <em>really big</em> can of worms associated with this topic.\r\n\r\nThus,
    in English, \"the Americas\" is a body of land that includes North America, Central
    America, and South America. In French, the term for that same body of land is
    \"Am\xE8rique\", and something similar is true for other Romance languages, including
    Spanish.\r\n\r\nAt one time, decades ago now, the official name of Brazil was
    \"Los Estados Unidos do Brasil\".\r\n\r\nThe official names of a few countries
    are, or were:\r\n\r\nThe Dominion of Canada\r\nThe Commonwealth of Australia\r\nR\xE9publique
    Fran\xE7aise (The Republic of France, <em>lit.</em> French Republic)\r\nThe United
    States of America\r\nThe Union of South Africa\r\nLos Estados Unidos do Brasil
    (The United States of Brazil)\r\n\r\nThe pattern is clear; it is &lt;form of government&gt;
    of &lt;name of country&gt;.\r\n\r\nSo these names referred to Canada, Australia,
    France, America, South Africa, and Brazil respectively.\r\n\r\nAt least, this
    suits English speakers quite well, and makes perfect sense to them. America is
    one country, and the Americas are two continents linked by an isthmus.\r\n\r\nBut
    in the Romance languages, the word for the Americas is their cognate to \"America\".
    This causes a great deal of confusion, and has led some people to claim that the
    conventional English usage of \"America\" for the United States of America is
    in some way bigoted or exclusionary or ignorant and so on.\r\n\r\nOne way to reply
    is to note that neither Jamaica nor Ontario nor Guyana are part of \"British Columbia\".
    And what about the country that dares to call itself Colombia?\r\n\r\nBecause
    Columbia is also a name for the lands discovered by Columbus - the Americas -
    as witness its use by Americans - the song \"Hail Columbia\", the name of CBS,
    the Columbia Broadcasting System."
  children:
  - author:
      name: rayzb92
    body: "Right, I noticed the pattern of the official names. You are right. We should
      call a country like the citizens of that country call it. Most Americans say
      'America', so we call it America. Britons call their country 'Britain', so we
      should call it Britain. And if there exists a Dutch, French, German, etc translation
      of that name, well, than they should use that word (ideally speaking). I rarely
      hear an English person say 'England', always Britain. Quite funny actually,
      even when they talk about a typical English landscape they call it a 'British
      landscape'.\r\n\r\nScreenshot from an official U.S. propaganda film:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WWII_Divide_and_Conquer_12_5529.jpg]\r\n\r\nIt
      is like saying 'Texas' instead of America. Still no Briton has shed his/her
      light on this subject. I wonder what they think."
    created: '2015-01-25 21:04:25'
  created: '2015-01-25 20:08:30'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "Most American's might not be clear on British geopolitics, and I doubt that
    most could name the constituent parts that make up the UK. \r\n\r\nEven so, I
    think that few confuse England with Scotland, Wales or Northern Ireland. My general
    observation is that most Americans think of them as being separate places, even
    though they might not be able to describe the political arrangements between them
    or be able to point to them on a map."
  created: '2015-01-26 04:19:25'
- author:
    name: Typography.Guru
    picture: 110253
  body: "<cite>Since England and Britain are proper nouns, even if one disdains prescriptivism
    in general, the terms right and wrong do apply, because those words are names,
    like the names of people, or like trademarks.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, but whether or
    not the \u201Ccorrect\u201D names matter is still a matter of context. No one
    is arguing that for example a shopping website could offer something like \u201CAmerica\u201D
    as entry for the country field. That would be wrong. But that does not that people
    can\u2019t talk of \u201CAmericans\u201D for \u201Ccitizens of the United States
    of America\u201D when the context clearly shows that the former can only stand
    for the latter. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: rayzb92
    body: I am with you on that. But I very much disgree with the argument that people
      who use the right names are troublemakers. That is not the problem.
    created: '2015-01-26 11:33:07'
  created: '2015-01-26 09:53:23'
- author:
    name: agisaak
    picture: 115092
  body: "Just to further stir things up I should point out that the only people in
    Great Britain who can legitimately call themselves 'Britons' are the Welsh and
    the Cornish. The others are all just foreign invaders.\r\n\r\nAndre"
  created: '2015-01-26 16:42:15'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "The history and pre-history of Britain is filled with successive waves of
    migration from the mainland \u2014 each pushing aside or merging with those who
    were already there. Neanderthals were likely the first human inhabitants."
  created: '2015-01-26 17:48:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "And please stop calling people from the USA \u201CAmericans\u201D\u2014as
    if Canadians and Mexicans, not to mention everyone in South and Central America,
    are not also Americans, i.e. living on the American continent. \r\n\r\nUSAers
    tend to be rather -centric, but in this case the RotW can take some of the blame.\r\n\r\nIf
    people from the USSR (aka CCCP) were known as \u201CSoviets\u201D, we can call
    USAers \u201CStatesers\u201D or \u201CUniteds\u201D. \u201CStatesers\u201D is
    my pick, as, after all, the USA is well-known as \u201CThe States\u201D. Fortunately,
    in this era of equal sexes, \u201CStatesmen\u201D is a no-go.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2015-01-26 19:54:14'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: In 1797 President John Adams called the USA "America" in his inaugural address.
    It's been in use for hundreds of years so I wouldn't count on it changing.
  created: '2015-01-26 20:22:52'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: Usians?
  created: '2015-01-26 21:05:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Statesiders.
  created: '2015-01-26 21:52:05'
- author:
    name: Thylacine
    picture: 112146
  body: "USers, maybe.\r\n\r\nYankees would be good too, but the baseball team by
    the same name has already grabbed the dot-com domain. There's no turning back
    once that happens.\r\n\r\nAs for those (North) Americans just across the border,
    I thought it was already settled \u2014 they're Canucks."
  created: '2015-01-26 22:24:07'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "I think Yankee is the only real possibility among those listed, although
    to many it suggests someone from the northeast. \r\n\r\nI looked in a Thesaurus
    but didn't find much. \r\n\r\nThe Wikipedia page about alternate USA names said
    \"no alternative to 'American' is common in English.\"  \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Names_for_United_States_citizens"
  created: '2015-01-27 01:11:54'
- author:
    name: rayzb92
  body: "So how do you call people living in Northern Ireland? It is part of the UK
    so 'British'. But Northern Ireland lies on the island of Ireland, so 'Irish' would
    be acceptable too. But then again, the complicated situation there, with the Troubles
    and all... the nationalists/republicans in Northern Ireland do not see themselves
    as British, they hate Britain. The loyalist population feel strongly connected
    to Britain, so they proudly call themselves British. Maybe 'Northern Irish' is
    a good solution.\r\n"
  created: '2015-01-27 16:30:48'
- author:
    name: Bernard Hughes
    picture: 127097
  body: "Thylacine: USers, maybe. Yankees would be good too, but the baseball team
    by the same name has already grabbed the dot-com domain. There's no turning back
    once that happens.\r\n\r\nYankees may be claimed, but I always call them Septics\r\n"
  created: '2015-01-27 18:11:17'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Incidentally, to return to the original topic, just as the fact that the
    people of the United States are called American reinforces the use of America
    for the nation, and not for the Americas, the confusion between England and the
    whole United Kingdom is somewhat reinforced by the usual job title of a certain
    individual residing in England.\r\n\r\nHer Majesty Queen Elizabeth the Second
    is usually referred to as the Queen of England, not the Queen of Britain, the
    Queen of the United Kingdom, or the Queen of the British Commonwealth of Nations,
    though she reigns over all the places those names include.\r\n\r\nOf course, the
    historical root of that is simple enough; England, with its royal house, conquered
    and ruled over Wales, Scotland, and Ireland. Which is the real historic reason
    that Britain and England sometimes get confused.\r\n\r\nI mean, there's another
    part of the world that includes the national homelands of the Uighurs and the
    Tibetans, and yet we just call it China - of course, it calls itself China too
    (sort of... it calls itself China in English; its word for itself in Chinese is
    different), which makes the situation somewhat different from that of the United
    Kingdom.\r\n\r\nThus, just as when dealing with the People's Republic, the people
    you will be negotiating with will usually be Chinese, with Uighurs and Tibetans
    and Yi and Mongols and so on not getting a lot of input, at least historically,
    when negotiating with Britain, it would be Englishmen one would be talking to,
    with the Welsh and the Scots just having to put up with whatever the English decided.
    And what with the Netherlands being so close to Britain, they may have had enough
    dealings with it that the cognate of England might even be their language's <em>word</em>
    for Britain."
  children:
  - author:
      name: rayzb92
    body: "Good analysis. You are probably right on the historic relations between
      Britain and the Netherlands. We certainly fought some battles on the North Sea...
      As someone from the Netherlands I can tell you that the Dutch translation of
      Britain is 'Brittanni\xEB'. Pronunciation: bri-tah-nee-yuh (a bit like 'Britannia').
      The reason why many language institutes here discourage the stand alone word
      'Brittanni\xEB' to refer to Britain is because of the French region of Bretagne
      (Brittany). Pronunciation: bruh-tahn-yuh. They could sound similar to the untrained
      ear. So to avoid confusion it is recommended to only use 'Groot-Brittanni\xEB'
      (Great Britain). Rubbish if you ask me. Brittanni\xEB has four syllables, Bretange
      has three. Besides, we do already use Brittanni\xEB to refer to Roman Britain
      and Early Medieval Britain (e.g. literature about King Arthur)."
    created: '2015-01-28 23:20:10'
  created: '2015-01-27 22:49:01'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: 'Getting the thread off topic in a different direction: actually England''s
    royal house didn''t conquer Scotland. English armies were generally on the winning
    side in wars fought in Scotland in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries, but
    these were all internal civil wars within England, Scotland, or both. Technically
    Scotland''s royal house inherited England, and then about a century later, the
    Scottish parliament merged itself with England''s (voluntarily, though with considerable
    bribery). The Irish situation is even more complicated, although it''s closer
    to the concept of conquest.'
  created: '2015-01-28 01:33:27'
date: '2015-01-23 22:37:50'
node_type: forum
title: People who say "England" instead of "Britain"

---
