---
author:
  name: Peter G.
  picture: 109459
body: "I\u2019ve got a question for all you typographers: \r\n<strong>When is it,
  and when is it not, appropriate to use the [[Ampersand|ampersand]] character (&)
  instead of the actual word \u201Cand\u201D?</strong>\r\n\r\n{Moderator: Wiki link
  added.}"
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I think that this depends on the language. German might have actual rule
    forbiding it running text, I think. Many old Italian books used it all the time,
    every \"and\" instance; \"etc.\" is also written \"&c.\"\r\n\r\nI think that in
    English, it could safely be used in headlines and other display applications,
    and in proper business names, i.e., \"We decided to take our case to the firm
    of Reynolds & Reynolds Attorneys, instead of the cheap storefront team around
    the corner.\" Otherwise, I would leave it out of <em>text</em>.\r\n\r\nAlso, I
    belive that common practice is to remove spaces when initals are used, e.g., \"Research
    & Development, Inc.\" but \"R&D, Inc.\"\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-05-14 22:59:21'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: In spanish it's almost forgotten because it represents no saving or advantage
    against the copulative conjunction "y". Many people here actually think that the
    ampersand is an english character.
  created: '2005-05-15 07:03:36'
- author:
    name: Peter G.
    picture: 109459
  body: Very interesting. Keep it coming.
  created: '2005-05-15 19:44:41'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Very interesting. Keep it coming.</em>\r\n\r\nDiscussion is a two-way
    street. In what context do you need an ampersand answer. Are you trying to accumulate
    some sort of general understanding, or do you have something specific that you
    are looking for?\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Peter G.
      picture: 109459
    body: "Dan, sorry for the late reply, I had no idea this question would be so
      popular and it seems Typophile doesn't email me anymore when people reply. My
      curiosity was sparked by a recent logo I designed that used a somewhat prominent
      ampersand. This led me to question its proper use, and this led me to Typophile.\r\n\r\nSo
      far, I think I'm going to have to go with the Chicago Manual of Style on this
      one. I agree that the ampersand tends to stand out too much and so becomes distracting,
      as Eben's post illustrates well (no offense).\r\n\r\nThanks for the great discussion
      everyone. You've even managed to spark an interest in another topic: the use
      of small-caps. But that's for another post."
    created: '2005-05-18 20:46:04'
  created: '2005-05-15 19:48:31'
- author:
    name: Kija
  body: "In french the ampersand in rarely used, but it goes under the nice name of
    \xABesperluette\xBB (there are other names, but this one is the prettiest, I think)."
  created: '2005-05-15 21:16:58'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: In spanish it's called Et, but mostly known as Ampersand.
  created: '2005-05-16 00:14:16'
- author:
    name: Brian_
    picture: 110618
  body: I think they can be distracting at the end of lines or after commas. Also
    it's confusing to see it used with and/or. (&/or)
  created: '2005-05-16 05:23:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'i love seeing it instead of etc.: like this -> &c.'
  created: '2005-05-16 05:45:14'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "i just read on the german wikipedia about it:\r\n\r\nofficially, you may
    only use it in company names (in german). i thought only with names (\"Linda &
    Melissa\"), but it seems not. only company names.\r\n\r\nand they say that the
    & was originally a ligature of e and f in the middle age, like fi and fl today.
    b&racht& instead of betrachtet (=\"look at something\" in german), in english
    it would be d&ermination instead of determination."
  created: '2005-05-16 19:51:41'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: For what it's worth, the Chicago Manual of Style, the bible of "correct" academic
    writing, agrees more or less with the German interpretation, and says ampersands
    should be avoided UNLESS they are part of a company name OR a commonly used abbreviation
    (B&W, C&W, R&B, R&D and so on).
  created: '2005-05-17 13:40:09'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "It\u2019s funny to see the ampersand creeping into the <em>Russian</em> usage...
    Apparently, it is being associated with things \u2018Western\u2019, \u2018capitalist\u2019,
    &c. And it looks so chic in the Cyrillic context. Some ad agencies just love it.
    Incidentally, the Russian for \u2018and\u2019 is the <strong>i</strong> (yes,
    that \u2018inverted N\u2019, U+0418 and U+0438), and the meaning of the ampersand
    (& = <em>et</em>) is completely lost on the Russians. But who cares? It is so
    cute."
  created: '2005-05-17 14:10:08'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: that's very interesting, Maxim. I guess I never really thought about using
    the ampersand in other language contexts, especially lanugages that use a different
    alphabet, but it's right there in the Cyrillic keyboard layout is it not? It would
    be great to see in Russian or in Spanish fanciful versions of 'i' or 'y' used
    in place of the ampersand, or do they do this already? (I always thought THAT
    was interesting, that this small, common word is spoken the same in Russian and
    Spanish.)
  created: '2005-05-17 15:41:17'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "I am afraid, you are missing my point here, Pavel. The prized effect here
    is precisely <em>the foreignness</em> of the ampersand. And, of course, it is
    as tacky as casually dropping \u2018<em>moi?</em>\u2019 or \u2018<em>au contraire</em>\u2019
    into the conversation, to show off. Cheap."
  created: '2005-05-17 18:16:51'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: It can be used in so many ways. However, I think it is a matter of appropriateness.
    The appropriate way to use it is sparingly. IMHO The word came out of--as we all
    know--the word et and has become more and more elaborately designed calling more
    and more attention to itself, no longer allowing it to simply save space but is
    now a design element.
  created: '2005-05-18 01:09:58'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i don't think i missed your point... i just thought it would be interesting
    to take the concept of the logotype and try to incorporate that into cyrillic.
    i mean we do it so much, especially with articles and prepositions, but russian,
    for example has no articles, fewer prepositions (due to case constructions) and
    many of their prepositions are simply one letter. i thought it would be less tacky
    to take the concept of the amperand and russify it, instead of injecting a foreign
    character into russian text. but then again... maybe something like that would
    only come across as showy and tacky as well?
  created: '2005-05-18 04:57:35'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I talked to a writer about it once. He was bashing designers for overusing
    it. I asked him why - I had an answer, but I wanted to hear his. His point: \"It's
    punctuation. It doesn't belong in most contexts.\" In his argument it would not
    belong in a headline. I'd make an exception to that depending on whether the decorative
    nature of it is appropriate.\r\n\r\nI think the tendency to use it is because
    it's pretty and different. Interesting that Russians associate it with Western-ness."
  created: '2005-05-18 05:54:38'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "'It can be used in so many ways.' \r\n\r\nA lot of the time, we seem to use
    it for identifying the difference between fonts! My favourite type references
    always include the numerals and the ampersand, because often it's one of the more
    distinctive characters in a typeface.\r\n\r\nAs a young 'un I was taught the Chicago
    Manual of Style version, that setting ampersands is only acceptable in company
    names and common abbreviations. Later on this also came to include (of rare necessity)
    copyfitting headlines and titles where no other alternative was available."
  created: '2005-05-18 06:12:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I had a surprisingly big arguement with a pal of mine about the use ofg '&'.
    I had used it a lot in the text on my website & he thought it was a big mistake.
    - Like in that last sentance. He is an english major. More on that later.\r\n\r\nI
    had read a very convincing article that made the point that '&' saves space, &
    that really, like anything cultural the decision to use 'and' not '&' is just
    a matter of habit or dogma - or put another way - it's use or lack of it is what
    what people are used to at the time. \r\n\r\nThe article further argued that culture
    changes & that really people could be used to using '&' instead of 'and' if we
    decided that that was what we wanted. Still more, there were aesthetic & economic
    benefits! I bought that idea. \r\n\r\nI like '&'. I like to see it. I like all
    the variatons in form it offers. The character is one of the most doted on by
    type designers & is sometimes - often - the most beautiful glyph in a font as
    a result. \r\n\r\nSo my view of '&' is nuanced. I want to see it more but I know
    it isn't widely accepted as a substitude for 'and'. I am in the minority & I know
    it. \r\n\r\nI also know that my opinion is just culture and could change - again.
    Still, I think in English we just have a body of english majors who have bought
    the dogma that '&' should not be used in body text & parrot that idea without
    looking or thinking or feeling anthing much about it. They are just stupidly rigid.
    Goddam Chicago manual. Fpppht.\r\n\r\nBTW - I like '&c' too.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-18 07:25:37'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "If you believe that text should have as few distractions along the way as
    possible - that it should flow nicely you would:\r\n\r\na) Use an en dash buffered
    by two spaces on either side \u2013 like that. The alternative\u2014em dash\u2014is
    huge and distracting.\r\n\r\nb) Use small caps instead of regular capitals so
    as to not call too much attention to them. People in the US and in the former
    USSR can both agree. It allows the reader to flow along the line.\r\n\r\nc) The
    argument that it saves space could also be applied to the percent symbol, as the
    origin of it came from truncating the fraction 1/100. I would argue that a big
    fraction is more distraction than the percent symbol and would opt for it 99%
    of the time.\r\n\r\nd) Finally, I would certainly not put an ampersand in the
    middle of a line & I would certainly not put an ampersand in the middle of a line."
  created: '2005-05-18 08:18:49'
- author:
    name: revbean
    picture: 110656
  body: The ampersand has also enjoyed a fair amount of use in poetry, at least in
    English over the last half-century or so, serving the same purpose of flow. Interestingly,
    when a poem is set in a sans serif font, further simplifying the & to a +, a prospect
    that seems vaguely blasphemous, serves that purpose even more.
  created: '2005-05-18 16:24:28'
- author:
    name: gavin
    picture: 110086
  body: "perfect arguement Joe... agree 100/100.\r\n\r\n\r\nalways kerning..."
  created: '2005-05-18 17:44:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: revbean, don't you think that the use of the & and the + in poetry is more
    or less for a sort of visual effect? I know that e.e.cummings used it, but it
    always struck me as a conscious choice.
  children:
  - author:
      name: revbean
      picture: 110656
    body: Tiffany, I'd agree that probably in Cummings's poetry, and certainly in
      that of the even more concrete poets that followed him, most typographic choices
      were likely made with a very conscious <strong>eye</strong> towards the look
      of the printed poem. However, a lot of poetry is also written with a conscious
      <strong>ear</strong> towards the sound of the poem recited. And, although this
      may very well be veering towards an entirely different conversation, I think
      that typography, especially in the context of poetry, 'and' vs '&' vs '+' for
      example, can affect, even if only minutely, the way something is read aloud.
    created: '2005-05-20 21:18:58'
  created: '2005-05-18 17:48:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the ampersand is underused (although frankly not by much). Some people
    (often amateur designers) use it too much, frivolously; but some people want to
    outlaw its use based on some strange linguistic purism, or worse still, based
    on Modernism, e.g. \"as few distractions as possible\". Information is not a distraction;
    information is useful. So if you use the ampersand in a way that helps convey
    more information (like through disambiguation), that's a good thing.\r\n\r\nExamples
    from my own writing:\r\n\r\n\"The most obvious way that Latinization affects a
    non-Latin script is in the imposition of 'foreign' formal elements such as certain
    serif structures, stroke contrast & stress, modularity, etc.\"\r\n\r\n\"Letters
    made to look like animals or nuts & bolts are not uncommon.\"\r\n\r\n\"Because
    of its high level of modularity and reliance on the basic line & circle, Futura
    presents us with much more uniform \u2013therefore ambiguous\u2013 word shapes
    than Gill Sans.\"\r\n\r\nBut the argument for saving space doesn't seem very sensical
    to me, except in rare cases where the ampersand can avoid an ungainly linebreak
    (while not being too intrusive itself).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-19 21:59:10'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'm curious, revbean, how does the ampersand <em>sound</em> different from
    the word?
  created: '2005-05-20 22:45:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I can think of two ways:\r\n1) When an ampersand looks a lot like an E+T.\r\n2)
    When the text is being read by somebody whose native language is something else.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-20 23:03:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Or when the person reading is a Chicago Manual of style dogmatist. Then small
    interuptions of flow may be heard as the bump into the disagreeable character...
  created: '2005-05-21 12:37:04'
- author:
    name: revbean
    picture: 110656
  body: "For me, and this is completely unscientific, when 'and' is spelled out and
    used in extensive repetition, it begins to feel heavy, to the point where, if
    I was reading aloud, I would begin to pause before each occurrence, treating the
    conjunction as an implied comma. The ampersand on the other hand, being a single
    character, provides a continuous flow between the linked words or phrases. This
    is possibly a construct entirely of my own\u2014logic would imply that the ampersand,
    as punctuation would be the more likely to cause one to pause slightly, and not
    the other way around."
  created: '2005-05-23 17:16:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "There is one specific use of the ampersand for disambiguation that I like.
    In American movies (and many foreign ones that follow US conventions), the Writers
    Guild requires deliberate use of \"and\" vs \"&\" to distinguish the relationship
    of the writers.\r\n\r\nFor example, screenplay by \"Elba Matzoff and Chris Sobrino
    & Pat Roberts\" means that Chris and Pat actually worked together on a version
    of the screenplay, whereas Elba did a treatment or rewrite on her own.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-05-26 23:45:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "What a nice example! Both because it is distinction with a definite meaning
    as used by this guild,  And because it shows how arbitrary a choice it is -  It
    might have been the other way around. An '&' seems to draw two names closer (
    to me at least ) not the other way around. Still, once the choice is made, it's
    done for a while - it's culture. Until culture changes.\r\n\r\nWhen re-reading
    this I stared thinking about quotes & started imagining how you could have a similar
    sort of thread about which is better \r\n\r\n- french quotes <strong> < quote
    > </strong> \r\n( poor attempt at this for m of quote I know ) \r\n\r\n-  or english
    ones<strong> \"quote\"</strong>. \r\n\r\nOne culture goes one way the other another.
    They certainly 'feel' different, but is one better? Im not sure one is. I think
    The '& - and' debate is the same way. \r\n\r\nTalking about reading and pauses,
    I agree an '&' is probably going to make most folks pause a little more just because
    they see it less often. Sort of like if you set a section of text or a word in
    some font unfamiliar to the reader.\r\n\r\nOf course once the reader gets used
    to it - then it's different thing."
  created: '2005-06-01 02:09:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Perhaps we need a new thread, Eben. But, for me guillemets (no?) stand out
    much more than the quotes. This is purely cultural as I grew up reading the quotes
    and not guillemets. But, I'd imagine that it would be vice versa for someone who,
    perhaps, grew up in France.
  created: '2005-06-01 16:48:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love guillemets, and I think they work fine in English. Once you get used
    to them they're a lot \"smoother\" than floating quotes, especially when you have
    an adjacent apostrophe.\r\n\r\nYou know what I found the other day? What I believe
    is the earliest instance of \"rationalist\" quotes. And they're French guillemets!
    You <strong>have</strong> to see them.\r\n\r\nAnd yeah, new thread please!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-01 17:40:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Here are those fabulous \"hybrid\" rationalist* quotes:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Tuleu/NGravure.gif\r\n\r\nHave
    you ever seen anything as unorthodox as it is functional?\r\nThe font is called
    \"nouvelle gravure\", cut in 1847 by M Legrand.\r\nAbout 50 years before ATF did
    it with \"Anglo\" quotes, and without\r\nthe impetus of mechanical facilitation
    (the pantograph).\r\n\r\n* Which is what I call quotes that both face \"in\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-01 19:17:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Here's something I just ran into: \"With 10% unemployment, falling prices
    and demand for wine I guess they think 'something' has to be done.\" It's unclear
    that both the prices <strong>and</strong> the demand for wine are falling. Sure,
    you can deduce it from the context, but that's just wasted effort; and sure, the
    sentence could be rewritten to avoid ambiguity, but why bother, when all you need
    to do is use an ampersand? Elegant, smooth, rich.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-02 07:26:15'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Here is where I would <em>definitely</em> insert an ampersand:\r\n\r\nWith
    10 percent unemployment, falling prices, and a falling demand for wine & other
    luxury goods, I guess they though that \"something\" had to be done.\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-02 08:07:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That too. But you have a new problem: in your version all prices are falling;
    but it's only wine prices.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-02 15:58:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think his point had to do with the point at which he felt an '&' would
    be appropriate. He was just differing. \r\n\r\nDan, you are suggesting that it
    takes a little more before you would use an '&'. No?\r\n\r\nI like these examples.
    Both of them. I take Hrant's point to be and please forgive me if I miss it -
    that there is a point when the '&' adds to flow rather than taking away from it.
    That the glyph, when used in a subtle way reinforces the inteneded meaning of
    the sentance. Is that right? So far that feels right to me. \r\n\r\nOn the other
    hand I would like a description of what is at work here. When & how does this
    happen & why? Can it be explained?\r\n\r\nMy intuition tells me that - no - it
    can't - really it's all utterly relative to what your used to & the fact that
    these examples feel good & right to me has to do with some shared typographic
    cultural soup I happen to be in rather than some sort of noncultural aspect of
    type like maybe this bouma shape we hear so much about.\r\n\r\nThen again maybe
    I'm wrong.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-02 17:28:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me it seems to be a balance of the undeniable jarring effect of the \"&\"
    glyph versus its -also undeniable- semantic usefulness in adding structural information
    to a sentence. The big question is, how fast can a person get used to seeing it
    in text? Like how far into Gill's \"Essay\" does the typical reader (not at all
    the same as the typical type designer) stop noticing the glyph and just absorb
    the content?\r\n\r\nLacking strong insight into Familiarity (a pervasive issue
    in type design), hyperconservative people will totally shun the ampersand (since
    it constitutes a deviation from the status quo), while iconoclasts will overdose
    on it. The people in the middle are -as always- in the most difficult position,
    since they actually feel compelled to think about it, to try it out and objectively
    gauge the effects on the ground.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-02 17:44:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I agree Hrant, but for one thing - I don't know that this searched for objectivity
    exists to be found. \r\n\r\nStill, I like your subjective examples very much -
    Any chancce you want to explain how you decide? Is it just a feeling? "
  created: '2005-06-02 18:23:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's just another type of decision when you're writing, I guess. When an
    ampersand can save me (and the reader) from an overly-ponderous sentence, or when
    it unifies things that are really one concept (e.g. \"line & circle\" above),
    I use it. Come to think of it, it's sort of like using parantheses in a math equation
    to explain what gets multiplied before/after being added, etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-02 18:43:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, another character that's underused -in fact much more so than the ampersand-
    is the humble hyphen: very often, dumping it (either by separating or joining
    the two components) reduces comprehension. My favorite example is \"readjust\",
    which is virtually impossible to read smoothly, because of the two strong boumas
    (\"read\" and \"just\") breaking the compound in the wrong place. To me \"re-adjust\"
    is a simple act of kindness to the reader.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-02 18:52:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "So you are saying that to you the '&' tightens the connection. I agree. Hollywood
    writing standards apparently don't - but I don't care. The fact that the space
    is decreased is enough for me to have it feel closer. I guess the counter arguement
    might be that 'and' is natural and common whereas the '&' is exotic - by current
    use anyway. But I don't feel that way.\r\n\r\nThe important idea behind all the
    non-iconoclastic suggestions I have seen here is that the '&' can somehow suggest
    a different kind of sense of '&/and'. A different flavor or intesity of '&/and'.\r\n\r\nYou
    & Dan are also suggesting that an '&' after a long string of text helps the flow
    of reading. So maybe there is some sort of linguistic or visual rule that could
    be invented. For instance: if the sentance you have is over 'x' number of words/charcters
    long and no ascenders or descenders come within 'x' number of characters then
    an ampersad is preferable to 'and' because it aids in reading - or something better
    thought out - but do you see where I am going? The use could be described. But
    it would be complicated. Still, I like this direction."
  created: '2005-06-02 19:05:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You & Dan\r\n\r\nYou see, this I personally wouldn't do; we're just friends.
    And although length is a factor, I think an ampersand can be useful in a short
    sentence too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-02 19:10:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "So you see You & Dan as a suggestion that you are a couple or something?
    Wow. That is tight. :-)\r\n\r\nI dug this up by accident\r\n\r\nThis is from \r\n\r\nhttp://store.adobe.com/type/topics/theampersand.html
    \r\n\r\n\"Ampersand usage varies from language to language. In English and French
    text, the ampersand may be substituted for the words and and et, and both versions
    may be used in the same text. The German rule is to use the ampersand within formal
    or corporate titles made up of two separate names; according to present German
    composition rules, the ampersand may not be used in running text. In any language,
    the ampersand's calligraphic qualities make it a compelling design element that
    can add visual appeal and personality to any page.\" - Max Caflisch\r\n\r\nSo
    permisive... ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-02 19:21:19'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "eben, when I have to write \"and\u2026 and\u2026\", then I try to put in
    an ampersand in place of one of those ands. But the first thing I would try to
    do is rewrite the sentence that I used commas and phrases better, and would only
    need one and. But, if it wasn't may text, or if it just wouldn't work otherwise,
    I would put in an &, even though that is \"technically\" wrong. Sometime, it just
    makes more sense in context, I think.\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-02 19:29:23'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "In the book Finer Points in the Spacing & Arrangement of Type there is a
    good argument for the use of the ampersand in text, based on traditional practices.
    But it is more a British tradition.\r\n\r\nInterestingly, when Hartley & Marks
    reprinted the book, and added a new preface, they used ampersands ad nauseum and
    their setting was awful as a result because they ignored the rationale for the
    use of the ampersand. It allows for tighter word spacing (which they ignored).
    And there are usage rules (where they should be placed or not placed, how many
    to use in a line, etc.). In the context of British typesetting (mid-century) the
    use of the ampersand is not an aesthetic decision in and of itself, but a technical
    one, as it facilitates a better looking page."
  created: '2005-06-03 04:15:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Cool. Any chance you could scan or type up the text from the book?
  created: '2005-06-03 08:38:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Peter, I've always avoided the ampersand, in spite of my affection for its
    appearance, except in titling where a bond was being implied between two proper
    nouns or between two things spoken of as a unit. I like the ampersand, but I find
    it jarring outside of certain contexts. It's faster, more eye-catching, and more
    space-efficient, which makes it good for headlines, and particularly in ads.\r\n\r\nI've
    always associated ampersands with advertising/commerce for those reasons, particularly
    when they're over-used. In fact, I read a book where ampersands were intentionally
    inserted into the copy when the author wanted to emphasize something he was speaking
    about and give it a crass, commercialized edge (a sort of sarcastic marker, in
    a way, that references advertising copy). It would read something like this:\r\n\r\nHe
    was walking down the street in his blazer & loafers, showing us all how he had
    wealth & power now. But it was obvious he had just come into some cash and had
    no real class whatsoever.\r\n\r\nI can't remember who did it, though. David Foster
    Wallace, maybe?"
  created: '2005-06-03 13:44:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sarcasm or no, it works!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-03 15:23:40'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "eben\r\n\r\nSorry, don't really have the time to do that and besides, its
    illegal to do so. You can pick up used copies at either abe.com or amazon.com.
    Author is Geoffrey Dowding.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-06-03 18:07:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think providing just a snippet is Fair Use, no?\r\nBut yeah, it <strong>is</strong>
    a commonly available and affordable book.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-03 18:11:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Dowding's discussion runs several pages, beyond 'fair use' I suspect. \r\nBut
    the gist of it is that he defends using the ampersand to get more \r\nuniform
    word spacing in lines. I doubt that this will fly with publishers \r\ntoday, as
    it would be unconventional practice, and would take getting \r\nused to for readers. "
  created: '2005-06-03 18:36:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I say it's probably a Fair Use too. There might be a problem after a certain
    length of text....  But no worries. Thanks for the info all the same!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-03 18:36:50'
- author:
    name: theorosendorf
    picture: 128241
  body: "Here's a discussion on Blogdorf about the use of the ampersand & and\r\nhttp://rosendorf.us/blogdorf/archive/2005/12/15/1257.aspx\r\n\r\n~\r\nTheodore
    Rosendorf\r\nhttp://rosendorf.us"
  created: '2005-12-15 18:49:35'
- author:
    name: Letterguess
    picture: 112803
  body: "I have heard that the ampersand is a combination of E and T, spelling the
    Latin word Et meaning \"and.\" Given that the form often looks like an E and T
    and the word Et is indeed Latin for \"and,\" that's what I'm inclined to believe.\r\n&&&&&&&&&&&&"
  created: '2007-09-18 06:46:44'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>...& parrot that idea without looking or thinking or feeling anthing
    much about it. They are just stupidly rigid. Goddam Chicago manual. Fpppht.</cite>\r\n\r\nLOL.\r\n\r\nSome
    ampersands are so pretty it seems a shame to sentence them (no pun intended) to
    the mired pit of correct usage. \r\n\r\nAnd I've always been of the opinion that
    if you feel strongly about something, then play the tune. If enough people start
    marching, playing, or singing along with it you are a trend-setter, and not merely
    a rule-breaker.\r\n\r\nSome valuable art and music exist because some rule was
    broken and a bunch of people said \"YEAH!\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-19 01:22:43'
- author:
    name: interrobang_lp
    picture: 110173
  body: "We're actually having an argument about this in the office now. \r\n\r\nA
    creative director wants to lead a line with an ampersand and I flatly refuse.\r\n\r\nThe
    ampersand should be used judiciously, typically as has been mentioned in company
    names and the like, as well as where space constraints dictate, though this is
    more an issue in hot metal."
  created: '2008-02-05 23:50:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I avoid at all costs starting a line with an ampersand. It is just as ugly
    as starting a line with a dash (of any length).
  created: '2008-02-05 23:54:44'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>A creative director wants to lead a line with an ampersand and I flatly
    refuse.</cite>\r\n\r\nGood for you; starting a line with an ampersand would be
    quite dreadful."
  created: '2008-02-06 01:43:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I would have to see it before forming an opinion.
  created: '2008-02-06 05:33:40'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>I would have to see it before forming an opinion.</cite>\r\n\r\nI like
    that attitude."
  created: '2008-02-06 05:41:46'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Hi Steve,\r\n\r\nyour link is broken. Here you go: <a href=\"http://www.fonts.com/aboutfonts/articles/letterseries/ampersand.htm\">\u2018Ampersand\u2019
    by Allan Haley</a>.\r\nF"
  created: '2008-02-10 14:48:36'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "I put out a newsletter I call <em><strong>&cetera</em></strong>.\r\n\r\nTake
    a look at Allan Haley's piece on the ampersand <strong> \r\n[[http://www.fonts.com/aboutfonts/articles/letterseries/ampersand.htm|here]].
    </strong>\r\n\r\nHe did a longer piece for X-height magazine, but it seems to
    exist only in print. If anyone knows if and where it's available online, I'd be
    most grateful.\r\n\r\nAn excerpt from <em>Finer Points in the Spacing & Arrangement
    of Type</em> on the ampersand is available <strong>[[http://timoni.org/?p=25|here]]</strong>,
    about halfway down. "
  created: '2008-02-10 14:51:56'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: Hmmm. The editing feature is still not fixed. After I edited my post (adding
    "An excerpt from...") I found and corrected the first bad link. By the time the
    edit was (re)posted, if appeared after Florian's. Thanks, Florian, for beating
    me to my own correction!
  created: '2008-02-10 15:03:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<cite> I like that attitude. </cite>\r\n\r\nMe too."
  created: '2008-02-10 23:29:42'
- author:
    name: Ch
    picture: 112205
  body: "i often prefer to use a +\r\n\r\ncleaner, less filling."
  created: '2008-02-11 14:47:51'
- author:
    name: jayyy
    picture: 109661
  body: "What a great thread. The things you can find in the Typophile basement!\r\n\r\nI
    had a discussion about this a week ago and based on my gut feeling removed a lot
    of ampersands from the body text of a resume, leaving some in headings, company
    names etc.\r\n\r\nFor me it is an aesthetic decision and I feel that ampersands
    in running texts are distracting and inappropriate.\r\n\r\nAs for the + symbol,
    quite pos+moderm I think :)"
  created: '2008-07-24 20:27:15'
- author:
    name: BarbHauser
    picture: 113520
  body: "Well, I arrived at this thread because I'm handsetting a colophon in lead
    type, Caslon Italic No. 540, and as I was counting the sorts to see if I had enough,
    the ampersands got my attention. They're very flamboyant and begged to be used.
    There are only two occurrences of \"and\" in the colophon, but I wasn't sure if
    it was right to use ampersands in what actually was a paragraph of running text.\r\n\r\nI
    looked in Geoffrey Dowding's <em>Finer Points in the Spacing & Arrangement of
    Type</em> and was happy to find an entire section on the use of the ampersand
    (pages 23 through 29 of the paperback edition). He begins the discussion by saying
    that, in hand composition, \"The judicious use of the short \u2018and\u2019 invariably
    improves the appearance and readability of a setting\" by providing an additional
    option in word spacing. But what rang truer to me were some thoughts he passed
    on from George D. Painter of the British Museum's Department of Printed Books:
    \"[the ampersand] is or can be a beautiful object in its own right, and was dwelt
    upon more lovingly by scribes and type-designers than any other sort except Qu,
    I should say.\"\r\n\r\nI should say. I decided to use the ampersands in the colophon
    but not in the main text, which is a poem and doesn't need word spacing to justify
    lines, and which will be set in Caslon Oldstyle No. 471, whose ampersands are
    stodgy by comparison. Now I just have to decide whether to use one in the title,
    which I would like to set in some sort of casual script. It would fall at the
    beginning of the second of two lines. Mr. Puckett above says that \"starting a
    line with an ampersand would be quite dreadful,\" but Dowding says, \"It should
    be remembered that while the (&) looks quite happy at the beginning of a line
    it may not do so at the extreme end of a line...\". I suppose I'll have to see
    it before forming an opinion."
  created: '2008-10-24 07:02:16'
- author:
    name: luxuryluke
    picture: 112078
  body: bump
  created: '2010-06-22 20:48:07'
- author:
    name: microspective
    picture: 111866
  body: (Grateful for the bump. This was a fun read.)
  created: '2010-06-22 21:16:29'
- author:
    name: mjr
    picture: 112731
  body: "There are some publications that deal with railroads which have a guideline
    to always use an ampersand within the name of a railroad, even if the company
    name officially uses <em>and</em.> That is because those publications tend to
    run strings of railroad names together, and the ampersand helps distinguish between
    them.\r\n\r\nFor example, consider the sentence:\r\n\r\n<em>Some classic railroads
    of the past included the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe; the New York, New Haven
    & Hartford; the Delaware & Hudson, and the Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific.</em>"
  created: '2010-06-29 23:38:28'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "hey guys, I've got an additional question regarding the use of an ampersand.
    \r\nIs using an ampersand from a serifed face in a sans-serif headline considered
    bad tone?\r\nI'm trying to establish the limitations to Bringhursts 'use the best
    available ampersand' rule.\r\nI've got a sub heading set in National book smallcaps,
    and am having a tough time finding a suitable, aesthetically interesting ampersand
    to go with it. Thanks."
  created: '2010-09-08 00:57:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'If you ask, you might get a small cap ampersand from Village and Kris Sowersby. '
  created: '2010-09-08 01:20:02'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I've been including a small cap ampersand in the fonts I've release over
    the last few years.\r\n\r\nDon't ask, don't tell!"
  created: '2010-09-08 01:56:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If there isn't a small cap ampersand, you can shrink the normal ampersand
    and stroke it up to a suitable weight, in your page layout application.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-08 03:19:43'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "National does have a small cap ampersand, not the most dashing ampersand
    however. So my main question is whether it's ok for me to use an ampersand from
    a serifed typeface in line with sans. I was thinking minion pro italic for an
    ampersand.\r\n\r\nthanks."
  created: '2010-09-08 03:38:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> stroke it up\r\n\r\n!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-08 03:58:21'
- author:
    name: victor ivanov
    picture: 111726
  body: "hrant: sorry, i'm not sure what you mean. could you please elaborate? \r\ni'm
    guessing it to achieve a consistent stroke width throughout? so is it ok to use
    an ampersand from a serifed face so long as the stroke widths are consistent?
    \r\n\r\n\r\nthanks for your feedback everyone"
  created: '2010-09-08 04:10:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Here's my \"fluffing\" technique:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fluff_3999.png]\r\n1.
    Small caps and ampersand same size (24 pt.)\r\n2. Reduce size of ampersand (17
    pt.)\r\n3. Apply stroke to ampersand (0.17 pt.)\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-08 05:46:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dude, do people need type designers or not?!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-08 06:39:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If typographers are discerning enough to use this technique, they will quickly
    come to the conclusion that it's not infallible, is a lot of hassle, and doesn't
    work nearly so well for fonts with serifs, contrast, and bold weight. So they
    will develop a taste for the real deal. That's my agenda :-).\r\n\r\nIn the meantime,
    it can enhance the faux effect provided by applications.\r\nFor a subhead in a
    regular weight sans, it's not too bad.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nBut if Peter is still
    considering inserting a serif ampersand in a sans setting, I would say not unless
    there is a bit of a \"wordmark\" treatment; otherwise, in a straight setting,
    the mere use of the ampersand character provides enough interest.\r\n\r\nThe meme
    which combines ornate ampersand with block sans is used primarily for titles,
    and acronyms.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aandelogo_6116.png]"
  created: '2010-09-08 16:38:42'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"discerning enough to use this technique\"</cite>\r\nFunny logic.
    To me stroking type because it's too light seems about as \xABdiscerning\xBB as
    squooshing type because it doesn't fit in the designated space."
  created: '2010-09-08 19:09:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "So this is your h&j setting?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/just_4190.png]"
  created: '2010-09-08 19:41:43'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I'm not at my office computer right now. But what I can tell you is that
    with \xABsquooshing\xBB I mean Glyph Scaling, which yes I have definitely always
    set to 100%."
  created: '2010-09-08 19:49:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Nina, varying letter spacing and glyph spacing by two or three percentage
    points (to improve justification) is a perfectly acceptable \"cheat\", that isn't
    noticeable as such. You should try it some time.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nNote that I
    advocate stroking for faking small caps primarily for regular sans serif fonts.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    when faking small caps, it may be useful to increase horizontal scaling and tracking
    as well.\r\n\r\nI stress that this process is for discerning typographers, because
    it requires subtle massage and a good eye.\r\n\r\n**\r\n\r\nThese transformations
    (adding weight, adjusting scaling and spacing) are the same ones used by type
    designers when we make small caps -- although we have more subtle tools (allowing
    different additions of weight to the x and y axis) and also add further manual
    tweaking. I would imagine that the vast majority of true small caps are created
    by type designers by thus modifying upper case glyphs. At least, that's the way
    I always work, and I can't imagine why one would make them from scratch, rather
    than modifying upper case glyphs."
  created: '2010-09-08 21:13:47'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "<cite>\"You should try it some time.\"</cite>\r\nNick, I have. I guess we
    have different thresholds of acceptability. FWIW, I do use tracking differences
    of a few 1/1000s when it's really unavoidable (as it sometimes just is); but I
    don't subscribe to distorting type.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I stress that this process
    is for discerning typographers\"</cite>\r\nAnd I stress that discerning typographers
    know when not to fake something. At least in my book, <em>no</em> small caps are
    clearly better than fake small caps* (and yes also better than stroked fake small
    caps).\r\n\r\n(* Except <em>maybe</em> on the web, where the generally coarse
    resolution may make the difference less perceptible.)"
  created: '2010-09-09 00:27:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...discerning typographers know when not to fake something...</em>\r\n\r\nOK,
    then please identify which of these are real, and which faux:\r\n(Screen grab
    from InDesign file.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/scaps_5130.png]\r\n\r\nAdmittedly,
    I copied true small caps, then applied stroke, tracking and horizontal scaling
    to match.\r\nBut if one doesn't have true small caps to copy, then one really
    does have to be discerning to create a good faux small caps effect in InDesign.
    \r\nTo follow on Hrant's comment, it's a bit like type design. "
  created: '2010-09-09 03:12:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I guess we have different thresholds of acceptability.\r\n\r\nNot to mention
    nausea.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-14 14:30:20'
- author:
    name: deadsea
    picture: 119023
  body: in Turkish, the ampersand may also have meaning "versus" meanwhile. So, the
    designer should be careful while using it, if the two elements are contradictory
    the ampersand is the sign of "versus".
  created: '2011-03-09 20:51:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> in Turkish, the ampersand may also have meaning \"versus\"\r\n\r\nInteresting.
    Any examples?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-03-09 22:42:58'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: As in <cite>Tom & Jerry</cite>?
  created: '2011-03-10 09:14:36'
- author:
    name: deadsea
    picture: 119023
  body: "@ Interesting. Any examples?\r\n\r\nThe usage of ampersand is very rare in
    Turkey, why? No idea :) On the other hand you can see especially in sports posters
    in the meaning of versus.\r\n\r\n@ As in Tom & Jerry?\r\n\r\nYes sir, we can consider
    as it is. I do not mean that ampersand means \"versus\" in Turkish; it has also
    a lateral meaning to be careful of use.\r\n\r\nTom&Jerry means \"Tom and Jerry\"
    and also it can be understood like versus."
  created: '2011-04-14 16:16:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I wonder if \"vs\" (or the sound \"versus\") might mean\r\nsomething inappropriate
    (or confusing) in Turkish?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-04-14 17:41:06'
- author:
    name: deadsea
    picture: 119023
  body: "Not quite, it is not about the sound or the meaning.. It is all about the
    \"glyph\".\r\n\r\nVocals are different cases. Almost all languages pronounce the
    letter \"i\" in other way, this does not change the meaning of the letter."
  created: '2011-04-19 22:47:39'
- author:
    name: _savage
    picture: 127156
  body: While reading the [[http://www.amazon.com/Points-Spacing-Arrangement-Classic-Typography/dp/0881791199|Finer
    Points in the Spacing & Arrangements of Type]] I was impressed by the evenness
    of the text, which the author said was due to the use of the ampersand. Yet, I
    found that <em>reading</em> flowing text felt stumbly because of it. My brain
    always had to consciously substitute in the "and" but that is perhaps because
    I don't read it often enough :-)
  created: '2015-03-19 13:54:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In fact I think there's a false correlation between evenness of color and
    readability. Information comes only from contrast.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2015-03-19 16:46:19'
- author:
    name: JamesM
  body: "This is usually a decision for the copywriter, not the designer. \r\n\r\nIt's
    generally not used except in company names, citations, situations with limited
    space (like a chart or table), and a few other special circumstances. Not in text."
  created: '2015-03-19 18:16:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I like using the ampersand for pairing things, like: \"He uses the line &
    circle in all his work.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2015-03-19 18:58:03'
date: '2005-05-14 22:45:04'
node_type: forum
title: Appropriate use of the ampersand

---
