---
author:
  name: paul d hunt
  picture: 109422
body: "it's interesting to see what laymen think about the topic of [[piracy]]:\r\nhttp://fontleech.com/04/29/2005/weekend-discussion-questions-6-piracy/"
comments:
- author:
    name: Forrest L Norvell
    picture: 109561
  body: "I eventually got exhausted and had to bail out of that discussion, even though
    it was still really educational to force myself to do the reading and actually
    engage with people's arguments, rather than just arguing from gut principles.
    Also, I think it would have been inappropriate for me to try to follow up that
    last comment from Augereau. It seemed like a fitting last word on what a messy
    and complex discussion that question started.\r\n\r\nI think [[Dan Reynolds]]
    got beat up, more than a little unfairly, simply for being a representative of
    The Man (albeit a pretty low-level representative of a pretty lowercase The Man,
    but that's how it goes). I like the Fontleech discussion questions, because they
    seem simple but really get to the heart of things.\r\n\r\nI'm still not sure what
    was up with the Les Mis\xE9rables references, though."
  created: '2005-05-17 10:13:31'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Aside from representing \"the man\" (someday I'm going to have more fun with
    that phrase), I got beat up because of a EULA misunderstanding. St. Claude of
    Garamond (I just love anonymous posters) beleives that downloading a font and
    printing it without *installing* it on a  computer first in not a EULA violation.\r\n\r\nIt
    is a EULA violation. Whether the action is morally correct or not is irrelevant,
    and is another discussion. EULAs can change, so can the whole industry. They probably
    should. But I just can't get how some people can say \"according to the way the
    rules are now, I am not doing anything incorrectly. Not a thing. It is only those
    big foundries who are behaving improperly. I want their fonts under my conditions,
    therefore, I should have them.\"\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-05-17 11:05:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nMaybe I should call myself \"St Chris of Leporello\" :-) \r\n\r\nI
    guess some folks still believe that if your business is bigger than a college
    dorm rom, you are the enemy and should give everything to them free.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-05-17 18:01:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "The biggest problem, as I see it, with Mr. Claude's statement, is the fact
    that foundry's will and perhaps should take that into account and add it to the
    EULA. Anyone licensing the type will not be affected by it but those not licensing
    the type will automatically be violating the EULA whether they received a copy
    of it with their illegally acquired font software or not. \r\n\r\nWhile it has
    been said by an amazingly jovial head of a huge foundry that he doesn't \"bother
    with those people that illegally download because they wouldn't license anyway\",
    if his hand were forced I'd imagine that adding some sort of activation code to
    his fonts wouldn't be a stretch. I hated having to activate my CS2 from Adobe,
    but I can understand that it is necessary. Oi!"
  created: '2005-05-17 18:03:49'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: "I work with several design firms, and I've observed that buying fonts is
    completely off the radar for small creative firms. They just accumulate the fonts
    that have gotten bundled with software over the years, sharing them with customers,
    printers, and other design firms as needed. And I'd be astonished if any small
    company cared about EULAs or was even aware of them.\r\n\r\nActivation, in my
    humble opinion, is a pretty bad business idea (not to mention technically unfeasible)
    unless you have a monopoly on the market like Adobe has. Especially for type,
    trying to manage any kind of workflow between departments and firms with fonts
    that required activation would be anathema. No one would bother with those fonts
    unless they managed to acquire copies that worked without activation. "
  created: '2005-05-18 07:34:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">No one would bother with those fonts unless they managed to acquire copies
    that worked without activation.\r\n\r\nAn activation bonus would be a good incentive.\r\nFor
    instance, \"Buy the new Garamond from Adobe, and get a free CS upgrade\".\r\n\r\nIf
    there were an easy-to-use method for activation (part of the Font Info procedure
    in Fontlab) a lot of foundries would use it. We could offer stuff like T-shirts
    as a premium, or bonus fonts. The only activation the T's would need: approval
    from one's significant other."
  created: '2005-05-18 12:03:35'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "> And I\u2019d be astonished if any small company cared about EULAs or was
    even aware of them.\r\n\r\nThe majority of my customers work for, or own small
    firms. I'm sure some small firms\r\ndon't care about EULAs, but many do and often
    take the time to call or email with\r\nquestions about licensing. "
  created: '2005-05-18 14:11:34'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "There's still this belief that activation actually prevents piracy. It does
    not. It just adds a hurdle to the paying customer and a slight (maybe welcome?)
    challenge to the prolific pirateer. The more restrictive a EULA becomes, the more
    likely there's going to be a larger group of consumers that will 'revolt' against
    that.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-18 15:31:59'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I don't like the idea of activation, but I like the idea of activation t-shirts.
    They could say \"Activation, ON!\" in whatever font was licensed.\r\n\r\nOr maybe
    it could be like the military's system of pins and ribbons. Then you could go
    to type conventions and show off all of your 'fonts activated' lapel pins, or
    something.\r\n\r\nAs fun as that sounds, I think activtion is a step too far for
    fonts."
  created: '2005-05-18 16:14:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I wasn't on the side of activation I am simply suggesting one problem that
    could arise from continued mass piracy. I disliked trouble-shooting my CS2 activation,
    very much in fact. But, I understand the need for it and so as I worked through
    it I tried to keep that in mind. All said it only took 20 minutes to figure out
    why it didn't work the first time.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-18 17:39:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Aluminum, I realize that the activation mostly gives some bored hacker a
    new little project. However, it isn't my choice either way. I don't create, I
    only license. So if a foundry adds activation to their fonts I can always choose
    to find another replacement. \r\n\r\nPerhaps the smaller foundries should be cheering
    on activation as it will most likely only happen at the larger foundries first.
    Thus, when it does happen, perhaps there will be a boost in sales at the smaller
    foundries. ::wink::"
  created: '2005-05-18 17:44:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> it will most likely only happen at the larger foundries first.\r\n\r\nThe
    biggest foundries are Microsoft and Adobe, the bundlers. It's unlikely they will
    ever require activation for their fonts, as the whole point of their distributing
    them by the million, without cost, is to make it easy for people to use their
    other software, the stuff they make their income off.\r\n\r\nBut I would certainly
    consider activation for my fonts. I figure the people that bother to buy them
    in the first place are the decent sort that do things right on principle. Besides,
    my EULA allows copying to service bureau, so what possible difficulty could freelancers
    and small agencies (the major pirates) have -- unless they want to provide free
    copies of the fonts to their clients and friends."
  created: '2005-05-18 18:13:52'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: "Activation just plain sucks. Period. The more copy protection a software
    has, the stronger my tendency to BUY it and THEN dwnload a cracked version, as
    it is getting easier to install and use the crack than the full legal version,
    Oh, the fun I had with a recent system crash and Office. After the online system
    of course denied the installation on a different machine I had to go through their
    phone system, and then again after the repaired machine was here again. Sucky
    Sucky Sucky. \r\n\r\nOne of the reasons I quit QXP was the annoying dongle. Activation
    is a MAJOR gripe or me with Adobe. Won't stop any cracker (actually, there are
    seemingly already some cracked US-versions of CS2-products available, weirdly
    enough) and is an annoyance to regular customers. As if serial numbers weren't
    worse enough. \r\n\r\nHD Schellnack"
  created: '2005-05-18 19:15:21'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: ":^/ Ok, so this all of this has me discombobulated ... Nick, for some reason
    you are the last person I expected to say you <em>would</em> use activation. Your
    EULA is a model citizen of all EULAs. Do you have known problems of your fonts
    be pirated?\r\n\r\nIn a way Adobe did require activation to get access to their
    Garamond Premier. On the one hand, I'm giddy as a school girl to have that type
    family, but on the other hand I was shocked that it was the bonus prize for upgrading
    to CS2. \r\n\r\nThe dongle was a pain in the tuckas. I don't disagree about activation
    being equally painful. But, HD, did it keep you from upgrading to CS2?"
  created: '2005-05-18 21:37:55'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: "I kept me a looooong time from upgrading to CS1. Long time. I'll upgade to
    CS2, of course. But Adobe, alas, is a monopolist and there are no two ways around
    using photoshop or InDesign for me. With more subsitutable products, activation
    and paranoic security measure keep me well away from then. \r\n\r\nAs I said,
    my new method seems to be that I actually buy the stuff and THEN get a crack.
    This whole Office ordeal really wrecked my nerves. \r\n\r\nSee, I wanna be a good
    customer, I really do. But right now I get the massive feeling that the companies
    do their level best to micromanage me to death with their upfront mistrust. Don't
    eben get me started on f***ing DRM on MP3-TRacks. As long as that exists, I ain't
    gonna buy even one track from iTunes & al. I stil buy CDs and make my own MP3.
    \r\n\r\nHD Schellnack"
  created: '2005-05-19 07:38:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You're right Tiff, maybe activation isn't such a good idea for fonts.\r\n\r\nI
    think piracy is a bit of a red herring, as an intellectual property concern for
    \"the type industry\". For most foundries, font bundling by the oligarchs -- Microsoft,
    Adobe, and Apple -- is the questionable practice which is most detrimental to
    their business. For two reasons. First, as Capthaddock observes:\r\n\r\n\"they
    just accumulate the fonts that have gotten bundled with software over the years,
    sharing them with customers, printers, and other design firms as needed.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    practice has become established for all fonts, not just \"free\" bundled fonts.
    Meta as shareware.\r\n\r\nSecondly, of course, by providing most of the fonts
    most people need, bundling marginalizes the retail font market. \r\n\r\n\"The
    type industry\" is not, as one contributor at FontLeech seems to think, monolithic.
    Although we do all get together and sing from the same book for typefests such
    as TypeCon and ATypI, the interests of the independent foundries are not the same
    as those of the software oligarchs, who call the tune."
  created: '2005-05-19 09:32:07'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: "I think, what it comes down to, with software, music, videos and all that
    alike, are some points like these. \r\n\r\n\u2013 People who have money will spend
    their money on legitimate product, if they deem it worth it. This has always been
    the case and will remain true, even in the digital age. \r\n\r\n\u2013 people
    who have no money will find ways to get on prated versions, no matter how much
    the data is protected. This has always been the case, even before the internet.
    And frankly, a school kid downloading stuff he could never have afforded to buy
    in the first place is not costing anybody money. Some student or third-world-small-scale-designer
    designer who maybe couldn't have afforded the Meta family in the first place,
    also is NOT costing FSI money. God, LET those people use pirated versions, it's
    just sharing wealth. In he end, the wealth probably WILL come back to you. \r\n\r\n-
    Brand image, personal sympathy and identification,quality, service becom more
    imporant than ever, asurdly at a time when most bigger companies try to save money
    in these areas. You don't steal mp3s from a band you really like, beacuse you
    want them to make a living of their art. I guess you'd have less compunction downloading
    a Madonna song, but most people I know would never ever hurt a band they \xABknow\xBB
    and like. You don't steal from a friends house. Along the same lines you don't
    use pirated fonts from people you like. It's that easy. What we need isn't paranoia,
    as this hasn't kept piracy at bay since the 70s... but rather, as strange as that
    sounds, a feeling of trust and friendship. The digital availability of music,
    video and font will either demand an Orwellian DRM-System, and I'm very concerned
    that such systems will in the long term absolutely hurt the system at large. Maybe
    I'm wrong here. People actually use iTunes and the iPod... and seem to have verylittle
    problem with the fact that Big Brother is controlling their iTunes-bought music
    for them. On tghe other hand, we have a chance that companies just effing trust
    their customers and engage in a dialogue and simply ask nicely for their money.
    I think, in the end, they will earn MORE that way. Large comapnies such as Adobe
    and Lino and even FSI shoul work at becoming approachable, personal virtually
    smaller-feeling and more personal firms. They need faces. Smaller companies, such
    as Thirstype, already have the personal touch, and frankly, I think they have
    not that much to worry about. \r\n\r\n\r\nHD Schellnack"
  created: '2005-05-19 12:56:31'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "<em>But I would certainly consider activation for my fonts. I figure the
    people that bother to buy them in the first place are the decent sort that do
    things right on principle.</em>\r\n\r\nThen there's absolutely no reason to consider
    activation. Activation only annoys the decent sort of folks that do things right
    on principle.\r\n\r\nOne thing I like about iTunes is how easy it is to strip
    the DRM from their files. I gladly purchase music from iTunes, because I konw
    I won't have to deal with the DRM...unlike the competition. ;o)"
  created: '2005-05-19 14:56:34'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: I don't read licenses.
  created: '2005-05-22 01:16:11'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: "\r\nActivation sounds like gun control. It only has an impact on those who
    follow the rules. Criminals will always get firearms, regardless of the laws surrounding
    gun control and software pirates will always have free fonts.\r\n\r\nI wonder,
    what kinds of effort go into enforcing font licenses and dealing with acts of
    piracy? I have to imagine that it is very hard to enforce a font license.\r\n\r\n--\r\nMike"
  created: '2005-05-22 20:48:10'
- author:
    name: James Gareth
    picture: 110251
  body: The next version of DVD may require online DRM authentication, in which case
    I won't buy it even though the thought of HD-DVD is intoxicating. DRM, activation
    and all the other schemes that make it painful for  a user to use are just stupid.
    They don't work. Piracy will always exist. If my beloved fonts start with the
    activation schemes, I'm liable to go postal. What's next, TV shows that won't
    play unless you  watch the commercials? Shoot me now.
  created: '2005-05-22 21:52:38'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: "\r\nThe really sad thing is consumers that follow the rules are the ones
    who pay. Any company that gets ripped off consistently has to build that cost
    into their pricing. So, you and I have to cover the expense of lost revenues for
    things like software and fonts when we purchase them.\r\n\r\nThere has to be a
    better way. Whoever figures out how that better way works will be quite wealthy.\r\n\r\n--\r\nMike"
  children:
  - author:
      name: KR
    body: "If you find or hear about the person who does figure this out...will ya'
      let me know?\r\n\r\nIt's not honestly the private collectors so to speak that
      I am really bothered with here.  They are not the ones causing me headaches.
      \ So many people have taken KR files right off my website, installed them and
      then made money off them.  How?  Would you believe that the most common group
      of offenders that I have had in the last two years (let me know if this surprises
      you, it did me!) ...  digital machine embroiders!  Try a yahoo search for 'machine
      embroidery fonts' or the same on eBay.  I've had to send Cease & Desist letters
      along with a demand for payment too many times.  It's not just the big boys
      like Adobe or big (another 'get this moment') scrapbooking font sites either.
      \ Many other 'my office is in my living room' types like me are seriously up
      against a wall here.  I can happily say though, I have had many people settle
      right up, be responsible, pay what is owed me, went back to using the file again
      and started to make money for themselves again.  You have no idea, or do you?
      - just how many of these offenders think that taking down the money-maker (designs
      made SOLELY by a KR file) should make me happy - and place them no longer responsible.
      \ You don't want me to get into the threats, some even personal - and the unwillingness
      to take responsibility for their actions.  \r\n\r\n(Check the 'royalties and
      licensing' forum for my other post)\r\n\r\nFor me, the simple and clear-cut
      here issue is - if you're making money off the file, then so should I.\r\n\r\nMy
      favorite 'lines' from the past ....No I didn't - I didn't do it - oh, you have
      proof - bad me - watch the items for sale disappear from their site or store
      and they think they are done - or here,  let me send you a  note asking how
      much licenses are and then when I don't hear back from the person I check their
      site later down the road and I see, you guessed it, a bunch of items made for
      sale made solely from my file - for approximately 2yrs. now -or- what happened
      today - a woman I have been trying to make settle up - for a problem she created
      - took down her old site..put a new one up... shoots me a note I guess trying
      to look all legal  n'such saying \"I don't have anything of yours' on my site\"
      - well duh lady..you took down that one - the problem didn't go away simply
      because you changed domain names!\r\n\r\nIt's amazing how much info/proof one
      can get just by using 'internet archives'- also called 'time machines.'  \r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-02-01 06:37:39'
  created: '2005-05-22 23:07:02'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'There is a slight upside to piracy, which is that when people steal your
    font, they''re more likely to use the original font with it''s real name. I''ve
    heard that in the photo-typesetting days, most Helvetica wasn''t Helvetica at
    all, but one of many knock offs. In the hot-metal part of the 20th century, Fred
    Goudy saw his Californian distributed under names like Berkely Oldstyle. Note:
    This may be a bad example, since I''m not certain which, if any, is the knockoff.
    When I google both fonts, they both seem to give Goudy credit. '
  created: '2005-11-11 00:13:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It was one hell of a lot of work to knock off a hot metal face. Today, a
    digital font can be snatched in minutes.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 00:27:18'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>I\u2019ve heard that in the photo-typesetting days, most Helvetica
    wasn\u2019t Helvetica at all, but one of many knock offs.</em>\r\n\r\nThe <em>copying</em>
    or creating subtle look-alikes during the hot metal and cold type (phototype)
    period was particularly prevalent where the \"font\" was mated to proprietary
    typesetting equipment. There was no official LEGAL protection of type designs
    and it became more a matter of ethics regarding piracy.\r\n\r\nYou must remember
    that the business stakes were much higher for font/typesetting manufacturers as
    opposed to current open ended device independent type fonts used today.\r\n\r\nFYI
    -- I can vouch for nearly ninety weight versions/variants of Helvetica when I
    worked for Compugraphic-Agfa (Helios, Helios II, CG Triumvirate)."
  created: '2005-11-11 00:34:06'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: Perhaps Helvetica is a bad example, since it was so pervasive, and copying
    it seems relatively begnign. If it were a face like Zapfino, renaming it really
    robs the artist in a way that is less common in other art forms. In the end, people
    also may tend to associate the most common version of a face as authentic.
  created: '2005-11-11 00:40:45'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>In the end, people also may tend to associate the most common version
    of a face as authentic.</em>\r\n\r\nSometimes we lose perspective on the <em>font
    buying</em> public (the \"people\" who BUY and use type) since most of us (typophiles)
    are so immersed in type design and typography.\r\n\r\nWe know who Morris Fuller
    Benton is and his designs, but believe me, the majority of graphic designers don't
    have a clue, so ANY version of Century or Franklin Gothic is OK in their book.\r\n\r\nHere
    are some recent quotes from <a href=\"http://www.designtalkboard.com/designtalk/index.php?topic=36.0\"
    target=\"new\">Design:Talkboard</a>, one of many forums for budding graphic designers
    (your new type buying market):\r\n\r\n<em>I like frutiger for a body font. Franklin
    gothic for headlines. And I have a real problem stopping myself using gill-sans
    at the moment. \r\n\r\nUnivers is a nice clean serif font. I also like Gill-Sans
    (I'm very traditional). Plantin is an interesting font for sub-heads.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the serif variety, I tend to go with Garamond. Simple, and it's a treat to
    set.\r\n\r\ni'm so traditional. for a really bold heading i usually go with about
    27px georgia (pretty much only if it's black on white...doesn't look right in
    any other colors...). otherwise for body work i'm generally stuck on verdana/helvetica/geneva/etc...
    \r\n\r\nPlaying Identify the font???\r\nYe  Gods, and I thought us programmer
    were geeks!  That totally takes the biscuit! \r\n\r\nI've been using Univers a
    bit recently. It's kind of a relaxed Frutiger... or something \r\n\r\nI like simple,
    clean sans serifs, like Univers (oh my favouraite for years now) Helvetica (and
    neue), Frutiger, Swiss, Simplex, Din. I always seem to end up with Univers somehow.\r\n\r\nOne
    of my favorite fonts is Century Gothic.  It's very clean and it looks professional.
    \ I use it for tons of my designs.  There is another new and cool font that I
    just started to use.  It's Kabel EF.  I used it for a logo design and I think
    it was a good choice.  This is because, just like Century Gothic, it looks clean
    and professional. </em>\r\n\r\nOut of the mouths of babes (infants NOT hotties).\r\nNone
    of these graphic designers seem too up on the current typefaces as viable alternatives."
  created: '2005-11-11 12:48:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Norbert,\r\nMan, is it really that bad out there in young designer land?\r\nPresent
    day design schools can't be that naive.  Maybe today's design teachers are so
    young that they don't even know better.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 12:57:28'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I don't think it all THAT bad, but we should keep in mind that the potential
    type buying market is MUCH larger than it was 10 -- 15 years ago.\r\n\r\nIf you
    do the math, you must sell over <strong>ten times</strong> the amount of a current
    $25 font than when a proprietary font (film/digital) sold for $250! \r\n\r\nBig
    bucks when it's a small market and small bucks when it is a large market."
  created: '2005-11-11 13:25:03'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>We know who Morris Fuller Benton is and his designs, but believe me,
    the majority of graphic designers don\u2019t have a clue, so ANY version of Century
    or Franklin Gothic is OK in their book.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is a big problem\u2026
    every revival of an old design is different. Just look at Garamond (I know, not
    exactly comparable, but easier to use to make a point) or Bodoni. ITC Garamond
    isn't really a Garamond. Neither are many other fonts with \"Garamond\" in their
    name. Since your average designer doesn't know this, he might get the wrong idea
    about what actually makes a font good and legible.\r\n\r\nMany graphic designers
    think that legibility is quite pliable (\"I'm what makes typography legible or
    illegible, not the font's design\u2026\").\r\n\r\nTo confound matters, you have
    the problem of bad interpretation. Bauer Bodoni was probably the most legible
    metal Bodoni book face. But the digital Bauer Bodoni only works in display, despite
    what so many designers think. If they would use their eyes, they would see that
    the digital version just doesn't live up to its forbearer. But the metal's reputation
    is so strong that people refuse to believe that the digital is so different."
  created: '2005-11-11 14:11:01'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "=^D \r\n\r\nBut Dan, some designers do cause the problem \r\n\r\n=^D"
  created: '2005-11-11 17:24:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the metal\u2019s reputation is so strong that people\r\n> refuse to believe
    that the digital is so different.\r\n\r\nThat's because they're still not aware
    of optical scaling.\r\nWe need to fix that ASAP.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-11 17:28:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...still not aware of optical scaling\"\r\n\r\nAnd ink spread on the Bauer
    Bodoni hairlines.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 18:32:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Out of the mouths of babes\r\n\r\nYeah, there's a lot of fogey-design out
    there, by people of all ages.\r\nIronic that when it comes to typefaces, so many
    young geezers' \"modern\" is as retro as their \"retro\".\r\nBut the hot young
    type designers of 10 years ago, now the establishment, are pointing in the same
    direction, ennit? You don't see Mr Hoefler doing too many Fetishes these days,
    or a \"Mohamed luvs ya' from Mr de Groot  (although Mr Barnbrook is still flying
    the flag).\r\n\r\nBTW, who is today's typographic anti-establishment?\r\n\r\nI'm
    philosophical about it -- the present era is a stepping stone between the days
    of deconstruction and a typographically-informed design community. It's not like
    designers are steeped in the classics, but they're getting their feet wet, and
    once that's permeated, many will become more informed and move on to using more
    sophisticated, contemporary reinterpretations of the classics, and serious new
    stuff."
  created: '2005-11-11 18:33:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"BTW, who is today\u2019s typographic anti-establishment?\"\r\n\r\nThe hot
    metal boutique printers of today.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 18:50:48'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>the present era is a stepping stone between the days of deconstruction
    and a typographically-informed design community</em>\r\n\r\nI agree Nick. We are
    caught in between rampant tech development and the \"first-to-market\" mission
    of business giants and entrepreneurial start-ups in many industries. \r\n\r\nMany
    recent product and software developments in production and distribution have truly
    shaken up the way many traditional markets do business -- music, film, transportation,
    cosmetic enhancement, miniturized portable communications, consumer image and
    video capture devices, consumer video/music replication/editing/remix software
    and devices, \"on-demand\" anything, and so on.\r\n\r\nThe production, integration
    and distribution of \"fontware\" is pretty much mated to technology as it has
    been from the beginning of <em>movable type</em>. \r\n\r\nCombine that with the
    new and various ways we are adapting ourselves to reading and writing (I still
    can't effectively type fast enough on a cell phone for text messaging) and it's
    difficult to decide what to design for an ever evolving environment.\r\n\r\nSo
    maybe things will look pretty crappy by our earlier standards until the dust settles
    a bit and concern for the READER becomes a priority again.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-11 19:38:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the hot young type designers of 10 years ago, now the establishment\r\n\r\nI
    don't think most of the \"hot designers\" of the 90s are\r\nstill with us, much
    less the establishment. People like\r\nHoefler were never really \"hot\", not
    in the way I see the\r\nterm being useful, not in the way of a Keedy for example.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, you're right that most type designers\r\nwho did any decon stuff
    do a lot less of it now. I guess it's\r\nthe zeitgeist, with human behavior being
    contagious,\r\nand most people being susceptible to \"fashion\" on some\r\nlevel
    (not necessarily aesthetic).\r\n\r\n> who is today\u2019s typographic anti-establishment?\r\n\r\nI
    would say anybody who persists that\r\nthe mainstream is doing it wrong. I try.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\n> The hot metal boutique printers of today.\r\n\r\nYou mean the guys
    over-impressing over-layered stuff\r\nin day-glo inks? To me that's the crystallization
    of the\r\ncurrent mainstream.\r\n\r\n> concern for the READER becomes a priority
    again.\r\n\r\nA big hug to you from this left-coast Armo.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-12 05:20:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"You mean the guys over-impressing over-layered stuff\r\nin day-glo inks?
    \"\r\n\r\nNo. I mean today's version of the real old school craftsman who make
    a living doing real quality handset invitations.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-12 16:10:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Or better, books.\r\nI agree - it's just that those people are not on anybody's
    radar at all.\r\nTo be anti-establishment you have to be heard.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-12 17:40:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"To be anti-establishment you have to be heard\"\r\n\r\nSo maybe the only
    way those guys would be heard in the media is if they dropped their pants in public
    or something. or got kicked off the island.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-16 14:05:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It is in fact a feature of contemporary mass media that it shuts out dissent.\r\nAnd
    this is integral to the <cite>illusion</cite> that is Freedom of Speech.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-22 23:28:29'
date: '2005-05-17 05:29:12'
title: discussion of piracy on fontleech.com

---
