---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "There seems to consistently be like 20-40 lurkers for every registered user
  at any given moment... What does that mean? How many closet type geeks can there
  be out there?! And/or how many Famous Designers who can't help reading the content
  but don't want to reveal that they do. On other lists (which admittedly however
  do require registration to read at all) the proportion of \"hidden\" users tends
  to be quite small. Wassup?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "Legions of Hrant fans, what else? \r\n\r\nI, too, have been somewhat surprised
    at how many guests there are. People looking for free fonts? It would be interesting
    to be able to break down where the guests lurk. Are most of them in the font identification
    area?"
  created: '2005-05-20 00:14:46'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nI like to keep informed, if possible, of the temperature around
    certain threads. Often as not I have nothing to contribute to various threads,
    though I may be interested in them. \r\n\r\nOther times I have to weigh the time
    I might spend being sucked into lengthy discussions against time I could (\"should\")
    be working. \r\n\r\nThen too, I can't help feeling sometimes my input will be
    considered the canned bleatings of a company hack, regardless of my intention,
    knowledge, or sincerity. So, you could call me a conservative poster. \r\n\r\nRecently
    a posting of mine went into the ether (due to the website upgrade) and I felt
    a little like I had wasted my time. The dialogue is often sparkling, the topics
    often worthy and challenging, but overall I think I feel the need to moderate
    my participation in order to keep other things moving along. I have an easy time
    being distracted anyway. \r\n\r\nThe moderators could consider requiring registration
    in order to read. Not a bad way to encourage participation, or at least transparency.
    It might discourage the \"Anonymous\".\r\n\r\nI would hate to be considered a
    closet type geek. Tell the world!  ;D\r\n\r\nCarl\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-20 00:17:22'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: 'This is sort of off topic but I''d like to see the system display real names
    instead of the login names. The logins feel too impersonal and as someone who
    doesn''t actually know anyone, it would be nice to at least know people''s names
    without clicking on their info. '
  created: '2005-05-20 00:22:56'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Lurkers vs. Posters\r\nThis is not at all surprising, Hrant. The site receives
    3+ million hits per month with almost 6,000 registered users. It would be crazy
    to think that the active posting of several hundred people would account for all
    of that traffic. \r\n\r\nIt doesn't hurt to prod those people to say hello every
    now and then.\r\n\r\n\r\n__\r\nReal names vs. Login names\r\nThis is in the planned
    edits... In the meantime you can always change your login name 'jackson' to your
    full name. (Just remember that you changed it next time you login.)\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-20 01:40:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey Carl. Your reasons for being a \"recreational user\" :-) make sense.
    But I realize now that I guess I don't really know the difference between a registered
    user and a \"guest\"... I thought a guest is somebody who has never registered,
    but that can't be it, since you've been registered for almost two years. So I
    guess a guest is anybody who simply hasn't logged in - and maybe that depends
    on the given browser (and browser settings), as well as on the habits of the individual.
    Like on my end (Firefox on Win-XP) I have to manually log out, otherwise I'm transparently
    logged in whenever I visit the site (even after a cold boot*). So I guess those
    numbers don't mean much - they certainly don't indicate of how many of the lurkers
    are registered.\r\n\r\n* Do people still use that term?  :-/\r\n\r\n> The moderators
    could consider requiring registration in order to read.\r\n\r\nI think it's hard
    to predict if that would help or hinder things. I have a feeling though that people
    who would balk at logging in to read are not of much use to Typophile anyway.\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019d like to see the system display real names instead of the login names.\r\n\r\nDitto.\r\nAnd
    Joe, I think a full name is generally too verbose to serve well as a login name;
    people would have to take an extra step to over-ride something that's intuitive
    (a terse login name).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-20 03:48:48'
- author:
    name: Brian_
    picture: 110618
  body: "If anyone's like me, they type about three paragraphs, preview it, delete
    everything, and go to bed. This post almost didn't even make it.\r\n:)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-20 05:34:11'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "<cite>If anyone\u2019s like me, they type about three paragraphs, preview
    it, delete everything, and go to bed. This post almost didn\u2019t even make it.</cite>\r\n\r\nsame
    here.\r\n\r\n\r\nr.k\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-20 14:50:35'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I am not a type designer. I often lurk on this board because it is one of
    the few I've found that concentrates on design, not technology. I believe that
    my philosophy is on display every time I create something so I am always interested
    in others point of view regarding design, and more importantly, life. Because
    I'm not a type designer I don't have anything to say in a lot of threads but that
    doesn't mean I don't learn from them\u2026\r\nFor example, I recently was reading
    the threads on Blackletter and it's condemnation due to the connection to a certain
    period of German history. There was a comment about how the Nazis made everything
    in their society into an ideological symbol, including fonts. It started me thinking
    about Political Correctness (here in California it's abundant) and the similarity
    between the two ways of thought. We have a \"feminist\" neighbor who doesn't cook.
    Unfortunately she needs to turn that into a political statement. She doesn't clean
    house or garden she \"does all the interior and exterior work\". She's basically
    a frustrated housewife who has become an idealogue as a defense mechanism. So
    this thread helped me clarify my philosophy about life and therefore refine my
    design sense\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-05-20 15:47:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I do the dishes. Unfortunately that still doesn't make me brave enough to
    wear high heels. :-)  Seriously: yes, it's ALL related, isn't it.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I just did some quick tests, and discovered that:\r\n1) When you browse the site
    as a guest, you can't: post; send instant messages; look at member profiles. Makes
    sense.\r\n2) When you browse with one browser that's logged in to the site, and
    another one that isn't, the latter one still thinks you're logged in even after
    you QUIT the other browser (without manually logging out). Is that normal? It
    means that I for one am ALWAYS shown as logged on*... but clearly the list of
    online users shrinks and grows. Does it depend on the browser? Or are many users
    manually logging off all the time? The only reason for that I can think of is
    if one's boss is also a Typophiler**... But I doubt we have tons of such users
    - except for Dyana of course!  :-)\r\n\r\n* Unless a reboot (or a connection loss)
    logs me off?\r\n\r\n** Typophiliac?\r\n\r\nAlso: What are some reasons not to
    enforce logging-in to READ as well. Psychological, mechanical, moral? I think
    it's not far-fetched, because Typophile has as strong a rep as it could ever have.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-20 19:59:39'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "i don't like the idea of having to log in to read typophile content such
    as forums and the wiki. i think these should be areas of information that is freely
    avaiable to the public. one drawback i see of having to register to surf around
    typophile is that casual surfers won't be able to see what it's all about. i stumbled
    across this site a couple of times before i started really delving into it to
    find what a great resource it is. i think registration to do this kind of exploring
    on the sight may have prevented me from becoming a [[typophiloholic]]* (and that
    woulda been just sad).\r\n\r\n* I added a link to the wiki because <em>someone
    else</em> saw fit to put this term in the [[TypoWiki]]."
  created: '2005-05-20 21:40:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul, makes sense.\r\n\r\nWhat about this idea: Allow registerless reading
    for the first month only (using a cookie). That way you give people a chance to
    get hooked, but you encourage them to \"come out\" once they've decided to stick
    around.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-20 22:06:19'
- author:
    name: chadbrewer
  body: "I'm not sure about the browser - I've got Firefox on OSX and I'm always logged
    on (though I don't know if my name is shown when I'm not actually 'on' the website).
    \r\n\r\nI think the main reason some ppl  seem to come and go, and others seem
    to always be around is the cookies. I never clean out my cookies so I never have
    to log back in .  While others who clean out their computers cache/cookies etc
    (whether they have something to hide or are just hygenic) must log back in. \r\n\r\nAs
    for why guests and newbies don't talk as much: I assume some of is because a lot
    of y'all seem to know each other - and ppl don't want to butt in. Also, many of
    you frequent posters know your stuff. I know more about typography and design
    than joe blow, but I'm still a student (literaly and figurativly). So others in
    my shoes may feel indimidated by that, and keep quite and read. \r\n\r\nBut the
    fact is, it's good to hear from all sorts of people, with varying levels of knowledge
    and experience.  So don't be shy - let us know what y'all are thinking!\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-20 22:32:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> others who clean out their computers cache/cookies etc (whether\r\n> they
    have something to hide or are just hygenic) must log back in.\r\n\r\nOh, or have
    their browser set to do clean-up when\r\nthey quit; that makes sense. But it's
    still quite\r\nstrange that exiting the browser doesn't log you\r\nout though...\r\n\r\nThe
    Eternal Student,\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-20 22:44:59'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "hhp -\r\nI tried wearing high heels during my \"rock n roll\" days. It was
    very unpleasant, not to mention dangerous. Stick to the dishes, they'll do you
    no wrong. Which reminds me of a great billboard prank I once saw in San Francisco.
    On a KFC sign someone had crossed out the tag line and painted \"You done that
    chicken wrong\".\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-05-21 01:03:23'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I appear to be here all the time because I almost never log out. (For the
    last few hours I was out for dinner and a movie.) I could log out but it's less
    bother not to and there doesn't seem to be much point to it. It was the same with
    the old Typophile, but less obvious since "who's online" wasn't spelled out at
    the bottom of every page like it is now. What exactly does one gain by logging
    out, other than preventing people from trying to IM you?
  created: '2005-05-21 04:22:11'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "1) If you close your browser window or quit your browser you should automatically
    be logged out. (If you have cookies set it will automatically log you back in.)\r\n\r\n2)
    If someone logs out they show up as a guest. Or if they hit the site and are not
    logged in, they're shown as a guest until they log in.\r\n\r\n3) The \"Who's Online\"
    info updates every 15 minutes, so it is regularly updating, but it is not totally
    \"real time\" like you would expect from AOL Instant messenger or iChat."
  created: '2005-05-21 04:48:51'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 4) Users who are neither logged in, nor have an account can read threads and
    all the wiki content. They just can't post or edit wiki entries.
  created: '2005-05-21 04:52:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The \u201CWho\u2019s Online\u201D info updates every 15 minutes\r\n\r\nOK,
    now your #1 makes sense.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-21 07:58:47'
- author:
    name: mica
    picture: 110163
  body: Maybe all the guests are NYT reporters, just waiting to find that next big
    typography story!
  created: '2005-05-21 08:50:37'
- author:
    name: Wouter Spaak
    picture: 110641
  body: "I have just recently registered after a lengthy lurking period, but that
    was mostly because I didn't know you could register without going for a payed
    membership...\r\n\r\nAlso, the reason that perhaps this forum attracts more lurkers
    than people actively engaging in the conversations is because most of what goes
    on in here is very type-specific and very \"professional\"-sounding, if you know
    what I mean. I myself have never enjoyed an education in typography or design,
    and what I do, I do for fun. For me, design is a hobby-turned-profession, and
    I make a decent buck out of it, but all that type theory mumbo jumbo is very interesting
    but way over my head.\r\n\r\nI don't know about other lurkers but that was my
    main reason for not posting -- Typophile is a tough crowd, though a very pleasant
    one. It takes guts to let one's designs be scrutinized by people who are way out
    of one's league.\r\n\r\nWell, it's either that, or the \"Register\"-link is so
    small no one can find it. ;)"
  created: '2005-05-21 10:38:05'
- author:
    name: joffre
    picture: 110341
  body: "I'm curious as to why \"guests online\" are considered \"lurkers\". If I
    were to watch a cooking show on PBS, I would see chef creating a dish, explaining
    his or hers recipe, and in some cases share the dish with a live audience who
    will mostly agree that it looks and taste good. That is a form of communication
    on an electronic network. If I watch that am I considered a \"lurkers\" or a viewers
    who want to be intellectually informed on the art of cookin?\r\nJust curious. "
  created: '2005-05-22 07:41:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: as for all analogies... this one only goes so far. the problem with it is
    that [[Typophile]] has been created (correct me if i'm wrong) with the intent
    of "Typographic Collaboration," as it reads across the top of your browser when
    you load the home page. On the opposite end of the collaborative spectrum, if
    you watch Emeril, there's very little collaboration going on.. maybe between him
    and one other chef. Let's call these participants. The rest of the audience doesn't
    contribute much or at all (especially those out in TV-land), so let's call them
    spectators. I think the assumption behind the concern over the ratio between participants
    to spectators (whew! could i have used any more prepositions?) is that the discussion
    could be so much more interesting and enlightening if we heard more perspectives
    and opinions from people who are obviouly interested in issues typographic. Spectators
    on typophile most likely view it as a wonderful resource (or why would they be
    "lurking" here). What they may not realize is that the Typophile experience becomes
    even more useful and personal when you ask a question or share a point of view
    in a discussion, prompting more discussion and thought-provoking experiences for
    <em>everyone</em> that is reading along.
  created: '2005-05-22 15:25:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joffre, since the people on TV can't hear you, you can be excused for not
    trying to communicate with them. You can also be excused for not talking to peers
    (Typophile), but it's  much harder to justify. Or: People who talk to their TVs
    are considered quirky, but people who discuss things with other people are not.
    Or: Not talking to your TV is not much of a missed opportunity, but only lurking
    on Typophile generally is.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-22 18:40:51'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: Lurking is a missed opportunity to make a fool of oneself.
  created: '2005-05-22 19:20:49'
- author:
    name: joffre
    picture: 110341
  body: "Hrant, first, people on TV can hear you. If it's part of their format.\r\n\r\nI
    didn't ask to be excused from talking to the Typophile forum. I have responded
    in the past and will do so in the future if it is relevant.\r\n\r\nI was questioning
    the word, \"lurking\". If you have 500 to 600 viewers online at one time you have
    an audience who are interested in the craft of designing type or typography in
    general and but don't have the knowledge or fortitude to respond, so why are they
    called lurkers.\r\n\r\nMost of the viewers are just concerned about what's going
    on and want to separate the wheat from the chaff. No need to label them in a negative
    way or exclude them."
  created: '2005-05-22 22:25:36'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "I don't think Hrant meant \"lurker\" in such a bad way. At least, I didn't
    take it that way. \r\n\r\nBut maybe I'm wrong."
  created: '2005-05-22 22:36:33'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: ">Allow registerless reading for the first month only (using a cookie).\r\n\r\nI'd
    confirm with paul d hunts first statement in general, and I'd like to add that
    contributing something here does not only mean to overcome the knowledge-barrier
    sometimes, but, for non-native english speakers, the language-barrier as well.
    At least I wasn't that brave to post something the very second I found this wonderful
    site, it took quite a while, and more than just one month, to get acquainted,
    and I appreciated the opportunity of just reading a lot here very much. So, from
    my point of view, I'd think that limiting the possible reading time will not encourage
    people to post more."
  created: '2005-05-22 23:14:15'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nI don't quite understand your question. On an given list there
    are going to be a large proportion of lurkers compared to regular posters. I belong
    to a lot of lists, on a list or two I am very proactive about postings, others
    occasionally, many never, most of them I don't even lurk just maintain a membership.
    As you know, I also moderate a list. And YOU are a lurker there!!! \r\n\r\nWhat
    I suppose is odd here, is that the discrepancy is clearly shown. But I'm not sure
    what the benefit of that is.\r\n\r\nJust be thankful (in regard to your own subject
    interests) for those who are willing to share and contribute rather than just
    take, or worse, could care less.\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-05-23 01:50:31'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "<strong>So in conclusion, the numbers of users vs guests (lurkers) are such
    possibly because:</strong>\r\n\r\n1) not everyone logs in\r\n2) not everyone logs
    out\r\n3) the registration is not clearly free, or the link is not large enough\r\n4)
    casual viewing and reading does not require membership\r\n\r\n<strong>also, people
    don't post more because:</strong>\r\n1) everyone here knows each other already\r\n2)
    newbies don't feel that they can add to what the big guns have said already\r\n3)
    these topics are fascinatingly of interest worldwide, therefore language can be
    an issue to many people\r\n4) some write replies to posts, but end up deleting
    them rather than submitting them\r\n\r\n<strong>finally</strong>\r\n1) lurkers
    possibly sounds more negative than intended... or maybe not\r\n2) the \"who's
    online stats\" (currently 11 users and 533 guests) is unnecessary but interesting\r\n3)
    even unregistered viewers are good for the community, and type in general, one
    day they may begin contributing as well\r\n4) Typophile forums are not a cooking
    show\r\n5) men should not wear high heels but should do dishes\r\n6) all the guests
    might be NYT reporters\r\n7) it is good to hear from everyone with different levels
    of experience\r\n8) the term \"cold boot\" hasn't been used for years*\r\n\r\n\r\nBy
    now this topic is seeming fairly exhausted. To contribute my two cents \u2014
    as someone with very little experience \u2014\_I would bet that the biggest factors
    to the \"users to guests\" ratios are most guests are casual viewers, language
    is somewhat of a barrier, and they don't feel they have the experience or insight
    to make a worthy contribution.\r\n\r\nI started hanging out at Typophile a year
    and a half ago, but didn't register for 3 or 4 months. After that I don't think
    I posted for another 6 or 9 months. I have learned so much from here and all these
    discussions have inspired me and changed the course of my life. I was interested
    in typography and type design before Typophile, but it was here that added the
    gasoline to the fire... I can actually credit/blame these forums for getting me
    to change my career and state I live in (possibly the country, in not so distant
    future). \r\n\r\nHowever, one of the most exceptional things I have gotten from
    Typophile is the realization of how incredibly stupid, ignorant is probably more
    appropriate, I am regarding type design. It is such an immense field with it's
    history, technology, science, etc. As with any field, the key players in the type
    world are geniuses with so much knowledge and experience behind them. Several
    of those people frequent Typophile, so while that is incredible for discussion
    and learning, it is intimidating to jump in and find something to add yourself.
    \r\n\r\nThis is one other reason I don't post often: personally, I don't edit
    well, I say too much at times... long winded... better listener than speaker.\r\n\r\nHail
    Typophile.\r\n\r\n\r\nr.k\r\n\r\n* for mac users at least"
  created: '2005-05-23 06:22:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Lurker is not the same thing as guest. Guest is a \"technical\" term - somebody
    who is visiting the site but is not logged in. A lurker is somebody who doesn't
    post often enough to feel like part of the community.\r\n\r\nI think it can be
    OK to be a lurker, but rarely over a very long period. I'm sure there are people
    who are personally most in harmony with Typophile when they post only on rare
    occasions; but there are also people who simply don't want it known that they're
    listening. My hunch is that most people fall sort of in the middle: they <strong>want</strong>
    to be a bigger part of the community, but are unsure how best to go about it,
    or if it's worth the risk/time/effort.\r\n\r\nBasically, my main point in this
    thread is simply that a ratio of 1 user to ~30 guests seems unhealthy. HOWEVER,
    it does seem that a chunk of those guests are actually registered, they're simply
    not logged in much of the time. Note for example that Jared said there have been
    about 6 thousand Typophile registrations...\r\n\r\nSo:\r\n<strong>It would be
    interesting to learn what proportion of visitors are registered.</strong>\r\n\r\n>
    it took quite a while, and more than just one month, to get acquainted\r\n\r\nBut
    after a month* you knew you wanted to stick around, right? I mean you wanted to
    read the content bad enough that you'd register. This is not the same thing as
    being ready/willing to make a post, which can take much longer.\r\n\r\n* Or maybe
    two, or three; a survey could help pin that down.\r\n\r\n> I also moderate a list.
    And YOU are a lurker there!!!\r\n\r\nNo, unfortunately I simply haven't had the
    time to read. So I'm not actually lurking, because I'm not paying attention at
    all. But I don't unsubscribe, because: I <strong>wish</strong> I could be reading
    it; and one day maybe I can go back and skim everything.\r\n\r\nI personally can't
    lurk very well; even in an environment where I know very little, there's one very
    good reason to \"be there\": asking questions. And I don't feel intimidated by
    people who scoff at my questions, because people who don't nurture learners are
    beneath me in the big picture.\r\n\r\n> the registration is not clearly free\r\n\r\nI
    think correcting this is important.\r\n\r\n> everyone here knows each other already\r\n\r\nThis
    seems far-fetched.\r\n\r\n> some write replies to posts, but end up deleting them
    rather than submitting them\r\n\r\nThis is quite strange to me (on the other hand,
    maybe <strong>I'm</strong> strange). I actually do that myself but very rarely,
    and usually because of \"tactical\" issues.\r\n\r\n> men should not wear high
    heels but should do dishes\r\n\r\nWell, maybe just not at the same time.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 07:50:25'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nI see you are back. I've never wondered about this as much as
    I wonder what type-designers, typographers, graphic designers do on the weekends,
    since they rarely participate on any of the lists from around noon on Friday until
    Monday morning. Now revealed by Typophile's little \"eye\" on you.\r\n\r\nMore
    importantly, do you think you can catch up to Tiffany?\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-05-23 08:11:51'
- author:
    name: adiazpaz
  body: I lurk more than I post.
  created: '2005-05-23 12:42:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sometimes I start to write something and think I post it, but for some reason
    it doesn't get posted. And yet I think it has been.\r\n\r\nBut the worst thing
    like this is when you're working on a font intensely, and you have a dream where
    you're kerning it, and you wake up and can't remember what you did for real and
    what was done in the dream.\r\n "
  created: '2005-05-23 15:14:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I am back, but you can still never go home.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I just passed
    Tiffany over the weekend! Even though it was quite a busy weekend for me: a museum,
    a concert, a birthday and a beach trip. But I guess Tiffany's was even busier!\r\n\r\nNick,
    one time I was working on a font while dozing off, forcing myself to push those
    beziers until I fell asleep in the chair. I managed to crawl to bed, after hitting
    Save and shutting off. The next morning I woke up to check my work, and there
    were some <strong>quite</strong> interesting curves and lines in the font! Maybe
    the fact that I was reading Baudelaire at the time motivated that stunt...  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 16:26:41'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I can't see any reason why just reading without registering is bad. The more
    readers Typophile gets, the more likely the number of registered users and active
    members it will probably get.\r\n\r\nAs has been mentioned above, many, many people
    don't feel comfortable about posting because of the language barrier. During TYPO
    Berlin, several German designers remarked to me about how much they enjoy reading
    Typophile, but don't feel comfortable enough trying to write in English. I told
    them to just post in German, there are enough \"lurkers\" who could read it as
    is or translate it for a wider audience.\r\n\r\nThe same could be said for any
    language.\r\n\r\nI think that it might be good if Typophile had a FAQ and registration
    in more than one language <strong>(Joe and Jared, this is an offcial suggestion!!!)</strong>.
    How hard would it be to build a few pages in German, French, and Spanish (not
    to mention Russian or Chinese!)? I think that the site would be better for it.
    I'd be happy to translate anything you'd need into German, and I'm sure that enough
    other users would step forward, too.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-05-23 16:43:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I have to say I don't think lurkers are bad, nor are guests. I do think more
    people shouldn't be afraid to post, and I hope that I'm not one of the reasons
    people don't post. When I was a teacher I always encouraged everyone to voice
    there opinion. The more conversation that was generated usually meant the more
    useful the discussion became to everyone. However, the shy students had to be
    coaxed, slowly. \r\n\r\nFor the lurkers and guests. There isn't one person who
    posts on typophile that knows everything about one thing or many things. Please
    contribute to the conversation.\r\n\r\nThank goodness Hrant passed me. Forrest
    and Yves will pass me soon as well. In fact, I encourage everyone to post more
    and push me clean off the list. :^)"
  created: '2005-05-23 17:11:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wait, lurkers and guests are certainly not \"bad\"!\r\n\r\n> When I was a
    teacher I always encouraged everyone to voice there opinion.\r\n\r\nExactly. Besides
    these one-off encouragements that we try to provide, maybe a nudge to get more
    people to register (after a certain period of observation) will help them clear
    a psychological hurdle?\r\n\r\nA community can only serve its individuals if they
    in turn keep the community vibrant. Frankly, somebody who's so adamant about never
    taking up a free registration can go somewhere else for a parasitic meal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 17:22:29'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Speaking for myself, as a person just getting started with type design (this
    is also my first post) it can be a little intimidating seeing professionals that
    you admire posting on a website. You could say something that could get you in
    a lot of trouble for, like mentioning a font you don't like with the designer
    two posts above yours. :)\r\n\r\nTerry Biddle"
  created: '2005-05-23 18:37:01'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: "Diffidence, in this context, seems to me to be healthy. There's no point
    in posting unless you have something to ask or something to say which (1) you
    think might interest other people and (2) hasn't already been said. The idea that
    you must post even if you know nothing just because you happen to have an opinion,
    even if it is the same opinion as a lot of other people, does not seem to me to
    make for a conversation or a community, but a sort of shrieking nest of parrots.\r\n\r\nOn
    the whole, we are lucky. There is not too much psittacine shrieking, but most
    threads produce some discussion. I would certainly encourage everyone who wants
    to do so to participate actively, but I would trust people's judgment.\r\n\r\nBesides,
    on usenet (which the forums, in effect, are) it has always been thought good practice
    to lurk for a fair while, in order to avoid asking silly questions, spot the trolls
    (happily absent here), avoid inadvertently starting a flame war ... etc. That's
    still good sense.\r\n\r\nNow, as a new member, I've read somewhere about this
    thing called a bouma, which is obviously rubbish anyway, but what I really want
    to know is: where can I get a great free ;-) version of some font I saw called
    Wittman or something that will go great with Arial and Comic Sans for this book
    I'm about to publish called \"Fraktur: The Nazi Type\" ... \r\n\r\nLurking has
    its point."
  created: '2005-05-23 19:08:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Now, as a new member, I\u2019ve read somewhere about this thing called
    a bouma, which is obviously rubbish anyway, but what I really want to know is:
    where can I get a great free ;-) version of some font I saw called Wittman or
    something that will go great with Arial and Comic Sans for this book I\u2019m
    about to publish called \u201CFraktur: The Nazi Type\u201D \u2026\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!
    That is hysterical :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-05-23 19:23:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nBut please note: I never said Thou Must Post. To me this is more
    about gradually getting more people to feel more comfortable to post. Some people
    don't need that sort of help, and all they'd give up* is: a minute of their time
    to register, and some seconds now and again to log in; and the covertness of their
    presence. While some other people do need some coaxing, and they'll thank us for
    it (a good example being people who don't post because of language issues).\r\n\r\n*
    I mean if we implemented a time limitation on guest status.\r\n\r\nSeeing the
    pronounced disproportion of logged-on people versus \"guests\", I wonder:\r\n1)
    What proportion of the guests are registered, but simply not logged in at a given
    moment.\r\n2) If this community (and hence its members) would benefit from a more
    \"pushy\" encouragement (but only to register/log-in, certainly not to post).\r\n3)
    If anybody cares about the only negative (?) side effect of the extra pushiness:
    losing the attention of people who don't want us to know they're reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 19:36:51'
- author:
    name: joffre
    picture: 110341
  body: "\"A community can only serve its individuals if they in turn keep the community
    vibrant. \"Frankly, somebody who\u2019s so adamant about never taking up a free
    registration can go somewhere else for a parasitic meal.\"\r\n\r\nI'm sorry. Do
    you not enjoy sharing your knowledge of type design or do you have another agenda.\r\nWhen
    I originally responded to lurking, I was following up on a question posed to me
    by my young grandson who asked me how he could learn more about type design. He
    questioned me about the word \"lurking\" and its definition so I presented the
    question to the forum.\r\n\r\nWhat parasitic meal do you recommend? "
  created: '2005-05-23 20:11:49'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "<cite>2) If this community (and hence its members) would benefit from a more
    \u201Cpushy\u201D encouragement (but only to register/log-in, certainly not to
    post).\r\n3) If anybody cares about the only negative (?) side effect of the extra
    pushiness: losing the attention of people who don\u2019t want us to know they\u2019re
    reading.</cite>\r\n\r\npersonally, I vote for less government / pushiness / big
    brother - what have you\r\n\r\n...not less than there is now per se, I just don't
    see the benefit in being more forceful to register and log on. \r\n\r\nHrant,
    I now understand your standpoint on posting/not posting, but I still fail to see
    why being logged on (visible) is so important and how it is bad to be (invisible).
    Yes, it is good to help people \"feel more comfortable to post,\" but like you
    also said, registering only takes a few minutes and a few extra seconds to log
    on... therefor, if some guest wants to become an active part of the group, they
    can very simply and quickly. Forcing them to be registered from the beginning
    isn't going to encourage them to post. Allowing someone to hang out here, learn,
    and not be pressured is the easiest way for them to open up. \r\n\r\n\r\nr.k"
  created: '2005-05-23 20:15:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joffre, not only are you registered, but you're making posts. So you're two
    degrees away from being parasitic; or actually three, considering that most people
    who are not registered (nevermind all the registered one who are simply not logged
    in) are not in fact peeping toms.\r\n\r\n> I still fail to see why being logged
    on (visible) is\r\n> so important and how it is bad to be (invisible).\r\n\r\nThe
    latter is not important at all - trust me, I'm not into punishing people. But
    I also don't care to help them keep peeping; they're collateral: if they fall
    out basically as a result of not wanting to be seen, tough.\r\n\r\nThe former
    however does have importance. Every little thing, like actually carrying out the
    action of registering, having your name show up at the bottom of pages, etc. creates
    a feeling of belonging. And you take better care of something that you belong
    to (and belongs to you), and vice versa.\r\n\r\n> Forcing them to be registered
    from the beginning\r\n> isn\u2019t going to encourage them to post. \r\n\r\nNot
    the beginning. The middle.\r\n\r\nAnd my point above is that becoming registered
    does indeed increase the chances you'll post. Not everybody, but some people.
    And nobody -except the peeping toms- loses.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 20:56:15'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: Hrant, you see a problem where there is none.
  created: '2005-05-23 21:40:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, the story of my life!  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 21:41:10'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "Trying some, personal, definition: \"Lurking\" does not necessarily mean
    not wanting to be seen. It can mean, e.g., to simply get a short glimpse of the
    discussions going on here, which is nice and fast and can be accomplished in a
    few minutes (and, when getting hooked, which is very likely to happen, for lots
    of more time). \r\n\r\n\"Lurking\" here, for me, is like reading a book (where,
    at least until now, I don't have to log in), but with extended possibilities,
    which means I can participate in a discussion directly, if I wish, which is great,
    takes considerably more time (writing, consulting the dictionary now and then,
    sometimes rewriting) and if I have that much time at the given moment to do this,
    I'd log in. \r\n\r\nGenerally, I can't see what could be negative about giving
    people lots of time for just reading and happily broadening one's knowledge which
    might lead to, hopefully, better thought-out postings? Posting, I think, is a
    question of temper. Some people join in after 2 seconds, some others after 2 years
    of \"lurking\" to contribute something interesting. So \"the middle\" can be very
    different for different people. Seeing the own name at the bottom of pages, etc.
    doesn't necessarily prevent people from telling rubbish as can be seen in lots
    of other forums. "
  created: '2005-05-23 21:44:33'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: hrant, my take on visitors (lurkers) is much like my opinion of digital cameras.
    Because you don't need film in a digital camera, more people are taking photos
    and some percentage of them will get more involved in photography and maybe even
    become professionals. Visitors might learn enough to get their interest piqued
    and become a registered member and a few might even become type designers. I look
    at this site as inclusive not exclusive.
  created: '2005-05-23 21:49:29'
- author:
    name: joffre
    picture: 110341
  body: "Hrant, \r\nThank you for acknowledge that I'm two degrees from being a parasite.
    I appreciate your opinion.\r\n \r\n\"The latter is not important at all - trust
    me, I\u2019m not into punishing people. But I also don\u2019t care to help them
    keep peeping; they\u2019re collateral: if they fall out basically as a result
    of not wanting to be seen, tough.\"\r\n\r\nIf the message is that students of
    any age who are interested in type design, they can assume by being an online
    guest that they are \"lurkers\" or \"peeping toms\". Should we not reconsider
    the use of the selected terminology and availability for the next generation.
    Or are they fourth degree parasites.\r\n\r\nWhat parasite meal do you recommend? "
  created: '2005-05-23 21:57:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Tina, Dan, good points.\r\n\r\nJoffre, if you're walking along and hear an
    interesting conversation, and you pause to listen for a minute, you're not a lurker.
    But if the people having the conversation notice your interest and urge you to
    join them, but instead you position yourself behind a bush and camp out with a
    tape recorder, there's a problem.\r\n\r\n> What parasite meal do you recommend?\r\n\r\nComp.fonts,
    I guess.\r\nUnless the Health Department already closed it down.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 22:18:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"What parasite meal do you recommend?\"\r\n\r\nWhy alphabet soup of course
    :-)\r\n\r\nWelcome to Typophile Joffre.  I hope you and your grandson will stay
    with us, either as guests or registered.  I would be curious to know what got
    your grandson interested in typography?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-05-23 22:26:52'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "<cite>I would be curious to know what got your grandson interested in typography?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy
    alphabet soup of course :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nr.k"
  created: '2005-05-23 22:52:43'
- author:
    name: joffre
    picture: 110341
  body: ">if you\u2019re walking along and hear an interesting conversation, and you
    pause to listen for a minute, you\u2019re not a lurker. But if the people having
    the conversation notice your interest and urge you to join them, but instead you
    position yourself behind a bush and camp out with a tape recorder, there\u2019s
    a problem.\r\n\r\nHrant,\r\nI will forward your comments to my grandson. Thank
    you for your insight and your opinion regarding how learn more about the art of
    type design and the foundation of communication. "
  created: '2005-05-23 23:32:15'
- author:
    name: joffre
    picture: 110341
  body: "rkeller\r\nI've been designing type for thirty-five years. To alot of young
    kids they have no idea what the art is."
  created: '2005-05-23 23:48:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Touche RK :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-05-24 02:13:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I realized that Tina's points about lurking apply to how I read the ATypI
    list. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-24 04:52:27'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "From a lurker:\r\n\r\nI find typophile.com is a useful site for information
    about specialist topics in type design. For example, I found some sensible answers
    about whether lining numerals should be the same width in regular and bold (yes,
    they should). As I am a complete amateur in type design, and have little contact
    with people in type-related businesses, reading comments from experienced designers
    helps fill a gap.\r\n\r\nI design typefaces for my own use and enjoyment. I find
    it is a very satisfying hobby, though it can be rather too absorbing. One design
    is a monospaced bitmap at 24 pixels, for use on my X console when using a high
    resolution. The current project is a humanist sans-serif designed for general
    text; e.g. reports, parts lists, and other documents I produce as an engineer.
    I currently use a sensible serif face for this, e.g. Century Schoolbook.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    there are alot of other font-tweakers out there who visit these forums just out
    of interest, but do not feel the need to post."
  created: '2005-05-24 14:56:51'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "I could fill so many books with long, insightful, passionate emails and discussion
    posts I wrote, edited, slept on, and ended up deciding not to send. More than
    one of them were flames at Hrant. \r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nBefore you accept Hrant's
    characterization of lurkers as anything near authoritative, try to figure out
    how many people consider him an authority on anything.\r\n\r\nIt has never been
    easier, more fun or more rewarding to learn about typography and type design."
  created: '2005-05-24 16:34:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "wrong thread, sorry :-/ \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-05-24 17:35:55'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: was that comment meant for <a href="http://typophile.com/node/12634">another
    thread</a>, chris?
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: "Do-o-o-h!\r\n\r\nYes Paul, I kinda, heh, heh, blew it :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
    created: '2005-05-24 18:37:57'
  created: '2005-05-24 17:42:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, along with the passionate posts you ended up not sending, you used
    to actually make passionate posts too. It's sad -clearly a loss to Typophile-
    that these days you only unlurk to strike people -and Typophile- down. Quite perplexingly,
    I think much of that is due to your political views (mostly related to this Iraq
    war) being strongly and publically rejected by most of your design colleagues,
    causing you to feel unwelcome.* To be fair though, it's certainly hard to keep
    a cool, objective head in such an environment. But please note that I think I'm
    managing with William, so I hope eventually you'll start unlurking to contribute
    quality, not flames.\r\n\r\n* I hope you're not waiting for WMDs to suddenly show
    up, or for the US military-industrial complex to suddenly become benign...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-24 17:54:21'
- author:
    name: marnie
    picture: 109483
  body: "Just thought I would say hello. Long time reader, first time poster :)\r\n\r\nMarnie"
  created: '2005-05-24 18:53:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Welcome Marnie.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-05-24 18:59:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hi Marnie!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-24 19:06:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: we're just glad to know that there are more of us that share the affliction
    of [[typophilism]].
  created: '2005-05-24 19:13:14'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "<em> It\u2019s sad -clearly a loss to Typophile- that these days you only
    unlurk to strike people -and Typophile- down.</em>\r\n\r\nThe only \"people\"
    is you, Hrant, and it's always in response to you slagging off someone else. You
    began this whole thread. You called lurkers \"parasitic.\" You insult Emigre regularly.
    I can count dozens of type designers who won't go near this place because of you
    and Bill, largely. (And probably more and more because of me too, the more I get
    embroiled in this.) Typophile is a great resource when the threads don't get derailed
    by insults. So yes, when I catch you insulting someone, I might just feel like
    delurking and firing back. The hostility was here before I got here. This is my
    way of answering it.\r\n\r\nCase in point: you have more interest in my politics
    than anyone else. You're the only one who ever brings it up, always to discredit
    me, and you don't even know half of my politics to begin with. You really don't
    know anything about me, but that's never stopped you from constructing a caricature
    to argue with. Over and over.\r\n\r\nI quite like Typophile and read it regularly.
    I would post more if I weren't so busy with work. I would encourage lurkers to
    lurk all they want and absorb all they can, and post when they do have something
    to say. Certainly don't feel uncomfortable lurking. Hell, take pleasure in it..."
  created: '2005-05-24 19:13:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The only \u201Cpeople\u201D is you, Hrant\r\n\r\nBut that's mainly because
    I spearhead the rejection of your politics. Trust me, I'm not the only person
    who thinks you no longer use Typophile properly. If you don't realize that your
    posts to this thread (and really the bulk of your posts in the past two years
    or so), mostly serve to make <strong>you</strong> look bad, then you really need
    to be paying more attention, instead of digging a deeper trench.\r\n\r\n> You
    called lurkers \u201Cparasitic.\u201D\r\n\r\nOnly the stalkers.\r\nNot the people
    who simply don't feel up to participating.\r\nThose (like Marnie until now) I'd
    like to encourage to post.\r\n\r\n> You insult Emigre regularly.\r\n\r\n1) This
    is false. Back when they were persecuting me, I was not gentle with them. But
    since 2002 I've been as nice as is reasonable. When I note their -thankfully past-
    vigilantism, or when I point out that Mrs Eaves is poorly spaced -generally adding
    that its black forms are however very nice- that's not insulting, that's constructive
    criticism.\r\n2) What does that have to do with anything? Is Emigre a sacrosanct
    religion?\r\n\r\n> I can count dozens of type designers who won\u2019t go near
    this place because of you and Bill\r\n\r\nAh, the classic escapism. Just see what
    happened to Typo-L when I left for the sole purpose of proving I was not the problem
    (nor the solution). The problem is not having a spine, and blaming a scapegoat
    for your own weakness.\r\n\r\n> This is my way of answering it.\r\n\r\nYou should
    instead spend more energy making useful posts.\r\nIgnore me freely, please. But
    ignore your own reality at your own risk.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-24 20:43:36'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "<em>You should instead spend more energy making useful posts.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    you should follow your own advice!"
  created: '2005-05-24 20:53:59'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: this thread gave me that well-needed nudge to dig up the email i received
    at the beginning of the month and log on with my new password. how lazy can you
    get? i guess i'm one of those lurker/members...thanks for dragging me back onto
    the dancefloor!
  created: '2005-05-25 00:05:06'
- author:
    name: mica
    picture: 110163
  body: I was looking around the Typowiki over the weekend, and noticed that the "Who's
    Online" appears on the wiki as well (not sure if this has always been the case).
    I reckon that with this new resource, more web searches find their way to Typophile
    directly to the wiki, and possibly these guests haven't yet made it over to the
    forums.
  created: '2005-06-06 19:04:47'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "For some reason I decided to read this topic and I'm actually sorry I did.\r\n\r\nI've
    been a member for only 5 days and found that the community is generally helpful,
    open to share ideas, opions, recipes, bad puns, &c.\r\nOf the several key forums
    devoted to typography, Typophile's seems to be the most active, topics and comments
    added several times each hour.\r\n\r\nI'm a member of two other type forums and
    there's far less activity that I hardly visit them anymore.\r\n\r\nI'm also a
    member of about five other forums and post to two of them several times a month.
    One of them has 157,000 members, the other has 2,557,000 members. You can imagine
    the amount or unregistered \"lurkers\" they have.\r\n\r\nThe only reason I post
    is to try and learn something, and the only reason I reply is to try and share
    what I know. Forums are one of the best and most up-to-date informational resources
    available anywhere. Millions of people seek advice and/or information from \"experts\"
    in Forums daily whether they post or not.\r\n\r\nGet over it! Stop pissing and
    moaning about who should see what and how long they get a peek. Forums should
    remain open for all to read though members have additional privileges and access
    to a smaller \"Members Only\" area. That's the way the best Forums run.\r\n\r\nIf
    there were a \"Members Only\" Read & Post area on Typophile, that is where this
    topic belongs. The IMHO the public should not see us pissing & moaning. Rants
    and flaming will scare any novice away from posting or even joining.\r\n\r\nKeep
    this crap up and I will take my Typographic Ball somewhere else where members,
    guests and lurkers are all respected.\r\n\r\nBTH- Hi Joffre, long time since we
    had a beer!\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-14 21:30:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "IMHO, \"lurking\" is a misnomer.\r\nYou might just as well call the regular
    posters \"grandstanders\".\r\nIt's like you're at a party, and does everyone have
    to be the life and soul of it?\r\nOf course not.\r\n\r\nAlso, there are a number
    of forums that one may want to get involved with, but their complexion changes
    constantly. I often check out design observer or speak up, but I rarely feel sufficiently
    in the groove to get involved with a thread.\r\n\r\nSince the redesign, I'm having
    resertvations about Typophile. Sure, some new features are cool, but the topics
    seem a bit light. I put it down to the absence of being able to post visuals directly
    into thread."
  created: '2005-06-14 21:47:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Norbert, I don't believe any of us should engage in silence or fawning to
    attract/keep people; it's much better if we share what's on our minds openly...
    just like you've done here!  :-)\r\n\r\nNick, the quality of discussion on any
    forum ebbs and flows; we just need to avoid a massive ebb that might cripple Typophile
    (especially since it's the best type board, ever). And I think the current ebb
    here started some time before the redesign, maybe even almost a year ago; if anything,
    the redesign should help.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-14 22:20:19'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "\"Norbert, I don\u2019t believe any of us should engage in silence or fawning
    to attract/keep people; it\u2019s much better if we share what\u2019s on our minds
    openly\u2026 just like you\u2019ve done here! :-)\"\r\n\r\nI agree Hrant.\r\nAll
    that being said, Typophile does seem to have the best Forum for exchanging info,
    ideas, exploration, research and plain old feelings about type forms and typography.
    If anything, this topic did evoke first posts by new members and shamed a few
    visitors to become members.\r\n\r\nI guess I'll move on to the next interesting
    topic.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------\r\nYes, I'm old, but I'm back
    in style!"
  created: '2005-06-15 05:32:16'
date: '2005-05-20 00:00:11'
title: The Digital Curtain -or- Will you stop staring please and say something?!

---
