---
author:
  name: sim
  picture: 129649
body: "I begin a new projet. I plan to use it as a text typeface and I also want to
  draw some weight and their italic.\r\nYour criticisms would largely be appreciated
  to pursue my project.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nAfter some tips from Chis here the necklace
  test I've done. \r\nSee my most recent Necklace Test v2\r\n\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_V10a.pdf\">Migration_v10a</a>\r\n<a
  href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_V10b.pdf\">Migration_v10b</a>\r\n<a
  href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_v11a.pdf\">Migration_v11a</a>\r\n<a
  href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_v13a.pdf\">Migration_v13a</a>\r\n<a
  href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_v13-7.pdf\">Migration_v13-7</a>\r\n<a
  href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_bold-v1.pdf\">Migration Bold v1</a>\r\n<a
  href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_v15-2.pdf\">Migration Medium_v15-2</a>\r\n<a
  href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/1a_Migration_MedItalBold.pdf\">Migration
  Medium-italic-bold-1a</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_020407.pdf\">Migration
  (5 weights)</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_necklace-v1.pdf\">Necklace
  Test v1</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_necklace-v2.pdf\">Necklace
  Test v2</a>\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This has more character than one might expect, considering how overcrowded
    this genre is. The \"a\" is quite charming, and the \"g\" is encouraging. Plus
    I like the fact that it's a bit narrow.\r\n\r\nOne thing I don't get though is
    the right legs of \"h\" and \"m\": is that on purpose? If so, the intention (adding
    character?) might be good, but it's hard to see this feature working out well
    in the end.\r\n\r\nThe caps are a bit too dark.\r\n\r\nThe spacing needs a lot
    of work! :-/ But overall it has a nice tightness - I'd keep that.\r\n\r\nAnd some
    macro stuff: the color is a bit darkish (which I actually like), but if you're
    shooting for mainstream usage, it implies optimal setting at smaller sizes. If
    that's what you're shooting for, I would: loosen the spacing; and pull in the
    descenders a bit. Otherwise I would: lighten the color; and lengthen the ascenders
    a bit.\r\n\r\nBTW, it would be nice to see a character set too.\r\n\r\nAnd one
    more thing: good luck!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-20 21:55:49'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\n<cite>BTW, it would be nice to see a character set too.\r\n</cite>Did
    you see this <a href=\"http://www.webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/MigrationSans.gif\">Character
    set</a> in my previous post?.\r\n\r\n<cite>I don\u2019t get though is the right
    legs of \u201Ch\u201D and \u201Cm\u201D: is that on purpose? If so, the intention
    (adding character?) might be good.</cite> I thought to use this inslant only for
    the h and the m. Only to give something different for this genre.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    caps are a bit too dark.</cite> Do you mean, I have to reduce the weight of the
    caps or reduce the width of the letter (stem, bowl, etc.)?\r\n\r\n<cite>The spacing
    needs a lot of work! :-/ But overall it has a nice tightness - I\u2019d keep that.</cite>
    I dont know how to do this. How to reduce the spacing and keep the tightness.
    My not enough experience in this domain, prevents me from knowing how to make
    it. Some advices on this subject would be appreciated.\r\n\r\n<cite>mainstream
    usage</cite> Could you explain to me what is a mainstream usage versus <cite>Otherwise
    usage?</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks for your generous comments.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-21 12:32:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You mean that GIF? Too low res.\r\n\r\nThe caps: reduce the weight.\r\n\r\nSpacing:
    a good first start is the scheme in Walter Tracy's \"Letters of Credit\". As for
    the tightness issue I mentioned, I meant that I think you should keep it slightly
    tight overall (partly because the color is darkish).\r\n\r\nMainstream versus
    idiosyncratic color: at any given time in type design history, most designers
    will have a preference for lighter or darker fonts. In the Middle Ages people
    liked dark fonts, while in the 70s they liked very light fonts. That's been moving
    more towards dark lately, but some people (like Fred Smeijers) still prefer a
    color that's darker than most other designers agree is good. I like darkish fonts
    too. A designer can justify a preference for something outside the mainstream
    either by simply saying that's the way he likes it (not too hot), or by believing
    that users benefit (very good).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-21 16:11:29'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Here a better  <a href=\"http://www.webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/MigrationCharacterset.pdf\">Migration
    Character set</a>\r\n\r\nHrant,\r\nYour comments have a big value for me. I pursue
    my work and I shall return with modifications.\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2005-05-21 16:31:36'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "<cite>(partly because the color is darkish).\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nHrant\r\n\r\nIt
    took some day to react to that comment. Could you elaborate a bit on that. I don't
    know what the word darkish mean. In french we say <em>gris typographique</em>.
    Is that you want to say?\r\n\r\nBTW, I worked a lot on my Migration typeface.
    I hope I will be able to send a second version of it soon.\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2005-06-15 18:40:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Darkish\" just means slightly dark. So I was saying that your font is a
    little bit darker than fonts like this typically are (and I for one like darkish
    fonts).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-15 21:45:36'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "After several good comments I put aside Migration to see how I'd be able
    to improving it. I made several changes at all glyphs. For instance, I completely
    redraw the weight of the caps, I rebuilt the bottom of the a (it was to dark),
    the e, B, P, R, \xE6, \u0153, all the number was also redraw. I also rework on
    the ?, &, the currency. I have some difficulty with the comma, I'm not sure where
    I am for now with that glyph. I also work on the spacing.\r\n\r\nYour comments
    will be really appreciate. <a href=\"http://www.webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/MigrationSans_3.pdf\">
    Here is the most recent result.</a>\r\n\r\nYou could see here the <a href=\"http://www.webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/MigrationSet_3.pdf\">character
    set .</a>"
  created: '2005-09-09 13:46:28'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Andr\xE9, the most recent PDFs are coming out set in the Adobe Sans substitute
    font for some reason. (The previous ones worked correctly.)"
  created: '2005-09-09 14:25:24'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "It's working now.\r\n\r\nI would agree with Hrant's comments about the weight
    of the caps, spacing, the h and m, and so on.\r\n\r\nI think the revised version
    shows a lot of improvement over the earlier one. One thing that stuck out to my
    eye was that there was not enough space on the left side of the lowercase a. It
    looks fine now.\r\n\r\nSome things I'm seeing in the new version: \r\n\r\nCertain
    characters--the A, a, G, s, V, 4, for example--look slightly bolder than the rest.
    It's not just these characters, but those are the ones that stand out to me. \r\n\r\nThe
    X appears to lean to the left, and there is too much space on its right side (or
    the left side of the Y). \r\n\r\nThe curve on the bowl of the R is too thin.\r\n\r\nI
    liked your previous non-connecting fi and fl ligatures better. It's traditional,
    but I don't think it necessarily makes sense to connect the characters in a sans
    serif. You're really just trying to correct the problem of the f colliding with
    other characters. Connecting the characters is not the only way to do this.\r\n\r\nI
    think you need to spend more time with the ampersand. I can't tell for sure from
    your sample, but I would guess that you have drawn it with the counters as separate
    paths. During development, you don't have to draw your characters this way. You
    can make one continuous path with overlapping elements. That way, you get a nice
    flow to the strokes. You can remove the overlaps anytime before you generate the
    fonts. I do it as one of the last steps."
  created: '2005-09-09 16:45:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Some things:\r\n- The \"s\" has a malformed bit at the top-left of the spine.\r\n-
    I might make the slashes in Oslash/oslash less slanted.\r\n- Try to relieve the
    clotting in the joins of \"OE\", maybe by thinning from the inside of the \"O\".\r\n-
    In the \"ae\" the \"a\" is too small.\r\n\r\nSpacing: Uneven, but can't tell much
    else from justified paragraphs.\r\n\r\nMark, nice to see you've warmed up to type
    crits! Your eye is most welcome.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-10 02:26:32'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I ask some questions on my Migration \xABg\xBB. I worked on some new models.
    The first one is the one who is a part of my family typeface. His lower storey
    is not sitting on the baseline, 3 others are new possibilities and the most left
    one has his lower storey sitting on the baseline. \r\n\r\nCould I have your opinion
    on those <a href=\"http://www.webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/g_test.gif\">Migration \xABg\xBB.</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-22 13:13:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the 2nd and 4th are good candidates.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-22 16:04:25'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It's hard to compare the new g's out of context. Perhaps if you set a word
    or two with each variation?
  created: '2005-09-23 03:23:05'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Here some words with the  <a href=\"http://www.webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/g_Highland-test.gif\">Migration
    \xABg\xBB in context.</a>. That will be helpfull to give your advise. Thanks \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-23 13:01:28'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Honestly, I like the first one the best. \r\n\r\nI think I see what you're
    trying to do with #4, but aligning the bowl geometrically with the baseline, because
    of optical effects, makes it look like it's below the baseline.\r\n\r\nWhat do
    you feel is wrong about your original g that you want to change it?"
  created: '2005-09-23 15:19:57'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Mark\r\n\r\nI'm glad to ear that. The # 1 was also my first choice. I checked
    a lot of typeface and I found there are a  majority of them sitting their lower
    storey on the baseline.  I though it was a part of the response to have a good
    readability. So I tried with mine but I was'nt satisfied. For now I'll keep my
    first choice. Thanks"
  created: '2005-09-23 15:58:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Of itself, #1 is better I agree. But it's not... \"dorky\" enough, which
    this face is, although in a decidedly endearing way. The slight disproportion
    of #4 makes it more in character I think. And the fact that it aligns better is
    a bonus.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-23 16:05:35'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: 'Great Hrant. You gave me a new view on that glyph. I love challenge, I''ll
    try to get what you''re taking about. Thanks '
  created: '2005-09-23 16:46:29'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>And the fact that it aligns better is a bonus.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's just
    it--it doesn't align better. It looks like the top of the lower counter is below
    the baseline because there's no optical compensation. If apparent alignment is
    not the goal, then it wouldn't be a problem. Nobody says it must align there (or
    appear to)."
  created: '2005-09-23 20:40:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I actually meant optical alignment... except I didn't\r\nactually look to
    see which was better that way though.  :-/\r\n\r\nOne thing about anything optical
    however: it depends on scale; you can't know the amount of optical compensation
    needed by just looking at magnified glyphs out of context. Most notably, this
    applies to basic things like the round overshoot of the \"o\" (as explained by
    Harry Carter in his translation of Fournier). What size is this design meant for?
    The larger the size, the less optical compensation you need, and there's a threshold
    above which it's worth just snapping to the exact alignement.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-23 20:51:25'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Mark & Hrant:\r\n\r\nBoth comments are really interesting and usefull to
    me. \r\n\r\nSo I've to ask a question to me. What size my typeface will be use
    the most often? Do I have to choose if I'll align my lower storey g on the baseline
    or not in relation with that question?\r\n\r\nIs the reader could be bother with
    an apparent alignment?"
  created: '2005-09-23 22:00:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What I was trying to say is that if you decide that some part of a glyph
    should look aligned to something, the degree of optical compensation you need
    to make it <cite>appear</cite> aligned (as opposed to being aligned Cartesially)
    varies depending on the size the font is used at.\r\n\r\n> Is the reader could
    be bother with an apparent alignment?\r\n\r\nGenerally he's \"bothered\" by close-but-not-exact
    [apparent] alignment. But only during deliberative \"reading\". During immersive
    reading I feel <cite>misalignement</cite> can actually be used to good effect
    - because information comes from contrast, and the subconscious doesn't care about
    things lining up (at least not in terms of the mechanics of reading, if not a
    type design's \"subliminal\" effects).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-23 22:37:43'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I worked on my g to give him something more...\xABdorky\xBB <a href=\"http://www.webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/g_Highland-test-v2.gif\">Here
    the result.</a>\r\nThanks for your helpfull comments."
  created: '2005-09-26 21:15:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think that Garamond form is mighty fine*,\r\nbut to me the second one still
    works the best.\r\n\r\n* I might make an entire font just based on that!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-26 21:23:02'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "\r\nOn all of them I changed the ear from the earlier version. I worked with
    the a tail. Looks better to me for now and I agree with you Hrant, the second
    one is still the better choice. We have sometime to go far away and come back
    to find our first idea was the better one. I'll take in count your suggestion
    to start a new family on the \xABg garamond form\xBB Thanks"
  created: '2005-09-26 21:50:50'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I worked on my ampersand (esperluette or perluette in french) and it's hard
    to me for now to choose one of them if one of them should be choosen. May be I
    will have to work more.\r\nThanks for your generous comments.\r\n\r\nLet's get
    ready for the <a href=\"http://www.webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/Ampersand-v1.gif\">Migration
    ampersand</a>. "
  created: '2005-09-29 15:24:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I think the last one works the best. The others are more unconventional and
    call undue attention to themselves, I think. They also seem a bit off balance.
    You may want to try some other forms if you think the last one is too conventional.
    If you want go with the open design you are using in the first four, you'll need
    to pull the strokes more into that open space on the right.
  created: '2005-09-29 16:47:30'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I also worked on my number 4. I tried to open the top to avoid to have this
    sector too much bolder as in the <a href=\"http://www.webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/MigrationSet_3.pdf\">previous
    version.</a>\r\n\r\nTime for the new <a href=\"http://www.webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/No4.gif\">Migration
    4</a>. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-29 19:32:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Personally, I actually tend to think the \"fully closed\" ampersand tends
    to disrupt more - it's too complex a shape (like the [traditional] binocular \"g\").
    I think only some type designers have a problem with the \"open\" style, probably
    due to habit. Considering the other shapes in your font, I would go with the second
    one. But you might try asking laymen.\r\n\r\nAs for the new \"4\", I think that
    tight space is too distracting. You might try making the vertical stem much shorter.
    But really, the closed one you had before seems fine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-29 19:34:56'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "<cite>As for the new \u201C4\u201D, I think that tight space is too distracting</cite>\r\n\r\n\u2026And
    after a second closer look, the two open 4 look smaller than the other number.
    I'll keep the older one. "
  created: '2005-09-29 20:02:42'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Personally, I actually tend to think the \u201Cfully closed\u201D ampersand
    tends to disrupt more - it\u2019s too complex a shape (like the [traditional]
    binocular \u201Cg\u201D).</em>\r\n\r\nAs far as that goes, it's less complex than
    the g he's using. I say, if the binocular g is okay, the closed & is okay."
  created: '2005-09-29 20:50:27'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Hard to say <a href=\"http://www.webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/G_2way.gif\"> which
    Migration \xABg\xBB</a> could be having the best impact, the longest life or the
    best readability. May be my question is superfluous. \r\n\r\nYour advice will
    help me. Thanks "
  created: '2005-09-30 18:17:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\n\r\nThe binocular g seems as though it may be a dark spot at
    text sizes.  Perhaps it needs to be opened up some to get the space in it to feel
    like the rest of the glyphs. The single story g is the opposite, it looks a bit
    too large.  You might pull up the counter a bit so that the lower horizontal stroke
    is a bit above the baseline. In general, the double boweled g is supposed to be
    a bit more readable in text because it has greater differentiation but it may
    not always be the best fit for a particular typeface.\r\nDo you have a PDF of
    Migration in text size and quantity? this would help evaluate the effect.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-23 23:06:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Part of the difficulty with a low contast face is that you have fewer options
    in making adjustments to make complicated recurves like the binocular g.  This
    is easy in a serif face with contrsat and decender room.  I always struggle with
    this myself, the chalenge forces you to try different ways--(which is why some
    people say I \"make wierd g's\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-24 00:19:29'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I worked on my migration by taking in count of the comments of Hrant, Mark
    And more recently of those of Christ. I redrawn all the caps weight, the 4, the
    Ss, the \xE6, the \u0152 and I also tried to give in my g more character.  <a
    href=\"http://www.webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/Migration_Med.pdf\">Here the result.</a>\r\n\r\nYour
    comments are largely appreciated. Thanks."
  created: '2005-10-24 18:49:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\n\r\nMostly, the color is not uniform enough yet. The a, e, and
    g are dark spots.  You may have to decrease the horizontals in those glyphs and
    open the counters a bit (Look hard at the upper bowl of the g.).  I think your
    horizontal strokes overall need to be optically adjusted thinner.  Remember, you
    are trying to give the appearance of monoline, you are not actually making it
    measured as monoline. This shows up most as the size gets smaller.  If you intend
    this to be a text face, it is more of an issue. You may also consider putting
    some traps in to make it optically balanced in weight. In some cases, I can't
    tell if it is a metrics problem that contributes to unevenness but I think it
    is as well. I would decrease the sidebearings on curved sides of glyphs like b,
    d, p, q.  At this stage, I would not set samples justified, stick with ragged
    right for the moment.  It is too hard to separate out what spacing issues are
    due to your justification algorithm and which are inherent to your metrics. \r\nSet
    an \"nu\" necklace (nuanubnucnudnuenuf...) and then an \"o\" necklace (oaobocodoeofogohoio...)
    to test your sidebearings. Leave kerning off. Print strings of these at text sizes
    and make adjustments to sidebearings until the color is even. If you cannot get
    even color with this setting, it indicates that some of the glyphs need adjustment.
    Those will stick out like the g does now. This is a difficult stage.  For me,
    the first drawing of the glyphs is quick.  The longer time is spent going back
    and forth with spacing and glyph adjustments to turn a set of glyphs into a harmonious
    family.\r\nI think you have to be sure you are consistent in spacing as well.
    \ Look at page 2 column 2 at the word \"playwright\" and then at the word \"works\"
    on the next line. Look at the \"ri\" and then the \"rk\" The r seems farther from
    the i than it does to the k.\r\nMostly, just keep at it.  You will get a good
    result for your efforts. I think it is coming along well. You just need to push
    through the hard part.  You will see. I am confident you will end up with a good
    typeface for your efforts.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-27 00:36:28'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nYou give me many tips to keep on and the encouragement to continue.
    Your explanations are really clear.\r\n\r\nThanks so much.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2005-10-27 01:01:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Glad it helped Andr\xE9, keep working :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-27 13:12:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> necklace\r\n\r\nChris, did you make that up yourself?  :-)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9,
    some of the changes you've made are quite interesting - it makes the font more
    unique, not to mention harder to evaluate - but I do think in some spots you've
    gone too far...\r\n\r\nThe \"g\" for one needs a lot of work all of a sudden -
    although in the context of some of things you seem to have done, it probably won't
    work to simply go back to one of your previous forms... Instead, I would: put
    less weight in the head, as well as the join between the head and lower bowl;
    and put more weight into the left side of the lower bowl. The UC \"S\": bad curves
    throughout. The florin: should slant. The Brit Pound: smaller head. Quotes: too
    much stroke contrast.\r\n\r\nThe cap height: I think it's too close to the ascender
    height.\r\nI would either make them the same, or more clearly different.\r\n\r\nThe
    traps: I think they're cool, but inconsistent. Have you\r\nseen this? http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_trapping1.html\r\nIt
    helps you quickly put consistent trapping in a font.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-02 05:09:51'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nI know I went far with my g, and I'm not satisfy yet. Also
    thanks for the link on the traps. I did not know it.\r\n\r\nYour advice will help
    me. Thanks again\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2005-11-02 18:22:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"> necklace\r\nChris, did you make that up yourself? :-)\"\r\n\r\nShould
    I have said string of pearls? :-)\r\n\r\nActually, the term \"necklace\" was used
    regularly by Arnold Bank, my calligraphy teacher from the early 60s.  I don't
    think he invented it though. It was probably a long-standing calligraphy thing.
    \r\nArnold had us do many n and o necklaces as practice for calligraphy. It was
    more about developing consistency in writing than measuring side-bearings. It
    seemed like a good term and it stuck with me low these many years.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-03 00:09:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It IS a nice term!\r\nFor one thing it certainly sounds nicer than \"control
    string\"...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-03 01:28:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Control String\" sounds like what Cheney has wrapped around old \"Scooter\"
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-03 02:57:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nHow is it going? You must be up to your ears in it by now:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-12 04:26:22'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "You know what it is. I work hard on my Migration and I've an hard time with
    my lower case g. I also work on necklace as you suggested and I find it's gaving
    me good result. That's why it takes longer time to post something. I also redraw
    all caps.\r\n\r\nI hope to post something new soon. \r\n\r\nI've an other problem,
    I tried but I dont't know how to really work with the Trapping Flower as suggest
    by Hrant :\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_trapping1.html\r\n\r\nThanks
    to take care of me ChrisL,Hrant, Mark, Norbert, and of course my wife, my daughter,
    my friend.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-11-12 21:08:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Keep at it but family always comes first!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-12 23:22:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nYou asked me about text to test your typeface in. I thought
    I would post an answer here. You might consider longer sections of text in different
    languages to see the different letter combinations that come up and may need attention.
    In case you are not already aware of it, a good site to find multilingual text
    is the United Nations Human Rights Charter which has the text set in many languages.
    \ Here is the link if you don't know it :\r\nhttp://www.unhchr.ch/udhr/index.htm\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-21 14:37:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That's neat Chris.\r\nHere's one I found for Greek polytonic, Smyth's Grammar.\r\n\r\nhttp://perseus.mpiwg-berlin.mpg.de/cgi-bin/ptext?doc=Perseus%3Atext%3A1999.04.0007&query=head%3D%2339\r\n\r\nHowever,
    there is something a bit strange about its polytonic, as the plain tonos-accented
    characters are taken from the monotonic character-set. "
  created: '2005-11-21 18:09:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nMaybe they were having some PolyGin with their PolyTonic :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-21 18:11:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Seriously though Nick, thanks for the link! I was not aware of that site.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-21 18:15:49'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Thanks Chris and Nick, I'll use thoses links to prepare my next post.\r\n\r\n
    ; ^)"
  created: '2005-11-21 18:34:02'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I\u2019ve finally work on Migration taking in count comments from Chris,
    Hrant, Nick and Mark. \r\nI have posted a new PDF (10 th version) at the top post.\r\n\r\nI
    redraw and ajust all the caps. The a is a bit wider. I also redraw the g. I still
    have to work on trapping with the great support of Hrant an his Trapping Flower
    (http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_trapping1.html)\r\n\r\nAs Chris suggested I
    optically adjusted all horizontal strokes to give them a thinner strokes.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again to all of you and do not hesitate to give me your comments on the last version.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2005-11-28 14:58:38'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Andr\xE9, your font did not embed properly in the PDF."
  created: '2005-11-29 05:41:40'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I hope the new file I posted will work well. Thanks\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2005-11-29 12:44:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nYour PDF now works correctly.\r\nYou have done much work. It
    is a GREAT improvement!  At first glance the  l, j, and t bottom terminals (at
    the hook) seem a bit out of sorts with each other.  The l seems to be the problem.
    \ I can't seem to resolve why it is not vertical like the other two?\r\n\r\nI
    will take a longer look at home and have more to say but you have come a long
    way--or should I say you have made a great migration accross the sans :-) \r\n\r\nNow
    go back and hug your wife and daughter!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-29 15:53:46'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Thanks Chris\r\n\r\nI'd like to keep the curve terminal of my l, t and j
    but I think your right about they seem a bit out of sorts with each other. I think
    the problem is when I reduced the horizontal stroke of all my glyph.  I did the
    same treatment to those 3 letters and it seems it wasn't the solution to take.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder if it would be a good idea to try to work with the terminal of the a or
    the mu or somewhere between thoses two and the actual l, j and t. I'll try.\r\n\r\nI'll
    also try to use a vertical stems for them.\r\n\r\n> Now go back and hug your wife
    and daughter!\r\n   I will.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-29 16:23:05'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Andr\xE9, this is looking very good. At this point, I'm just noticing little
    problems here and there; things that need a bit more polish.\r\n\r\nThe curve
    of the n looks a little bent here:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/n.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    would make it smoother. Same with the h, m, and u.\r\n\r\nIn letters like the
    s, the thickness of the stroke is a little uneven. I'm not saying it should be
    the same all the way round, but that it should flow more evenly from the narrower
    parts at the end to the thickest part in the middle. The curve itself could be
    smoother."
  created: '2005-11-29 16:51:22'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Thanks Mark,\r\n\r\nThe S cause me an headache, but I love this letter and
    I will take in count your suggestion.\r\nFor the n,h,m and u, I'll take a closer
    look, I didn't notice this problem.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-29 18:28:25'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I\u2019ve retouched Migration taking in count comments from Chris and Mark
    concerning the l, n, m, u, h. I also redraw the s and the S.\r\n\r\nI have posted
    a new PDF (10b version) at the top post.\r\nThanks\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2005-12-02 18:13:59'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: The n, m, u, and h are looking good. I think the cap S still needs a little
    work around the insides of the curve at the top left and bottom right. I'm still
    seeing a slight kink. One trick that I use is to hold down the shift key while
    moving the curve point. This moves the curve point without moving the handles.
    The result is that the extrema can be adjusted without altering the overall curve
    very much. Sometimes that's all it takes to get the curve to flow nicely.
  created: '2005-12-02 18:49:18'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Thanks Mark for the \xABTips\xBB. This S cause me problem, but I'm strong
    enough to challenge him.\r\n\r\n\xDF ^ j"
  created: '2005-12-02 18:54:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Andr\xE9, looking good.\r\n\r\na: very cute. I'd move the inside apex of
    the top counter to the right a bit.\r\nc: bottom-left is a bit weak.\r\ne: top-left
    too thick.\r\ng: nice.\r\nel: curl too thick.\r\nt: surprising - but I think it
    works.\r\n\r\nF, T: too wide.\r\nK: arm weights are off.\r\nN: interesting stroke-weight
    decisions. Could work. In any case, don't let the chiro-ghosts scare you.\r\n\r\nNums:
    nice. The \"5\" is out of character though.\r\n\r\nae: top too thick.\r\nAE: too
    heavy, especially at left.\r\nguillemet(s): funny stroke contrast.\r\nBP: very
    nice.\r\npercent/permille: circles too big.\r\nasterisk: tilt it more.\r\n?: very
    nice. Just the bottom-right of the head is too thick.\r\nat: I'd use a mono \"a\"
    inside.\r\ndagger(s): wassup with the flaring?\r\nsection: leaning right.\r\npilcrow:
    interesting. Don't like it.  :-)\r\nTM: bar of \"T\" too thick.\r\nquotes: I would
    space the doubles tighter than two singles.\r\n\r\nBlank space: wider.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    it's good to see you using the Flower. Two things:\r\n1) Make sure your basic
    forms are finished first.\r\n2) The mouth of the traps is too big.* Use a smaller
    Flower, but maybe increase the Multiplier. Or maybe your Minimum ring is too big.
    To be sure, could you show a Flower in place, like on the \"v\"?\r\n3) You have
    to decide between the trapping in the \"A\" versus the \"M\" versus the \"V\".
    Or is that what you're trying to do right now? :-)  Personally I think the \"V\"
    is most likely to be best.\r\n\r\n* Unless this is for really small sizes. In
    fact your color, spacing and proportions suit that too... So is that definitely
    your target now? Sorry if I haven't been paying [enough] attention.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-02 21:35:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nGood improvements at first glance.  I am on my way to watch
    my son in a swimming meet but I won't forget to give it a closer look!\r\n\r\nMark,
    I didn't know about the shift trick.  I have always counted clicks  I moved thcontrol
    point and then clicked the BCP the same number back. THANKS!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-02 22:22:31'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I used to do that, too. \r\n\r\nNote: It doesn't work if the curve point
    is the first point in the path. The workaround is to make some other point the
    first point. I hope this has been changed in FLS5. It also must be a smooth connection,
    but that only makes sense. "
  created: '2005-12-02 23:54:14'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Hey guys, you wake me up fast this morning. Really happy to have those great
    comments. I will for sure take it count your critique and I will work to try to
    improve Migration. My goal is still the same as the beginning: making a text typeface
    and you help me to reach that goal.\r\n\r\nThanks again and see you soon.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2005-12-03 14:36:53'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I\u2019ve done some fine tuning on Migration taking in count comments from
    Hrant, Chris, Mark and other type designer on Le Typographe.\r\n\r\nI reduced
    a bit the terminal of lower case : c, s, e, a. I change a bit the numerals 1 and
    5. \r\n\r\nI'v also did some optical correction on some letters: h, n, m, u, d,
    b, p, q. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Optical_correction.gif]\r\nThe
    tail of the a had slightly increase. I also retouched the s and the S.\r\nI have
    posted a new PDF (11a version) at the top post.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2005-12-09 14:32:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\n\r\nIt is looking realy good now.  You may now have to revisit
    spacing issues with letters that have open right sides like f and r. They seem
    to need their right sidebearings reduced to begin with and then perhaps some more
    kerning to curved letters on their right.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-09 15:09:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Solid.\r\nIn the alphanumerics, only the \"5\" looks off to me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-09 19:16:23'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I think your upper and lowercase are in good shape.\r\n\r\nA couple of other
    things popped out at me: \r\n\r\nThe germandbls needs the same kind of attention
    as the S and s did. It swells unnaturally in the top and middle curves.\r\n\r\nThe
    question mark feels off-balance to me. I would shift the bottom part towards the
    middle. I think it should be a little narrower, too."
  created: '2005-12-12 14:47:04'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Thanks Chris, Mark and Hrant. \r\n\r\nI'll make thoses touch up and I'll
    post something new soon.\r\n\r\nQuestion: What would you suggested after that?
    Work on a light version, bold version or something else. \r\n\r\nI did not work
    on hinting yet, the problem is that I dont know how, so I've to read on it. Howerver,
    is hinting is useful considering I plan to use Migration only as a print typeface?\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2005-12-12 15:45:10'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Type 1 hinting is not too difficult and is all you really need for a print
    typeface. See this discussion:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15436\r\n\r\nAs
    for what to do next, I would think bold would make the most sense. That or italic.
    Think of how the typeface would be used and what would be useful."
  created: '2005-12-12 15:52:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\n\r\nIf you plan to do a family with several weights, you might
    consider working on themost extreme weights (light and bold or even black). This
    way, you can you the Multile Master technique to generate the in-between weights.
    \ You still need coreection to them but it is far less tha would be manually.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are only adding bold and italic to your regular, then I would do italic first.
    This helps when it comes time to do bold italic but mostly, I think you learn
    more from making an italic because it is different than roman or regular in character.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-12 16:07:46'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Thanks Mark and Chris\r\n\r\nI will think about those goods comments carrefully.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2005-12-12 16:18:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Make a really light and really dark cut working from what you have now.\r\n2)
    Interpolate them to the weight of the original.\r\n3) Compare to the original,
    tweaking the extremes to get where you want.\r\n4) Throw away (well, archive it)
    the original.\r\n5) Make intermediate weights at whim.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-12 17:08:37'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Thanks Hrant,\r\n\r\nThis \xABHow to...\xBB will be really helpfull to me.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2005-12-12 18:15:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just one caveat: many people think that -especially at the dark extremes-
    insisting on interpolatability can limit the quality and effectiveness of a design
    (or at least some designs). I can see it myself; but haven't done anything about
    it yet. Carter is the master at that (among other things).\r\n\r\nAlso, just so
    it's clear: steps one to three are iterative.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-12 18:32:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I find a break point between extra-bold and Black. You can use MM instances
    to generate the set and will have much less cleanup and redecision in the weights
    in the middle. The bolder you get, the more the MM interpolation is unable to
    make the best decisions.  The extremes require much rethought. That is not to
    say don't do a MM interpolation of the Black weight. It just means know that your
    work is just begun with the instance output.\r\nGenerating a medium or demibold
    is much easier and needs less human intervention.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-12 18:55:20'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I let my Migration away for few time and I reworked on it a bit. I redraw
    some curve (c, e, d, n, m and so on), I also retouch the question mark and all
    the numerals. I give an attention to the  germandbls, the f, the t, the copyright,
    the registred trade mark. Finally I modified the trapping on the caps letters.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OtherStep.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    have posted a new PDF (Migration_v13a.pdf version) at the top post."
  created: '2006-01-12 14:27:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Looking good Andr\xE9! Maybe time to try an italic?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-12 19:12:21'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: An italic or a bold one? I've a hard time to choose one of thoses two. I know
    it's completely different, but in the process is the italic would be the best
    way to go? Or doing the two at the same time?
  created: '2006-01-12 19:47:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nI would say italic because it teaches you more. Bold is fine
    as well. I just think you might get more knowledge out of the italic since it
    involves so much.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-12 19:55:18'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Thanks Chris for your suggestion.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2006-01-12 20:18:18'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I finally ended my first version of my Migration bold and I also have make
    retouch) in medium.\r\n\r\nHere is where I am. \r\n\r\nI have posted two new PDF
    (Migration_v13-7.pdf and Migration_bold-v1.pdf) at the top post.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Test_italiqueMed.png]\r\nI
    also began the italic, but in a very summary way at the moment. An opinion of
    you, member of Typophile, would be very appreciated."
  created: '2006-04-14 14:35:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Welcome back Andr\xE9!\r\n\r\nAt first glance, your latest medium looks very
    clean and the spacing is much better. Well done!\r\n\r\nThe bold is a beginning.
    The joins on the n and r seem different.  The r is more successful in the bold.
    \ The n at small sizes rounds off there and feels like a missprint. The upper
    horizontal on the b and d seem heavy at the join.  \r\n\r\nI will give it a harder
    look later.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-14 22:47:33'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Andr\xE9, looks like you've got a good start on your bold weight. I just
    have one point to add to Chris's:\r\n\r\nCharacters that have more color to them
    (such as the a, e, g, and s) need to be opened up a bit in the counters. This
    has the effect of reducing the weight, so you want to do it in such a way that
    it is not obvious. The bolder the weight, the more you need to do it. Your bold
    is not super bold, so it may not take much. Your eye will (hopefully) tell you
    when it looks right, though it takes some experience to see it clearly. (It's
    not supposed to be noticed, after all.)"
  created: '2006-04-20 23:50:59'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: Thanks to both of you Chris and Mark. I'll work on that (open up the counters)
    and also some others things I saw comparing to my medium face.
  created: '2006-04-21 00:59:37'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I've made some little changes in my Medium caps and did thoses changes to
    the bold version. I also open some counters (a, e, g and s) in that version.\r\n\r\nI
    have posted two new PDF (Migration medium v15-2.pdf and Migration Bold-v2.pdf
    at the top post.\r\n\r\nI guess It is the time for me to start the italic version."
  created: '2006-04-21 13:26:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nI think you still have to open up the lower bowl of the g some--perhaps
    just horizontally?\r\nAlso look at the \"k\" I think the lower leg of the k needs
    to come up a bit to optically ballance the top.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-21 15:02:55'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Thanks Chris,\r\n\r\nI'll look at the g and the k. Especially for the \u201Cg\u201D
    I wondered how to reduce the effect of spot in small print. I'll try your suggestion.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2006-04-21 16:20:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That is always the dilemma with the double bowl g.  There are so many horizontal
    strokes in such a small space.  It is easier in a high contrast font where you
    can really thin the horizontals.  You still have to optically this them is a monoline
    sans but that is much harder and almost makes it a requirement to have a display
    and a text version for some fonts.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-21 16:38:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\n\r\nGood to hear from you! Best wishes to you and your family?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-07-01 12:27:49'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I've launch 3 complete weight of my Migration. The medium, the bold and the
    Italic version. I worked hard on my bold g to avoid the problem at the small point
    size. I also retouched the bold r. \r\n\r\nI have posted one new PDF - Migration
    Medium-italic-bold-1a - at the top post.\r\n\r\nI start the bold italic version.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your comments.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Migration3_5943.png]"
  created: '2006-09-27 14:06:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bravo Andr\xE9! You have been hard at work!  I will take a closer look at
    your new pdf and get back later to post.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-27 16:56:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nIt is good to see you back at work and making progress! You
    have done a great deal of work and should commend yourself for your labor :-)
    \ I wish I could speak French but I know so very few words.  I envy your ability
    to speak several languages. Tr\xE9s bon?\r\n\r\nYour greatest challenge (as is
    mine) is the italic. Italic a and g look a bit too wide for the rest but the u
    looks too narrow; Tail of the g comes up too much for italic\u2014perhaps it should
    be more like the y? The fi ligature is too closed.  The space between the f stem
    and the i stem in the ligature should be as far apart as the stems in the u. The
    ligatures in your upright fonts do look correct though.\r\n\r\nThe bold weight
    seems to have become too condensed.  It looks as if you added weight to only the
    inside.  You need to open up the counters of the bold to make it feel more like
    your normal weight proportions. The n, u, and h look too narrow for the rest.
    The g looks quite nice though!\r\n\r\nI find that changing weights is much more
    difficult than it looks at first.  Sometimes it takes me longer to build the first
    weight change than it does to do the original! Don\u2019t worry though, the ones
    between are much easier :-)\r\nA way to examine your work is to lay your lighter
    weight on top of your heavier weight one glyph at a time in 2 different colors
    so you can see both.  Check to see if the bold has \u201Cgrown\u201D out of the
    light in a sensible way.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/abn-overlay_4097.png]"
  created: '2006-09-28 01:17:23'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nThank for your excellent advices and for the time you spent
    on my typeface. I appreciate particularly your suggestions of 2 superimposed letters.
    I'll continue my work and I'll return to you with the modifications. You clearly
    notice the difference between my regular and bold face and you easily show me
    how to solve this \xABprobl\xE8me\xBB. \r\n\r\nHave you eve tought to be a teacher?
    May be, you already one.\r\n\r\nThanks again.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9 ;^) "
  created: '2006-09-28 13:29:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Andr\xE9, I would love to become a teacher.  I will be retiring from
    my current day job in June.  Perhaps some unsuspecting college will have me as
    a typography teacher? I did teach for a few years some time ago and enjoyed working
    with the students.\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, keep your head of steam with your typeface
    but stop for tea with your family between steps :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-28 13:49:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\n\r\nDo you have Adobe illustrator? That is what I used to make
    the exaple above in 2 colors.  I type the glyps one at a time and format them
    as the bold weight.  Then, I copied the glyphs using the select tool, not the
    text tool, and pasted in front; then I changed the type pasted in front to the
    lighter weight and changed the color.  This shows you what it looks like.  To
    work as you look, in FontLab, paste the light weight into the mask layer of the
    bold weight and line up the mask layer so that it is directly centered over the
    bold weight in the top layer.  That way, you can work on the outlines while looking
    at the mask layer at the same time.  There are no colors but you still can compare
    the outlines that way as you work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-29 19:33:42'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Chris.\r\n\r\nYes I've Illustrator. I didn't know you worked with.  \r\n\r\nI
    already use what you suggested - paste the light weight into the mask layer of
    the bold weight and line up the mask layer -. I was impressed by the color on
    your sample ;^). I wonder if you did that with FL. It's clear now.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your suggestion.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2006-09-29 19:48:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I didn't know if the post above worked or not.  While I was sending you an
    IM telling you to look here, the browser went white and I got an \"access denied\"
    error.  Glad you got it though!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-29 20:09:20'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Hello all of you. \r\n\r\nAfter long time, I come back with something I redraw.
    To the bold and the regular one I've add a light, a thin and a new regular italic.
    I did not work on kerning yet. The hardest task for me (read: hard to understand
    the process)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Migration_5graisses_6077.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your comments. They will be really usefull for the next step.\r\n\r\nSee the
    latest file at the beginning of this post: Migration (5 weights) or use this link:
    <a href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_020407.pdf\">Migration (5
    weights)</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-03 02:06:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Good to see you back Andre!\r\nI will look at your file as soon as I get
    my taxes done :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-03 02:24:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nYou have made great progress! I think you are getting close.
    There are things that I cannot see from your PDF because of spacing issues. There
    may be some dark spots to contend with which may clear up when your spacing issues
    are resolved.\r\nTry doing the following:\r\nCreate a test string (what I call
    a necklace) using first straight vertical side glyphs and then round glyphs. Do
    this in both cap and lower case. HAHBHCHDHEHFHGH...OAOBOCODOEOFOGOHO...0102030405060708090.
    For lower case, it is best to mage a 2-letter necklace: nuanubnucnudnuenufnugnu...\r\nThe
    point is to sandwhich each glyph between two upright strokes. There will be no
    kerning needed for these pairings so be sure kerning is off. The idea is to adjust
    the sidebearings untill you have an even rythum with not breaks or dark spots.
    After you have done the straight necklace, move to the \"o\" necklace. \r\nMake
    a testing of these strings in various sizes between 9pt and 24pt. Post a pdf of
    this with no kerning. You will later perhaps need a few kern pairs for situations
    like \"ro\" and \"vo\" but leave that for later.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-19 15:35:25'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Thanks Chris for that suggestion. I'll post new pdf of that as soon as I
    can. \r\n\r\nYou wrote to turn off the kerning. May I turn off kerning in FL before
    to generate my typeface (Generate Suitcase)? If so, I do not know how and where
    in FL \u2014 sorry of my ignorance :^\\\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2007-04-19 16:03:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nIn the FontLab metrics window, there are two icons for the two
    states \"Metrics\" and \"Kerning\". Turn on the \"Metrics\" one to just see your
    strings withpout kerning and make adjustments that way. \r\nThen, output your
    fonts as usual but when you produce your samples, turn kerning off in InDesign
    (select all your text first). See the little popup which says \"Metrics, Optical,
    zero\" and set to zero or none. This way, you just turn kerning off temporarilly
    for the purpose of the test.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-19 16:11:09'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Great Chris.\r\n\r\nThanks again.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2007-04-19 16:27:50'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Chris:\r\n\r\nHope I\u2019ve understood what you\u2019ve suggested \r\n\r\nThanks
    for your comments.\r\n\r\nSee the latest file at the beginning of this post: Necklace
    test or use this link: <a href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_necklace-v1.pdf\">Migration
    necklace test</a>\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-19 19:10:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nBefore I comment and bias your opinion, I want you to print
    out this latest file and let it sit for a few days without looking at it. I want
    you to have a bit of distance to see it fresh. Then look at your printouts and
    post what you think you see. Look mostly at the lower case and compare the weights.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-19 19:33:33'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: Good suggestion of course. I'll take in count your suggestion. I want to go
    too fast probably :^)
  created: '2007-04-19 20:19:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\nThe excersize was to get you to look at your spacing. At this
    point, your spacing has to be adjusted before  I (at least) can see if there are
    issues with your glyphs. For my vision, the straight sided glyphs do not have
    enough sidebearing and make the letters clump up.  Try to balance the interletter
    spacing with the counters so that they are in harmony, not in opposition. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-24 15:56:12'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "The tips that you suggest is really well explained. I initially will create
    classes, what is not made yet  and thereafter I will launch out in this work.\r\n\r\nThank
    you to share your knowledge.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-25 00:52:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You are doing good work Andr\xE9! Stay with it.\r\n\r\nRegards to your family,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-25 01:01:19'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "For all those which can help me for the spacing of my letters.I\u2019ve revised
    the necklace test for spacing taking in count the Chris\u2019s suggestions.\r\n\r\n\r\nSee
    the latest file at the beginning of this post: Necklace test or use this link:
    <a href=\"http://scm.webmaestro.qc.ca/img/Migration_necklace-v2.pdf\">Second Migration
    necklace test</a>\r\n\r\nRegards\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 15:59:45'
date: '2005-05-20 15:03:43'
node_type: forum
title: Migration Sans Project

---
