---
author:
  name: sim
  picture: 129649
body: "What font is used on the food label of products which indicates the information
  of <strong>Nutrition Facts</strong>? Saddened, I have no image. This piece of information
  appears on the label of all the products. It gives to the consumers of the information
  onto Calories, Fat, Carbonhydrate, and so on.\r\n\r\nTo me, it seems to be Helvetica
  condensed or Trade Gothic but I'am really not sure.\r\n\r\nThanks in advance\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "I don't think there is a standard typeface used for the \"Nutrition Facts\"
    labels. Right here I have a box of apple juice that uses Helvetica/Helvetica bold,
    and a can of soup that uses Helvetica light condensed/Helvetica bold condensed.\r\n\r\n
    - Lex"
  created: '2005-05-21 18:55:16'
- author:
    name: Lex Kominek
    picture: 109602
  body: "Looking over the food in my pantry, all of the \"Nutrition Facts\" or \"Nutrition
    Information\" labels seem to be set in some weight of Helvetica.\r\n\r\n - Lex"
  created: '2005-05-21 19:00:05'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Aye. Pretty sure it's all [[Helvetica]].
  created: '2005-05-21 19:12:15'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Hehehe, I recently designed some chocolate wrappers, chocolate peanuts bags
    and jam labels, and I set the nutrition facts all in <a href=\"http://www.emigre.com/Volume.php?p=UPEMSOLFM\"
    target=\"new\">Solex</a>. It's very economic and stays perfectly readable at very
    small point sizes. I just hope I won't get arrested by the food label police.
    :-P\r\n\r\nI think it's all to do with the tired myth that [[Helvetica]] is the
    best readable typeface -- which is total and utter bollocks, pardon my French
    -- and also due to laziness of the \"designers\" involved. It doesn't take a lot
    of thinking to just pick the most obvious and overused face in your font menu.
    In a perfect world professional pride should prohibit you from neglecting even
    the tiniest details on stuff you design, so the most trivial and mundane piece
    of information should get the same kind of attention as the cover or headline.\r\n\r\nThere
    <em>are</em> clients who notice and appreciate that."
  children:
  - author:
      name: huggyGiraffe
    body: "There are clients who notice and appreciate that.\r\n\r\nSo you haven't
      realized yet that you aren't designing for the client, but for the client's
      client?\r\n\r\nHow long are you in the business, kid?"
    created: '2005-06-12 11:37:17'
  created: '2005-05-22 14:07:32'
- author:
    name: James Gareth
    picture: 110251
  body: 'Actually, in the US the FDA mandates the nutrition panel information, which
    must follow certain guidlines to maintain uniformity across diverse brands and
    products. This was done within the last ten years in order to make the nutrition
    panel more uniform and easier to understand for most consumers (before it was
    a mess!). Typefaces are not mandated but certain typefaces are recommended (Helvetica
    Black, Franklin Gothic Heavy) which is probably why Helvetica is used everywhere.
    Check <strong><a href=http://www.cfsan.fda.gov/~dms/labtr.html target=new>here</a></strong>
    and <strong><a href=http://www.cfsan.fda.gov/~dms/flg-5-1.html traget=new>here</a></strong>
    for specific typeface and other design guidelines on the "Nutrition Facts" panel.
    It also specifies leading, size of horizontal rules, etc. '
  created: '2005-05-22 17:02:48'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Interesting... I just looked at a lot of similar wrappers and labels and went
    from there.
  created: '2005-05-22 18:12:16'
- author:
    name: huggyGiraffe
  body: "I don't think the Nutrition Facts area is something that should be treated
    overly creative. So using other fonts than Helvetica to me isn't good design.
    Wherever the n. facts area on a product is, I automatically identify it for the
    Helvetica Bold on white background with smaller type below. So I don't have to
    use extra brain cells for finding it, which makes it good design to stick with
    the norm.\r\n\r\nNo offense to the person who designed it with Solex, but if I
    was your art director I hadn't let it out..."
  created: '2005-06-09 17:38:40'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I had to set some Nutrition info for a sauce and used Franklin Gothic Condensed,
    also quite readable in various weights. Using a condensed font made it take up
    less space.\r\n\r\nEdit: in fact, I used Franklin Gothic Compressed, not condensed.
    Worked very well - readable and unobtrusive."
  created: '2005-06-09 17:56:55'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "I don't think I follow you Herb. So you're saying that the simple selection
    of a typeface that's far more readable and far more economic is \"overly creative\"
    and \"not good design\". Interesting... Would you mind explaining that to me,
    please? I'm always eager to learn, and I certainly don't want to repeat this mistake.\r\n\r\n.
    : . : . : . : . : . : . : . : . : . : .\r\n\r\n<em>Wherever the nutrition facts
    area on a product is, I automatically identify it for the Helvetica Bold on white
    background with smaller type below.</em>\r\n\r\nNo kidding? I usually identify
    it for the bold words spelling out \"Nutrition Facts\" that run above a box with
    really tiny type. Maybe it's just me ...\r\n\r\n<em>So I don\u2019t have to use
    extra brain cells for finding it, which makes it good design to stick with the
    norm.</em>\r\n\r\nHey, it's not <em>my</em> fault you haven't got the extra brain
    cells to spare! :-P\r\n\r\nBut you're absolutely right when you say it makes good
    design to stick with the norm. Innovation, research, experimentation... that's
    all been grossly overrated in art and design history. No no no, we'll have none
    of that. Conformism is what we truly need, safe and comfy conservatism. Helvetica
    rules. Big time."
  children:
  - author:
      name: huggyGiraffe
    body: "wow, a lot of attitude I stirred up there. Kinda fitting to your nickname,
      uh? Sorry.\r\n\r\nAre you trying to say creativity is automatically achieved
      when you do something off the norm everytime you do something? Wouldn't that
      be a new norm on it's own?\r\n\r\nAnd yes, conformism is the way to go for such
      things as Nutrition Information areas. \r\n\r\nI hate to have to spell this
      out, but that *doesn't* mean you shouldn't be innovative and experiment where
      you are free to do so.\r\n\r\nYou actually remind me of some of the kids who
      are trying make every design piece they do look like a flyer for a techno party
      and then they don't understand that they cannot work for high profile clients.\r\n\r\nJudging
      from your photo you aren't even that young.\r\n\r\nOh well I shouldn't waste
      my time with people like you, so bye."
    created: '2005-06-12 11:35:28'
  created: '2005-06-09 21:04:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I personally think that if the client is open to originality and this originality
    fits within the bounds of readability and legibility and still resembles the afore-mentioned
    item then I see no reason why solex can't rock it better than helvetiicamonica.
  created: '2005-06-09 23:16:27'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: I did a double take when I saw a brand of pasta use [[Futura]] on their boxes
    for the nutrition facts.
  created: '2005-06-10 06:47:29'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "Well, Mr Fassbinder, I think you may have just 'outdone' yourself with these
    posts / replies, and you are, what, a member of Typophile for only a tad more
    than a week, now.? 'Nice' one.. <em>( You sure do seem like a bitter, sad, oh,
    and old, man.. )</em>\r\n\r\nBye.."
  created: '2005-06-12 12:16:21'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Wait a minute\u2026\r\n\r\nI don't want to mandate any typeface for anything,
    but I think that the real beauty of the American Nutrition Labels in that they
    are relatively homogenous. \r\n\r\nThese labels were conceived to be the same
    across the board. They are not subject to branding. They allow consumers to quickly
    identify ingredients, and compare products based on their nature and not on their
    package design. Sometimes, this get a little silly. I remember the first time
    that I saw this label on a bottle of water (Dasani, from Coca-Cola); its label
    had a zero next to everything. That was funny. It was also sad, I thought, that
    it was now necessary to put ingredient information on water\u2026\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I think that it is a service to the customer (the viewer, reader, etc) that these
    all look nearly identical. That is the whole point of the labels. Living in Germany
    now, I actually miss these labels quite a bit. Ingredients here are usually listed
    in the tiniest of type, at the very bottom of the package. That is illegible and
    does not help anyone do anything. The manufacturers here probably just put those
    on a package because they have to. The American standard is much better, I think,
    because at least it is clear and legible.\r\n\r\nWhether the spec recommends Helvetica,
    Franklin Gothic, Solex, or Remedy is sort of irrelevant to me. I think that this
    \"lack-of-design\" is good.\r\n\r\nDidn't the AIGA declare these labels to be
    the best piece of design produced in the US during the entire 1990s? There is
    some truth there. They are good info. design\u2026\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-12 13:14:50'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I'm going to get it for this\u2026\r\n\r\nI think that these would even be
    OK in Arial.\r\n\r\nSo many people seemed to have used Helvetica, probably because
    most designers have it and were trying to be intentionally neutral. Arial would
    be even more neutral, because everyone has it.\r\n\r\nThat must have been the
    reason that the John Kerry campaign picked Georgia as their face\u2026 every computer
    (almost) had it installed.\r\n\r\nSometimes, the lowest common denominator is
    good. Think about the end-user! Here we are talking about stressed-out shoppers,
    who have little time to compare products. Give them something easy to understand.
    They'll thank you for it.\r\n\r\nHelvetica and Arial are not the most legible
    typefaces. That is no surprise. But what is a more legible typeface that would
    be easy to get to every designer servicing the American market? Myriad maybe?\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-12 13:19:02'
- author:
    name: James Gareth
    picture: 110251
  body: "<em>So many people seemed to have used Helvetica, probably because most designers
    have it and were trying to be intentionally neutral.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think
    intention has much to do with it. The FDA in no uncertain terms recommends and
    strongly encourages Helvetica (or Franklin Gothic), and uses them in their examples.
    This is why designers used them when the label was overhauled and this is why
    those faces continue to be used on US Food packaging. \r\n\r\nNow as to why the
    FDA chose Helvetica ... there neutrality may have been a factor. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-12 17:06:34'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "Herb,\r\n\r\nI agree with formlos, I think Typophile can very well be without
    rude people like you. Yves Peters (troubleman) is a very talented and brave designer
    and shouldn't have to stand nasty comments like yours, when just sharing his views
    and ideas.\r\n\r\nLove, Peace & Understanding!"
  created: '2005-06-12 20:16:10'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Herbert, it appears to me that you're making a lot of sassy comments without
    even knowing what I'm talking about. Let me clarify a few things:\r\n\r\nI live
    in Belgium. We don't have an FDA that spells out how Nutrition Facts should look
    like. I wasn't aware of these standardisations and frankly I don't even <em>need</em>
    to be, as they only apply in the USA. It's up to the designer to make this information
    as clear and legible as possible within the limited space available on food packaging
    (I realise this amount of freedom may sound terifying for someone like you, but
    it really isn't). I achieved this by carefully selecting a typeface, and a before-and-after
    comparison with several similar food packages proved that ours was by far the
    clearest and easiest to read. Unlike what you are trying to imply, Herbert, this
    process took me a couple of minutes at the most, as I do know my type and usually
    can predict what the effect will be. Setting a simple box with legible type is
    not \"trying make it look like a flyer for a techno party\".\r\n\r\n<em>Are you
    trying to say creativity is automatically achieved when you do something off the
    norm everytime you do something? Wouldn\u2019t that be a new norm on it\u2019s
    own?</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't say nor imply this <em>in any way</em>, that's just
    your imagination talking. But when the norm here seems to be way too small <em>all
    caps Futura Condensed</em>, you might understand that sticking to the norm is
    not very user-friendly. If trying to improve on that is bad design, than I'll
    happily be a bad designer. These were diet products for diabetics, so I wanted
    to make sure that the consumer would have no trouble at all reading this crucial
    information. So conformism was absolutely not the way to go in this pecific case.
    Don't worry, if the norm works, I'll stick to it.\r\n\r\n<em>No offense to the
    person who designed it with Solex, but if I was your art director I hadn\u2019t
    let it out\u2026\r\n\r\nJudging from your photo you aren\u2019t even that young.\r\n\r\nOh
    well I shouldn\u2019t waste my time with people like you, so bye.\r\n\r\nSo you
    haven\u2019t realized yet that you aren\u2019t designing for the client, but for
    the client\u2019s client?\r\n\r\nHow long are you in the business, kid?</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    you tell me you are surprised that you \"stirred up a lot of attitude\"? After
    making such demeaning statements? I don't mind a well-informed opinion and a healthy
    debate, but I do take offense at mean-spirited comments and plain rudeness. Just
    listen to yourself! You don't know me, and you went way out of line, several times
    in a row. Who do you think you are, and frankly, what makes you think you'd ever
    be in a position to be my art director?"
  created: '2005-06-12 20:37:33'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: Impressive, to where a simple technical question can go. That's design!
  created: '2005-06-13 12:30:42'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Sorry that your thread turned ugly, Andr\xE9. That's always a risk when you
    ask people that are passionate about what they do. ;-)\r\n\r\nI hope this won't
    scare you away from participating in the future. As long as everyone stays courteous
    there's no risk in this kind of situations repeating themselves. On the whole
    we're a very mild-mannered and polite bunch, really, when you compare this forum
    to others."
  created: '2005-06-13 13:08:17'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: Yves is not worried. I adhered to the forum, I stay there. I know the risks
    and I am ready to assume them. It was an observation without consequence.  With
    this thread I received more answer than I hoped.
  created: '2005-06-13 13:15:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Does Herb remind anybody else of Type that guy that was insulting graphic
    designers a few months back?\r\n\r\nIf we left all our graphic design decisions
    up to government agencies the world would be a sorry (and ugly) place. A Nutrition
    Facts box may not be the place for a bold design statement but there is no reason
    for information graphics not to have a little style if no legibility is lost?
    \r\n\r\nThat said, there are a lot of \"kids\" out there who think of type as
    merely a design element and not something to be read. "
  created: '2005-06-13 14:25:40'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em>That said, there are a lot of \u201Ckids\u201D out there who think of
    type as merely a design element and not something to be read.</em>\r\n\r\nQuite
    right, but I think it's all inherent to the learning curve. We all \"sinned\"
    when we were young, didn't we? :-)\r\n\r\nAnd BTW it's certainly not just the
    kids (maybe that's why you added the quotation marks). There are some young guys
    who do amazing typographic work, and then there are graphic designers with years
    of experience who'll probably <em>never</em> learn. Especially the majority of
    the ad agencies here appear to have no clue whatsoever how to properly set type."
  created: '2005-06-13 15:18:02'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Not to mention that every idiot with a PC thinks they're a designer now. I
    love the computer and wouldn't go back to cut and paste for anything but I think
    it has, to some extent, taken design out of the hands of professionals and with
    not such good results.
  created: '2005-06-13 15:25:44'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>every idiot with a PC thinks they\u2019re a designer now.</em>\r\n\r\nand
    everyone with a camera thinks she's a photographer. and everyone with a set of
    paints thinks he's an artist. and everyone who has a hammer -- a carpenter, &c.\r\n\r\nJust
    as certain people appreciate fine photography or excellent cuisine, only certain
    people are going to fully understand the importance of good design. let the rest
    of 'em live on mac n cheese."
  created: '2005-06-13 21:18:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'hey. no dissin'' on the mac and cheese, paul, if you use asiago or padano
    and add a nice ground pepper it can be good. '
  created: '2005-06-14 00:36:48'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "A little pancetta adds a nice touch too.\r\n\r\nDifference is the computer
    has made design newly available to the masses so there's been an explosion of
    dreadful design in the last 20 years. Ugly art and bad photography are nothing
    new."
  created: '2005-06-14 03:32:41'
- author:
    name: huggyGiraffe
  body: "Troubleman,\r\n\r\nread the posts in order and then you'll see you're the
    one who started being nasty and I only responded the same way.\r\n\r\nI guess
    when I said \"if I was your art director...\" some deep frustration in you broke
    out and you had to make all the nasty comments about me not liking freedom of
    speech etc.\r\n\r\nAs you are the regular here and not me, I had no chance in
    the first place, because that's how internet forums work...\r\n\r\nToo bad!!!
    I am soooo defeated now.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-18 08:44:07'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Herbert, this is getting too silly for words. I'm sorry we got off the wrong
    foot. Let's stop this bickering and move on. I hope to meet you in another thread
    where the debate promises to be lively.\r\n\r\nBye for now.\r\n\r\nYves"
  created: '2005-06-18 17:04:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "This has NOTHING to do with type but here is maybe the most hostile thread
    I've ever seen. Cycling anyone?\r\n\r\nhttp://thorntree.lonelyplanet.com/messagepost.cfm?postaction=reply&catid=32&threadid=776884&messid=6606542&STARTPAGE=1&parentid=0&from=2&showall=true"
  created: '2005-06-18 17:08:28'
- author:
    name: huggyGiraffe
  body: "troubleman, okay I am ready to go all emo with you, my dear :)\r\n\r\nBut
    it has to be stated that, if you read this thread chronologically, you are the
    one who started with the bad bad wording. \r\n\r\nLet's just not forget that.
    I don't know WHY you now desperately want to continue in another thread, I just
    hope it's not to detract from the fact.\r\n\r\nThe truth will prevail!"
  created: '2005-06-18 18:08:55'
- author:
    name: type
  body: "\"Does Herb remind anybody else of Type that guy that was insulting graphic
    designers a few months back?\"\r\n\r\n\r\nwhat are you talking about? insulting
    graphic designers -- who? what way?  what did i say?   the Trajan thing still
    in your head huh? move on lady."
  created: '2005-06-18 18:43:36'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "This is starting to sound like a schoolyard brawl, and boy do I hate those.\r\n\r\nHerb,
    Type, why don't you go get a life.\r\n\r\nBoth of you.\r\n\r\nSheesh... kids.
    :-/"
  created: '2005-06-18 20:32:38'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Troubleman (Yves), huggyGiraffe (Herb), Type, Pattyfab (Patricia). I realize
    your discussion surrounds a design-related issue so, it's clearly on topic. But
    please do it without the name calling and the drama. There's no need to question
    someone's age. There's no need to question someone's \"brain cells\" or bring
    the user Type into it.\r\n\r\nThere, that was the obligatory chastisement. Being
    a moderator, Yves should know better than to spout off without at least 2 or 3
    more smiling emoticons. If you don't know Yves you should know that he often comes
    with some salty remarks, underpinned by his usual charm. I'm going to chalk this
    one up to a bad day. What you may not know about Yves is that he is a very reasonable
    person, is genuinely easy to get along with, puts in a lot of hours helping with
    these boards and most importantly, when it comes to type he knows his stuff -
    all reasons why he is an excellent moderator.\r\n\r\nNow that that's off my chest...\r\n\r\nI
    have to agree with some of the sentiments here that a nutrition label is not an
    area to customize or put a brand spin on. Sure, I'd question Helvetica for this
    use, but I'd put that question to the standards body (if there truly is one in
    this case). But I certainly wouldn't put it to every individual designer out there
    making one-off decisions about the given package they're working on. And that's
    not a judgement about the use of Solex either. Solex might work perfectly well.
    I'm simply arguing that standards in this case are warranted.\r\n\r\nTo Dan's
    comment, I'm not sure I'd be eager to make a correlation between what is very
    common on people's computers, and what is the most generic or most appropriate
    for this kind of facts label. (Comic Sans holds up to that same criteria.)"
  created: '2005-06-19 04:04:41'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "The whole point of making nutrition labeling standard in the US was in part
    because food producers were putting huge amounts of sugar, salt and fat into their
    products and then misrepresenting them through marketing and advertising. Most
    recently their has been a movement to expand the labeling to fast food chains
    like Burger King etc. \r\n\r\nFor that reason the FDA required that the labels
    be large and the type to be an easy to read san serif. This isn't about design,
    its about protecting the public from bad food processing practices."
  created: '2005-06-19 11:55:34'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "You could compare this (Nutrition labeling - how readable is the 'standard'?)
    to the way cigarette packaging has to show a health warning (speaking about The
    Netherlands). The size of those warnings has been set in regulations, but the
    producers use very condensed and extremely tight type, so these warnings turn
    into ornaments, being almost unreadable.\r\n\r\nMaybe the US Nutrition labeling
    has just became that: a token gesture, turned into a ornament, just as the UPC
    barcode... So there is a just reason for questioning the validity of the present
    practice. Imagine redesigning those tables to convey some REAL information, eg
    the fact that a product provides all of the Vitamin C needed in just one dose.
    Or making clear that there is a dangerous dose of salt in it. (Designers could
    go crazy...) In any case: making them more readable. By readable I don't mean
    just legible, but also INFORMATIVE. \r\n\r\nOn another note: I have been in Forums
    for quite a few years now, even moderated a few in the days they were in BBS's
    and not on the Internet, and I think one should disregard obnoxious, irritating,
    etc. posts if they occur occasionaly (everyone has bad days). On the other hand:
    someone who is a constant heckling presence should be banned.\r\nIn this case
    I have not noticed Mr Herb doing a lot of nasty stuff, so maybe it's better to
    let it rest... "
  created: '2005-06-19 14:22:00'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I don't know... I think nutrition labels are pretty darn usable because they're
    universal and generally large enough. But, if we put nutrition labels and cigarette
    warning labels on a spectrum it would fall something like this (in order of most
    readable to least):\r\n\r\nNutrition Labels (generous size, consistent placement)\r\nVideo
    Game Rating labels (sizable enough, generally consistent placement)\r\nMPAA Movie
    Ratings (very tiny, inconsistent placement)\r\nCigarette Warning Labels (condensed
    sans, all caps, but large and prominent)\r\nDrug Warning labels (wrapped in tiny
    text on small bottles or boxes)\r\nMovie Poster Credits (extremely condensed,
    thin, all caps)*\r\n\r\n(*Okay I threw that in there for laughs. This info may
    be harmful but it's not life threatening.)\r\n\r\n(This is not to say nutrition
    labels could not be improved by any means. Just trying to illustrate that they
    function well compared to some other informational labels.)"
  created: '2005-06-20 05:34:40'
- author:
    name: Coffeeboss
    picture: 114021
  body: "Ok so I found this thread on my search to find an layered Illustrator file/template.
    Any one have one built to spec, here?\r\nI thought will all these experts I could
    get a killer CS3 version. Adobe Exchange is usually good for this but \r\nits
    down right now. Anyone ? Bueller....Bueller? "
  created: '2008-01-19 00:17:00'
date: '2005-05-21 17:32:43'
node_type: font_id
title: (x) Nutrition facts on food product labels - (generally) Helvetica {Lex}

---
