---
author:
  name: chadbrewer
body: "\xA1Howdy!\r\n\r\nI was wondering if there are any fonts that scream \"American\"
  when you look at em. Fonts designed by Americans, used more by Americans - etc.
  \r\n\r\nA few thoughts I had: \r\n\r\nObviously all the old west looking fonts like
  <A href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/wanted/\"> Wanted </a> look American.\r\n\r\nSome
  others that have been kicking around for many decades like  <A href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/copperplate-gothic/\">Copperplate
  </a> and <A href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/cooper-black/\"> Cooper
  Black </a> came to mind.\r\n\r\nAnd maybe P22's <A href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/p22/hopper-edward/\">Hopper,
  Edward </a>, since it's based on the handwriting of a big time American artist.
  \r\n\r\nI curious to know what you all think, \r\n\r\nCheers! "
comments:
- author:
    name: SignLion
  body: Beyond a doubt, it is definitely Interstate.
  children:
  - author:
      name: TBiddy
      picture: 110666
    body: "I would've said Interstate too, had I not seen it plastered all over advertisements
      in London.\r\n\r\nTerry Biddle"
    created: '2005-05-23 20:22:00'
  created: '2005-05-23 05:32:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Cheltenham is about as American as apple pie. (hmmmm... "apple pi" now THAT'D
    be an American font!)
  created: '2005-05-23 06:00:04'
- author:
    name: ericgio
    picture: 109840
  body: "I'd say something by Goudy. one of the great american type designers. Well,
    prolific anyway. a lot of people would argue with his being characterized as \"great\".\r\n\r\nor
    others by morris fuller benton (who designed cheltenham)\r\n\r\nseeing as how
    america's a diverse country with a diverse history, it kinda depends on what you
    define \"american\" to be..."
  created: '2005-05-23 07:17:49'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: "Display types:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/GrandCentral\"
    target=\"_blank\">Grand Central</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Eagle\"
    target=\"_blank\">Eagle</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.p22.com/sherwoodtype/plymouth.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">Plymouth</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/search?search%5Btext%5D=princetown\"
    target=\"_blank\">Princetown</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 08:47:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Comic Sans.
  created: '2005-05-23 15:07:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\nMy votes would be\r\n\r\n1. Bud's original Courier for IBM - the official
    face of officialdom. Don't forget to black out parts of the doc for the authentic
    declassified security memo look, if that's what you're after. \r\n\r\n2. Helvetica,
    the corporate face of the IRS and all those tax forms.\r\n\r\n3. Franklin Gothic\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 16:41:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Great thread! I'm especially interested in the texty angle of this issue
    (since it's too easy to express Americanism in the display realm).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 17:26:22'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Caledonia, Electra, Metro ... Dwiggins by jiggity.
  created: '2005-05-23 17:42:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The problem with the \"most often used\" angle is that these fonts were mostly
    not American designs.  Times Roman is perhaps the most often used text face.  For
    some reason, Century strikes me as having an American look.  Helvetica has more
    of a Swiss connotation to me.  Too often, the most popular fonts are those that
    come bundled free with either Windows, Office, Mac OS, or Adobe applications.\r\nI
    guess in this Digital type Internet era, nationalistic fonts are melting into
    multinational fonts.  It is so easy to get fonts from anywhere in the world that
    being pinned to one country's fonts is unrealistic. I have many hundreds of fonts
    and have never chosen which to purchase because of its nation of origin.  I just
    by the fonts that work best for me.  The only reason I might not buy a font from
    a country is if I never have a need to set that language (meaning I don't understand
    it).  I am very tempted to by one of the Korean fonts because I am intrigued by
    the letterforms.  I would have no practical use for it other than just appreciating
    the form.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-05-23 17:53:45'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "Being an American studying type design in Europe, it's become a surprisingly
    often occurance for someone to tell me that I'm designing very \"American\" type.
    When I ask the person to elaborate it always seems to come down to \"adding something
    a old into something new.\" Another explanation went along the lines of \"in America
    you don't have anything old so you feel like you have to make something look older.\"
    I think that's true with a lot of things, especially architecture, but what do
    you think about it in regard to type?\r\n\r\nI also agree with ericgio about the
    Goudy reference, I think Goudyness is what a lot of people would consider to be
    Americanness in type."
  created: '2005-05-23 20:03:30'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: Arial Oblique Bold
  created: '2005-05-23 20:31:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Andy, some of that is a European complex though.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 21:05:12'
- author:
    name: defrancisco
    picture: 110421
  body: To me, nothing says "America" more than the designs of <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/person/benton/morris/fuller/">Benton.</a>
    But then again, I'm not american myself.
  created: '2005-05-23 21:38:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Someone (was it Allan Haley?) at Typecon (Minn.?) contrasted US vs European
    advertising typography letter spacing - as I recall he said the US was a lot tighter.
    Perhaps setting any American type tighter gets a more American feel.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 22:10:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The funny thing is that Americans (except for the Native American Indian)
    are from other countries. We are like conglomerate rock, bits of lots of other
    things melted together into an undefinable amalgam. I am second generation Greek
    American. My wife is a combination of Ukrainian, Romanian, Russian, and German.
    \ My kids are then a fusion of all of this--notice no English speaking ancestors
    in the mix.  Both my wife and my families emigrated to the USA after 1918 so we
    are not DAR or Mayflower candidates.  All this said, my children are no more American
    than my Russian, El Salvadoran, or Pakistani 1st generation neighbors living on
    my street. We can try to picture an \"American\" typeface but whose America? A
    descendant of the Mayflower or my Salvadoran neighbor?\r\nPerhaps this is like
    naive Americans who have never been to the Netherlands and picture the Dutch as
    all wearing wooden shoes.  Perhaps there may be some equally naive Europeans who
    think we in America all wear cowboy hats and carry guns?\r\nThe World has truly
    shrunk.  Many of the nationalistic boundaries that we have been so fond to depend
    on are just naive visions of a bygone era.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-05-23 22:15:28'
- author:
    name: nathanjones
    picture: 110670
  body: All of these at once.
  created: '2005-05-23 22:25:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"All of these at once.\"\r\n\r\nExactly ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-05-23 22:29:51'
- author:
    name: ericgio
    picture: 109840
  body: "I think part of the difficulty is that it's hard to put a blanket stereotype
    on america because of its all the different ideas and influences it has absorbed.
    i've read a thread or two about typically dutch typography and type design. Is
    there less diversity of style in dutch design which therefore makes it easier
    to label? this isn't meant as a disparaging remark in any way, just observational\r\n\r\nfor
    example it\u2019s easy to say Helvetica and Univers embody swiss typography because
    they were designed by swiss designers and predominantly used in modernist design
    which became widely known as the swiss school. I'm sure there were some other
    styles in switzerland, but let's be honest, that was the predominant style and
    the one for which switzerland is best known.\r\n\r\npaul rand was a huge proponent
    of many of those same ideals and he is the father of graphic design in america.
    but I don't think that connection makes those swiss typefaces \u201Camerican\u201D
    in any way.\r\n\r\nso maybe there are american ideals that are embodied in certain
    typefaces?\r\n\r\nI agree with chris about century schoolbook. I always picture
    kids in a one room schoolhouse on the frontier somewhere."
  children:
  - author:
      name: TBiddy
      picture: 110666
    body: "\"for example it\u2019s easy to say Helvetica and Univers embody swiss
      typography because they were designed by swiss designers and predominantly used
      in modernist design which became widely known as the swiss school.\"\r\n\r\nI
      thought Adrian Frutiger was French? Anywho, this is an interesting discussion
      and one thing that a few others have commented on already is that its really
      hard to determine the quintessential American face primarily because America
      is so different in many ways. I'm from Cincinnati, Ohio and live in New York
      City and let me tell you they're almost completely different countries. New
      York has more in common with London and Paris than it does with Ohio (aside
      from language of course). If I were in Cincinnati I would answer Rotis (since
      there are far fewer designers there and much work is done by only a few firms),
      but here in New York there are so many different designers and design firms
      that there doesn't seem to be just one answer. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I'm
      surprised no one has really mentioned any Benguiat fonts (aside from Bookman).
      His stuff is very historically American. Nothing screams American like some
      good ol' photo-lettering style type. \r\n\r\n"
    created: '2005-05-24 14:51:11'
  created: '2005-05-23 23:26:39'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Are you looking for something that a type historian would say is American?
    Or are you looking for the most popular typefaces in use in the US?\r\n\r\nThese
    are entirely different. The former might be [[Gotham]], the latter might be [[DIN]]."
  created: '2005-05-24 00:01:44'
- author:
    name: Forrest L Norvell
    picture: 109561
  body: Slap a big ol' all caps Franklin Gothic headline over a lawnmower ad with
    all the text written white on green in Avant Garde and you'll have a headache
    that'll last for a week. That's American for you!
  created: '2005-05-24 00:41:34'
- author:
    name: Forrest L Norvell
    picture: 109561
  body: "Or, alternately, flip through either of [[Doyald Young]]'s logo design bibles
    [[Logotypes and Letterforms]] or [[Fonts and Logos]]. His designs are rife with
    Morris Fuller Benton type, and even when the faces he uses aren't American, he
    uses them in a very American way.\r\n\r\nI'm kind of surprised that nobody's mentioned
    any of the five billion woodtype faces out there, but then again, I doubt many
    of y'all went to school out Montana way like I did. Nothing says ol' time Americana
    like some stylized woodtype on a tall skinny poster."
  created: '2005-05-24 00:45:46'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: "Franklin Gothic by Morris Fuller Benton, most any Goudy font but especially
    Goudy Modern, Goudy Extra Bold, and Goudy Old Style, always loved Goudy Thirty
    in metal, definitely Dwiggins Electra, any style Cooper especially Cooper 570,
    love Centaur by Bruce Rogers. I guess I am thinking more about metal type as the
    kind of American type I am used to. There aren't quite \"five billion woodtype
    faces out there\" but there are enough to keep me happy doing what I do.\r\n\r\n>I\u2019m
    especially interested in the texty angle of this issue<\r\nHrant, Goudy Modern
    is a wonderful text face, again, in metal."
  created: '2005-05-24 01:55:25'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: If <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/showfont.cfm?fid=LH.8250.0.0">Clarendon</a>
    was designed by a <a href="http://www.linotype.com/7-385-7-12741/hermanneidenbenz.html?PHPSESSID=e7388e2ac4c74b0a81ec9c11e8577b76">Swiss
    man</a>, why is it always the first face that comes to mind when I think of type
    that feels American?
  created: '2005-05-24 02:17:57'
- author:
    name: chadbrewer
  body: "To answer Joe's question, I was mostly thinking of a font that says \"American\"
    like baseball and apple \u03C0 (to be honest - from the anglo-saxon perspective).
    \r\n\r\nI can certainly see Cheltenham, Goudy, and  Century Schoolbook as all
    american. And Stephen, I see what you mean by Clarendon. What about ITC  Bookman?
    It kinda has that feel taken even further.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-24 02:37:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "oooh, better than bookman: <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/binny-old-style-mt/\">Binny</a>.
    \r\nand any font that's named for a US state, is pretty American to me: <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/iowan-old-style/\">Iowan
    Old Style</a>."
  created: '2005-05-24 03:13:22'
- author:
    name: Adriano Santi
    picture: 110406
  body: As a foreigner living in the US, my impressions are still Franklin/News Gothic,
    Electra and Metro.
  created: '2005-05-24 04:27:17'
- author:
    name: ericgio
    picture: 109840
  body: "should we start a poll here to keep track? (how does one do that?)\r\n\r\nI
    think franklin gothic is winning so far\r\n\r\njordy, centaur is a beautiful face,
    but does it really make you think \u201Camerican\u201D? bruce rogers was american,
    but centaur was a revival of jenson's venetian. so historically speaking it has
    no ties to america..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: wallmeyer
    body: Upon reading the initial question, Morris Fuller Benton's Franklin Gothic
      family immediately jumped to the front of my mind. While I agree that Century
      Schoolbook and numerous classic woodtype faces have a quintessential Americana
      flavor to them, among others, I think one would be hard-pressed to find a typeface
      that has had such consistant and widespread usage since its creation than Franklin
      Gothic. Perhaps it's just my newspaper background shining through, but I think
      the typeface has an elegant simplicity to it, with a touch of flavor, as well.
      Its heavy variety, for example, has a way of being firm without the artlessness
      of Impact or any number of unfortunate slab serifs. Franklin Gothic is undoubtably
      "new" -- at least as of the machine age -- and I think its lack of pretense
      speaks to what I like to think of as one of the best aspects of the American
      character, assuming there is such a thing. In other words, I don't think the
      typeface is trying to pass itself off as something it's not. It's just a great,
      utilitarian sans serif family, and I feel its widespread popularity since its
      creation near the turn of the century (just as the US was beginning to assert
      itself as an international power) makes a compelling argument for it as the
      "most American" typeface.
    created: '2005-05-25 04:05:12'
  created: '2005-05-24 05:12:45'
- author:
    name: Down10
    picture: 128220
  body: "I immediately thought of Cooper Black reading this thread.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    it's my memory of a book from my childhood featuring numerals in Cooper Black
    with illustrations by Norman Rockwell..."
  created: '2005-05-24 09:04:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I have the feeling that the classic American faces have a little more virtuoso
    \"drawing\" in them than comparable European faces. This would certainly be true
    of Goudy's faces, and you still see it in Berlow, Hoefler (especially his serifed),
    and of course Robert Slimbach.\r\n\r\nAn appreciation for the beauty of line for
    its own sake, rather than as mere servant to the overbearing rigor of a design
    system. At the risk of generalizing, there is something of use to commercial showmanship
    in this, and American culture is very commercial.\r\n\r\nHaving said that, in
    the digital revolution (despite the contributions of LettError and FontShop, a
    largely American-driven phenomenon), there has been a strain of hardcore experimentalism,
    where American typographers and type designers have been every bit as theoretical
    as the Europeans, and not afraid to produce conceptually driven work quite harsh
    in appearance. Many of Licko's designs, such as Matrix and Base, have this quality.\r\n\r\nSo
    these two leading proponents, Slimbach and Licko, could be said to represent the
    dichotomy of American culture, the mainstream (corporate) and the anti-establishment."
  created: '2005-05-24 12:22:37'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I thought Adrian Frutiger was French? </em>\r\n\r\nsee [[Adrian Frutiger]]."
  created: '2005-05-24 14:58:02'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I was going to suggest Rockwell, but I suppose Lubalin Graph would be more
    applicable, in terms of provenance.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-05-24 15:39:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Grunge fonts that sprung from David Carson's aesthetic seem contemporary
    American to me. Not sure if that's accurate to their origins/influences, but they
    seem skater/surfer influenced. Also, Ed Fella's vernacular work. I agree with
    tbiddy about the photo-lettering.\r\n\r\nRevivals like Mrs. Eaves and Filosofia
    (in their method of revival, rather than the type itself). Many of Emigre's fonts,
    in many ways, actually.\r\n\r\nThough, as others mentioned, Century Schoolbook
    and Clarendon feel American to me. Oh, and boxing poster types in the vein of
    Knockout and Balboa.\r\n\r\nWow, names keep hitting the front of my brain now.
    Maybe I agree with Nathan most of all: \"All of these at once.\""
  created: '2005-05-24 15:42:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Centered Clarenden caps as display and justified Century Expanded as text
    was, for me, the \u201CAmerican Look\u201D in the 50s. Later (early 60s) Cooper
    Black was all the rage. The 60s also brought the International style to the U.S.
    with AG, then Univers and Helvetica. Since then we have gone through many font
    flirtations. I don\u2019t think I can come up with a single face that would mean
    \u201CAmerican\u201D over all time. Maybe that is the point. America is always
    in a visual state of flux. We either borrow form from others or quickly invent
    our own and just as quickly abandon it in favor of some newer fad.\r\n \r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-05-24 18:40:57'
- author:
    name: ericgio
    picture: 109840
  body: "interesting that people are mentioning Licko. she's originally from czechoslovakia.
    not sure when she came to the US.\r\n\r\ndoesn't mean her typefaces can't be american,
    though"
  created: '2005-05-25 04:31:04'
- author:
    name: chadbrewer
  body: 'Plus it''s called Franklin...as in <A href="http://www.libertybellmuseum.com/images/benfranklinimage.jpg">Ben
    Franklin </a> ;)  '
  created: '2005-05-25 04:34:35'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Everyone seems to be treating \"American\" like some monolithic thing that
    a single typeface can somehow express. The first Declaration of Independence was
    printed in Caslon. Which isn't much like 19th-century slave lettering or contemporary
    urban graffiti. America is factionalized and always has been. Before you can pick
    a typeface to represent it you have to specify which America you're talking about.
    There's a political element implicit in the question.\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-25 05:55:56'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Yeah, I'd say Caslon as well, in the end, it is always dragged out. Patriotic
    zeal. But, remember the last election? Surely, some law must have been passed
    recently that mandates Folio. But, ultimately, gotta go with the output of Mr
    Goudy, American as apple pie. Our own typographic Will Rogers.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-05-25 10:06:23'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: ">Caledonia, Electra, Metro \u2026 Dwiggins by jiggity.\r\n\r\nI've looked
    it up in all accessible dictionaries, but I can't find what <strong>\"by jiggity\"
    / \"by jickity\"</strong> means. After finding the complete quotation at http://www.connare.com/essays.htm
    I can approximately derive what it might say, but I still don't know and it's
    funny that it's not listed even in my very big dictionary. ... just curious ...
    -- thanks!"
  created: '2005-05-25 13:04:20'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "<font face=\"Comic Sans\">'If you don't get your type warm it will be just
    a smooth, commonplace, third-rate piece of good machine technique - no use at
    all for setting down warm human ideas - just a box full of rivets... By jickity,
    I'd like to make a type that fitted 1935 all right enough, but I'd like to make
    it warm - so full of blood and personality that it would jump at you.' From Dwiggins'
    fictional argument over the modern age of steel and speed[7].</font>\r\n<BR>\r\nCarter,
    Sebastian, 'William Addison Dwiggins' in Twentieth Century type designers. London.
    Lund Humphries. 1995. p. 67. \r\n\r\nI couldn't agree more, by jickity.\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-25 13:44:07'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "I know this might sound ridiculous due to their actual origin, but I always
    found the Bell types to look tremendously American.\r\n\r\nAnd Christian's Los
    Feliz is, I think, the most quintessentially American type I've seen - in character,
    at least, if not often in use.\r\n\r\nI'm surprised nobody has mentioned the early
    Cherokee types as being American. Or perhaps \"those Americans\" don't count.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com : rock & roll mf"
  created: '2005-05-25 18:56:28'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Pabst anyone?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.lanstontype.com/Giampa/PabstShowing.html"
  created: '2005-05-25 20:02:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Joshua do you have any links or bibliographic information that you could suggest
    for those interested in the type of the Cherokee?
  created: '2005-05-25 20:08:04'
- author:
    name: michael77
  body: "First post ever....hello everybody.\r\n\r\nThe americans I\xB4ve worked with,
    have had some sort of affection for Gill Sans and Frutiger Light.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-25 22:16:44'
- author:
    name: caseyctg
  body: 'How about Americana, it says american and has it in the name! ALSO, I forget
    the name of them but how about some of the fonts on the dollar bill...... '
  created: '2005-05-25 22:23:11'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Good call, Casey. <a href="http://www.letterror.com/catalog/fed/">Federal</a>.
  created: '2005-05-26 00:56:18'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "The Cherokee types (there are a few) are based on the <a href=\"http://www.cherokee.org/Extras/Downloads/Font/Keyboard.htm\">85-character
    syllabary</a> and I have only, unfortunately, seen them typeset in specimens and
    not actual \"real world\" usage (although I know the historians among you will
    argue that specimens are just as much an authentic - or even more authentic -
    use as any other). It's similar to the LDS Deseret type in that it's based on
    a roman alphabet.\r\n\r\nHere's the Cherokee Nation's official page on the alphabet
    and a freeware font for download:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.cherokee.org/Extras/downloads/font/CherokeeFont.htm\r\n\r\nand
    a few other related resources:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.allthingscherokee.com/atc_culture_fonts.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.geocities.com/SunsetStrip/Stadium/7075/cherokee/CherokeePages.html\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com : rock & roll mf"
  created: '2005-05-26 01:05:06'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "\"I\u2019m surprised nobody has mentioned the early Cherokee types as being
    American. Or perhaps \u201Cthose Americans\u201D don\u2019t count.\"\r\n\r\nGeez,
    I really hate to be so politically incorrect here but you do realize where the
    word America comes from, hopefully? The European occupation doesn't provide aboriginal
    claims to Americanism. What the hell does prior soil got to do with it? Who was
    here before the northern transmigration? There is some evidence that other humans
    \"existed\" here prior to the occupation by what you refer to as \"those Americans,\"
    and who were exterminated as a consequence. And, I should point out, in the typographical
    vein, the original point of this post would seem to be what is American as thought
    of in the here and now. "
  created: '2005-05-26 10:55:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Imagine there's no countries... nothing to kill or die for...\r\n\r\nWhy
    do we have to attach the quality of nationalism onto something as innocent as
    a font design? \r\n\r\nStop waving your flag, America.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-26 11:49:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Interesting thread. National traits are always a bit elusive and with exceptions.
    Still, they are also, depending on the area of interest, palpable. Confucious
    said something like: show me the music and dance of a country, and I will tell
    you its character. \r\n\r\nNick's second post in this thread I think captured
    something in speaking of more showy or expressive line to attract attention.  \r\n\r\nAnd
    Vince Connaire's quote and comment is also on target in that Americans want warmth
    in the designs. That's why to me Goudy is always the quintessential American type
    designer, even though Benton and Dwiggins are in some aspects better.  \r\n\r\nOverall,
    I think there is more of a desire to make typefaces friendly - a general American
    trait - than in the more formal European ones. \r\n\r\nThis kind of difference
    doesn't show up just in America vs Europe. I saw an exhibition of the first European
    porcelain vases and the Chinese vases they were imitating. It was really striking
    how much more intimate the European designs were compared to the Chinese ones,
    which had a stiff, formal, Imperial perfection to them. \r\n\r\n>Stop waving your
    flag, America.\r\nOh, give it a rest, Nick. This is not about better or worse,
    just different. You do have a point, though, in that that type design is, and
    has always been more international than many other arts.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-26 13:09:56'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Can you define Europe? \r\n\r\nDefining Europe from the bottom up....\r\n\r\nfinal
    of Eurovison 2005 song contest: \r\n\r\n<strong>Position(1st place votes) Country\tScore</strong>\r\n1\tGreece
    (10)\t230\r\n2\tMalta (1)\t192\r\n3\tRomania (3)\t158\r\n4\tIsrael (1)\t154\t\r\n5\tLatvia
    (3)\t153\r\n6\tMoldova (2)\t148\r\n7\tSerbia & Montenegro (3)\t137\r\n8\tSwitzerland
    (2)\t128\r\n9\tDenmark (1)\t125\r\n9\tNorway (3)\t125\r\n11\tCroatia (2)\t115\r\n12\tHungary\t97\r\n13\tTurkey
    (2)\t92\r\n14\tBosnia & Herzegovina\t79\r\n15\tRussia (1)\t57\r\n16\tAlbania (1)\t53\r\n17\tFYR
    Macedonia\t52\r\n18\tCyprus (2)\t46\t\t\r\n18\tSweden\t30\r\n20\tUkraine (1)\t30\t\t\r\n21\tSpain
    (1)\t28\r\n22\tUnited Kingdom\t18\r\n23\tFrance\t11\r\n24\tGermany\t4\r\n\r\n(Israel?)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: "Vince,\r\n\r\nI love it!!!  Of course, my ancestors are from Greece :-)\r\n\"And
      the hits just keep on comin'\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
    created: '2005-05-26 15:19:22'
  created: '2005-05-26 15:09:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Can you define Europe?\r\n\r\nPoint taken. In my example of the porcelain,
    the European imitations of the Chinese originals were done in Meissen. So I was
    thinking of Northern Europe, and the formality of England, France and Germany,
    compared to the US. "
  created: '2005-05-26 16:24:33'
- author:
    name: knap
    picture: 110686
  body: Just two years spent in the US. But to me the essence of America is Franklin
    Gothic and Bell Gothic. Okay from URW suits this couple perfectly. I can already
    see the fantastic design of constructors company logo using these faces on glossy
    Mack truck cabin side door. Conservative and naive but strong and straight.
  created: '2005-05-26 19:41:21'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Well I am American too, altough I have never stepped in the US... \r\n\r\nI
    would say that all upper case sans serif grotesques -specially wide or condensed-
    are the most characteristic sign of the United States typography, but I dislike
    it. I'm sorry but sometimes I can\xB4t stand the uglyness of this style which
    seems to appear everywere: from electoral signs to signage to magazine advertising
    to business facades.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand I like very much the warmth of Californian
    FB but I really don\xB4t associate it with the United States, altough I do associate
    some of the Goudy's flourishes with it.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-05-26 20:36:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Whoops, I just saw Chad's waving flag. Is that what you were referring to
    Nick? Was it there before? I'm a proud American (except when I see you know who
    on the TV) but - too much Chad. Give it a rest. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-26 21:08:33'
- author:
    name: chadbrewer
  body: 'hehe nope - I added that after Nick''s comment.  No one was waving any flags;
    literally or figurativly.  '
  created: '2005-05-26 21:43:04'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "What an interesting thread! Wasn't it on this site that someone referred
    to Franklin Gothic as the American Helvetica?\r\n\r\nI recently made an exhibition
    about the 1923 Type Specimen Book & Catalogue from the American Type Founders
    (ATF). In the accompanying blurb I called it a \u2018sleeping giant\u2019 of early
    20th century typography, and went on to say \"Looking at what informs the design
    of these letters and pages, one can almost sense the American love affair with
    wide open spaces. The types (Bookman, Century, Cheltenham, Goudy, Souvenir) that
    perhaps best constitute \u2018the ATF style\u2019 are designed to be set wide;
    they have broad, bracketed serifs and generous proportions.\"\r\n\r\nIncidentally
    the show also included specimen settings of Pabst.\r\n\r\nThis of course, is not
    meant to be definitive; so much has changed since 1923. But some of the more recent
    types and what people are saying about them here, reflect those changes pretty
    well. No one typeface will ever define a nation, but I think it's possible to
    agree that some of (20th C) Americas greatest type designers had a stylistic commonality;
    Dwiggins, Goudy, TM Cleland and the Bentons all deserve to be mentioned in the
    same company here."
  created: '2005-05-30 02:31:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Joshua, while the typical Cherokee types show influences of Latin letterforms,
    it is important to note that Sequoya's original syllabics looked quite different
    from the types that were made (by non-Cherokees). His original design for the
    writing system was much more cursive and less Latinate.\r\n\r\nAll you Mac OS
    X users have a Cherokee font on your systems: <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/Plantagenet/plantagenet_index3.html\">Plantagenet
    Cherokee</a> designed by Ross Mills. Plantagenet references both Sequoya's original
    design as well as the typographic tradition, although obviously needing to meet
    readers' expectations. Most Cherokee types are degraded copies of a single early
    model, and Plantagenet, to my knowledge, is the first design to re-evaluate the
    typographic history of this script."
  created: '2005-05-30 07:46:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The Western movie and TV series are both past their heyday, but nonetheless
    still provide the dominant image of an American typographic past, the archetype.
    It is somewhat illusory, because although the myth of the Wild West is uniquely
    American, the lettering styles aren't. \r\n\r\nTypography (lettering, really)
    is front and centre as the protagonist rides into town, past the magnificently
    signified Bank, Saloon, Hotel, and General Store, before reaching the Sheriff's
    Office and the Wanted poster. This may be why 19th-century display types, or reworkings
    such as Clarendon or Americana, have the national resonance they do. "
  created: '2005-05-30 23:24:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I think \"what is the quitessential American typeface?\" is an interesting
    question but alas it is probably going to sit for eternity without an answer that
    even a 25% minority says \"ahh, yes, that is it.\"\r\n\r\nThe reasons for this
    are deep, I think. First of all, the typographic cross pollination between Europe
    and American has been intense since, oh about 1850. So there are a lot of types
    on both sides of the pond that've been deeply effected from the other side, e.g.
    Chelt and Times. Also: Americans commission many more fonts than anyone else,
    and have for decades, they'll buy and use types in ways that'd make other nationals
    cringe (see or hear Spiekermann), and thus, find new design styles through heavy
    use, misuse and other routes to discovery (see grunge)...whichis why we're \"here\"
    and they are all still \"there\".)\r\n\r\nThis's been aided and abbetted by American
    type companies, from the first Cambridge foundry to Linotype, ATF, ITC, then Adobe
    and into the modern-est era of HTF, FB and P22, US makers are and have historically
    been among the most active in the world. As users, our Gringos have short fashion
    cycles, big wallets and questionable tastes, so all these companies find clients
    galore.\r\n\r\nOne whole branch the always leaps out at me as \"American\" is
    typewriter faces. This example bundles a lot of what I've said above into a, perhaps,
    clear example. Before ITC Typewriter, no one thought of it; I mean we were just
    escaping the real typewriter and who'd be dumm enough to release a thing so odd
    as a \"designerly\" typeface based on such a hideous machine? The rest is history
    with the amazing popularity of that series.\r\n\r\nAnd then something happened
    that no one could have predicted and was totally American: (kind of like Bilbo
    finding the ring), computers needed monospaced fonts so software developers would
    only have to count characters, and since they all had the same width, you could
    write code that laid them out even if you were an idiot ( :o ). You could also
    read your code more easily if it was \"all lined up\" nice and neat, (I guess).
    So a new life sprung up for typewriter faces and again, the rest is history, though
    unfortunately, Courier is everywhere. \r\n\r\nLooping back to the point, type
    is so American that you can argue forever about Dwiggins, Benton, Stone, Frere-Jones,
    Chank!, without really getting a hold on the tail of the issue, which is that
    we're probably a sick society, but new type makes us feel much better, and that
    is really American. \r\n"
  created: '2005-06-01 15:58:18'
- author:
    name: Koski
  body: "Is Goudy Modern American in the sense that Walbaum, Bodoni and Didot are
    German, Italian and French?\r\n\r\n= David Randolph Koski ="
  created: '2005-06-02 00:06:16'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Monospace fonts surely predate computers, well except for Babbage, because
    they are also ideal for timetables.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-06-02 14:37:20'
- author:
    name: invertebrae
  body: "How about the works of <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/750/kbchanslerccrossgrovectwombly-designerfonts.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">Chansler, Crossgrove, and Twombly</a>?\r\n\r\ni'm surprised
    noone has gone here yet. rosewood? ponderosa? birch? zebrawood? pepperwood?. if
    we're in the american western, display, spirit of the times, clich\xE9 realm.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/7-474-7-12963/barbaralind.html\" target=\"_blank\">Barbara
    Lind's</a> works ring true to this era, with faces like madrone, cottonwood, wood
    type ornaments, and poplar. these might not be your \"prototypical great type
    designers of america's past,\" but the faces are inescapably distinctive to america
    i feel."
  created: '2005-06-03 18:48:34'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "I think that the kind of script represented by Dom Casual (Linotype); Murray
    Hill, Brody (Kingsley/ATF); Impress (Bitstream); Arab Brushstroke, Accent (URW)
    \u2014 is as American, as Fraktur is German."
  created: '2005-06-05 02:14:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I think that the kind of script represented by Dom Casual (Linotype); Murray
    Hill, Brody (Kingsley/ATF); Impress (Bitstream); Arab Brushstroke, Accent (URW)
    \u2014 is as American, as Fraktur is German.\"\r\n\r\nSo do I but I always thought
    they (Dom Casual & Murray Hill, etc.) cast a bad light on American type design.
    I hope this is not what we are remembered for. (I guess it is our sad legacy though,
    just as much as slavery, Viet Nam, and Iraq.)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-05 02:27:03'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Well, Chris, feel free to hate them. I don\u2019t. To me they look as respectable
    and credible as the typefaces created by the next wave in US typographic design
    \u2014 Lubalin et al."
  created: '2005-06-05 02:36:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maxim,\r\nI don't know why those faces are so unappealing to me. When I was
    a young designer in the early 1960s, I had a complete stack of large specimen
    cards from ATF.  Among them were Dom Casual and Murray Hill. I had seen the types
    used (perhaps overused) many times but seeing them there on those yellow ochre
    cards along with many other much better types really gave me a negative reaction.
    \ It is funny that a typeface can do that to a person.  I can't explain it.  Perhaps
    it was that they were wannabe showcard brush lettering and therefore don't seem
    honest to me. The contradiction is that several years later, upon seeing Herculanum,
    I fell in love with its forms even though they should have been subject to the
    same dishonest feelings I had for Dom Casual.  For some reason, I perceived a
    difference--and still do. I suppose type can really generate a visceral reaction
    one way or the other.  I quite like the look of Fractur for its own form and can
    easily dismiss the perceived association with Nazi history some people profess.
    For some reason though, I can't shake my early distaste for Dom and Murray.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-05 04:31:06'
- author:
    name: wing
  body: Why did I read Helvetica a few times? If anything, that makes me think German,
    Swiss, really most European design.
  created: '2005-06-05 04:51:46'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Naah, Helvetica is <em>much</em> more popular in the US than in Europe. Unlike
    Univers. For some mysterious reason, American designers never cared for Univers.
    I have no explanation for that. It\u2019s a fact, though."
  created: '2005-06-05 05:04:08'
- author:
    name: wing
  body: "Dude, when I see Swiss or German design, particularly from the 50's-70's,
    I rarely ever see a typeface other than Helvetica!\r\n\r\nAs for me, I'd say a
    face that looks very American to me is ITC's Garamond. Kind of ugly and brash
    and all American."
  created: '2005-06-05 06:54:13'
- author:
    name: wing
  body: And in fact, I'd say I see more average Europeans using Helvetica than their
    average American counterparts, who know nothing more than Arial. Rarely ever have
    I seen European people who call themselves graphic designers widely using Arial;
    it seems Americans on the other hand, even graphic design professionals sometimes,
    have *gasp* never even heard of Helvetica. It's a sad thing IMO.
  created: '2005-06-05 06:55:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"For some mysterious reason, American designers never cared for Univers\"\r\n\r\nSome
    of us American designers much prefer Univers to Helvetica.  The type studio in
    the design school I attended (Carnegie Mellon University) had numerous complete
    hot metal sets of all the Univers weights.  We had no Helvetica but some display
    sizes of AG. Other than Jack Stauffacher (there was lots of wood type), most typography
    professors were from either Basel or Ulm.\r\nI firmly believe that the popularity
    of Helvetica and Arial in the U.S. was do to their being bundled with software
    or laser printers.\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-05 18:44:26'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "Yes, I think you\u2019re right. I should have probably said, \u2018American
    <em>users</em>\u2019, not \u2018designers\u2019."
  created: '2005-06-05 18:53:10'
- author:
    name: John Miles
  body: Suprised no one's mentioned <a href=http://fontdiner.com/>Font Diner</a> yet;
    anything from them absolutely screams American for me.
  created: '2005-06-05 19:56:13'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: <em>Ya betcha!</em>
  children:
  - author:
      name: airey
    body: a lot of the fonts and treatments at http://www.letterheadfonts.com/ give
      me a strong 'american' feel also. i guess the similar styles to the baseball
      club logotypes do it mainly.
    created: '2005-06-07 09:36:11'
  created: '2005-06-05 20:27:22'
- author:
    name: jesper
    picture: 110732
  body: I think almost any font will feel american in a centered page layout. Decorating
    fonts with strange kerning, color, outlines and drop shadows also adds to the
    effect. It seems a lot of americans do not believe in flat, boring letters.
  created: '2005-06-10 17:26:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...It seems a lot of americans do not believe in flat, boring letters.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    is perhaps a function of the Desktop Publishing craze of a few years back fueled
    by the current tricks packed into MS Word.  I guess people feel compelled to use
    ALL the tricks just because they are there (no matter how garish).  The only tricks
    they surely will never use is buying an actual font.  It seems \"free\" is the
    American trendsetter in amateur typography. Some of us still love those flat,
    boring letters though :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-10 19:53:37'
- author:
    name: ktinkel
  body: "For text, Miller Text \u2014 even though it was designed by Matthew Carter,
    and based on Scotch Roman, both originating in the U.K.\r\n\r\nIt works very well
    with ITC Franklin Gothic for display, too. The whole effect is quintessentially
    American.\r\n\r\n\r\n--Kathleen"
  created: '2005-06-23 21:02:06'
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: "> <em>something as innocent as a font design</em>\r\nI agree: there are no
    national implications inherent to a type face. What we <em>are</em> discussing
    in this thread is common connotations, norms, stereotypes and perceptive customs
    that we tend to attach to type faces in discourse and while using type in praxis.\r\nThere
    are different approaches to lettering and design, though. These are more likely
    a result of traditions, \"schools\", and common conventions than nationality (although
    national -- and lingual -- borders are also borders for traditions, \"schools\"
    and conventions in typography). \r\nConclusion: When talking about the relative
    'Americanness' (or 'europeanness' or 'greekness' and so forth) of type design,
    do not forget that this quality is always a second order quality. \r\nThis is
    not about being politically correct but about trying to understand how 'type nationality'
    works and how we can handle the original question. That question already had part
    of my suggested clarification in it: <em>fonts that <strong>scream</strong> \u201CAmerican\u201D</em>
    -- the type face is expected to 'scream', i.e. take part in discourse itself and
    take a position there. \r\n"
  created: '2005-07-30 19:17:39'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: 'I''m just gonna have to second this display face: http://www.p22.com/sherwoodtype/plymouth.html
    because I''m from Plymouth, MA and I have ancestors that came over on the Mayflower.
    Never seen the face before though. Interesting thread!'
  created: '2005-07-30 19:30:53'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "How about\r\n\r\nFW Goudy: Deepdene, Kaatskill, Kennerley Oldstyle\r\nDwiggins:
    Electra\r\nGeorge Craw: Craw Clarendon\r\nOz Cooper: Cooper Book\r\n(and whoever
    did it: Curtis Post)\r\n\r\nJim\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-31 03:09:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there are no national implications inherent to a type face.\r\n\r\nHow
    do I counter thee - let me count the ways.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-31 03:45:12'
- author:
    name: Ted7
    picture: 111047
  body: "The discussion of a \u201Cnational\u201D feel a font may have is intriguing.
    No one seems to have mentioned Gill Sans as the quintessential font of modern
    Great Britain. Also, isn't Americana an obvious choice for an American font? How
    about Mistral for 1960s-era France? Or Caxton for Mexico (maybe that\u2019s a
    stretch)."
  created: '2005-10-11 07:13:15'
- author:
    name: Ted7
    picture: 111047
  body: Ted
  created: '2005-10-11 07:22:07'
- author:
    name: Ted7
    picture: 111047
  body: "The discussion of a \u201Cnational\u201D feel a font may have is intriguing.
    No one seems to have mentioned Gill Sans as the quintessential font of modern
    Great Britain. Also, isn\u2019t Americana an obvious choice for an American font?
    (I see Frutiger a lot, though.) How about Mistral for France? Or Caxton for Mexico
    (maybe that\u2019s a stretch)."
  created: '2005-10-11 07:23:35'
- author:
    name: Ted7
    picture: 111047
  body: "Okay, okay. How much more can I screw it up! \r\nSorry folks . . . this was
    my first post."
  created: '2005-10-11 07:26:44'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "I'm thinking about faces related to American art movements (or at least movements
    with very strong American voices)...\r\n\r\n<strong><em>Craft/Prairie/Bungalow</em></strong>\r\nFrank
    Lloyd Wright: <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/p22/eaglefeather/\" target=\"_blank\">Eaglefeather</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/p22/fllw-exhibition/\" target=\"_blank\">Exhibition</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/p22/fllw-terracotta/\" target=\"_blank\">Terracotta</a>\r\nRoycroft:
    <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/ihof/p22-arts-and-crafts/\" target=\"_blank\">P22
    Arts & Crafts</a>\r\nDard Hunter: <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/p22/arts-and-crafts-hunter/\"
    target=\"_blank\">Arts & Crafts Hunter</a>\r\nGreene & Greene: <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/arroyostyle/g-and-g/\"
    target=\"_blank\">G&G</a>\r\n\r\n<strong><em>Pop Art</em></strong>\r\nComics/Found
    objects: <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/products/p22/pop-art-cd/\" target=\"_blank\">P22
    Pop Art</a>\r\n\r\nAny other thoughts?\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-08-08 00:59:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I was wondering if there are any fonts that scream \u201CAmerican\u201D
    when you look at em. Fonts designed by Americans, used more by Americans - etc\"\r\n\r\nInterstate."
  created: '2006-09-06 12:57:57'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Late to the question, I know, but is a slow night.\r\n\r\nLove you americans,
    so sorry for the following insult.\r\nFont that screams American to me - Comic
    Sans!\r\nHate the font, but somehow seems typically american to me, Semi casual,
    found just about everywhere, overhyped, and either loved or hated by all. Even
    those who profess hatred of the font have most probably used it at some time,
    for some project.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 13:22:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I <cite>wish</cite> Comic Sans was limited to these shores! I've actually
    seen a photo of it used on the funeral wreath of a prominent Pakistani statesman.
    But maybe the fact that the wreath was a gift from India explains that...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-06 17:55:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Or maybe that the font comes bundled with the Windows OS?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-06 17:57:26'
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: "<em> >> there are no national implications inherent to a type face.\r\n>
    How do I counter thee - let me count the ways.</em>\r\n\r\nOk, bring them on!
    ;)\r\n\r\nI am quite sure, though, that all your counter arguments will have something
    to do with context (institutional, biographical, connotational, historical, conventional,
    etc.), not with <em>inherent</em> features of a type face. "
  created: '2006-09-15 12:35:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Context is indeed always present.\r\n2) Physical things (like humans,
    or the Causasus mountains) have inherent features, hence things we experience
    are processed through those inherent features.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-15 14:31:11'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "generally, i get more of an American vibe out of western fonts on \"Most
    Wanted\" posters than i do from fonts by Benton or Goudy. they may have made fonts
    with a decidedly American style, but their fonts are universally pliable. i can
    use Franklin Gothic in Europe without the design looking \"American\" in any way..
    it's much harder to look at/use a western-style font without thinking of the wild
    west in America.\r\n\r\ndid anyone mention H&FJ's <a href=\"http://www.typography.com/catalog/gotham/index.html\">Gotham</a>?
    it strikes me as very American (which it's history can attest to).\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-15 15:41:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think what Americans think of as American type is more broad than what
    might be thought accross the oceans.  Perhaps too much of what has been seen on
    foreign shores comes out of Hollywood--and that means a lot of weterns? Gotham,
    to me is a very American face and in much more versatile than western faces (and
    quite good as well!).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-15 15:58:39'
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: "<em> > 2) Physical things (like humans, or the Causasus mountains) have inherent
    features, hence things we experience are processed through those inherent features.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    apple is sweet, hence the apple has to be perceived as tasting sweet.\r\nGotham's
    'a' is double storey and has no serifs, hence what? \r\n\r\nA curve defined by
    4 points will never be intrinsically European."
  created: '2006-09-15 17:07:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " </em>2) Physical things (like humans, or the Causasus mountains) have inherent
    features</em>\r\n\r\nThe caucasus range is in one place. American genes come from
    all over the planet, and American geography varies hugely. Chauvinist philosophy
    could perhaps be used to contrast the cultural styles of discrete, isolated populations,
    but it doesn't work for a continental melting pot. However, lifestyle and diet
    (nurture, rather than nature) do have physical, national implications, but I'm
    not sure if that can be related to typestyle. But if it can, then Diner surely
    has his finger on the pulse!"
  created: '2006-09-15 17:13:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A curve defined by 4 points will never be intrinsically European.\r\n\r\nNo,
    but it can allude to things that are inherent to physical\r\nfeatures of Europe[ans]
    (not that defining Europe[an] is easy).\r\n\r\nNobody is isolated. Nonetheless,
    the melting pot is in your head(s).\r\nEvery location on this earth is different,
    although mostly it's so\r\nsubtle as to escape our conscious (but not subconscious)
    views.\r\nSubtle as in text font, not faddish display font...\r\n\r\nDon't fear
    our human reality because it makes you have to work/think harder.\r\nVenture out
    of your house, and get a nice, human sunburn.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-15 17:22:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>A curve ... can allude to things that are inherent to physical\r\nfeatures
    of Europe[ans]</em>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Assets/Depts/Essays/Punch/Page7.html\">The
    battle of the V's and W's?</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-15 22:32:36'
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: "</em>I did not deny context and the possibility for any thing to allude to
    something else. The intent was to differenciate between existing things and features
    we (thus perfectly fitting into cultural etc. norms, i.e. 'our human reality')
    ascribe to them. Just yesterday, as I sat scrubbing my skin because of my (well-deserved!)
    sunburn, I was really annoyed about this terrible European sun\u2026 \r\nThe question
    'I want to have a perfectly American typeface' may just be impossible to answer,
    whereas 'I want to have a typeface that will be recognised as having American
    features because of its origin, its history, its predecessors, or just because
    it was designed to fit into what may at a certain time be experienced or visually
    perceived as \"being American\"' can match a certain subset of the currently available
    type faces and styles. \r\nBut this may be a long question to ask, I admit.\r\nSo
    I guess Mr. Shinn and V/W make it to the next round ;)  "
  created: '2006-09-16 20:23:35'
date: '2005-05-23 05:28:46'
node_type: forum
title: Quintessential American font?

---
