---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "This font now has 2 editions, the one originally commisioned ( now being hinted
  a bit more) & an improved version with a bigger set of targets to hit. My focus
  is now the new version.\r\n\r\nThe original font was designed :\r\n\r\n- to be used
  in bitmap mode at 12pt on a pc ( on & off pixels only ) \r\n\r\nThe new design is
  meant to :\r\n\r\n- look okay in print\r\n- work as hited bitnmap ( on & off pixels
  only )\r\n- and work anti-aliased too ( with grey pixels created by rendering engines
  ).\r\n\r\nOriginally I tried to shape my glyphs around the target bitmap at 12pt
  for PC. But I found out eventually that I was constraining the glyph designs too
  heavily and creating problems for the bitmaps at larger & smaller sizes. This new
  font builds on my trial & error experience as well as my new understanding about
  why monospaced fonts have taken the shapes they have. The latest version does as
  better job rendering to screen in antialised mode & I think is less ugly when printed.\r\n\r\nThe
  latest GIF graphic is simulated PC 12, 24, & 48 pts.\r\n\r\nThe PDF shows 12 & 72
  pts. The 'in typophile' link below doesn't work. <a href=http://www.eyebytes.com/softdev.v3.1.pdf>This
  one does.</a>\r\n\r\nI have been using Lucida Sans Mono, Lucida Console, Consolas,
  Courier, Andale mono, Monox, Isonorm, Thordis Mono, Adaptive Mono & Mono 821 as
  references.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Quick comments.\r\n\r\n_f_ seems too wide\r\n_i_ fills up the word shape
    too much when it appears in the middle of a word. \r\n_m_ the middle stroke is
    too short. It also looks a little narrow\r\n_w_ seems too narrow. UC and lc.\r\n_J_
    seems too wide. Could be the tail.\r\n\r\nBeing that this is monospace, some of
    my critique could be useless. \r\n\r\nCould you set some more text with more caps
    in use so we can get a better sense of that as well?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ebensorkin
      picture: 109987
    body: "New images added to the original post. ( see above )\r\n\r\nNow when you
      reply it seems you can't post new images in the reply - and images are not inline
      anymore either. \r\n\r\nThe example images were created in photoshop using a
      96 dpi setting to simulate a PC screen. There is a little anialiasing that would
      not exist in a programming app - but I think the idea/impression given is mostly
      right.\r\n\r\nWho would you say is the monospace guru on typophile?\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2005-05-23 20:43:35'
  created: '2005-05-23 20:01:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't know if he's on Typophile, but de Groot is a mono grand master.\r\n\r\n(More
    soon...)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-23 21:04:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I think you have a good start. A few observations:\r\n\r\nYou need to use
    a bit more overshoot on the curves at the tops and bottoms of the rounded characters
    (A, C, G, O, Q, S, etc.). \r\n\r\nI would move the vertical stem of the f one
    \"pixel\" to the right. Same with the t.\r\n\r\nI agree with Tiffany about the
    m. I also think the top of it is looking clogged where the two strokes meet. You
    need to cut into it more like the bottom of the w.\r\n\r\nI would move the crossbar
    on the e up one \"pixel\". It seems out of step with the rhythm of the rest of
    the font.\r\n\r\nI think the A and R are a little too similar. The lower crossbar
    on the A helps, but it may be difficult to tell them apart in certain cases. You
    could do the top of the A like the bottom of the V. Or, you could put an angled
    tail on the R. Or both.\r\n\r\nCheck the top of the z. It seems like it's not
    quite up to the x-height.\r\n\r\nThe word spacing seems too wide. I would make
    it much narrower. (Just kidding.)"
  created: '2005-05-24 15:24:47'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "<strong>Harmonising shapes</strong>\r\n\r\nThe vertical parts of the bowls
    on b, d, etc are rounded, whereas the same parts on c, e, and o are straight.
    I think these shapes should be consistent. I prefer the rounded shapes; it humanises
    the design.\r\n\r\nI like the arches on h and n. Why not use the same on u (by
    rotating the n), instead of the smallcap style? This could help disambiguate u
    and v.\r\n\r\nSmall s and capital S have different arm styles. The closed style
    works on capital S, would it work on small s, or would the counters close up too
    much?\r\n\r\n<strong>Letter spacing and width</strong>\r\n\r\nThe letter spacing
    and width appear to be dictated by the lower case bowls and arches. I would say
    the spacing is tight for a monospace design. This creates problems with m and
    w, which would like to be wider, but cannot 'rob' any space either side. Also,
    the narrow letters like 'i' and 'l' cannot fill the space enough to blend with
    the tighter spaced 'normal' letters, so you get light patches.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    try loosening the spacing a bit. The words should not fall apart, because the
    word space is about twice what you would have in a proportional design.\r\n\r\nI
    think the cap height is the same as the ascent (I have not measured it). The caps
    would look less squashed if they were shorter. \r\n\r\n<strong>Punctuation and
    other disambiguation</strong>\r\n\r\nA programmer's font needs strong and unambiguous
    punctuation. The dots in your design are too light, I feel. The comma looks right.
    The different styles of brackets need to be clearly differentiated. The braces
    have a good shape, with a clear 'dink' in the middle. However, I would widen the
    braces and square brackets.\r\n\r\nI would lengthen the 'nose' on the figure 1,
    to disambiguate it from small l. My colleague wasted hours fixing some software
    which had both 'startl' and 'start1' in it, which appeared to be the same thing.\r\n\r\n<strong>Disclaimer</strong>\r\n\r\nI
    am not a professional type designer. I do it for fun. Please feel free to ignore
    everything I have said."
  created: '2005-05-25 11:43:03'
- author:
    name: David Brezina
    picture: 110588
  body: "Hello,\r\nI think:\r\n&lt; &gt; are so small\r\n&amp; should be more clear
    \u2014 I would suggest \"classical\" shape."
  created: '2005-05-25 15:24:49'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: Software developers should turn over to the dark side and start using proportional
    typefaces instead.
  created: '2005-05-28 16:56:16'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "Proportional spaced software text? I think not.\r\n\r\nThe characters in
    most software languages function in a different way to the same characters used
    to represent human languages. In software, each character has similar weight in
    terms of meaning. Grouping characters into words is just for human convenience.
    An error in a single character is not merely a typo: the software will not compile,
    or will malfunction. Conventional proportional spacing aids reading groups of
    characters as words. This does not help when reading software text, which very
    often needs to be read character by character.\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, a monospaced
    design is beneficial to character-by-character reading, and is therefore most
    suited to rendering software text.\r\n\r\nOn the topic of character-by-character
    reading, I have read of a psychological test (sorry, no ref), where monospace
    out-performed sans and serif proportional typefaces. As I recall, the test involved
    finding typos. Does this mean that writers (or at least proof-readers) should
    use monospace? \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-05-28 22:48:07'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: 'I concur: You don''t think.'
  created: '2005-05-29 17:42:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "<strong>Thanks for all the advice! </strong> - I haven't tried it all out
    yet, but I will this week. \r\n\r\n<strong>Re: monospace </strong>- I have asked
    about this over & over again, because I, like Segej, didn't grok why the monospace
    was used by programmers. The programmer who will be getting this font when it
    is done actually explained it to me best - despite english being a 2nd language.
    \r\n\r\nHe said that character count is important when scanning code. Monospace
    let's you find patterns in code faster - dissimilar or similar code for instance
    - than variable spacing. The thing is programmers are not reading for comprehension
    like we do. It's both more & less abstract than that. \r\n\r\n- More, because
    they are thinking in terms of how the lines interact \r\n\r\n- Less, because they
    are looking for small - sometimes single charcter changes in common kinds of code
    - not the bigger word sized changes we look for when we read a language.\r\n\r\nThat
    my understanding anyway.\r\n\r\n<strong>DeGroot</strong> - Has anybody seen anything
    written by Degroot on monospace? Has anybody talked with him about it or had a
    class?"
  created: '2005-05-31 01:33:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'In the book, <em>Now read this: The Microsoft Cleartype Font Collection</em>
    there is a chapter dedicated to de Groot''s <em>Consolas</em> which is his monospace
    sans serif for the Cleartype collection. Here is a <a href="http://www.poynter.org/resource/78683/consolas.gif">sample</a>
    courtesty of <a href="http://www.poynter.org/">PoynterOnline</a>.'
  created: '2005-05-31 22:04:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thankyou Tif!\r\n\r\n<a href=http://www.eyebytes.com/v13.pdf> - PDF -</a>\r\n\r\nHere
    is the current version of 'software developer' with many of the suggetions worked
    in. The biggest changes I made were in spacing & weight. I took Glyn's suggestion
    and there is a pixel's extra space between letters now. Reading about Mark Simonson's
    Type face <a href=http://www.ms-studio.com/FontSales/anonymous.html>'Anonymous'
    </a> in an article he kindly set me I decided that I had better reduce the weight
    of the face as a whole. I have brought some of the variation in weight I found
    in my lower case into the numbers and I will start looking at puctuation & additional
    characters next ... In the meantime - here is the update. Fire away!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-13 23:57:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "_w_ seems to be filling in still\r\n_j_ dot over seems to be too low\r\n_m_
    the curves are still odd to my eye. uneven. Next to the _n_ it looks even more
    odd, but this combination doesn't occur too often.\r\n_J_ base seems too wide\r\n_s_
    is falling backwards\r\n\r\nThe letters with a little stroke modulation look odd,
    but I can see it might be necessary. The W w and m seem out of place to me."
  created: '2005-06-14 00:15:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks for the observations! I think I can fix these. In the case of the
    w & m I might be able to steal an extra pixel for either side. It being monospaced
    I have struggled with the the m in particular.\r\n\r\nI wonder if a different
    shape maybe a simple arch with a mid leg - like the cap A but a vertical line
    not a horizontal one - might also be a solution.\r\n\r\nBTW - The stroke modulation
    isn't *needed* - i just thought it looked better than simpler shapes. I probably
    haven't got it right yet if it looks odd. What about the numbers? Do they look
    odd too. Any modulations in particular bug you? "
  created: '2005-06-14 00:46:14'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "The solution to the m problem is straightforward. The left half should work
    like a very narrow n. The right part should come off the first stroke in a way
    that looks visually about the same. The counter space for both parts should be
    identical, or nearly so. Right now you seem to be trying to make it symmetrical,
    with the cut in the middle centered on the width of the character. Here's what
    I mean:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.marksimonson.com/m.gif"
  created: '2005-06-14 02:38:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Awesome. Thank you!
  created: '2005-06-14 05:20:04'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Having a little perspective from the coder's side of things, Here are some
    things that are important to the utility of the font.\r\n\r\nYou need bigger punctuation,
    like, monstrous if possible. Seeing the difference between a colon and a semicolon
    is important, but not as important as seeing the difference between a colon and
    nothing. I recommend that the diameter of a dot be somewhere between 1.5 times
    and twice the width of a stroke. But leave the dots on i and j as they are; they
    should not distract someone who is looking for punctuation marks.\r\n\r\nIn some
    samples, your zero is reading as an eight. I suggest narrowing the mark in the
    center and making it taller.\r\n\r\nFrom a typography standpoint, example1.gif
    looks the most clean and impressive to me, whereas the pdf just looks awkward.
    So I think you should back off on the stroke modulation wherever you don't need
    it. b, d, p, q should look more like c, e, o, s do."
  created: '2005-06-14 18:12:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Cerulean: What about the ''a''?'
  children:
  - author:
      name: cerulean
      picture: 129904
    body: The 'a' looks all right. Maybe just a tiny bit heavy south-by-southwest.
      The 'y' is good too.
    created: '2005-06-14 22:57:32'
  created: '2005-06-14 20:18:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, sorry it took me so long to take a closer look at this. I just realized
    what you're trying to do: make an outline font that looks decent enlarged but
    renders out nice grayscale bitmaps, and is monospaced on top of it! You're really
    shooting very high with this - the balance of compromises will surely be a bear
    to keep your head wrapped around... Good luck!\r\n\r\nThe two main problems I
    see with your first effort on top (which you might or might not have fixed - it's
    not possible to really know from that PDF, without a bitmap rendering):\r\n1)
    Yes, make the interletter spacing two pixels.\r\n2) It's too fuzzy. Fixing this
    isn't just a matter of making the forms lighter, but also controlling better what
    partial-pixels they render out.\r\n\r\nAs I'm sure you realize, there's a limit
    to how nice you can make the outlines look, without sacrificing the -more important
    here- screen rendering. This is because outline fonts rely on <strong>continuity</strong>
    to conform to aesthetic expectations, while bitmap fonts rely on <strong>discontinuity</strong>
    to avoid blur. I guess if you simply manage to make the outlines non-disgusting
    (which you're doing fine) that would be enough; don't try to make your outlines
    conform to the conventional standards of print font quality.\r\n\r\nAs for the
    question you're having concerning Em/pixel-block proportions, I'm not sure where
    the issue is: as long as you choose a nominal point size that has an integer 75%
    value (to accomodate the \"native\" Windows dpi of 96) you should be OK. And a
    value of 8 (resulting in a pixel-block size of 125, in an Em of 1000) does that,
    plus it's sort of an informal standard in pixelfonts.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> Does
    this mean that writers (or at least proof-readers) should use monospace?\r\n\r\nIndeed,
    there's immersive reading, and then there's deliberative reading. For the former,
    an efficient, well-proportioned font helps; but for the latter -like when proofreading-
    those attributes actually hurt! Because you have to be forced to read inefficiently
    to be able to catch typos; in immersive reading your cognitive mechanisms are
    simply too clever.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-18 06:51:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Updated images\r\n\r\n<a href=http://www.eyebytes.com/example4.gif>Software
    Developer vs. Courier </a>\r\n<a href=http://www.eyebytes.com/examplecode.gif>example
    of C++ code</a>\r\n\r\nIf anybody has any comments on the current state I would
    love to hear them. BTW I did try increasing the space beween letters from 2 to
    3 pixels at 12 pt but I didn't like it. I am still working on my zero, S & s.
    They are not right yet & I know it. These examples don't show perfect pixel alignment
    but they do give a good idea about the current flavor of the font.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 06:40:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, those look blurrier than some of the stuff I saw before - is that normal?\r\n\r\nThree-pixel
    interletter spacing is too much at anything below like 18 pixels. Unless it's
    a really light and wide design or something. Two pixels is the gold standard for
    both one- and two-pixel weights at \"normal\" reading sizes (from like 11 pixels
    to 16), for designs of typical width. And one-pixel spacing is useful for very
    small sizes or where economy is much more important than readability.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 18:39:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "These examples are blurry for two reasons \r\n\r\n- OSX really like to blur
    - and these examples are taken from the Mail application which uses the adobe/apple
    quartz engine. \r\n- and because I scaled the font up recently & I have not got
    perfect grid fit again yet.\r\n\r\nI can turn off the antialiasing in OSX & this
    is what the examples look like:\r\n\r\n<a href=http://www.eyebytes.com/html/text2.gif>
    text no aliasing</a>\r\n<a href=http://www.eyebytes.com/html/code2.gif> code example
    no aliasing </a>\r\n\r\nIt will become crisper again oven with alaising but even
    then it will also look different in a Microsoft Programming tool ( very crisp
    indeed - no aliasing at small sizes) , on OSX ( aliasing on all the time) & still
    different from that in Photoshop( depending on render mode), Illustrator or Flash.\r\n\r\nStill,
    apart from looking at the fit, Any glyphs that jump out as problems? Any that
    seem good? Apart from the S & s I am noticing obvious problems with the k,b,zero,
    and I wanted my r to have a littile bite in it at the top.\r\n\r\nWhat about line
    spacing? \r\n\r\nI should also mention that part of goal for this font is to create
    a text field of code that *doesn't* shout with heavy puctuation. Hence the softer
    curly brace. \r\n\r\nI may still modift the &lt;  and the  &gt; \r\n\r\n-e."
  created: '2005-06-20 21:29:07'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: 'The C++ sample shows a real problem with ambiguity between ''u'' and ''v''
    in my opinion. I looked at some function/variable names, and had to deduce whether
    there was a ''u'' or ''v'' from the context. I would shorten the vertical ends
    to the strokes, and make the diagonals more vertical. '
  created: '2005-06-22 08:51:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, those two links of your aliased text samples are not working...\r\n\r\nThe
    one thing I would say at this point is this:\r\nYou have a lot of blur, for something
    that worries about the screen. Now, considering your particular design constraint
    -that the outline foundation be decent- that's arguably unavoidable. However,
    it does mean you can shoot for more letterform fidelity, less orthogonality. This
    ties in to Glyn's observation about the \"v\": there doesn't seem to be a reason
    to have flat sides like a \"u\" (since it's going to be blurry anyway), and there
    is reason for it not to have flat sides it (since you would want to avoid ambiguity).\r\n\r\nBTW,
    could you put a character set?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 22:03:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Here is the latest version pre-hinting. I am starting wonder if my grid is
    wrong again.\r\n\r\nBut this is where I am now.\r\n\r\n[ <a href=http://www.eyebytes.com/sample.gif>
    Link to Photoshop rendering </a> ]\r\n\r\nI am using a 2048 em grid ( MS apps
    is my target use) & 128 em units is my base pixel size which I thought would give
    me a match at 12 point... Oddly it's only the 10 pt that gets my curly brackets
    right when it's in non-antialiased mode...\r\n\r\nComments & advice please!"
  created: '2005-06-23 08:13:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A block size of 128 in an Em of 2048 yields a nominal point size of 16.\r\nI'd
    use a block size of 256, arriving at the pseudo-standard of 8 point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 17:26:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have a hinted version now. This set is shown at 12pt, & 24pt. I will post
    a 10pt & 14pt soon.\r\n\r\n<a href=http://www.eyebytes.com/squishcode/index.html>+
    hinted samples here +</a>\r\n\r\n\r\nPlease comment!"
  created: '2005-06-30 01:16:42'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "Wow, looking good.\r\n\r\nI'm a software developer myself, and I'm extremely
    picky about the font I use for coding. (I used <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/fonts/font.aspx?FID=11&FNAME=Andale%20Mono\">Andale
    Mono</a> for many years, and recently switched to a slightly tweaked version of
    Fabrizio Schiavi's <a href=\"http://www.fsd.it/fonts/pragma.htm\">Pragmata</a>.)
    I've been following the progress of your design with great interest.\r\n\r\nThe
    <em>w</em> and <em>W</em> seem to be a little problematic. The <em>A</em> also
    looks a little anemic. I'm not too sure that old-style figures are a good idea
    in this kind of font; that <em>0</em> looks a little odd in the context of actual
    code, for example.\r\n\r\nOn the whole, though, this is shaping up to be a font
    I would seriously consider using. Thanks for pouring the effort into this project;
    coders are a sadly neglected market when it comes to type."
  created: '2005-06-30 02:36:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Wow, Thats great. I do plan to offer it with & without oldstyle figures.
    That 'o' is probably my zero, The zero has a dot the o does not & the UC O has
    no dot either. A slash may be more prgmatic but it can be confused in danish &
    the dot gives a lighter impression. In general this font is quieter than other
    code oriented fonts especially in the brackets.\r\n\r\nAny other comments?"
  created: '2005-06-30 04:12:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So basically you've given up hinting-for-grayscale? You're not the first...
    :-/\r\n\r\nI think it looks good overall, especially in the 24. Consider making/hinting
    a 16 PPEM. BTW, when you choose point sizes to worry about, don't forget Windows!
    That's what most programmers use after all, and over there \"10 point\" for example
    is 13 PPEM.\r\n\r\nOne other thing: conventionally, the oldstyle \"4\" is descending.\r\n\r\n>
    A slash may be more prgmatic but it can be confused in danish\r\n\r\nYou could
    make it backslash direction. There's also the totally horizontal slash, but that
    can make the zero too much like an eight.  The dot can work, but it requires a
    counter of three (or five, or seven) pixels.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-30 05:48:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> hinting for greyscale\r\n\r\nNo, It's hinted. Auto-hinting plus extra hints
    to make it behave. The OS is only willing to show me a non anti-aliased rendering
    from 12 down. thats why 24 point is anti-aliased. Hinting is crazy but almost
    fun. I am almost, starting to sort of understand it, in a way. Actually, my hinting
    seems quite effective for bit maps but only just so effective for anti-aliased
    text at say 12pt. There at 12 pt it looks pretty wacky at times because of the
    hinting hoops I am jumping through to make the pure b/w bitmaps look good.\r\n\r\nI
    am glad you like the 24 pt. okay because thats what printouts should look like.\r\n\r\n>
    13ppem\r\n\r\nHmmm, I'd better look at the 13 again and tighten it up!\r\n\r\n>
    OStyle 4\r\n\r\nThe 4 is modeled on Degroot's figures. Still, that good to know.
    See them?\r\n\r\n<a href=http://www.lucasfonts.com>http://www.lucasfonts.com/</a>\r\n<a
    href=http://www.fontfabrik.com/fofafon4.html>http://www.fontfabrik.com/fofafon4.html
    </a>\r\n\r\n> The dot\r\nThe fellow I am doing this for likes the dot, maybe the
    one he doesn't want to use, Old Style figures (or not) will use the slash, heck
    maybe there could be a third version... It's just one glyph.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-30 07:11:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I added a sample at the top. It shows the font at 9pt at 96 dpi - equivalent
    to 12 point on the mac. This is the target rez. The example shows the font anialiased
    & as a bit map using photoshop as the rendering environment. I have been using
    the font as a default font in my web browser & I am starting really like it.
  created: '2005-06-30 10:07:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, I know it's hinted, just not for grayscale rendering (at text sizes)
    which is how I think you started. BTW, are you using delta-hints? \r\n\r\n> The
    OS is only willing to show me a non anti-aliased rendering from 12 down.\r\n\r\nMacOS?!
    That's strange, I thought everything was full-fuzz for the past few years, with
    hints ignored to boot. Maybe it's a cutoff setting in the OS? If so, what's the
    factory default?\r\n\r\n> The 4 is modeled on Degroot\u2019s figures.\r\n\r\n?\r\nI'm
    seeing a descending \"4\" chez de Groot...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-30 16:26:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> delta hints\r\n\r\nYes, They are *totally* needed if you care about the
    b/w bitmap especially with my redesigned 'Yy' & 'Xx'. My old ones would have behaved
    better but ...\r\n\r\nActually I found a new way to design for b/w that I wish
    I had known before. I only figured this out this week when I was hinting; you
    have to make many round trips between type 1 & tt hinting mode which means going
    from type 1 to tt outlines over & over (which bites) but you can move your points
    around & see what they are doing unhinted in multiple ppems. As it is my outlines
    are between 11 & 12 ppem which is maybe a good thing since they don't 'break'
    completely in either. Still, if I was doing this all over I would probably build
    some basic shapes going back & forth into tt & adjusting things for minimum hinting.
    As it was I did this for the percent symbol & it really paid off. That glyph would
    have been hell otherwise.\r\n\r\n> One other thing: conventionally, the oldstyle
    \u201C4\u201D is descending.\r\n\r\nOhhhh, I see. One more pixel down. Thanks!"
  created: '2005-06-30 16:44:29'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Eben, I think that this is looking really good. I concur that monospace was
    a great choice, especially given your target audience.\r\n\r\nI think that you
    punctuation is way to small. All of it, even the = sign. I'd pump up your marks.
    In code, they are just as important as letters/numbers.\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-30 17:15:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Dan, I could do this in two ways\r\n\r\n- I could pump up the punctuation,
    in the outline only so it pops better when antialiased & leave the hinted bitmaps
    witha period being one pixel & so on. That is what I think the programmer who
    asked for the font would want, or it was when I asked him last, he said he likes
    the light feeling of the font.\r\n\r\n- or I could make the period be 2 or 4 pixels
    or something similar. \r\n\r\nWhich one did you mean?"
  created: '2005-06-30 17:36:47'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I don't know, really. It was just a feeling that I had when I looked at your
    most recent images. How do they look with more pixels?\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-30 17:38:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Well I tried them with more pixels & I thought, well, not too bad but my
    pal said, ' I like it lighter - put it back to one pixel please'. So, for him
    anyway, it will have to stay lighter in one of the pixel versions anyway. I had
    tried a version where I made the period a verical 2 pixels which was okay until
    I looked at the colon ':'. \r\n\r\nThat form looked like the broken line glyph.
    So probably the alt version would have to be a 4 pixel which has been done for
    programmers before. So that could be done. It's a good idea for a variant!\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand making the outlines heavier & then making the bitmaps use the one
    pixel afterwards (using hinting) would make the type read better in anti-aliased
    form. I think you are right about the puctuation being a bit too light. The period
    & colon etc. \r\n\r\nI think the brackets seem okay - but, if I make a heavy punct
    version then maybe I will make the brackets heavier too. What do you think?"
  created: '2005-06-30 17:54:11'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I think that all of the punctuation should appear equally heavy.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-30 17:56:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Can someone educate me? Both of those samples - in sq9 - are the same typeface,
    right? One is hinted and one is not? I don't want to critique what I'm seeing
    until I understand exactly what I'm seeing.
  created: '2005-06-30 17:56:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Dan! \r\n\r\nSorry Tiff, some clarification.\r\n\r\n- The one on top
    is the anti-aliased version, this is the kind of thing designers are likely to
    see & increasingly we all use since OS preferences are using anti-aliasing at
    smaller & smaller sizes. (which BTW I intend to tighten slightly so the verticals
    align to grid & the text matchs in width more perfectly with the bottom one).
    \r\n\r\nThe way antialiased text looks will vary somewhat according to the OS
    being used, videocards & so on. This sample was rendered in Photoshop ( heavy
    style, one of 6 flavors) which renders differently than my web browser & which
    renders differently than Flash & so on. \r\n\r\n- The bottom one is the hinted
    black & white, or on & off pixels only, version. It's kind of old school, but
    this mode of rendering is the mode that programmers seem to like to program in
    the most. \r\n\r\nHrant, Actually I can turn anti-aliasing on from 6 pts on up.
    What I cannot seem to do is turn it off ( except in photoshop ) at sizes above
    12pt in OSX Jaguar. So I have some choice, just not complete choice. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-30 18:07:08'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "I like it, but its nice reading what programmers and developers themself
    would expect of such a typeface.. I think I looove the old style figures.. :)\r\n<em>(
    The only thing / character that slightly bothers me may be the lowercase 'w'..
    )</em>"
  created: '2005-06-30 18:20:19'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: "For what it's worth, I would also like to cast a vote in favor of heavier
    punctuation. The more I look at those single-pixel dots in the period, colon,
    and semicolon, the more I think that they could be deal-breakers for me.\r\n\r\nI
    do realize that expanding those dots to two or even four pixels would probably
    end up making the font look somewhat dishamonious; nevertheless, I think it would
    be the lesser of two evils, given the intended use. When coding, clarity is paramount.\r\n\r\nI
    think I should also clarify my earlier comment on the <em>0</em> (zero) looking
    \"odd\". It's not the dot that looks odd to me; the dot is a very good thing.
    Rather, it's the disconcertingly small size of the entire glyph. (\"Hmm... is
    that a zero? It looks awfully small to be a zero. What <em>is</em> that? Oh, I
    guess it must be a zero.\")\r\n\r\nIn programming, it is very common to see lines
    of the form:\r\n\r\n<code>x = 0;</code>\r\n\r\nThe <em>0</em> appears by itself,
    without any real context. Traditionally, when old-style figures are employed,
    they tend to be used in the context of prose, and more often than not, to represent
    multiple-digit numbers. This provides the context necessary to make the digits
    easy to identify. In code, single digits often appear without the benefit of that
    context, making it crucial that they be intrinsically easy to identify in isolation.
    I think old-style figures hinder that.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, in the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/system/files?file=sq9.gif\">example</a>
    you posted later, with the text setting, I think the old-style figures look great.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    you could offer your two versions of the font as follows: one with exaggerated
    dots and non-old-style figures (for use by coders), and one with the \"normal\"
    dots and old-style figures (for general-purpose use as a monospaced font)."
  created: '2005-06-30 21:39:31'
- author:
    name: Miguel Hernandez
    picture: 110435
  body: "Hi Eben,\r\n\r\nCongratulations for your Designs!\r\nThey look very clean
    and legible.\r\n\r\nBest,\r\n\r\nmh"
  created: '2005-07-04 19:33:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks! The latest news is that my friend has decided that he likes the slighly
    smaller caps & quieter look of my original bitmap design best for programing,
    & the new design for reading text - so I will be making 4 fonts available once
    they are finally tested. \r\n\r\n(1) The tall one shown here with the , (2) plus
    a version with stronger puctuation as requested, (3) The older shorter version
    with simpler & quieter forms, (4) The older version  with strong puctuation. I
    might keep sthe old style figures as well. I guess I will offer the old version
    in bitmap centric format & a smooth line hinted format too. So really, 8+ fonts
    total.\r\n\r\nAll the new versions will have a better underscore & a new ampersand.\r\n\r\nAnyway
    I hope to be wrapping this up soon.\r\n\r\nAny more programmers here? Want to
    get your feature requests in?\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2005-07-04 23:06:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I have added a link to a bunch of ampersand designs at the top. What do you
    think?
  created: '2005-07-05 00:49:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ampersands: to me #9 is clearly the best, if also very conventional. Or #6
    if you'd like to sacrifice some conventionality for slightly better spacing. In
    fact to improve the spacing, could you push the head one pixel to the right and
    still end up with something decent? Either way (and actually especially if you
    push the head rightward) you might also try an open-headed design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-05 05:40:15'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Yes, I think I agree. What do you mean by open headed? - I am intrigued.
    Is there a font that you can point to as an example? '
  created: '2005-07-05 07:53:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Mana!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-05 15:50:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I was just on your site - microfoundry.com, but I didn't see Mana there.
    \r\n\r\nfound this\r\nhttp://store.adobe.com/type/topics/theampersand.html\r\n\r\nAlso,
    interresting for my font is the fact that : In some computer programming languages,
    the & sign is often used to indicate logical AND. Many computer languages with
    syntax derived from C differentiate between: && for logical AND & for bitwise
    AND\r\n\r\nfrom http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ampersand\r\n\r\nIs 'open headed'
    a common description of a common feature or something you have invented?"
  created: '2005-07-05 17:14:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don't look at my site. Please.  :-\\\r\nYou can see Mana at http://www.ultrafonts.com\r\nClick
    on one of the Manas, hit \"Custom Sample\", and type it.\r\n\r\n\"Open-headed\"
    is not a common term I guess, but probably because you don't see many open-headed
    ampersands. So I guess it's \"invented\" (in the most lowly usage of the term)
    but I thought the meaning would  be clear: an ampersand with a hook for a head,
    sort of - the right side open.\r\n\r\nHey, wait! Just like your #8 - but with
    a conventional lower body.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-05 17:23:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Riiight. I see that now. This is food for thought...
  created: '2005-07-05 17:31:46'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I haved several new examples of ampersands posted now. I think 22 is maybe
    the best bet now. But I am open to arguement. (See the links at the top of the
    post)
  created: '2005-07-05 18:14:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Eben, I'm not a programmer ... but, I would prefer to see non-aliased type.
    This is one thing I actually do miss about OS9. \r\n\r\nWhile I can see the old-style
    figures as a nice _design_ feature I don't see how they could be useful to a programmer.
    I suppose you could have two different sets for tabular settings and paragraph
    settings both.\r\n\r\nThe para-setting which you've given is set very tight for
    the mono-word spacing. Is this typical for programmers? If it is am I wrong to
    ask if the word-spacing can be tightened up? That sounds wrong now that I've written
    it. If it is mono-space you shouldn't play with that. Can we see a setting that
    isn't so tight? I have a feeling that lining figures will still look better with
    this mono-space in a paragraph.\r\n\r\nHow much control do you have over the aliasing?\r\n\r\nDid
    you tighten the spacing up in your ampersand samples? Overall I'd say all of them
    need a pixel of space on both sides. 9 16 17 22 all strike me as possiblilities.
    9 seems the most logical. Hmm... 6 is good too.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-08 18:00:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hi Tiffany, \r\n\r\nThanks for the feedback!\r\n\r\nI should probably clarify
    about a couple of things. \r\n\r\nAliased or not is a decision made by the operating
    system and or the program you are running. The fonts I am making ( now there are
    two - kind of big & small) are meant to be used by programmers whose tools use
    the non-aliased rending of the font. That said the fonts can be used in an aliased
    fashion if you want- and my goal is to make them look as good as possible there
    once their core use ( on screen un-aliased )  is addressed. \r\n\r\nOriginally
    the forms were just blocks to correspond to pixels at a given point size but now
    they are smooth shapes - like Courier, or Lucida console - and I am using True
    Type hinting to try achive good results at sizes 9-16 or so. After 22 points the
    font is going to be aliased by the programmer tools/OS/video card anyway.\r\n\r\nThe
    spacing bewtween letters is an interesting issue. Having two pixels between letters
    when they get as small as my smaller font isn't practical at 12 pt - the space
    looks too huge and interferes with reading words and code. But eventually as the
    font scales up I have found it that having two pixels between at certain sizes
    makes sense.\r\n\r\nFor the bigger size I am using two pixels at 12pt ( one on
    each side ) but only at certain sizes because as the font shrinks it starts to
    need to consume one of the pixels in order to kep the forms legible. From 12 (2pixel)
    say to 9 (one pixel) this happens. At small sizes there are all kinds of trade-offs
    to make.\r\n\r\nThe Ampersand example is from the smaller font hence the tightness.\r\n\r\nI
    am convinced now that the lining figures may not be for everybody. So I will be
    making versions with & without. I have found that they are nice in texts but don't
    do much for coding... but that's a matter of taste.\r\n\r\nAs far as other kinds
    of control over aliasing - I suppose I could do what Hrant is doing & make a version
    that has individual pixel shades - but that doesn't suit my client's purpose,
    they want no aliasing & multiple pt sizes; so I won't be going that route with
    this font.  \r\n\r\nI did not tighten the spacing in the samples no. See above
    & you would not beleive how much people disagree about the Ampersands. Everbody
    likes a different one best! Twenty people & twenty different answers. I ended
    up going with 22 because it shrank to smaller sizes the best and was still fairly
    popular. The small gaps in the head 17 for instance are murder to hint as the
    font shrinks. The example I was showing is 12pt on a mac so you can see there
    are at least 2 smaller point sizes I was still targeting.\r\n\r\nBTW - On my powerbook
    running OSX I can go into System prefs & Appearance turn aliasing off from 12pt
    down to see what I am getting in this environment. You could do the same - It
    doesn't effect all of the OS & programs but it does have an impact. You might
    want to try it. Unless your not on OSX. I thought you were for some reason...\r\n\r\nI
    hope I have explained this well enough ... Let me know if any of this doesn't
    make sense."
  created: '2005-07-08 22:16:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "This font now has 2 editions, the one originally commisioned & an improved
    version with a bigger set of targets to hit. \r\n\r\nThe original font was designed
    :\r\n\r\n- to be used in bitmap mode at 12pt on a pc ( on & off pixels only )
    \r\n\r\nThe new design is meant to :\r\n\r\n- look okay in print\r\n- work as
    hited bitnmap ( on & off pixels only )\r\n- and work anti-aliased too ( with grey
    pixels created by rendering engines ).\r\n\r\nOriginally I tried to shape my glyphs
    around the target bitmap at 12pt for PC. But I found out eventually that I was
    constraining the glyph designs too heavily and creating problems for the bitmaps
    at larger & smaller sizes. This new font builds on my trial & error experience
    as well as my new understanding about why monospaced fonts have taken the shapes
    they have.\r\n\r\nThe latest graphic is at 12, 24, & 48 pts.\r\n\r\nA full character
    set will appear later."
  created: '2005-08-18 02:03:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The 'in typophile' PDF link at the top below doesn't work. <a href=http://www.eyebytes.com/softdev.v3.1.pdf>This
    one does.</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-18 20:53:22'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Eben, This is shaping up quite nicely. I think the short numbers are an improvement
    over your original old style ones. This is the same solution Frutiger came up
    with for OCR B way back when, and it still makes a lot of sense. \r\n\r\nThere
    a lot of spots here and there where your curves could be refined without affecting
    how it works at low res. For instance, look at the top and bottom of the \"O\".
    These curves should be symmetrical vertically as well as horizontally. Or the
    \"S\": The stroke should be evenly modulated as it snakes around. As it is, there
    are some abrupt changes in the curve, like the inside top left and the top of
    the middle of the stroke, and this causes it to modulate a bit unevenly. The ends
    of the strokes on the \"S\" and some of the other curved characters seem a bit
    too tapered.\r\n\r\nNow that you've got the basic shapes worked out, you should
    go through all the characters--especially the ones with curves--with an eye toward
    perfecting their shapes. Curves should flow evenly; symmetrical shapes should
    be <em>perfectly</em> symmetrical (taking into account optical effects as needed
    if they still don't look symmetrical).\r\n\r\nThe \"A\" seems a bit too wide--I
    measured it and it is wider than the \"U\". Perhaps that's intentional; if so,
    and it's noticeable, you've gone too far.\r\n\r\nI can see that you've made your
    horizontals thinner than the verticals, but in some of the characters (the \"I\"
    and the \"8\", for instance), the horizontals <em>look</em> heavier for some reason.
    You may need to cheat some of these thinner to compensate.\r\n\r\nThat should
    give you enough to chew on for a while. I know you've spent a lot of time on this,
    and I think you've made a lot of progress. It looks pretty good at text size.
    You've still got a ways to go, but it's mostly a matter of refining things now
    so that it also looks good close up."
  created: '2005-08-19 04:20:04'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: I like ampersand 3 best, the x-height one. It's classy. 22 is nice too.
  created: '2005-08-19 08:46:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Mark,\r\n\r\nThanks very much for the detailed crit! I have some questions
    still...\r\n\r\n> This is the same solution Frutiger came up with for OCR B way
    back when, and it still makes a lot of sense.\r\n\r\nI thgink I wouldn't mind
    making an altrenate font later with altrenate altrenate numbers but for my main
    purpose I think this is the better solution.\r\n\r\n> look at the top and bottom
    of the \u201CO\u201D. These curves should be symmetrical vertically as well as
    horizontally.\r\n\r\nI think I wanted to suggest the same kind of movement Luc(as)
    De Groot has in his monospaced fonts. I am probably just doing a poor job of it
    or doing it too subtly for it to seem deliberate. Have you seen the fonts I mean?
    If so, what do you think of that approach?\r\n\r\n> The stroke should be evenly
    modulated as it snakes around. As it is, there are some abrupt changes in the
    curve, like the inside top left and the top of the middle of the stroke, and this
    causes it to modulate a bit unevenly.\r\n\r\nAgain, I wanted to emulate other
    type but am not doing it well enough, for instance monoco or Lucida Console have
    this modulation... Do you not think it appropriate for this kind of font?\r\n\r\n>The
    ends of the strokes on the \u201CS\u201D and some of the other curved characters
    seem a bit too tapered.\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\n> The \u201CA\u201D seems a bit
    too wide\r\n\r\nNo, I just missed this.\r\n\r\n>  (the \u201CI\u201D and the \u201C8\u201D,
    for instance), the horizontals look heavier for some reason\r\n\r\nAgreed!  Thanks!\r\n\r\n>
    You\u2019ve still got a ways to go, but it\u2019s mostly a matter of refining
    things now so that it also looks good close up.\r\n\r\nThanks! \r\n\r\nI have
    started making the fixes you describe but would you have a look at the diagonal
    axis thing in the o ( & the pbdg etc.) , and the modulation? I would like to see
    what else you have to say about this before I change this aspect of the face.
    It would be much easier to make the face more DIN-like & symetrical but I thought
    the most successful monos I had seen were degroot's and I wanted to bring some
    of his influence into my design... Again, What do you think?\r\n\r\nI can send
    you some PDfs if you don't already have the references. I don't want to make you
    dig look things up!\r\n\r\nCerulean, Thanks! What do you think about the PDF?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-20 19:09:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Mark, here are some references for the modulation & the diagonal axis question.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontfabrik.com/fofafon4.html\r\n\r\n...and
    some screen capured letters from that page:\r\n\r\n<a href:http://www.eyebytes.com/on.gif>on</a>\r\n<a
    href:http://www.eyebytes.com/op.gif>Op</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-20 19:34:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Those links dont work....\r\n\r\nMaybe these will\r\n\r\nhttp://www.eyebytes.com/on.gif\r\nhttp://www.eyebytes.com/op.gif"
  created: '2005-08-20 19:36:54'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I see what you mean. But even in TheSans Mono there is perfect symmetry (or
    at least the appearance of it). It's just not 2-way mirror symmetry. Instead,
    it's got \"pinwheel\" symmetry--the kind of symmetry you see in a pinwheel, a
    swastika, or a yin-yang symbol. In your zero, for example, I see left/right mirror
    symmetry, but top/bottom asymmetry--sort of like Hobo.\r\n\r\nTrying to emulate
    De Groot--you've certainly set a high goal for yourself. The Dutch school is worthy
    of emulation, to be sure. However, I don't know that I would be the one to tell
    you how to do it. As much as I admire it, it's not my bag. Sort of like asking
    a blues musician how to write electronic dance music."
  created: '2005-08-23 03:13:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yes, it is a high standard that I am falling short of. And I am falling well
    short of it. Talk about hubris; I want to learn from them & see if Notan might
    have some role in monospaced fonts!\r\n\r\nI just have to keep at it. Maybe I
    can get there in time & with enogh looking & thinking. I doubt I will make it
    with this font. I haven't quite decided how far to take it in that direction anyway.
    I don't want to make a consolas-alike!\r\n\r\nI haven't seen the pinwheel symetry
    you are talking about yet. I'll have to look again! \r\n\r\nUnfortunately, that
    rendering engine issue I was on about in the other post is related in the sense
    that working out the issue had left my shapes are in more of a shables than I'd
    like. It was with the sense that I might have made some progress since last time
    & knowing that I had gotten in too far too it it all again that I posted my stuff
    again. \r\n\r\nHopefully the next post will be tighter, more tested & more pleasing.
    \r\n\r\nThanks for helping. I really appreciate it!"
  created: '2005-08-23 07:38:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Mark, by the way, how would you define your bag? Or would you? Why exclude
    the rigorous text face?
  created: '2005-08-23 07:39:50'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I didn't mean \"rigorous text\" face--that is a much broader category. I
    was talking about the Dutch school of type design, which I admire, but don't follow
    closely. I suppose some people might equate the two. I wouldn't.\r\n\r\nI guess
    what I mean by my \"bag\" is that I tend to work intuitively and not from a rational/analytical
    basis. I'm not saying one is better than the other. Different strokes for different
    folks, that's all. It's not that I don't have rules, but the rules I have are
    internalized to the point I'm not consciously aware of them most of the time.
    I just know what looks right. It's part of the reason I don't usually participate
    in these critiques, I suspect. Too \"left brain.\""
  created: '2005-08-23 18:35:46'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I guess was way too quick & imprecise when I wrote that. What I meant by
    rigourous wasn't 'thorough' or 'careful' or 'precise', but had instead to do with
    a aesthetic of looking stiff, analytic, deliberate, or rational. Proxima Nova
    is certainly plenty rigourous by the 1st standard but doesn't have the perceptable
    rational feeling I associate with a lot of dutch type. \r\n\r\nIf you don't mind,
    I'd like to ask you about two other things that I think relate in some ways to
    your work: \r\n\r\n- What do you think about 'Legato'? To me it seems to break
    with the dominant dutch direction in some ways. Do you agree? Do you think it
    relates to your design better than the other dutch type? Or at all?\r\n\r\n- At
    one point I was trying to convince Hrant that if the caligraphic quality found
    in dutch type could be married to a carefully made set of conditional substitutes
    in open type font, then an opportunity for a better interletter spacing or 'notan'
    \ could be reached - similar to what a latin caligrapher naturally would do. Or
    what arabic & chinese/japanese caligraphers do. What made me think about it was
    the way in which japanese/chinese charcters have to be written out. Each of the
    complex characters is made of an accumulation of simpler parts. A bit like a word
    is made with letters but arranged with more freedom of relative placement. When
    a kanji/character is written it is made *very* contextually. When I look at your
    logo work I see a lot of that contextual sensitivity. That is one of the things
    that deeply impressed me about your work. So far I don't think Hrant agrees with
    my 'more caligraphic' idea - for long texts anyway. I think that he thinks that
    the best inter letter spacing and legibility will be achived not by a bigger set
    of conditional shapes but instead by better 'notanic' design of the glyphs and
    the spaces between them. \r\n\r\nWhat Evert said was,\r\n\r\n\"FF Legato abandons
    the idea of a sanserif consisting of simple rigid forms. The mirrored image below
    shows how (different from typefaces like Gill Sans and Syntax) movement and direction
    is expressed by outer- and inner-forms behaving relatively independent, and is
    maintained through all weights. It makes characters refer to previous and next
    letters to build better words and lines.\"\r\n\r\nAnd also : \"Not only are arabic
    characters connected, their shape changes according to their context. \"\r\n\r\nBoth
    these quotes come from:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.evertbloemsma.nl/\r\n\r\nOkay, thats
    probably enough for one post.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-23 23:11:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have an update. Here are the images. They are on the 1st page too. \r\n\r\n<a
    href=http://www.eyebytes.com/softdevr6.gif>* at 12 point * </a>\r\n<br>\r\n<a
    href=http://www.eyebytes.com/r6bt.gif> * at 48 point * </a>\r\n\r\nI am trying
    to make it crispy at 12pt. The numbers are not tweaked yet. The Uppercase is slightly
    tweaked. This is how it renders on OSX. XP/Vista will be different. OSX turns
    out to be the most difficult to perfect so as soon as I am done with this I will
    make the TrueType b/w version. Then I will make a Cleartype version that should
    look alot like this on XP/Vista but at 10pt.\r\n\r\nAny comments? Thanks!"
  created: '2005-09-10 01:31:10'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nIt's looking really sharp at 12pt.  Very well done, almost looks
    like an ultra font.  I like the big x-height, and how the ascenders are taller
    than the cap height.  Dots inside the zeros are great.  The apostrophe is a little
    bit blurry.\r\n\r\nThe only letter that might be a little hard to read is the
    lc M.  But there's really nothing you can do about it when you have a monospaced
    alphabet.  I wonder how it'd look if you lowerered the right side a little bit
    (the second arc)?\r\n\r\nI just noticed that lc L, is pretty similar to uc I.
    The difference is more distinct in earlier versions. Also since the x-height is
    big, I'd be curious to see uc and lc C, S, U, X, and Z next to each other to see
    how easily you can tell them apart.\r\n\r\nSmall comments on the 48pt version,
    it'd be nice if lc T's leg looped upward a little bit, lc Y's stems connected
    a little bit higher, and if you could pull in the lc B's bowl at around 1-2 o'clock.\r\n\r\nI'm
    really impressed with what you've done so far.  So keep up the good work!"
  created: '2005-09-10 02:15:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Lauri, thanks for the crit! \r\n\r\nThe punctuation hasn't been optomized
    at all. It will get crisp like the rest soon. I came up with more extreme shapes
    to try to get two clear bites out of the top of the 'm'. I may need to revisit
    that again. I am not sure what you mean by the right side. Do you mean drop it
    down a pixel? I'll have to look at that lc 'L'. Maybe a more traditional monospace
    shape is needed... I'll post the next sample with some code & with successive
    placement eg Aa Bb etc.\r\n\r\nRe the 48 pt: I wanted to bring the tail of t up
    too but i thought it made it too blurry at 12 pt. I may put it back after I do
    some print testing... I'll look at the Y & B. I may need to keep the shapes if
    they blur out wsith changes. Still, sometimes things work that you would not have
    expected. The biggest trick in these shapes is the narrow joins on the leg of
    the r,n,h etc. Doing the join that way took out alot of blur! I am also considering
    having the shapes loose a little weight to cut blur as well. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-10 21:52:55'
date: '2005-05-23 19:43:39'
title: 'New font working title: ''Software Developer'''

---
