---
author:
  name: nepenthe
  picture: 109675
body: Trying to find information on this topic has been frustrating. What should I
  look for in a laser printer to produce the best results for text printed from PDFs
  on a Windows desktop? Is it a question of the driver? I.e., is there a difference
  between actual postscript drivers and postscript emulating ones? Does this matter
  to text quality or are there other factors involved? What is this business about
  faked 1200 dpi? Many questions, hopefully with simple answers. I'm basically looking
  at getting something to proof type designs on that will render the text better than
  the 600dpi ones at school. They have PS stickers on them but I find their output
  ain't so hot. Any guidance on this matter would be welcomed!
comments:
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: I should probably add that I already have an Epson color inkjet. It prints
    astonishing photos and text, but I haven't been using it because, between the
    paper and ink costs, I really cannot afford to use it for regular printing. I'm
    looking to laser for something that can print great text on regular paper and
    that doesn't need to have its $70 ink replaced every month.
  created: '2005-05-28 03:27:48'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hi\r\n\r\nI'm running an old HP LaserJet 5000N at 1200dpi, which I believe
    is not emulated. It's been very good for reproductions and has not missed a beat
    in the four or five years that I've had it. At the time of purchase I compared
    it to the Xante at 1200 and 2400 (emulated). There was a bit too much toner debris
    left around imaging on the latter to make it useful for camera ready (which is
    what I needed at the time).\r\n\r\nGerald"
  children:
  - author:
      name: nepenthe
      picture: 109675
    body: Thanks Gerald. I see it is possible to get one of these refurbished, unfortunately
      even these are about 3x more than my funds allow. Are HP laser printers generally
      quite good?
    created: '2005-05-28 04:58:46'
  created: '2005-05-28 03:41:26'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Well, I've always found them to be quite useful for my operations. Actually,
    thinking about it, never had anything other than an HP. I kind of like em. I think
    this last one, with duplexor, cost well over $3,000. But things have changed a
    bit, retail prices have dropped. Don't know what to tell you about buying a refurbished
    plastic anything. The little knob on my coffee maker broke off about a week ago.
    Had to heat up a little copper pin to insert it to hold. It's not like any of
    these manufacturers expect you to keep to this stuff for very long anymore. \r\n\r\nGerald"
  children:
  - author:
      name: nepenthe
      picture: 109675
    body: "This is true. Prices on printers as well as just about everything else
      have dropped dramatically, usually meaning better performance for less money.
      But it would seem that manufacturers also follow Gilette's philosphy that a
      product should perform excellently, but only for a short time. \r\n\r\nI found
      some favorable comments on the HP LaserJet 1320. Has anybody tried this printer?
      It is more within my price range and prints true 1200 x 1200 and has postscript
      emulation. There are colour lasers for the same price, but it doesn't sound
      as though they have very good quality output compared to this one."
    created: '2005-05-28 05:25:21'
  created: '2005-05-28 05:17:51'
- author:
    name: edeverett
    picture: 109635
  body: "I've just ordered a <a href=\"http://product.samsung.com/cgi-bin/nabc/product/b2c_product_detail.jsp?eUser=&prod_id=ML-2250%2fXAA&selTab=Size\">
    Samsung ML-2250</a>, which has 1200dpi and an emulated postscript. it ought to
    be arriving this afternoon.  I got it for about \xA380 (UK) which was about all
    I could afford.  I'll let you know how I get on with it.\r\n\r\nEd"
  children:
  - author:
      name: nepenthe
      picture: 109675
    body: Thanks Ed. I look forward to hearing your impressions.
    created: '2005-05-28 21:00:44'
  created: '2005-05-28 10:48:42'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Laser quality cannot be judged just by whether the printer has 'true' 1200
    dpi capability or not. The question isn't just can it do 1200 dpi, but how well
    it can do it. I have had HP product managers explain to me how their lower end
    printers (like the 1300s) simply don't put a dot on the paper as well as their
    higher end printers.\r\n\r\nLexmark and HP are the quality leaders, so it seems,
    but nobody, with these cheap printers, is making them as well as they did five
    or six years ago when they could charge so much more.\r\n\r\nToner quality is
    a big issue too, and everyone interested in quality should have a look at the
    higher end Xerox printers which I think have some proprietary toner advances.
    Tremendous advances have been made with solid toner, and Xerox may be ahead here,
    but liquid toner is still the best way to go - however, that is out of the question
    for consumer level laser printers. \r\n\r\nPS3 or emulation? It all depends. There
    are all kinds of things you can do to type, there are all kinds of ways you can
    deal with hints and dropout. Every rasterizer is going to do it slightly differently.
    Some will show true dropout on very fine lines, others will counteract dropout
    at any cost.\r\n\r\nTerribly important with pdf printing is rasterization speed.
    No matter how good the pdf looks, do you have time to wait 2 minutes for a complex
    page to rasterize when a printer with a more powerful or efficient rasterizer
    can output the pdf in 30 seconds? "
  children:
  - author:
      name: nepenthe
      picture: 109675
    body: "Bill: so in other words you don't think that any cheap 1200 dpi printer
      would be a worthwhile improvement over my school's higher end 600 dpi printers?
      \r\n\r\nAlso, I'm not sure what dropout is. Is that when a stroke is thinner
      than the device can print, and the rasterizer has to decide whether or not to
      print it?"
    created: '2005-05-28 21:17:31'
  created: '2005-05-28 21:04:10'
- author:
    name: edeverett
    picture: 109635
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nMy printer arrived, and I've had a chance to test it a little.
    \ This as I said above is about the cheapest 1200dpi laser print you can get.\r\n\r\nMy
    first impression is that the text output at 1200dpi is pretty good. Certainly
    good enough for me to test fonts at the moment (but I'm hardly an expert, so maybe
    I don't know what I'm missing).\r\n\r\nThere is certainly a big difference in
    quality between printing at 600 and 1200dpi. At 600dpi the type is lighter and
    there are noticable steps in slightly off-vertical edges. So I am glad I choose
    to pay a little more for 1200dpi.\r\n\r\nI have a page I printed in a university
    library at 1800dpi on a very large (and new-ish) printer that no-doubt cost a
    fortune.  Comparing the two, I would say that the text from the library printer
    is less clear. It is heavier, looking like it has too much toner, so the details
    seem smothered compared to the output of my printer - which looks quite crisp
    in comparison. I would guess this is someting that could be controlled by the
    driver, perhaps how the printer is setup has an affect on the output.\r\n\r\nSo,
    yeah, I'm happy with my new printer, the text is clear enough for me to see all
    but the smallest details (at 10pt and above at least). Some of the sharp corners
    do feel a little soft though.\r\n\r\n I'm sure that the output could be improved
    by useing better paper, and as I get more familiar with the (limited) driver settings
    - which is an advantage to owning your own printer.\r\n\r\nThis is all a bit subjective,
    and probably biased - it is my new toy. I would have added a scan to illustrate,
    but my scanner has decided not to focus... But I hope that that gives some sort
    of impression of what to expect.\r\n\r\nEd"
  created: '2005-05-28 22:59:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> At 600dpi the type is lighter\r\n\r\nThat's not normal. The way type is
    supposed to be\r\nrasterized, the higher the res the lighter the color.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    your results are due to emulation versus the real thing?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-29 08:14:51'
- author:
    name: edeverett
    picture: 109635
  body: "It isn't clear enough to judge print quality, but i've put together a image
    to show the weight difference between the two resolutions <a href=\"http://www.edeverett.co.uk/test.gif\"
    target=\"new\" title=\"ml-2250 test\">HERE</a>. The sample was printed at 10pt.\r\n\r\n(Can
    I upload images to the forum?)\r\n\r\nThere is quite a clear difference in weight
    dispite my scanner playing up. Look at the cross-bar on the 'e'. I don't know
    why or how it is <em>supposed</em> to print but thats what I'm seeing. I think
    it isn't dealing with thin lines so well at the lower resolution. maybe.\r\n\r\nEd\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: nepenthe
      picture: 109675
    body: "Ed, thanks for posting your comments and the images. The 1200dpi sample
      is clearly displaying greater weight, especially noticeable in th serifs and
      other thin parts. Although it's difficult to tell from the images, it seems
      like the 1200 dpi does better match the rendered text. I was thinking how useful
      it would be in printer reviews to have such samples available, instead of the
      review saying things like \"the more expensive one had sharper text, etc.\"
      which really isn't all that helpful. What I want to know is which renders the
      outlines more accurately, and this kind of example is perfect to show that.\r\n\r\nI
      made my own sample of how Marquet prints at my school at 600 dpi versus how
      it renders digitally at both 600 and 1200 dpi <a href=\"http://eventide.ca/typography/print-cmp.gif\">here</a>.
      You can see the printout is pretty bad, which is why I would like a better one.
      It seems like your Samsung actually does a pretty good job of staying true to
      the outlines.\r\n\r\nBTW, Ed, I love you paintings. Especially \"grey lanscape,
      pink trees\"."
    created: '2005-05-29 19:35:56'
  created: '2005-05-29 10:07:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm pretty sure that's not normal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-29 19:27:47'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "I would agree with Hrant that you should get a thinner, crisper image with
    higher resolution. There are a number of software options that allow you to control
    the imaging. Sometimes, its just a matter of making these adjustments. The look
    of the imaging will also change during the life duration of a toner cartridge
    as well as during repetition of the same image, say during editioning. I'm guessing
    that the library is not outputting at 1800dpi to conserve toner, which is also
    an option (and a good idea as cartridges for these high-end laser printers are
    not cheap). On my old HP 1200 dpi I can also output at 300 or 600, plus make toner
    saver adjustments if I don't need high-quality reproduction.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-05-29 21:44:58'
- author:
    name: edeverett
    picture: 109635
  body: "@ Nepenthe - Glad you liked my paintings, thanks. Thats the other reason
    I bought a laser printer, I need one to make my paintings.\r\n\r\nEd"
  created: '2005-05-30 16:41:24'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "\"1200dpi\" means less and less, it seems. If you can chase down detailed
    specs, always check the toner particle size. 600dpi toner blobs spaced at 1200dpi
    granularity will still look thicker, and it's the spacing granularity that the
    printer specs list as the dpi.\r\n\r\nPlacement tolerances also vary. You will
    always get crisper definition from a 1200dpi filmsetter than from a 1200dpi chocolate
    melter."
  created: '2005-05-30 21:25:06'
- author:
    name: printninja
  body: "We use an HP Laserjet 5000N, and it has performed almost flawlessly for over
    four years.  It achieves 1200 dpi by halving the engine speed, so I suspect it
    is only 1200 dpi in the verticle, and not the horizontal.  In any case, it is
    easily the best, clearest, and most consistent printer we've ever used.  We run
    all kinds of material through this unit, from plain paper & cardstock, to vellum
    and acetate.  I have always found HP printers to be superior to other brands,
    and even in this age of \"disposability\", the HPs are still workhorses.  The
    modular design means most parts can be replaced without having to ditch the whole
    printer.  I have friends who've accidently jammed stuff through the fuser assembly,
    and have subsequently replaced the fuser and returned to perfect quality.  Because
    HP's use disposable imaging units, every time you change the toner cartridge,
    you are effectively getting a brand new printer.  They also sell a \"tune-up\"
    kit for this model, which contains some of the other parts that affect quality,
    such as the transfer roller.  My only complaint is that after about 3 years, it
    started to grab multiple sheets from the draws.  I put in new pick-up rollers,
    etc, and that stopped the problem in the draw (manual feed still tends to grab
    multiple sheets.)  I could probably screw around with the pads, etc, and fix this,
    but who has the time.\r\n\r\nAnother nice thing is that because HP's cost more,
    there is a repair infrastructure in place.  You can get HP technicians to do on-site
    service (if you can't do this yourself.) I know people who have HP printers that
    are well over 20 years old, and they're still going strong.\r\n\r\nONE WORD OF
    CAUTION... the HP Laserjet 5000 is NOT a true postscript device.  It is a postscript
    \"emulator\", and that means that it can occasionally choke on certain files,
    simply because it doesn't follow the postscript rules.  Over the years, I've had
    problems printing gradiant from certain versions of Illustrator on the PC, although
    these problems have diminished greatly with the advent of Windows XP.  I believe
    now that all the Adobe products adjust line screen from within the software, as
    opposed to through the printer driver, this problem is no longer an issue.  Windows
    users note... I do not think HP supports this printer with an XP driver.  You
    are stuck using whatever is on the XP install disk.\r\n\r\nHope this helps"
  created: '2005-05-31 14:48:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "With regards to Nepenthe's results, there is one circumstance in which I
    believe it would be normal to see the 600 dpi being lighter in weight than the
    1200 dpi: if his device is using a (rather rare) \"write-white\" engine instead
    of a \"write-black\" engine.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-06-01 04:45:55'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "I saw at a local store that there is currently a substantial rebate on the
    HP LJ 1320. I will therefore use this opportunity to take advantage of the store's
    30-day return policy to test the quality of this printer. If I thin its worth
    it, I'll keep it.\r\n\r\nI notice that it is possible to buy 5000n's online for
    less than $1K US now, but unfortunately it is still out of my price range. Too
    bad, because it seems to be one of the most beloved printers ever. I would be
    very happy, though, if one of you owners of this machine can post scans from its
    printout so the rest of us can have a reference point for comparison. (Of course,
    you'll need to be able to scan it at 1200ppi in order for the results to be relevant.)
    I will post the results of scans from the 1320 and we can compare them to Ed's
    2250 and (hopefully) the 5000n. "
  created: '2005-06-01 06:36:57'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "I got my hp 1320 and am very happy with it. Black printouts looks great,
    especially at its best quality setting. (Plus it duplexes!) Here is a comparison
    with my school's library printer, which seems to be particularly bad even for
    a 600 dpi printer. (BTW, the paper is the same on both printouts)\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://eventide.ca/typography/print-cmp.gif\"
    target=\"marquet\">The scanned comparison</a>\r\n\r\nI would still like to see
    a scan of the 5000n printout, if anyone out there wants to offer one."
  created: '2005-06-03 20:57:43'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "http://www.atypi.org/05_Petersburg/20_main_program/view_presentation_html?presentid=503\r\n\r\ni
    thought Jose had made this available as a .pdf file, but I can't seem to find
    it online..."
  created: '2008-10-23 14:34:45'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "There used to be a difference in text reproduction on Canon-based laser printers
    and Xerox-based laser printers.\r\n\r\nThe Canon-based laser printers used a write-black
    technology, and produced even small sizes of text accurately, while the Xerox-based
    laser printers used a write-white technology, which produced large graphic images
    better, but small text poorly.\r\n\r\nDo I have it right?\r\n\r\nToday, I believe
    only the write-black technology is common, and very few laser printer makers use
    the write-white technology.\r\n\r\nAlso, laser printers employed different technologies
    in its light reproduction, I believe. Some used LEDs and others did not. The advantage
    of LEDs were that there were fewer parts to break and were cheaper to make (and
    hence cost less), but had more replaceable parts. I believe Samsung used LEDs,
    but Canon-based engines did not.\r\n\r\nI used many generations of Canon-based
    laser printers from Apple or HP for a few decades, with ease of use and fine quality
    printing."
  created: '2008-10-23 14:51:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nLet me know if you find Jose's pdf anywhere. I am in need of something
    better than my current 600dpi HP 2300.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-23 18:03:26'
- author:
    name: kolber
    picture: 116076
  body: "Does anyone know how the hp 5000 series compare with their newer models?\r\nAlso,
    any issues with running them on a mac network?"
  created: '2008-10-25 15:00:32'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Re running printers made mostly for the Windows market on Mac networks, the
    answer is that by and large, Mac networking is so superior that unless you are
    a genius, most printers will only network easily on a Mac. On a shared network
    I often have to print to the 'printer on the Mac' because both XP and Vista lose
    track of the printer while Mac OS never, never does. I too would really like to
    know what Jose has to say because even the best laser printer output can be pretty
    delusive. This is a really important issue for type designers -- perhaps the most
    important, and I am so glad that someone is spending some time researching it.
    Printer manufacturers seem to have given up on really competing with one another
    on laser quality. This is such a pity, as that competition was driving colossal
    improvements around ten to fifteen years ago. \r\n\r\nOne thing I do know: fresh,
    high quality toner is important, and expensive as it is, if you are proofing type,
    you should probably throw away the cartridges when they are only half used. The
    reason is that the smaller particles get used up faster than the larger particles
    -- or so I have always been told.\r\n\r\nAlso avoid a mistake I made -- trying
    to save by getting 'original manufacturer' toner on eBay. The package may look
    unopened, there may be all kinds of convincing shrink wrapping - - but for some
    reason, the toner is never any good. I do think dry toner has a limited lifetime.
    \r\n\r\nBecause I used to be an expert on quality lasers, people are always asking
    me for advice, but I honestly don't know what's going on right now. We need to
    develop tests for quality and consistency -- something like what the wonderful
    Ray Sonera has done for monitors over at www.displaymate.com. Without Ray monitors
    truly would not be as good today as they are, because Ray provided the tools the
    magazines needed to rate monitors properly. We must get something like this for
    printers!\r\n\r\nThat said, Lino in Frankfurt gave up on imagesetter proofs quite
    some time ago -- bad! -- and they use HP midrange (NOT the cheap ones!) lasers.
    I believe Adobe, when they are not using imagesetter output, use the same type
    of laser. This would seem to indicate that the HPs are satisfactory. I always
    used to think Lexmark had slightly better quality but I don't know if this is
    still true.\r\n\r\nPaper quality is also most important !!!!! I used to pay a
    lot for a slightly glossy Hammerhill paper that was supposed to give the best
    results. \r\n\r\nIt can all add up - - a good laser, not using the toner for proofing
    when it's about half gone, and special paper. But it's a lot cheaper than imagesetter
    output, and it has to be basic equipment for any type designer. "
  created: '2008-10-25 17:54:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This would seem to indicate that the HPs are satisfactory.\r\n\r\nMore
    than satisfactory, I think it's a matter of appropriate: you proof in the medium
    that your fonts are most likely to be used. Depending on the font's intent that
    could be an imagesetter*, or a low-end laser... or the screen!\r\n\r\n* Which
    however can still be misleading since the repro is never as good as the proofs.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, for the Vista CT fonts I assume they didn't rely too much on imagesetter
    output - otherwise the fonts would look too dark on lasers (and who-knows-how
    on-screen).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-25 18:27:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It depends on the market for your type. Most folks who are happy to output
    to the typical office or home laserprinter don't buy fonts. They either get bundled
    fonts or \"gift\" fonts from friends or coworkers. The people who actively buy
    fonts are more likely to use high-end output. The folks who buy fonts for screen
    use are not much concerned about printer output. That leaves the people who care
    about decent laser output. Who are they? Corporate design and PR folks who want
    to make a professional presentation to a small group quickly? I don't know, there
    may be others. There is a small group of type designers and graphic designers
    out there who care and have a burning need but the money on return to laser manufacturers
    is small for this bunch. That is perhaps why 2400 dpi lasers  go for $4,000.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-25 19:11:29'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Chris, who is making 2400 dpi lasers now? And are any of them actual true,
    native, 2400 dpi engines? I tested several ''2400'' dpi lasers in the mid-90s
    but they were all clever variations on re-calibrate the stepper motor or whatever.
    Rumor had it that there was a true 2400 dpi Fuji engine but I never saw it. As
    far as I can tell, Xante seems to have dropped their line. '
  created: '2008-10-26 22:44:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Xante seems to have dropped their line\"\r\n\r\nXante was the one I was
    talking about. I didn't know they dumped it :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-10-27 00:17:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It would be a shame if there were no 2400dpi lasers any more, since their
    quality (presumably affected by some small toner gain) might be the most realistic
    in terms of what offset repro ends up looking like.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-10-27 01:11:41'
date: '2005-05-28 03:18:48'
title: Best laser printer for text?

---
