---
author:
  name: Miguel Hernandez
  picture: 110435
body: "Hi everybody,\r\n\r\nOnce i heard about Gerard Unger\xB4s Chair and it\xB4s
  comfort to spend hours in design development.\r\nI don\xB4t know if it\xB4s a common
  matter of discuss but i think it is. Do you think the same?\r\n\r\nI like one chair
  in particular, well 2: The Egg and the Swan (Arne Jacobsen) but i can\xB4t afford
  them since they are very expensive (us$5.000 and up). They look both comfortable
  and with style. I dont know much about chair design but maybe there are a way to
  build them cheaper. I ask to a locar industrial designer here and he told me that
  those chair patents where finished..that\xB4s pretty interesting if i find a model
  as a guide to build.\r\n\r\nMaybe some of you love comfortable modernist furniture
  too but the price its always unable to afford. On internet i only fond this sold
  out book: http://www.digmodern.com/go/book/4079\r\n\r\nAnyone know where i can find
  something more?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "I used to spend a lot of my time in an imitation <a href=\"http://www.designaddict.com/design_index/index.cfm/fuseaction/designer_show_one/designer_id/63/index.cfm\">Eames</a>
    lounge with my PowerBook in lap. Currently I'm on my new <a href=\"http://www.eq3.com/cat-eq3/30028-06.html\">Crush
    Chaise</a> built by EQ3, with the PowerBook on their handy adjustable <a href=\"http://www.eq3.com/cat-eq3/3020-032.html\">Boomerang
    table</a>. I can work this way for hours. Comfy alternative to a desk.\r\n\r\nRelated:
    I've started a <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/groups/mid-century/\">Mid-Century
    Modern group</a> on Flickr and it's growing nicely. I try to post interesting
    deals I find on craigslist and eBay, but I guess that's not very useful to you
    down in Chile. Hmm."
  created: '2005-05-28 22:45:16'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Reminds me of the <a href="http://images.google.com/imgres?imgurl=http://www.allesoverballen.com/images/stoel2.jpg&imgrefurl=http://www.allesoverballen.com/engels/BALSTOEL.html&h=296&w=247&sz=14&tbnid=EywA_QQZ2MUJ:&tbnh=110&tbnw=92&hl=en&start=1&prev=/images%3Fq%3Dchair%2B%2522men%2Bin%2Bblack%2522%26hl%3Den%26lr%3D%26client%3Dsafari%26rls%3Den%26sa%3DG"><em>Men
    in Black</em> chair</a>. =)
  created: '2005-05-28 23:06:38'
- author:
    name: chadbrewer
  body: '<a href="http://www.americanstandard-us.com/trade/article_files/Champion%20One%20Piece%20Toilet.JPG">This
    is the chair </a> where I''m usually sitting when my best ideas come. '
  created: '2005-05-29 01:23:49'
- author:
    name: armin
    picture: 110197
  body: Maybe too obvious, but I haven't seen a butt not like one of <a href="http://www.hermanmiller.com/CDA/SSA/Product/0,,a10-c440-p8,00.html">these</a>.
  created: '2005-05-29 02:10:49'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm hooked on the <A HREF=\"http://www.hermanmiller.com/CDA/SSA/Product/0,1592,a10-c440-p8,00.html\">Herman
    Miller Aeron chair</A>. Adobe is kind enough to supply these for all employees,
    and they are truly wonderful.\r\n\r\nI have occasional lower back problems from
    an accident many years ago. Not only have I had far fewer back problems since
    I started using the Aeron (despite having gained weight during that time), I also
    find that when I am having back discomfort, sitting in the Aeron is the best thing
    I can do - even better than lying down. A couple of years after I started at Adobe
    I had a recurrence of back trouble, so I went out and bought one for home as well.
    Since then my back has been almost trouble-free.\r\n\r\nAerons are expensive (I
    see them at $400-500 used, $550-800 new), but if you can scrounge the money, they're
    worth every penny. They have a 12-year warranty as well.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-05-29 04:37:08'
- author:
    name: mike gastin
    picture: 110273
  body: "\r\nI sit in the Aeron all day - great chair.\r\n\r\n--\r\nMike"
  created: '2005-05-29 12:54:42'
- author:
    name: LogoMotives
    picture: 110231
  body: "As I work at a desk where I sometimes stand I use a <a href=http://www.bodybilt.com/?module=product&action=view_category&id=11>ergoGenesis</a>
    stool. It's help cut my chiropractor visits to just a few times a year.  Their
    desk chairs are very comfortable, too.\r\n\r\nJeff Fisher :: Engineer of Creative
    Identity\r\n<a href=http://www.jfisherlogomotives.com>Jeff Fisher LogoMotives</a>\r\n\r\nAuthor:
    <a href=http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/1581804806/ref=ase_jefffisherlog-20/103-9746903-7811817?v=glance&s=books>Savvy
    Designer's Guide to Success</a> from HOW Design Books"
  created: '2005-05-29 15:36:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Herman Miller Aeron chair is my savior as an old geezer.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-05-30 00:35:32'
- author:
    name: gavin
    picture: 110086
  body: "Aeron, best chair around, had mine for years now and still as good as ever.
    Great investment.\r\n\r\nNow if I could only afford a nice new Apple 23\u2018\u2018
    Cinema Display\u2026 \r\nmy butts happy but my eyes are cross(ed)\u2026"
  created: '2005-05-30 11:28:52'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I sit on a Eames chair, made by Vitra. Polished aluminum, black leather,
    coasters. Expensive, I know... but I lucked out a few years ago when Vitra opened
    it's new show room in my country and they had a 2-for-1 sale for one day...\r\nBut
    I digress: on last years visit to New York I discovered a shop where they sold
    \"replica's\" that were a lot cheaper. The owner of the shop explained to me that
    he used the \"Seven Changes Method\" eg his replica's (he did a lot of those classics...)
    differ in at least 7 details from the original and thereby don't impede on existing
    copyrights and patents (so he said, please don't shoot the messenger).\r\nA nice
    replica could be your solution..."
  created: '2005-05-30 16:06:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: My wife bought an Aeron chair a few years ag. I sat in it for about fifteen
    minutes and then went out and bought my own.
  created: '2005-05-30 16:49:05'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: Aeron, I'm another who's back it has saved.
  created: '2005-05-31 18:16:51'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'What about great design furniture for short people? '
  created: '2005-06-01 00:41:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Ack, sent to soon. \r\n\r\nI sit at a desk that is too high in a chair that
    is too large with a foot rest. :^/ Quite a bizarre situation for me. I'm sure
    my posture is paleolithic because of this."
  created: '2005-06-01 00:42:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Akira Kobayashi works standing up.
  created: '2005-06-01 00:46:21'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Interesting, John. Does he have one of those soft foot pads that grocery store
    checkers use?
  created: '2005-06-01 02:32:28'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "An interesting book for those interested in thinking through this question
    with more than anecdotal evidence from friends and colleagues (though that info
    is pretty important) is Galen Cranz's <em>The Chair: Rethinking Culture, Body,
    and Design</em> (Norton, 1998/paper, 2000).\r\n\r\nCranz makes a point of showing
    the utter uselessness and even harmfulness of many of the \"designed\" chairs
    (think Bauhaus, Eames, etc.), and the bad consequences of designing general office
    furniture for uses other than allowing us to assume a healthy posture while we
    do stationary work. Almost invariably the furniture in an office reflects and
    reinforces our (in America, anyway) nearly Puritan prejudices about what it means
    to be and look \"at work.\" (Hmm . . . it seems I've heard many on this site make
    many similar comments about typefaces that reflect concerns about idealized or
    preconceived notions of beauty, balance and symmetry, contrast, and so on, rather
    than legibility and readability. Rotis, anyone?) One irony I remember from the
    book: the typical \"executive\" chair is more poorly designed than the typical
    \"task\" or secretarial chair.\r\n\r\nCranz also discusses how what is \"comfortable\"
    for many, perhaps most people seems instead to be what we <em>imagine</em> to
    be comfortable, what we \"know\" to be comfortable prior to or regardless of our
    experience (cushiness, low back supports, curved spaces for buttocks, and so on).
    It turns out a lot of that is mythology (though different people have different
    bodies, and there are exceptions to practically everything you can say about ergonomics
    and healthy bodies).\r\n\r\nFor what it's worth--and not to naysay those who have
    testified on behalf of Hermann Miller here--Cranz thinks the Aeron is about as
    good as it gets for a chair of its type, but it still perches the sitter with
    her legs and torso at 90 degrees. About 135 degrees is a better position, she
    echoes physiognomists in concluding, and when the torso is upright with the legs
    at that angle, the muscles at the front and back of the abdomen can work together
    to hold the sitter up. (Of course, you also need a high and inclined work surface
    before you, too, so as not to have to pull your head and shoulders down to your
    work. I have yet to figure out how to combine that with a computer.)\r\n\r\nAgain
    for what it's worth, she has many good things to say about Peter Opsvik's designs,
    most notably the balans Variable--the original with the rocking base, not the
    cheap flat-bottomed knockoffs. (You can see and lust after the whole dearly-priced
    Opsvik ouevre at Opsvik's website, http://www.opsvik.no/index.asp?page=home&ver=6.)
    My partner (a yoga teacher) and I are in the process of testing her ideas; I've
    just managed to pick up a pair of Variables (thank you, eBay!) for about 2/3rds
    of their normal $320 (each) price tags. \r\n\r\nFair warning: Cranz drifts into
    some well-meaning but treacly utopianism about the ideal office towards the end
    of the book. Still, you can breeze through that stuff pretty easily. It's well
    worth a look for people thinking about how to set up their offices and homes for
    better health. I know I was sold on many of her ideas--or, at least, many of her
    complaints resonated in my own experience, and the one thing that I (a political
    theorist) have in common with the designers, typographers and typesetters, and
    software engineers on this forum (besides a love of type) is that I spend a lot
    of my professional life on a chair at a desk."
  created: '2005-06-01 02:33:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "That's really interesting, Mojo. Thanks for sharing all that.\r\n\r\nWRT
    the Aeron, they come in three sizes (A, B and C) and are massively adjustable.
    So I don't see why one wouldn't be good for a short person. I'm right on the edge
    size-wise, so I am comfy in both the B and C models, I've found.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-06-01 04:38:39'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "I just read Thomas's post, and, yeesh--\"mojo,\" alone in the post? I wish
    I'd paid attention as my account shifted over. Mojo is me, I am mojo. \r\n\r\nJust
    in case anyone was inclined to get something out of my contribution but is still
    mad at me for running on and on about Hannah Arendt this spring."
  created: '2005-06-01 05:35:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I've been through a number of chairs and have found either the Aeron or \"none\"
    to be the best. In essence, if I must sit*, HM makes the best chairs. You can
    spend $1,000(s) on these, or you can find a place that's liquidating a failed
    Co. and get 'em for $400-$500, which is still 2x cost, but a good deal because
    they last 10-20 times longer than most Companies that spend $50,000 on start-up
    seats. \r\n\r\n*As for standing, I used to split my time between modes to avoid
    becoming numb and because it's pretty near perfect to kern in the dancing position.
    Now, I'm looking forward to doing so again, and adding surfing and stuff like
    this (writing) from the full lounging position. This'll be complete whenever Apple's
    latest endangered great cat/OS is font man friendly, all again possible because
    the once-tossed (what do you s'pose \uF8FF  w e r e  thin king!?) \xA1 jumbo cursor
    is back ! :)\r\n\r\nP.S. \r\nAllowed HTML tags: a em strong cite code etc.\r\nLines
    and paragraphs break automatically.\r\nWeb and e-mail addresses are automatically
    converted into links.\r\nSmartyPants will translate ASCII punctuation characters
    into \u201Csmart\u201D typo....\r\n\r\nBut I did nothing. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-01 16:40:50'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "Similar to the Aeron, I use the Mirra.\r\nA chiropractor and daily stretching
    helps too."
  created: '2005-06-01 17:35:57'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Also an Aeron junkie . . .\r\n\r\nThe sale for me wasn't necessarily because
    it felt so nice but because after long hours in the thing, I could get up from
    it feeling fine. Mind you, this chair only works with an appropriate desk and
    monitor at a reasonable level to save the neck . . .\r\n\r\nLest we forget, an
    all day Aeron complient, the all night Tempurpedic Bed :D\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2005-06-01 19:15:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "When I hurt my back, I asked my neighbor the occupational therapist \r\nfor
    advice on my chair and computer set-up. She gave me some pages \r\nthat were very
    helpful, and my back hasn't hurt since. She said that \r\nthe main thing is for
    the chair to be adjustable, and then to adjust \r\nit right. \r\n\r\nIf I remember
    rightly here are some points: The back should lean back \r\nslightly - past 90
    degrees between your upper leg and torso; your \r\nupper leg should be parallel
    to the ground or slightly elevated (I \r\ndon't remember which) and feet should
    be forward of your knees and \r\nrest on the ground or on an angled foot rest.
    Your upper arms should \r\nbe forward from your body. Forearm should be parallel
    with the \r\nground, and wrist and hand in line with it, with curled fingers \r\nresting
    on the keyboard. \r\n\r\nI want to get one of those fancy Aeron things, but with
    all of the   \r\ncorrect adjustments my standard issue Office Depot inexpensive
    chair \r\nis quite comfortable and no back problems from sitting in it.  "
  created: '2005-06-01 20:50:08'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I use a director's chair and I have no problems because I walk about 2 hours
    a day. Walking is great for strething the lower back. I suggest a long walk for
    everyone at Typecon in either Central Park or Prospect Park.
  created: '2005-06-01 23:00:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Cooke
    picture: 109834
  body: "Don't get me started on Memory Foam Mattresses. \r\n\r\nLong story short;
    sleeping on uncomfortable hard mattress, thinks - ah, memory foam mattress, that
    looks really comfy, buy said comfy mattress for \xA3640. Bliss at first, 2 weeks
    later - agony, like sleeping on a hammock. Solution - buy mattress topper from
    IKEA for \xA375 and put on hard initial mattress. Nice.\r\n\r\nDon't let that
    put you off - Super King Luxury Support memory foam mattress for sale - near mint
    condition - \xA3250 anybody?\r\n\r\n\r\nNick Cooke"
  created: '2009-05-08 17:39:41'
- author:
    name: bemerx25
    picture: 112539
  body: lol - nice way to toy with the spam Nick!
  created: '2009-05-08 18:39:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I had an Obus Forme chair for a while, it was good for 15 years, but then
    the back snapped and I got an Aeron 3 years ago, which is brilliant.
  created: '2009-05-08 23:38:02'
- author:
    name: Berg
    picture: 112334
  body: "I use the [[http://www.ergodepot.com/HAG_Capisco_p/8106.htm|Capisco]] chair
    since five years, it's a great chair.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-09 18:16:39'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I once worked in an office that had <a href=\"http://www.dwr.com/product/life-chair.do?keyword=life&sortby=ourPicks\">Knoll
    Life chairs</a>. They are absolutely amazing. Infinitely more comfortable than
    Aerons. Unfortunately I cannot afford one, so I use a $99 chair from K-Mart.\r\n\r\nEventually
    I plan to replace my desk and drawing table with a massive Alvin worktable and
    just sit in a tall draftsman\u2019s chair. I love those things."
  created: '2009-05-09 18:45:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Astronauts sleeping in zero-gravity naturally recline at about a 30 degree
    angle, leading some researchers to conclude that this is the best position for
    the human body at rest. I'm thinking about completely re-designing my work space
    around this concept. Get rid of the desk. Replace the chair with a kind of divan,
    curved to support the body comfortably in a reclined position. Have my keyboard
    and pointing device on a swivelling platform above my lap. Have my monitor suspended
    from the ceiling at an appropriate height and angle to look at from the reclined
    position.\r\n\r\nOf course, this might just lead to falling asleep a lot."
  created: '2009-05-09 19:46:56'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: John - that's exactly what I did when I worked from home. I'm convinced it's
    the best way to use the computer.
  created: '2009-05-09 20:22:01'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "[[http://www.amazon.com/1000-Chairs-Charlotte-Fiell/dp/3822857602|1000 Chairs]].\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    my favorite chair is one with the smallest environmental footprint possible, requires
    no additional consumption of resources and ideally has more than one function.
    Like the milk crate I found on the side of the curb."
  created: '2009-05-09 20:49:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Stephen, do you have any photos of your set-up?
  created: '2009-05-09 20:52:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Christopher, are you figuring into your environmental calculation future consumption
    of resources resulting from spinal and joint problems, regular physiotherapy or
    chiropractic care, painkillers, etc.?
  created: '2009-05-09 20:56:06'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@ Hudson,\r\n\r\nThanks for the laugh. Having a bit of a rough day."
  created: '2009-05-09 21:21:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "[[http://www.ccohs.ca/oshanswers/ergonomics/sitting/sitting_position.html|Here's
    a link]] from the Canadian government that basically gives the same guidelines
    I passed along above, which I got from an occupational therapist. \r\n\r\nMy neighbor
    actually recommended not vertical, but leaning back somewhat. \r\n\r\nI found
    I could use the same cheap chair, properly adjusted. Of course it would be nice
    to have a fancier one, but for avoiding aches and pains, I think that advice on
    how to set up your chair, key board and screen is really the key thing. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-05-09 21:32:54'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I don't have a photo of mine, John, but here's the <a href="http://eq3.com/cat-eq3/process/locale/en_CA/currency/en_CA/page/30028-06.html">lounge</a>
    and here's the <a href="http://eq3.com/cat-eq3/process/locale/en_CA/currency/en_CA/page/03252.html">table</a>.
  created: '2009-05-10 00:22:17'
- author:
    name: trooperbill
  body: I use a <a href="http://www.distinctivechesterfields.co.uk">Chesterfield</a>
    as i love the aspect, support and the wide arms are great for piling up reference
    materials lol.
  created: '2010-02-05 16:18:47'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "I found my next chair. The Embody.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.hermanmiller.com/CDA/SSA/Product/0,1592,a10-c440-p8,00.html\r\n\r\nLove
    this thread, by the way. "
  created: '2010-02-05 18:06:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I recently discovered the <a href="http://www.humantouch.com/perfect-chairs.html">Perfect
    Chair</a>, and have been trying to figure out how to get a keyboard, trackball
    and screen arrangement to work with this. I even sketched an all-in-one reclining
    work-station that would tip me into a zero-gravity position with the screen etc.
    moving relative to my line-of-sight. Then again, in the zero-gravity position
    I'd probably just fall asleep.
  created: '2010-02-06 01:51:04'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Aeron all the way. Tempurpedic all the way. Recaro ergonomic all the way.\r\n\r\nFood
    and comfort are not things to skimp on.\r\n\r\npbc"
  created: '2010-02-06 03:00:17'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: Why are you posting into <strong>several</strong> non-related threads?
  created: '2010-08-10 22:38:12'
date: '2005-05-28 22:20:20'
files:
- filename: aj0437.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/aj0437.jpg
node_type: forum
title: A good Chair to work.

---
