---
author:
  name: paul d hunt
  picture: 109422
body: "i'll be the first to admit i don't know everything there is to know about type...
  but i keep finding great faces that seem to exist only in metal or are otherwise
  unavailable in a quality digital rendring. Just a couple:\r\n\r\n[[Oldrich Menhart]]'s
  Manuscript\r\n[[Hermann Zapf]]'s Civilite\r\n[[Inland Type Foundry]]'s Commercial
  Script\r\n\r\nI think that the Inland Script is public domain by now, but there
  are most likely restrictions on digitizing the other two (for commercial resale
  anyway). So my question is, what are some other great faces that have yet to become
  available generally in digital format?"
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Hasn't Manuscript already been digitized? I seem remember some discussion
    about it a few months ago\u2026\r\n\r\nI'm not sure that it would be appropriate
    to revive a face from a living designer. I also know of a few cases of children
    of designers who got peeved when their parents' typefaces suddenly appeared out
    of the blue in digital format (for sale by third parties, sometimes without even
    proper attribution).\r\n\r\nBest bet would be to contact the designer or the family
    directly, in my opinion. Who knows? Maybe Hermann Zapf is just waiting for the
    right offer for his Civilite\u2026\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-05-30 18:30:09'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Hasn't Manuscript already been digitized?</em>\r\nIt has... but the only
    \"decent\" (IMO) digitization of it is <a href=\"http://www.omnibus.se/engix/lkmanus.html\">Franko
    Luin's version</a> and it seems to be unavailable most likely for copyright reasons.
    I don't much like <a href =\"http://tdc.org/news/2001Results/Manuscript.html\">Alex
    White's version</a>, a bit too gloopy for my taste.\r\n\r\n<em>Maybe Hermann Zapf
    is just waiting for the right offer for his Civilite\u2026</em>\r\nDoesn't [[Linotype
    Library|Linotype]] have a good working relationship with Zapf? I'd love to see
    them offer develop this one.\r\n\r\nhere's a link to the old Menhart Manuscript
    thread:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/8491"
  created: '2005-05-30 18:33:34'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: I recently exchanged a few kidneys for the monumental <a href="http://www.nijhoflee.nl/design/typography/">F.
    H. Ernst Schneidler</a> book [scrolly poly] featuring simply stunning specimens
    of his entire body of work. I'm particularly fond of his Juniperus-Antiqua and
    of course his blackletters. It also includes every character designed for Legende,
    many of which never made it in. Schneidler is a master on the same level as Koch,
    Tiemann and Lange, and his fonts deserve wider recognition outside the German-speaking
    world.
  created: '2005-05-30 18:44:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I think that Schneidler deserves a better reputation inside the German-speaking
    world\u2026\r\n\r\nAre you going to start working on a Schneidler face?\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-05-30 19:52:12'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Well, how about all those typefaces that need REdigitizing? Eg a lot of the
    Monotypes from the 80's... with those shoddy and limited kerning pairs and mostly
    inept contours.\r\n\r\nBTW I plan on resurrecting a project I started in 1995
    (I know, time flies...), a revival of a Van der Vossen woodcut font. Any issues
    re copyrights with that one. It's from the 20's so \xA9 should have lapsed by
    now. Or am I missing something here?"
  created: '2005-05-30 20:09:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks for mentioning that Schneidler book, John. I had not heard about it
    before. There goes another kidney :)\r\n\r\nI'd love to have a good digital version
    of the Imprimerie Nationale's Cypriot typeface, and will probably make one for
    myself if I can find the time. I think it is one of the most beautiful of all
    the IN 'exotic' types: some of the forms have the freshness of Matisse papercuts."
  created: '2005-05-30 20:55:43'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "Hi Dan,\r\n\r\nMy first real digitization will be some letters by one of
    the local calligraphers in Atlanta. It will be a display italic with a range of
    contextual froof. As far as Schneidler goes, I don't know which company ended
    up with his stuff--either Linotype or Neufville, I suppose. I want to get better
    at digitizing before I go at something as institutional as a Schneidler face.\r\n\r\n(Institutional
    in the positive sense, if you can imagine one.)"
  created: '2005-05-30 21:15:49'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Oh, I can think of plenty of positive institutions. Good luck with the calligraphic
    face!\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-05-30 21:42:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me, very few old fonts are worth [re]digitizing; the effort is generally
    better spent on new stuff. But -as always- there are exceptions: Deberny #16 (which
    I'm actually co-working on, quite slowly though), Pascal (which Neufville has
    been working on, <strong>forever</strong>...) and Octavian.\r\n\r\nJohn H: You
    probably mean the 12 point Cypriot (p237 in IN's 1990 specimen book), the one
    that looks like cave paintings? Because the 10 point (same page) seems like quite
    a boring monoline; and it seems to have been cut at a later date (and probably
    by a different hand), since the IN's 1905 specimen book (which I got my hands
    on recently - it's quite amazing) only shows the 12 (and shows it much better
    - p102) and the caption says only one size was available. Anyway, if you'd like
    a 600dpi scan (or 2000dpi photos) from the 1905 just let me know - although I
    guess chances are good you already own the book!\r\n\r\nJohn B: I'm pretty sure
    the Schneidler stuff is with Linotype.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-30 21:58:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Well, how about all those typefaces that need REdigitizing?\r\n\r\nThere
    is always scope to do a digital version of any metal type, with much leeway for
    interpretation. First, there is the question of which size(s) one uses for one's
    master.\r\nThen there is the question of \"process\", or ink gain: for the model,
    does one take a clean piece of type (or even the designer's drawings), or a printed
    image with a lot of gain -- or something in between? Also to be considered: the
    amount of gain to be expected in printing from the digital type (if indeed print
    is going to be the final medium). \r\n\r\nAnd of course, every designer has their
    own personality to put into a typeface, in both their conceptual attitude, and
    in their feeling for form, expressed in the particular shape of curves and texture
    of detail. A physical signature. \r\n\r\nSo it's not really a question of faces
    that NEED re-digitizing, but of what fresh interpretation a type designer today
    can bring to bear on something from the past.\r\n\r\nHaving said that, I still
    side with Hrant in preferring new original work, even though I am quite happy
    to oblige clients/customers by reworking older designs. C'est la vie."
  created: '2005-05-30 22:48:48'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: hrant and nick agree? is that like the second time?
  created: '2005-05-31 01:01:03'
- author:
    name: bergamot
  body: Helvetica Flair.
  created: '2005-05-31 01:42:01'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: I agree. I need more pieces of flair.
  created: '2005-05-31 02:55:26'
- author:
    name: chadbrewer
  body: "I'd like to see Bookman Swashes (the old version) digitized. It'd be a blast
    to use. Though I imagine if it came on the market, we'd see it everywhere for
    a year, and then we'd all be sick of it, and it'd go back on  the shelf. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-31 04:25:14'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "I am looking for specimens of Truchet's work (about 1693) for Louis xiv's
    Imprimerie Royale typeface? In fact any of Truchet's works, even if not typographical,
    are of interest to me.\r\n\r\nHello Hrant, you can probably help."
  created: '2005-05-31 06:56:09'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I\u2019d like to see Bookman Swashes (the old version) digitized.</em>\r\nI
    still love seeing it on spice jars. If i could find decent specimens i'd do this
    one in a heartbeat. I'm sure there's another version besides ITC digitized tho,
    isn't there?"
  created: '2005-05-31 14:24:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gerald, I'm no expert, but I'll see what I have.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime you
    can check out this:\r\nhttp://www.irisa.fr/faqtypo/truchet/truchet.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-31 15:57:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not finding anything on Truchet; just a mention in Maurice Audin's \"Histoire
    de l'Imprimerie\" of 1972 (p189) where he says Truchet was on the RdR committee.
    It's curious that Jacques Andr\xE9* seems to give him central credit** for the
    RdR on that website. Hopefully JFP will chime in and provide useful info.\r\n\r\n*
    Probably the best person to ask about this. Unless you can pull off a seance with
    Audin...\r\n\r\n** And really too much credit here and there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Giampa
    body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nI am surprised you remember me. Thank you for your quick
      response. I am finishing up a book I have been writing that requires some final
      research. Difficult to do in my present circumstances. Is it best I start a
      new thread? I don't know how to do that?\r\n\r\nOr should I write you directly?\r\n\r\nGerald"
    created: '2005-05-31 18:42:13'
  created: '2005-05-31 18:15:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gerald, you must surely know by now that you're not at all forgettable!\r\n\r\nIt's
    not hard to start a new thread (and it's probably a good idea), and you're of
    course free to contact me*, but I don't know much more about this. I can however
    put you in touch with Jacques Andr\xE9. BTW, it seems to me that delving into
    the design of the RdR might reveal the most about Truchet, and James Mosley's
    recent book (I forget the title - Dan knows) is probably the best single place
    to start that journey.\r\n\r\n* As is anybody else: hrant_thatsymbol_inverselogic_dot_com\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-05-31 18:50:23'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nThank you again. There is an illustration for my book on that
    link which is missing. I don't mean the \"missing link\". It is the G on http://www.irisa.fr/faqtypo/truchet/truchet2E.html
    Hopefully I can get a crisp copy for the book.\r\n\r\nI have different questions
    for you later. I will try to start a new thread.\r\n\r\nGiampa"
  created: '2005-05-31 20:23:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Reproductions of the Simoneau engraved plates can be found here and there.
    The best one I personally have is in the IN's specimen book of 1905*, which shows
    the \"L\" and \"M\". I can scan/photograph those up for you, if you like. The
    \"G\" might be somewhere in my library too, but somebody would have to tell me
    where to look for it.\r\n\r\n* Which BTW has [at least] three references to Truchet,
    but all cursory.  Arthur Christian places the credit for the RdR firmly on the
    shoulders of Jaugeon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Giampa
    body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nI will certainly take you up on your offer. I would need
      a high res scan suitable for print. I am not sure how large a file that would
      be, or how to get it to me. (e-mail) I would be happiest to have both the \"L\"
      and the \"M\".\r\n\r\n<em>\"* Which BTW has [at least] three references to Truchet,
      but all cursory. Arthur Christian places the credit for the RdR firmly on the
      shoulders of Jaugeon.\"</em>\r\n\r\nThank you for this also.\r\n\r\nWould you,
      John or anyone else happen to know who (institute) has a showing of Luce's rococo
      flowers  (c.1733).\r\n\r\nI will try to fiqure out how to start a new thread.
      Sorry for this.\r\n\r\nHello John, I expect to be in your neck of the woods.\r\n\r\nGerald
      Giampa"
    created: '2005-06-01 16:58:43'
  created: '2005-05-31 23:13:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thanks for the offer, Hrant. I do have the 1990 IN specimen, and also one
    of the earlier 'types etrangers' specimens printed letterpress.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Giampa
    body: "John,\r\n\r\nGood to hear from you.\r\n\r\nSorry I missed your post, I
      am not used to the new format. You have the IN specimen, maybe this would be
      the best way to expedite the matter. \r\n\r\nGerald Giampa"
    created: '2005-06-01 17:03:42'
  created: '2005-06-01 00:48:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Hello Gerald. To create a new thread, go into the Forum you wish to use and
    scroll to the bottom. Look for "Post a new topic". '
  created: '2005-06-01 17:04:07'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Tiffany,\r\n\r\nI received your earlier note, I am not sure if you got my
    reply? Maybe multiples? I will try to figure out how that works.\r\n\r\n I am
    glad I am not entirely forgotten.\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald Giampa\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-01 17:13:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So I think I managed to make the scan clean and tight, but it's still quite
    large in filesize...\r\nThe image is about 9x4.5 inches at 600, so probably more
    than big enough for your book.\r\n\r\n(3.4Mb) http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Tuleu/RdR-L&M.tif\r\n\r\nAnd
    here's a 15%-size GIF for quick viewing:\r\n(116Kb) http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Tuleu/RdR-L&M_s.gif\r\n\r\nIf
    you actually end up using this, please remember to give credit to the book (\"D\xE9buts
    de l'Imprimerie en France - L'Imprimerie Nationale - L'Hotel de Rohan\", Arthur
    Christian, L'Imprimerie Nationale, 1905), and me.\r\n\r\n> Luce\u2019s rococo
    flowers\r\n\r\nI don't see any actual samples in my two IN books. On page 84 of
    the 1990 book however there's a short paragraph about that stuff:\r\n\r\nEn 1771,
    Luce publie chez J. Barbou son 'Essai d'une nouvelle typographie orn\xE9e de vignettes,
    fleurons, troph\xE9es, filets, cadres et cartels, invent\xE9s, dessin\xE9s et
    ex\xE9cut\xE9s par L. Luce, graveur du Roi, pour on Imprimerie royale'. Cette
    typographie est compos\xE9e de six mille poin\xE7ons grav\xE9s de 1740 \xE0 1770,
    \"fruits de quelques loisirs que les travaux de l'Imprimerie royale laiss\xE8rent
    a son auteur\".\r\n\r\nBut are you sure they'd be \"rococo\"?\r\n\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSo
    what's the book about?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-01 19:47:16'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\n\u2022 But are you sure they\u2019d be \u201Crococo\u201D?\r\n\r\nAccording
    to the late John Dreyfus they are, supported by the old Berthold Typefoundry.\r\n\r\n\u2022
    (\u201CD\xE9buts de l\u2019Imprimerie en France - L\u2019Imprimerie Nationale
    - L\u2019Hotel de Rohan\u201D, Arthur Christian, L\u2019Imprimerie Nationale,
    1905), and me.\r\n\r\nAlready entered. The scan is beautiful.\r\n\r\n\u2022 So
    what\u2019s the book about?\r\n\r\nThe topic: printer's fleurons. The first text
    in the book consists of several discoveries and observations by the late John
    Dreyfus. Naturally Dreyfus wrote this section himself. \r\n\r\nThe rest of the
    text is my own which will be lavishly illustrated by my own work with fleurons.\r\n\r\nAnd
    yes, there is a publisher waiting.\r\n\r\nGerald Giampa\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-01 22:03:04'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Oh God, can one keep nothing private anymore? I suppose I must be the first
    to have digitized and used Luce's ornaments (which, personally, I would loosely
    describe as faux gothic) and have used them for a good ten years, but I have sedulously
    kept them away from the eyes of known typophiles. \r\n\r\nWith regard to the digization
    of old metal typefaces, the problem is laziness on the part of designers. What
    makes a metal typeface great is not the design per se, but the implementation
    at the various sizes. Until you are willing to restrict a metal design to one
    size you cannot get it to rival the printers' work of yore. But this applies to
    new designs too, doesn't it? Hence Sumner Stone's Cycles in 7, 9, 11 points. "
  created: '2005-06-02 02:37:31'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Bill,\r\n\r\n I would like to see these? You could show me in private if
    you wish.\r\n\r\nGerald Giampa"
  created: '2005-06-02 03:19:54'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: I'm adding [[Letraset]]'s <a href="http://static.flickr.com/33/40935926_a2c907f1cf_o.gif">Magnificat</a>
    to this list.
  created: '2005-09-06 22:06:51'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: "It's very unlikely to happen but I would like to see a digital version of
    Rosart's Financi\xE8re. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.jazz.futurezone.com/default.html#rosart
    \r\n\r\n...and released by The Enschede Font Foundry. "
  created: '2005-09-06 22:41:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'That is Gorgeous!! '
  created: '2005-09-06 22:42:54'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: Wow, that is truely a work of art.
  created: '2005-09-06 23:28:58'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i now give you... <a href="http://static.flickr.com/26/41032856_9c8c53654c_o.gif">the
    letter P</a>.
  created: '2005-09-07 04:08:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: What about the letter -T-?
  created: '2005-09-07 05:28:02'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Paul likes swashes.\r\n\r\nI would also like helvetica flair ."
  created: '2005-09-09 13:43:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Somewhere in there, there is a letter \"P\" but it may not be quite the right
    font for the NYC subway type Terry is working on :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-09 13:56:11'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: I *NEED* Helvetica Flair! My Helvetica fix just won't ever be complete without
    it.
  created: '2005-09-09 13:57:22'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: huh! i just found that [[URW]] is releasing a version of Manuscript called
    <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/manuskript-antiqua/">Manuskript Antiqua</a>.
    Too bad it doesn't have the cyrillic component...
  created: '2005-09-21 10:18:36'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: So Hrant, whatever happened with Giampa's offer?
  created: '2006-09-17 22:27:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not reading an offer anywhere - please explain.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-18 00:07:58'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Oh I totally misread the thread. In my brief scanning I thought I had seen
    something about Giampa digitizing something. '
  created: '2006-09-18 00:16:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, I'm sure he is, something or other. Personally I've never managed to
    get anything tangible out of him, not even his list of books when he once offered
    to sell some of them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-18 01:21:48'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: We all need to live closer to Giampa (so we can go bang on his door and make
    him give us stuff).
  created: '2006-09-18 01:22:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "More like his boat :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-18 01:50:02'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "There is a font called Civilite - but I guess it's not the same one Zapf
    designed?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/civilite-urw/\r\n\r\nOK from
    what I'm seeing, this URW font Civilite seems 'inspired' by Zapf's original and
    shares its flavor but is not an exact replica. It is a lovely font, I bought it
    recently."
  created: '2006-09-18 02:36:39'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "nope, not the same, here's a bit of a crappy sample:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ZCivKleenpdh091706_6109.gif]"
  created: '2006-09-18 02:44:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Not the same but similar. How is it that they get away with using the name?
  created: '2006-09-18 02:53:32'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: civilite is less the name of a typeface, per se, as it is the name of a genre
    of typefaces based on a particular script hand. the urw civilite is just one version,
    H&FJ have <a href="http://www.typography.com/catalog/historicals/more2.html">their
    own version as well based on the Granjean model.
  created: '2006-09-18 03:10:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Civilit\xE9 is just the name of the style - and not trademarkable.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    remember this freaky \"Goth Civilit\xE9\"?\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/9245\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-18 03:10:56'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i do. what ever happened to our friend raph?
  created: '2006-09-18 03:17:13'
date: '2005-05-30 18:20:25'
title: Faces i wish were digitized

---
