---
author:
  name: grod
  picture: 109624
body: "I'm hoping for a hardcore crit before I go any further with this face. It is
  intended for for books and like material, and constructed to look best between 6.5
  and 14 points. There is no uppercase or punctuation yet. Don't pull your punches.\r\nThanks.\r\n-Noah"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Hi Noah. First thing I notice is that all of your vertical strokes are too
    heavy. The -o- is too thin, as is the -c- and the bowl of the -d-. The -e- fills
    in on the left side. Perhaps instead of thinning the vert strokes you could thicken
    the thinnest areas of all of the letters. The exit curve on the -c- seems too
    thin. The bowl on the -b- seems too small, this could be because there isn't a
    solid base. Curves on the -m- seem too angular in comparison to the curve on the
    -n-. The bowl on the -p- seems to be squashed at the top right. The -c- also seems
    to be leaning backwards. What is your resource? From where is your inspiration
    coming?
  created: '2005-05-31 23:41:38'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: "Tiffany, attached is a minor revision and the original version in the same
    pdf. The quotation is in the revised version. The other revised sections are marked.\r\n------\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimboMinorRevision.pdf\" target=\"_blank\"
    title=\"why can't I attach files in a reply?\">minorRevision.pdf</a>\r\n------\r\n\r\nI
    drew the -a- free, it was the first character I made. I then made the -o- with
    the stress (?) at -15 degrees. The construction of the remaining characters was
    loosely influenced by bembo, various garamonds, and the -a- and -o-. Mostly I
    just made each glyph in relation to each other glyph, though I guess they aren't
    entirely harmonious yet.\r\n\r\nThank you for the prompt feedback! Just how thick
    should the thin areas become? Do you find what I\"ve done sufficient? I'd like
    to retain a degree of contrast.\r\nYours,\r\nNoah\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-01 00:45:41'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: "Progress is slow, for those who are interested...is anyone interested, or
    am I just cluttering up the board with self-indulgent posting? ... Here is a sample
    of the font so far. I'm starting to feel out how I want the UC to be, and I've
    got about half of it done. What do you think of the new -n-, -m-, -s- ?\r\nThanks,\r\nNoah\r\n<a
    href=\"http://grodworks.com/temp/frimborevisedagain.pdf\" target=\"_blank\" title=\"Frimbo
    sample\">sample here</a>"
  created: '2005-06-05 01:48:50'
- author:
    name: magnus_gaarde
    picture: 109904
  body: "Hi Grod\r\n\r\nAs Tiffany noticed the 'o' and 'c' look too thin. But also
    the 'd' and the 'b' look like the curves are just a bit too thin. Try making them
    a little bit thicker than the stem width.\r\nTo me it also looks like the 'o'
    is tilting too much to the left. It could just be me but the 'd' having the same
    tilt as the 'o' also looks a bit like it wants to take off to the left. \r\nI
    think you should try to stick to one type of serif on that 's'. I like the top
    one. \r\nThe right legs of 'n' 'h' and 'm' looks thinner than their left ones.
    And the hairline in those letters also looks very thin. \r\nThe serif on the 'q'
    is weird. It should be longer to the left than it is to the right. \r\n\r\nI have
    probably repeated some of Tiffany's words here but I still think the contrast
    in certain letters needs work.\r\n\r\nI look forward to see more of this font.\r\n\r\nmagnus"
  created: '2005-06-05 17:15:04'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: In the spirit of honest critiques, this looks to me like Bembo if Bembo were
    a lush! I'm afraid I simply don't understand the rationale for the modifications
    you've made to Bembo; them seem altogether arbitrary. As the others have pointed
    out, the colour is just plain wunky as a result. The relationships between thicks
    and thins across letters are not consistent. For example, the bowls of the p,
    d, b, and q are the similar, but not in the relevant way, viz stroke axis. More
    importantly, they don't match up well with those of a, m, n, h, and r, especially
    where they meet the stems.. Keep in mind that Bembo is of calligraphic heritage.
    You have kept the proportions from this face, while basically abandoning the calligraphic
    strokes and axes. I think you should probably either keep the calligraphic style,
    or change the proportions altogether if this design is to make sense.
  created: '2005-06-07 00:42:24'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: "magnus_gaarde, thanks for the additional feedback. I took your suggestions
    to heart and attempted to implement them. Overall I believe the font is improved,
    however I'm certain there are many more modifications I need to make and continued
    feedback is not only welcome but highly desired. Please note that the uppercase
    is complete but imperfect as of yet. I'd like to read any suggestions, criticism,
    praise, or objurgations from anyone willing to take the time to examine the <a
    href=\"http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimbosample2.pdf\" target=\"_blank\" title=\"another
    sample of frimbo\">samples</a> and the energy to reply.\r\nYours,\r\nNoah\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimbosample2.pdf\" target=\"_blank\" title=\"another
    sample of frimbo\">Here is another sample</a>\r\n\r\n<strong>edit</strong> <em>nepenthe</em>,
    heh, figures. I post a reply to magnus_gaarde only to discover that, while I'd
    been composing my reply, you'd commented. First, thank you for the honesty of
    your crit. Now that you point these inconsistancies out to me many of them are
    painfully obvious. I think my main rationale is that I don't want to make Bembo,
    but I do want to be influenced by Bembo. Perhaps the randomness is due to fear
    of influence. Regardless, I can see I have a lot more work than I'd initially
    thought. Thanks for your observation, while somewhat frustrating, I find I mostly
    agree. Now to figure out what to do about it.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-07 06:18:07'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: "nepenthe, tell me how you feel about the font <a href=\"http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimbosample3.pdf\"
    title=\"another sample\" target=\"_blank\">now.</a> It is not meant to be Bembo,
    nor a revival, nor an homage, nor an interpretation. I drew on the proportions
    of Bembo, it is true, but I also drew on a variety of other sources and my own
    ideas. If the result is a drunken Bembo, then this is a failure. <a href=\"http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimbosample3.pdf\"
    title=\"another sample\" target=\"_blank\">Here is another sample.</a>\r\n<strong>EDIT:
    2 hours later</strong>\r\nSo I just wandered over to <a href=\"http://www.fedex.com/us/officeprint/main/\"
    title=\"for those unfamiliar with Kinko's\">Kinko's</a> and paid their absurd
    $.20/min to use a computer and nearly 1$/page to print a sample of frimbo on heavy
    weight, blindingly bright, laser printer paper. The Xerox printer had a maximum
    setting of 1200dpi, which I employed. The result, a crisp, sharp, very black (for
    a laser printer) printout. Looking at it now, I find that it is far from \"wunky\"
    and has an even, readable quality to it, at least at decent resolutions. While
    I'll continue to tweak, I think it rather extreme to label the frimbo with the
    epithet, \"wunky.\""
  created: '2005-06-07 21:10:56'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: I also tried printing your new sample from 1200dpi from my printer. I will
    try to post a detailed critique when I get the chance.
  created: '2005-06-08 22:35:03'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: "I eagerly await your opinion. In the meantime I've begun work on the italic.
    Still very rough, but at least all the characters are sketched out now. <a href=\"http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimboItalic_v01.pdf\"
    title=\"frimbo Italics v01 sample sheet\" target=\"_blank\">Italics sample</a>\r\n--
    -- --\r\n<strong>EDIT</strong>:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimboItalic_v02.pdf\"
    title=\"new sample\" target=\"_blank\">Here</a> is a sample of the italics as
    they now stand. The overall spacing remains imperfect but it's getting there.
    The individual characters harmonize a bit better now, as well."
  created: '2005-06-10 06:00:16'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: hmmm, lost interest?
  created: '2005-06-12 04:06:12'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: "Seriously, I'd really appreciate some feedback on the italic, both as an
    italic and as a companion to the roman. I'm still a complete novice when it comes
    to type but since no one has said \"you suck, give it up\" I'm encouraged to keep
    trying.\r\n-Noah"
  children:
  - author:
      name: nepenthe
      picture: 109675
    body: "I really don't have too much time, which is why I haven't commented, but
      since you're on the edge ;) ...\r\n\r\nThe Italic:\r\n\r\nStem widths aren't
      consistent. For one example, check the n against the r. The r looks noticeably
      thinner than the n. Also, the n is thicker on the left than it is on the right.
      If anything, it should probably be the other way around, but only by a couple
      of units. \r\n\r\nYou have a swash serif on the A in a place that doesn't make
      sense.\r\n\r\nSome of the uppercase letters have both adnate and abrupt serifs.
      This doesn't make sense either.\r\n\r\nThe y looks bent out of shape. \r\n\r\nThe
      weights of the numerals seem fairly inconsistent to me. Problems here are similar
      to the LC.\r\n\r\nIt's good that you made the ascender serifs more horizontal
      than the exit serifs. \r\n\r\nThe leg on the R and the K should be more similar
      than they are now.\r\n\r\nAs this italic seems mostly influenced by Palatino
      and the roman is influenced more by Bembo, I'm not so sure they work well together.
      But perhaps if you even out the colour of the glyphs it will be OK. In terms
      of overall stems, italic and upright seem to match fairly well, but the italic
      is too loose.\r\n\r\nI have to get back to work now, but good luck with it!"
    created: '2005-06-15 17:33:36'
  created: '2005-06-15 07:43:01'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: 'Interesting, thank you. I''m surprised at the Palatino resemblance, I''ve
    never looked at Palatino Italic, I''m pretty sure I''ve never used it for anything.
    Concerning the <strong>A</strong>, I tried it with swashes on both sides in sort
    of chancery style but it felt to calligraphic (well, duh) and I wanted the uppercase
    to be closer to a slanted roman than to a script -- Hmm, just took a look at Palatino
    Linotype Italic, I like the <strong>z</strong>. -- I''ll work on regularizing
    some of the stem widths and cleaning up that <strong>y</strong>. I''m not certain
    what I''ll do with the <strong>A</strong>. I don''t feel constrained by history
    or convention and will happily mix styles and influences but if the result is
    crap I''m not going to stand back and call it art. I think I''ll treat this face
    like a coherence set, as long as it is internally consistent it is true :-) (you
    are a philosophy major, right? hmm, but in Canada, you guys tend to be more interested
    in Being than epistemology)... thanks for the feedback, you''ve given me a lot
    to reconsider. Did you ever reach a conclusion re: wunky (isn''t the word "wonky")
    color in the roman?'
  created: '2005-06-16 00:19:43'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: 'Interesting, thank you. I''m surprised at the Palatino resemblance, I''ve
    never looked at Palatino Italic, I''m pretty sure I''ve never used it for anything.
    Concerning the <strong>A</strong>, I tried it with swashes on both sides in sort
    of chancery style but it felt to calligraphic (well, duh) and I wanted the uppercase
    to be closer to a slanted roman than to a script...Hmm, just took a look at Palatino
    Linotype Italic, I like the <strong>z</strong>. I''ll work on regularizing some
    of the stem widths and cleaning up that <strong>y</strong>. I''m not certain what
    I''ll do with the <strong>A</strong>. I don''t feel constrained by history or
    convention and will happily mix styles and influences but if the result is crap
    I''m not going to stand back and call it art. I think I''ll treat this face like
    a coherence set, as long as it is internally consistent it is true :-) (you are
    a philosophy major, right? hmm, but in Canada, you guys tend to be more interested
    in Being than epistemology)... thanks for the feedback, you''ve given me a lot
    to reconsider. Did you ever reach a conclusion re: wunky (isn''t the word "wonky")
    color in the roman?'
  created: '2005-06-16 00:20:03'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: This comment removed.
  created: '2005-06-20 04:20:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, that spacing is pretty rough.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 05:24:26'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: Any examples of specific pairs that throw you?
  created: '2005-06-20 05:28:10'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: this comment removed
  created: '2005-06-20 05:32:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, maybe InDesign could do better too - although from what I understand
    it depends on how good your base spacing is (and I haven't had the time to look).
    But one place that IKern is doing worse is in the word \"such\" (at the end of
    the third line before the end in the Roman) where it's leaving the \"su\" very
    tight but loosening the \"uc\" and \"ch\". It's also unduly loosening the \"ub\"
    in \"dubious\" on the last line. So maybe there's something about your \"u\" which
    is throwing it off? Dunno.\r\n\r\nThis isn't to say IKern is useless, just not
    nearly as good as a rigorous human spacer can manage. BTW, that overlay is cool-looking,
    but hard to \"read\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 06:22:14'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: 'on the <strong>u</strong> left sidebaring:25, right: 24; "su" pair -6 kern,
    uc pair -4 kern, ch pair no kerning. I really suck at spacing, even following
    Tracy''s recommendations, that''s one of the reasons I wanted to try iKern.'
  created: '2005-06-20 06:31:29'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: <strong>hrant</strong>, I've followed Tracy's instructions to the letter (sorry)
    and generated <a href="http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimboMyMetrics.pdf" target="_blank">another
    sample</a>. What is your opinion?
  created: '2005-06-20 10:55:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm not sure how much you're changed what*, but I think it does look better
    now.\r\nHere are some things I noticed:\r\n\r\n\"a\" right: too loose\r\n\"d\"
    right: too loose\r\n\"s\" right: too tight\r\n\"t\" left: too tight\r\n\"u\" right:
    too loose\r\n\r\n* Especiall since there's a pretty severe limit to how far Tracy's
    method will take you; to me it's more of a -good- guideline.\r\n\r\nThe Indy setting
    looks a bit better overall I think, but:\r\n1) It seems to be under-compensating
    for some of the 5 problems above;\r\n2) Sometimes it's messing up, like in that
    \"result\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 17:45:35'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: <a href="http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimboMyMetrics1.pdf" target="_blank">and
    now?</a>
  created: '2005-06-21 08:05:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, that's much better! Good going. Just keep on tweaking though.\r\nLike
    the left of the \"a\" is a hair tight... There's <strong>always</strong> something!
    \ :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 08:52:13'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "I had a quick look at some of the roman pdf samples (using Acrobat reader
    7.0 on Linux), but I have not printed any. Some of the uneven stroke widths in
    smaller sizes look like hinting artifacts to me. They do not appear to such an
    extent in the largest sizes. Zooming in alters the effect. I get a slightly different
    effect using gv on Linux, which uses the Ghostscript font rasteriser.\r\n\r\nI
    have seen this effect in some badly hinted Type1 fonts. For example, omitting
    or misplacing a vertical stem hint can grossly thicken the stroke on screen, but
    it is OK on a high resolution print.\r\n\r\nI wonder if you have some real (but
    fairly small) irregularity in the stroke widths, or some other problem, that is
    confusing the automatic hint generation."
  created: '2005-06-22 12:32:24'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: "<strong>Glyn Adgie</strong>\r\nI think you're right. I don't know how to
    hint manually so I just use the autohinting routine. The results on one of my
    other fonts (kisbefe, a sans) are really bad. In this font I've noticed the <strong>r</strong>
    appears darker than it is at some magnifications. I've redrawn most of the characters,
    nothing major, just refinements, but the hinting remains less than perfect.\r\n<strong>Hrant</strong>\r\nIf
    I've spaced the characters <em>a la</em> Tracy and the font is designed for between
    6 and 14pts, on average what is the tightest kern I should make? I've looked at
    what Indy does and I've looked at the kerning in Minion Pro, and it seems that
    pairs are rarely kerned by -12 units or so. The problem I have is that what looks
    good at 128pts in the metrics window is too tight at 8pts on paper. How do you
    deal with the optical, um, illusion(?) of spacing?\r\n\r\n<strong><a href=\"http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimboMyMetrics2.pdf\"
    target=\"_blank\">Here</a> is the revised version and kerning sample</strong>"
  created: '2005-06-23 05:04:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> on average what is the tightest kern I should make?\r\n\r\nWow, that sounds
    tough... What does \"average tightest\" mean? :-/  Do you mean the max negative
    value you should use? I can't think how anybody could come up with a number...
    But -12 seems like way too little. I personally use values over 50 often, and
    I know I'm not alone.\r\n\r\nAnyway, don't worry about the numbers too much, worry
    about the color. Once you arrive at a spacing that can't be improved without kerning,
    you're very close to the color you want, and you kern to bring errant pairs in
    line. This is sort of simplified, since the <strong>eventual</strong> avilability
    of kerning should be taken into account in the base spacing (and even the black
    letterforms), but in the real world it's 95% there.\r\n\r\n> How do you deal with
    the optical, um, illusion(?) of spacing?\r\n\r\nI think the only way must be by
    applying experience\r\nto (via acquiring experience from) carefully crafted\r\ntests
    you carry out.\r\n\r\nBut looking at your latest sample, I would say that your
    overall* spacing is slightly too loose for the vertical proportions and color
    of the face. And once you make the spacing slightly tighter, I think you can shoot
    for around 11 point setting - just great for text (although I personally prefer
    darker color). You won't really be able to go as low as 6 though; maybe 8.\r\n\r\n*
    I say overall because it's still a bit too irregular - like look at \"adjusted.
    But I think it's almost there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 05:21:16'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: "<strong><a href=\"http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimboMyMetrics3.pdf\" target=\"_blank\">Here</a>
    is another kerning sample</strong> Please note, I decided to jump on the class
    kerning bandwagon and I'm still figuring things out. I thought I could throw A,
    smallcapA, and xheightA in the same class but that messes things up. Just an example.
    Anyway, <strong>Hrant</strong>, I've tightened the overall spacing and adjusted
    a bunch more, is it dark enough for you? Or is it too dark now? The last version
    took 17 complete lines with the word \"memory\" on the 18th line. This version
    requires 17 lines with room to spare. Optical kerning still manages to be slightly
    more compact. What do you think? And any hints on the class kerning? For example,
    what do I do with ligatures, what do I do with punctuation? Also, I'm <em>very</em>
    interested in your overall opinion of <strong>Frimbo</strong> as a face. Don't
    pull your punches, either.\r\nYours,\r\nNoah"
  created: '2005-06-23 07:47:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the overall spacing is a good tightness now, and the color is fine.
    However, it seems that maybe there are more spacing anomalies now. This is natural,
    since the more you tighten a face the harder it is to space... Maybe I should
    have told you that in advance.  :-/\r\n\r\nAs for what I think of the design itself:
    I would make more of it more idiosyncratic; the distribution of funk seems somehow
    imbalanced. But this isn't designed for me, so don't fret.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 17:20:23'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: <strong><a href="http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimboMyMetrics4.pdf" target="_blank">Yet
    <em>another</em> attempt</a></strong> at getting the spacing right.
  created: '2005-06-24 10:54:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The spacing is looking pretty good now!\r\n\r\nSome things that pop out:\r\n-
    The right of the \"e\" is slightly tight.\r\n- The left of the \"a\" is slighlty
    tight.\r\n- I might tighten the right of the \"r\" a hair.\r\n- Kern the round-round
    pairs looser; this is expected.\r\n- The \"fi\" should be wider.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-24 16:01:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, I keep forgetting to mention: your blank space could be a hair narrower.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-24 18:08:08'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: OK, I've adjusted the metrics/kerning <em>again</em> (out of curiosity, when
    I've 'finished' with this -- assuming such a thing possible -- what do I do with
    it? Could I sell it? Whom would I approach? Or should I just keep it so in a few
    years when I finally managed to make a really <em>good</em> font I can look back
    and laugh?) and made another sample which you'll find <strong><a href="http://www.grodworks.com/temp/frimboMyMetrics5.pdf"
    target="_blank">Here</a></strong>. I've also set (very quickly [about 10 min]
    so no need to point out the lack of typographical refinement) a longer body of
    text at 11pts. It can be found <strong><a href="http://www.grodworks.com/temp/adventure2.pdf"
    target="_blank">here</a></strong>. As usual, I need all the help I can get. :-)
  created: '2005-06-24 18:29:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What have you changed? The \"ea\" in \"heard\" (end of first line) is still
    way too tight.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-24 18:35:08'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: OK, I replaced the files linked to in my previous post. Changes should be
    evident now. BTW, ae isn't kerned, so I guess when I tightened the metrics I over
    did it a bit. What puzzles me is that I only increased the sidebarings on a few
    glyphs and added less than a hair of space between round/round pairs but the paragraph
    now appears to take the same or slightly more space than the one with no kerning
    at all.
  created: '2005-06-24 20:04:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "- The spacing seems decent now. Just tighten the blank space.\r\n- Maybe
    add some \"r\"-round negative kerns.\r\n- The \"ea\" (what you meant) shouldn't
    need a kern anyway.\r\n- You increased sidebearings on the \"a\" and \"e\", and
    considering how frequent those two letters are it's expected that they'd add a
    lot of set width to text. But you must have meant as compared to the non-kerned
    setting of the <strong>previous</strong> version, right?\r\n\r\nJust to be clear
    though: this is all based on some short minutes looking at your limited sample
    texts. There might be -and most probably are- things we haven't caught yet; and
    I'd be shocked if the kerning is all -or even almost- finished*. But my New Year's
    resolution prevents me from taking this any further for free.  :-)\r\n\r\n* Whatever
    the hell that could mean in type design...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-25 04:14:29'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: "<strong>It seems I made an unfortunate mistake a few weeks ago when I posted
    a sample of Frimbo and claimed that the kerning was the result of Igino Marini's
    excellent kerning software <em>iKern</em>. It was not. This error arose not from
    malice but carelessness on my part. To perform the kerning Mr Marini requested
    the font be in TrueType format. Since I work with Type1 outlines I decided to
    export the metrics and kerning from the file Mr Marini returned to me and import
    them into the original postscript formatted file. Somewhere along the line I made
    a mistake. I'm still trying to determine exactly what I failed to do, regardless
    the error is mine entirely and <em>iKern</em> did not produce the results that
    I claimed it had. I am deeply sorry for this mistake. I know how hard Mr Marini
    has worked on this project and the results, the true results, of his efforts are
    breathtaking, one need only examine the fonts he offers free of charge on his
    own site to see power of his program. It is my sincere hope that my accidental
    misrepresentation of <em>iKern</em> has not tainted anybody's perception of this
    incredible software. The fault is entirely mine, the rough spacing mistakenly
    attributed to <em>iKern</em> came from my own incompetence. I only hope that Mr
    Marini and, indeed, the members of this community can forgive my error.\r\nSincerely,\r\nNoah
    Feldman</strong>"
  created: '2005-07-04 01:43:11'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "I like how your caps turned out! They are really nice.\r\n\r\nOverall, I
    still think this font is bit rumpled, if not quite \"wunky\" as I misspelled earlier.
    But perhaps that is what effects its unique character! For persons familar with
    different typefaces, it is interesting to see the different influences, e.g. a,
    f and r are so Bembo, while s is so Palatino. (I am actually surprised that you
    say the italic has nothing to do with Palatino, since there is such a strong resemblance.)
    And although these elements, among others, are familiar, the overall effect is
    so unusual that I really don't know how to judge it! Anyway, congratulations on
    sticking with it and trusting your own taste. I look forward to see more of your
    work!"
  created: '2005-07-05 01:13:48'
date: '2005-05-31 23:34:02'
title: Frimbo (not that font I made half a year ago, but a much nicer one with the
  same name)

---
