---
author:
  name: Number3Pencils
  picture: 110698
body: "Hey all,\r\n\r\nI'm a recently-registered member, and I'm 16 years old, and
  I have a font of my own. It's called Cyril. The original inspiration came when I
  was browsing through letters for some reason and the Russian ka really grabbed my
  attention. I sketched out a font on looseleaf paper around it (this has become how
  I sketch out all my designs). After a while I realized what I'd drawn was much too
  bold, so I drew another one, refining it a lot on the way. Then I penned it in and
  used a trial version of Font Creator 5.0 to digitize it. That took a long time,
  and if there's anything else you know of that I can get on a limited budget I'd
  really welcome suggestions. In fact the trial period ran out on it just after I
  finished most of the letters in an italic I drew up to go with it, but not much
  of the punctuation or any numbers, so that's somewhat incomplete and I can't finish
  it. I can't figure out how to re-download the trial version, either, so I can't
  do much of anything. But I'd like to see how what I have meets with others, so I'm
  putting it up for critique. \r\n\r\n(Let's hope I can figure out how to upload this
  right.)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "It looks nice to me. I like the funny twisted serifs. There is something
    here that reminds me of Seagull. The basic letterforms are nice structurally.
    Your capital O and Q look too condensed. Also, the lowercase x and the middle
    serif on the lowercase m aren't working. \r\n\r\nThe biggest issue  is the color,
    look at how much darker your r is than your o. \r\n\r\nOver all everything needs
    optical adjustments for stroke widths (it looks like you made everything width
    mathematically identical widths, junctions (like the inside joint of the v), and
    overshoots (how round forms like o sit on the baseline). Open up a few good fonts
    to see how other people have addressed these optical issues. You're off to a really
    good start though. Good Luck."
  created: '2005-06-03 00:39:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Reverse-Latinization, yay! This is my type of effort. Are you sure you're
    16? Because the premise of this design is quite mature. I was more than twice
    that age before I started having ideas like this... Anyway, onto the crit:\r\n\r\nYour
    proportions and structures are pretty sound, but like Jackson says, the \"finish\"
    is lacking. Now, to some extent (like the wobbly outlines - see the bowl of the
    \"d\") this can be part of the design's character; you just have to make sure
    that's the intent. Other things, like the \"congestion\" in the bottom half of
    the lc \"k\" seems like less of a good idea. And the color is quite jumpy: like
    in \"feroce\" the straights are way too thick compared to the rounds. There are
    indeed a lot of optical tricks that are essential to a good finished design, and
    it's not possible to find one place that tells you everything you  need to do...
    But Typophile can certainly help!\r\n\r\nMore: I like your funky foot serifs.
    The 1-o'clock and 7-o'clock arms on the \"x\" could use more flair, like that
    great \"k\". The uppercase needs more work - it seems indecisive, and in places
    (like the \"X\") way off. But the \"Y\" rules.\r\n\r\nSpacing: I like the overall
    dark tightness, but it's pretty uneven right now.\r\n\r\nItalics: Although I think
    the pronounced slant fits the character of this design, it looks a bit mechanically-slanted.
    And too conservative, structurally. It's a lot more work, but I think this calls
    for a pretty mannered (i.e. \"showy\") italic.\r\n\r\nAs for an affordable font
    editor, I'd recommend TypeTool.\r\n\r\nAnd I hope more people join this thread!
    This is primo stuff.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-03 19:53:12'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Thanks, guys. I've looked back at the PDFs I made and I see what you mean.
    I think I did make the rounds a little bit thicker than the straights, but obviously
    not enough thicker. As soon as I get an opportunity I'll fix this kind of stuff
    up. I might be able to figure out a way to re-download Font Creator, or maybe
    a trial version of something else that I can use for a while. It'll be tough persuading
    my parents to buy me an $108 program, so I might have to wait on TypeTool for
    a little while. Or maybe I can figure out somewhere to get a job. The catch-22
    is that I need money to make good fonts well, but I can't sell fonts for money
    until they're well-made. So I guess I'll have to find another source of income.\r\nI
    have a few things to say/ask--\r\n-The middle serif on the m: I don't know if
    a regular serif would fit next to the left one. That, and it always seemed hypocritical
    to me to do something to the serif on the right and not to do it in the middle.
    That's one thing that bugs me in Palatino.\r\n-lc x: It probably looks too plain
    because it's more work to make the kind of curve on the k, and I guess I wasn't
    feeling up to it that day. I'll redraw the x when I redraw some of my other characters
    for a revision.\r\n-Hrant - what exactly do you mean by the \"congestion\" on
    the lower half of the k?\r\n-Maybe on the uc X I'll switch out that bottom serif
    for something more like on the lower.\r\n-What do you think of the curve at the
    bottom right of the A?\r\n-Ironic that the italic looks \"mechanically\" slanted,
    because I draw everything by hand. I think I see what you mean, though, and I'll
    try and figure out a way to give it more character.\r\n-Thanks for the compliments.
    I'm especially proud that it merits being called \"primo stuff\". It's nice to
    be able to talk with people who know typography and don't say, \"Looks like...Times
    New Roman.\""
  created: '2005-06-04 17:44:51'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "Well, Hrant knows what he's talking about. I'm still a total n00b and have
    a lot to learn. I'm super close to getting enough courage to try to find someone
    to publish my first real typeface. With that said...\r\n\r\nCurving the thin legs
    of the x like the k might help, but I think it looks weird mostly because of the
    counter made by having those long one sided serifs on the other side.  \r\n\r\nThe
    treatment of that diagonal in the A M N and X (and the similar move on the B P
    and R) is making the uppercase feel a little too inconsistent for my taste. The
    curve on the bottom part has a nice feeling to it so maybe you could try flattening
    out that top serif for balance. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-04 22:59:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It\u2019ll be tough persuading my parents to buy me an $108 program\r\n\r\nShow
    them this thread. In my experience, most parents are even more interested in encouraging
    creativity in their kids than stopping them from wasting money.\r\n\r\n> I can\u2019t
    sell fonts for money until they\u2019re well-made.\r\n\r\nBut beware, making good
    fonts doesn't automacally mean a lot of money; or <strong>any</strong> money!
    :-/ Think of this as the start of a journey that <strong>might</strong> end up
    to be very rewarding in a number of ways; and at the very least rewarding intellectually.\r\n\r\n>
    it always seemed hypocritical to me to do something to\r\n> the serif on the right
    and not to do it in the middle.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, there's a limit to how
    much you can apply strict formal rules; very often you have to improvise to get
    the <strong>font as a whole</strong> to really work.\r\n\r\nThe \"k\": all the
    other glyphs are more open all around. The diagonal arm being so close to the
    stem is making things a bit dark down there; maybe try curling the leg, like in
    the Bell typeface.\r\n\r\n> What do you think of the curve at the bottom right
    of the A?\r\n\r\nI personally think it's da bomb.\r\n\r\n> \u201CLooks like\u2026Times
    New Roman.\u201D\r\n\r\nYou know what's a paradox though? For a text font to work
    really well, laymen (as opposed to other type designers) need to sort of be oblivious
    to any novelty. Even though they should certainly \"feel\" it unknowingly, any
    novelty shouldn't grab their attention too stongly. Now, to be fair, in this case
    you're not shooting for a mainstream text face, so yes, if somebody likens it
    to Times, they need to be paying a <strong>little</strong> bit more attention.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> the uppercase feel a little too inconsistent\r\n\r\nYes,
    agreed; it needs a lot of work all around.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-05 02:57:55'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I'm getting all these great suggestions, but I can't do anything with them
    yet, and it's frustrating. I tried all the loopholes I could think of to get around
    trial version limitations, but to no avail. However, my mom does say she'll buy
    the program for me. Now, you do recommend TypeTool over Font Creator, right? Or,
    what's the hierarchy of programs?\r\nThe capitals I think look too inconsistent
    because I tried to put that downcurve/slant on the top left anywhere I could but
    in some places it just wouldn't fit. In earlier drawings I had lowercase-looking
    serifs there, like on the H, but I wisely abandoned that. It looked pretty ugly.
    I kept it where I could, though, like I say, and that's what makes it look inconsistent,
    I think. I don't know what I could do about it short of straightening out the
    top lefts, which would alter the whole feel. Suggestions at all? (Is that the
    inconsistency you were talking about even?)\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-07 07:17:23'
- author:
    name: magnus_gaarde
    picture: 109904
  body: "Hi Chuck\r\n\r\nFirst of all. It's nice to see that someone as young as you\r\nare
    willing to take a thing as typedesign so seriously. Rock On! \r\n\r\n  I agree
    with the other comments about the typeface. :)\r\n\r\nI haven't tried out Typetool
    or Font Creator but I know Fontlab and to me it the best font making program there
    is right now. Alas it is also a bit pricy. It would probably be smarter to start
    out with Typetool and see what you can do with it. My understanding of the program
    is that it pretty much allows you to do all the basics of Fontlab without having
    to pay nearly as much for the program. In fact I am looking at the Typetool specs
    and it looks like it will let you do mostly all of the things I have ever needed
    to do with a font. Such as opentype features and all of that cool and neat stuff.
    Go for it.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAlthough it is a bit old, this link might be interesting.\r\n\r\nFont
    Creation Programs\r\nhttp://cgm.cs.mcgill.ca/~luc/editors.html\r\n\r\nGood luck "
  created: '2005-06-07 10:40:07'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: '[Comment gotten rid of because it didn''t really add much and it sounded
    like me pleading.]'
  created: '2005-06-16 04:03:26'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Hi, everyone. Well, I've come back from my hiatus up in the hills, where
    I spent many months under a vow of silence in a big stone building of some sort,
    with incense sticks burning everywhere, where I contemplated what good fonts look
    like. I came to the definite conclusion: \"Not the Cyril that I made.\" As such
    I did a complete redraw, which Cyril desperately needed. Then I used TypeTool,
    which my mom in fact did buy me, to turn the drawing into a font. Boy, does TypeTool
    make it a bunch easier than with Font Creator. \r\n\r\nWell, now I go into the
    second criticism phase. Before you check it out: I haven't figured out what exactly
    I'm supposed to be doing about hinting yet, and that's why I haven't done it.
    I clicked an \"autohinting\" button, but it didn't seem to improve much. I'm not
    even really sure what hinting is supposed to be doing. The TypeTool manual is
    a bit vague. I can hold my own when it comes to drawing a font, but all the computer
    stuff leaves me baffled. If anyone is knowledgeable in this area and can tell
    me what I'm supposed to be doing, help is welcome. \r\n\r\nBeyond that, I'll just
    leave it up to you. Now let me figure out how to attach this--how did I do it
    last time?\r\n\r\n(P.S.: I couldn't figure out how to put it in this post, so
    I added it to the first one. It's the one marked \"Sampil\". If anyone knows how
    to put it on this one, I could also use help there.)"
  created: '2005-10-11 22:14:06'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Take a look at that section : http://typophile.com/filter/tips\r\n\r\nYou'll
    find a lots of tips to modify or to add file to your post.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-12 02:13:56'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Chuck/Nathanael,\r\n\r\nI applaud you for your decision to start over. The
    results show your new perceptive skills. I digitized 3 different designs my first
    year, and none of them survive to this day. Good thing, too! They were awful.
    This is exactly what happens as a designer evolves and learns; their ability to
    see problems with type gets more and more focused and more refined. It potentially
    never ends. You have started down the path of becoming more aware of type. Congratulations!
    \r\n\r\nIf you have got a licensed type program and a way to view or print your
    tests, you are on your way. Some Typophiles may be available to give you feedback;
    lucky for you such a forum exists while you are learning. Take advantage of it.
    15 years ago a hopeful type designer had to stumble around looking for clues how
    to proceed. And of course scrutinize type catalogs (Letraset anyone?).\r\n\r\nOne
    other way to make progress is to start another design. This might sound wasteful
    or counterproductive, but consider how the time will pass... While spending time
    constantly looking at geometric sans designs (for example), your skills and perception
    will be advancing and you will be ignoring or forgetting Cyril. After several
    weeks you will be stumped by the sans and go back to Cyril, and lo! There are
    tons more things to fix. Do that, and a few weeks later you'll be ready to re-work
    the sans..... Both will benefit, and the different styles will help your mind
    switch gears and keep you fresh. Another benefit: If you hope to be a skilled
    and productive type designer, it might be useful to have experience with more
    than one style of type. You will develop your own style eventually, but while
    learning, don't shut any doors. Sometimes the most boring assignments teach you
    the most. Type can be deceptive. The cuddly rounded sans design might be a devil
    to digitize. The ornate script might be easier to work with. \r\n\r\nPlease keep
    the Typophiles updated with your progress. You have got some momentum and are
    on the right track. Good luck!"
  created: '2005-10-12 02:50:48'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Oh, I'm working on other designs. Like I said, I sketch them all out on looseleaf
    first... and I have over twenty sheets of looseleaf sitting on top of my dresser.
    I have I think six more serif designs, and two sans, and a cursive--though only
    four of the serifs, one of the sans, and the cursive are any good. In fact, I
    can probably attribute my improvement to that, including the ones that didn't
    make the cut. (And they're in pencil, so I can always bring them up to standard!)
    I just need to do some research on the more technical, less artistic aspects of
    designing. I'm fully prepared to do that, too, but school of course is eating
    up a lot of my time. Speaking of which, I'm up awfully late at the moment, and
    there's a big standardized test tomorrow. So I think I'll let myself out the back
    here, real quick.\r\n\r\nOh, and the Nathanael/Chuck thing: Originally I thought
    I'd use my pseudonym, Chuck Masterson, but then a while later I decided I wouldn't.
    Nathanael is my real name. Sorry about all that."
  created: '2005-10-12 04:39:19'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Anyone out there? I've gotten some good suggestions on how to be a typographer,
    but nothing about the font I made. And then the thread got buried. \r\nUh, I'll
    say one other thing I was meaning to say: if this design seems like it's completely
    different in feel from the old one and naybe shouldn't even be called the same
    font, it's because this is what I was trying to make back then. I just didn't
    have the know-how, and I wasn't patient enough (especially since I only had Font
    Creator). I haven't totally altered my vision; I've just become competent enough
    to interpret it.\r\nOkay, thanks."
  created: '2005-10-23 07:04:17'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hi Nathaniel,\r\n\r\nSorry to focus on process in the abstract. But the term
    is actually fontologist. Kidding! <strong>Type designers</strong> make the type,
    typographers use it. You can be both, and I think active users of type make better
    type designers. \r\n\r\nI recall that for this design you were inspired by a single
    cyrillic glyph. Did you want the font to have Cyrillic overtones throughout, or
    was that just a jumping-off point? If it's the former, study existing Cyrillic
    type and lettering for more interesting ideas. There are other Cyrillic lookalike
    Latin fonts out there, but nothing is stopping you from taking the idea farther.
    \r\n\r\nConversely, I see some art-deco influences in the large eye of e and exaggerated
    bowls of BPR. See Nick Curtis's fonts for more of these features. Is this intentional?\r\n\r\nThen
    again, there's also a lot of classic bracketing and modeling on serifs, like some
    of Goudy's stuff. Is this meant to have a classic, renaissance feel? Right now,
    the proportions fight this. \r\n\r\nTechnically I think you're doing pretty well;
    I only see big problems with the link of the g and weights of diagonals, something
    everyone struggles with. \r\n\r\nIt sounded like the design grew out of a relatively
    vague idea, so maybe strengthening the direction or purpose of it may help decide
    how to proceed. Right now it has a lot of conflicting things happening, and most
    of them preclude using the font in long texts. If you want to see how \"readable\"
    you can make it, study moderns like Bodoni and Walbaum for more features like
    the one that originally attracted you, and also study the proportions of other
    text faces. If this will be for display, then you could be much more adventurous
    with shapes. If Cyrillic provides the inspiration, use some of those conventions
    to make this Latin design more interesting. The lowercase of Cyrillic is like
    small caps, so maybe focus on the caps in this design and see how unconventional
    they can be while still being drawn sensitively (see Exocet, Ottomat, Priori and
    Mason at emigre.com).\r\n\r\nHave fun!"
  created: '2005-10-25 00:26:28'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Hi there.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what I was doing when I made the g: the bottom
    of the top of the bottom loop was above the baseline. I put it back down where
    it belongs. Then I standardized the widths of all the thick strokes in the capitals
    (haven't worked on thins yet)--197 for straight lines and 208 for curves, I think,
    if you're curious. After that, I decided to try and fix some of this proportional
    loudness you talked about. I explain that part in the attachment.\r\n\r\nAs to
    your question, I believe the ka was just a jumping-off point. Most of the rest
    doesn't really have anything to do with historical Cyrillics; I just thought it
    seemed like a Russian kind of feel. The large counters in things like B P R evolved
    just on a whim, but since then I've decided to say that large bowls aid legibility.
    (Is this a valid argument?) I <cite> would </cite> like to make this a workable
    text font. Further to that point, what are some of the inconsistencies you're
    mentioning?\r\n\r\nThanks"
  created: '2005-10-28 02:23:50'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "<em>The large counters in things like B P R evolved just on a whim, but since
    then I\u2019ve decided to say that large bowls aid legibility. (Is this a valid
    argument?)</em>\r\n\r\nThis sounds like post-rationalizing. It isn't necessary
    for someone as observant as you. It's only useful if you don't plan to continue
    learning. There are a lot of things you can do to aid legibility, more important
    than those letter shapes. Lately several Typophile threads have drawn out a general
    feeling that spacing is possibly the most important ingredient of legibility,
    which I agree with. \r\n\r\nThere are levels of proportion in a typeface: the
    stem of a letter to its bowl, width to height, length and thickness of serifs,
    x-height to ascender height. Those things are part of a letter's internal proportion,
    like the bowls of g and how they relate. There's still a little darkness there
    below the joint, and maybe the 2 bowls could be farther apart. If the top bowl
    was wider it might relate more closely to a, o and e.\r\n\r\nLetters also have
    to relate to each other, so there are proportional relationships between them.
    Look at your BCDGOQ next to E, N, and U. This doesn't look like it's supposed
    to be a condensed face; if some letters look \"condensed\" in the context of other
    letters, that's an inter-character proportion that may need adjustment. Unlike
    tabular numbers (all the same width), the letters each need to feel \"right\",
    which is very much relative; they have to look right together. Even narrowing
    a single important letter like E or widening D would change things a lot. Keep
    adjusting. Nothing should be considered \"final\" until everything looks good
    together. It's a system of modules, for setting various languages, so no letter
    is more important. For instance, your r and s relate well to o and c. If you widen
    t and narrow h, other problems will become obvious. As you knock down big problems,
    you see and correct smaller ones, and the overall effect will get more smooth
    and fluid. \r\n\r\nOverall the spacing is still a little tight, you can't quite
    use this for books yet. Do you have some long essays or papers you can set in
    this at regular reading sizes (10-11 point)? In proofreading your own writing,
    you may find some of these things pop out, like tight spacing or the dark g. Set
    the same text in Century, Utopia and Cyril. Compare. \r\n\r\nThere are other threads
    here where people talk about their methods for spacing. Some people like to work
    on spacing while finalizing outlines; I think you should too. If the width of
    a letter changes, then the spacing is hosed and you have to adjust it. In any
    case, spacing for text fonts should be a lot looser than for display fonts. You
    could increase all the sidebearings by 30-50 units and see how comfortable that
    is in small sizes. \r\n\r\nKeep up the good work, Nathanael. I belive you can
    bring about the \"Cyrillic feel\" you are interested in. I can't wait to find
    out who this man in the snow is. "
  created: '2005-10-29 00:02:01'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Ah, I think this is nicer. I widened BPRDOQ like you said, and then later
    I decided I would do the rest of the changes I describe in the PDF. I'm especially
    glad to have stretched the top-left serifs to the left. I widened the head of
    the g like you said and I made the gap a bit bigger. As regards the BPR bowls,
    I'd also like to say that, besides the post-rationalizing argument I made, I think
    they fit the style. I made them a little bit smaller, but not too much. I made
    the B bowls a little more equal.\r\n\r\nSorry if I disappoint, but the man in
    the snow is just a messenger. "
  created: '2005-11-03 00:25:03'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hey, that's looking much more comfortable. \r\n\r\nRe: Big bowls: It's fine
    if you like them, but I actually think you are missing an opportunity to play
    with the Cyrillic style by making the R's tail so small. Like with K, Y and k,
    there could be a grandiose tail there and a small bowl (reverse the proportions
    like in B). It wouldn't have to be less exuberant, but you could get more of that
    feel into the design that way. Look at the cap R in ITC Bodoni Seventy Two and
    in Walbaum for ideas. Your K has this fun in it which doesn't make it less readable;
    go for that. \r\n\r\nRemember, try everything before deciding final shapes. Does
    your font editor have a background layer? Put alternate candidate shapes back
    there. \r\n\r\nThe changes you've made are successful; other problems are becoming
    obvious. Surely this is intriguing and not discouraging?... That is what type
    design consists of. \r\n\r\nI notice that certain bits look thin in text: the
    outstroke (bottom terminal) of c and e, right diagonals of VWYvwy. All of those
    diagonals tend to look better if they are tapered and thickened a little. Serif
    thickness can be separate from hairline thickness; in fact, various \"thins\"
    will need to be different weights to look right. Trickery!  for examples, open
    Minion or Georgia and see crossbars on AHFEL, Thin stems of MNU, and thin diagonals.
    It's all optical, it just looks numerical. \r\n\r\nThe other thing I see is the
    shapes of certain curves do not seem to be closely related to their partners;
    i.e. the curves inside the eye of e are flatter and more angled than the curves
    on the outside. It's there in a,d,o,q, C, G, O and Q. It makes the letter look
    lumpy or stiff. Your D has the smoothness and cohesion I'm referring to. Play
    with the control points and the number of them. Maybe you could post a screenshot
    showing the point structure of a few letters. It's useful to think of postscript
    outlines as very very versatile raw materials; they will do EXACTLY what you want
    if you learn how to control them. At this point there's no reason to let the digital
    structure of your letters influence their appearance. \r\n\r\nThis is progressing
    very nicely. So have you digitized any of the other designs? "
  created: '2005-11-07 19:16:13'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Sampil4 is up. I still have no idea how to post PDFs on current comments--I
    have to keep putting them all on my very first post. That link that sim gave me
    didn't tell me how to do it.\r\n\r\nAnyhow, I've done the revisions you suggested,
    and I've included a very long sample for your viewing pleasure. Now, as to screenshots,
    I'm not on the ball enough to think of taking them while I'm working, and I wouldn't
    know exactly when to take them anyhow. Do you just want some that show the control
    points I'm using for my curves? Maybe that could be arranged. I don't believe
    my font editor (TypeTool) has any way to put up a background layer, though it
    could be that I'm just not astute enough to know it. I changed a few proportions
    more toward equality, but some of the changes you suggested I just couldn't conscion.
    (That's not a word, but it should be.) Viz.: the R proportioned like Bodoni 72.
    Well, I go into detail in the PDF. Anyhow, that's what I've got for this time."
  created: '2005-11-13 19:21:24'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "I'm back. This time, finding time to do it between school stuff and wasting
    time and reading books, I've designed the italic. There are a couple of basic
    problems with it right now that shouldn't be too hard to fix: one is that it takes
    up less vertical space than the Roman, and the other is that I think it's a little
    bit darker than the Roman too. I'm not going to fix those at this moment: I'm
    too eager to get this on the web and see what people think. \r\nOther than making
    an italic, I tweaked the Roman a little. The most noticeable thing is that I changed
    the outstrokes on c,e, and C. otherwise I did a little shape nudging ... that
    kind of stuff.\r\nOne other thing is that, if you didn't notice, up on the first
    post there are seven PDFs. I think I'm correct in saying that the rules don't
    allow you to post PDFs after the first post, or--how do you do it? I think I remember
    someone doing it. Anyhow, failing a way to put them in other posts, I think the
    list is getting a bit too long. Which ones can I get rid of, d'ya suppose?"
  created: '2006-03-21 19:39:20'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I'll just comment on the italic. I see it has an extreme slant, which I think
    fits nicely with the unorthodox feel of the typeface. I'm liking the way the bottom
    of the main vertical strokes of h, p, k, etc. are treated. The curves of m and
    n are too heavy at this point.\r\n\r\nHave you looked at a good range of Cyrillic
    italic letterforms for inspiration? I cannot fault your letterform choices, but
    I wonder if it will be worth looking at shapes that are closer to be, ze, and
    certain other Cyrillic italic lc letters as possible alternate letterforms."
  created: '2006-03-22 04:41:16'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Hello, everyone;\r\nI've been quietly working on this--improving the italic
    and tweaking things that weren't right, but most of all making Cyrillic characters:
    I did every character from both the Cyrillic and the Cyrillic Supplements Unicode
    pages. But the problem is, I can't make a sample including Cyrillic characters,
    because I can't add the Cyrillic codepage. When I click the \"codepages\" button
    in TypeTool, the program just gives an error message and shuts down. I read something
    that caused me to believe I can only have one codepage in a .vfb and I have to
    use a .ttf if I want multiple codepages, but there again, when I try to open a
    .ttf, the program closes. I've already asked tech support what gives, but they
    didn't answer. Now, I know you guys aren't tech support, but I figured before
    I write another letter to FontLab Inc, I might as well see if anyone else has
    had similar annoying problems. TypeTool is pretty similar to FontLab, isn't it?
    I really want to show my new work, but I can't get it to work. Enclosed is a screenshot:
    I can't get the gray (\"inactive\") boxes to turn into yellow ones, so, as far
    as the computer is concerned, the characters don't exist.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/allpurposetemp_4343.PNG]\r\nNote:
    I accidentally made this wider than 600px. I hope it doesn't drive anyone insane,
    because I don't want that on my conscience."
  created: '2007-01-06 04:34:30'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "Yesterday I discovered that I still have Font Creator loaded on my machine,
    and I was reminded that one of its virtues is that it codes things without giving
    you a whole bunch of grief. Or, well, so I thought, but I had to copy all my letters
    from my TypeTool-generated Cyril font to a new one, the problem being that all
    the letters were in different orders between the two fonts. So I had to pick through
    them and get them all unscrambled. Nevertheless, at least I'm able to get the
    letters coded, something I couldn't do no matter what the difficulty when I was
    using TypeTool. I'm working on that, though.\r\n-Anyyyhhhhow, what I'm trying
    to say is that here's Cyril with its Cyrillics, but not all of them. But, the
    normal ones. They are up for critique, as is some refining I've done to the roman
    and especially the italic since my last post. I hope you enjoy. Like a fine wine,
    or a marshmallow Peep.\r\n(New PDF Sampil7 up top)\r\n[Edit: don't know why I
    didn't call it Sampil6, but I didn't.]"
  created: '2007-04-19 02:48:25'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "You know I realised I saw a font that looks very much in this style on one
    of Chevron's signs today when I was pumping gas.   I'll try to take a picture
    of it next time I see it.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que
    apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier
    Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-04-22 06:51:49'
- author:
    name: esl
    picture: 109883
  body: "Hi Nathanael,\r\n\r\nYour cyrillic in Sampil7 leaves a very unusual impression.
    It certainly has the \"cyrillic feel\", but it goes overboard with exaggerated
    traits for a cyrillic text font - and at the same time is too conventional for
    display use. If you take your cyrillic part seriously, I think you need to pay
    closer attention to proportions of the letters and settle on a single set of historical
    allusions; now you are all over the map stylistically, which is a very hard trick
    to pull off even for a native type designer.\r\n\r\nGood luck with your project;
    it seems to be moving along nicely.\r\n\r\n-Sergei \r\n "
  created: '2007-04-27 07:12:06'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: Can you give me an example or two of what you mean?
  created: '2007-04-29 04:31:07'
- author:
    name: esl
    picture: 109883
  body: "Ok, let's take your cyrillic K as an example.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/K_4518.gif]\r\n\r\nIts
    upper hand is very 19th century cyrillic, with high contrast, bullet-like top
    element and uniformly thin stem. Its lower counterpart is quite modern (end of
    20th century) and has some latin undertones in its treatment of the serif. It
    also is a lot heavier than the top arm so the whole letter seems to be out of
    balance. \r\n\r\nYou can see historical shapes of K on <a href=\"http://www.artlebedev.ru/everything/izdal/kniga_pro_bykvy/search/view/?page=D539B9DF-932E-4379-99AD-7799EEF23EF9&book=1&words=35584,236795&text=%CA\">this
    page</a> from Yury Gordon's book \"On Letters\"."
  created: '2007-04-29 09:16:04'
- author:
    name: WurdBendur
    picture: 110861
  body: I love the feel of this font. I do hope you intend to include plenty of extended
    Latin coverage so you can perhaps represent your Esperanto correctly (among other
    languages, of course). :)
  created: '2007-07-29 20:57:02'
- author:
    name: ferfolio
    picture: 128984
  body: "Hi!\r\n\r\nNice work, you've progressed a lot\r\n\r\nI have a cupple of advices
    to tell you, from my point of view. Of course it's your choice if you want to
    correct them or not ;)\r\n\r\n- The part of the \"y\" that touches the base line,
    is too sharp comparing with other leters. You could try doing that transicion
    just like the \",\" curves. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/y_5804.JPG] This
    generates a big white space when you read, an it calls your attencion.\r\n\r\n-
    The letter \"c\" at the serif, is not rounded like the rest, compare it with the
    \"e\"\r\n\r\n- The diagonal arm of the \"z\" is too fine, or the horizontal ones
    are too dark... check that out...\r\n\r\n- The same with the \"x\"\r\n\r\nWell
    with all my main critiques, id like to say that its a great work, i like a lot
    the rounded vertical serifs! and the italics are wonderful!\r\n\r\ngreetings\r\n\r\nFerch\r\n\r\nPS:
    sorry for my bad english, my native tongue is spanish, if you dont understand
    something let me know"
  created: '2007-08-03 17:17:23'
date: '2005-06-02 23:34:34'
files:
- filename: Cyril1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Cyril1.pdf
- filename: Cyrilit1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Cyrilit1.pdf
- filename: Sampil.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Sampil.pdf
- filename: Sampil2.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Sampil2.pdf
- filename: Sampil3.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Sampil3.pdf
- filename: Sampil4.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Sampil4.pdf
- filename: Sampil5.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Sampil5.pdf
- filename: Sampil7.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Sampil7.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Cyril

---
