---
author:
  name: jason
  picture: 109852
body: "Hi folks,\r\n\r\nAs I'm sure is the case with most of you, my notebook is randomly
  filled with various bugs and hiccups that I try to remind myself to scan for when
  starting work on a new book. The problem, of course, is that these hints & nudges
  are spread out all over the place. For a while now I've been meaning to compile
  these notes, and an upcoming wayzgoose has prompted me to put them together either
  as a chapbook or a series of broadsheets. However, I know that the list I've gathered
  is cursory and incomplete at best, so I wondered if anyone wanted to add their favourite
  quirks.\r\n\r\nThis list obviously isn't absolute, as various spacing and kerning
  issues will be different from one face to another. The idea was/is simply to put
  together a list of things to look for with each project.\r\n\r\nThe list has nothing
  really to do with layout: that is, I haven't put in anything about leading or sizing
  or H&J settings, etc. This is purely about typesetting issues, such as what to place
  on either side of an en-dash or how to handle singe-quotes inside double-quotes.\r\n\r\nAlso,
  at the moment the list is specific to the house-style used at <a href=\"http://www.greenboathouse.com\">greenboathouse
  books</a>, a small press I started up a while back. This means many of you will
  likely have different opinions about many of the setting \"rules\" I have in the
  list. Hopefully what I have listed doesn't make anyone too crazy.\r\n\r\nWhile I'm
  curious and eager to hear different takes on different bugs, I'm primarily interested
  in the many details the list is currently missing entirely.\r\n\r\nI realize some
  out there may not be too eager to give away their secrets, so if you're the quiet
  type, I understand completely. But for those of you willing to share, please post
  anything that comes to mind.\r\n\r\nAt the moment I've set the list without much
  hoopla, designing it primarily with a letterpress setting in mind, so it's a fairly
  humble looking PDF at the moment.\r\n\r\nWhile this idea started out as a potential
  reference tool for my students, really it just seems like a good exercise, and while
  I was at it I thought some of you might like to stretch your muscles a bit as well.\r\n\r\nI
  look forward to anything you might have to offer...\r\n\r\nHere's the link: <a href=\"http://www.greenboathouse.com/dewinetz/pdf/a-typographers-checklist.pdf\">A
  Typographer's Checklist</a> (so far).\r\n\r\n\r\nJason"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Great document, Jason. One quibble: why "include closing slash with simple
    domains"?'
  created: '2005-06-05 09:05:00'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: Why is US an exception without small capitals?
  created: '2005-06-05 09:33:41'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Stephen: Good question. I can remember making the decision with a book a
    while back to include the closing slash, but now that this practice is posed back
    as a question, I can't seem to find a functional reason. Thanks for drawing attention
    to this one.\r\n\r\nsergej: I avoid setting US in small caps simply because in
    many faces, despite obvious context, it has the potential to look like \"us\"
    (\"We're going to the movies. What to come with us?\") USA is a different matter
    and should, of course, be in small caps.\r\n\r\nThanks for these two comments
    so far. This is part of the reason I decided to post the list: to have some of
    these things questioned. Keep it coming..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ktinkel
    body: "You could consider a different practice: Use periods with abbreviations
      of 2 letters, no periods for 3 letters or more. Thus, you would write U.S. but
      USA (all in small caps). Then you could use small caps for all, which I find
      less jarring than small and large caps for terms that are logically similar.\r\n\r\n\u2014
      Kathleen\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2005-06-16 22:11:44'
  created: '2005-06-05 18:42:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Except in a font with properly-designed smallcaps (visibly taller than the
    x-height).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-05 23:52:50'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "hrant: The list I put together was primarily based on my experience with
    Minion, which is what I use for most of my academic/scholarly book design. Minion's
    small cap x-height is level with the lowercase (well, very close to it), and while
    the small cap U is obviously distinct from its lowercase relative, the small cap
    S is just too similar; thus the word itself is very easily read as \"us.\" While
    in principle I agree with you (and thus this is an issue I reconsider often),
    the reality in many of the projects I've worked on is that principle in this case
    isn't as important as clarity for the reader.\r\n\r\nExample: [no longer available]"
  created: '2005-06-06 01:23:54'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "While we're on the topic of small caps, I'm curious what others do with pluralized
    small cap acronyms?\r\n\r\nIn the example below the acronym is \"IPR,\" but pluralizing
    the acronym looks a whole lot like \"IPRS\" in small caps (especially at 10pt).
    An apostrophe doesn't work gramatically (turning the acronym possessive) so this
    always stumps me. Any thoughts?\r\n\r\nExample: [no longer available]"
  created: '2005-06-06 01:40:25'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Hence another problem with typeface designs in which the small caps are at
    x-height.
  created: '2005-06-06 08:20:15'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: 'Great document. I would love to publish similiar documents for all European
    languages at <a href="http://euro.typo.cz">Typo.cz</a>. Unfortunately it is very
    difficult to find basic type setting rules for minor languages. But people here
    at Typophile could join and help you create such PDF''s for other languages too.
    It would be a fantastic tool. '
  created: '2005-06-06 20:07:09'
- author:
    name: beng
  body: About pluralizing the acronyms. It find it very interesting how different
    languages solve these types of problems. In spanish I believe there is a convention
    of doubling the letters in the acronym to indicate plural words, for example the
    acronym <em>EE.UU.</em> for <em>Estados Unidos</em> (United States). In swedish
    we typically use a colon, for example <em>IPR:s </em> or in small caps <em>IPR:S</em>.
  created: '2005-06-07 18:17:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I find, generally, that I use lc s follow as in NASAs ... again it is ugly
    and wish people would write to avoid this. :^/
  created: '2005-06-07 18:25:49'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I don't use small caps for two letter strings, just three or more. I haven't
    really minded the \"bump\" caused in the bouma by them.\r\n\r\nState abbreviations
    for instance\u2026 I think that they read better in caps. But USA, definitely
    small caps and USSR or NASA ist just ugly when typed out without them\u2026\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-07 18:41:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Small caps can also be differentiated from lower case by letterspacing. (Tracking
    them out.)\r\n\r\nI don't have a problem with the apostrophe for pluralization.
    Context will make the distinction. The apostrophe glyph already does triple duty,
    used for possesive, abbreviations, and as a right quote.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-07 19:03:27'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Thanks for the input so far, but I'm getting the feeling you folks are holding
    out on me. I had half-expected (and hoped for) an onslaught of bugs I'd overlooked.
    Any suggestions?\r\n\r\nAlso, Tiffany, as a writer & editor myself, I've often
    made the foolish mistake of trying to convince authors that a small adjustment
    to their grammar would help me enormousely in setting their work. Alas, I may
    as well wish that poets would recognize that a book page isn't as wide as the
    letter-sized sheets they're typing their ridiculously long-lined poems on."
  created: '2005-06-07 19:08:02'
- author:
    name: oystein
  body: "Nice post Jason!\r\n\r\nI have some comments (excuse me for not using bullets
    on this list):\r\nIn regard to the last point on bullets, I don't understand why
    you wouldn't use a period if the items are not continuation of list title. Wouldn't
    you then choose to capitalize the items, and use a period?\r\n\r\nI also have
    a preference for en bullets instead of em bullets. Em bullets take far to much
    attention, especially since they're also indented.\r\n\r\nHere are some notes
    I have made about bullets, taken from Brinhurst and David Jury among other places.
    Sorry for not giving credit to everyone, I didn't bother to jot down where I got
    it from since I only wrote it down for myself.\r\n\r\nBullets can be solid or
    outline, and come in two standard sizes, em bullets (which are almost as big as
    capital letters) and en bullets (which are about half the size of em bullets).\r\n\r\nEm
    bullets: Are almost always too big, should be limited to cap letters and should
    be set in outline form for minimum text disruption.\r\n\r\nEn bullets: Should
    centre on cap height when in the beginning of a line and should centre on lowercase
    x-height when used with lowercase text.\r\n\r\nEn bullets can be set even smaller
    when less emphasis is required, when very many or very few bullets are used, when
    they\u2019re used with a typeface that has a small x-height and whey they\u2019re
    used with a condensed typeface.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-08 10:14:23'
- author:
    name: oystein
  body: "I also have two comments in regard to ellipses.\r\nHow would you differentiate
    between the omittance of a word, and the omittance of a sentence? For instance:\r\nHe
    was going to Norw\u2026.\r\nHe was going to Norway\u2026.\r\nIs there any other
    way to do this?\r\n\r\nAnd why would you put the comma before the ellipsis and
    after the first sentence? Doesn't that all depend on wheter the word(s) that have
    been omitted in the first or the second sentence? If the words have been omitted
    in the last sentence, I agree, but except for that I think the comma should be
    placed after the ellipsis, as with all other punctuation marks.\r\nHere's the
    excample from your document:\r\ntext,\u2026 text\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-08 10:32:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> holding out\r\n\r\n\r\nFYI here is a style guide I prepared earlier this
    century, which shows examples of some of the issues:\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Assets/Depts/Essays/DigginIt.pdf\r\n(2.2
    Mb)\r\n\r\nYour suggestions for \"hair\" spacing is problematic in that the effect
    will vary with different styles of font (especially roman vs italic, and serif
    vs. sans), and with the different spacing strategies built into fonts. \r\n\r\n*
    dashes: the amount of sidebearing included with a dash varies with the font. Some
    have it built-in, others don't. See example.\r\n\r\n* spacing ellipses: similar
    thing. Traditionally, the ellipsis appears to have been an em in width (1000 units),
    with the period and comma about a quarter of that. However, many digital fonts
    have the width of the ellipsis as three times the period/comma (and that's how
    I do all my fonts), so you don't need to add hairs between it and other marks.
    \r\n\r\n* possessive \"s\" is roman in italicized words: this is a real makework
    project, when you consider the extra kerning that will be involved (could use
    InDesign \"optical\" tho'): Also, many fonts have kerned apostrophes (very necessary
    following \"f\") already. Sometimes, the different angle can look noticeably silly,
    like a wrongfont mistake.\r\n\r\n* kerning figures: I consider the sidebearings
    of the \"1\" to be part of the character -- when they are too small, as is often
    the case in proportional figures, it doesn't look right. This is possibly because
    we see so much of tabular figures, and didone figures, which have plenty of side-bearing
    built-in to the \"1\". So when the old-style figure is the \"little\" 1 that looks
    like a dotless \"i\", as is the case with Minion, there really isn't enough \"one-ness\".
    Keeping adequate space on either side helps preserve that.\r\n\r\nHowever, it
    always helps to kern between a space and a following \"1\".\r\n\r\n* Roman parentheses
    with italic content. This is a bit precious. Again, it creates all kinds of kerning
    problems. Italic f with roman brackets is incredibly horrible, creating gaping
    wounds in the text flow. The technique can look great for Didone types with their
    huge pothooks, and other italics with prominent serifs, but creates a really unbalanced
    inprression with sans serif fonts.\r\n\r\nRather than specify procedures for different
    circumstances, it may be better to suggest a desirable visual outcome, and leave
    it for the typographer to implement. For instance, state that the goal to be attained
    in a <period - ellipsis> sequence is the appearance of four equally spaced periods."
  created: '2005-06-08 11:31:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Very nice, thanks Nick. What is the Sans used in the title of the piece?
  created: '2005-06-08 17:17:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Jason -- It's true, I assume too much and hope for too much when it comes
    to designers and copywriters working together in harmony. =^D It's also true that
    I'd  never ask a poet or an author of some of literary prose to re-write their
    words. I suppose I was just thinking in terms of advertising. Mea Culpa. :^)\r\n\r\nThis
    is all very interesting thanks for sharing all of this, by the way."
  created: '2005-06-08 17:26:15'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Great, thanks to each of you for the input. I'm going to speak to each here,
    one at a time.\r\n\r\n\r\noyestein (bullets):\r\nThe notes on bullets are very
    specific & helpful. Any chance you could dig up where they're from? I'm going
    to add them to the list but would like to give credit. I'll also adjust the list
    itself to exemplify the practice described (I'll let everyone know when an updated
    version of the list is ready).\r\n\r\n\r\noyestein (ellipses):\r\nThe samples
    I have in the list were pulled from the marginal examples in Bringhurst (p.82
    in v.3.0), but here are my understandings (please ignore spacing issues in HTML
    text below):\r\n\r\n\"text...text\" \r\n= omission of one or more words\r\n\r\n\"text...,
    text\" \r\n= omission of remainder of comma-distinguished clause\r\n\r\n\"text,...
    text\" \r\n= omission of entire comma-distinguished clause(s) following a comma\r\n\r\n\"text....
    Text\" \r\n= omission of remainder of sentence\r\n\r\n\"text....\" \r\n= omission
    of remainder of paragraph\r\n\r\n(final period in last 2 examples above could
    be exclamation or quesion)\r\n\r\n\r\nNick (spacing ellipses & dashes): \r\nAs
    I mentioned in a comment above, the list I posted is based on my work with Minion
    (which I use often for body copy) and thus the spacing suggestions are specific
    to Minion. Beyond that face, the list is meant simply to draw my attention to
    various tricky settings, each of which will need to be addressed differently depending
    on the face & size in use at any given time. Thus, the list isn't meant to be
    accurate in all cases, but is meant to itemize issues that will need to be examined
    & adjusted in each project.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick (possessive roman \"s\" with italicized
    words):\r\nI agree, it's a bit of a make-work project, but in my experience they
    don't crop up too often and can be addressed easily enough. The idea here, I think,
    is to find a solution - specific to each book project - that will work throughout
    that project and apply it consistently.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick (kerning/spacing proportional
    oldstyle \"1\"):\r\nI think what you're saying here is that generally speaking
    \"1\" needs some attention. It is, after all, the loneliest number.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick
    (roman parentheses with italic content):\r\nI'm a hard-ass on this one, siding
    with Bringhurst, and ultimately my opinion here is simply aesthetic: italic parentheses,
    brackets & braces look ridiculous. Working with an italic \"f\" and a roman right
    parenthesis is indeed tricky, but it's doable (this may horrify some, but in the
    past I've kerned that paren out and then [god forbid] put a 5 degree slope to
    it [example no longer available].\r\n\r\n\r\nNick (your final comment):\r\n\"Rather
    than specify procedures for different circumstances, it may be better to suggest
    a desirable visual outcome, and leave it for the typographer to implement.\"\r\n\r\nAbsolutely.
    My goal is to set up the list (using Minion) to serve as a visual guide (which
    happens to have specific directions for using Minion). From there the idea is
    to examine these issues in whatever face/size I'm using and produce similar visual
    results.\r\n\r\n\r\nPhew. Thanks to each of you for taking the time to respond,
    I really appreciate the input on these topics. I'm going to try later today to
    update the list to reflect the suggestions so far, and will let you know when
    the new verison is posted, but in the meantime please keep'm coming. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-08 19:46:48'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Jason\r\n\r\nI noted that in your original post that this information may
    be destined for letterpress practitioners? Not all that is digital typographic
    practice is necessarily appropriate for letterpress. Even style manual-wise. You
    mentioned the problem of poets writing long lines. Well, this is something that
    might only bother a letterpress printer. It's somewhat a matter of presswork.
    The purely digital folks won't understand the problem.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\nhttp://BielerPress.blogspot.com"
  created: '2005-06-09 04:54:58'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Jason, thanks for the thoughtful thread and for sharing your work. Nick,
    thanks for sharing \"Diggin' It\". This is the perfect primer and reference sheet
    for our interns and production designer(s).\r\n\r\nWhat do you all think of putting
    this 'checklist' into the wiki? Would the idea of multiple people adding to the
    primer help it? I tend to think it would. (But, Jason, it's of course your document
    and I'll just suggest it.)\r\n\r\n____\r\nSince Nick's PDF didn't get linked by
    the system, I've pasted it here:\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Assets/Depts/Essays/DigginIt.pdf\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-09 06:18:10'
- author:
    name: smarks
    picture: 109688
  body: "<em>Why include closing slash with simple domains?</em>\r\n\r\nOne possible
    explanation is that the formal syntax for a URL requires there to be a path following
    the domain, and the shortest legal path is \"/\". But this is a technical argument,
    not a typographical one. Perhaps some techie had browbeaten you into adopting
    that rule.\r\n\r\nAnother reason might be that a trailing slash serves as a visual
    marker that this is a URL and not an ordinary word. Usually a leading \"www\"
    serves this purpose, but domains don't always include it. If the parts of the
    domain can together form a word (consider inter.com) it might mask the fact that
    this is a URL.\r\n\r\nBut the trailing slash does look odd.\r\n\r\n<em>What do
    others do with pluralized small cap acronyms?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't have any solution
    but I certainly admire the problem. -- Ashleigh Brilliant\r\n\r\nI do note that
    I see this phenomenon all the time in <em>The Economist</em> magazine and it throws
    me off every time. They pay enough attention to this stuff that I'd think they'd
    do it differently if they could think of a better way.\r\n\r\ns'marks\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-09 07:09:38'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I overlooked one of oyestein's questions above:\r\n\r\n\"In regard to the
    last point on bullets, I don\u2019t understand why you wouldn\u2019t use a period
    if the items are not continuation of list title. Wouldn\u2019t you then choose
    to capitalize the items, and use a period?\"\r\n\r\nIn the document I posted I
    mentioned 3 types of lists, which I'll run again here with explanations:\r\n\r\n1\r\nItems
    are capped with closing punctuation. This is where the title/introduction is a
    complete sentence, as are the items.\r\n\r\nThe list title is what introduces
    the list:\r\n<ul><li>Each list item is a complete sentence.</li>\r\n<li>Complete
    sentences make use of initial caps.</li>\r\n<li>Closing punctuation is required
    for complete sentences.</li></ul>\r\n\r\n2\r\nItems are not capped and conclude
    with semicolons. Such lists make up one complete sentence.\r\n\r\nThis list has
    a variety of parts including:\r\n<ul><li>an introductory clause;</li>\r\n<li>some
    bullets;</li>\r\n<li>and multiple items.</li></ul>\r\n\r\n3\r\nItems are not capped
    and use no punctuation. This is a simple itemized list, where the items are not
    part of the title/introduction.\r\n<ul><li>white</li>\r\n<li>black</li>\r\n<li>red</li>\r\n<li>blue</li></ul>\r\n\r\n\r\nThese
    aren't the best examples, so I may simply be making this more complicated, but
    this is more-or-less how I set such lists."
  created: '2005-06-09 07:23:55'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "bieler: You're absolutely right. What part of this thread has reminded me
    is that what we're talking about here has nothing to do with setting metal. Coppers
    & brasses are not hair & thin spaces, and setting lead bullets has nothing to
    do with tabs. Thus, my notion of producing this list as a letterpress broadsheet
    has been set aside.\r\n\r\nAs for the long-line poems, in addition to designing
    I'm also a publisher & a poet (if you're really bored <a href=\"http://www.greenboathouse.com/dewinetz/\">take
    a look here</a>), and I think line-length still has plenty of impact on digitally
    produced books. For example, look at Patrick Lane's recent <em>Go Leaving Strange</em>.
    It's painful to open. Due to Patrick's desire for a long line, the text measure
    is less than 1cm from the outside edge, made so much worse by the fact that the
    body text is set in a condensed face. Sure, the publisher could have moved up
    to a larger format for the book, but do you know any trade publishers that would
    do so for a book of poetry (other than Gaspereau [I'm speaking of the Canadian
    scene here])?\r\n\r\nMy point is that as a writer myself it doesn't seem so much
    to ask that poets recognize the medium they're working with (books), and perhaps
    learn a tiny bit about their means of production and thus their (commercial) limitations.\r\n\r\nDon't
    get me wrong, I run a small press for exactly this reason: to produce books that
    serve the writing, not the other way around. Most trade publishers, however, don't
    have that luxury."
  created: '2005-06-09 07:36:35'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Jason\r\n\r\nThere is an acceptable way of breaking a line of poetry (by
    indenting the remainder of the line) but most contemporary poets would be quite
    upset if you do so. \r\n\r\nI was once shown a manuscript of poems by a well-respected
    upper midwest poet and commented to the publisher that the poet's habit of using
    an isolated instance of an extremely long line in an otherwise short line measure
    poem was problematic both in terms of design and presswork (letterpress). It was
    simply a comment regarding production rather than a criticism of the work but
    because of it the publisher decided to give the book to a less fussy and opinionated
    printer.\r\n\r\nOne of the problems with formats (in trade publishing) is that
    any deviation from standard sizes kicks up the unit price. But yes, you rarely
    seen oddities from poets who have had some experience on the production end. Walt
    Whitman wrote extremely long lined free verse but since he also had experience
    as an itinerant printer he fully understood the need for breaking lines. Even
    Marinetti understood the restrictions of \"the page form\" and consulted with
    his printer as to how to achieve his intended effect.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-06-09 18:44:13'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Jason\r\n\r\nShould have mentioned this. I did look at the site. Congrats
    on the awards, well deserved. Pleased to see this kind of energy. Best with it
    all.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-06-10 06:15:15'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Hi Gerald,\r\n\r\nThanks for your kind words. I've just put together who
    you are and I do appreciate your input here. During a visit last summer Robert
    B. was describing his experiences working on Koch's <em>Parmenides</em> and we
    talked a fair bit about photopolymer. He leant me a copy of your <em>Printing
    digital type...</em> which was very informative & encouraging for a designer like
    myself seemingly dependant on my computer. I don't have a press myself, but have
    done some metal setting & printing with Caryl Peters of Frog Hollow Press here
    in Victoria, and am looking forward to an opportunity to print a project with
    photopolymer somewhere down the road. For the moment I just wanted to say thanks
    for your posts, but if/when that project reveals itself, I may reach out to seek
    your well-informed advice. Thanks again..."
  created: '2005-06-10 07:30:26'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Below is a link to the latest version of the checklist. It's still in progress,
    & if I have any time this weekend I may attempt to give it a bit of character,
    but it is what it is for now. Thanks to everyone who has contributed discussion
    so far, but please do keep it coming.\r\n\r\n{Keep in mind that this list details
    setting directions for use with 10pt Minion specifically (as that is what the
    list is set in). Beyond this face & size the idea is simply to draw attention
    to tricky typesetting issues that may pop up at any time in any face/size combination.
    As with any typographic \"rule,\" this list is meant to illuminate, not dictate.}\r\n\r\nTypographer's
    Checklist (v.2) [Link removed; see mid-February 2006 posts for new a version of
    this file.]"
  created: '2005-06-10 07:53:26'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Maybe include something about how the @ symbol often needs some baseline shifting,
    particularly in older fonts where it sits on the baseline (too high). The character
    was originally used with lining figures, but now it's almost always used with
    lowercase in email addresses.
  created: '2005-06-10 22:45:20'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Yes, and not only the at but the copyright symbol as well. And to further
    it a bit, reduce them in size to a bit larger than the x-height of the font, and
    with the reduction in size, change them to a heavier weight (and if you don't
    have the extra weight, make one in FL or FOG). They look real nice that way, and
    hey, isn't that what its all about?\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-06-11 02:18:03'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Good stuff Jason.
  created: '2005-06-14 17:50:59'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Kathleen,\r\n\r\nThanks for bringing this up; I do tend to use periods with
    U.S. (& E.U., U.K., etc.), but don't usually set these in small caps. Your bringing
    it up is good food for thought.\r\n\r\nHowever, this doesn't really solve the
    issue above in terms of plural abbreviations/acronyms. What I've done in a current
    project on this front is set the abbreviation/acronym in small caps and reduce
    the 's' by a point in a slightly heavier weight. The idea of course is to maintain
    consistent colour on the page and give some visual indicator that the abbreviation/acronym
    is plural, without tripping the reader up on a too-obviously shrunken character.\r\n\r\nThanks
    also to Stephen & Gerald for reminders about the @ and &copy; glyphs; I'll add
    something on each in the next version of the list.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-17 01:21:39'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: I don't think you need the colon following the title that appears at the top
    of each page. (In general I think combining colons and line breaks is excessive.)
  created: '2005-06-17 16:16:35'
- author:
    name: souljacker
    picture: 109452
  body: "Nice stuff! Thanks a lot!\r\n\r\nWouldn't it be nice to have something like
    this focused on web typography? I've aways had problem on impleting typographycal
    rules in web content.\r\n\r\nPS: Is that Pacella?"
  created: '2005-06-18 02:08:41'
- author:
    name: oystein
  body: "What about punctuation marks and quotation marks? I've read that the comma,
    like the period, is always placed inside the closing quotation mark, while colon
    and semicolon is placed outside the quotation mark unless it is part of the quoted
    matter.\r\n\r\nAgree/disagree?"
  created: '2005-06-18 11:29:08'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "This is great, Jason.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how expansive you intend to get
    on <em>The Typographer's Checklist</em> or to what degree of sophistication (is
    this a guide for graphic designers, novice publishers) but I think it might be
    helpful to include some of these instances or at least cautionary words to the
    reader:\r\n<dl>\r\n<dt><strong>Oldstyle Figures</strong></dt>\r\n<dd>When available,
    to be used within text for expression of dates and on occasion expression of whole
    numbers. (You can find many references on this.)</dd>\r\n<dt><strong>Lining (old
    terminology) & Monospaced Figures</strong></dt>\r\n<dd>Just a caution for correct
    use. I've seen annual reports using fitted numerals!</dd>\r\n<dt><strong>Small
    Caps</strong></dt>\r\n<dd>We never used them unless they were available as true
    cuts. But that was our house style.</dd>\r\n<dt><strong>Large and Drop Caps</strong></dt>\r\n<dd>I'm
    not sure if you want to approach this, but Nick cites some useful hints in his
    <em>DigginIt</em> compilation. I know that you hadn't intended this for layout
    but use of small cap words after drop cap is a nice refinement. This could just
    be added as a recommended use in the small cap section without advice on drop
    caps.</dd> \r\n</dl>\r\n\r\nWhat about combing for possible ligatures?\r\nSorry
    for the quick post, just wanted to get some thoughts in before we head to the
    mountains.\r\n--------------------------------------\r\nYes, I'm old, but I'm
    back in style!"
  created: '2005-06-18 15:16:42'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Oystein, I've avoided issues such as the one you mentioned as there tend
    to be different schools of thought on whether punctuation should be placed inside
    or outside quotes. In my part of the world I stick to the following guidelines,
    but I think this issue is normally a matter of cultural (<em>ie.</em> double-quotes
    [&#8220;x&#8221;] vs. guillements/chevrons [&laquo;x&raquo;]) &/or house style:\r\n\r\n<ul><li>period,
    comma: always inside right quote</li>\r\n<li>question, exclamation: inside right
    quote ONLY if part of quote</li>\r\n<li>colon, semicolon: always outside right
    quote</li>\r\n<li>footnote superscript: always outside right quote (kerned carefully)</li></ul>\r\n\r\nI
    haven't included this in the checklist as it seems more an editorial decision
    than a typographic one (despite the fact that I fight for the above when working
    with [misguided] editors).\r\n\r\n*\r\nNorbert, thanks too for your suggestions.
    As above, I haven't bothered to discuss the use of old style or lining figures
    only because I'm assuming that's relatively obvious. One only has to read a few
    books on typography to have the proper use of numbers drilled into one's head,
    and if less than a few such books have been read, one shouldn't be typesetting
    anything. Ditto for use of small caps: if the font doesn't have true small caps,
    find another font. And ditto again for small caps after drop caps: this seems
    more a matter of style than a technical typesetting issue (despite the need for
    careful kerning after the drop cap).\r\n\r\nAs for combing for possible ligs,
    I've added a new section at the start of the checklist discussing various things
    that should be noted & potentially replaced throughout a project. Take a look
    and please do let me know if anyone has anything that could be added to this section.\r\n\r\nPlease
    keep in mind that this little project continues to be ultimately geared to my
    own taste & needs. I don't suggest that anyone follow these guidelines exactly.
    Instead, I hope that posting the list might encourage others to modify it to best
    serve their own workflow.\r\n\r\nHere's the latest version: Typographer's Checklist</a>
    (v.3)\r\n[Link removed; see mid-February 2006 posts for a new version of this
    file.]"
  created: '2005-06-26 21:19:18'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Lookin'' good. How''s this for fussy: the ''RA'' kern in TYPOGRAPHER''S is
    too loose.'
  created: '2005-06-26 22:30:19'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: Ah, yes, display copy. Thanks Stephen, I far too often get stuck in body copy
    thinking I'll get back to headings later. Later, however, occasionally ends up
    being too late.
  created: '2005-06-27 02:07:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well, if we're going to be fussy:\r\n\r\nWhy is the head set in small caps?\r\nThey
    are optimized for body copy, and don't have enough contrast and finesse of detail
    for display use (at least, not in conjunction with text weights of the same face,
    as here).\r\nAlso, an all small caps setting puts the apostrophe way out of position.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-27 02:43:27'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Nick, thanks for your comment; I love these questions as they push me to
    investigate my preferences, and I think that's what learning & experience is based
    on.\r\n\r\nIn this sort of instance I tend to prefer using small caps for headings
    (unless using caps for a heading & subhead, in which case I use all-caps for the
    head & small caps for the sub). \r\n\r\nI realize using small caps on their own
    for a heading isn't the convention, but in many cases I'm drawn to small caps
    for exactly the reasons you mentioned: less contrast & finesse. To my mind, larger-set
    caps tend to begin to look a bit too \"modern\" (that is Bodoni- or Didot-ish),
    and the delicacy of the serifs begin to irritate me. (Let alone using an actual
    [optical] Display weight, as there is for Minion.) I'm a sucker for stocky Renaissance
    type and thus tend to shy away from the sort of refinement you're advocating.\r\n\r\nThe
    odd thing here is that while I favour a darker Book rather than Regular weight,
    and have a fondness for Medium & Semibold weights of various book faces, Bold
    and Black weights make me extremely uncomfortable.\r\n\r\nAs for the mis-positioned
    apostrophe, that's an excentricity I haven't quite found the restraint to abandon.
    If my ongoing journey towards conservative setting continues, it shouldn't be
    more than a few weeks before I look at that apostrophe in horror. But for the
    moment I'm going to enjoy its abandon out in the great white open."
  created: '2005-06-27 03:58:03'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Also, I've cleaned up the kerning in the heading & added a note about lifting
    parens/brackets/braces with caps, and am about to add something about adjusting
    the size/baseline for @ & &copy;, but I won't bother posting another version of
    the list for a few more days.\r\n\r\nBringhurst told me a while back that this
    is essentially how <em>Elements...</em> started, beginning as a modest primer
    which grew and continues to grow into an important & comprehensive set of field
    notes. I'm certainly not attempting anything close to the same here, but I have
    a feeling this checklist will continue to grow and improve."
  created: '2005-06-27 04:11:53'
- author:
    name: l_vazquez
    picture: 109907
  body: "Nice work Jason!\r\n\r\nJust some comments about dashes.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to Geoffrey Dowding's 'Finer Points in the Spacing & Arrangement of Type' en dashes
    are rightly used in a sequence of figures, as you have done. \r\n\r\nFor text
    copy he uses em dashes without spaces between words. He points out that in any
    case dashes should be separated from the word or words they relate to by a hair
    space only, otherwise they appear to be floating, making the line of text becoming
    too gappy."
  created: '2005-07-05 12:23:45'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Like it's been said in other threads, I think the long dash situation is largely
    dependent on the font's color and dash lengths.
  created: '2005-07-05 18:21:21'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "l_vazquez\r\nWhile I'm familiar with Dowding's (and others') view on dashes,
    and while I recognize Stephen's comment about colour & length, my approach to
    dashes used for asides -- like this* -- comes down to an editorial perspective.
    \r\n\r\nDashes used for this purpose are meant to distinguish a secondary comment
    (the aside) from the primary statement (the sentence). Using an non-spaced em-dash
    for this purpose really doesn't make visual sense because such a setting JOINS
    the two separate components (comment & statement) rather than distinguishing them
    from one another.\r\n\r\n(Granted, a non-spaced em-dash creates physical space
    between the sentence & the aside, but the glyph itself creates a visual binding
    that, to me, works against the purpose of the aside as a comment or response to
    the sentence it resides in.)\r\n\r\nThe same goes for hair-spaced dashes, whether
    en or em. While Dowding might say that thin- or word-spaced dashes are left \"floating,\"
    to my mind thin-spacing is the best compromise between editorial clarity and typographic
    colour.\r\n\r\n*As always, please excuse HTML's clumsy handling of dashes in this
    example. HTML uses em's rather than en's, which is what exactly the practice I'm
    speaking against."
  created: '2005-07-05 21:50:43'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: never mind *sheepish grin*
  created: '2005-07-07 03:02:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Goudy's idea (which the old guys stole from him) of using an angled hyphen
    makes a clear distinction between hyphens and dashes.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nAs a writer-typographer,
    I often leverage punctuation to maximize the visual interest of text. I use the
    em dash as an alternative to little spotty marks (especially the colon) -- it's
    so much more brisk and exciting! I also use parentheses as part of this visual
    scheme: text which incorporates parentheses and dashes, as well as the usual spot
    marks, is very lively. \r\n\r\nSo, for an aside, nothing beats parentheses, and
    then a hearty dash will plunge the reader right back into the main text stream.
    \r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nI also find that in (stacked) bulleted lists, the bullet can
    be a bit strong, and the period-centered a bit weak, while a dash can provide
    just the right amount of emphasis. A hyphen always looks like something's missing."
  created: '2005-07-07 10:59:34'
- author:
    name: alphapeta
  body: "Nice Jason. I got to grips with most of the content within Mr Bringhurts
    'Elements of Typographic Style' a few years back. I would advise any student wishing
    to further their knowledge within typography to indulge. It still sits upon my
    desktop. While I was learning I would try and take something from it every day
    \u2026 and then when time for seminar grouping, I would impress the group with
    my knowledge of horizontal motion. And I'm being specifically typographic here."
  created: '2005-07-08 21:36:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Jason, did you finish this or remove and replace it? Is this available still?
  created: '2006-02-07 21:17:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>...leverage punctuation to maximize the visual interest...brisk and exciting</em>\r\n\r\nLiberating
    isn't it? Adds to your expressive range. I've done the same kind of leveraging
    ever since writing with word processors.\r\n\r\nEm dash is dynamic punctuation.
    It adds movement to a cast of characters dominated by verticality, making it ideal
    for emphasis or shift of emphasis. In effect you're throwing the reader's eye
    to the right---with an opening em dash---and sucking the eye leftwards with a
    closing em dash. The forward shift works for a solo em dash as well.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mncz
      picture: 110221
    body: jason, I would like to download your checklist, but the link doesn't seem
      to be working. Many thanks to Nick, his file was mighty useful to me:).
    created: '2006-02-10 10:57:45'
  created: '2006-02-08 11:18:25'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Likewise.\r\nHTML should be okay with em&#151; and en&#150; dashes, shouldn't
    it?\r\n\r\n___________________________________________________\r\nEver since I
    chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2006-02-10 11:49:31'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: I pulled the lists down a while ago while cleaning up my server directories,
    as I'd meant to update the list and re-post it, then got side-tracked. I'll do
    the update this weekend and get a copy back up here for download. I hope it's
    proven and continues to be useful.
  created: '2006-02-10 20:19:50'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: I'd like to see this, I was planning on taking notes as I read through Elements
    Of Typographic Style and compiling a similar PDF!
  created: '2006-02-10 20:29:46'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I've added a few things to be added in more detail to the first page of the
    list, but I really need to do an overhaul on this thing. For the moment, however,
    here's a copy for those who want to take a look. It is, of course & still, a work
    in progress and only a collection of bits & pieces.\r\n\r\nJust received a copy
    of Mitchell & Wightman's <a href=\"http://www.libanuspress.co.uk/\" target=\"_blank\"><em>Book
    Typography: A Designer's Manual</em></a>, a handsomely produced edition that I'm
    eager to take a close look at in comparison/conjunction with Robert's <em>Elements</em>.
    A thorough study will likely result in a few more changes and additions to the
    list, but here's the current version for the moment:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.greenboathouse.com/dewinetz/pdf/a-typographers-checklist.pdf\"
    target=\"_blank\">Book Typography Checklist</a> (v.5)"
  created: '2006-02-11 00:53:19'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nJason: Thanks for posting the checklist. It's always helpful to
    see how others do things. \r\n\r\nI have a couple of questions about urls. I'm
    on the first of 8 books that are peppered with urls -- I'd rather start right
    than go back and fix things.\r\n\r\nI find it odd to remove the http:// when the
    address is not preceded by www, especially when the address is buried in text.
    Is this really standard practice? (Guess I'm a little behind on that one.)\r\n\r\nWhen
    the url appears at the end of a sentence within a paragraph, it seems awkward
    to not include a period. How do you handle those instances? \r\n\r\nFrom the discussion
    in this thread I gather this would be the best way of presenting the following
    sentence:\r\n\r\nPour obtenir plus d'information, visitez notre site Web \xE0
    l'adresse design.concordia.ca/\r\n\r\nThanks for the help. \r\n\r\nOh, an aside:
    Jason, I contacted rob mclennan to try and get a copy of your chapbook from him,
    but he's all out. He highly recommended your book, so I'll be looking for it in
    stores here. If I don't find it, I'll order a copy. I'm looking forward to reading
    it immensely.\r\n\r\nKristina\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-02 15:44:32'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Hi Kristina,\r\n\r\nI tend to set URLs in (non-breaking) italics, and if
    I had one ending a sentence (which has never come up - almost every instance I've
    run into has the URL enclosed in parentheses) I would, indeed, set it as you have
    in your example. The main thing if a reader types in the URL exactly as you've
    set it, they'll get where they want to go. If you include a closing period, they
    won't.\r\n\r\nps. I have a handful of copies of the above/ground chapbook if you'd
    like one. Contact me off-list for details and to say hello.\r\n\r\npps. Sorry
    for not responding sooner; I was out of commission for the a month and have now
    been busy making up lost time.\r\n\r\nJason"
  created: '2006-04-07 01:50:41'
date: '2005-06-05 03:31:40'
node_type: forum
title: Typographic checklist...

---
