---
author:
  name: William Berkson
  picture: 110306
body: "In this thread: http://typophile.com/node/12902\r\n\r\nChris Keegan says: \r\n\r\n>Sorry,
  but I always chuckle when I see someone make a comment like \u201C\u2026so expensive\u201D\r\n>There
  should be a list \u201CTop Ten Things Not To Say On Typofile\u201D\r\n\r\nSo here's
  a few more:\r\n\r\n\"Can anyone send me free the Adobe Type Library?\"\r\n\r\n\"With
  Helvetica and Times New Roman being so great, \r\nwho really needs new fonts?\"\r\n\r\n\"Those
  Armenians are so damn aggressive and bellicose, \r\nwhy can't they be nice like
  the Israelis?\"\r\n\r\n\"Comic Sans is my favorite typeface. I just love it.\"\r\n\r\n\"We
  all need to thank the American capitalism for \r\ncreating computer type design.
  God bless George Bush.\"\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Ouch!!!\r\n\r\nThis is going to hurt! :-D\r\n\r\n<em>(Decides to stay clear
    from General Discussions for the foreseeable future).</em>"
  created: '2005-06-07 20:40:57'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: Don't forget "free, bundled font".
  created: '2005-06-07 21:15:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\u201CThose Armenians are so damn aggressive and bellicose,\r\nwhy can\u2019t
    they be nice like the Israelis?\u201D\r\n\r\nTellingly, there are of course only
    two countries on this\r\nearth where you could actually get away with saying that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-07 21:30:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Can someone name this typeface from only one letter--and I need the answer
    REALLY fast!\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-07 21:55:03'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: My favorites are what is the typeface of the (blank) logo or sports team.
    Multimillion corporations using off the rack typefaces for their idenity, yeah
    right.
  created: '2005-06-07 22:44:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I just had to share this "Aoccdrnig to rscheearch at Cmabrigde uinervtisy...
  created: '2005-06-07 22:45:49'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "\"Blackletter is only of historical interest or for Nazis.\"\r\n\r\n\"Berthold's
    approach to protecting their intellectual property is reasonable.\"\r\n\r\n\"With
    a little makeready, digital photopolymer can easily match the quality and craftsmanship
    of any letterpress printer.\"\r\n\r\n\"Goudy is the greatest type designer in
    history.\"\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-07 23:11:56'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "What, he isn't? :-D\r\n\r\nA popular one in the Type Identification Board:
    \"Can you name a free font similar to...\"\r\n\r\n<em>I know I know I couldn't
    help myself. I feared this would turn into something nasty but it didn't.</em>"
  created: '2005-06-07 23:36:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Is there going to be a TypeCon this year?
  created: '2005-06-07 23:44:56'
- author:
    name: bergamot
  body: Apparently, "<a href = "http://typophile.com/node/12714">I like Futura</a>".
  created: '2005-06-07 23:58:31'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "feck off you arses... you know nothing about designing solutions for others.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://ascenderfonts.com/Merchant2/merchant.mvc?Screen=SFNT&Store_Code=AF&Affiliate=Connare\"
    target=_blank>Ascender's Most Popular</A>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-08 00:03:30'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "\u201CWhatchamacallit, <em>Cyrillic</em> ? Cool... Okay, this is what you
    do:       ...\u201D"
  created: '2005-06-08 00:41:54'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Disclaimer: \r\nThose were **jokes** folks. \r\nI don't agree with either
    them or their opposites. \r\nThey were supposed to be a finely tuned mix \r\nof
    idiocy and typophile-incorrectness. \r\nI like everyone else's also. More, please! "
  created: '2005-06-08 01:10:44'
- author:
    name: armin
    picture: 110197
  body: "\"To make an italic, I just apply a 15\xB0 slant to everything, right?\"\r\n\r\n\"It's
    so easy to make a typeface, all you have to do is draw half the characters and
    then flip them: w for m; d for b, p and q; t for j; 6 for 9. See? Easy.\"\r\n\r\n\"I
    just downloaded a whole font that looks like the Metallica logo. Woohoo!\"\r\n\r\n\"Man,
    I just came back from Germany, they sell the best bringhursts with sauerkraut
    I have ever tasted. Better than any ballpark.\"\r\n\r\n\"Jonathan Cranbrook is
    a great type designer\"\r\n\r\n\"And that Tobias Hoefler, great guy!\"\r\n\r\n\"Doesn't
    Hrant have anything else to do?\"\r\n\r\nThank you folks, I'll be here all week!"
  created: '2005-06-08 01:25:57'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: A nice typeface is like a beautiful woman, curvy in all the right places.
    - me
  created: '2005-06-08 02:26:59'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "\"I think I know enough about type\"\r\n\r\n\"I'm in a contest, so please,
    \xBFCould you guys identify this font for me?\"\r\n\r\n\"Who wants to exchange
    fonts?\"\r\n\r\n\"I just found this amazing site where you can download totally
    free fonts like Mostra, Manticore, Panoptica and even some weird stuff called
    Maral\"\r\n\r\n\"Legibility\"\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-06-08 04:09:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201CLegibility\u201D\r\n\r\nNow that's funny.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-08 05:15:10'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "reading speed is even funnier. ;^D\r\n\r\nand i think most things that i
    say on typophile could be on the \"what not to say\" list."
  created: '2005-06-08 05:42:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I''m going to -insert name of major city-, and I''d like you to suggest some
    interesting type related things for me to do while I''m there. '
  created: '2005-06-08 06:58:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Go to the second alley off of Main street and\r\nrummage in the dumpsters
    for some found type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-08 07:02:17'
- author:
    name: smarks
    picture: 109688
  body: "\"ITC Garamond really is the best of all the Garamond revivals.\"\r\n\r\n\"Why
    can't you stick to the fonts that came with the computer?\"\r\n\r\n\"Can you suggest
    a font I could use for a document I'm preparing? It needs to be finished tomorrow.
    Thanks!\"\r\n\r\n\"What's wrong with letterspacing blackletter? I do it all the
    time.\"\r\n\r\ns'marks\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-08 08:05:25'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "\"Did anyone notice that I stretched this font 30 percent?\"\r\n\"Am I the
    only one who stares at my menu like a crazy person?\"\r\n\"Is Trajan that font
    used on all those movie posters?\"\r\n\"There's no need for any new fonts.\"\r\n\"Anyone
    know the designer of the Papa Roach font?\"\r\n:)\r\n\r\nbj"
  created: '2005-06-08 08:22:50'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: '"Why is Arial not called Helvetica?"'
  created: '2005-06-08 15:17:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I got this font from a friend and I want to know what free software I can
    get to automatically make a whole family out of it?\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-08 15:47:53'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "\"Why is 'don't look like crap' in my post now?\"\r\n\r\n\"Bundled fonts
    are great!\"\r\n\r\n\"I didn't get my membership! I've waited MONTHS! I want my
    money back. I hate all of you!\"\r\n\r\n\"Man, I <i>love</i> the new typefaces
    Microsoft comissioned.\"\r\n\r\n\"So, do is the Mac better than the PC for fonts?
    What about Quark and InDesign?\""
  created: '2005-06-08 16:13:27'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: this is turning into a FAQs thread now...
  created: '2005-06-08 16:21:20'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: "I've made a decent income by choosing type design.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-08 16:27:51'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: How about this - "I love Comic Sans"
  created: '2005-06-08 16:41:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I gave that one above, and Vincent Connare rather understandably did
    not appreciate the humor. It *will* lead to the Nth time this has been rehashed
    and has got very tired even for those who of us who are not Vince. \r\n\r\nBut
    for the record I do think Comic Sans can look great in the right setting. I saw
    a wonderful use of it, and will take a picture and post it later in another thread. "
  created: '2005-06-08 17:12:35'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Nice try, William... :-D
  created: '2005-06-08 17:16:01'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: '"We already talked about this upthread/in a different thread/on Alpha Centauri."'
  created: '2005-06-08 17:33:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Nice try, William\u2026 \r\n\r\n\"Oh ye of little faith.\" (I won't be in
    that city for another few weeks...)"
  created: '2005-06-08 17:43:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Sorry William, must have missed that one. I figured it had been beaten to
    death already, but was the best I could come up with :)
  created: '2005-06-08 19:06:44'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: '"If I can''t post anonymously and insult people then I''m taking my toys
    and going home."'
  created: '2005-06-08 22:43:00'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Glad <em>that's</em> over with.
  created: '2005-06-08 23:09:03'
- author:
    name: smarks
    picture: 109688
  body: "For the sake of completeness,\r\n\r\n\u20184. Do <em>not</em> misspell \u201CTypophile\u201D.\u2019\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-08 23:51:54'
- author:
    name: cedilla
    picture: 110020
  body: "\"who needs accents anyways ?\"\r\n\r\n\"can you send me your new font so
    i can test it ?\"\r\n\r\n\"i never use serifs\"\r\n\r\n\"David Carson invented
    post-modernism\""
  created: '2005-06-09 03:12:23'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em>\u201CCan you send me your new font so I can test it ?\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nHey,
    there's nothing wrong with <a href=\"http://www.typographer.org/\" target=\"new\">that</a>!?"
  created: '2005-06-09 08:38:32'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Some of my favourite sayings (heard in my classroom) include:\r\n\r\nWhat\u2019s
    a tick mark again?\r\nI think I need an Old School typeface.\r\nI didn\u2019t
    distort the type. I just expanded it a bit.\r\nI WANT THIS TO STAND OUT SO I SET
    THE PARAGRAPH ALL IN UPPERCASE. THAT\u2019S ALRIGHT, ISN\u2019T IT?\r\nWhat size
    is the best size to set type at?\r\nI underlined this bit of type to emphasize
    it.\r\n\r\n(This is fun!)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-09 15:44:41'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "How about \u201CI\u2019m graduating from design school and need to write
    a paper. What should I write about? The paper is due tomorrow.\u201D"
  created: '2005-06-09 15:58:51'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: Bring back the old Typophile!
  created: '2005-06-09 17:01:34'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "\"I love Apple\"\r\n\"I think the Ipod is better than an <a href=\"http://www.dpreview.com/news/0410/04101203epson_p2000.asp\"
    target=_blank>Epson P-200 \"</A>\r\n\" Windows users rule and are smarter than
    dumb designers \"\r\n\"Linux rocks\"\r\n\"Intel inside\"\r\n\"George Bush deserves
    a doctorate in English\"\r\n\"I hate Comic Sans and I want to make some money
    saying that\"\r\n\"my wife hates <a href=\"http://www.melissasquiltsncrafts.com/custommagnet.htm\"
    target=_blank>Comic Sans and doesn't do quilt making</A>"
  created: '2005-06-09 18:21:27'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: Pass the houmous, please!
  created: '2005-06-09 18:23:19'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: 'How about: "Enjoy your successful career and revel in the fact that you''ve
    created something that sparks fiery debate."'
  created: '2005-06-09 19:24:36'
- author:
    name: Brendan Callahan
    picture: 110567
  body: '"I''ll get rich quick with type, right?"'
  created: '2005-06-09 19:44:02'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Who makes money saying he/she hates Comic Sans? Sounds like a good scam.
    :-)\r\n\r\nOh, and Sergej, you sound like a broken old record, repeating yourself
    endlessly..."
  created: '2005-06-09 19:53:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i think he realises that and that's why he posted that statement in this thread.
    ;^)
  created: '2005-06-09 20:00:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"i think he realises that and that\u2019s why he posted that statement in
    this thread. ;^)\"\r\n\r\nI think Paul is right.  Sergei made a funny--laughing
    at ones self is a healthy sign.  Good one Sergei!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-09 20:48:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Perhaps we need a thread on the top ten things \"to say\" on TP if you want
    to be taken seriously. I'll start you off...\r\n\r\n\"Mac OS 8 is so much a better
    platform for font design than Tiger\"\r\n\r\nSi\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-09 21:37:51'
- author:
    name: e341
  body: "I got one:\r\n\r\n\"Is Neville Brody gonna be at that conference?\""
  created: '2005-06-09 23:48:28'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "\u201CIs it true helvetica is a look-alike of arial, or is that just an akzidenz?\u201D\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-06-10 00:05:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"... or is that just an akzidenz?\u201D\"\r\n\r\nThat is a grotesque statement
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-10 00:29:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually, Brody was at the Thessaloniki conference of 2004, and I ended up
    liking him, which I didn't expect to.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-10 01:03:46'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Neville is a very friendly, really, zero bullshit superstar attitude. I liked
    him a lot when I still was at FontShop. <em>It's not that I don't like him now,
    I just that haven't seen him in ages.</em>
  created: '2005-06-10 01:09:06'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Still with the Things Not To Say:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/12618\"
    target=\"new\">\"No offense to the person who designed it with Solex, but if I
    was your art director I hadn\u2019t let it out\u2026\"</a>"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Si_Daniels
      picture: 110446
    body: "Carson was the no-show at Thessa. I wonder if Klimis ever got his money
      back?\r\n\r\nSi"
    created: '2005-06-10 03:25:49'
  created: '2005-06-10 01:12:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "From the airline? Right.\r\n\r\nI'd actually like to \"tell all\" concerning
    what happened (at least the version I heard), but do you think I'd risk a libel
    suit or something? BTW, something sort of similar happened with Ken Garland at
    the Beirut conference. People, beware celebrity! Go for content instead, please.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-10 07:12:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "For those that were not there, basically at the beginning of the conference
    the organizer announced that due to illness David Carson had to cancel \u2013
    news greeted with groans from the many students in attendance. \r\n\r\nThe organizer
    expressed his disappointment and commented that for the cost of flights and expenses
    they could have had paid for an additional 20 to 30 Greek presenters, and that
    they\u2018d try to reclaim the money somehow \u2013 I expect they meant from the
    airline for the unused tickets, but I had visions of them turning up on Carson\u2019s
    doorstep ;-)\r\n\r\nAnyway Carson\u2019s talk was replaced with an excellent informal
    Q&A session with Erik and Neville.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m sure there\u2019s a more elaborate
    back-story to the episode, but I guess we\u2019ll have to buy Hrant a pint in
    New York or Helsinki to hear it.\r\n\r\n\u201CGo for the content and the food\u201D\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si \r\n"
  created: '2005-06-10 15:52:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, at first the flight was rescheduled due to a [presumed] doctor's appointment;
    because of the short notice, only first class was available; but then it was a
    plain no show... Total waste: $8000.\r\n\r\nIn the Garland case there <strong>was</strong>
    the context of recent political/security instability, but in the end that seemed
    like a scapegoat.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-10 16:47:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris Keegan's idea started this thread, but I think from the reaction here
    I can declare a clear winner of the \"#1 Thing Not To Say on Typophile\":\r\n\r\n\"I
    love Comic Sans.\"\r\n\r\nFor those who want the full story, see the interview
    of Vincent Connare on <a href=\"http://www.manic.com.sg/blog/archives/000118.php\">Snog
    Blog</a>. \r\n\r\nIt includes this memorable quote from Vincent Connare:\r\n\r\n\"If
    you love it, you don't know much about typography and if you hate it you really
    don't know much about typography either and you should get another hobby.\""
  created: '2005-06-10 17:27:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '"When will registration be availabe on the <a href="http://www.typecon.com/">TypeCon</a>
    site?"'
  created: '2005-06-10 17:40:43'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "<cite>Well, at first the flight was rescheduled due to a [presumed] doctor\u2019s
    appointment; because of the short notice, only first class was available; but
    then it was a plain no show\u2026 Total waste: $8000.\r\nIn the Garland case there
    was the context of recent political/security instability, but in the end that
    seemed like a scapegoat.<cite>\r\n\r\nHrant, you <em>insider!</em>\r\n\r\nAaaanyway.
    Just for the record, Ken had an Israeli entry stamp on his passport, which precluded
    his entering Lebanon. Unfortunately speakers were told about this quite late,
    so there was no time for him to get a new one issued. So we can put the 'political
    instability scapegoat' theory to rest, then.\r\n "
  created: '2005-06-10 18:22:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If I manage to get the dirt in Greece, just guess at the potential in my
    home town! :-)\r\n\r\nIt's true people should have been told earlier about that
    restriction. But everybody -not least the British embassy- went out of their way
    to get him a second passport that he could have used just for that trip, with
    time to spare. So I think it wasn't kosher.\r\n\r\nBack when US citizens were
    forbidden to travel to Lebanon, the Lebanese embassy would give people visas on
    a piece of paper that you'd tuck away. Us Lebanese can <strong>always</strong>
    find a back door... not unlike you Greeks! :-)  Hmmm, so maybe Klimis had luck
    with the airline after all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-10 18:56:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"\u201CWhen will registration be availabe on the TypeCon site?\u201D\"\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of that, I just noticed that TYPECON REGISTRATION IS AVAILABLE!!!\r\n\r\nBravo
    Tiffany!, you have prevailed over all the slings and arrows :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-10 19:58:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just registered for TypeCon.  I wonder if I was the first to register?
    Tiff?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-10 20:13:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I am simply the messenger. Tamye is the one who <em>is</em> prevailing over
    the slings and arrows. =^D I don't know if you were the first, Chris, you probably
    didn't beat me! ;^D
  created: '2005-06-10 22:13:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"... I don\u2019t know if you were the first, Chris, you probably didn\u2019t
    beat me! ;^D\"\r\n\r\nDamn insider, beaten again :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-10 22:21:21'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "On the thread topic:\r\n\r\n\"I'm a student, so it's ok for me to use unlicensed
    type.\""
  created: '2005-06-11 01:26:53'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: please remember to close your html tags.
  created: '2005-06-11 04:01:42'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: '"I''ve been developing a completely revolutionary font technology, but I
    can''t really talk about it now for patent reasons."'
  created: '2005-06-11 04:35:05'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "\u201CWe all need to thank the American capitalism for\r\ncreating computer
    type design. God bless George Bush.\u201D\r\n\r\nYup, we sure do! Think of how
    many great artistic fonts could be made without the dreaded \"MARKET.\" Hey! BACK
    IN THE USSR! That was such a great place, and they didn't even believe in God!
    Hey let us throw in some Antisemitism too! Diversity! Woo Hoo!\r\n\r\nHey you,
    whoever you may be, American capitalism has brought us all this wonderful technology
    that we as type and font lovers use each day, and without this most everyone here
    would not be even close to Brooklyn (Linotype). You would also probably still
    be on a paste-up board, if you were lucky.\r\n\r\nBrighten your attitude and have
    a little apreciation for a culture that is different from your utopia.\r\n\r\nRodi\r\n\r\nThe
    Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2005-06-18 02:45:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Brighten your attitude\r\n\r\nTry telling that to the sweat shop workers
    who enable you to drive SUVs, while conveniently ignoring that the 20th century
    was the worst in human history, and the 21st is looking much, much worse already.
    Instead of worrying about past anti-Semitic name-calling, worry about actual genocides
    which go conveniently ignored, and wars of intolerance carried out by so-called
    \"civilized\", democratic nations.\r\n\r\nGood type exsits largely <strong>in
    spite</strong> of Capitalism, Communism, or any other system. Like Eric Gill explains
    in \"Essay on Typography\", people -at least some people- have a desire to create
    quality no matter how much the system wants to coerce them to become cogs in the
    machine.\r\n\r\nBashing the USSR - how provincial and petty. At least the people
    living in the USSR knew there was a problem; the brainwashed peons on this side
    of the Atlantic think everything is just peachy! Little do they realize that the
    reduction from two superpowers to one opened the doors to a quantum leap in the
    usurping of mankind, to make the rich richer. Capitalism (not the same thing as
    Materialism, which is fully half of the human reality) is anti-culture, anti-type,
    anti-human. The cute little technological side-benefits (like better font formats)
    do not even dent the large-scale destruction being wrought on our Earth. Look
    up from your electronic gadgets long enough to observe what's really going on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: hankzane
      picture: 110181
    body: Hey Hrant, I didn't know you were such a pessimist!
    created: '2005-06-18 15:09:11'
  created: '2005-06-18 04:17:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Groan\r\n\r\nAs I said, it was not 100% true or false, but finely tuned to
    infuriate.\r\n\r\nAre you guys going to make me explain the joke? "
  created: '2005-06-18 04:51:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think some people would rather buff the neo-classical columns adorning
    daddy's Connecticut mansion(s). Those columns, however, are distinctly hollow.\r\n\r\nAnd
    you, William, should see the contradiction in your position. Ask yourself why
    a bigoted tyrant would be so obsessed with forcing <strong>Democracy</strong>
    down everybody's throat.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-18 05:11:59'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: '"I love Rotis. I think it is good type design"'
  created: '2005-06-18 10:54:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Let them eat cake\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-18 16:56:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sergej, Realism and Hope are not incompatible.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-18 18:24:54'
- author:
    name: smarks
    picture: 109688
  body: "I think that \u201CI love Comic Sans\u201D has been displaced from its #1
    position on the list of Things Not To Say On Typophile.\r\n\r\ns'marks\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-18 18:43:58'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: '"bubble letters"'
  created: '2005-06-19 05:59:49'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: S'marks, that's perfect... the debate over politics/world views is much more
    heated than any Comic Sans discussion will ever get.
  created: '2005-06-20 05:49:02'
- author:
    name: tornadorx
    picture: 110765
  body: what about using "quotes" for emphasis of "things" like "sales?" that's perfectly
    fine, right? and type on a path is cool. especially if it's marker felt or arial.
  created: '2005-06-20 18:22:41'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: "Here's my contribution:\r\n\r\n- Apostrophe was framed!\r\n\r\n- Where's
    my t-shirt? I signed up 10 minutes ago.\r\n\r\n- (any reference to Berthold)\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 02:22:34'
- author:
    name: jay
    picture: 110472
  body: "I would think that \"I love Chalkboard\" would be more toxic than \"I love
    Comic Sans\"...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 20:09:10'
date: '2005-06-07 20:36:05'
title: Top Ten Things Not To Say on Typophile

---
