---
author:
  name: dan_reynolds
  picture: 110440
body: "I think I just found the worst use of [[Fette Fraktur]] ever.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://ratzingerfanclub.com/\">http://ratzingerfanclub.com/</a>\r\n\r\nThe
  webmasters must have been thinking, \"oh, oh, he's German!!!\"\r\n\r\nI can think
  of many Blackletters that could speak volumes about Pope Benedict XIV, either for
  or against (depending on type choice, layout, etc). This doen neither. Instead,
  it speaks volumes bout the general publics understanding of typographic history
  :("
comments:
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I think the problem with many people in specialized fields is that they (we)
    often forget what its like to be a neophyte or a design civilian. You can't expect
    everyone to be on the same playing field. I think Fraktur is a nice face and it
    doesn't look that bad in the application. \r\n\r\nI think blackletter is a speciality
    of yours Dan...Could you name some better alternatives for those of us who aren't
    as knowledgable about the style? :)"
  created: '2005-06-09 19:03:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The Ratzinger fan club has some hilarious stuff on Caf\xE9 Press. I know
    someone who bought an RFC beer stein that said 'Putting the smackdown on heresy
    since 1982'."
  created: '2005-06-09 19:19:08'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Blackletter isn't always blackletter\u2026 I like Fette Frakture. I just
    don't like it in this application, because I think that it is inappropriately
    spec'd. I would react the same way if something equally as wierd, like Hobo, would
    be on the screen.\r\n\r\nFette Fraktur is one of the best Romanticist frakturs.
    For Revolution of 1848 things, or for 19th Century-type Gem\xFCtlichkeit advertisements,
    it is great. There is a local museum in the next town over with the word \"Heimatmuseum\"
    painted across it in Fette Fraktur. Just perfect!\r\n\r\nThis site seems to be
    a legit fan club (if it was tounge-in-cheek, like www.whitehouse.com, then a real
    Nazi-like [[Schaftsteiffelgrotesk]] like [[Tannenberg]] would be appropriate).
    I would recommend something really Catholic and old-school. Like a [[textura]].
    \r\n\r\nThese can be hard to come by in digital form. But [[Karlgeorg Hoefer]]'s
    Notre Dame is a start. Or maybe something Reformation/Counterreformation. Benedict
    the XIV strikes me as a real Counterreformation-type of guy, even though I've
    heard that he admires Martin Luther. Why not get the best of both typographic
    world and use a [[Swabacher]]? [[Elsner + Flake]]'s Alte Schwabacher is good.
    Another good choice might be a real decorative Bavarian fraktur, something that
    would fit in on a beer label from one of the brewery's near Benedict XIV's home
    town. That might seem wierd, but it would have a lot more of a tangible connection
    that this!\r\n\r\nBlackletter can be so lyric (here is just one <a href=\"http://www.typeoff.de/?p=27\">example</a>,
    which I happend to photgraph today). Fette Fraktur is a great old jobbing face.
    But it has nothing to do with Benedict XIV, the Catholic Church, or this funny
    website.\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-09 21:28:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "John, my father sent me this via e-mail today:\r\n\r\n<em>I ran across this
    web page during the sede vacante.\r\n\r\nIf you are willing to overlook the fact
    that Ratzinger is against free speech, he's a great guy.\r\n\r\nI look forward
    to the day when he either retires or dies. Either way, I doubt that he will return
    to Bavaria.</em>\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-09 21:32:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dan, I think you should be beside yourself\r\nwith relief that they didn't
    use Comic Sans.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-09 22:20:51'
- author:
    name: jkimberling
    picture: 110728
  body: test
  created: '2005-06-09 22:54:41'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Being that his new home is Rome, you'd think they'd use something more...
    Roman. =)
  created: '2005-06-09 23:46:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>If you are willing to overlook the fact that Ratzinger is against free
    speech, he\u2019s a great guy.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think he is against free speech.
    In his role as prefect of the Congregation, he insisted that people teaching <em>in
    Catholic institutions</em> should agree not to teach anything contrary to Church
    doctrine. That doesn't seem to me an unreasonable requirement, and people not
    willing to accept that requirement left and went to teach at non-Catholic institutions.
    They continue to publish and to teach, just not in Catholic colleges.\r\n\r\nDuring
    the twenty-two years that Ratzinger headed the Congregation, only one theologian,
    Tissa Balasuriya, was excommunicated: for misrepresenting the doctrine of original
    sin and casting doubts on the divinity of Christ. If one doesn't accept such basic
    Christian beliefs, it seems to me one effectively excommunicates oneself <em>latae
    sententiae.</em> The excommunication was rescinded only a year later, after discussions
    in which Balasuriya clarified his opinions to the satisfaction of the Holy See.
    Ironically, given the charge that Ratzinger is opposed to free speech, the most
    important thing that came out of the whole Balasuriya episode, were new norms
    of investigation by the Congregation <em>aimed at safeguarding the rights of theologians
    accused of unorthodox opinions.</em>\r\n\r\nThe only other excommunications during
    Ratzinger's time at the Congregation were of seven women who were illicitly ordained
    by a schismatic priest, himself illicitly declared a 'bishop' by a schismatic
    sect."
  created: '2005-06-10 00:06:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> for misrepresenting the doctrine of original sin\r\n> and casting doubts
    on the divinity of Christ.\r\n\r\nStill, Balasuriya seems a \"saint\" compared
    to this [commendably sincere] fellow:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/world/europe/3795411.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-10 01:05:15'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I'm often amazed at how people want to push notions of 'free speech' onto
    private organizations like churches, the 4H Club, the Boy Scouts, et cetera. Ironically,
    people pushing that agenda are treading on the free speech of the very organizations
    they claim to want to improve. Corporations  and public (governmental) institutions
    are one thing, but private organizations (clubs, private schools, churches, newspapers)
    are quite another.\r\n\r\nWhy should you or anybody else have to apologize for
    a religious leader calling their followers to follow (and removing from their
    positions of authority those who will not)? The notion of a God-run organization
    (as the Catholic church purports to be) answering to the will of the people is
    strange at best and heretical at worst.\r\n\r\nIf you disagree with Catholicism
    or any other organization, club or institution, go get enlightened and create
    your own. (Speaking highly simplistically of course.)"
  created: '2005-06-10 01:17:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>the Boy Scouts</em>\r\n\r\nI'm an Eagle Scout, and I worked for the Boy
    Scouts of America locally for a brief time. During that time, a regional manager
    gave us the \"official speech\" regarding homosexuality. Until that point, I had
    always argued (vehemently), that as a private organization, the Boy Scouts of
    America had a right (upheld by the US Supreme Ciurt on multiple occasions) to
    choose its own memebership policiies. After I discovered what the people who ran
    the organization were really like, I lost a lot of my resepect. Basically, he
    told us (after making some insulting remarks not just about homosexuals, but also
    about journalists, democrats, and Americans in general) that the organization
    could not admit gay leaders because one church had threatend the organization
    with cutting off all funds should they change their policy. I won't name this
    church, but it was at the time the biggest ecclesiastic financial supporter of
    the organization, and had told the Scouts that it would even form a <em>counter</em>
    movement, should the organizers get out of line.\r\n\r\nThat was not moral values
    (on behalf of the Scouts, I mean\u2026 on the church's part, maybe). Money was
    more important to them than holding on to a belief or making a stand. I would
    have had more respect for them if the talk had been something like, \"we think
    this is wrong. period.\" But that was not the case.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>If you disagree
    with Catholicism or any other organization, club or institution, go get enlightened
    and create your own. (Speaking highly simplistically of course.)</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    the Catholic Church has a long history of being reformed from within. It has been
    a cycle for over a millenium. Of course one has to hold on to a certain set of
    beliefs to be a Catholic. But there are certain traditions within the Church that
    are not doctrinal. That Jesus is divine, the resurrection, etc, that IS Doctrine.
    The Immaculate Conception and Mary's Assumption into Heaven, even the Papal infallability
    that made these beliefs dogmatic, those are Doctrine, too. How the Church will
    live in the modern world is not a dogmatic decision to be made, but rather a question
    of dialogue, love, charity, and relationships (with God, and with each other).\r\n\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-10 06:03:42'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: "I like the use of Fette on that site. \r\nAnd really I don't agree with the
    worst use/best use co-ordinate for typography. Choosing the 'right type for the
    job' is highly personal and depends upon what type is at your disposal.\r\n\r\nnewlyn.com"
  created: '2005-06-10 16:50:27'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.cafepress.com/ratzfanclub.12586147\r\nYou really wouldn't expect
    this badge to have a reflection would you?\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-06-10 16:54:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The Church is in the late stages of her 500-year cultural struggle with protestantism,
    which is now primarily a struggle with the highly sucessful materialist and effectively
    atheist societies that protestantism has produced. As you say, Dan, the Church
    has a long history of reform from within, but the sign of that reform has always
    been that the Church cleaves <em>more faithfully</em> to its perrenial teachings,
    i.e. that it to some degree withdraws from its engagement with the world and the
    values of the world, and reaffirms its distinctiveness from the world. As Christ
    said to his apostles: 'You are in the world but you do not belong to the world'.
    This is what the Church is called to be: in the world but not of the world. So
    the question 'how will the Church live in the modern world?', cannot be framed
    in terms of the values of the world -- which are in any case inconstant and largely
    deterministic --, because as soon as you frame it that way you have already surrendered
    and given up on your vocation. These things that you list: dialogue, love, charity*,
    and relationships are exactly right, because they are part of that vocation, and
    also because, genuinely pursued, they are counter to the simultaneously sentimental
    and cynical values of our society, which treat dialogue, love, charity, and relationships
    as either 'warm feelings' of license or as means to power and possession.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n*
    Charity, of course, <em>is love;</em> specifically, Christian love, as distinct
    from eros and also from agape. The principle quality of charity that distinguishes
    it from other forms of love is freedom. There is a deterministic element to both
    eros and agape, in that each is preceded by a bond (of attraction or of family)."
  created: '2005-06-10 17:17:01'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: How did the Inquisition figure into this concept of Christian love?
  created: '2005-06-11 04:38:53'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "<cite> Instead, it speaks volumes bout the general publics understanding
    of typographic history :(</cite>\r\n\r\nDan and everyone:\r\nWhat do you think
    the general public's understanding of typographic history should be?"
  created: '2005-06-11 05:30:23'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I would be happy if people understood that different fonts represent different
    historical periods, and are often influenced by specific national cultures or
    traditions.\r\n\r\nAlso, just as no one font = American, one font cannot equal
    French, German, Chinese, or even Armenian.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-11 11:11:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">How did the Inquisition figure into this concept of Christian love?\r\n\r\nLike
    all earthly powers, organized religion maintains its rule by doublethink, saying
    one thing and doing the opposite. Blessed are the peacemakers, indeed, but don't
    expect the Pope to tell those \"Christian\" warmakers Blair and Bush to pull their
    armies out of Iraq.\r\n\r\nThe church is conveniently, selectively \"not of this
    world\" on certain issues, splitting power over human affairs with secular governments.
    Two sides of the coin."
  created: '2005-06-11 14:06:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the highly sucessful materialist and effectively atheist societies \r\nthat
    protestantism has produced.\r\n\r\nI am an outsider to this debate, but I really
    don't see that \r\nhistorically Prostestantism has had much to do with creating
    atheism. \r\nI would have thought that had much more to do with the rise of modern
    \r\nscience, with the positivism that treated science as a surrogate \r\nreligion,
    and with Darwinism, which made it conceivable that humanity \r\nis an accident.
    Weren't Voltaire etc originally Catholic? Wasn't \r\nCompte, the founder of positivism?\r\n\r\nI
    agree with Weber etc that Protestantism had an important part in \r\ncreating
    capitalism, but I don't see the atheism bit at all. Why do \r\nyou think this?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-11 15:06:13'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>don\u2019t expect the Pope to tell those \u201CChristian\u201D warmakers
    Blair and Bush to pull their armies out of Iraq.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how
    John Paul II could have been more anti-Iraq war than he was\u2026 and he certainly
    told Bush and Blair how he felt about it. And anyone who would listen.\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-11 16:49:50'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "<cite>And anyone who would listen.</cite>\r\n\r\nSo sad that the ones in
    charge are the ones who wouldn't listen!"
  created: '2005-06-11 17:50:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well, that is very sad. It was quite intersting how poltical leaders from
    all over the world\u2014most of which never took a bit of the Pope's advice\u2014flocked
    to his funeral.\r\n\r\nAt the funeral, strange types came together. The presidents
    of Israel and Iran greeted each other, and I think they even kissed cheeks. Where
    else does that kind of coordiallity take place? Certainly not at the UN (where
    it really belongs\u2026).\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-11 17:57:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>don\u2019t expect the Pope to tell those \u201CChristian\u201D warmakers
    Blair and Bush to pull their armies out of Iraq.</em>\r\n\r\nDid you actually
    pay any attention at all to Pope John Paul's pronouncements against the war in
    Iraq, which began long before the invasion started and continued as it proceeded.
    If you are wondering about the opinion of the new pope, that too was well known
    and voiced long before he was elected: http://www.comunione-liberazione.org/articoli/eng/1/nowar.html"
  created: '2005-06-11 20:37:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Did you actually pay any attention at all to Pope John Paul\u2019s pronouncements
    against the war in Iraq\r\n\r\nIt's true that he was initially against the war,
    but my understanding is that the Vatican's position is now that the US should
    stay in Iraq to help preserve stability or whatever. Many people in the west have
    the view that, hey, it was a mistake, but we're in there so me might as well stay.
    I would be pleasantly surprised if the new Pope began a vociferous campaign to
    urge Bush and Blair to withdraw their armies."
  created: '2005-06-11 22:26:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Monotheism was the first big step towards atheism. And sans serif design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-11 22:30:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>my understanding is that the Vatican\u2019s position is now that the
    US should stay in Iraq to help preserve stability or whatever</em>\r\n\r\nI understood
    it more along the lines of: now you've created this mess, don't just walk away
    from it like you walked away from Afghanistan.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me very difficult
    to say what might be the best option for Iraq at this stage. If the US and British
    pulled out right now, civil war between the Shia and Sunni seems very likely.
    That would probably encourage the Kurds to declare an independent state in the
    north, which would alarm the Turks, and the whole situation could get very, very
    much worse than it is now. Trying to create a stable multi-ethnic and multi-religious
    state in Iraq probably strikes most people as a better option, regardless of their
    opposition to the invasion."
  created: '2005-06-11 22:43:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Trying to create a stable multi-ethnic and multi-religious state in Iraq
    probably strikes most people as a better option, regardless of their opposition
    to the invasion.\r\n\r\nNowhere should be occupied by a foreign army. \r\nSurely
    \"most people\" in Iraq would consider the better option to be for the occupying
    forces to leave, so that they can sort things out for themselves."
  created: '2005-06-12 00:17:53'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>and the whole situation could get very, very much worse than it is now.</em>\r\n\r\ndoesn't
    the bible predict that these kinds of things will happen in the end times?"
  created: '2005-06-12 02:21:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And our Steve Peter has pointed out that the White House is currently populated
    heavily by people who believe that prophesy quite literally. \"Let's get it all
    over with so we get to Heaven already...\" It is people like that who cause my
    personal opposition to the death penalty to waver.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-12 05:10:12'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nI suspect the Skull and Bones thing or Century Club or whatever
    the hell that secret society is that Bush belongs to isn't concerned so much with
    the biblical prophesy as much as it is with the sort of nationalistic translation
    that puts American as the center of Christian hope. The \"last great hope,\" but
    a bit twisted in this contemporary version. So it's not a matter of let's get
    it over so much as let's get them before they get us. The rationale is that the
    US is on the decline (and will be usurped) and so take as much as we can get while
    we can get it. Consequently, the implemented Bush Doctrine allows for first strike,
    which was previously not US policy. Basically, yeah, likely, if we are unfortunate,
    we will bring about the end of times. Note: my use of we or us had nothing to
    do with my own thinking in this regard. I'd rather we all just peaceably wait
    a couple of million years and let the Sun democratically just boil it all away,
    Fette Fraktur included.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-06-12 06:41:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>doesn\u2019t the bible predict that these kinds of things will happen
    in the end times?</em>\r\n\r\nWar and rumour of war? Yes, but then there has never
    been a time in many, many millennia when human beings somewhere on this planet
    were not engaged in war. It is a perrenial state of human affairs. So war isn't
    a very reliable indicator of coming end times.\r\n\r\nMore importantly, Christ
    urges us not to try to guess when the end will come, but instead to be always
    ready for 'the thief in the night'. I don't think the revelation, or Apocalypse,
    recorded by St John on Patmos is given so that we can read it like so many entrails
    to guess what will happen when. Rather, it is an image of the final judgement
    against which we can judge ourselves <em>now,</em> and a promise of the renewed
    creation.\r\n\r\nIdeas about the end time are one of the largest areas of disagreement
    between Catholicism/Orthodoxy and fundamentalist protestantism of the kind believed
    by many members of the Bush administration. The whole notion of 'the rapture'
    -- the taking up of the elect before the tribulation --, which is central to the
    fundamentalist hope for the Apocalypse, has never been a part of orthodox Christian
    teaching: it is the invention of late 18th and early 19th century American 'dispensationalist'
    ministers, most widely popularised by John Darby, founder of the Plymouth Bretheren.
    The word 'rapture' does not occur anywhere in the Bible: it is an English corruption
    from the Latin <em>simul rapiemur</em> (shall be caught up together) from 1 Thess
    4:15-17. Ironically, in this very passage St Paul makes it clear that he is referring
    to what happens to the just who are still alive at the time of the resurrection
    of the dead at the Second Coming. There is no way that the fundamentalist fantasy
    of the rapture can be derived from this passage."
  created: '2005-06-12 07:19:23'
date: '2005-06-09 16:23:03'
node_type: forum
title: Worst use of Fette Fraktur ever

---
