---
author:
  name: parker
  picture: 109663
body: "I have a lot of trouble with the design of the letter \"S\". Can you share
  your secrets, ideas? post a sample/template?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThank you \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n=============\r\n\r\nI
  hope I didn't mess with the thread.....\r\n\r\nok the first drawings (well....not
  the first first, but....anyway don't \"kill\" my spirit :) )"
comments:
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I know your problem is with the shape and balance of the S but as far as
    heights are concerned this is the note I placed in the <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/fdsspec/uppercase.aspx\"
    target=_blank>MS character design standards</A> and Matthew Carter's quote I recieved
    from him:\r\n\r\nNote : It is far more important the tops and bottoms of round
    characters are visually more than mathematically equal. It is common for designers
    to make some round characters, such as the uppercase S and C slightly smaller
    than the uppercase O. \r\n\r\n'I'm very unsystematic about things like the relative
    sizes of round characters, I judge them purely by eye. It's my impression that
    S and C often need to be a bit smaller than the fully-enclosed O because the openings
    in their forms make them look bigger. This applies equally to the lowercase.'\r\n\r\nComments
    on visual character heights by Matthew Carter, Carter and Cone Type, Inc. \r\n"
  created: '2005-06-12 10:22:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The S is the most difficult character.\r\n1. Try looking at your work differently:
    rotate it through 90 and 180 degrees, flip it.\r\n2. Place an outline from a typeface
    which you think is similar to yours, and has a successful S, in the layer beneath
    your outline, and inspect how it differs from your work. Harmonize the way your
    curves/stem widths vary with the example.\r\n3. Copy the top half, scale it up
    a tad, rotate through 180, and see if it works as the bottom half of your glyph."
  created: '2005-06-12 17:13:50'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: Thank you Vincent & Nick (only the Englishmen are here?  :)  only two type
    designers?)
  created: '2005-06-13 17:54:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Look closely (I mean the vertices and BCPs) at \"S\"es you think work.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-14 18:30:06'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I wonder if your trouble doesn't come from trying to digitize your drawings?
    My experience is that drawing the letter with pencil is much easier than discovering
    the right number and location of bezier points to construct the same shape. If
    this is part of the problem, try putting the points at different places, more
    or fewer points. See how few you really need, and when previewing, which points
    give the best shape. I've done my drawing with points on the left and right extremes,
    with none along the middle, reflexive curve, which seems to be the trouble area.
    Hrant's idea is good; if there's a PostScript font with an S you like, open it
    in your font editor to see how the other designer did it. \r\n\r\nOn the other
    hand, Bitstream used to test type design candidates by giving them paper and pencil
    and telling them to draw an S, freehand, without correcting anything. The resulting
    shape brought a thumbs up or thumbs down...."
  created: '2005-06-14 20:10:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "This is what I do to make an S look good, which is a bit different from the
    question of making an S. I usually have the shape in my head okay, but the difficulty
    is managing the curves with a set of bezier curves in such a way that the whole
    thing hangs together and you don't get odd bulges. I should also note that I generally
    like my S to flow, so avoid putting straight segments in the middle of the bend
    unless it is a particularly wide S, e.g. for an extended face, or a real grotesk.\r\n\r\nI've
    found the key for getting the S to look good is to ignore the middle bend completely
    while positioning most of the nodes: just let it ride free. The really important
    thing is the positioning of the nodes on the extremes of the vertical curve sections.
    You have to think of the relationship between these as what really gives the S
    its form. So you have to ignore the floppy bend in the middle and just concentrate
    on visualising the relative positions of those four nodes. <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/John/S1.gif\">[S1.gif]</a>
    Getting the two terminals in place helps at this stage, because they define the
    curves that will lead into the vertical sections, and so into the bend.\r\n\r\nOnly
    when the terminals and the nodes on the vertical sections are looking good do
    I start paying attention to the bend. I either grab the middle of the bend curves
    themselves or the control handles off the vertical nodes, and drag them until
    I have the weight I want <em>at the middle of the bend</em> and an appropriate
    relationship between the two edges. <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/John/S2.gif\">[S2.gif]</a>\r\n\r\nNow
    I draw guidelines (or sometimes just use the knife tool) between the opposing
    control handles off the verticals. Where these cross the outline defining the
    bend, I insert a node that I will use to control the middle of the bend. <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/John/S3.gif\">[S3.gif]</a>\r\n\r\nWhat
    I have now is a set of bezier curves that produce a very smooth form. I can now
    adjust the control handle on these to refine the shape. I try to avoid moving
    the nodes themselves; if a node on one of the vertical needs to be moved, it was
    probably in the wrong place to begin with, so I might delete those nodes I added
    on the bend and go back a step to ensure that my shape remains smooth. I may shift
    the position of the mid-bend nodes up or down a little, if I decide the weight
    in the middle is too light or too heavy. Usually, to get the final form I want,
    I only need to move the control handles, being careful to constrain to the tangent.
    In the final graphic <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/John/S4.gif\">[S4.gif]</a>,
    I have put the unrefined S3 form in the background as a mask layer.\r\n\r\nI no
    longer think of S as the most difficult letter. I now have a much harder time
    with the leg of the R.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-14 20:16:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>On the other hand, Bitstream used to test type design candidates by giving
    them paper and pencil and telling them to draw an S, freehand, without correcting
    anything. The resulting shape brought a thumbs up or thumbs down\u2026.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    infamous S-test. Mike Parker and Matthew Carter brought this to Bitstream from
    Linotype, where it was the standard entry test for prospective drawing office
    staff. The really nasty version involves a model S in a rectangle, and you have
    to re-draw it by hand in another rectangle of different dimensions, adjusting
    the shape of the design to the new proportions.\r\n\r\n[My favourite story regarding
    the Linotype drawing office is that of Tim Holloway, who was hired by Walter Tracy
    for a management role at Linotype. Tracy insisted that all the management have
    a working knowledge of the different aspects of the business and making of type,
    so required Tim to spend a couple of weeks in the drawing office, just to learn
    what went on there. Tim, it turned out, was a natural, much better suited to drawing
    type than to management. As I've said here before, I think Tim is one of the greatest
    living type designers, overlooked by most commentators simply because almost all
    his work has been in non-Latins.]"
  created: '2005-06-14 20:22:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, your first illustration revives a question that's long been in my head;
    it's not totally on-topic, but still: How do people (including laymen) feel about
    an \"s\" that has stroke weight distributed more towards its top-left and bottom-right
    curves, rather than its spine?\r\n\r\nBTW, the hardest letter (in Latin) is most
    definitely the lc \"g\"!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-14 22:01:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>BTW, the hardest letter (in Latin) is most definitely the lc \u201Cg\u201D!</em>\r\n\r\nI
    actually find the lowercase g not too difficult now. It was a bugger when I first
    started designing type, but it is like the lowercase a: one of the most important
    distinctive letters in a typeface, so one that I start thinking about early in
    a design. Usually, by the time I come to make the outline, the form is really
    solid in my head.\r\n\r\nAs to your other question, I'm not sure how I 'feel'
    about that kind of S, but I've never been struck by a need to design one that
    way."
  created: '2005-06-15 03:34:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, but more important in a craft are the needs of your users and readers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-15 06:23:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "If someone comes along and tells me that he can't read my typeface because
    of the form of my S, I'll consider this carefully.\r\n\r\nIf I were designing
    a really heavy, black sans serif typeface, I would be more inclined to remove
    weight from the middle of the S, to open it up a bit, than from the top or bottom.
    But if we're talking about black sans serif types we're not exactly in the realms
    of readability optimisation."
  created: '2005-06-15 20:34:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "People think you could set a book in Comic Sans, sure. The only way\r\na
    layman could actually tell you what's going on in his readability\r\n\"firmware\"
    is if you're a really good hypnotist.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-15 21:52:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have noticed that Hoefler text,Saracen, Leviathan, Meta, Lucida, Cooper
    Black, Vendetta - in other words type across all kinds of styles use wieght in
    the middle of the S. Koch's Kasbel & Nueland don't - but they are really display
    faces.\r\n\r\nHrant, is this the kind of S you are thinking of?\r\n\r\n<a href=http://freemasonry.bcy.ca/symbolism/golden_ratio/kaech/29.jpg>
    S with weight at top & bottom example image </a>"
  created: '2005-06-15 23:04:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, yes - although the irony is huge!\r\nThat there is a chirographic artefact,
    and:\r\n1) I don't like chirographic [text] fonts. My interest in the unconventional
    stroke stress in the \"s\" comes from a desire to explore and improve typography,
    irrespective of chirography.\r\n2) Certain people who do like chirographic fonts
    gayly accept the violation of the pen necessary to arrive at what they feel is
    the ideal stroke stress in the \"s\"! And the \"N\". And the \"Z\"... So their
    concern in the end isn't to maintain chirography, but to maintain the <strong>status
    quo</strong>, by any ruse and excuse necessary, including chirography as needed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-15 23:36:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You can see a more conceptually pure (not chirographic) \"prototype\" of
    the \"s\" I'm talking about by taking a narrow monoline font (like Futura Condensed)
    and stretching it wide, like 25%.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-15 23:40:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">only the Englishmen\r\n\r\nI spent the first part of my life (education)
    in England, and the next 27 years (work) in Toronto. I used to think of myself
    as fundamentally English, but acclimatized to Toronto, which is a city of immigrants
    anyway. However, I've been living back in the UK for the past 9 months, and it's
    changed so much that I rarely feel like I belong here. Of course, others of my
    age who never left have the same sense of anomie. No doubt this happen to every
    generation as it ages, but the present day is especially disappointing to boomer
    idealists. I detest nationalism (\"an infantile disease, the measles of mankind\"--
    Burgess), and have resigned myself to being a hyphenated individual: Mid-Atlantic
    or Anglo-Canadian, please."
  created: '2005-06-16 12:51:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Interesting, my approach to making an \"S\" is almost exactly the same as
    John's. I started out thinking this was because we are tackling the problem of
    type design in the same way: most of the letterforms are simply in our heads,
    and we are trying to translate those shapes in our heads to beziers. But even
    if one were to scan in drawings of everything, I'll bet one could do a very nice
    job of fitting the S curve by starting with the same approach. \r\n\r\nP.S.  Always
    nice to find something Nick and I agree on. I too detest nationalism. If one's
    own country has an innate superiority and greater worth than any other, it's a
    very short step to apply that same thinking to people from each country and dehumanizing
    those who are \"other.\" Oops, must stop before I go further off on this tangent."
  created: '2005-06-25 22:53:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> most of the letterforms are simply in our heads\r\n\r\nYou know, there's
    a definite truth to that, but there must also be a limit. We don't finalize any
    form in advance in our heads, because we can't. It seems to make much more sense
    that our thoughts and the act of fleshing them out are actually <strong>iterative</strong>.
    And this actually nicely explains the common \"happy accidents\" during the fleshing
    out, which really must be part of the nature of design.\r\n\r\nNationalism: in
    superpowers it is indeed the pits; but among threatened peoples it's nothing short
    of a requirement, trust me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-25 23:37:30'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "One can trace the arc of history, and see that many threatened peoples have
    evolved into superpowers. Mostly due to their nationalistic intentions. Once they
    are superpowers, they tend to threaten others.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-26 10:20:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "It isn't the size of the nation, but the attitude toward nationality that
    determines whether the nationalism is odious or benign. \r\n\r\nWhat is common
    to both is a sense of shared fate or welfare, and a willingness to act in concert
    for the welfare of the nation. The good kind also appreciates the strengths of
    its culture, but is also self critical. The bad kind is bigoted or arrogant or
    both. For example compare the USA nationalism of Jimmy Carter, who championed
    human rights while respecting other nations, and that of George W. Bush."
  created: '2005-06-26 18:06:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Once they are superpowers, they tend to threaten others.\r\n\r\nThat's
    another problem. It doesn't prevent nationalism (or ethnicism) from being a <strong>preserving</strong>
    force among threatened peoples. And why should citizens of superpowers (like you
    three) worry about that? Simple: cultural variety.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-26 18:13:11'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>\"imagine there's no country\u2026\"</em>\r\n\r\nWe'd all better off
    if it were so.\r\n\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-26 18:21:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But since we're not animals, that can't happen. So instead of shooting for
    one extreme (one huge nasty state for the whole planet) or the other (each individual
    his own confused little state) let's shoot for something as rewarding as it is
    tricky: Balance! Except <strong>that's</strong> looking more and more like the
    most idealistic idea of all...  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-26 18:40:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Nationalism: in superpowers it is indeed the pits; but among threatened
    peoples it\u2019s nothing short of a requirement, trust me.</em>\r\n\r\nThat seems
    to presume that the nation state is the single best way to preserve and defend
    ethnic/linguistic/religious identity (what, for simplicity, I'll call cultural
    identity). Indeed, one could argue that nationalism is the identification of cultural
    identity with the idea of the nation state, i.e. that cultural identity = national
    identity (or would do, if only one had control of the territory!). Historically
    -- at least within the remarkably brief period of time in which nation states
    have been the normative form of territorial and social organisation --, the identification
    of cultural identity with national identity has been a powerful force in the struggle
    against colonialism and, obviously, in the forging of new countries. But I don't
    think mere historical efficacy should lead us to uncritically accept the assumption
    of this identification. We can validly ask whether cultural identity can persist
    and flourish other than through identification with the nation state. We can also
    ask whether, in a cost/benefit analysis, the whole idea of the nation state might
    have done more damage to cultural identities -- especially to that of cultural
    minorities living within or across the boundaries of nation states -- than it
    has fostered them. As just one example, the Welsh cultural identity has fared
    very much better within the framework of the supra-national European Union than
    it ever did within the merely national framework of the United Kingdom."
  created: '2005-06-27 21:45:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> That seems to presume that the nation state is the single best way to preserve
    and defend\r\n\r\nNo, I was using it as a blanket/general term (which is one reason
    I parenthesizes \"ethnicism\" above). Yeah, it's not very good. But \"cultural
    identity groupism\" sound a bit clunky.  :-)\r\n\r\n> We can validly ask whether
    cultural identity can persist and\r\n> flourish other than through identification
    with the nation state.\r\n\r\nI think it can. Think of the Kurds for example,
    who have <strong>never</strong> had a nation.\r\n\r\n> We can also ask whether,
    in a cost/benefit analysis, the whole idea\r\n> of the nation state might have
    done more damage to cultural identities\r\n\r\nGood question.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-27 22:33:10'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I think that Turkey's admission to the EU might do wonders for the Kurds.
    Sadly, I don't believe that talks with Turkey are really going start in October.
    Not after France and Holland's no votes to the EU constitution, and a likely change
    of government in Berlin.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-27 23:04:53'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Nation-states are artificial constructs which serve the interests of the
    wealthiest citizens of those states, and little else. They are the successors
    to the \"great\" Italian city-states which arose during the late Middle Ages,
    and gave the world corporations, stock exchanges, letters of credit and all manner
    of financial legerdemain that troubles mankind to this day. Nation-states gained
    ascendancy as the influence of the One, Holy, Catholic and Apostolic Church declined
    in the wake of the Renaissance and the Reformation. They proclaim to be secular
    institutions, but each nation-state also proclaims, in one way or another,  that
    it\u2013and it alone\u2013has been ordained by God (whichever flavor of Whom you
    choose) to continue His work on earth. All nation-states write their own history,
    in which they are always the good guys, and each nation-state is, in its own mind
    and mythology, better than any other nation-state on the earth. So the killing
    goes on...\r\n\r\nTribal or ethnic groups are the same cosmos writ small. The
    names which the various tribes of Native Americans gave themselves are almost
    always translated as \"the human beings\" or \"the people,\" and the practice
    doesn't seem to differ much anywhere else in the world. But whether nation-state
    or tribal group, one underlying concept remains: the world is divided into Us
    and Them, and <strong>We are the Good Guys</strong>. We are the human beings;
    everyone is, well, slightly less than human. This notion even attained the status
    of the unerring word of God's chosen representative on earth, when in 1452 Pope
    Nicholas V of the aforementioned UHC&A Church proclaimed in his encyclical <em>Dum
    Diversas</em> that enslaving infidels and pagans was entirely in accordance with
    God's will and wishes. Thus, Open Season on People of Color was officially proclaimed,
    and remained the Western World's official policy for more than four hundred years
    and, unfortunately, appears to be unofficial policy even today.\r\n\r\nWhy does
    the madness continue? The German philosopher Ernst Cassirer, in his <em>Philosophy
    of History</em>, explained it very simply and very clearly:\r\n\r\n\"The past
    has no why, it <em>is</em> the why of things.\"\r\n\r\nThe past is how we got
    to <strong>now</strong>. But if <strong>now</strong> is somehow less than satisfactory
    (which seems to be the general consensus), then we aren't going to see a significantly
    different future until we put the past behind us. The brilliant blaze of sunlight
    is made up of <em>all</em> colors, and the improbable phenomenon that is mankind
    (and womankind) is made of <em>all</em> its diverse peoples. No one religion owns
    the truth; no one tribal or ethnic group embodies all that is good in man; no
    one nation-state can lead us on an unerring path into the future. It doesn't just
    take a village; it takes a world...\r\n\r\nHmmm, the subject of this forum is
    presumably the design of the letter S, which I have always considered to be the
    sexiest letter of the alphabet, but I didn't realize that it could so thought-provoking
    as well."
  created: '2005-06-27 23:10:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Turkey\u2019s admission to the EU might do wonders for the Kurds.\r\n\r\nNo,
    its <strong>prospective</strong> admission is supposed to be doing that. But \"supposed
    to\" is as far as it's gone so far... And recognition of the Armenian Genocide
    is in the same boat as the [Turkish] Kurds.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-27 23:51:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Speaking of nationalism and the letter S...\r\nWhen I was studying English
    Literature at school, one of the set books was Joyce Carey's \"Mister Johnson\".
    One thing I remember about the book is the introduction, where the protagonaist
    is fascinated with drawing the letter S. And the general scenario: -- Johnson
    is an African bureaucrat in British Nigeria (1920s) who doesn't fit in with the
    locals or the Europeans. Symbolic letter S.\r\n\r\nAnd speaking of literary typographic
    stuff, what about the protagonist of Umberto Eco's new book, who is named Giambattista
    Bodoni?! (It's set in the present day.) (But set in which typeface?)"
  created: '2005-06-30 00:44:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Nationalism aside and I'm getting sick of it, I took the Linotype S text
    that involved making a small cap from the cap, as John refers. I think I passed,
    but I'm still not sure. I saw people subjected to it at bitstream, but I never
    looked. I took it with me to Font Bureau, but after the first subject cried for
    two days, I stopped. \r\n\r\nJohn is right to draw the letter without points on
    the spine. In fact, I usually draw the top, copy it, and I scale the bottom a
    little larger, change the serif/terminal if required, put 'em together and make
    the middle work. If you look closely at a lot of sweets \"s's\" you see how this
    works. You also have to turn it on its side, and upside down before you know it's
    right, so I rotate and edit this char. more than any other in all four rotations
    and don't settle 'till it's sweet from every angle. This sometimes takes 2 or
    3 passes, interrupted by less curvaceous characters, lunch, or a break to reacquaint
    myself with the lesser known and struggling nationalities of the world. \r\n\r\nThere
    is a great story of momma Knuth coming down to breakfast where Donald was proudly
    up all night working on the \"S\" for computer modern or one of the first metafonts.
    She looked, hmm, and asked, \"can't you make it more \"s\" like?\" I wonder, sometimes,
    if they're still married. "
  created: '2005-07-01 13:26:48'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Wow\u2013the discussion is back on track. In case anyone is interested, here's
    how I typically approach the S problem in CorelDraw:\r\n\r\nWith monoline faces,
    I begin by drawing two elongated ellipses, one beneath the other, the bottom larger
    than the top. Then I fudge both ellipses until there's some overlap. I then draw
    a straight line to define a path that is tangent to points on both ellipses. I
    convert the ellipses to curves, break the contours at the points of intersection,
    remove extraneous bits of the ellipses, and combine all objects into a single
    object. I then convert the tangent points to smooth connections and turn the line
    segments into curves. Then, selecting the newly-smooth connections and using the
    curve-smoothing slider (by far the most flexible of any that I have encountered
    in <em>any</em> drawing program), I increase the smoothness of the curve until
    the connections disappear. In almost all cases\u2013probably nine times of ten\u2013the
    connecting curve between the top and bottom elliptical elements assumes a pleasing
    shape all by itself. With the hardest part out of the way, I can then tweak the
    remaining segments of the ellipses to balance the overall design. Granted, the
    process of developing outlines for a face with stroke contrast is a little more
    involved, but the process works pretty much the same."
  created: '2005-07-01 15:27:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My secret to the \"S\": a really good eraser.\r\n\r\nSomething else/related:\r\nWhen
    I used to [have to] output TT fonts from Fontographer, one of things the cubic-to-quadratic
    conversion would explode on was missing inflection points, like those found on
    the spine of the \"S\". So I'd do the editing without such points but would splice
    them in for safety at the end. These days my \"S\"es (which don't number many
    admittedly) tend to have at least a small section of straightness in the spine,
    so the problem no longer comes up, but I'm wondering: was that explosion unavoidable,
    does it still happen (in FontLab), and might the issue fail to show up on the
    computer but end up biting you in the RIP?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-01 18:32:00'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Hrant, that's an excellent point. My minimalist approach to S spines may
    be pleasing to the eye, but it probably makes for bad Postscript.\r\n\r\nI neglected
    to mention that I normally work via the centerline method, defining my characters
    by stroke weight. In the process of converting the stroke to an outline, CorelDraw
    usually adds intermediate points along the spine, most of which I retain for the
    glyphs that I export. In almost all cases, if there is not a totally flat curve
    along the way, there is at least one segment along the curve with very little
    deflection."
  created: '2005-07-01 19:05:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Tina, it would be a good idea to check out your S in the most problematic
    combinations.\r\nPreceeded by an E, or Followed by a T.\r\nAlso compare with 8,
    s, $, &."
  created: '2005-07-01 20:43:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: After I have the S shape I want, I always add inflection points on the bendy
    bit. It gives me the option to make small adjustments to the curvature without
    having to touch my happy extreme points again, as described above. More importantly,
    if heading to a TTF with manual hinting, I want points here so that I can interpolate
    them off the top and bottom, which is one of the easiest ways to control the middle
    bend. [<a href="http://www.tiro.com/John/S5.gif">S5.gif</a>]
  created: '2005-07-02 22:29:41'
date: '2005-06-12 09:53:58'
title: S design

---
