---
author:
  name: Miss Tiffany
  picture: 110563
body: "Alright! Now the site is live and registration* available, let's starting a
  running list of who's going, when they are arriving/leaving, and what you hope to
  do/eat/see in the big apple!\r\n\r\nWho: Me, myself and I, aka Miss Tiffany, Tiff,
  Tif, and to close friends and family, T.\r\n\r\nWhen: I'm hitting the east coast
  the Friday before it all starts to hang out with an old friend and will arrive at
  the official conference hotel, <a href=\"http://www.theroosevelthotel.com/\">The
  Roosevelt Hotel</a> late Sunday night or Monday morning. I'll be leaving, thoroughly
  satiated and happy, the following Monday.\r\n\r\nWhat: I really hope to visit: <a
  href=\"http://www.chisholm-poster.com/\">The Chisholm Poster Gallery</a> -- <a href=\"http://www.metmuseum.org/\">The
  Metropolitan Museum of Art</a> to see two of my favorite paintings by Pierre-Auguste
  Cot - The Storm and Springtime. But I can't say no to the Lehman collection or anything
  from the PreRaphaelite era or the Dutch, hmm, or Kandinsky, or Caravaggio. Yikes.
  -- <a href=\"http://www.moma.org/\">MoMA</a> to see the new changes in architecture.
  -- But most of all, to see my friends at the conference whom are all just my type.
  \r\n\r\n* The only browser experience problems at this time is Internet Explorer
  and only on a PC. However, these people can see some of the content on the site
  and can still register and see most of the content if they skip directly to http://www.sotalink.com/register.html
  -- We are aware of the problem and are working toward a solution."
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I (Chris Lozos; Chris) hope to arrive Tuesday night at the Roosevelt and
    leave Sunday night. I would like to see MoMA as well but plan to spend most of
    my time at the conference.  I hope to put faces to names for once. Since this
    will be my first TypeCon, I don't quite know what to expect but I have signed
    up for all the conference events and the 2 FontLab sessions on Wednesday.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: TBiddy
      picture: 110666
    body: "\"...I have signed up for all the conference events and the 2 FontLab sessions
      on Wednesday.\"\r\n\r\nSigned up? Can someone tell me why after signing up for
      the Typecon mailing list TWICE was I not notified about when registration opened?\r\n\r\nOn
      another note: what I'll be doing is hopefully meeting you all and learning how
      to actively pursue the profession.\r\n\r\nSince I already live in New York,
      the only thing extra I'll be doing is taking the subway further uptown. :)\r\n"
    created: '2005-06-13 02:06:30'
  created: '2005-06-11 18:54:29'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I will be attending my first-ever TypeCon. I will be in the Roosevelt hotel,
    arriving Tuesday, departing Sunday. I look forward to meeting you all there! \r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-11 19:24:50'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'When: Jamie and I arrive Thursday, July 14 after a red-eye. So we really
    won''t be conscious until Friday. We hang out with my friends <a href="http://flickr.com/photos/norman/">Norm</a>
    and Priya for a couple days and help set up the FiFFteen Exhibit at the FIT. Saturday,
    we settle in at the Roosevelt for a week of fontfreaking. We leave Sunday, July
    24.'
  created: '2005-06-11 19:26:07'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: I'll also get into town Thursday, July 14, after the joy that is red-eye travel.
    Heading to the gala opening of the TDC winners exhibition at the Cooper Union
    that night (the early kick-off to Type Week in New York). Staying at the Roosevelt
    with lots of other typeheads. Departing early Tuesday, July 26. I won't be doing
    much sightseeing or hitting the museums this time around, as TypeCon and FiFFteen
    activities will keep me way busy, but I'll have a great time seeing my type friends.
  created: '2005-06-11 22:29:12'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "I, JLT, will arrive on Thursday AM once the meeting is already moving and
    will leave on Sunday evening. Wife & I are staying at the Roosevelt, and look
    forward to much sushi, and the usual Saturday or Sunday brunch at Florent. Anyone
    interested in a trip to my favorite breakfast place (and a sort of pilgrimage
    in honor of Tibor Kalman) is invited along.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt : http://www.hewnandhammered.com
    : rock & roll mf"
  created: '2005-06-12 01:07:31'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "Howdy folks!\r\n\r\nMe (Stefan Hattenbach) will arrive on July 19th and enjoy
    every second of TypeCon. This chance to meet friends and colleagues within the
    business is totally unbeatable. Hope to get some spare time as well, to see good
    old NYC again, for the first in 15 years!!! I expect the city to be as cool as
    ever?! Heading back home to Stockholm July 24th (late evening), probably with
    a tear in my eye... Btw my friend Peter Bruhn is having the same flight dates
    as me.\r\n\r\nPS. Also staying at the Roosevet.\r\n\r\nSee you all soon, cheers\r\n/SH"
  created: '2005-06-12 12:15:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm arriving on Tuesday 19th, staying at the Roosevelt, and leaving late
    on Sunday 24th.\r\nAnyone care to share a double room?"
  created: '2005-06-12 13:51:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: References available
  created: '2005-06-12 13:52:13'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "I -- Yves <em>(which you pronounce like \"Eve\")</em> Peters -- am arriving
    on Tuesday 19th, staying at the Roosevelt, and leaving on Monday 25th as I don't
    want to miss the wrap party. I'll be sharing a room with my viking buddy Stefan
    Hattenbach.\r\n\r\nI really don't know if I'll be able to see any of New York
    as I plan to meet everyone in the flesh, but if anyone is going anywhere interesting
    and I have some spare time, I'll gladly join in if you are willing to suffer my
    <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/12978\" target=\"new\">savage and uncivilised
    ways</a>."
  created: '2005-06-12 20:56:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "See you all in NYC. I'll be staying with my son, who lives downtown. \r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: TBiddy
      picture: 110666
    body: "\"I\u2019ll be staying with my son, who lives downtown.\"\r\n\r\nWilliam,
      this always make me smile because New York doesn't have the share the same concept
      of downtown as a lot of cities do. Its something I learned after moving here
      a few years ago. :) \"Downtown\" in New York can be based entirely on geographic
      location.\r\n\r\nSo will you be in lower Manhattan then? What region of the
      city?\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2005-06-13 15:42:23'
  created: '2005-06-13 03:13:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Terry,\r\n\r\nI never got an announcement either.  I just kept checking the
    site everyday until it was up. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-13 03:16:44'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em>I never got an announcement either.</em>\r\n\r\nDitto here. :-/"
  children:
  - author:
      name: TBiddy
      picture: 110666
    body: "Well, I signed up as soon as I found out about it. All I really cared about
      was getting into the workshops that I wanted to be in.\r\n\r\nSince I live in
      New York, if anyone has ideas about things they want to do while they're here
      in the city I'd be happy to help if I can."
    created: '2005-06-13 15:34:53'
  created: '2005-06-13 15:20:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "My son just moved apartment from NoHo to Chinatown, which is a world in \r\nitself.
    I love it because it is full of families, with all ages present. \r\nThe food
    is great at amazingly cheap prices also. \r\n\r\nAlso, it seems like every other
    basement has a small print shop! The \r\nsigns are in general completely chaotic
    - no concept of design, though \r\nsometimes you come across a nice one.  "
  children:
  - author:
      name: TBiddy
      picture: 110666
    body: "William, that is definitely a neat part of town. There are actually a good
      amount of textile and supply places for designers there. A lot of designers
      and students go down there to get  supplies for comps, projects (plastic, resin
      and other materials).\r\n\r\nI like not having a concept of design, as a designer
      its refreshing to see things that are purely functional. A lot of times there
      is a lot of character and personality to something that wasn't overthought by
      a designer."
    created: '2005-06-14 17:07:46'
  created: '2005-06-13 17:20:04'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "OK, for those of you who haven't received TypeCon news, we found out there
    was a glitch in our listserve. Sorry for the inconvenience. We're resending the
    the \"registration is open\" announcement as soon as the problem is fixed (probably
    tomorrow).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-13 19:30:21'
- author:
    name: emel
    picture: 109898
  body: "I'll be attending my first ever typecon, though, sadly, I can only attend
    the first 2 days :( \r\nI have signed up for 2 FontLab sessions on Wednesday as
    well.\r\n\r\nFlying in Tuesday through Thursday for me @ the roosevelt\r\n \r\nHope
    to meet some of the people from the forum while I am out there"
  created: '2005-06-13 20:16:21'
- author:
    name: James Grieshaber
    picture: 110551
  body: "Who?: Me, I'll be there, staying at the Roosevelt (with Shinn).\r\n\r\nWhen?:
    Tuesday to Monday morning.\r\n\r\nWhat?: Oh, you know Con stuff. Of course we
    have to check out some of the world-class cuisine in the City. And the <a href=http://www.morganlibrary.org/>
    Pierpont Morgan Library </a> always has interesting book arts exhibits.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: emel
      picture: 109898
    body: After you got my hopes up I sadly just read the Pierpont is closed to the
      public for its major expansion and renovation project, the Morgan will reopen
      in spring 2006.
    children:
    - author:
        name: TBiddy
        picture: 110666
      body: emel, I spent my first semester of undergrad at CCAD. I wonder if we had
        some of the same professors.
      children:
      - author:
          name: emel
          picture: 109898
        body: "\"emel, I spent my first semester of undergrad at CCAD. I wonder if
          we had some of the same professors.\"-tbiddy\r\n\r\nI'm sure you had a couple
          of them if it was foundation year.\r\nWhich year did you attend?"
        children:
        - author:
            name: TBiddy
            picture: 110666
          body: "\"Which year did you attend?\"\r\n\r\n1997, I only spent one year
            there and I transferred to Howard University in DC after that. I went
            from wanting to be an animator, to being a filmmaker, to being a designer,
            and back to being an artist/illustrator, and now a typographer. \r\n\r\n\"Like
            tbiddy, I am already in NYC (Brooklyn, to be precise).\"\r\n\r\nRicardo,
            I also live in Brooklyn.\r\n\r\nAnyone taking the second FontLab workshop?"
          children:
          - author:
              name: emel
              picture: 109898
            body: "\"Anyone taking the second FontLab workshop?\"\r\n\r\nI am taking
              the both sessions of the workshop. I wasn't sure about taking the first
              session since I read Leslie Carbargas book and figured it was a good
              primer, but I'd rather learn more and have some redundancy than miss
              something."
            created: '2005-06-15 14:47:56'
          created: '2005-06-15 03:47:07'
        created: '2005-06-15 02:06:47'
      created: '2005-06-14 17:11:09'
    created: '2005-06-13 21:33:07'
  created: '2005-06-13 20:42:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I'll be there, arriving the Saturday before it all starts. This year I'm
    bringing my family along, all three of us staying at the Roosevelt. This will
    my daughter's first time to Manhattan. Her mother and I have been there many times
    either together or separately. So this will be sort of a family vacation this
    year, with me abandoning them for TypeCon more as the week goes on. Hopefully,
    they will get a chance to see a little of it, too.\r\n\r\nThis will be my third,
    but I still get excited when I click those confirmation buttons on the airline
    and hotel reservation pages."
  created: '2005-06-14 02:17:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'll be getting there the weekend before, I think (haven't made the reservation
    yet). I have a talk for the NYC InDesign Users Group the evening of Monday the
    18th. Veronica and Miranda will most likely be coming with me, to prevent me from
    getting excessive amounts of sleep.\r\n\r\nI'm looking forward to seeing everybody!
    One cool thing about TypeCon for me is always that it's my first type conference
    of the season, so I get to renew old acquaintances.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-06-14 04:45:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Arriving on 19th, leaving Sunday (or maybe Monday).  Staying at the Roos.
    May bring the family with me, to prevent me from drinking excessive amounts of
    alcohol. If so it will be Lily's fifth type conference (ATypI Copenhagen, TypeCon
    Toronto, ICTVC 1, ATypI Vancouver) not bad for someone who won't be four years
    old 'til August.   \r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2005-06-14 05:00:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...We\u2019re resending the the \u201Cregistration is open\u201D announcement
    as soon as the problem is fixed\"\r\n\r\nTamye,\r\nMy email announcement arrived
    yesterday so it seems you have \"fixed\" it :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-14 13:14:06'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Like <strong>tbiddy</strong>, I am already in NYC (Brooklyn, to be precise).
    See you all in July!
  created: '2005-06-14 18:59:01'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: I will be flying in the 15th and leaving the 25th. Staying at the Roosevelt.
    After a few days of slaving away for Tamye (in a very positive way), I will be
    enjoying TypeCon and will be up for almost anything. Looking forward to it.
  created: '2005-06-15 01:20:53'
- author:
    name: cheshiredave
    picture: 110433
  body: I'm extremely sorry I will not be at TypeCon this year (friends are getting
    married that weekend). Have a wonderful time, everyone!
  created: '2005-06-15 04:51:54'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "The Punchcut contingent will be there representing Typophile - myself, Jared
    Benson, Christian Robertson and Zara Evens. Looking forward to screening the second
    Typophile Film Fest. (Oh, and Zara, is it true that Pepito won't be able to make
    it?)\r\n\r\n(Chesh, sorry you can't make it. We'll be sure and represent Emeryville
    for you.)"
  created: '2005-06-15 05:11:11'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I've read Cabarga's book too. I've also had two go rounds with a font family
    when I was working on my Thesis project. After the second go around and watching
    James Montalbano use FontLab, I picked up on a lot of tricks. \r\n\r\nI really
    need to learn about Unicode, hinting, and polishing off for a professional look
    and all of that jazz. Plus, some of us recent grads don't have an extra $100 to
    throw around. :("
  created: '2005-06-15 16:26:56'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Correction: <cite>Pepito</cite> is actually <cite>Puppet-O</cite> (however,
    pronounced like Pepito), and he/it will not be in attendance.\r\n\r\nI am looking
    forward to seeing everyone there, details of my travels to come."
  created: '2005-06-15 20:19:29'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: If there's no puppets I really don't see why I'm going all the way out there.
  created: '2005-06-15 21:23:15'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "> <em>Chesh, sorry you can\u2019t make it. We\u2019ll be sure and represent
    Emeryville for you.</em>\r\n\r\nHow about if I bring my commemorative Cheshire
    Dave hand puppet as well?\r\n\r\nIt's no <em>Puppet-O</em>, but still...\r\n\r\nThis
    TypeCon will be the first with two (count 'em, two) representatives from Veer.
    Jon Parker will be accompanying me on the trip from the prairies. It looks like
    we'll be landing on Tuesday evening and winging it back to cowtown late Sunday.
    We'll be residing for the duration at the (apparently) lovely Roosevelt as well.\r\n\r\nI
    imagine we should bring along a bit more Veer schwag than last year... any requests?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: emel
      picture: 109898
    body: "\"I imagine we should bring along a bit more Veer schwag than last year\u2026
      any requests?\" -Grant Hutchinson \r\n\r\nI suggest Oral Fixation Mints, typographers
      have the worst breath...\r\n;)\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/products/merchdetail.aspx?image=VPR0005250"
    created: '2005-06-17 17:08:21'
  created: '2005-06-16 05:08:44'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "<cite>I imagine we should bring along a bit more Veer schwag than last year\u2026
    any requests?</cite>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/merchdetail.aspx?image=VPR0001140\">Typography
    hoodies!!</a> (for girls and boys)"
  created: '2005-06-16 18:12:13'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "I, Andrea Emery, just registered for the conference and I am very excited
    to be going! The list of speakers looks great and all the activities look fun
    - it's always such a treat to travel from Ottawa to the big city. I look forward
    to making some new type friends - See you all there!\r\n\r\n(And YES, please bring
    hoodies!)"
  created: '2005-06-16 18:53:48'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Typography hoodies? Yay! :-)
  created: '2005-06-16 21:05:05'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'Creatives understand : )'
  created: '2005-06-16 22:39:12'
- author:
    name: emel
    picture: 109898
  body: "Those hoodies rock.\r\nIf you read the type in columns they spell out \"TYGR
    POAPHY\" lol. \r\n(tiger poopy?)"
  created: '2005-06-17 16:37:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Veer schwag \u2026 any requests?\r\n\r\nDude. Anything with Shinn fonts
    on it."
  created: '2005-06-17 17:51:47'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Ok, I'll see what I can do. No absolute promises, but I have been assured
    by our marketing wonks that I'll be able to spread around a fair bit of wearable
    Veer love at TypeCon. It's going to boil down to how much Jon and I can carry
    around with us, I suppose.\r\n\r\n> <em>Dude. Anything with Shinn fonts on it.</em>\r\n\r\nNick...
    we're working on that very thing."
  created: '2005-06-18 22:13:26'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: 'Another thing to do while at Typecon: do not miss the <a href="http://typographi.com/000839.php">world''s
    largest metal type</a>, on display in midtown Manhattan.'
  created: '2005-06-20 02:05:51'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: If Victorian era metal & wood type interests you, then be sure to visit <a
    href="http://www.southstseaport.org/places/bowne.shtm">Bowne & Co., Stationers</a>
  created: '2005-06-20 05:54:43'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "<em>Who:</em>   <a href=\"http://currentconfig.com\">Chris Rugen</a>\r\n\r\n<em>When:</em>
    \ Arriving Wed 20th; Leaving Sunday 24th. Staying at the Roosevelt.\r\n\r\n<em>What:</em>
    \ It's my first TypeCon, and I'm so psyched about the events and workshop (Reproducing
    Brush Lettering 4 LYFE), that I haven't thought it out much, even though I work
    in NYC two days a week. Bowne & Co. sounds pretty good though...\r\n\r\nI've got
    a question for the TypeCon vets: bringing a laptop \u2013 a hassle or a necessity?"
  created: '2005-06-20 12:48:39'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Is there WLAN access at Parsons?\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-20 13:07:30'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Laptop might be useful in the hotel room, but you won't want it at the conference.
    A pain to drag it around along with all the great <em>schwag</em> you pick up.
    And why have your face in a screen when you can be talking to cool people like
    me and Dan?
  children:
  - author:
      name: Chris Rugen
      picture: 110153
    body: "\"<em>...why have your face in a screen when you can be talking to cool
      people like me and Dan?</em>\"\r\n\r\nGood point. And that's actually one of
      the things I'm looking forward to the most: talking with cool (type) people
      <em>in person</em>."
    created: '2005-06-20 21:21:59'
  created: '2005-06-20 18:32:06'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Wow. I am honored to be on such a shortlist of cool people ;-)\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-20 18:58:46'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "What, no iChatting to each other in the same room?\r\n\r\nYay for humans!"
  created: '2005-06-21 00:18:22'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "Hey Stewf, I don't have time to visit any gym, so carry my laptop around
    is my only chance of doing some \"bodybuilding\". I can carry and talk at the
    same time, promise ;-)\r\n\r\nSee you there, buddie"
  created: '2005-06-21 01:05:31'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: I will actually be interacting with you via laptop only, while hiding out
    in the back room at McHale's.
  created: '2005-06-21 05:54:14'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'I was wondering if any type-girls want to share a room at the Roosevelt,
    during the conference. I''ll be there from Tuesday evening, the 19th, straight
    through to Sunday the 24th. I don''t snore and am generally nice and easygoing. '
  created: '2005-06-21 20:25:12'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Andrea, hope you found a roomie! If anyone is desperately in need of a share
    at the Roosevelt, post here, and we'll try to hook you up.
  created: '2005-06-23 18:59:57'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Just talked w/ the reservations desk at the Roosevelt. There are indeed rooms
    available. Be sure you get the conference rate cuz it's about $60 better than
    their normal rate. \r\n\r\nWe're getting giddy over here."
  created: '2005-06-24 01:35:32'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Yes, the Roosevelt added more rooms to our block - they're the best! The
    hotel is getting full of type geeks. I don't know how long the rooms will last,
    so anyone waiting until the last minute to book may be sad. Same with TypeCon...
    don't wait until we're sold out!\r\n\r\nWe've extended early bird for a few more
    days... but prices go up next Tuesday. Save some money for shopping, fine dining,
    or buying type goodies while you can."
  created: '2005-06-24 09:05:24'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Hey Tamye - i did fine a roomie - and it's because I posted here. (Thanks
    to Tiffany's Suggestion, I might add). How awesome is that?! With every TypeCon
    reminder or email message, I am *really* getting excited about the event and the
    speakers ... and, of course, seeing all the Veer schwag/type goodies up close!
  created: '2005-06-24 14:40:22'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Are there any men looking for roommates? Not for me, but a male friend who
    might fly over from Belfast.
  created: '2005-06-27 19:04:55'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Ou la la, Tiff, an Irish \"friend\"?\r\n\r\nI'll keep it in mind... people
    are looking..."
  created: '2005-06-27 21:49:47'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "By the way - the extended early bird discount ends today. AND - the speaker
    schedule is now live, so you can see when your favorite is onstage. Detailed program
    info coming shortly.\r\n\r\nRegister before midnight tonight, Pacific time, to
    save some bucks!\r\n\r\nwww.typecon.com/register/"
  created: '2005-06-27 21:57:07'
- author:
    name: Jason Alejandro
    picture: 110644
  body: Kind of a weird question...I noticed that the FontLab workshops are full.
    If I have the software on my laptop though, is there any way I still might be
    able to get into it even though there is only room for 24 in the Mac lab?
  created: '2005-06-29 16:37:11'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "Hmmm. Seems as though the Roosevelt is booked solid. Anyone know of a decent,
    cheap hotel (ha!) near either the Roosevelt or Parsons?\r\n\r\n[Sorry. False alarm.
    I'm too stupid to use the online booking system.]"
  created: '2005-06-29 18:01:31'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: One crazy (but lovable) male Brazilian speaker seeks roomie at the Roosevelt
    for TypeCon. Arrives Wed., July 20, departs Mon., July 25. Please respond here,
    or email tamye @ typesociety.org if you want a match. Guaranteed a good time!
  created: '2005-06-30 10:29:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tamye,\r\nI registered for TypeCon a while ago but now want to add Nick Shinn
    and Adam Twardoch's opentype session on Thursday morning.  Is there a way I can
    do this without redoing the whole sign-up process?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-06 02:21:26'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Hi, Chris. We can take care of the workshop addition over the phone or by
    fax. I'll email you the digits.\r\n\r\nAnyone else that needs to add a workshop,
    email me at info (at) typesociety.org, and I'll send instructions.\r\n\r\nTamye"
  created: '2005-07-06 02:50:06'
- author:
    name: Sean Michael
    picture: 110682
  body: "I'll be staying on the geek floor at the Roosevelt. Will be rooming with
    my two girlfriends and am arriving in NYC on Tuesday night before the event. Taking
    a couple of workshops too. This will be my 2nd TypeCon - the first being Minneapolis
    2003. See you there. I'll be the one with a drink on my mind or in my hand. :)\r\nSean"
  created: '2005-07-10 20:50:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sean,\r\nTwo girlfriends and drinks?  Will you be seeing any of the conference?
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-11 02:19:52'
- author:
    name: Ghost of Steuf
    picture: 110568
  body: 'I think the big question is: will the stars of <a href="http://www.weddingcrashersmovie.com/crashthistrailer/index.htm?id=24567">Wedding
    Crashers</a> be making a special TypeCon appearance?'
  created: '2005-07-11 03:04:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Steuf,\r\nThat is a scream!!!\r\nThanks for taking the time.  It is priceless
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-11 13:11:49'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Type Fever has hit the Big Apple! A slew of Typophiles, TypeCon attendees,
    and more type geeks mingled with TDC members, competition winners, and folks from
    the NYC type community at the TDC exhibition opening at Cooper Union.\r\n\r\nThe
    show looks great, and there were lots of cool people in attendance, including
    many TypeCon speakers.\r\n\r\nThe official mayoral proclamation for Type Week
    is pretty sexy, too - we'll post images soon.\r\n\r\nTomorrow, more TypeCon fun
    as Miss Tiffany hits town, and we journey to TDC offices and Parsons to continue
    plotting and planning. Can't wait to see you all next week!"
  created: '2005-07-15 06:59:14'
- author:
    name: Jesse Ragan
    picture: 110402
  body: "<em>who:</em> Jesse Ragan, typeface designer\r\n\r\n<em>when:</em> I live
    in Brooklyn, so I'm around as long as you are.\r\n\r\n<em>what!?</em> I keep a
    low profile online, but I'm far more engaging in person. I look forward to meeting
    more of you fine folks at the conference next week!"
  created: '2005-07-15 16:19:17'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Jesse, I have a <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/200000/compatil-clan.html\">Compatil</a>
    brochure for you.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-15 21:41:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Those rule.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 22:45:08'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: A consensus has been taken late night at the Roosevelt hotel and we have decided
    there should be more exciting, expectant chatter about TypeCon 2005. We don't
    really know what, but its late and we are preparing for the festivites.
  created: '2005-07-17 06:12:24'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Yes! I agree.\r\n\r\nAre Typophiles gathering anywhere to hang out/meet up
    on Wednesday night? Perhaps a post-FiFFteen soir\xE9e? Or is everyone planning
    to head back to the Roosevelt and hang out in the hotel bar?\r\n\r\nI'll be the
    one holding my 'I like type' tshirt molded into the shape of a red carnation...or
    something."
  created: '2005-07-17 16:10:19'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'a red carnation? Really? can you do that? : )'
  created: '2005-07-17 16:12:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Um. Yes...\r\n\r\n::furiously scrunches tshirt::"
  created: '2005-07-17 16:18:17'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "A post-exhibition bash on Wednesday is definitely in order (in fact, I'm
    looking for something to do on Tuesday night as well!!!). I do not know New York
    well enough to suggest anything, but I am up for everything ;-)\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-17 16:20:16'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: I certainly would like to post gather afterwards. Since I only have everyone's
    icon to go by, I'll be looking for tshirt scrunchers and the like (you're hillarious
    crugen!)
  created: '2005-07-17 16:20:58'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Chris, I have no red t-shirt to scrunch into a carnation, but my hair is
    bigger and redder than that of anyone else who is likely to attend the conference\u2026
    you can't miss me.\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-17 16:21:26'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'I''m in town Tuesday night too - anyone else coming in early? Any city event
    suggestions? '
  created: '2005-07-17 16:24:43'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "I am arriving Tuesday night as well, and think a drink at the hotel bar might
    be nice. I'll be there, wearing the day-glo green baseball cap, yellow/blue striped
    sweater with a picture of a kitten on the front, hot pink feathery boa, military
    issue camo pants, and no shoes, smoking a cigar. Oh yes, with a yellow flower
    in my hair. So, who wants to hang out with me?\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2005-07-17 16:42:28'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'Gee Zara... um... I''ll definitely look out for you! : )'
  created: '2005-07-17 16:48:23'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "OK, now that I have frightened everyone \u2013 here is the truth. I will
    be wearing shoes, and they will either be black, orange, red or pink. Definitely
    not purple."
  created: '2005-07-17 17:03:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Now you're all making me want to stay in town on Tuesday (I work in Manhattan
    on Tues. and Thurs.). I had planned to show up Wednesday.\r\n\r\nHmmm."
  created: '2005-07-17 17:06:14'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Yeah Chris - we can all meet up in the hotel bar - why don't you stay in town?
    I'm thinking everyone should be wearing something red (be it hair or shoes or
    carnations!)
  created: '2005-07-17 17:08:30'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Hotel Bar! Yeah! What time?\r\n\r\nStay, Chris, stay\u2026\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-17 17:31:46'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Hmmm... what time do you arrive into NY, Dan? Zara?\r\nHow about 7 pm? What
    do you think?"
  created: '2005-07-17 17:36:16'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: I will probably show up at the hotel around 10 or so.
  created: '2005-07-17 17:41:57'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I suspect to be in the Hotel by 6pm.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-17 17:54:36'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Well Dan, I can look for you in the hotel bar around 7 and we can toast to
    Zara's arrival at 10 ish.
  created: '2005-07-17 18:05:20'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "OK!\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-17 18:14:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "BE WARNED: The Roosevelt Hotel, while \xFCber-posh, doesn't allow checking
    in until 3:00pm. So, you arrive earlier than that prepare to let them hang on
    to your luggage. If you get into town and want to start helping out immediately,
    call me on my mobile. (If you want my mobile find stephen and ask him.)\r\n\r\nThe
    events this year are going to keep you busy. Lots and lots of fun has been prepared
    for you and you won't be lacking for activities. (I still need to find time to
    go shoe shopping, but i'm not prepared to hold my breath.)\r\n\r\nYipee! can't
    wait for more and more to arrive!"
  created: '2005-07-17 21:13:06'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I arrived late last night (Saturday, that is). I have my partner and out
    daughter along. We made the mistake of having breakfast in the hotel restaurant
    this morning. The food was fine, but the price was outrageous. When we left the
    hotel, we discovered that there is a ten-block long street market just outside
    on Madison Avenue with lots of reasonably priced food options. D'oh!\r\n\r\nWe
    wandered around Manhattan this morning and went on a walking tour of Central park
    earlier this afternoon. That was pretty cool, but we're pretty beat already.\r\n\r\nAnyone
    else here yet? I haven't seen anybody, but I also haven't been hanging around
    the hotel."
  created: '2005-07-17 21:13:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: almost forgot. when you arrive, for those of you who arrive on monday, please
    find me to sign a certain someone's birthday giftie. :^)
  created: '2005-07-17 21:15:03'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: The lobby bar at the Roosevelt is swell - a super cool hangout place with
    tasty snacks, great drinks, and a relaxing atmosphere. Great for people-watching!
    We (Miss Tiffany, Mr. Coles, Jonny Coltz, Brian B and his girl Sheri, Ghost of
    Steuf, FontShop crew, myself and a few others) will be glad to meet up in the
    bar Tuesday night after a rough day of moving TypeCon goodie bags, TypeGallery,
    and other stuff from the TDC to Parsons. We'll be at the bar 7:30-8ish, ready
    to toast the arrival of our Typophile friends.
  created: '2005-07-17 21:35:10'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Attention those whom are STILL interested in submitting to the TypeGallery.
    The absolute drop-deadline for entries is Wednesday, July 20th, at 10am EST. You
    may bring them to Parsons yourself as long as we have digital versions by tomorrow,
    Monday, at 5:00 pm EST. We appreciate all entries and really do not want to turn
    anyone away, but we must set a deadline.
  created: '2005-07-17 21:35:25'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "TypeCon goodie bags?! \r\nCan't wait!!! (I feel giddy!)"
  created: '2005-07-17 22:46:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I will be arriving at the Hotel at about 9pm. I don't do carnations (reminds
    me of the Prom) but will wear a type related T-shirt :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-18 03:44:45'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nThat's a cute little icon you've crafted for yourself!"
  created: '2005-07-18 06:39:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Looks like I'll be crashing in NYC Tuesday night, so I'll be at the Roosevelt
    around 7\u20137:30. I'll be wearing something type-related and red, ready to relax
    and toast hard work and a good time."
  created: '2005-07-18 12:56:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lauri,\r\n\r\nThanks! it is made completely from glyphs of my typeface \"Leporello\"
    so it is my face made from my face.  I am having T-shirts made but they may not
    be ready in time for TypeCon.  :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-18 14:01:02'
- author:
    name: emel
    picture: 109898
  body: "I'll be in on Tuesday night too - I hope to see some people in the bar that
    night as well.\r\n\r\nOn a side note, not being a new yorker, what is the easiest
    way to get to parsons for the workshops? Walk? Bus? Subway?"
  created: '2005-07-18 14:55:17'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "You can walk - it's under 2 miles and it's a fairly scenic route. You can
    also take the subway - it's a direct line. If you think you will be taking more
    subway than walking, you can invest in a 7 day pass, as well.\r\n\r\nSo New York
    typophiles - how hot and sticky is it in the city right now?"
  created: '2005-07-18 16:09:52'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: It's been between 85 and 95 most days. VERY humid. (I melt in humidity.)
  created: '2005-07-18 18:08:04'
- author:
    name: armin
    picture: 110197
  body: "> <em>how hot and sticky is it in the city right now?</em>\r\n\r\nI just
    stepped out to grab some lunch and I would deem the humidity right now somewhere
    between <em>miserable</em> and <em>unbearable</em>. And Wednesday is supposed
    to be even \"better\". If you walk on the shaded side of the streets it ain't
    that bad."
  created: '2005-07-18 18:24:39'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'Yucky - thanks guys - I imagine a few change of clothes will be necessary. '
  created: '2005-07-18 18:35:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thai silk shirts, people. Bangkok makes NY feel like the Gobi.\r\n\r\nBut
    I'm sure you'll still all have a blast! I'm envious...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-18 19:46:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Washington, DC area makes New York feel like Arizona :-) \r\nI am looking
    forward to NYC and the dryer climate.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-18 22:19:11'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: Ok, now that Miss Tiffany has finished hijacking my computer I can remind
    everyone that tomorrow (that is Tuesday) we will be meeting around 8pm in the
    Bar Lobby at the Roosevelt. If you are in town already you have no excuse not
    to be there. All the cool kids are gonna be there. Don't you want to be cool?
  created: '2005-07-19 09:40:50'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: It is sticky! But everyone is enjoying the city in all its glory, and each
    other's company, regardless of the melt factor. See  you at the bar...
  created: '2005-07-19 09:51:30'
- author:
    name: emel
    picture: 109898
  body: "yes I want to be cool. I will be at the bar. \r\n\r\nIn fact, I am off to
    the airport now..."
  created: '2005-07-19 13:21:27'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Ugh. Came into the city for work today. The subway was suffocating.\r\n\r\nExtra
    reason to come to the bar tonight and be cool."
  created: '2005-07-19 14:01:24'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: "wish I was there dude's.\r\nmiles\r\n\r\nnewlyn.com"
  created: '2005-07-19 22:18:08'
date: '2005-06-11 18:13:41'
title: 'TypeCon2005: Who? When? What?'

---
