---
author:
  name: parker
  picture: 109663
body: "what is the idea behind  modification/customization of existing fonts? \r\n\r\n[let's
  say I'm the client  and I really love Minion -- so what the type designer is going
  to do?  \"copy\" the font? change the strokes? create a new Minion?.......] \r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Without getting too deep in history, many corporations and countless high-end
    publishers of books and periodicals had one or several type families customized
    for their particular use.\r\n\r\nIt's the difference between \"off-the-rack\"
    fashions and tailor-fit clothing. Generally, \"out-of-the-box\" solutions need
    a certain amount of tweaking in order to be really good. By customizing widths,
    kerning pairs, character shapes, you cut down on the need to tweak and produce
    quality typesetting with uniformity and consistency.\r\n\r\nThe purpose is not
    to create a new variation of the typeface. It's to improve the output.\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-06-15 14:41:45'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Parker\r\n\r\nI often have to modify a font a bit if I am going to use it
    for letterpress or if for normal print, to provide for different weighting.\r\n\r\nMinion
    was available as a MM font once upon a time and multiple masters did anticipate
    user interaction in regard to manipulating a font. \r\n\r\nI realize that a lot
    of type foundryes these days indicate in their terms of contract that you are
    not to modify a font but hey, I paid for Fontographer and FontLab and the right
    to use the PostScript or TrueType or OpenType formats just like they did.\r\n\r\nYou
    don't have to go too far back in type technologies to realize that all type design
    is tied to format or delivery device. And the owner of that has the real say about
    it all. Prior to 1986 you literally had to \"submit\" a design to ITC if you wanted
    your typeface out there (no other options).\r\n\r\nReselling or redistibution
    of a font is a no no clearly but modification, nonsense. Hell I can modify a font
    by adjusting the software in my printer.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-06-17 03:57:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "devil's advocate\r\n\r\nDon't you all think modification for design ownability
    is a little bit of a cop-out? I mean they  might as well get new designs. For
    instance, I respect MSLO (Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia) for their continued
    use of Hoefler & Frere-Jones. On the other hand, I'm not so sure I understand
    why UPS did what they did.\r\n\r\n/devil's advocate"
  created: '2005-06-17 21:04:49'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\nthat is my point, Tiffany.\r\n\r\n\"The purpose is not to create a new
    variation of the typeface. It\u2019s to improve the output.\"\r\n\r\nwhat do you
    mean? why not to contact the designer \"to improve the output\"? to design a new
    font? \r\nwhere is the creative work? the original work? \r\n\r\n \"...why UPS
    did what they did.\" -- what they did?\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-17 21:30:06'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: <a href="http://www.typophile.com/node/13072">what UPS did</a>
  created: '2005-06-17 21:33:34'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Parker\r\n\r\n\"why not to contact the designer 'to improve the output'\"\r\n\r\nGood
    idea. What is in your wallet?\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-06-17 22:39:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Getting the original designer to do the modification is one good option,
    yes.\r\nBut that's all it is; there can be no de facto \"obligation\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-17 23:02:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "And if the original designer resides 6 feet under?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-17 23:06:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Or more problematic still, what if he's <strong>mental</strong>?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-17 23:09:44'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Here is where old battle lines have been drawn.\r\n\r\nOn one side, the designer
    of typefaces.\r\nOn the other side, the \"expert\" user of typefaces, sometimes
    referred to as typographer and/or type director.\r\n\r\nI've sat (or sometimes
    stood in pubs) between typographer and designer as they argued the point. For
    my part I am closer to being a typographer and have never drawn a single character
    that was ever released.\r\n\r\nThe \"expert\" user is never content to leave alone
    what irritates them visually. And the type designer simply can't please everyone.\r\n\r\nIt's
    just one of those relationships that you may not like, but I feel it keeps the
    art alive.\r\n\r\nOther than that, it simply isn't practical or downright impossible
    to go back to the original designer for modifications. Once a typeface has moved
    through one, two or several re-cuts over years or even centuries, the \"original\"
    designer's intent may have been lost completely. That's why I used to examine
    earlier specimens of third-iteration typefaces, not to nit-pick but to try and
    understand the original intent of the designer.\r\n\r\nFor some people it's a
    sin to leave well enough alone. \r\nHmmm... I think this sauce needs a little
    more basil. How could that chef miss something so obvious as that?\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I pick nits too!"
  created: '2005-06-17 23:21:16'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\n\"And if the original designer resides 6 feet under?\" \r\n\r\ndid you
    meausre? :)\r\n\r\n\r\nI'm not talking about revivals or old old fonts such as
    Centaur, Caslon, Bembo.... \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\"...What is in your wallet?\"\r\n\r\nnot
    Capital One  :)"
  created: '2005-06-17 23:27:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"did you meausre? :)\"\r\n\r\nYes I did, the measure was actually 432 picas
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-18 17:03:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "...and it was a lead lined coffin too :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-18 17:04:17'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "Hrant is not quite right. Anyone customizing a digital outline absolutely
    has an obligation to abide by the license issued by the owner of that digital
    outline. EULAs differ from one foundry to the next, but most include some express
    policy regarding what may or may not be done to create \"derivative works\" from
    font data.\r\n\r\nOn a personal note, I agree with Tiffany that modification is
    indeed a cop-out. The client who wants Helvetica, but \"an ownable Helvetica\"
    that's \"unique to our brand\" should be dissuaded, since the result inevitably
    looks like Helvetica wearing a funny nose."
  created: '2005-06-19 14:35:17'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>\u2026and it was a lead lined coffin too :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nThat was
    indeed a grave accent!"
  created: '2005-06-19 15:07:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>>Or more problematic still, what if he\u2019s mental?</em>\r\n\r\nHrant,
    I have a problem with this. I recall you posting this opinion here before, that
    it is okay to ignore an author/creator's copyright if the author/creator is unreasonable.\r\n\r\nMy
    problem is that \"unreasonable\" is too relative. Just because you, or anyone
    else deems a person \"unreasonable,\" that doesn't automatically make them so.
    There are many computer users who think that all protection for fonts are unreasonable.
    Who is to sit judgement of the question of what is reasonable for all cases, and
    what is not?\r\n\r\nThere may be designers who find your protection clauses unreasonable.
    How would you feel if Patria got out, and innumeral derivations of its design,
    some under other names attributed to other designers, began to circulate? I doubt
    that you would find it reasonable when others made cash from your efforts.\r\n\r\nThat
    is the problem with terms like \"reasonable\" or \"mental\".\r\n\r\nEither we
    are going to respect coppyright and EULAs or we aren't. I'm not saying that there
    shouldn't be dialog within (and outside of) the community about what EULA terms
    should be. But to say that EULAs which are \"unreasonable\" may be ignored will
    lead to big problems.\r\n\r\nIf users find an EULA unreasonable, they should license
    type from someone else. Our field is not without competition, or change due to
    market circumstances. Those with unpopular EULAs will eventually get the message
    if their licensing numbers drop off drastically.\r\n\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-19 15:49:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"That was indeed a grave accent!\"\r\n\r\n Nice dig Steve:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-19 16:24:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Anyone customizing a digital outline absolutely has an obligation\r\n>
    to abide by the license issued by the owner of that digital outline.\r\n\r\nAnd
    everyone driving a car is supposed to not exceed the speed limit even by one mile-per-hour.
    But the cops will <strong>never</strong> give you a ticket for that, and a court
    will throw out such a case. So the reality remains that it is <strong>unreasonable</strong>
    to expect full de facto adherence to the letter of the law. It's all psychology,
    not a box.\r\n\r\nClearly, there is a difference between the letter -or even the
    spirit- of the law, and how <strong>humans</strong> are really expected to behave.
    This discrepancy is natural considering that the law is designed to protect those
    [already] in power. Please, no hogwash about the law being intended to serve the
    People.\r\n\r\nHuman beings are not modules in a computer program.\r\n\r\n> \u201Cunreasonable\u201D
    is too relative.\r\n\r\nHey, <strong>Life</strong> is \"too\" relative. We have
    to live with that, quite literally! Every moment of every day we make entirely
    subjective and personal decisions. This is just another one of them, no matter
    how much the lawdogs try to intimidate us.\r\n\r\n> How would you feel if Patria
    got out, and innumeral derivations of its design,\r\n> some under other names
    attributed to other designers, began to circulate?\r\n\r\nI have never advocated
    <strong>redistributing</strong> fonts, modified or otherwise. <strong>That</strong>
    is beyond reasonability; <strong>internal</strong> modification is not. The <strong>attempt</strong>
    at preventing internal modification is a scare tactic that can only backfire on
    the font house itself, because the main thing it does is place an unreasonable
    demand on the user, leading to a near-automatic violation of the clause, creating
    a precedent of de jure \"misbehavior\" in the user, in turn making him more comfortable
    carrying out further (less justifiable) violations. It's bad for everybody, no
    matter how attractive draconian modernism is (to some people).\r\n\r\n> Either
    we are going to respect coppyright and EULAs or we aren\u2019t.\r\n\r\nNope, I'm
    shades of gray, not black or white. You do what you think is right, I do what
    I think is right. I'm sorry if that's Bad For Business.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-19 18:05:38'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "I don't think anyone objects to what you're calling \"internal modification,\"
    but I don't think this is what's being discussed here. Certainly anyone who buys
    a font to use on a book cover or a CD is welcome to have at the font with hammer
    and tongs; I've certainly seen my fonts adapted in any number of ways, some of
    them OK, some of them brilliant, and some of them not so brilliant. That's the
    bell curve for you.\r\n\r\nThe issue is \"redistribution,\" as you put it. The
    clients who call us beginning with \"we love Minion, but...\" -- as described
    in the first post in this thread -- are the ones who want to populate a large
    design system with \"customized\" fonts. In my experience, these include everything
    from fonts with a few serifs snipped off, to fonts whose only change is the font
    name and the copyright legend. This is not OK, and it's not a question of relativism
    or personal morals: it is against the law.\r\n\r\nIn the seventeen years I've
    worked in this industry, it has been my consistent experience that organizations
    understand this without the need for legal intervention. Anyone interested in
    customizing their typography is serious about branding, and anyone serious about
    branding has legal counsel familiar with intellectual property law."
  created: '2005-06-20 14:21:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "According to Tiffany's chart (Type Foundry EULAs: who allows what), most
    foundries allow modifications.\r\n\r\nhttp://fontlab.wikidev.net/The_Case_for_a_User-Friendly_EULA\r\n\r\nThe
    concomitant stipulation is that any modified font can only be installed on a device
    which is licensed for the original. So the client commissioning the modification
    pays for licensing the original font, and the modification fee. This is reasonable,
    because the modification fee is paying for their exclusive custom version of the
    font.\r\n\r\nI've had this kind of work done on my fonts, and I've done it on
    fonts designed by others: for instance, for newspapers, headline or agate versions
    of \"standard\" fonts. My client could have contacted the original foundry, but
    was confident in my ability to do the work adequately, on time, and reasonably
    priced. No doubt the original foundry could have done it just as well, or better,
    but for my client they are an unknown quantity.\r\n\r\nHowever, I would never
    mess with the beziers of a font from Font Bureau, or any other foundry that prohibits
    it in their EULA. They are not being unreasonable, merely setting the terms of
    a contract which potential users can take or leave, and other font workers are
    legally bound to observe, no matter what they think of it. It's not just a question
    of obeying the law, but of mutual respect amongst designers.\r\n\r\nThere is a
    difference between civil disobedience such as speeding (citizen vs. state) and
    disrespecting the Bureau (citizen vs. citizen), which is a small design firm,
    not exactly what you'd call \"those in power\", Hrant."
  created: '2005-06-20 15:19:21'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "<cite>And everyone driving a car is supposed to not exceed the speed limit
    even by one mile-per-hour. But the cops will never give you a ticket for that,
    and a court will throw out such a case. So the reality remains that it is unreasonable
    to expect full de facto adherence to the letter of the law.</cite>\r\n\r\nHrant,\r\nI
    got pulled over for going less 2 mph over the limit. I only got a warning, but
    he seemed close to giving me a real ticket.\r\n\r\nLaws (especially regarding
    traffic) are made... to be broken. The speed limit is 40 because they know people
    will be driving 45. There is a certain buffer around many American laws with acceptable
    overages and underages.\r\n\r\nHowever, with contracts and EULA type things there
    are specific borders that you have to adhere to. They are generally very direct
    in stating your rights and limitations, and there isn't room for personal interoperation.\r\n\r\n<cite>Either
    we are going to respect coppyright and EULAs or we aren\u2019t. I\u2019m not saying
    that there shouldn\u2019t be dialog within (and outside of) the community about
    what EULA terms should be. But to say that EULAs which are \u201Cunreasonable\u201D
    may be ignored will lead to big problems.</cite>\r\n\r\nagreed\r\n\r\n\r\nr.k"
  created: '2005-06-20 15:31:39'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Dan,\r\n\r\nWhat about fonts with really rotten kerning tables, like the
    early Monotypes? Or those that refer to the standard Symbol-font for currency
    etcetera? \r\nModifying those should be considered a work of mercy..."
  created: '2005-06-20 17:13:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t think anyone objects to what you\u2019re calling \u201Cinternal
    modification,\u201D\r\n\r\nI guess you haven't been looking at EULAs lately. I
    was guilty of the same some years ago; but I'm not into EULAs. On the other hand,
    as Tiffany might tell you, there has been a return to more reasonability lately,
    probably partly because of the bursts of public outrage such as this. But there
    are still too many font houses that have that clause.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s not a
    question of relativism or personal morals: it is against the law.\r\n\r\nThat
    is not enough.\r\n\r\n> Anyone interested in customizing their typography is serious\r\n>
    about branding, and anyone serious about branding has legal\r\n> counsel familiar
    with intellectual property law.\r\n\r\nWhat is \"serious\"? If it's the ability
    to make money, I don't think your argument holds water, since companies richer
    than the ones you would consider \"serious\" do that all the time. And if it's
    not about money, then is it about typographic integrity? That's also problematic,
    because of the cultural deficiencies in the concept of intellectual property,
    especially in something as inherently derivative as type.\r\n\r\n> mutual respect
    amongst designers.\r\n\r\nThat doesn't work either, obviously. Not least because
    some font houses -who do prohibit any modification- deservedly don't get any respect
    from other designers.\r\n\r\nThe only thing that ever works is Reasonability.
    And that clause isn't. Which is why it does more harm than good.\r\n\r\n> not
    exactly what you\u2019d call \u201Cthose in power\u201D\r\n\r\nIn the context
    of the type world, <strong>of course</strong> there are some entities which have
    more power than others, for various reasons. If you had sat in Lawrence's EULA
    meeting at TC2004, you would have recognized them by the hissy fits they were
    throwing. You of all people should see that.\r\n\r\n> he seemed close to giving
    me a real ticket.\r\n\r\nThat's what he's trained to make you think. Where do
    you think all the money goes - donuts?\r\n\r\n> The speed limit is 40 because
    they know people will be driving 45.\r\n\r\nExactly! And EULAs have the no-mod
    clause to scare a small segment of users into following it; these are equivalent
    to the few people on the road who <strong>do</strong> always drive under the speed
    limit. And it's notable that these people are usually too old or they're illegal
    aliens.\r\n\r\n> with contracts and EULA type things there are specific borders
    that you have to adhere to.\r\n\r\nYes, and this absolutism is what makes it not
    work. Traffic laws are pragmatically constructed (even though they're made to
    control peons). But such a clause is a EULA is either broken or not; and when
    -not if- it <strong>is</strong> broken, you've broken your best chance at getting
    cooperation from the user. We need our users more than they need us; let's not
    push them to piracy.\r\n\r\n>  there isn\u2019t room for personal interoperation.\r\n\r\nBut
    humans personal-interpret <strong>everything, all of the time!</strong>\r\nThey
    are not cogs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 17:29:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">let\u2019s not push them to piracy\r\n\r\nYou are the one excusing piracy,
    with your \"I hit her because she's ugly\" logic. Manufactured provocation is
    a self-serving excuse for illegal or bad behavior.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nI can think
    of at least two perfectly reasonable arguments for a no-mod clause:\r\n1) To nip
    in the bud the process of companies doctoring a font, renaming it, and skipping
    multi-user license fees.\r\n2) Because a foundry doesn't want to see visually
    corrupted versions of their fonts in the media, degrading their reputation.\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that, I don't believe that foundries are obligated to explain why they make
    their EULAs the way they are, in order to justify users not breaking the agreement.\r\n\r\nIf
    users find a particular foundry's licence agreement onerous, they should get their
    fonts from a different foundry. \r\n\r\nThe solution is a purchaser better informed
    about the options in the marketplace, not a piracy exemption for ignorance, as
    you are suggesting.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 18:24:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You are the one excusing piracy\r\n\r\nNope. Redistribution is piracy,
    and I keep having to repeat that I don't condone it. Internal modification is
    reasonable human behavior, not piracy. Don't use \"pirate\" the way The White
    House uses \"terrorist\" - everybody will think you're an idiot.\r\n\r\n> To nip
    in the bud the process of companies doctoring a\r\n> font, renaming it, and skipping
    multi-user license fees.\r\n\r\nWhich of course it doesn't do very well at all.
    All it does is make people feel OK about doing <strong>really</strong> bad things.
    \"Hey, since I broke this Absolute EULA anyway by modifying this font, maybe I
    should just ignore it outright?\" And think of what a person would do if you went
    after him for internal modification... He'd make it a <strong>point</strong> to
    harm your business, and then he really could!\r\n\r\nAdmittedly, legal formalisms
    do hold some sway in some corporate circles. So the rich play their little games
    with their lawyer armies, while the people get trampled. Wow, what a surprise.
    Hypocritical money grubbers.\r\n\r\n> Because a foundry doesn\u2019t want to see
    visually corrupted versions of their fonts\r\n\r\nTough. It's a <strong>reasonable</strong>
    part of culture.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t believe that foundries are obligated to
    explain\r\n\r\nWho gives a crap what they're \"obligated\" to do or not. I keep
    talking about Reasonable Human Behavior, all you guys are worried about is the
    \ Formal Party Line.\r\n\r\n> The solution is a purchaser better informed ....\r\n\r\nNo,
    the solution is a font house better informed about:\r\n2) human psychology.\r\n2)
    The limits on hubris.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 18:57:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There is one case where trying to prevent internal modification might be
    excused: if the font is free. Like in the case of the MS core fonts. On the other
    hand, because of the big picture (<strong>always</strong> at play), it's quite
    hard to feel sorry for MS for having to incur a few more support calls...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 19:00:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Don\u2019t use \u201Cpirate\u201D the way The White House uses \u201Cterrorist\u201D
    - everybody will think you\u2019re an idiot.\r\n\r\nHrant, that rhetorical flourish
    is a little over the top. What do you hope to achieve by comparing me to George
    Bush and calling me an idiot?"
  created: '2005-06-20 23:25:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I didn't call you an idiot. I was pulling you back from\r\nthe precipice
    of calling internal modification \"piracy\".\r\nYou're welcome.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 01:31:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I didn\u2019t call you an idiot.\r\n\r\nHow clever you must think you are,
    to draw the specious distinction between a clumsy inference and a plain insult.
    \r\n\r\nSoftware piracy is the unauthorized use of intellectual property. If a
    EULA specifies that modification of fonts is not allowed, contravening it is piracy.
    Why is that so hard to understand?"
  created: '2005-06-21 02:36:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"You're Either With Us Or Against Us.\"\u2122\r\n\r\nYour \"clever\" is
    more of an insult -via that trademark\r\nWestern avoidance of directness- than
    anything I said.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 03:38:18'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: ">If a EULA specifies that modification of fonts is not allowed, contravening
    it is piracy.\r\n\r\nHorse shit.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-06-21 07:28:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Horse ----.\r\n\r\nThere seems to be some misunderstanding about the way
    the font business works.\r\n\r\nIt's organized around licence agreements, which
    are a form of legal contract. Not a perfect system, but it's what we have.\r\n\r\nThe
    person, or company, who writes a licence agreement can put any conditions they
    like in it. For instance, they could decide that licensees only be allowed to
    use the font if they're wearing a paper hat. You might think that's unreasonable,
    but if those are the terms of the agreement, and you don't agree, you should licence
    your fonts from a different foundry. \r\n\r\nHrant, Gerald, you seem to believe
    that users should be free to disregard whatever terms of a contract they consider
    unreasonable. That's a slippery slope. The system is un-policed as it is (which
    does little to discourage abuse) so behavior is determined by social contract.
    Yes, people cheat, but at least let's try and keep up appearances and not legitimize
    it, otherwise minority vices become mass habits.\r\n\r\nI agree with you that
    being allowed to modify the fonts which one has licensed is a good idea, which
    is why I permit it in my EULA, as do many other foundries. However, there are
    those who don't, and that's their prerogative.    \r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 11:10:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There seems to be some misunderstanding about the way human nature works.\r\n\r\n>
    That\u2019s a slippery slope.\r\n\r\nHey, <strong>Life</strong> is a slippery
    slope.\r\nIf you try to control it too much, it backfires.\r\n\r\n> let\u2019s
    try and keep up appearances\r\n\r\nI guess I'm not good at being fake.\r\n\r\n>
    that\u2019s their prerogative.\r\n\r\nYes, and in the same way, it's every individual's
    prerogative to ignore unreasonable demands (especially when they're presented
    so arrogantly). It's really that simple, and no amount of legalistic posturing
    is going to fool <strong>everybody</strong> into giving you what you want. And
    you know that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 17:26:22'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Sorry, Hrant, I have to agree with the other Nick.\r\n\r\nRules, laws, conventions...whatever
    you want to call them...make civilized life possible. To claim immunity or special
    exception, for whatever self-important reason, is to forfeit the protections that
    civilized life affords. I don't know that happened while you were growing up,
    but I was told (repeatedly) that \"everyone does it\" isn't an excuse, either.\r\n\r\nDo
    I obey speed-limit laws scrupulously? No: I am fairly confident that I can \"get
    away\" with doing 5 mph over the limit (especially when most of the people around
    me are doing 15 or more mph over) but...if I get \"caught\" and cited for speeding,
    I will take my lumps, no argument and no excuses (especially \"everyone does it\").
    Does that make me a dope, or a sucker? Probably, but at least I can retain some
    modicum of self-respect.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 17:56:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Rules, laws, conventions\u2026whatever you want to call them\u2026make
    civilized life possible.\r\n\r\nWhile I think reasonable human behavior makes
    civilized life possible. Formal laws are an aspect of that, but so are things
    like compassion, sincerity, candor, etc. that I'm sure you were told were Good
    Things while you were growing up too. So it's a balance, and a pragmatic, nebulous,
    <strong>human</strong> balance. The over-reliance on formal law benefits those
    in power; it is designed to keep us peons. And this overt formalism is perhaps
    the single greatest flaw of western culture. It is inhuman. And pretending that
    we expect people to follow an unreasonable clause in a EULA is counter to how
    I was personally brought up. And if you ignore that society is made up of individuals
    with different desires/needs, you trade in Culture for Capital.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 18:06:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, you've got your humanity schtick backwards.\r\n\r\nMost foundries
    are small businesses owned by fontmakers, not shareholders, and they have different
    views on things like how to word a EULA.\r\n\r\nDon't treat them all like impersonal
    manifestations of Big Bad Capital.\r\n\r\nThat's a very convenient attitude for
    people who want to cynically take advantage of moral relativism by pirating whatever
    they feel like. Don't fall into that trap, it's bad for your karma."
  created: '2005-06-21 18:17:15'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "While I'm not a professional type designer, this debate to me seems to be
    very similar to the war that is currently being waged in the music industry. \r\n\r\nMetallica
    stood up and decided that Napster and other file sharing programs were illegal
    and stole profits from the artist and the music industry. What this did was ruin
    a huge potential (and might I add \"free\" marketing tool) to be utilized by both
    artists and record companies. Many of us who downloaded songs for free had the
    full intention of making actual music purchases. Song downloads could have been
    seen as \"samples.\" \r\n\r\nWhen Metallica \"banned\" myself and many others
    from Napster, (their songs I downloaded to see whether I was going to purchase
    their back catalogue of albums) I vowed never to purchase ANYTHING by Metallica
    as long as I live, and I still haven't.\r\n\r\nArtists that are on major labels
    are getting raped by record companies because they're stealing money from artists
    that they attribute to loss by illegal downloading. Consumers on the other hand
    (now I believe more than ever) pirate music as a backlash against record companies
    for putting out crap music and/or charging too much for it. Record companies are
    still losing money...\r\n\r\nMoral of the story: \"dogma can destroy you.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 18:17:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> That\u2019s a very convenient attitude\r\n\r\nComing from \"let's keep
    up appearances\", yeah, right. Who is being more convenient? We both make and
    sell fonts. And you probably <strong>use</strong> fonts more than me; I really
    don't use fonts very much, so you can keep your \"piracy\"/\"terrorist\" propaganda
    to yourself. You're siding 100% with the font house position, I'm trying to strike
    a balance, to be reasonable.\r\n\r\nTerry, good point.\r\nThe problem is the all-or-nothing
    absolutism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 18:36:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">very similar to the war that is currently being waged in the music industry.\r\n\r\nThere's
    nothing like the issue of font modification in the music business.\r\nExcept perhaps
    the use of songs in commercials.\r\n\r\nAnyway, you can't really compare the font
    business to the music business, because there is no mass consumer market for fonts,
    thanks to bundling.\r\n\r\n>Consumers on the other hand (now I believe more than
    ever) pirate music as a backlash against record companies for putting out crap
    music and/or charging too much for it.\r\n\r\nThat's disingenuous. People pirate
    music because they are greedy and they won't get caught. The \"anti-establishment\"
    rationale is a gloss."
  children:
  - author:
      name: TBiddy
      picture: 110666
    body: ">That\u2019s disingenuous. People pirate music because they are greedy
      and they won\u2019t get caught. The \u201Canti-establishment\u201D rationale
      is a gloss.<\r\n\r\nIsn't this a forum for differing viewpoints and points of
      view? Anywho, I completely disagree with that. While that may be true in some
      cases, I think \"people are greedy and they won't get caught\" is also a gloss.
      While I'm guilty of this as well, its best not to speak in broad generalizations.
      \r\n\r\nI'm not claiming to be anti-establishment. All I offered was food for
      thought.\r\n\r\nWhile I agree the profits that stand to be gained from fonts
      and music is definitely astronomically different, my comparison was based more
      on a consumer perspective.\r\n\r\nWe designers often forget about regular consumers
      and that's something that should certainly not be underestimated. Like it or
      not, there is nothing that's going stop regular Joe's from thinking that fonts
      cost too darn much. \r\n\r\nOn the otherhand...Nick has a point in that if you
      don't like the rules, when you make your own fonts, tailor them specifically
      to what you think is reasonable. I don't really see why there's so much bickering.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2005-06-21 18:58:16'
  created: '2005-06-21 18:40:39'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Terry - While I agree with your main point, please be careful when comparing
    the font industry to the music industry. One is in far better shape economically,
    with very little to fear.
  created: '2005-06-21 18:41:30'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "\"I think reasonable human behavior makes civilized life possible\"\r\n\r\nI
    would like to agree with you, but I see precious little \"reasonable human behavior\"
    in my everyday life (try driving on the Washington, DC Beltway at rush hour, for
    instance), which is why \"formal rules,\" repugnant as they are and serving only
    the interests of Evil and Oppressive Capitalism, are unfortunate necessities.
    Thinking oneself \"beyond\" such things is one of the distinguishing characteristics
    of sociopaths, criminals, career politicians and CEOs."
  created: '2005-06-21 18:51:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And Nick, the smaller you are (and you and I are both small) the more it's
    plain dumb to blindly bend over for the system. Speaking of plain dumb, pragmatically,
    in the end it's plain dumb to put a no-mods clause in a EULA. If your hubris or
    confusion about human nature cause you to be plain dumb*, hey, the most -and least-
    others should do is feel sorry; but just know that you're the one who will suffer
    most for it.\r\n\r\n* Nevermind that you totally ignore the question of why you
    don't have such a clause while some other houses do. Certainly the products and
    clientele aren't always totally different. Is it too much to think about? Or perhaps
    the results of your thoughts would put a hole right through your formal legal
    absolutist facade... People can sense what not to think about - it's called a
    coping mechanism. Some of us are lousy at that though; we feel dirty about looking
    the other way.\r\n\r\nMost tellingly, let's try to figure out why font houses
    have gone back and forth about putting such a clause, while their product and
    clientele hasn't changed. When were they right, when were they wrong? Oh, I forgot,
    A Business Is Never Wrong - it's always the customer's fault (since his lawyers
    are worse). What's histerical of course is that this goes against a central tenet
    of Capitalism: The Customer Is Always Right. In the end, it's neither. The truth
    is, The Customer Is Always Duped, And Made To Never Even Realize It.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 18:57:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Thinking oneself \u201Cbeyond\u201D such things is one of the distinguishing\r\n>
    characteristics of sociopaths, criminals, career politicians and CEOs.\r\n\r\nAnd
    revolutionaries.\r\nThe French and American Revolutions, after all, were illegal.\r\n\r\nSome
    of us are just lousy peons.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 19:00:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> People pirate music because they are greedy\r\n\r\nOh, yes, Good versus
    Evil. The few bad apples ruin things for everybody.  Gol' dang it.\r\nNick, you
    should write the president's speeches.\r\n\r\nTerry, if I'm in a bitchy mood,
    it's because I see this small affair as a facet of the culture -using the term
    loosely- that's destroying humanity. And I get especially angry when I see slaves
    licking the boots of the master that's kicking them in the head.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 19:05:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">keep your \u201Cpiracy\u201D/\u201Dterrorist\u201D propaganda to yourself.\r\n\r\nIf
    this kind of inflamatory statement is you \"trying to be reasonable\", perhaps
    you could try a little harder? \r\n\r\nI know you're upset about your government,
    but why don't you go on a few protest marches or something, rather than keep bringing
    it up on Typophile? -- that would be useful and help get it out of your system."
  created: '2005-06-21 19:07:44'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Hrant, you seem to be confusing disregard for the law with civil disobedience.
    To follow your line of reasoning, there is no difference between Martin Luther
    King and Oliver North. The former openly challenged what he considered to be unjust
    laws, and accepted the consequences for his actions. The later conducted a secret
    war from the basement of the White House and, when he was caught, wrapped himself
    in the flag and declared his supralegal patriotism. The former, for all his personal
    faults, was a true hero; the latter, a simple criminal...but, of course, they
    were both lousy peons.
  created: '2005-06-21 19:10:52'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Let's get back on topic.\r\n\r\nHere is (as I see it) reason number one for
    foundries have no-mod clauses in EULAs:\r\n\r\nIt has to do with branding. Not
    the foundry's branding, but what people tend to do with brands. Like was said
    above, a modified font-x looks like font-x with a funny nose, but big companies
    want that anyway.\r\n\r\nSo big company goes to a designer (or to a branding agency,
    who then goes to a type designer). They say, we want to license font-x from foundry-y.
    We are going to buy a 10,000 seat license. Since foundry-y allows font modifications,
    we want to pay you to modify font-x so that it represents our new \"branding goals.\"\r\n\r\nSuddenly,
    the designer, or branding agency and designer, are making a lot of extra modification
    money. Most type designers/foundries would prefer to do that modification themselves,
    and get that money instead of letting it go to a third-party. Sure, they are still
    getting the licensing fees, but they want to control all money made with their
    products.\r\n\r\nSince this is in large part about money, I'm sure that any foundry
    with a no-mod clause would, for an extra licensing fee, sell a modification license
    to the licensee. If you want to modify font-x, but foundry-y doesn't allow it
    in their EULA, you can get a EULA upgrade for a fee.\r\n\r\nOr you can go to foundry-z,
    and license font-w. Foundry-z has a different EULA. That is the way our market
    works. Some people would rather criticize the market in general than talking about
    real solutions.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-21 19:11:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why don\u2019t you go on a few protest marches\r\n\r\nBujeezus. Talk about
    peonic.\r\n\r\nI will \"get it out of my system\" if/when the West backs off.\r\n\r\n>
    you seem to be confusing disregard for the law with civil disobedience.\r\n\r\nI
    don't like to direct my thoughts based on terminology.\r\n\r\nAlso:\r\n1) I don't
    think any such line can be totally clear.\r\n2) I don't advocate ignoring laws.
    I advocate deciding which laws are bad, deciding to break them or not, while being
    prepared to face the consequences.\r\n\r\nI also advocate striking down people
    who want to keep peons tied to the oars.\r\n\r\n> Some people would rather criticize
    the market\r\n> in general than talking about real solutions.\r\n\r\nHere's my
    solution:\r\nMoney-grubbers, forget about supressing culture. Humanity will shame
    you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 19:22:25'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Ummm...maybe it's time to set up a separate forum department, and call it
    "<em>Hrant and Hrave</em>."
  children:
  - author:
      name: TBiddy
      picture: 110666
    body: I love puns. :)
    created: '2005-06-21 19:39:54'
  created: '2005-06-21 19:31:00'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "Parallel universe fiction is provocative -- what if the South had won the
    Civil War? -- but I've never seen something as fantastic as this: a portrayal
    of this industry in which type foundries wear the black hats. Please.\r\n\r\nDan
    Reynolds' assessment is a good one; let me continue the story. Big Company, having
    contacted Foundry Y, finds that Foundry Y is indeed interested in doing the customization
    of their fonts. However, having only a vague understanding of intellectual property
    law -- doubtless informed by reading unmoderated posts on Typophile -- they turn
    to Some Dude X to inquire about having a cheap imitation made. This is where your
    relativism leads, Hrant: Big Company gets to cheap out, at the expense of the
    fine people of Foundry Y.\r\n\r\nSimilar to Foundry Y is a small outfit called
    Hoefler & Frere-Jones. Unlike the sinister corporations that terrorize Hrant's
    bizarro universe, we are not entirely cruel and avaricious, and we try not to
    spend more than 20% of the day thinking up new ways to screw people (except orphans
    -- we hate orphans.) What we are is a five person company specializing in the
    development of new typefaces, and our biggest thrill of the year will be scraping
    together enough cash to give another typeface designer a full-time job. We work
    our asses off, Hrant, and I'll thank you to remember that next time you generalize
    about \"font houses.\"\r\n\r\nI don't have the philosophical chops to get into
    a lofty discussion about capitalism, let alone \"destroying humanity\" or \"keeping
    people peons.\" (These items rarely come up in our weekly meetings.) I'm just
    happy to have a business that allows me to invest my resources wholly in design,
    and I'm really grateful to the people who make this possible by buying our fonts,
    EULA and all. We don't find it especially hard to treat people respectably, and
    we do our best to accommodate their wishes, but sometimes we do have to tell people
    that they can't just change the lowercase \"a\" in Gotham and call it their own.
    So be it. It's a small price to pay for being able to keep drawing typefaces."
  created: '2005-06-21 20:49:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think I should have stuck with a response like Gerald's.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Jonathan, you know what would make a bunch of people happy?\r\nIf you didn't jump
    in just once a year, and only to protect your business.\r\n\r\nHere's a quote
    I like to bring up now and again:\r\n\"I hold every man a debtor to his profession,
    from the which,\r\nas men do of course seek to receive countenance and profit,\r\nso
    ought they of duty to endeavor themselves by way of\r\nammends to be a help and
    an ornament thereunto.\"\r\n-Lord Bacon \r\n\r\nBut I guess if you think about
    it, it all fits...\r\nThe thing is, making good fonts is not good enough.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 21:33:22'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "started nice, moved fine -- then \"my way or the highway\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\"....what
    would make a bunch of people happy?\r\nIf you didn\u2019t jump in just once a
    year, and only to protect your business.\"\r\n\r\nwell i don't know you (both
    of you - Hrant & Jonathan)  but i don't think this is fair to ask just Jonathan
    - where are you or why you are not here.in that case we/you can ask where is:\r\n
    Matthew Carter?\r\n Akira Kobayashi ?\r\n Jean Porchez?\r\nZuzana Licko?\r\nErik
    Spiekermann?\r\nJeremy Tankard?\r\nRobert Slimbach?\r\nDavid Berlow?\r\nand many
    others....\r\n\r\nlet\u2019s get back on topic and keep it simple:   let's say
    a client is going to call me -- \"I like the font Gotham and I want a custom font
    like Gotham. can you do it? \"\r\n\r\nand i'm not talking about EULA, Shmula,
    Momo or Mula ,  but about DIGNITY, the ability to go to work with an AIM,  GOAL;
    \ that you're/we doing something -- Designing Typefaces. \r\n\r\nand then -- when
    we/you  are going to TypeCon you have the Dignity to stand in front of other people
    and educate them about your work!!!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 23:15:13'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "Hrant, I'm sorry to deny bunches of people their happiness. I try to contribute
    only when I have both the time to follow the discussion and something relevant
    to say, two commodities which are regrettably hard to come by.\r\n\r\nIf \"making
    good fonts is not enough,\" I'm really not sure what you expect of people who
    make fonts. I try to comport myself honorably, which for me means not publishing
    ripoffs of other people's designs (no matter how much I'd love to digitize half
    of ATF's back catalog), not cutting corners in my work (even if I know nobody's
    ever going to use the 'stfj' ligature in Requiem Italic), and providing jobs for
    as many other type designers as I can. I also support public radio and the ASPCA,
    and I generally remember to recycle tin foil.\r\n\r\nIn closing, I really didn't
    understand the Bacon quote at all."
  created: '2005-06-21 23:26:35'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Actually, Erik Spiekermann, David Berlow, and Jean-Fran\xE7ois Porchez all
    participate relatively often on Typophile. As do Thomas Phinney, Mark Simonson,
    and John Hudson\u2026 in addition to quite a few other professional type designers.
    In short, it all comes down to time and ability, Parker. All of the designers
    whose names you mentioned do attend design conferences, though. So I wouldn't
    say that they are unapproachable.\r\n\r\nI really don't think that the type designers
    who don't participate on Typophile should be criticized for not doing so. If the
    forums become interesting and relevant enough, I suspect that more might show
    up. I also don't see how anyone can fault type designers for designing fonts\u2026\r\n\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-21 23:38:35'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\"If the forums become interesting and relevant enough, I suspect that more
    might show up\"\r\n\r\nI think this is relevant enough ( and just few samples):\r\n\r\n\"Mon,
    2005-04-04 23:36\r\ni don't like my fonts, but i am not sure where the problems
    are? \r\nCan you give me some suggestion? \r\nThanks.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nMon, 2005-04-04
    18:47\r\ngreetings everyone. i just started designing a display font for my typography
    class. it's based on my handwriting (thought it might be nice to have for a personal
    identification package) and it is comprised of just capital letters. \r\n\r\n
    i don't have a name for it yet nor have i designed all the letters. but, i just
    wanted to see if anyone had some feedback for me. thanks a lot! \r\n\r\n-k\" \r\n\r\n\r\ni
    don't know if they're  still looking for feedback\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\"I also don\u2019t
    see how anyone can fault type designers for designing fonts\u2026\" \r\n\r\nDan
    -- what do you mean?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 23:51:48'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: "I hink modding a font is like remixing a song. If it's done well, it can
    really re-invent the whole song, give it a new groove, make it fresh. A lot of
    typeface history, I think, is about such remixes. There is very little of actually
    coming up with a completely new design and a lot of tweaking, modding, remixing,
    solve et coagula done. FF Bau and GalaxiePolaris are, imo, Remixes of Helvetica,
    whichinteself remixes different influences and templates. It's an ongoing cultural
    evolutionary process and as such it is not a bad one. We have the same stuff in
    music. The Dandy Warhols and/or The Hives are remixes of The Rolling Stones. \r\n\r\nNow,
    Mick and the gang could either be pissed at the fact that someone is \xABstealings
    their style or take it as a compliment or at least a inherent element of any artistic
    field. \r\n\r\nEven when it comes down to remixing a font I bought for my own
    uses or for a client, I think that is fairly okay. Binary designs are moldable
    and should be treated as such. If I need a Franklin Gothic with a differnt design
    in the \xABUmlaute\xBB (\xC4\xD6\xDC) for a job, I'll go ahead and do it in FontLab
    (IF I have the time :-). If I need a Font with real Small Caps and OSFs, I'll
    try to find a way to get it done myself or from a font service provider. I think
    this is a smaller scale than coming up wih a whole new font and in the most cases
    it's just following the acute demands of a certain job. <\r\n\r\nI still think
    some ogf Alex Branczyks remixes of comercial fonts such as OCR or Syntax were
    a lot of fun and I actually like his Syntax (used for the Philip Morris design
    shop catalogue by moniteurs, IIRC) a lot better than the new Syntax released by
    Linotype, merging the somewhat clumsier old Syntax with clean and neat OSFs. Same
    goes for Luc(as) Remix of Futura or Volkswagen. I don't know about the erspective
    of the guy whose fonts GET remixed, and I think credit (and  licenses bought beforehand)
    are due as a remix does not really give us an entirely NEW song or font (well,
    sometimes, but mostly not), but from the perspective of the end-user, I like font
    modding a lot :-D. \r\n\r\nHD Schellnack"
  created: '2005-06-22 00:07:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> i don\u2019t think this is fair to ask just Jonathan\r\n\r\n1) I do ask
    others. But I've never wanted to make it some sort of campaign.\r\n2) Some others
    -including some probably busier than Jonathan- in fact <strong>do</strong> participate.
    Not much, but more than once in a blue moon. Looking at your list I'd include
    Carter, JFP, Spiekermann and Tankard (although not all on Typophile). Heck, even
    Berlow the Quiet :-) chimes in more.\r\n3) When they do participate, it's not
    <strong>exclusively</strong> to promote/protect their business. It would be nice
    to get more discourse about the craft. Or even just font jokes.\r\n4) Jonathan
    was one of the founders of Typophile.\r\n\r\nI don't enjoy pointing the finger
    at individuals - it tends to distract from the bigger problems. But in the context
    of this thread I think it's relevant to point out that not participating and insisting
    on servile respect for one's EULA are related.\r\n\r\n> I really didn\u2019t understand
    the Bacon quote at all.\r\n\r\nI guess it means \"give back\". Honorable behavior
    is great, and I think you manage better than most. But then there is graciousness,
    selflessness. And the craft can benefit from more of that, from everybody.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n>
    let\u2019s get back on topic ....\r\n\r\n\r\nIf I were to give one reason why
    Jonathan's and Nick's attitude is too draconian, it's that type design is never
    done in a vacuum. We owe a lot to precedent. The Law is not sensitive to this,
    and a EULA can take undue advantage of that. Trying to force a company to come
    exclusively to you for a mod on your humanist sans is indecent.\r\n\r\nThis should
    be <strong>especially</strong> pertinent to people like Jonathan who rely so heavily
    on revivalism. It seems to me that the criterion for good behavior among some
    people is in fact equivalent to not getting sued, to playing the games of the
    letter of the law. This shuts out the world of moral behavior, and that's inhuman.\r\n\r\nI'm
    working on a Baskerville revival. But the fact that JB can't sue me does not reduce
    my unease, an unease that comes from issues relating to craft, not lawyers.\r\n\r\n>
    It\u2019s an ongoing cultural evolutionary process and as such it is not a bad
    one.\r\n\r\nExactly.\r\nThe trick is striking a balance between that and the practical
    needs ot designers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 00:14:54'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Hrant, NOTHING is ever done in a vacuum, nor is anything done that doesn't
    depend on something that came before. So freaking what?\r\n\r\nThere's a basic
    problem with dime-store revolutionaries like yourself: they're hypocrites. Let
    me give you an example from my own life: I have a sister-in-law who is a self-professed
    70s anti-establishment radical. She attended medical school and became a practicing
    physician but, somewhere along the way, she decided that working for a living
    sucked big time. So, she undertook some research and found a wondrous malady:
    Chronic Fatigue Syndrome. No known cause, no known cure. So, she got herself diagnosed
    with this particular malady, and has been (thanks to well-thought-out insurance)
    on medical disability for the past ten years. She doesn't have the energy to work,
    but somehow she manages the energy for at least a month-long vacation to Europe
    or Africa or the Near East every year. And she gets paid rather well for NOT working
    in between her sojourns abroad.\r\n\r\nShe, like you, despises THE MAN, and she
    seems convinced and vindicated that she has come up with a perfect scam to screw
    THE MAN. But, guess what: THE MAN covers his posterior very well; when excessive
    claims cut into THE MAN's bottom line, he simply raises the rates that EVERYONE
    else pays. So, THE MAN makes his money no matter what, and EVERYONE ELSE gets
    screwed. Somehow or another, my sister-in-law fails to see it this way and, evidently,
    you don't get this very simple fact, either.\r\n\r\nSo, please, spare us your
    flaming rhetoric. The fact that you are the most prolific poster on this website
    indicates to me that you have WAY too much time on your hands. Rather than pontificating
    on these premises, why don't you use some of that free time to go out and actually
    DO something to make the world a better place? And do it in a way that IS socially
    responsible to the rest of us...people who are \"too smart\" to play by the rules
    end up costing the rest of us dearly."
  created: '2005-06-22 00:49:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) I don't care about your sister-in-law. I barely care about you, and only
    to the extent of your relevance to type design. And you shouldn't care much about
    me, or worry about my flaws. Worry about yourself.\r\n2) For every middle-aged
    anglo male who doesn't like me, there's somebody who isn't who does. Know this.\r\n3)
    I'm Armenian. We have bigger problems than milking the last dimes out of corporations,
    and I very much am involved in trying to solve them. One way is by formulating
    ideas, giving talks, writing articles and making fonts that address the ills of
    Latinization in Armenian type design. What have you done for your script/culture?
    Don't answer, it's a rhetorical question - it's meant for you to answer to yourself,
    and think about.\r\n4) No matter how you or I use our time, it remains that your
    stance, which is a central part of your culture, is making the world a worse place.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 01:11:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, it's your ability to turn any Typophile thread into a pissing match
    in which you arrogantly insult anyone who disagrees with you, that's dissuading
    a lot of type professionals from posting.\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 03:05:20'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "Hrant:\r\n\r\nI'm not \"a founder of Typophile.\" This is Jared & Joe's ballgame;
    I'm just an occasional reader. I lent a small cup of content for the initial release
    (which is perhaps what you meant by \"giving back\"), and I was delighted to contribute
    the Mercury and Gotham fonts that are used in the current Typophile identity.
    That's all.\r\n\r\nIt's extremely mean-spirited to say that I participate here
    \"exclusively to promote or protect my business.\" (If you'd like more professionals
    to be engaged in Typophile, perhaps you should be a little less inexplicably antagonistic
    toward the profession.) I avoid most discussions precisely because I think I'd
    have obvious and self-serving things to say, and I don't think anyone reading
    the \"Quintessential American Font\" topic especially needs to hear my thoughts
    about Gotham or Knockout. I posted earlier that I try to join the conversation
    only when I've got something to say, and the font business happens to be something
    that I have a lot to say about. So what's your problem? You seem content to lambast
    me for either participation or absenteeism, which is incomprehensible. (If you're
    just looking for someone to spar with, I'm really not interested.) At any rate,
    since I'm apparently going to be criticized whether I stay or go, I think I'll
    go. It's a shame, because it took me twenty minutes to make my icon."
  created: '2005-06-22 03:38:28'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\"I think I\u2019ll go\"\r\n\r\nwait a minute i have couple things to ask
    you (I'll start a new thread )   :)"
  created: '2005-06-22 03:45:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> that\u2019s dissuading a lot of type professionals from posting.\r\n\r\nThat
    convenient escapism has already been put to the test on the ground on Typo-L,
    and has failed the test. Most \"professionals\" who don't post wouldn't post no
    matter what; they simply use me as a convenient excuse. This isn't conjecture,
    the evidence is there.\r\n\r\nBut since I'm not a bully, and want to show that
    I'm not, and since I believe that a healthy forum is good for the craft, me, and
    everybody else, that old offer still stands:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/72/4694.html\r\n\r\nSo
    no more excuses. I am not the problem. At most, I am the messenger. And judging
    by what happened on Typo-L (nothing) I'm not even that. Demonize individuals,
    and you will be a textbook peon - you will dig yourself deeper in your trench.\r\n\r\n>
    It\u2019s extremely mean-spirited to say that I participate\r\n> here \u201Cexclusively
    to promote or protect my business.\u201D\r\n\r\nNo, it's candid. I'm not a mean
    person, I just have different standards of behavior. Appreciate the difference,
    and mind the content instead of being eager to feel insulted. And my intent is
    not to make you look bad (I actually value you quite a bit) but to give you a
    view from the outside, and maybe, just maybe help you improve yourself, and as
    a result improve the craft, and me. And I'm open to the same from you, and anybody
    else. That's why I've tolerated being called a \"troll\", \"parasite\", etc. and
    have even endured a defamation campaign or two - without running away.\r\n\r\n>
    I avoid most discussions precisely because I think\r\n> I\u2019d have obvious
    and self-serving things to say\r\n\r\n?\r\nPlease, please, talk self-servingly
    about craft, instead of only about the law! We can handle it.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m
    apparently going to be criticized whether I stay or go\r\n\r\nIt's not where you
    are, but what you are trying to be.\r\nYou are a lot already, but don't hate me
    if I push you to be more.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAnd I'll even go the extra mile for
    you (plural):\r\nWhen Tina starts that new thread asking Jonathan her direct questions,
    I won't make a single post to it. Now, if Jonathan doesn't make a post to it,
    that doesn't mean he's a bad person; but it does make me not the problem. And
    forget me anyway. Just improve your own behavior.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 05:00:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, Nick, Jonathan:\r\nWould you care to address the <strong>content</strong>
    of my post of 16:14?\r\n\r\nDo you feel for example that the inability of the
    legal world to take into account the inherently derivative nature of <strong>any</strong>
    type design effort (especially revivals, Jonathan) is completely moot? Do you
    really think the only thing that matters is the interplay of the law and money?
    If so, do you expect everybody else to play along?\r\n\r\nYes, Hrant-bashing is
    the ultimate party game, but we wouldn't want it to distract from some hope of
    fruitful discourse... Well, I wouldn't.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 05:30:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, I've addressed the content of this thread quite a bit, and for my
    pains you have called me an idiot, a servile boot-licker, a George Bush speech-writer,
    a \"terrorist\" propagandist, etc. As a middle-aged Anglo male with my own business
    (glorified self-employment, actually), I am also a money-grubbing capitalist complicit
    in my culture's ongoing agenda of making the world a worse place. Sorry, what
    was the topic?\r\nOh yes, your post is bigger than mine."
  created: '2005-06-22 07:54:28'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: ">I think I should have stuck with a response like Gerald\u2019s.\r\n\r\nWell...\r\n\r\nI
    was wondering if there is another product other than software that when you buy
    it you actually haven't bought it, you've only leased it. Seriously.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me like something concocted so that products can be easily sold on the
    internet. It doesn't correspond to contract law though. You actually need signatures
    for that. Implication by purchase is nonsense.\r\n\r\nAlso, I don't know of another
    product where you are not allowed, once you have purchased it, to do whatever
    the hell you want with it. Campbell's doesn't tell me I can't add ingrediants
    to their soup. \r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-06-22 08:33:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">another product where you are not allowed, once you have purchased it, to
    do whatever the hell you want with it.\r\n\r\nIdeas about copyright and intellectual
    properrty were introduced into law from a sense of fair play towards content producers.
    For visual images, this goes back to Hogarth's \"A Harlot's Progress\" series
    of etchings. The rage of the day, it was set to music, used as decorations for
    fans and teacups, and so on; yet Hogarth lost much of the benefit of this popularity
    because of a flood of pirated copies of his prints issued by Grub Street booksellers.
    He and his friends petitioned Parliament to correct this abuse, and in 1735 an
    Act was passed vesting in designers and engravers an exclusive right to their
    own works, and restraining the multiplication of copies without their consent.
    \r\n\r\nThe principle is that the creator of a work has the right to derive the
    major benefit from it, not the copyist or plagiarist.\r\n\r\nIt is this principle
    which must be weighed against the right of buyers to do as they please with their
    purchases. For font software, license agreements define the relative rights of
    the two parties"
  created: '2005-06-22 11:02:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Sorry, what was the topic?\r\n\r\nOne aspect of the topic is the necessarily
    derivative nature of any type design*, and the conflict this causes between morals
    and the law. You haven't addressed that, and it's a central question. It takes
    two to engage in a pissing match, after all.\r\n\r\n* Especially revivals. But
    please don't use your non-revivalist nature to distract from the main question.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 17:16:02'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I'm going to go back on topic now.\r\n\r\nHere was the real question, which
    I've just reread:\r\n<em>let\u2019s say I\u2019m the client and I really love
    Minion \u2014 so what the type designer is going to do? \u201Ccopy\u201D the font?
    change the strokes? create a new Minion?\u2026\u2026.</em>\r\n\r\nIf you are the
    type designer in this case you say: \"If you really love Minion, that is great!
    Minion is a sweet font that Robert Slimbach at Adobe designed. Go to http://www.adobe.com/type
    and license one copy of the font for each of your workstations.\"\r\n\r\nIf the
    client says, \"I want my own similar-Minion,\" see the above discussion. If Adobe
    allows modifications, the client still needs to license all of the necessary copies
    before the type designer could do any changes. If Adobe doesn't allow modifications,
    the designer should recommend another font from another foundry.\r\n\r\nIf the
    client says, \"yeah, but I just want you to design me a typeface that looks just
    like Minion, because you are cheaper than Adobe,\" then the type designer should
    walk away. What goes around, comes around\u2026\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-22 18:37:12'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: ">>A lot of typeface history, I think, is about such remixes. There is very
    little of actually coming up with a completely new design and a lot of tweaking,
    modding, remixing, solve et coagula done. <<<\r\n\r\n1) This is an interesting
    point. (I also COMPLETELY agree with the musical comparison as well, but that's
    another matter :) Many different typefaces have been derived from calligraphic
    forms like Edward Johnston's Foundation and Humanist Miniscule for example. Do
    we then pay royalties to the estates of the individuals responsible for creating
    this. (An extreme point I know, but one that is important in determining exactly
    where to draw the line in legal terms.)\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 19:28:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ... then the type designer should walk away.\r\n\r\nExcept if you're Apple
    (Chalkboard) or MS (Segoe) or {virtually any large corporation}?...\r\n\r\nYou
    see, only the little people lacking lawyer-armies are adversely affected in the
    end.\r\nAnd to me at least that's enough reason to treat such laws with contempt.\r\n\r\nThe
    formalistics you elaborate are admittedly needed; I'm glad somebody finally went
    to that trouble, instead of just barking \"follow my laws, peon\". However, a
    parallel moral discussion is also needed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 19:32:06'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Dan, you were steering this thread in the right direction with your earlier
    post... this is very much about money.  That should be out in the middle of the
    table right now \u2014 a giant centerpiece of fragrant banknotes.\r\n\r\nEULAs
    are about money, not usage or modification.  We all want to make a buck doing
    this stuff.  That's why no-mod clauses are drafted: to protect fiscal (as well
    as creative) interests.  That's also why Hrant wants to argue these prohibitions
    away... to exercise this Objectivist greed without remorse, reprimand or justification.
    \ While I am certain that Hrant's argument strikes a chord in all our greedy hearts,
    it seems he speaks the 'reasonable' logic that pressed the capitalist bootprint
    into his forehead.  Greed is good, but not good at justifying its goodness with
    words.\r\n\r\nBut I'm glad Hrant has the ballz to spit fury.  If he's not entertaining,
    he's speaking from the depths of his psyche (even the insults).\r\n\r\nCivil disobedience
    was mentioned.  Complete lunacy.  No lives are being taken in the font industry;
    just livelihoods.  Ethically, if you must prepare your closing arguments before
    committing the offence, you should perhaps petition to change the law before breaking
    it.  The least you nay-sayers could do is license from another distributor/foundry
    that caters to your philosophy, as Nick has valiantly been restating, rather than
    rail against the efforts of our contemporaries, however adverse you may be to
    them.\r\n\r\nSo what of respect?  What about respecting/protecting creative and
    fiscal interests?  What about reasonable compensation for services provided?  Are
    we all to go it alone... dog eat dog ripping off each other's software as we commiserate
    in forums about the lack of money to be made in type design?\r\n\r\nAnd terminology
    aside, I think we can all agree that a thief and a pirate are equal.  Let's not
    split hairs about taking money in breach of EULA clauses."
  created: '2005-06-22 19:42:11'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "2) A portion of this discussion that I'm surprised hasn't been fully addressed
    is what everyone thinks of using a purchased typeface for modification in a logo,
    logotype, or masthead. \r\n\r\n3) I am very new and inexperienced in the realms
    of type design and this forum. While I'll point no fingers I think its best that
    we a) don't take things too personally and b) don't resort to personal attacks.
    \r\n\r\n4)Tina brought up some good points about certain topics NOT being addressed
    by frequent users of this site. It often creates a climate of a) people apprehensive
    about joining and b) feeling like this is an exclusive club for only certain selected
    individuals.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 19:49:34'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>A portion of this discussion that I\u2019m surprised hasn\u2019t been
    fully addressed is what everyone thinks of using a purchased typeface for modification
    in a logo, logotype, or masthead.</em>\r\n\r\n99% of the time, if a designer makes
    a logo or masthead by setting the text in Illustrator or Photoshop, and then converts
    the image to paths or pixels, and then changes the letters that way, it is fair
    use*, because it does not change the font data. Some type designers get peeved
    by this, but it is permitted.\r\n\r\n\r\n* Unless of course, it was written in
    the EULA that you could NOT do that. I know of no EULAs that do just that. A few
    foundries (just two or three small ones, I think) may not allow you to set entirely
    typographic logos with their fonts, without a special license\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-22 20:11:44'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "sorry, my posts aren't showing up properly for whatever reason...the beginning
    was:\r\n\r\n>>>A lot of typeface history, I think, is about such remixes. There
    is very little of actually coming up with a completely new design and a lot of
    tweaking, modding, remixing, solve et coagula done.\r\n\r\n1) This is an interesting
    point. (I also COMPLETELY agree with the musical comparison as well, but that's
    another matter :) Many different typefaces have been derived from calligraphic
    forms like Edward Johnston's Foundation and Humanist Miniscule for example. Do
    we then pay royalties to the estates of the individuals responsible for creating
    this. (An extreme point I know, but one that is important in determining exactly
    where to draw the line in legal terms.)\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 20:16:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What about reasonable compensation for services provided?\r\n\r\nSilas,
    I'll resist the urge to pick apart the many elements of your arguments that I
    disagree with, but I will [re]state this: I am in fact trying to strike a balance.
    Otherwise I would advocate free-wheeling appropriation, like making direct derivatives
    of a design without the client buying a commensurate license of the original.
    That extreme and the other extreme (Thou Must Not Breathe Without My Express Written
    Permission) are ubiquitous, and easy cop-outs. While I'm trying to tread the nebulous,
    slippery path of \"reasonability\"; because I think that's what's most important.
    And anybody who thinks the letter of the law is more important has my pity.\r\n\r\nSo
    my problem is with the hypocrisy of being obsessively protective of things that
    don't really totally belong to us. Like Adobe getting a design patent on a Garamond.
    It's indecent. That to me over-rides the legal considerations.\r\n\r\n> Greed
    is good\r\n\r\nYou see, I don't even believe that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 20:23:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">derivative nature of any type design\r\n\r\n(I would argue that, but not
    here)\r\n\r\nI don't think that has anything to do with this thread, which is
    about \"font software' as it is described in EULAs.\r\n\r\nTinkering with someone
    else's font (modification/customization) is not type design.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 20:46:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I repeat: Your strict formalistics are at odds with human nature.\r\nHmmm,
    maybe if you tried your hand at grayscale pixelfont design...\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of type design, what happened to that \"challenge\" of ours?\r\nI remember it
    was your idea, but then you said you became too busy.\r\nSince you're now the
    4th most prolific poster, maybe the other Nick\r\nwould appreciate you spend the
    time delving into the craft instead...\r\nNot that a half-dozen or so posts a
    day -and most just a few lines in\r\nmy own case at least- are all that a normal
    human should be able\r\nto manage in one working day.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 20:54:56'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Hrant: I stand corrected.  Your arguments led me to believe things you did
    not explicitly state.\r\n\r\nThis is precicely the importance of having every
    intention set in stone - in a EULA - to avoid conflict of interpretation and to
    make one's position plain and simple.  If Jonathan doesn't want you to breathe
    without written consent, that's his perogative and with good reason... in order
    to limit the exponential degradation of his work and income.  He has a right to
    protect his published work and wallet.\r\n\r\nLetter and spirit of the law is
    a balancing act, yes, but when the letter is as clear as prohibiting modification,
    what difference in spirit is there to deduce?  Go ahead and break the EULA.  Nobody
    has the money to sue you anyway.\r\n\r\nI'm making broader strokes here, and in
    that motion I'd like to spell out my stance...\r\n\r\nR-E-S-P-E-C-T\r\n\r\nIf
    you mod a font in breach of EULA, you're working in a deficit of ethics and morality.
    \ To attempt to justify a lack of respect in such behavior with popular opinion
    and superior reasoning, you're denying the EULA's author any attempt at conducting
    business in the manner he/she deems fit.\r\n\r\nI still say there is hope for
    your logic though.  You just need to deliver a more inviting argument and not
    scare Nick with anti-American slander.  Knowing your intention, I would gladly
    allow you to craft a derivative of anything I have done so long as you shared
    the process and/or profit.\r\n\r\nI'm still up in the air about this particular
    subject so it's good to see it in the forums.  It is one of the factors holding
    me back from my publishing debut.  (I focus on private commissions.)  I don't
    see any of the larger distributors protecting the designers as vigilantly as we
    can protect ourselves when it comes to aftermarket life of the software.  I'm
    content in working closely with respectable clients that respect my services.
    \ If everyone conducted themselves with such respect, we would perhaps have no
    need for EULAs at all.  Sadly, that's not the case, and you're trying to make
    it all seem so sane.  Do go on."
  created: '2005-06-22 21:04:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Your strict formalistics are at odds with human nature.\r\n\r\nType is a
    formal affair. A large part of human nature may think \"it's all derivative\",
    but when one looks deeper, one finds that there are varying degrees of derivation,
    and some categories which are quite distinct. Your buddy John Downer explored
    some of these distinctions: http://www.emigre.com/EFoITrbF.php\r\n\r\nThere is
    a huge difference in quality between original work done from scratch (ie drawn
    with bezier tools, without the benefit of tracing scans) and fonts made by tweaking
    someone else's data.\r\n\r\n>what happened to that \u201Cchallenge\u201D of ours?\r\n\r\nSorry,
    that was round about the time I moved to the UK, and everything just piled up
    on me and I couldn't squeeze it into my schedule, then it seemed like the time
    had passed.\r\n\r\nAre you still interested in my having a go at it?"
  created: '2005-06-22 22:06:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Silas, again, I will try to focus on one thing.\r\n\r\n> If you mod a font
    in breach of EULA, you\u2019re\r\n> working in a deficit of ethics and morality.\r\n\r\nWhile
    I feel that a EULA with a no-mod clause is such. To me <strong>that</strong> is
    what's disrespectful.\r\n\r\n> there are varying degrees of derivation\r\n\r\nIndeed.
    But always some. And this conflicts with your absolutism.\r\n\r\n> Are you still
    interested in my having a go at it?\r\n\r\nEven though it was your idea (or at
    least you liked it back when somebody proposed it - I remember being myself reluctant,
    at first) I'd feel bad if you went to the trouble just for me. If somebody could
    find that old thread, maybe we could ask if the broader interest remains.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Nick, please know that there are a lot of things about you -not to mention some
    of your fonts, like Panoptica- that I like. Like I remember you explaining the
    reasoning behind Oneleigh to me at ATypI-99, and my thinking highly of it. Maybe
    I'm strange, but the fact that I think you are so wrong about so many important
    things doesn't sour things for me at all. Maybe because I think you are right
    about enough other things in type, or maybe more important things outside of type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 23:03:04'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: So, Hrant, what do you charge per hour to modify a third-party font? Enough
    to cover legal liability?
  created: '2005-06-22 23:41:42'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "Hrant: Sometimes you just make me sad. I appreciate your comments on many
    of my fonts in the critique forums, and I even enjoy the bomb throwing from time
    to time. But here you've gone to far with the personal insults, and just plain
    rudeness. Oddly, however, in this instance I find myself agreeing with you on
    this point: no-mod clauses are no fun for anyone. \"No mod for resale\" clauses
    make more sense. At the same time the practice of \"mod to skinny out of buying
    licenses\" is no good either.\r\n\r\nAs for the idea of remix: It can be good
    or it can be cheap and lousy. There is also the concept of \"re-perform\", which
    is better in my mind. It's one thing to sample someone's song and add very little.
    It's another thing to perform it and add your own touch. There's a fine line that
    must be drawn. No one likes cheap font cd's filled with cheap, slightly altered
    and renamed fonts. At the same time, I would love to see Jonathan interpret Frutiger
    or Zapf, just as he interprets the work of designers whose work has now entered
    the public domain. Maybe works need to enter the public domain much more quickly.
    What if all works became public domain after 10 years? It would make more sense
    to me. That being said, I may be reticent to release my fonts into the public
    domain when they turn 10 if they are still making me money :)"
  created: '2005-06-23 00:37:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Silas, I don't know. But one of the things I really hate is \"covering legal
    liability\". It's a pervasive and growing cancer that creates a regressive, petty
    society.\r\n\r\nChristian, different things make each of us sad. You think this
    is some kind of cheery thread for me? But if we care about Typophile it's very
    important not to let the behavior of others dampen our participation. I value
    candor as much as you seem to value civility; but most of all I value tolerance,
    and not just of content, but of expressive style. What else could hope to work
    in such a heterogenous environment?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 02:08:38'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: ":)\r\n\r\nguys --  this thread  is with 1370  reads; 1500 -- beer on the
    house.\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2005-06-23 02:12:51'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "<cite>...no-mod clauses are no fun for anyone.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's not about
    fun.  It's about protecting investments and interests.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>There\u2019s
    a fine line that must be drawn.</cite>\r\n\r\n...or loads of them all over the
    place according to the situations you've listed, Christian.  A no-mod clause saves
    the trouble and discussion, not to mention a potential loss of profits.\r\n\r\nAnd
    how far does one have to tweak an existing design for it to be a respectable reinterpretation?
    \ Who is to judge?  I'd say the licensor/designer of the original has 51% say.
    \ Even in the music industry, remixes require the approval of the original artist/publisher
    prior to release."
  created: '2005-06-23 02:16:09'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\ni think that Nick is simple and clear:\r\n\r\n\"Tinkering with someone
    else\u2019s font (modification/customization) is not type design.\""
  created: '2005-06-23 02:21:04'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Mmmmmm... beeeer.\r\n\r\nThis is an extremely valuable issue... and I use
    the term 'valuable' in the most literal sense.  There's a lot of easy money to
    be made in aftermarket modification.  We all need to know where each other stand.\r\n\r\nAnother
    thing I'm neglecting to mention \u2014 but will at this point for the side of
    the pro-mod camp \u2014 is the eduacational value of decompiling a font.  There
    is a lot to learn of metrics by reverse engineering a professionally tuned design...
    things that printed specimens will never explain so plainly.  A no-mod-for-resale
    clause is certainly more reasonable taking this into consideration."
  created: '2005-06-23 02:32:10'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "<cite>i think that Nick is simple and clear:\r\n\u201CTinkering with someone
    else\u2019s font (modification/customization) is not type design.\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    certainly isn't type design, but it can be a lucrative service.  Pep Boys isn't
    in the business of putting wheels on your car, but they sure can replace them
    with shinier ones.\r\n\r\nThrough the hazy ethics of modding a font, there is
    still the monetary exchange.\r\n\r\n<em>NO MOD FOR PROFIT</em> seems fair enough
    to me.  If you have the time and skill to mod a font, why would you be willing
    to work pro bono?  If you're modding for personal use, you must be doing something
    valuable."
  created: '2005-06-23 02:42:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A no-mod clause saves the trouble and discussion,\r\n> not to mention a
    potential loss of profits.\r\n\r\nHuh, the same is achieved on the other end by...
    piracy! My point remains that in looking for a good balance, you cannot divorce
    humans morals from this, or from anything else for that matter. \"Who is to judge?\"
    The same as always: the individual. This isn't The Borg or something where we
    defer our decisions to some central \"server\"; we have <strong>no choice</strong>
    but to exercise our judgment, our reasonability, in everything. Any other view
    can only cater to the powers that be (not us), channeled by the ideological lethargy
    of some.\r\n\r\n> \u201CTinkering with someone else\u2019s font (modification/customization)
    is not type design.\u201D\r\n\r\nI found that laughably over-simple.\r\nSimple
    things are cute. For 5 minutes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 02:58:58'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Piracy <strong>is</strong> the loss of profits.\r\n\r\nSure, we aren't the
    Borg and surely there is no Secret Font Police.  And who is to judge, you ask?
    \ The <strong>Licensor</strong> of the work... not the End User!  The End User
    enters into the Agreement when the license is purchased.  The End User must RESPECT
    that Agreement.  There's no subjectivity in that!  There's not autonomy in the
    interpretation!  Deal with it!\r\n\r\n<cite>we have no choice but to exercise
    our judgment, our reasonability, in everything. Any other view can only cater
    to the powers that be (not us), channeled by the ideological lethargy of some.</cite>\r\n\r\nIn
    Johnathan's case, he <strong>is</strong> the powers that be, and more power to
    him.  His End Users \"have no choice\" but to go elsewhere for their fonts, not
    to \"exercise their judgment\" on matters of abiding by his EULA once they have
    entered into it!\r\n\r\nA round of rum shots!  Let's see which way Hrant's judgment
    and reasonability sways.  Raise the Jolly Roger!  How many of your designs are
    publicly licensable?  Where do you bury your pirate's booty?"
  created: '2005-06-23 03:37:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Arrr, scallawag!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 04:03:51'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "<cite>Another thing I\u2019m neglecting to mention \u2014 but will at this
    point for the side of the pro-mod camp \u2014 is the eduacational value of decompiling
    a font. There is a lot to learn of metrics by reverse engineering a professionally
    tuned design\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease don't take me as a pro-no-mod but...\r\n\r\nWhat
    EULA is stopping anyone from opening any font they own and looking at the metrics
    if they want to? Not doing so, just because the EULA forbids you to do so seems
    a bit too much (to me). After all, it doesn't \"harm other designer's means of
    living\", does it?"
  created: '2005-06-23 04:09:16'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "<cite>After all, it doesn\u2019t \u201Charm other designer\u2019s means of
    living\u201D, does it?</i>\r\n\r\nAh, the victimless crime.  We're officially
    in the deep end over here, Nick and Jonathan.  The water's fiiiiine.  Hrant, give
    us a cannonball!"
  created: '2005-06-23 04:27:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Matey, let me tell you my favorite tale from the high sees, one that will
    shiver the timbers of any salty rapscallion, arrr!\r\n\r\nI had just finished
    what was then -and remained for 10 years- the typeface I had spent the most time
    on (about 800 hours). It was a serif Armenian font, a niche market then quite
    thirsty (but now no longer). I released it, sold a number, and was glad to see
    it used anywhere and everywhere. Most users had certainly not paid for it. But
    being the pragmatist, I could simply not get angry. Which isn't to say I don't
    like/need money - I'm human too. In fact, the sales and commissions I made in
    the last quarter of that year financed my \"famed\" 6-month sojourn in Barcelona;
    I only left for LA -via Beirut- when I ran out of money (and missed my Armenian
    community too much). Anyway. What happened is one day I saw a CD cover with a
    sans version of my darling design! I tracked it down, and found out it was done
    by an old buddy of mine from back home!! Yes, I was a bit angry at that appropriation,
    but it subsided quickly, and required no action, even though the guy was about
    15 minutes away from me. You know what peeved me the most? That he chopped off
    the serifs <strong>but didn't alter the spacing...</strong> That's a strong aspect
    of the relationship I have -and I'd like to keep as much as possible- with my
    work. Note that I didn't have a EULA. And THAT DIDN'T MATTER ONE DIDDLY, not to
    him, not even to me! Now, I don't expect -or even want- everybody else to be like
    me, trust me. But I'm not some alien. What I felt, and what I still feel, is an
    aspect of humanity, and like any aspect of humanity, it can't be conveniently
    ignored.\r\n\r\nA more \"glorious\" anecdote along these lines:\r\nLegend has
    it that when the barbarian hordes were pillaging Constantinople, a Byzantine noble
    sighed: \"If only they knew what they were destroying, I wouldn't mind one bit.\"
    To me, this is the sort of thing that elevates us above mere animals.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 04:27:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What EULA is stopping anyone from opening any font they own and looking
    at the metrics\r\n\r\nNone that I know of. But some <strong>do</strong> prohibit
    changing one BCP and saving it out to your drive, even though that doesn't hurt
    anybody either.\r\n\r\n> Hrant, give us a cannonball!\r\n\r\nHey, I honestly hadn't
    read that when I hit post on that long message!\r\nI can only type about 30wpm
    to begin with.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 04:30:57'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Hrant, you're more human than human.  That's perhaps what irks your detractors.\r\n\r\nYour
    testimonial brings up another of my thoughts... thanks for the segue...\r\n\r\nHad
    your friend been required (or politely asked) to at least contact you regarding
    derivatives in a EULA, you would have at least been able to advise him on the
    spacing issue.  You probably could have arranged a subsequent licensing arrangement
    for the derivative.  A better product would have been delivered and compensation
    could have been spread around.\r\n\r\nHuman or not, poor behavior is poor behavior
    as determined by environment.  A bull in a china shop is still going to destroy
    the goods.  The type biz environment is fragile and delicate, and a lot of items
    aren't packaged with enough foam peanuts and crumpled newspaper.  A no-mod clause
    is an attempt at padding against breakage, but then these items sit on the same
    shelves as your open-box wares.  The bull is ignorant of the packaging... he'll
    smash them both the same.\r\n\r\nThe balance of extremes which you are striving
    for will only be attainable if type designers and modders and users work in concert
    and in good faith... to tame those bulls or at least keep them in the pasture.
    \ There must be a network of trust and respect and conditioning in business matters
    for your ideal market to emerge.  Naturally, communication and respect is the
    crux of this dreamland, and some animals will never learn the language.\r\n\r\nWhat
    can be learned from the Open Source Initiative?  Has this been discussed at any
    conferences or forums with respect to font licensing?"
  created: '2005-06-23 05:19:40'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "I guess my post was misunderstood.\r\n\r\nWith <em>What EULA's stopping anyone...</em>
    I meant to say that no EULA will ever be able to stop anyone from opening a font
    and looking into it for fun or for education or whatever else. In fact, no law
    can stop anyone from doing something that isn't public or doesn't affect others.
    So the \"open for education\" argument doesn't really influence EULAs, mod, no-mod,
    or no-mod-for-profit.\r\n\r\nAlso, I wasn't <i>stating</i> that just because something
    has no victim it's right to do it. I just thought that since \"it hurts the type
    designer\" is so used to justify EULAs, it should be possible to use the opposite
    to justify not following them. It was all one big question, really, but I guess
    my point was lost in my bad english."
  created: '2005-06-23 05:59:29'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "I understood your post.  I just took it to the rhetorical extreme for the
    sake of analogy.\r\n\r\nTrue, no written word will control free will.  They may
    influence people's thinking though, which in turn affects their behavior (sometimes
    to a reactionary effect.)"
  created: '2005-06-23 06:16:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">> \u201CTinkering with someone else\u2019s font (modification/customization)
    is not type design.\u201D\r\n\r\n>I found that laughably over-simple.\r\n\r\nSuccessful
    design is purposeful; everything is there for a reason.\r\nTypefaces that are
    derived from others, either by tracing scans or re-using bezier paths (and metrics)
    lack purpose, because the re-worker is merely repeating shapes (like mouthing
    a foreign language phonetically) and has little concept of the underlying syntax
    and vocabulary, of why it looks the way it does, of what it means.\r\n\r\nI admit
    that it is possible to perform a purposeful font-mod: that's what I did with headline
    and agate versions of DIN. But I really don't consider that to be type design
    -- it's tinkering, a technical procedure: production artist, not designer. \r\n\r\n>I
    found that laughably over-simple..cute for 5 minutes\r\n\r\nThere you go again,
    with the dismissive editorializing.\r\nForgive me for lecturing you, but it's
    not enough to cover yourself, when things occasionally get a little hot, by saying
    how much you like some aspects of your engagee's work (thanks for that anyway!),
    you have to trust in the logic of your argument, edit out the adjectives, and
    not insult them in the first place.\r\n\r\nYeah, your reaction is open and honest,
    but it is also, if not malicious, still hurtful and arrogant. A little more wit
    is required for a good insult, otherwise it's just bad manners. \r\n\r\nYou're
    talking about a principle which is central to my work as a designer/artist/whatever,
    and calling it \"laughable\" and \"cute for 5 minutes\". Fortunately, I'm pretty
    thick-skinned, otherwise I wouldn't keep coming back for punishment.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 11:14:11'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Typefaces that are derived from others, either by tracing scans or re-using
    bezier paths (and metrics) lack purpose, because the re-worker is merely repeating
    shapes...</em>\r\n\r\nis this a mantra that you're forced to keep repeating? i'm
    sure i could find at least 4 examples of such language in recent posts. sure,
    revivals may not be the most creative work, but that's what i get paid to do--to
    clean up the old Lanston library. give me <em>some</em> credit. so before you
    acuse others of making comments that are \"hurtful and arrogant,\" watch what
    you say."
  created: '2005-06-23 14:14:41'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Paul, I'm not sure that he is definitely refering to work like yours. P22
    is the legitimate heir of the Lanston Collection. The website credits the original
    designers. These fonts of your are reviving new life into old classics, not stealing
    other people's work, renaming it, and publishing it as their own. There are designers
    to do that, too, unfortunately.\r\n\r\nAlso, with OpenType features, you are creating
    computer programs that are just good, and bring real value to the user. A hack
    font producer wouldn't go to that trouble.\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-23 16:09:45'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "I must interject here.\r\n\r\nSomeone here adviced Hrant to go out and use
    his time to make a better world instead of wasting it on Typophile teaching others
    about the so-called human nature. I paraphrase, but it is of no real consequence.\r\n\r\nHrant
    already does that. It's not his fault if someone's blind."
  created: '2005-06-23 16:36:05'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Sergej,\r\n\r\nI don't see that your comment is constructive in the least.
    Hrant has told us already that, for every person who dislikes him, there are many
    more who love him; however, I don't dislike <em>him</em>, just his deplorable
    behavior. He gives as his excuse/justification that he's Armenian. Yes, throughout
    history Armenia has suffered some rather horrible treatment, but it's an issue
    he needs to take up with the Ottoman Turks or imperial Russians, if he can find
    any. I'm not responsible, nor is anyone else here.\r\n\r\nAnd, for all his tirades
    against the evils of Capitalism, let's be perfectly honest: were it not for the
    fruits of those evils, this forum would not exist. In the grand scheme of things,
    the subjects we deal with here are utterly superfluous. In order to communicate
    via the written word, anything more than one typeface with the appropriate language-specific
    character set is a luxury. Evil capitalism and its excesses also allowed me and
    several other foundries represented by myfonts.com to contribute tens of thousands
    of dollars to tsumani relief in the wake of the disaster than hit Southeast Asia
    late last year.\r\n\r\nHrant is obviously an intelligent person. His command of
    English is far better than a significant majority of native speakers whom I encountered
    on a daily basis, and neither myself nor most of the other participants in these
    hallowed halls, I am fairly confident, could locate a restroom, get directions,
    or make a phone call if we had to do it in Armenian. But it would be far more
    constructive\u2013and pleasant\u2013if, in all instances, he used his intelligence
    for the increase of knowledge, rather than sowing discord by railing about the
    world's ills and engaging in <em>ad hominem</em> attacks against other participants.\r\n\r\nThis
    forum is a <em>temenos</em>, a sacred circle where devotees of the typographic
    arts gather to learn and to share. Yes, evil and social injustice exist in the
    big, bad world out there, but it would be much more agreeable if those things
    stayed out there, if just for a little while."
  created: '2005-06-23 17:47:56'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: ">Typefaces that are derived from others, either by tracing scans or re-using
    bezier paths (and metrics) lack purpose, because the re-worker is merely repeating
    shapes\u2026\r\n\r\nConsidering the hundreds of incarnations of Helvetica, Caslon
    and Garamond to name a few....it seems pretty clear to me that there is much modification
    and interpretation that goes into type design. I don't know if this fair to type
    design or typographers to paint a visual with so broad a brush.\r\n\r\nThere are
    many professional type designers who re-interpret historical typography. Matthew
    Carter and Akira Kobayashi, I'm sure would have a thing or two to say on the subject.
    \r\n\r\nWhat seems to be an underlying problem in the \"ruffling of feathers\"
    on this particular thread is that no one has clearly defined the terms. Until
    there is one definitive term for the word \"modification\" for example, can we
    all truly understand each individual's point of view.\r\n\r\nAnd BTW, as a side
    note...how is this thread not showing up on the \"hottest\" section on the homepage?
    This seems to be one of the most active threads on this site."
  created: '2005-06-23 19:05:15'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I just wanted to say that I'm thoroughly enjoying this thread by all participants,
    including Hrant. I do have one thing that I must interject though:\r\n\r\nYou
    are certainly not the sole minority on this site. I'm sure there are others. I
    happen to be an African-American male who has interests in art (I'm an illustraotr
    and painter), music (I write and listen to metal and punk music), I enjoy designing
    type, and I'm a graphic designer. There are not many African-Americans involved
    in any of the fields of interest I choose. I often feel like a man alone on a
    quest as well. As a Black man in America I have dealt with many kinds of attrocities,
    social injustice, bigotry, and isolation. There are two things one can do when
    faced with these things 1) wear it on your sleeve or 2) accept as a part of who
    you are and what you've become.\r\n\r\nMy point is...no one really cares about
    any of that about me. They'll care more about what type of person I am. While
    I think you've brought up many interesting and GREAT points on this site, I perceive
    it is a cop out to bring up ethnicity into certain discussions. I'm certainly
    not playing the race card here, and I don't think this discussion warrants it.
    \r\n\r\nI commend your efforts and involvement in social activities, but it has
    forced others to justify what they do outside of the world of typography, which
    truly has nothing to do with this thread. \r\n\r\nPlease offer your opinions and
    advice. But name calling will never get your point across. I wish you good luck
    in all your endeavors."
  created: '2005-06-23 19:19:28'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "<em>\u201CI don\u2019t see that your comment is constructive in the least.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nOh,
    but it is, it is."
  created: '2005-06-23 23:13:33'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Clever, clever.
  created: '2005-06-23 23:37:38'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "How about starting a whole new forum on Typophile for philosophy?  This thread
    is rendering some tasty bits on some topics I'd love to hear and learn more of.
    \ With the direction this thread has taken, I'm inclined to believe that we cannot
    fully separate politics (or personality) from what we all come here to discuss.
    \ It could be nothing but beneficial to have a tertiary arena to let it all out.\r\n\r\nNot
    to get mushy, but we have a real opportunity to meet minds across so many differing
    backgrounds and experiences.  Starting from a shared affinity for type is an ideal
    way of bridging cultural voids... to learn quite a bit more about the culture
    of what we all obviously love equally... <em>visual communication</em>.\r\n\r\n*...triumphant
    orchestral swell... blazing sunset... fade... roll credits*"
  created: '2005-06-24 02:04:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Paul, sorry if you took my mantra the wrong way.\r\n\r\nI really don't think
    it was a targeted insult along the lines of the Hrantistic \"if you say that people
    will think you're stupid\" or \"your theory is laughably over-simplistic\", and
    no counter-argument.\r\n\r\nTerry has asked for a clarity of definition for \"modification\",
    and that's what I've been trying to do all along.\r\n\r\nI wasn't dissing revivals
    per se, or the people who do them (which would include myself anyway). I was talking
    about a certain kind of font modification (aka derivation) -- one done by tracing
    scans or re-using bezier paths. When I said it lacked purpose, that was in the
    context of the phrase in the previous sentence, \"successful design is purposeful\".
    I am making an argument, not an insult. The argument is that cleaning up someone
    else's design, or restyling it is not connected to a typeface design's underlying
    structure, its purpose, its reason to be. Polishing up someone else's design,
    or applying a veneer of style, is skilled work requiring a good typographic eye,
    but it is not design, and it is the disconnect from the original purpose of the
    design that makes it that way.\r\n\r\nThe reason I'm repetitive is that I'm responding
    to frequent statements from people saying there's no such thing as originality
    (\"creativity/originality\" thread) or that all typefaces are derivative (this
    thread). I find those kind of opinions demeaning to the practice of type design,
    and can't let them go unchallenged.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-24 14:09:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "thank you for clarifying your comments, nick. i guess i was just a bit touchy
    there...\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m inclined to believe that we cannot fully separate
    politics (or personality) from what we all come here to discuss.</em>\r\n\r\nmaybe
    not fully, but i think that perhaps personal blogs (available to uppercase members)
    are a better forum for more political views. but again i might be wrong..."
  created: '2005-06-24 15:55:50'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: ">>Polishing up someone else\u2019s design, or applying a veneer of style,
    is skilled work requiring a good typographic eye, but it is not design, and it
    is the disconnect from the original purpose of the design that makes it that way.\r\n\r\nHmmm...Nick,
    I think I'm understanding your distinction. I definitely see the difference. So
    what term would you attribute to those who make their living primarily by reviving
    or updating previous typefaces? \r\n"
  created: '2005-06-24 16:19:40'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Returning to the topic: Reinterpretation of existing fonts is tied to changing
    technologies. Every new technology in typesetting has resulted in a flurry of
    sloppy reworkings of the typefaces available in the technology that was displaced.
    That's always been Fase One...\r\n\r\nAfter a certain amount of time new typefaces
    would be developed, making use of the new possibilities of the new technology
    (eg the step from lead to photomech, then to cathode). That's what I would like
    to call Fase Two. \r\n\r\nDue to the low treshold of \"building\" typefaces with
    PostScript (the current technology) we have seen a termendous increase in original
    and not so original typedesign. In principle a good thing, but... This low treshold
    has also resulted in a lot of rehashing of old typefaces. And that is a bad thing.\r\nWhy?
    First, because reusing old type means reintroducing past mistakes. In the old
    days typedesigners had a lot of restictions to consider -- matrices with fixed
    widths or sets of widths, unit systems, etc. Compromises had to be make. And those
    show! Second, because \"staying\" with traditional type inhibits new developments.
    In my view new developments are needed to take type to the next plane: more legibility,
    more flexiblity, more individuality, more beauty, more...\r\n\r\nI think that
    we should get out of Fase Two (and don't even mention Fase One). At present \"out
    of the box\" typography is pretty awful. There are discussions on Typophile about
    what spacing (or none) should be around em-dashes. And so on. These should be
    unnecessary, given the possibilities of modern technology, IF these problems had
    been adressed by typedesigners and programmers. \r\n\r\nI think, that's what should
    concern typedesigners, NOT some x-version of Baskerville. I would like to see
    typedesigners working on the \"Baskerville\" of our times."
  created: '2005-06-24 16:44:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, when I limit my argumentation with you it's because you've clearly
    stopped growing (and there's a shade of fascism in that). There's a point when
    one can cross over from expressing/defending one's views to simply wasting time
    and causing pointless aggravation - and I'd like to avoid that. Maybe you didn't
    notice that I didn't react to your initial over-simple statement of What Isht
    Type Design; I only reacted to address a third party.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of the nature
    of type design, you and Jonathan are of course entirely too civilized to engage
    in a cogent (and in this case necessarily heated) debate about revivalism... You'd
    much rather \"keep up appearances\" against the unwashed masses. And what is type
    design to me? At the highest level, it involves going beyond the surface of making
    pretty glyphs that look happy during deliberative observation, and making little
    machines that leverage notan to create good boumas; this is something you for
    one have yet to do. You are free to call this an insult; but what I feel I owe
    you -or maybe more accurately Typophile via you- more that Western civility is
    Human candor.\r\n\r\nIn short: stop whining - it's bad for appearances.\r\nShow
    us instead your Easy Hollywood Diet for converting Eunoia to a text face. From
    that [attempt] we might [all] actually learn something.\r\n\r\n> I would like
    to see typedesigners working on the \u201CBaskerville\u201D of our times.\r\n\r\nBut
    what if the designer prefers living in the past, or in his cocoon?\r\nOne might
    in fact wonder (or even ask point-blank) how much of a designer such a designer
    is.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-24 17:06:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">too civilized to engage in a cogent (and in this case necessarily heated)
    debate about revivalism\r\n\r\nIf that's what you think, you haven't been reading
    my posts. You stated that all typefaces are derivative -- perhaps you would have
    notice my engagement if I had said I found that statement laughably over-simplified.
    As it is, I have been attempting to establish the idea that there are different
    kinds of revival (remember I put a link to John Downer's \"Call it what it is\"
    essay?)\r\n\r\n>So what term would you attribute to those who make their living
    primarily by reviving or updating previous typefaces?\r\n\r\nThat's a tough one.
    I don't like job descriptions.\r\nTypographer is pretty general for people who
    work with type.\r\nThe important thing is to never describe someone who does a
    revival as the designer of that typeface. You could say they restored it, adapted
    it, or digitized it.\r\n\r\n>and making little machines that leverage notan to
    create good boumas; this is something you for one have yet to do. \r\n\r\nI'm
    not quite sure what that means. Whatever, that's your opinion which you don't
    support with an argument, although you state it as a fact, because you are the
    big self-appointed authority on type.\r\n\r\n>In short: stop whining - it\u2019s
    bad for appearances.\r\n\r\nHrant, PLEASE stop telling people what to do, eg \"Know
    This...\" in that bossy manner of yours, like you own Typophile because you've
    got the most posts. And ha ha, yes we Anglos are always so concerned about keeping
    a stiff upper lip, and you're using anglo-speak as a sarcastic jibe. Witty, I
    have to admit, but I could do without the racial stereotyping, thank you very
    much.\r\n\r\n>converting Eunoia to a text face\r\n\r\nOK."
  created: '2005-06-24 20:20:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You stated that all typefaces are derivative \u2014 perhaps you would have
    notice my engagement\r\n\r\nNo, I did notice, and I also noticed that you over-simplified
    <strong>again</strong>, except this time you did it to <strong>my</strong> thoughts!
    And it wasn't the only time, and you aren't the only person who does it; this
    thread is littered with words put in my mouth, because that serves [some of] you
    better.\r\n\r\n> I have been attempting to establish the idea that there are different
    kinds of revival\r\n\r\nWith which I've already agreed - did <strong>you</strong>
    notice <strong>that</strong>? It's so damn abvious anyway. What I'm intersted
    in seeing is you and Jonathan debate the [de]merits of revivals. But I'm not holding
    my breath.\r\n\r\n> The important thing is to never describe someone\r\n> who
    does a revival as the designer of that typeface. \r\n\r\nAnother over-simplification.\r\nEverything
    is in cute little boxes.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m not quite sure what that means.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem is, you don't <strong>want</strong> to know what that means. In your mind,
    you have already \"arrived\". It's just a shame your landfall is so far off the
    mark.\r\n\r\n> you don\u2019t support with an argument\r\n\r\nMaybe if were to
    look beyond the heady existentialism of Peter's article in Typo 13... Or are you
    talking about empiricism? That can't be, because you discount Kevin's work too.
    But this is all entirely understandable for somebody who has stopped growing.\r\n\r\n>
    you\u2019re using anglo-speak as a sarcastic jibe\r\n\r\nNo, I took that straight
    from something you wrote. And I certainly don't own Typophile. Yes, I can be bossy,
    but my upbringing has taught me that being whiny is worse. That's just me though.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-24 21:13:32'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>>converting Eunoia to a text face\r\n\r\nOK.</em>\r\n\r\nYAY! I can't
    wait. This should prove to be very interesting.\r\n\r\n<em>So what term would
    you attribute to those who make their living primarily by reviving or updating
    previous typefaces?</em>\r\n\r\ni often refer to myself as \"bezier wrangler\"--just
    a bit more glamorous than \"shoppingcart cowboy.\"\r\n\r\n<em>> The important
    thing is to never describe someone\r\n> who does a revival as the designer of
    that typeface.\r\n\r\nAnother over-simplification.</em>\r\n\r\ni'm afraid i hafta
    agree with hrant here. i mean true, i didn't design Goudy's Californian... but
    what if <em>I design</em> cyrillic characters to compliment the design. Then am
    i a designer? How many original glyphs must i design before i can make that leap?
    can I if it's just a handful--say the german eszett, a copyright symbol, &c.--is
    that enough? "
  created: '2005-06-24 21:33:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">in your mind, you have already \u201Carrived\u201D\r\n\r\nNot only are you
    a bossy internet bully, you are an amateur psychologist.\r\nPLEASE stop telling
    people where their head is at.\r\n\r\n>being whiny is worse.\r\n\r\nI'm not going
    to be out-pissed by you. \r\nI WILL get the last word.\r\nNow you stop YOUR whining,
    you hear?! \r\n\r\n>How many original glyphs must i design before i can make that
    leap? \r\n\r\nNo, you tell me.\r\nI give up. I'm converted.\r\nEvery typeface
    is a revival.\r\nAnyone who works on a font is a type designer.\r\nAnyone who
    buys a font can modify it if they want to, even if the EULA says they can't.\r\n\r\nNow,
    on to the challenge.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-25 00:57:32'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Okay, that's it...the final straw, the camel's back is broken. Hrant hrules,
    so we can all now play by Hrant hrules; no more Mr. Nice Guy here.\r\n\r\nMy dear
    long-suffering, long-victimized, not-always-right-but-never-wrong, champion-of-the-underdog-and-the-horse-he-rode-in-on
    Armenian friend: Revivalists exist for the same reason that translators exist\u2013they
    re-create, <strong>with full homage and recognition of the original creators</strong>,
    something in a <em>new</em> context or medium which did not exist there before.
    The <em>Iliad</em> and <em>Odyssey</em> were written in ancient Greek; the <em>Aeineid</em>
    in Latin; the Bible in ancient Hebrew, Greek and; <em>The Brothers Karamazov</em>
    in Russian, and so on and so on. The vast majority of readers of English (or ANY
    language other that the original) would never know the wonders and the powers
    of these works had not TRANSLATORS re-created the original works that new audiences
    could read and understand. So, to your way of thinking, are these men (and women)
    hacks and whores because they didn't create anything new?\r\n\r\nRevivalists of
    old typefaces take works which formerly existed only as cast slugs of metal or
    sketches on a printed page and make them available to a world of digital users.
    The best (that is, the most ethical) of these revivalists fully credit the original
    creators; theirs is not a work of piracy, of mindless repetition and redundancy,
    but of love\u2013a love of letterforms, and a wish to perpetuate the best of what
    came before by making it available to a wider audience. Forget what I said earlier
    about your being an intelligent person: if you cannot understand this simple,
    basic concept (Hrant hrules: utterly beside-the-point <em>ad hominem</em> arguments
    allowed), you are a moron."
  created: '2005-06-25 01:15:46'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Sorry, spellcheck failure;..that should be <em>The Aeneid</em>; one too many
    eyes (unlike Cyclops, who had one too few).
  created: '2005-06-25 01:39:06'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>No, you tell me.\r\nI give up. I\u2019m converted...</em>\r\n\r\nnow
    <em>THAT</em> was unexpected. i doubt yer converted (and i'm glad you're not)
    my questions were more rhetorical so as to explore there gray area in between
    \"Polishing up someone else\u2019s design...is not design\" and \"Anyone who works
    on a font is a type designer.\" I have yet to complete a purely original design,
    but there are some in me somewhere. if i weren't being a production artist all
    day at work, i might design some original stuff at home, but you can only wrangle
    beziers for so many hours each day..."
  created: '2005-06-25 02:12:24'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Nick C., unless I missed something, I don't think Hrant ever really questioned
    the merits of reviving typefaces. Was your comment directed at someone else, or
    was that a general statement for all thread participants?
  created: '2005-06-25 02:50:48'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I do not like to think of laws having more importance than ethics. Too often
    laws contradict ethics. Typophile is a good place to advertise one's personal
    code of ethics in designing, or modding, or reviving type. Many come here for
    just such guidance. I do not expect much agreement. Still, I'm surprised how hot
    the dialog has become. Nick, please don't make a text version of Eunoia. Think
    of the awful boumas!\r\n\r\n\"and making little machines that leverage notan to
    create good boumas\"\r\n\r\nIt's almost like nanotechnology! Ha! Ha! \r\n\r\nHrant,
    does achieving this preclude style or expression? Is there only one way to achieve
    it? Also, is there an empirical way to decide what a \"good bouma\" is? Do you
    have examples? I would think typographic context would be a qualifier in each
    example. "
  created: '2005-06-25 03:51:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">if i weren\u2019t being a production artist all day at work, i might design
    some original stuff at home, but you can only wrangle beziers for so many hours
    each day\u2026\r\n\r\nI guess I was lucky then, that when I started designing
    typefaces in my spare time, my day job was different, as an art director. The
    downside of that is that it takes a long time to get any good at it, or to do
    it in a way that is acceptable to \"industry standards\", as one is self taught.
    The advantage that you have Paul is that you have a thorough professional grounding.
    Not all parts of type design depend on bezier wrangling, if you feel inclined
    to develop some original ideas, there's always good old-fashioned drawing and
    penwork. \r\n"
  created: '2005-06-25 10:44:54'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "You know Paul, I feel the same way a lot.\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-25 11:23:23'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I don't know, <em>tbiddy</em>: you tell me...\r\n\r\n<strong>hrant; Fri,
    2005-06-24 09:06:</strong> <em> And what is type design to me? At the highest
    level, it involves going beyond the surface of making pretty glyphs that look
    happy during deliberative \r\nobservation, and making little machines that leverage
    notan to create good boumas; this is something you for one have yet to do...But
    what if the designer prefers living in the past, or in his cocoon? One might in
    fact wonder (or even ask point-blank) how much of a designer such a designer is.</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it was the day from hell that I had at work on Friday, maybe it was the third
    Paulaner Salvator I had to help me forget that day, but this comment sounded like
    a shot to me.\r\n\r\nRevivalists are NEVER given their sources complete: the concept
    of a complete ASCII character set didn't exist pre-ASCII, so inevitably some characters
    have to be divined and, in order to do this seamlessly, the revivalist needs at
    least some semblance of design sense.\r\n\r\nThen, there are instances when the
    source documents are VERY incomplete: for example, the entire ASCIII character
    set for Picayune Intelligence BT was derived from just five letters (Riquet).
    Very little slavish copying and a WHOLE lot of designing was involved.\r\n\r\nSo,
    yes, I take Hrant's words as an insult (but's he's Armenian and can't help himself...is
    that written into the Armenian constitution?). Hrant may thinks that it's perfectly
    alright to belittle and dismiss whomsoever he chooses (all the while calling it
    merely \"speaking the truth\" or some other pious claptrap) in his endless quest
    for <em>alpha</em>-male dominance of these forums, but I'm pretty fed up with
    it."
  created: '2005-06-25 16:54:28'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>if you feel inclined to develop some original ideas, there\u2019s always
    good old-fashioned drawing and penwork.</em>\r\n\r\nI'll be taking the Letter
    Drawing workshop by [[Dennis Pasternak]] at [[typecon]]. I can't wait. I wish
    i could go to [[Ken Barber]]'s Brush lettering workshop as well, but the times
    overlap. I can't wait!"
  created: '2005-06-25 18:33:43'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: ">>>maybe it was the third Paulaner Salvator I had to help me forget that
    day, but this comment sounded like a shot to me.\r\n\r\nMmmmmm, Paulaner Salvator....
    Anywho...I also thought he mentioned that he was in the process of reviving a
    face as well. Feelings are feelings and it may very well have been a crack. Honesty,
    candor and insult are certainly not the same things and I'm sure a few people
    have yet to realize that.\r\n\r\nPaul, Dan...I too understand. As a freelance
    designer by day, type is something I can only work on in my free time. Unfortunately,
    after using Quark Xpress and setting type for 8 hours a day I often don't feel
    like coming home and staring at a screen longer with FontLab and Illustrator.
    (My mind says yes, but my eyes say no.)"
  created: '2005-06-25 19:43:17'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Nick recommended:\r\n\r\n<cite>... if you feel inclined to develop some original
    ideas, there\u2019s always good old-fashioned drawing and penwork.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    hope you're not suggesting that traditional media are the only faultless gateway
    to originality."
  created: '2005-06-25 23:13:34'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Silas, they are not the only faultless gateway, but they are a good one.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-26 10:22:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I hope you\u2019re not suggesting that traditional media are the only faultless
    gateway to originality.\r\n\r\nNo, I was prescribing a change of steed to alleviate
    the saddle-sores suffered by bezier-wrangling mouse-jockeys. "
  created: '2005-06-26 12:02:46'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "t...\r\n\r\nYes, Paulaner Salvator: an excellent German double bock, although\u2013truth
    be known\u2013I greatly prefer Moretti La Rossa. However, this day Paulaner enjoyed
    the immense advantage of being on sale and, to honor the memory of my dear dead
    dad (cheap bastard that he was), I went with the Paulaner.\r\n\r\nI know how difficult
    it is, after putting in your eight hours (more, usually, for me) at the day job,
    to come home and spent even more time in front of the monitor. So, add my vote
    to the paper-and-pencil advocates; at least that route allows you to exercise
    your lettersense muscles during the week, so you could tackle the monitor-and-mouse
    stuff on the weekends.\r\n\r\nYou said, <em>\"Honesty, candor and insult are certainly
    not the same things and I'm sure a few people have yet to realize that.\"</em>
    Maybe some don't grasp the distinction, but I am well aware of the differences.
    <strong>Candor</strong> is an absolute prerequisite for forums such as these:
    participants can and should express their opinions frankly and openly. However,
    opinions are opinions: personal observations of a particular subject by a particular
    person who has a particular personal history and a unique point-of-view; they
    are not irrefutable facts which can only be questioned by idiots, lackeys, peons
    or whatever the vituperation <em>du jour</em> is. To belittle, demean or dismiss
    any other participant in any way for not agreeing with <strong>your</strong> opinion
    is an <strong>insult</strong>. Are we crystal-clear so far?\r\n\r\nHonesty is
    another problem entirely. I have stated this before, and I will state it again:
    the matters with which we concern ourselves in these forums are utterly superfluous
    in the Grand Scheme of Things. If all of the typefaces in the world (except one
    simple functional one) disappeared tomorrow, would humankind suffer irreversible
    damage the same way that it would if, say, food or sunlight disappeared tomorrow?
    No: the immense visual richness of written communication afforded by the typographic
    arts would be gone, and the fortunate few among us who actually make a living
    in the field would have to find other jobs, but life <em>would</em> go on. It
    is only because of the wretched excesses of our current economic system--where
    those who have, have too much and want more--that all here are afforded the luxury
    of discussing, <em>ad infinitem</em> it would seem, the subtleties, arcana and
    minutiae of the typemaking craft. That's the simple truth; that's honesty. Maybe
    too much honesty: suddenly I feel so unnecessary...\r\n\r\nIf those among us who
    rail against the evils of the current economic system were really serious, they
    would chuck civilization and its contentments, find a community somewhere in the
    world that hasn't been corrupted by that system (if that's possible), and sit
    around the campfire and spin yarns about how the times when giants walked the
    earth: that, at least, would be authentic. However, the <em>\xFCbermenschen</em>
    among us don't take that path: they curse the teat that nourishes them, but they
    don't stop feeding off it. The kindest thing that could be said of such behavior
    is that it is disingenuous; a more sober assessment is that it is downright dishonest.
    Thus, it is my <strong>candid opinion</strong> that such people, rather than being
    the champions of the underdog they profess to be, are really little more than
    pathetic parasites. Maybe that's an <strong>insult</strong>, maybe it's just <strong>honesty</strong>:
    you decide what works for you."
  created: '2005-06-26 16:38:31'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: ">>>Thus, it is my candid opinion that such people, rather than being the
    champions of the underdog they profess to be, are really little more than pathetic
    parasites.\r\n\r\nOuch. By the way...Nick C., if you were offended by anything
    I said It certainly wasn't directed at you in particular. I was only saying that
    insulting someone is different than being candid, nothing more. I certainly didn't
    mean you when I stated that. I guess the problem with the internet is that you
    can't read \"tone\" or \"inflection.\"\r\n\r\nTo a degree I agree with you, but...I
    wouldn't go as far as calling a person a \"pathetic parasite.\" That is certainly
    a blatant insult and does little more than perpetuate the type of attitude that
    you're rallying against. Let's all rise above the name calling and just have a
    serious discussion. Opinions can clearly be stated without resorting to insult.
    And again, that comment isn't directed towards any one person..."
  created: '2005-06-26 17:13:00'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: No offense taken, t. Yes, "pathetic parasite" is a little over the top, but
    if there's a kinder, gentler way to describe <em>preying on the host that supports
    you</em>, it didn't occur to me at the moment. Nor does it now...
  created: '2005-06-26 18:07:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">If those among us who rail against the evils of the current economic system
    were really serious, they would chuck civilization and its contentments,\r\n\r\nSurely
    it's better to fix it if it's broke?"
  created: '2005-06-26 20:30:11'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nSurely, it <em>would</em> be better to fix the things that are
    broken: that particular comment was not meant as a recommendation for the general
    populace. It was directed at those among us who deem themselves estimable for
    biting the hand that feeds them to walk the walk, instead of just talking (and
    talking and talking) the talk. That's what I meant about being authentic.\r\n\r\nThe
    unfortunate thing is that the prevailing economic system is <em>so</em> broken\u2013in
    terms of fairness, in terms of the balance among the haves, the have-nots and
    the have-too-muches -- that I don't believe that anything short of a total meltdown
    is going to change things substantively. We Westerners are, on the whole, just
    too comfortable with all the goodies that the status quo provides, adn that presents
    a tremendous amount of inertia in the path of change. I'm no different: I have
    grown soft and accustomed to at least a modest version of \"the good life.\" On
    the other hand, I have never claimed to be different, to be \"smarter than the
    average peon.\""
  created: '2005-06-26 22:50:28'
date: '2005-06-15 09:03:36'
title: Modification/customization - what is the idea?

---
