---
author:
  name: hankzane
  picture: 110181
body: "Two words: original and creative. People like to throw around with them. What
  do they mean to you?\r\n\r\nWe can start with me. My internal dictonary says\r\n\u2022
  original - so old it's new\r\n\u2022 creative - random"
comments:
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "<ul>\r\n<li>original -- idiot thief</li>\r\n<li>creative -- thief savant</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm original & creative!"
  created: '2005-06-16 20:23:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "\u2022 Original - Something that *you* ( or I ) have never seen before. \r\n\u2022
    Creative - Being willing to crash & burn - an intuitive risk taker.\r\n\r\nSomething
    tells me you want to be reductionist about this though... That seems like it's
    your MO. Sergej, Can you not cite *anything* that has ever seemed creative or
    original to you? Really?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: hankzane
      picture: 110181
    body: "Eben, I don't <em>want</em> to be a reductionist in this regard, but it's
      something I have to be if I am to stand a chance of understanding the meaning
      in a million of different contexts that other people use these words in. Personally,
      I avoid using them to describe things. While we could take the discussion in
      this direction, for now I just wanted everyone to put their cards on the table.\r\n\r\nI
      don't understand why you think I can't cite anything as being creative or original.
      There are many random and seemingly new things/actions. In fact, they are everywhere.
      I just prefer not to cite them as such."
    created: '2005-06-16 21:19:14'
  created: '2005-06-16 20:24:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Norbert, how about you? All this belittling of the two words may be clever
    or witty but is it useful? ( Apart from at parties ). '
  created: '2005-06-16 20:26:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Original - the ability to see through the veil of agreed upon reality - like
    when DaVinci looked at a dragonfly and saw a flying machine, not an irritating
    insect\r\nCreative - the ability to expound on such observation - it became a
    helicopter design\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-06-16 20:46:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "original \u2014 first occurance (that you know of)\r\ncreative \u2014 spontaneous
    fusion of the seemingly unrelated into something original\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-16 20:47:48'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "There is no belittling here!\r\nLet me unveil inner meanings:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Being
    original means you weren't aware that you stole it.</li>\r\n<li>Being creative
    is being intensely aware of the theft.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nWe process then reprocess.\r\n-------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I reprocess in style!"
  created: '2005-06-16 20:48:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...All this belittling of the two words may be clever or witty but is it
    useful?\"\r\n\r\nActually, I thought Norbert was being creative :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-16 20:49:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Your right. He is. \r\n\r\nActually I basically agree. What Norbert says
    is true. It may not be the whole truth though.\r\n\r\nI have to admit I hold out
    hope that real originality is possible. It seems like I have seen it. Maybe I
    just don't know enough history. QUITE POSSIBLE. Impossible to prove either way.
    It's therefore quite a useful idea to toss around at parties. \r\n\r\nNot that
    Norbert definition isn't true too...\r\n\r\nCreativity should very probably consist
    mostly of being intensely aware of of the shoulders you stand on - but again it
    seems like a little reaching higher aught to be encouraged.\r\n\r\nOn the other
    hand, the overworship of both words in the last half of the last century should
    give rise to a certain amount of critique.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-16 21:31:30'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Eben -- joking aside, I have for several decades pondered originality and
    creativity and take it very seriously.\r\n\r\nTo me it is not understanding the
    meaning, that means I am on the outside, an observer.\r\nFor me it is to understand
    the process, that means I am on the inside, a contributor to the greater whole.\r\n\r\nTherefore,
    as a process:<ul>\r\n<li>To be original is to forget everything you know down
    to the last cell.</li>\r\nThis is how Bucky Fuller and Albert Einstein gave us
    what was never known before.\r\n<li>To be creative is to assimilate, regurgitate,
    reassimilate, then reassemble.\r\nThis is how Bethoven and Matisse contributed
    to the collective whole.</li></ul>\r\n\r\n----------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: timotheus
      picture: 109558
    body: Well put, Norbert!
    created: '2005-06-16 21:49:00'
  created: '2005-06-16 21:40:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I think one of the confusions about creativity and originality is that it
    is possible to be creative and original and boring or weak or useless. For the
    originality to be significant the problem needs to be important and the solution
    actually good, and not only original. In the arts there is a lot of misguided
    straining after originality, with weak results. Originality gives a spice of interest,
    but is by no means the only important thing.  '
  created: '2005-06-16 21:43:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nicely put Norbert & William!
  created: '2005-06-16 21:57:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> To be original is to forget everything you know down to the last cell.\r\nThis
    is how Bucky Fuller and Albert Einstein gave us what was never known before.\r\n\r\nUm,
    false. \r\n\r\nMy book 'Fields of Force' gives an account of Einstein's invention
    of Special Relativity. The most important thing is that he looked at the problems
    of physics in his day in a new way. He schooled himself in the ideas of the greatest
    physicists of his day, as well as the problem situation. He had the brains and
    discipline to find good solutions, but the most original thing was in the way
    he conceived the problem. \r\n\r\nHe by no means forgot everything. \r\n"
  created: '2005-06-16 21:58:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: What does Nick Shinn think about this? He has been pretty eloquent.
  created: '2005-06-16 21:58:47'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\nTo be creative is the ability to connect everyday life that on the surface
    appears to have no connection.\r\n\r\ne.g. Picasso - and his sculpture (ready
    made) Head of a Bull (1942) -- bicycle saddle + handlebars.\r\n\r\nPeople (or
    other artists) new about bicycle, bicycle saddle etc etc - but he was the first
    one to do it.\r\n\r\nThat is why he was Original.\r\n\r\neven you know that you
    want to be a graphic designer -- it is important to have a rounded education;
    to read not just about graphic design, but anything and everything."
  created: '2005-06-16 22:02:30'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "You are right, Eben.\r\nIt only means I need to ponder longer.\r\n\r\nFor
    our amusement:\r\n\"The secret to creativity is knowing how to hide your sources.\"
    \r\n\"The only thing that interferes with my learning is my education.\"\r\n\"Imagination
    is more important than knowledge.\"\r\n\"Reality is merely an illusion, albeit
    a very persistent one.\"\r\n\"Gravitation is not responsible for people falling
    in love.\"\r\n\r\nFrom the <em>Collected Quotes of Albert Einstein</em>\r\nCopyright:
    Kevin Harris 1995 (may be freely distributed with this acknowledgement)\r\n\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-06-16 22:15:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Norbert is your source the um ever-reliable: <a href=\"http://rescomp.stanford.edu/~cheshire/EinsteinQuotes.html\">internet</a>?\r\n\r\nI
    would be willing to bet money that the first and fourth quotes Einstein never
    said.  \r\n"
  created: '2005-06-16 22:23:24'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "<em>\u201CGravitation is not responsible for people falling in love.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI
    have my reservations about this one ..."
  created: '2005-06-16 22:29:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't find much call for originality or creativity in typography these
    days. That's probably the norm, and the new typography of the digital era, pre-Millennium,
    the exception.\r\n\r\nMy more innovative faces don't sell as well as the conservative
    ones. The\"new alphabet\" typeface Panoptica is a case in point. This is an original
    and creative design-- a monowidth unicase alphabet, drawn from scratch, in seven
    typeface genres -- that enables typographers to do new kinds of typographic layout.\r\n\r\nBut
    as Eben says, is it useful? Apparently not, people seem to be more interested
    in smooth retro styling. Fonts is a fashion business, as Phil Martin says.  \r\n\r\nWe
    call those who rework other people's typefaces \"designers\". But there's nothing
    creative or original in that, so surely it can't be design?\r\n\r\nNorbert's use
    of the term \"thief\" is, sadly, typical of the post-modern era, and the way that
    \"recontextualizing\" has so much more cred than starting from scratch, with the
    assumption that all art is theft, but that's OK, because originality isn't possible,
    or is irrelevant.\r\n\r\nParker's description of the dynamic model of creativity
    is the classic explanation by Arthur Koestler, in Act of Creation."
  created: '2005-06-16 23:03:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For me, the problem is that creativity and originality are not something
    you can consciously attempt to do.  I think you just \"do\" whatever it is you
    do (physics, type design, whatever) and if you become immersed in the problem
    you are attempting to solve in a naive way passing no judgment on your thoughts,
    that you allow the opportunity for creativity or originality. That does not mean
    you will succeed, it just means you made success a possibility rather than an
    impossibility. The worst thing a person can do is set creativity or originality
    as a goal, even as a priority.  It is better to free yourself from the burden
    of judgment and allow your thoughts to interact. While you are working, just work.
    \ Allow others to pass judgment later after you are done.  There are plenty around
    who would rather pass judgment on your work that do work of their own.  If you
    design something and get value out of the experience of doing it then it does
    not matter what others may say about it.  This is not the same as sales or business.
    \ You can do mundane stuff that sells well but is not fulfilling to you. You do
    have to pay the bills after all. Push the envelope to fuel yourself when you can
    though.  Even though Nick's Panoptica is not a big money maker for him, I will
    bet he is still glad he designed it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-17 01:02:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, you just realized now that cultural progress and capitalism are opposed?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-17 01:27:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">The worst thing a person can do is set creativity or originality as a goal\r\n\r\nI'm
    afraid I have to differ from your philosophical approach Chris. Surely one can
    have a  practical strategy for originality:\r\nWork from scratch and don't use
    \"off-the-shelf\" raw materials like stock images and bundled fonts. Mess with
    your software defaults (eg H&J settings) and avoid filter pre-sets.  To be really
    original, comission a custom typeface, or like Erik von Blokland, make your own
    design software tools.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-17 01:35:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Nick, you just realized now that cultural progress and capitalism are opposed?\r\n\r\nI
    haven't a clue what you're talking about.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-17 01:50:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Panoptica simply can't sell well because it's culturally progressive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-17 01:55:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>We call those who rework other people\u2019s typefaces \u201Cdesigners\u201D.
    But there\u2019s nothing creative or original in that, so surely it can\u2019t
    be design?</em>\r\n\r\n\"That thing that hath been, it is that which shall be;
    and that which is done is that which shall be done; and there is no new thing
    under the sun.\" Eccles. 1:9\r\n\r\neverything is composed of things that already
    exist. the genius is in how you combine the already exisiting things into something
    that feels new and fresh and exciting. that's what you did for panoptica, nick.
    the latin alphabet isn't new. monowidth fonts aren't new. unicase fonts aren't
    new. the seven genres you chose to apply to these designs aren't new. but when
    you put them all together you have something that is original and definately creative.\r\n\r\ncase
    in point: i love [[Storm Type Foundry|Storm]]'s work because everything he does
    has a little bit of his flavor in it. even his revivals are vibrant to me because
    of this."
  created: '2005-06-17 02:03:36'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "<strong>ORIGINAL</strong>\r\n<em>\"You must unlearn all that you have learned.\"</em>\r\n--
    Yoda\r\n\r\n<strong>CREATIVE</strong>\r\n<em>\"When I'm working on a problem,
    I never think about beauty. I think only how to solve the problem. But when I
    have finished, if the solution is not beautiful, I know it is wrong.</em>\" \r\n--
    R. Buckminster Fuller\r\n\r\nIf we as a community hope to contribute through original
    and creative solutions, we should use this topic to expand our concept of glyphs
    and visual language. Communicating visually through glyphs should be the core
    issue, and not, \"How can we make these OLD letters look NEW?\". \r\n\r\nVisual
    language is now ephemeral, like smoke signals or sky writing. It's there, then
    it's not. If there was ever a time for innovation, creativity and originality
    in displaying language visually, it's now. And I don't mean producing fonts for
    digital devices, I mean giving new meaning to glyphs or creating new ones. \r\n\r\n#,
    * and @ are now part of our daily language, and they were given new meaning by
    engineers. At one point in the development of writing, \"et\" became or morphed
    into \"&\", and it was a scribe or calligrapher who initiated it, thus giving
    meaning to a new glyph.\r\n\r\nMy point to you all is if we are to be original
    and creative, we better start moving up the food chain and become part of the
    decision making team. Otherwise type designers and typographers will still have
    to clean up the crap produced by others.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'll be BAAHK!"
  created: '2005-06-17 04:43:13'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/63281.html?1107299107\">\"There
    is no such thing as visual language.\"</a>\r\n--[[John Hudson]]\r\n\r\n<em>if
    you want to revisit that discussion, it is now <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/8733\">here</a>
    but some comments are missing, namely those by the thread's author, the lovely
    miss tiff.</em>"
  created: '2005-06-17 06:17:39'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "This type of question generates the kind of pointless nonsense that made
    TYPO-L a very small and irrelevant listserv. The definitions of original and creative
    are in the dictionary.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  children:
  - author:
      name: hankzane
      picture: 110181
    body: Garald, I didn't ask for definitions. I asked for people's idividual understanding.
    created: '2005-06-17 12:42:57'
  created: '2005-06-17 06:35:02'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "A comment on originality...\r\nI can't stand it when you're being critiqued
    and your client only has enough design vocabulary to point out that it reminds
    him/her of some other brand or some other thing - no matter how distant the comparison.
    It's like they can't evaluate it on their own, but only in reference to things
    they've seen... It's like calling a tostada a \"Mexican pizza\" which is insulting
    to both tostadas and pizza.\r\n\r\n(You've all heard them: the purple reminds
    them of Taco Bell, that font reminds them of Citibank, the square logo is just
    like Amex, etc. etc.)"
  created: '2005-06-17 06:49:23'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "off topic --\r\n\r\n\"...that font reminds them of Citibank\"\r\n\r\nhere's
    a little story (i don't know   if this story is accurate, too accurate or not
    but...)\r\n\r\n Citibank + Travelers  merged. They called in a designer to their
    \ new logo for the merged identities. They met  and talked for a long time.\r\n\r\n
    The designer listened to everything,and after two minutes created  the new logo
    (the red hemispheric slash).\r\n\r\n the designer gives them the bill, and....
    \r\n\r\nClient: \"This is a ridiculous amount of money to charge, it took you
    like two minutes to come up with that logo\". \r\n\r\nDesigner: \"No, it took
    two minutes plus 16  years\". \r\n\r\n=====\r\n\r\nmmmm...or maybe not off topic.
    maybe that designer is creative and original"
  created: '2005-06-17 07:09:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: " I like the new direction this thread is taking - now there is talk about
    what is important to us instead of the sheer reductionism of the initial post.\r\n\r\nThe
    only reason I gave Norbert any shit before about his witty remarks ( they were
    witty ) is that I felt that there was a hint of what Nick is talking about in
    his remarks about \u201Crecontextualizing\u201D. I felt like there was a sense
    in his quotes that all effort towards originality were folly. I see now that that
    wasn't quite what he meant but that was what I was reacting to. Sure, there is
    plenty of folly in what we do, but we have to get used to that & keep going anyway.\r\n\r\nRe-reading
    Nick's post, (Thanks Nick! Sweet post again ) Despite enjoying his ideas in gerenral,
    I found myself I feeling ambivalent about his complaint re: the current fashion
    in typeface design. As soon as Nick's Panoptica fonts become fashionable he'll
    have no reason to lament. And if his ideas, in the form of that font family, are
    going to gain cultural currency it seems like it would happen as a result of the
    whim of fashion first & then maybe general acceptance later. \r\n\r\nThis is a
    process that is a wonderful if quite fickle mistress. Sorry about the gender inapproprate
    anology... Still, this process widens our culture. \r\n\r\nAnd it is here because
    of a capitalistic, and often ignorant or naive urge towards novelty. I don't really
    think it could work any other way. Not if a broad range of type is something you
    value. Emigre's original early 90's fonts might well not rate too highly if they
    released their stuff now. Our jaded eyes would move on - fair or no. And I do
    think it wouyld be unfair. I think we were lucky to have them show up when they
    did. But fashion/timing/luck has alot to do with their now iconic status.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand having a grounding in the art, science & craft of an artistic discipline
    is what gives art it's depth. I don't think this part is not responsive to capitalism
    - it requires a comitment from the artist which makes no capitalistic sense whatsoever.
    \r\n\r\nAnd I think we need both.\r\n\r\nAs far as the debate between Nick & Chris
    about how Creativity & Originality are to be realized I think it's different for
    different people. Also, IF it happens to a person at all, the personal experience
    - and therefore they way they describe it - will be diffrent for diffrerent people
    too. And it will be much more likeley to happen to somebody who is steeped in
    the discipline for some time. Then if they choose to say 'the education got in
    my way' or ' I am buiding on the achievements of my forebearers' or ' I am original'
    or 'look what I made- neat huh?' will not matter. The work will speak for itself
    .\r\n\r\nAbout Parker's commets about the 2 minute design: It puts me in mind
    of a story I read in Eye magazine years ago about a desiner who was musing about
    what to do with a client who they had advised to keep the logo they had. After
    all, he had saved them alot of money,time and kept brand continuity!"
  created: '2005-06-17 09:03:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">it took two minutes plus 16 years\r\n\r\nThe designer was Paula Scher, keynote
    speaker at this year's TypeCon.\r\n\r\nThe \"2 minutes\" anecdote is, I regret
    to inform you, neither creative nor original, and derives from the Ruskin-Whistler
    libel case of 1878.\r\n\r\n\r\n>nothing new under the sun\r\n\r\nThere is. It's
    called an emergent phenomenon. \r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emergence\r\n\r\nSergej,
    here's what they mean to me:\r\n\r\n\u2022 original - constructed from principle,
    not imitation or copied forms.\r\n\u2022 creative - emergent \r\n\r\nIn design,
    there is a clear distinction between copying (drawing) something by hand and eye,
    which makes an original work, and tracing or cut-and-paste, which does not, although
    it may be creative.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-17 10:45:38'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "David Bowie's take on appropriation etcetera:\r\n\r\n\"It's hard enough to
    be clever, you don't have to be original.\""
  created: '2005-06-17 11:56:49'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Problem solving not originality should be the aim of a designer, so I suppose
    original is not a target, more a happy circumstance. Creative is more the process
    of taking raw data and understanding it and improving on it.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-06-17 14:38:28'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "original = meaningless term that clients toss out due to a lack of any strategic
    insight into their actual business problem and project goals.\r\n\r\ncreative
    = meaningless term that clients toss out due to a lack of any strategic insight
    into their actual business problem and project goals."
  created: '2005-06-17 15:40:12'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "It seems odd to me that because the words exist we assume there is something
    behind them.\r\n\r\nThat we create without having first worked out a lingual support
    structure to validate our impulse would be original?  To create after having worked
    through the problem in internal dialogue is creative?\r\n\r\nI tend to respond
    to art strongly when I can\u2019t get on top of it through language. This has
    to do with my personal mental dexterity or lack of. I wouldn't fool myself into
    believing that my perception has any validity in relation to the object.\r\n\r\nIf
    I hear someone call this or that execution creative or original, this tells me
    something about the person making the projection, but not much about the object.\r\n\r\nI
    think Tim is pointing in the right direction when he uses the word process."
  created: '2005-06-17 15:47:36'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "This is great!\r\n\r\nIn less than 24 hours from Sergej's original post there
    have been nearly 40 replies and over 400 reads, and the majority of responses
    have been exploratory with depth of content.\r\n\r\nIt shows that we truly care
    about what we do.\r\n\r\n---------------------------------------\r\nYes, I'm old,
    but I'm an original copy!"
  created: '2005-06-17 16:07:08'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: "original = a semiotic impossibilty\r\ncreative = an attempt to disprove the
    above reality"
  created: '2005-06-19 07:30:48'
- author:
    name: kadavy
    picture: 110761
  body: "I feel like to be creative, you have to look at something in a way nobody
    has before.\r\n\r\nTo be original, you inject yourself, your own personality into
    it.\r\n\r\nSo I guess they're the same thing.\r\n\r\nYet by trying to analyze
    the word \"creative,\" we can be creative, which makes this discussion much like
    a dog chasing its own tail.\r\n\r\n------\r\nI know David Kadavy.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.kadavy.net\"
    target=\"_blank\">www.kadavy.net</a>"
  created: '2005-06-19 21:50:31'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: "John Maeda on creativity and originality:\r\nhttp://weblogs.media.mit.edu/SIMPLICITY/archives/000233.html\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 14:13:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "On the other hand, when Klimis Mastoridis invited Maeda to speak at the Thessaloniki
    conference in 2004, he said he's \"no longer interested in typography\". I guess
    it's not creative and original enough.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 17:07:51'
- author:
    name: jay
    picture: 110472
  body: "I finally watched \"What the Bleep do We Know\" over the weekend, and the
    movie included a story about Columbus arriving in the New World. The story claimed
    that the natives couldn't see Columbus' ships; the ships were so far outside the
    life-experience of the natives they were simply unable to accept them, therefore
    their brains refused to process the visual input.\r\n\r\nWhether this story is
    true or not, we've all seen pictures of people in Indonesia staring at the tsunami
    in disbelief, unable to react because they didn't have a reference for a 10-meter
    wave hitting the beach without warning on a beautiful day.\r\n\r\nI think a more
    mild version of this phenomenon happens all the time: if something is too different,
    a vast majority of people will simply block it out and move on, without consious
    thought (Douglas Adams made fun of this phenomenon with his \"SEP\"-invisibility
    field: make something look impossible, then surround it with a \"Someone Else's
    Problem\" field, and people will completely ignore it.)\r\n\r\nAs designers, we
    are constrained by this tendency in people. If we design something too radically
    different from what has gone before, our clients will reject the design (and rightly
    so, because the target audience won't accept it, either). So the design has to
    be mostly ... used, I guess is a good term ... but just a little original so people
    will notice it.\r\n\r\n(Yes, I am talking about design for commission. Design
    for the sake of design is art, and a totally different issue.)\r\n\r\nThe good
    news about used design is that people know what it means. If we move from visual
    to verbal, imagine what would happen if we all started creating \"original\" words.\r\n\r\nHave
    a Phlendal Day!\r\n\r\nJay\r\n\r\n(now I have to go google \"phlendal\" and make
    sure it doesn't exist.)\r\n\r\n(Come to think of it, \"google\" is an interesting
    example. It was a corruption of \"googol\", but now means something completly
    different. Was that originality? Or creative?)\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 18:08:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jay, good points.\r\n\r\n> unable to react because they didn\u2019t have
    a reference\r\n\r\nThe really ancient tribes on Nicobar however immediately ran
    for the hills as soon as the earthquake shocks hit, even though none of them had
    ever experienced a tsunami... How? Folk knowledge; passed down orally no less
    - and to think some Westerners claim writing is at the heart of civilization.
    I spew water in their general direction.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 18:23:18'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: So, Hrant, how long are you going to beat around the bush? Will we ever hear
    your own proposition? You are partially to blame for this thread, after all. *points
    fingers*
  created: '2005-06-20 22:46:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, what did I do? I've just been taking sideways jabs...  :-)\r\n\r\nWell,
    OK, let me ask: Are we trying to nail down terminology? Because I hate that. Or
    are we trying to figure out how creative/original a type designer can/should be?
    Or something else? Or all of the above?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-20 22:56:26'
- author:
    name: printninja
  body: "Well, you can create without being original, but can you be original without
    creating? \r\n\r\nBut really, is anything original?  Aren't we, as artistic humans,
    merely making new combinations of the things we are exposed to with our limited
    senses?  Was the first airplane original, or was it just a creation of things
    which already existed (a bird image, wood, an engine.)  \r\n\r\nFor that matter,
    do we create, or do we combine?  Isn't every new \"creation\" just a new way of
    combining things that already exist?  Isn't glass just silica combined in a different
    way?  How about a true creation... a child?  Is a child an original creation,
    or just a copy of existing DNA, combined in a new way?\r\n\r\nIs life in an original
    concept, or was it just stolen from somewhere else?"
  created: '2005-06-21 01:20:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nice post Jay. \r\n\r\nI would like to suggest a way to extend the thread
    - What work do you find creative? What work original? What is the best part of
    this work? Was it just that it held your attention - or something else?"
  created: '2005-06-21 07:18:05'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Original and Creative\r\nMiles Davis - Kind of Blue\r\nThe sound of New York
    City in a special moment in time.\r\nLi Po\r\nA wanton drunkard who supposedly
    drowned while chasing his reflection in a lake. Some of the most beautiful poetry
    of the Tang dynasty, one of the richest cultural periods this planet has experienced.\r\nShinkichi
    Takahashi - Triumph of the Sparrow\r\nA dadaist turned zen monk whose poetry is
    impenetrable, yet full of meaning.\r\nTuvan throat singing\r\nThe sound of harmonics
    emanating from nomads on the steppes of Asia.\r\n\r\nNow that I'm making a list
    I feel like an idiot but I could go on and on\u2026\r\n\r\nOriginal and Creative
    - are these not ideals that we aspire to? Like love - something that is never
    completely realized due to the frailty of our constitutions but a dream to send
    us into the good night. There are concepts that are never achieved on a pure level
    that are still important to humans as guideposts. I believe that these two words
    fit into that category.\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-06-22 00:44:29'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Original = from a classic to another classic, with some sex and romance.\r\nCreative
    = I used to say of women.\r\n\r\nRegarrds,\r\nAS"
  created: '2005-12-21 12:00:52'
date: '2005-06-16 19:46:42'
title: 'Two words: original and creative'

---
