---
author:
  name: barnstormer
body: "I am struggling to refine the logo for my website design business. I've lived
  with my 'zen biplane' for 1-1/2 years and feel the design needs some serious refinement.
  It does not translate well in black/white, looks like a flying insect when it's
  very small, and just seems overall weak to me. (Odd thing - people have offered
  positive comments when they see my business card.)\r\n\r\nAlthough I've developed
  some pretty good logos for clients, I'm struggling with my own design. Too close
  to it perhaps? I recognize that I'm a far better web designer than I am a graphic
  artist!\r\n\r\nI'd like to depict the biplane (thus the 'Barnstormer') without appearing
  cartoon-like. I'm also working with a sky/clouds theme for my website. I'm not locked
  into the red/black necessarily.\r\n\r\nHere's a link to my current logo and business
  card:\r\n{link removed}\r\n\r\nI look forward to your expert advice and critique!\r\n\r\ndeborah"
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "Deb the first thing that struck me was I couldn't figure out how barnstorming
    had anything to do with web site design. \r\n\r\nWhy not use a stock photo of
    a real plane.\r\n\r\nI'm not in love with the BARNSTORMING type its way to large,
    and the enlarged B and G make it look unbalanced as the thicks and thins also
    increased making them look heavy.\r\n\r\nYour contact information on your card
    is to small.\r\n\r\n "
  children:
  - author:
      name: barnstormer
    body: "Dan, Thank you very much for your comments.\r\n\r\nI've considered the
      stock photo route, however I've not been able to find an appropriate biplane
      photo.\r\n\r\nI agree that the font is not right. I've struggled to find something
      appropriate and am open to suggestions from forum members.\r\n\r\nThe contact
      info at 100% is 9pt Times. (The web sample is shown slightly reduced.) Perhaps
      10pt would be better?\r\n\r\nAnother approach I considered was to remove the
      plane and use a modified type logo for the name against a full color blue sky/wht
      cloud photo background. For blk/wht reproduction, I'd supply just the name,
      but on my web and business card, include the clouds.\r\n\r\nThe business name
      works well for me. In my marketing materials and when meeting with a prospect
      for the first time, I explain the connection between barnstorming and my design
      philosophy. My prospects and clients seem to like the story behind this connection
      and easily remember the \"barnstormer\" portion of the name.\r\n\r\nI feel like
      I'm back to square one.... but sometimes it's easier to start over than to fix
      the unfixable. Thanks again."
    created: '2005-06-20 14:28:08'
  created: '2005-06-20 11:10:06'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Deborah,\r\n\r\nWhat image are you trying to portray in your redesign? I
    like the Barnstormer idea in general, but I'm not sure what the 'zen biplane'
    isn't giving you that you'd like to get from the new logo. Personally, I'd push
    for an engraved or silkscreened feel for the graphics, not knowing any specifics.
    Also, the biplane coming at someone head-on is a very strong implied statement,
    but may not read as well as a 3/4 view (something like <a href=\"http://www.ohtm.org/stearman.html\">this</a>).
    Have you considered creating a small vignetted image (something like <a href=\"http://www.realflight.com/gallery/ultimate-2.jpg\">this</a>,
    but framed in an oval), since a barnstormer flies daringly close to the earth?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    as an aside, <a href=\"http://www.publispain.com/super-posters/LimitedEditions-WilburWrightBiplaneatKittyHawk.htm\">This
    image of Kitty Hawk</a> is just really great."
  children:
  - author:
      name: barnstormer
    body: "crugen,\r\n\r\nThank you for your comments and the links.\r\n\r\nThe image
      I'm trying to portray:\r\nInspiration, creativity, precision - not too feminine,
      too masculine, cutesy, or corporate.\r\n\r\nThe Stearman (great photo you found!)
      is the plane I'm connected with. You're right, working with the 3/4 view is
      tricky - I've tried.\r\n\r\nI very much like the vignette idea where I have
      full color available, but I'm thinking the engraved or silkscreened design would
      be more versatile for reproduction black/white.\r\n\r\nYou've given me some
      great new direction. Thanks again!"
    created: '2005-06-20 15:18:55'
  created: '2005-06-20 14:26:39'
- author:
    name: Fredrik
    picture: 110755
  body: "I like the idea of removing the obvious object, the craft, and focusing on
    the action.\r\n(Perhaps use a photo of a sky with some ground, then add a zoom
    effect - as if you were in the plane, diving.) Then the relation image to name
    becomes more evocative, dynamic.\r\nDevelop the name - typeface - to be your main
    graphic device, and use clever imagery to create a kind of narrative space.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: barnstormer
    body: "Fredrik,\r\nThe motion is a wonderful idea! I'll consider some Flash animation
      for my website banner once I've developed the type design. Could work very well,
      if done right.\r\n\r\nThanks for the feedback!"
    created: '2005-06-20 15:26:39'
  created: '2005-06-20 14:45:44'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I think you might find the cost of using some stock photography prohibitive
    if you do find one makes sure it's royalty free. If you were to lose the plane
    you could go for the look of spelt out lettering in smoke, try a script like this
    http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontmesa/american-pop/one/ you might find this one
    too 'coke' but to me a swashy script can give an aerobatic feel, I would avoid
    putting text on a curved line too.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-06-20 15:09:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: I look forward to seeing where you take it.
  created: '2005-06-20 15:36:33'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Deb, depending on your typeface choice your contact information could stay
    9pt. Just make sure its clear and clean, hey, you want them to contact you. For
    the barnstormer name maybe a face that reflects the era of the barnstormers. A
    google search should help in that reguard. Have fun!
  created: '2005-06-20 16:03:08'
- author:
    name: BartvanderGriendt
    picture: 109896
  body: "Hey there Deborah!\r\n\r\nSome thoughts on the type to go with the imagery.
    If you decide to make the 'painted' plane the main focus, I think you should choose
    a less ornamented, more neutral sans serif typeface. Visually the painted plane
    is quite dominant, and with this ornamental serifed face the name competes with
    the image.\r\n\r\nIf, on the other hand, you think the name of the company is
    the main focus, I'd play down on the symbol. Use a less intense color combination,
    or just use a subtler style.\r\n\r\nIn general I think the business cards desperately
    need some air. Try not to fill every space, in stead play around with a subtle
    composition using lots of whitespace. If you use a plane as an image, i think
    it is better to give it some room to fly. :-)\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nMy
    work is a game. A very serious game [M.C. Escher]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: barnstormer
    body: "Bart,\r\nI think initially (1-1/2 years ago), I was going for a slightly
      nostaligic feel with the typeface. However, upon reading your comments, I agree
      that there is some serious competition going on between the design element and
      the text. I'll explore some sans serif options.\r\n\r\nAlthough I've been referred
      to by those I know as the \"queen of whitespace\", I did not use this same philosophy
      at the time I designed my own business card.\r\n\r\nI'll give my plane (if I
      choose to use one) some air and let her fly!\r\n\r\nThanks much for your comments.\r\nDeborah"
    created: '2005-06-21 22:54:22'
  created: '2005-06-21 09:45:25'
- author:
    name: BartvanderGriendt
    picture: 109896
  body: "Hey Deborah,\r\n\r\nQueen of whitespace... now there's a great title. :-)\r\n\r\nBart\r\n\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nMy
    work is a game. A very serious game [M.C. Escher]"
  created: '2005-06-23 07:16:11'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Did anyone else notice the default illustrator brush strokes? Do 2 brush strokes
    by hand, scan them in, after you find the appropriate 2, and place those. Outside
    of improving the type, lose the tagline. Taglines are for mattress outlets and
    fast food joints. Lose the fake small caps as well. Sorry I'm a little blunt.
    All in good fun!
  children:
  - author:
      name: barnstormer
    body: "Eric, Good observation about the default Illustrator brushes. I'll break
      out the paint brushes and give your suggestion a try.\r\n\r\nAs for taglines,
      I hold firm on the need for one. I'm not saying my tagline is the best thing
      around, but I struggle to think of a successful corporation today that doesn't
      utilize a tagline (or didn't use one previously get where they are now). In
      the age of brandable \"coined\" names, without a tagline we wouldn't have a
      clue what the company is about. Just imagine hearing a PBS sponsorship listing
      without the corresponding taglines.\r\n\r\nPoint noted on the small caps. Thanks.
      I welcome bluntless and appreciate your comments.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2005-06-24 02:26:49'
  created: '2005-06-23 19:57:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I live in Alaska & the romance of air travel is very much alive here. I have
    seen lots of old biplanes and the type used with these is a really blocky type.
    I wonder if a rich compelling romantic old fashionedness might not help underscore
    the name as well as giving confidence that you can handle complex design interaction.
    \r\n\r\nOn the other hand a cloud theme or a smoke stream could be good too.\r\n\r\nI
    guess my main idea was just that there is a lot of graphic richness in aircraft
    hisrory that could be mined."
  created: '2005-06-23 20:02:22'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "I agree with using taglines as business positioning. Without a tagline someone
    could think you had a flight school or were a wedding phototographer. \r\n\r\nDo
    you know about the Inverted Jenny?"
  created: '2005-06-24 12:36:32'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Deborah,\r\n\r\nAfter your explanation for the need of a tagline, I was a
    little less resistant to the idea, and I understand what dan is staying. But as
    it stands, no one could possible think 'flight school or wedding photog\" Because
    A. Context /' heres my card' / 'heres the card of a designer i know.'\r\nB. Information
    \" You have all of your  services listed on the card \" \r\n\r\nI was just making
    a point to dan. Now, Part 2 ...\r\n\r\n1. General electric - \"imagination at
    work\"\r\n2. P&G - \"touching lives, improving life\"\r\n3. Pentagram - None\r\n\r\nYou
    see, maybe I'm not so adverse to a tagline, just maybe it could be better tho.
    Little too specific to the bi-plane. Too obvious. Maybe I can make some suggestions,
    or dan?. Have to think a little while.\r\n\r\nEric"
  created: '2005-06-24 14:03:23'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "<em>Without a tagline someone could think you had a flight school or were
    a wedding phototographer.</em>\r\n\r\nI suppose, but rarely do you use a logo
    as your single marketing device completely sans context. \r\n\r\nBut, yea, taglines
    can be good if that add a bit of clarity to your message.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-24 14:55:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I bet it would not need a tag line if the words design group were prominent
    enough. Still, if you are going to go on the radio to advertise then having a
    tagline to use would not hurt. Even then though, you may not need it on your card.\r\n\r\nI
    always prefer to use as simple a solution as possible though. What market do you
    serve? Local culture is an important factor too."
  created: '2005-06-24 17:00:04'
- author:
    name: barnstormer
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nYour thought about incorporating the romanticism and nostaligia
    of the biplane into the design has me thinking... :-)\r\n\r\nDeborah\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-24 17:42:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "If you want some examples I can dig some up. I was mostly thinking that the
    less litteral approach might be richer & more romantic/evocative. The thing about
    the old biplanes - or monoplanes was that they had an ink on paper letters & aviator's
    silk scarf side - soft & expressive, as well as a block letter & grease side -
    tough & pragmatic, all held together with purpose & wire. \r\n\r\nIf you were
    the son or daughter of one of these pilots, you might have something from him
    that would evoke the whole experience for you - even if it was a pen ( not a great
    example but let that go). And that suggestion or abstract element might be more
    reasonant than the literal aircraft.\r\n\r\nI wonder if a card could be made in
    the shape of a propeller - maybe it folds. Then you could have info on one side
    & have a propeller image on the other. Maybe not too. But thats the kind of more
    abstract kind of thing I was thinking of. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-25 18:01:23'
- author:
    name: BartvanderGriendt
    picture: 109896
  body: "If Ebens suggestions about the biplane type strike a chord, I think you need
    to listen to it. It probably says something about what <em>you</em> feel about
    your business - something that gets easily drowned in customer focussed design.\r\n\r\nI
    agree with Eben that the association of planes might work better than the actual
    plane. I wonder if the airplane-type Eben mentions is recognisable enough to Deborah's
    customers. Not all people live in Alaska, off course. \r\n\r\nBut then again,
    it might be the creative knightmove that elevates your design to a more interesting
    level.\r\n\r\nFly on.\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nMy
    work is a game. A very serious game [M.C. Escher]"
  created: '2005-06-27 22:54:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Just to clarify - It isn't really an *alaskan* kind of plane I am thinking
    of or an alaskan kind of font/type - it's more that there are alot of small planes
    here ( few roads ) and alot of old planes - so I see them a lot. Also there is
    alot of romantic feeling about aircraft here.
  created: '2005-06-27 23:04:49'
- author:
    name: BartvanderGriendt
    picture: 109896
  body: "I understand, Eben - I was just thinking about the recognisability (is that
    a word? excuse my English) of airplane type. And by the way - this got me interested
    - do you know of any online imagery of this kind of lettering?\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nMy
    work is a game. A very serious game [M.C. Escher]"
  created: '2005-06-30 07:42:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I guess I mean something like this\r\n\r\nhttp://hans.presto.tripod.com/fonts/usaaf.html\r\n\r\nor
    in context - this\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fiddlersgreen.net/AC/aircraft/Curtiss-MailJenny/info/info.htm\r\n\r\nThere
    are also nice scripts & so on...\r\n\r\nReally the thing I meant was to go look
    at lots of books. The internet is good but it is no replacement for a good library!"
  created: '2005-06-30 09:33:42'
- author:
    name: BartvanderGriendt
    picture: 109896
  body: "Thanks for the images, Eben - and I do think this kind of type evokes the
    right feeling. Even if not instantly recognisable as airplane-type. \r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nMy
    work is a game. A very serious game [M.C. Escher]"
  created: '2005-07-04 12:25:07'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: I really like the curves of the <a href="http://www.fiddlersgreen.net/AC/aircraft/Curtiss-MailJenny/info/prop.jpg">propeller</a>
    in Eben's second link. What a beautiful shape, particularly the arabesque running
    through from one blade to the other.
  created: '2005-07-05 20:13:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Crugen, is that a pilot's helmet on your icon?
  created: '2005-07-05 20:46:49'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Yes...I'm pretty certain it is. It's a fictional comic character named <a
    href=\"http://www.starstore.com/acatalog/Hellboy-comic-figures-l.jpg\">Lobster
    Johnson</a> from <em>Hellboy</em> whose main hobby was fighting evil (usually
    Nazis, since it was the early 40's).\r\n\r\nHis character is a tongue-in-cheek
    treatment of golden-age superheroes, but Mignola pulls it off and actually imbues
    his character with a fair degree of <em>gravitas</em> while his adventures are
    often humorous in certain aspects.\r\n\r\n\"<em>All right then. Come and taste
    the Lobster's Claw!</em>\"\r\n\u2013Lobster Johnson, <em>Hellboy: Conqueror Worm</em>"
  created: '2005-07-05 21:36:22'
- author:
    name: barnstormer
  body: "Thanks to everyone here who provided me with such helpful advice.\r\n\r\nDespite
    my attachment to what the biplane symbolizes for me, I found it too difficult
    (for me) to incorporate the romanticism of flight into the design. For awhile,
    I was trying to work with the propeller idea because I too like the curved lines.
    Ultimately, I feel a professionally illustrated logo would be the way to go. I
    am not an illustrator, therefore...\r\n\r\nI went a new direction and have completely
    redesigned the logo without a plane. I think the new logo looks more professional
    and more representative of a web design business.\r\n\r\n{link removed}\r\n\r\nYour
    thoughts on the new design would be much appreciated.\r\nDeborah"
  created: '2005-07-08 12:40:36'
- author:
    name: Yaw Tetteh
  body: "hi Deby \r\n     It is great thing to be a webdesigner. About I think the
    best logs should be self explanatory. I guess a logo that has to do with the brain
    , somthing that will show people about your web design stuff and something that
    would draw people closer to you. your first logo is nice but it does'nt tell people
    you are a web designer. You can do it girl so go ahead and do ti.. "
  created: '2005-07-08 13:51:38'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I think your new logo design sacrifices personality and uniqueness for obviousness.
    That's a trade-off you need to weigh in resepect to your own goals/needs (will
    that prevent you from getting a client?), but I think the barnstormer/biplane
    idea is still better. There are a million and one web design companies out there,
    many of which use the exact same concept of the mouse arrow. Don't let yours lose
    its personality. Looking at your new/old image above, I'd still choose the original
    over the new one.\r\n\r\nThe answer might just be sharpening and simplifying the
    old brush stroked logo to give it a more modern, clean look. Maybe just <a href=\"http://images.google.com/images?q=propeller&btnG=Search&svnum=10&hl=en&lr=&safe=off&client=safari&rls=en\">GIS
    \"propeller\"</a>, pick one, and draw over it in Illustrator and add some <a href=\"plane
    wings\">plane wings</a>? Perhaps a literal plane is too restrictive. Planes are
    fast, dynamic, sleek pieces of engineering and design. Maybe a propeller shape
    with the echelon shape of a full wing-span above them is enough to meet both goals:
    show the plane part, and imply something about the company?\r\n\r\nBut, again,
    it's a matter of what you want and need from the logo for your business, not what
    I think is most interesting, so take this with a grain of salt."
  created: '2005-07-08 14:45:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Unfortunately I have to agree with Crugen. Your naqme is great & memorable.
    You aught to take full advantage of that. I think the logo could be refined from
    what you have if you lost the pointer arrow. That would simplify it. Then you
    might try additional fonts, keep trying variations on the prop X etc. \r\n\r\nWhat
    about a pair of flight goggles? They would be emblematic of the idea of looking
    & the look design & of the old era of flight. \r\n\r\nCheck out these! \r\nhttp://www.flightsuits.com/open_goggle.html\r\nThese
    are pretty sexy\r\nhttp://www.oldnautibits.com/stock_php/aviation_headgear_g.php\r\nScroll
    down a little & see the Uvex style? Wild no?\r\n\r\nAnyway you could have a photo
    of something like these laid out casually on a white background or have them Illustrated
    instead... \r\n\r\nAlso check this out\r\nhttp://pro.corbis.com/popup/Enlargement.aspx?mediauids={965ca023-c11c-4b08-a241-573df06095fa}|{ffffffff-ffff-ffff-ffff-ffffffffffff}&qsPageNo=1&fdid=&Area=Search&TotalCount=7&CurrentPos=1&WinID={965ca023-c11c-4b08-a241-573df06095fa}\r\n\r\nLong
    URL huh...\r\n\r\nAlso What if you had long hair streaming out behind the helmet
    comix style? That would be barnstormer, & femme, all at once ! I don't know if
    that's an element that is important for you to emphasize per se...\r\n\r\nAnyway.
    I want to encourage you to keep going & try more stuff. There is a TON of potential
    here."
  created: '2005-07-08 16:31:47'
date: '2005-06-19 16:50:03'
title: web design business logo

---
