---
author:
  name: vinceconnare
  picture: 110591
body: "<strong>On your marks</strong>  \r\nBy Tom Geoghegan \r\nBBC News Magazine
  \ \r\n \r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/magazine/4102728.stm"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Vince, you seem to have a knack for introducing subjects that generate a
    lot of response, whether or not the subject deserves the level of response it
    generates (I'm thinking your recent post on \"uppercase\" and \"lowercase\").
    Give me a ring. Don't touch that dial! The English language (and, most likely,
    ANY language) is filled with carryover words which may not accurately describe
    the items which they are supposed to describe, but everyone knows what they mean.
    So what's the big deal?\r\n\r\nPunctuation, like proper grammar and correct spelling,
    serves a very important purpose: to make the intent of the written word as clearly
    understandable as possible. People who write well generally use grammar properly,
    spell correctly, and punctuate accurately; unfortunately, it seems that such people
    are becoming increasingly rare.\r\n\r\nOne of the arguments the referenced article
    puts forward seems to be that, since so many people don't know the rules, it's
    time to chuck the rules. Great: in order to make the unschooled (or unmotivated
    or uncaring or whatever) feel better about their shortcomings, we should impoverish
    the language. Sorry...I don't buy it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 17:02:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What we need is <strong>more</strong> punctuation!\r\nLike floating emphasis
    and question marks that can be placed on any vowel.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 17:37:03'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Even when you type fo' shizzle, it requires an apostrophe, natch.
  created: '2005-06-21 17:51:54'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I am pretty happy with the punctuation scheme as presently constituted. That
    might be the result of familiarity. I find that Americans like to overuse commas,
    especially in lists. This seems to be a result of academia.\r\nAs a person who
    is helping to destroy American English through marketing language (Think Different
    - catchy but notoriously incorrect), I take great liberties with punctuation and
    language, with less being more the rule.\r\nOn a philosophical level I am constantly
    fighting the urge to think (as all old men do) - Things Were Better Before\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-06-21 17:59:57'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'Paul, there''s a great deal of difference between knowing the rules and intentionally
    breaking them for effect, and breaking the rules because you have no idea what
    the rules are. The former instance is called artistic license; the latter is called
    being clueless. And, fellow old man, it''s inescapable: some things <em>were</em>
    better before...but a lot of other things really sucked.'
  created: '2005-06-21 19:01:17'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "<cite>As a person who is helping to destroy American English through marketing
    language (Think Different - catchy but notoriously incorrect)</cite>\r\n\r\nMarketing
    and advertising will in no way \"destroy\" the English language. Every language
    naturally evolves over time, new words are added, archaic ones are forgotten,
    meaning shift, foreign vocabulary becomes integrated, punctuation standards change,
    etc.\r\n\r\nOxymorons, unconventional phrasing, and things of those natures are
    not \"incorrect\" usages of language\u2014 especially with advertising. Catchy
    is the point. The only way you can improperly use a language is to use the wrong
    rhetoric in the wrong situation. Think of Japanese for example, there clear levels
    of formality how you speak and write to certain people. Every language is like
    that though; in any setting there are certain things that are appropriate and
    inappropriate to say. \r\n\r\nHowever, those examples are more deeply based on
    social constructions than on language. Language and the way it is used and accepted
    has very deep roots in local cultures... \r\n\r\nAlso, there is nothing wrong
    with commas.\r\n\r\nr.k\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 19:04:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The two typical sides of the argument are too superficial. One side likes
    to break rules, the other likes the status quo, and both sides rationalize away
    to suit their personal preferences. That's not Design. Few people bother to really
    worry about how written language actually works. It is in this consideration that
    the Minimalism espoused by those who want to \"simplify\" language is flawed.
    We need richer information, not poorer.\r\n\r\nCommas: I myself use too many of
    them. They make a written piece more conversational, which can do unwarranted
    harm to immersive reading in some contexts. In that Spatium article I wrote, at
    the end I went back and -carefully- pulled out ~50 commas. So about one for each
    50 words. It became more true to its medium, hence more functional.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-21 19:12:08'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: More people <em>ought</em> to worry about how written language actually works.
  created: '2005-06-21 19:16:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I agree with rkeller. Language is flexible and fluid because it's a mode
    of expression, but writing is a system within that mode of expression. It's a
    set of practices based on common understandings which either yield rules or exist
    because of them. So, while I think change is inevitable, removing something because
    some people are too <strong>lazy</strong> or poorly educated seems foolish to
    me.\r\n\r\nThe apostrophe, in particular, is a useful signifier. I'm sure we could
    abolish the letter 'k' as well, but do we really <em>need</em> to? Some parts
    <em>add</em> flexibility and depth, even if they are part of a rule or are arguably
    extraneous. Try adding to before subtracting from language.\r\n\r\nI also dig
    the comma. I once wrote a sentence in grade school containing six commas, all
    properly used, without trying. I could tell that my english teacher wanted to
    reprimand me, but had no grounds for it. I loved that, and have used them liberally
    ever since."
  created: '2005-06-21 19:18:07'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I was merely passing on an observation that many Europeans have told me about
    the over-punctuation of American English. I happen to agree with them. Of course
    language is plastic, meant to be molded to suit the times. I don't feel guilty
    but I also feel that marketing has a destructive influence on the English language.
    So be it.\r\nHrant - i would argue that carefully constructed minimalism can be
    richer. My own tastes run to haikus and other minimalist type of poetry rather
    than the epics of this world. They feel far more open to interpretation which
    suits my artistic ideal. I want to start people thinking, that's all.\r\nI agree
    with all the comments about knowing the rules before breaking them. This is usually
    true in all fields of endeavor (although I've heard some punk rock guitarists
    who've been playing for 6 months who play things I would never think of - I've
    been playing for 37 years).\r\nAs for the apostrophe - I feel very Possessive
    about them and would like them to stay\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-06-22 00:04:33'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "<em>Think Different</em> was correct English!\r\n\r\nDifferent is used in
    the way \"combustion\" is used here: \"I'm tired of waiting for the sun to warm
    us up, Hank. Let's create fire. Think combustion.\"\r\n\r\nIt was correct English
    (and still is), but not in the way one immediately thinks of the usage of that
    phrase."
  created: '2005-06-22 00:55:21'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Paul, you're just saying that because if we threw out apostrophes your icon
    would be passe. =)
  created: '2005-06-22 00:57:46'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "The assertion that \"context makes it redundant\" boils down to demanding
    that people waste more time explaining themselves. Already, when I say \"literally,\"
    I have to stop and explain that I mean \"literally\" literally. Once upon a time
    you could just use the word and trust that people know what it means.\r\n\r\nThere's
    a pervasive attitude today of \"I can do whatever I want,\" shouting down any
    question of whether something is a good thing to do. Try to explain to people
    that \"barter\" does not mean \"haggle,\" and they'll figuratively jump at your
    throat. \"LANGUAGE CHANGES, OLD MAN! EVERYBODY KNOWS WHAT I MEAN SO SHUT UP!\"
    Yeah, fine, but then we're left without a word for barter. Language is fluid,
    but there's a lot to be said for directing the flow.\r\n\r\nThere are all kinds
    of existing ambiguities that pop up in our language and have to be talked around.
    Why add more? The apostrophe takes up almost no space; why would you want to replace
    it with words? \"The chicken broke James' fast.\" You have a pretty clear idea
    of what that means, and it only took a millimeter to clear up any confusion."
  created: '2005-06-22 04:51:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The apostrophe is an interesting piece of punctuation. Unlike the comma,
    semi-colon, etc. -- and even the exclamation mark when used grammatically --,
    the apostrophe seems almost an accidental mark. Its uses in English are the result
    of the way in which we idicate the possessive with s and our tendency to contract
    through vowel ellision. Neither of these characteristics of English are what I
    would consider fundamental aspects of language, unlike for example words, clauses
    and phrases, which are, of course, the domain of the comma, the semi-colon, etc..
    The latter are grammatical punctuation marks in the full, linguistic sense of
    the term grammar; the marks themselves are conventional, but what they indicate
    is not conventional and is common in one form or another to all human languages.*\r\n\r\nThe
    apostrophe is a conventional mark that indicates things that are not quite conventional,
    but not essentially grammatical either. There are many ways in which languages
    can indicate possession: it just so happens that, since the decline of noun casing,
    English has evolved a means of indicating possession that is helpfully indicated
    by an apostrophe -- helpfully because the method of indicating possession is all
    but identical to the method of pluralising a noun. As Kevin notes, this can result
    in ambiguities, which the apostrophe resolves. The apostrophe is similarly helpful
    in indicating contraction, although in that case the usage is more distinctly
    conventional, since contractions have no grammatical function: they are simply
    verbal laziness.\r\n\r\nThe argument that 'Language changes, so I can abuse grammar
    as much as I like' is a different form of laziness. Language does change, of course,
    or rather the conventional aspects of language change. They are fluid and they
    evolve over time. Words, for example, assume new meanings and lose old ones. But
    the essential elements of grammar change very slowly if at all and, arguably,
    once they change one no longer has the same language. Old English is not the same
    language as modern English, not because it uses different spellings and earlier
    forms of words, but because it is grammatically distinct. Old English is an inflected
    language in which word order is not very important to meaning, while modern English
    is largely uninflected and word order is absolutely essential to meaning. Inflection
    also means that Old English had no need for an apostrophe, because possession
    was indicated by the genitive case of the noun.\r\n\r\nPossession is a basic aspect
    of language, and so long as English indicates possession by adding an s to a noun,
    the apostrophe will remain useful for anyone who cares for precision and wants
    to avoid ambiguity. If someone really wants to get rid of the apostrophe, he should
    invent a new way of indicating possession. Personally, I'm all in favour of a
    return of the genitive case. :)\r\n\r\n_\r\n\r\n* It is worth noting that not
    all writing systems mark all aspects of grammar equally. The most important punctuation
    in English is not a mark at all, it is the space between words, but some writing
    systems do not indicate word breaks at all: in these, the phrase is the smallest
    <em>visually</em> distinct element. Yet the concept of the word is common to all
    languages, as far as I know, and the ways in which words relate to each other
    morphologically is quite limited across the many thousands of human languages.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 05:59:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks John!
  created: '2005-06-22 07:08:25'
- author:
    name: mica
    picture: 110163
  body: Clearly Paul's icon is an alembic :)
  created: '2005-06-22 07:15:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In Canada, Tim Hortons (donut restaurant chain named after hockey star) dropped
    its apostrophe, to comply with French language laws in the province of Quebec.\r\n\r\nTo
    change the subject slightly, SmartyPants has a problem with 'postrophes, eh?"
  created: '2005-06-22 11:26:30'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "\"Imagine no possessions... it's easy if you try.\"\r\n\r\n(I was watching
    the John Lennon documentary last night.)\r\n\r\nThe \"Tim Hortons\" case is particularly
    intriguing.  Which language holds sway over the rules of another?  Could this
    be a more deeply rooted cultural divide?  We Americans looooove possessions.  It's
    the basis of our economy and lifestyle.\r\n\r\nI for one will keep my apostrophes
    regardless of undecided placement and insignificant redundancy.  Language is written
    to resolve ambiguity, not add to it.  Poetry aside, precision is the purpose of
    punctuation.  Leaving clarity in the trust of context is to shadowbox with your
    audience.\r\n\r\nWe may not need MORE punctuation.  Pehaps we could stand to make
    better use of those marks we already have in rotation."
  created: '2005-06-22 17:39:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "From the article at the top:\r\n\r\n\"We have to learn the distinction between
    speech and writing...\" - Tom Daydon \r\n\r\nThere is a tendency to write as we
    speak particularly in email or blogs. But I think alot of the richness of language
    ( well english actually ) occurs in the difference between speech & writing. I
    think the apostrophe is part of the richness of the writen form. And in speech
    we have to be content with context -or shadowboxing as Silas would have it."
  created: '2005-06-22 22:08:49'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: ">we idicate the possessive with s and our tendency to contract through vowel
    ellision. Neither of these characteristics of English are what I would consider
    fundamental aspects of language\r\n\r\n[begin amateur linguistic rambling]\r\n\r\nNot
    to get off-topic or nit-pick, but I'd point out that contracting in English is
    a type of cliticization. Which I think is a pretty fundamental aspect of language(s).
    While cliticization may well not be fundamental to our understanding <em>what</em>
    our utterances mean, I still think that it can play a huge part in perhaps <em>how</em>
    we go about meaning. Which words get contracted mor productively, which get privileged
    over others, etc.\r\n\r\nThat said, I've been reading a lot of Cormac McCarthy
    lately and he tends to eschew most, if not all, punctuation in his dialogue. And
    I have next to no trouble making sense of it. Although it tends toward the redneck
    & hillbilly, with which I'm well acquainted.\r\n\r\nIt may be the case however
    that marking possessives with an 's' (<em>a la</em> English plurals) isn't as
    fundamental to language as cliticization. Although I still wouldn't want to suffer
    through the amibiguities were it axed from the orthography."
  created: '2005-06-22 22:09:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Which language holds sway over the rules of another?\r\n\r\nNot quite that
    simple, of course.\r\n\r\nThe Quebec government language laws stipulate that you
    can't have English-only store signs in that province. (The possessive apostrophe
    is not French). There is no mirror-law in any anglophone province. Therefore,
    to create a logo that would be consistent across all of Canada, Tim Horton's dropped
    the 'postrophe. Actually, that's a total assumption on my part, but I can't think
    of any other reason they'd do it!\r\n\r\nStrangely, the very first store was named
    \"Tim Horton\"."
  created: '2005-06-22 22:33:34'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "English may seem overpunctuated to Europeans because it is so efficient and
    concise.\r\n\r\nTry saying that in French in 13 words! Without a comma yet. \r\n\r\nEnglish
    may convey as many points, with as much complexity as French or German, but in
    smaller space. Compressed sentences may create a need for more, or at least a
    higher percentage of clarfying marks. \r\n\r\n\"Oh, I see. I thought this meant
    that James was broken quickly by the chicken. What an interesting mental picture!\"
    \r\n\r\nIt's a bigger problem than punctuation when people confuse very different
    words ( barter <--> haggle ). No book about punctuation can solve that. There
    will always be people who care about language (type, poetry, art, etc.) and those
    who don't. \r\n\r\nWhen a 'Great Leader' says nuke-yuler on a regular basis, it's
    easy to lose hope. That's lose, not \"loose\"....\r\n\r\n;)"
  created: '2005-06-23 01:03:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "L'anglais peut sembler exc\xE9dent ponctu\xE9 \xE0 Europ\xE9ens parce qu'il
    est si efficace et concis.\r\n\r\nSince 'overpunctuated' is arguably two words,
    not one, I think the French, in this example at least, is pretty close to the
    English in terms of efficiency and conciseness.\r\n\r\nI'm not convinced that
    the relatively heavy use of punctuation in English has anything to do with efficiency
    and conciseness; rather, it seems characteristic of our tendency, for stylistic
    affect, to interject, quite freely, subordinate clauses."
  created: '2005-06-23 06:49:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, a handy comparison of the space-efficiency of various languages (and
    in various scripts, although not as accurately) can be found in Sadek and Zhukov's
    singular \"Typographia Polyglotta\" booklet.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 06:55:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Working in a bilingual culture, I've found that translations usually come
    out longer than the original. Given more time, any writer can be more concise,
    and this is especially true for translators. That may be why in Canadian bilingual
    documents the French is usually longer than the English, because the English is
    more often the original.\r\n\r\nA lot of English punctuation concerns pronunciation.
    That may be necessary because of the great variety within English -- for instance
    it has been said that there's more difference between many dialects of English
    than there is between many closely-related languages. It's interesting to see
    subtitles on American TV, for people talking English with a Scots accent and vocabulary.
    Wasn't \"Trainspotting\" subtitled for US release?\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 11:29:25'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Since all this discussion is for me, just an attempt to distillate my life,
    alembic indeed. I suppose alchemy is beyond passe, positively pre-Copernicun as
    a matter of fact\u2026\r\nI think John H hit on something - the fractured nature
    of the American discourse. Our work is achieved in a linear fashion, the way we
    discuss it does not follow such a tidy course. Perhaps it is related to the Continental
    Divide - the barrier between the old money and the gold rush. \r\nFrench, from
    Late Latin apostrophus, from Greek apostrophos, from apostrephein, to turn away
    \ : apo-, apo- + strephein, to turn\r\nTo turn away. Maybe the apostrophe is the
    quintessential mark in American English. My partners thesis was a discourse analysis
    of the language surrounding the southern border - the blaming, shaming and \"othering\"
    of immigrants. Now that American English has been commodified, the apostrophe
    seems more important than ever\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-06-23 16:45:49'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "I did a little googling:\r\n\r\netymology english possesives\r\n\r\nand came
    up with this bit of history...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.etymonline.com/index.php?l=s\r\n\r\n<cite>\"suffix
    forming the possessive case of most Mod.Eng. nouns, was gradually extended in
    M.E. from O.E. -es, the most common genitive inflection of masc. and neut. nouns
    (cf. d\xE6g \"day,\" gen. d\xE6ges \"day's\"). But O.E. also had genitives in
    -e, -re, -an as well as \"mutation-genitives\" (cf. boc \"book,\" plural bec),
    and the -es form was never used in plural (where -a, -ra, -na prevailed), thus
    avoiding the ambiguity of words like kings'...</cite>\r\n\r\nSo, the possesive
    apostrophe is doing its regular duty of cancelling the 'e'.\r\n\r\nI knew there
    had to be some non-puncutation origin in there somewhere.  English was once a
    very basic and straightforward written language after all.  This also sheds a
    bit of light on the neutralized gender of nouns in English.\r\n\r\nAs words get
    simpler, punctuation steps in to keep order? Will we all be writing binary someday?
    \ Think Woodstock from the Peanuts cartoons.\r\n \r\n\\\\\\|\\| |||\\|\\|||\\//
    /|\\| /\\||/\\\\|\\\\|/ |////\\ \\|\\|\\ \\\\\\/ /\\\\|| |||"
  created: '2005-06-23 17:27:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul, nice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 17:35:13'
- author:
    name: Jason Alejandro
    picture: 110644
  body: Keep apostrophes! I love <a href="http://www.neenahpaper.com/posters">these.</a
    href>
  created: '2005-06-23 17:46:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So how 'bout a new organization?\r\nPETA: People for the Effective Typesetting
    of Apostrophes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 17:48:36'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: "Here's what Customer Service at Tim Hortorns has to say about this. I posed
    the question to them yesterday and this is their reply:\r\n\r\nTim Hortons will
    always be affectionately known to me at Timmy Ho's, sans ou avec l'apostrophe...\r\n\r\n\r\n=================\r\n\r\nSubject:\r\nThe
    TDL Group Corp.\r\n\r\nTo:\r\n\"amy papaelias\" <amypdesigns@yahoo.com>\r\n\r\nFrom:\r\nantoinette@timhortons.com\_\r\n\r\nDate:\r\nThu,
    23 Jun 2005 12:04:54 -0400\r\n\r\n\r\nDear Ms. Papaelias,\r\n\r\nI would like
    to thank you for your patronage as well as for taking the \r\ntime to write to
    us with your question.\r\n\r\nThere are a number of explanations as to why the
    grammar has changed \r\nfrom Tim Horton\xE2\u20AC\u2122s with an apostrophe to
    Tim Hortons, no apostrophe.\r\n\r\nRon Joyce and Tim Horton the All-Star hockey
    player founded Tim Hortons \r\nin 1964.  In 1974 Tim Horton tragically died in
    a car accident.\r\n\r\nToday, the corporate name is not a possessive of the person
    Tim Horton,\r\ntherefore there is no apostrophe. The name of the restaurant chain
    is\r\nsimply Tim Hortons, not Tim Horton\xE2\u20AC\u2122s Donuts or Tim Horton\xE2\u20AC\u2122s
    \r\nRestaurants.\r\n\r\nFurthermore, the Tim Hortons chain has grown to such a
    vast size (more \r\nthan 1,900 stores in Canada and 120 in the United States),
    that the \r\npluralized name reflects that size. And finally, the name Tim Hortons
    is spelled\r\nexactly the same in both French and English, which lessens confusion.\r\n\r\nNo
    matter how you spell it, Tim Hortons provides our loyal customers \r\nwith coffee
    and fresh-baked goods that they can enjoy daily. Thank you again \r\nfor your
    letter, and I appreciate your comments.\r\n\r\nSincerely,\r\nThe TDL Group Corp.,\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAntoinette\r\nOperations
    Services Representative\r\n\r\n=============\r\n\r\nDate:\r\nWed, 22 Jun 2005
    14:42:52 -0700 (PDT)\r\n\r\nFrom:\r\n\"amy papaelias\" <amypdesigns@yahoo.com>\_\_\r\n\r\nSubject:\r\nTim
    Hortons vs. Tim Hortons'\r\n\r\nTo:\r\ncustomer_service@timhortons.com\r\n\r\n\r\nHello,\r\n\r\nMy
    name is Amy Papaelias and I have a question:\r\n\r\nWhy is Tim Hortons spelled
    without the apostrophe? Is\r\nthis because it better serves the bilingual signage?\r\n\r\n\r\nThank
    you,\r\n\r\nAmy Papaelias"
  created: '2005-06-23 18:05:45'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: Excellent work, Amy!
  created: '2005-06-23 19:20:55'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Why did Antoinette thank you for your patronage, Amy? Is she presuming, or
    is there something from your original message to her that you're not sharing with
    us? Hmmm? A love of Donuts perhaps? \r\n\r\n;D"
  created: '2005-06-23 20:54:58'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: "<em>A love of Donuts perhaps?</em>\r\n\r\na love of all things canadian...\r\n\r\nAntoinette
    used her incredible customer service skills to detect my years of non-apostrophic
    patronage as an honorary canadian undergrad in Montr\xE9al...."
  created: '2005-06-23 21:25:51'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: '"Take the apostrophe, there is so much confusion over how to use it you have
    to wonder if it has become dysfunctional," he says.Punctuation doesn''t "become
    dysfuntion''l", people do. There are a broad spectrum of Apostrofic issues, from
    common names being equal to occupations, to the need to justify by omission, to
    words that already end in s, that it hardly makes for sightly chat to read of
    professionals arguing about someone else''s "argument for entertainment value"
    to get rid something we cannot lose...is the BBC bored?  Let''s at least cut their
    funding. '
  created: '2005-06-24 14:43:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not convinced by the Tim Hortons official explanation.\r\n\r\nTim's is owned
    by Wendy's, but I don't see them removing that apostrophe with the same rationale,
    it wouldn't play well in the States.\r\n\r\n\"Lessening confusion\"? -- It's the
    language law!"
  created: '2005-06-24 15:41:26'
- author:
    name: Martin LAllier
    picture: 110634
  body: "my \u201Csecond-language english\u201D question is, after reading many messages
    above: why do the British and Americans entertain different spelling for  the
    same words (i.e.: colour vs color)?\r\n\r\nain't that silly? :)\r\n\r\nAnglo-canadians
    (the ones I've worked with anyways) seem very hesitant about which form to prefer... "
  created: '2005-07-16 03:33:04'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Speaking as a Brit, I've often wondered which forms are preferred in Canada
    - perhaps someone could let us know. \r\nAs to why we have the differences: aren't
    they (mostly) changes that Webster (or, as Tom Lehrer would put it, \"one of that
    crowd\") suggested for \"improving\" the written language, which the Americans
    took up with enthusiasm, and the British largely ignored? Also forms which were,
    er, <em>formerly</em> used in UK English (or some dialects thereof), which fell
    by the wayside as \"archaic\", but continued to be used across the pond (I'm thinking
    of \"gotten\", for example)...\r\nBTW, I'm all for keeping apostrophe use as the
    \"rules\" currently would have them used: though I think \"rules\" as a term is
    probably unhelpful - \"conventions\" may be more appropriate...?"
  created: '2005-07-16 09:53:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Canadians are rightly ambivalent (as they are about many things): there are
    several style guides used, from local sources such as the Government, The Canadian
    Press (CP), and The Globe and Mail, to American ones such as the Chicago. Amongst
    the home-grown ones, the Globe and Mail (Canada's \"Old Grey Lady\") favors trad/Brit
    usage. \r\n\r\nOn the subject of spelling variants, the US is not homogenous,
    either. I don't know about the present day, but in De Vinne's \"Correct Compostion\"
    c.1900, he listed spelling variants from six sources: Century, Standard, Webster,
    Worcester, Stormouth, Oxford -- the latter two being UK dictionaries, so at that
    time I would assume there was a strain of Anglo-Americanism in practice south
    of the 49th (or varying rates of modernization, as Dave suggests). Is that still
    the case, I wonder, probably not: Spanglish, Ebonics/hip-hop and email-ese/text-ese
    more likely to be mixing the pot.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-16 10:34:01'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Many of the differences in British and American spellings are due to the
    time and circumstance of the founding of colonies in America. The English language
    was (and is) still developing, taking and using foreign words, creating new words
    to describe new conditions and inventions; and as the language and vocabulary
    developed and standardised, the distance in geographic and politic terms of Britain
    and America played its part, so the spelling of words became standardised to different
    situations. Local (of the Pilgrims and other British immigrants in America's case)
    dialect played its part in the development of English in both countries with different
    pronunciations developing and being accepted in general use. This lead to disagreements
    of spelling that neither country was prepared to back down from.\r\nThe use of
    apostrophes has also changed; the \u2019d ending (eg drown\u2019d) was in common
    use until the 18th century to differentiate it from the long e used in beloved
    for example.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-07-16 11:07:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I rememeber when I went to Vancouver as a kid, the one thing that turned
    me off about Canada was the deeply-rooted ambivalence. And I'm guessing it's worse
    at the other end of the sta... I mean country.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-16 17:02:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yeah, seeing color spelt two different ways must have been really yucky.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nIn
    today's letters to the editor (Guardian), in response to an article on children
    participating in a traditional sports event in Ulan Bator:\r\n\r\n\"Good to see
    them practising the three Rs: riding, wrestling and archery.\""
  created: '2005-07-16 18:32:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, it wasn't anything \"formal\" like spelling - you know I don't care much
    for formalistics. It was more about the overall atmosphere of the place. And notably
    this was back when I was in blind love with the US. Don't get me wrong, I like
    Canada; I just wish it was more Canadian.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-16 18:53:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I like Canada; I just wish it was more Canadian.</em>\r\n\r\nSince this
    is a thread about grammar, I feel entirely justified in pointing out Hrant's subjunctivitis:
    you with it <em>were</em> more Canadian. :)"
  created: '2005-07-16 19:02:39'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "LOL!\r\n\"Who started the Pedants' Revolt? Which Tyler\"... (sorry)\r\nBelatedly:
    thanks Nick, for the answer about Canadian preferences (or lack thereof)."
  created: '2005-07-18 15:41:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant - what do you dislike about ambivalence? Ambivalence promotes skepticism.
    Skepticism maintained is the mechanism that allows the brain to 'regress' in response
    to fuzzy heuristic judgements that turn out to be false. ( I am reading your article
    as provided by enneson). \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-18 22:30:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Ambivalence promotes skepticism.\r\n\r\nYou have a point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-18 23:34:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: From talking to Canadians I know I get the impression they wish it was 'more
    canadian' too. But then it's only been canada since 1967 - not very long. And
    a skeptical slow approach toward creation of nation states seems healthy to me.
  created: '2005-07-19 00:50:24'
date: '2005-06-21 15:11:56'
node_type: forum
title: apostrophes really necessary?

---
