---
author:
  name: patty
body: "I need to find a  typeface that when you see it inmediately you think: Latino
  Am\xE9rica.\r\nIs there such thing as \xBBrecognizable\xAB Latin American typefaces?
  or typefaces that people \r\ncould define as such, as is the case for example of
  Cheltenham, Century,\r\nNews Gothic, Goudy in North America?\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\nPatricia"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "That's a very good question. There are certainly fonts that stereotype Latin
    America, or have been used so often for Latin American content that they have
    become falsely associated with the culture (<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/showfont.cfm?fid=LH.398.0.0\">Lithos</a>).
    \r\n\r\nFor something authentic I'd look to almost anything by <a href=\"http://www.kimera.com.mx/mac/tipoinicioing.html\">Gabriel
    Mart&iacute;nez Meave</a>."
  created: '2005-06-22 00:29:19'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'Also, it''s good to remember that South America is a big place, filled with
    very different cultures. I once asked my Argentinean friend a similar question.
    His retort: "I''m looking for a good European font. Can you help me?"'
  created: '2005-06-22 00:33:24'
- author:
    name: rafaelneder
    picture: 110506
  body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nfirst is very difficult (almost impossible i think) to estabilsh
    a identity concept about latin america. We are multicultural, plural and each
    country have different cultures and reallities. \r\n\r\nFor a panorama o latin
    america prodution in the last years take a look in this website: \r\nhttp://www.letraslatinas.com/bienal2004.shtml\r\n\r\n\r\nIn
    Brasil take a look in those links\r\nhttp://www.tipografica.com/57/?id=4\r\nhttp://jeff.cs.mcgill.ca/~luc/brasilfonts.html\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 01:45:15'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Patty, latin american typographic scene has been under great efervescence
    during the last three or four years. Since then some quality foundries have appeared
    and as Stephen Coles noted every place is developing it's own characteristic work.\r\n\r\nGabriel
    Mart\xEDnez is a must, he is actually the most oustanding mexican typographer,
    but south america -specially Argentina- has a more developed type scene. To my
    eye Alejandro Lo Celso's work has a very refined latinamerican taste.\r\n\r\nI
    can only say that there is not enough tradition in latin american type as to have
    characteristic faces yet. If I had to define the distinctive characteristic of
    latinamerican typefaces of the last years I would say that chunkyness, quirkness
    and organic angularity, but there are as well another trends towards, voluptuosity
    and roundness.\r\n \r\nYou may want to read this interview \"Latin Alphabet in
    Latin Hands\"\r\nhttp://www.typofonderie.com/gazette/articles/latintype\r\n\r\nLetras
    Latinas (Latinamerican type biennial)\r\nhttp://www.letraslatinas.com\r\n\r\nLook
    at Alejandro Lo Celso's work\r\nhttp://www.pampatype.com\r\n\r\nThis site shows
    work from various argentinian designers\r\nhttp://www.sudtipos.com/\r\n\r\nThis
    site shows work from various chilenian designers\r\nhttp://www.tipografia.cl/\r\nThe
    site is in remodelation so try this(http://www.tipografia.cl/sitioantiguo/index.htm)\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-06-22 02:00:13'
- author:
    name: Miguel Hernandez
    picture: 110435
  body: "Hi Patty,\r\n\r\nThere are latinamerican culture inspired letterforms & typedesigners
    living in southamerican countries.\r\n\r\nNice Links Guys, i just like to show
    some Latinamerican inspired pixel modular typefaces,\r\ntake a look at my LatinoPak
    fonts here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.atomicmedia.net/hernandez.php\r\n\r\nSaludos,\r\n\r\nmh\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 03:09:36'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Great post H&eacute;ctor! Thanks for expanding my weak attempt.
  created: '2005-06-22 08:46:44'
- author:
    name: patty
  body: "Hi!\r\nThanks a lot all for the links.\r\nStephen you are right about Lithos
    (help!); but which other fonts stereotype Latin America outside Lithos or Optima?
    (Only to know for not to use them and break the chain)\r\n\r\nthanks \r\n\r\nPatricia"
  created: '2005-06-23 14:59:33'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: There was a great article about stereo<em>types</em> somewhere, but I can't
    find it. I think it was printed in one of the design mags and ported online. Hopefully
    someone recalls.
  created: '2005-06-23 18:25:55'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Well, Optima could qualify as a latin american looking face as I find that
    it shares some similarities with Gabriel Martinez's work.\r\n\r\nA very popular
    byble edition the \"Biblia Latinoamericana\" is set on Korinna, indeed many ITC
    and Bitstream \"ugly\" faces with a naive charming intention may match this kind
    of look such as Belwe, Benguiat, Seagull or Souvenir.\r\n\r\nI think that the
    essencial characteristic behind this look is the hand carved or hand made quality,
    which is present in many in the previously posted examples.\r\n\r\nStephen, you're
    welcome.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-06-24 04:04:46'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Miguel if by the chance you read this, what happened with Quetzal?\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-06-24 04:09:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One adjective: fauve. Works like a charm.\r\nAnd Eastern Euro design enjoys
    that too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-24 04:10:17'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Here's an interesting thread on Moiguel's Quetzal\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/29/49880.html?1061796101\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-06-24 04:26:31'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: 'Some stereotypes to avoid: <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/tango/">Tango</a>
    and the House <a href="http://houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=142">Latino!
    Pack</a>.'
  created: '2005-06-24 14:29:14'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: Interesting, Hrant. According to <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fauvism">this</a>,
    <em>fauve</em> is French for wild beast. Makes me think about the idea of the
    <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jean-Jacques_Rousseau#The_theory_of_the_.27noble_savage.27">bon
    savage</a>; the civilized ones being condescending to the wild ones.
  created: '2005-06-24 15:15:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not condescending. Note my \"enjoys\" above. I love Nature immensely, and
    I think fauve design is helping prevent its loss.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-24 17:09:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Further:\r\nWhat I disdain -or maybe just pity- is Constructivism, Modernism,
    Das Grid, etc.\r\nSo the cornerstones of what one might term \"civilization\"...
    But not me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-24 17:12:55'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'when i hear the word <em>fauve</em>, i think of the artistic movement of
    the same name: <a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fauvism">fauvism</a>. another
    word that could be used to describe a quality of many latin designs (but not all)
    is "<a href="http://typophile.com/node/5303">chunky</a>."'
  created: '2005-06-25 19:34:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Tellingly, the defining attribute of Fauvism is the use of vivid,\r\njuxtaposed
    colors; and one could say that fauve type design does\r\nthe same with <strong>typographic</strong>
    color!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-25 19:57:39'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: Patty, what aspect of Latin America are you trying to convey? Unless you can
    bring your project into tighter focus you're not likely to get a good result.
  created: '2005-06-27 02:25:19'
- author:
    name: patty
  body: "When I initially wrote I was thinking on two things: one, a great interest
    on knowing what is going on in the latin america typographically speaking. The
    second a could-be project for a nonprofit latinamerican organization in Germany,
    where the audience is 80 percent latin, 20 percent german. \r\n\r\nthanks\r\n\r\npatricia"
  created: '2005-06-27 22:29:57'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: That sounds very general. My instinct would be to go for something sharp and
    modern, to avoid various stereotypes. There are good links in posts above from
    rafaelneder, rs_donsata, and Miguel Hernandez. Not to beat it to death, but Latin
    America is a big place, and not at all uniform. Best of luck.
  created: '2005-06-28 05:00:51'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I'm with the folks who advocate avoiding stereotypes. I live in an area that
    has a 40% Hispanic population, and there are a couple of free Spanish-language
    newspapers available at the bus stop I use every day to get to work. Every now
    and then, I pick up a copy and use my VERY limited knowledge of Spanish to see
    what's buzzing among many of my neighbors. Being typographically inclined, I also
    notice that there is precious little, typographically speaking, to distinguish
    these publications from the others, all written in English for English speakers,
    that are available at the bus stop.\r\n\r\nSo, if you want to know what constitutes
    up-to-the-minute Latino typography, visit Spanish-langauge websites, go to a library
    and check out their Spanish publications, or hang out at bus stops."
  created: '2005-06-28 14:00:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But yours is an expat community (as is mine, in LA). Look instead at something
    like Mexico's \"El Universal\" newspaper, which uses the zesty Zocalo. People
    are different, as much as they are the same. Do we avoid leveraging that?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 16:09:17'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<strong><em>People are different, as much as they are the same. Do we avoid
    leveraging that?</em></strong>\r\n\r\nNot in the least. As much as I love fresh
    peach ice cream, the world would be a poorer place if that were the only flavor
    available."
  created: '2005-06-28 16:37:39'
- author:
    name: patty
  body: "Or typefaces are different, as much as they have a purpose to meet. \r\nBut
    I think is true that one thing is how people from other parts of this world  think
    of what will convey Latinamerica, (using Hrant word, or how expats think they
    have to portray themselves to the eyes of other cultures: <br>(the stereotype-face),\r\n<a
    href=\"../desktop/latina.gif\">latina.gif</a>\r\n<em>-for cultural fanzine</em>\r\nas
    what  Latinamerica actually uses. \r\n<a href=\"../desktop/sabor.gif\">sabor.gif</a>\r\n<em>-book
    tittle</em> \r\n\r\npatty\r\n are we allowed to load pictures in Beta? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-02 22:54:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'Bureau Grotesque (once labeled as having "too much salsa" by the AD of Time
    Mag.), Giza, Rhode and now FB Titling Gothic are all working hard down there.
    In addition, Cyrus'' faces, like Prensa and Dispatch do very well. We''ve been
    doing a lot of custom work and licensing in L.A. (admittedly a huge place), over
    the past 10 years. I''m not sure if this is because we speak the language (literally),
    or our fonts do, but having exchanges with designers, editors and publishers every
    week, if not every day, also helps. By and large, I feel L.A. publications, ones
    that must attract L.A. audiences in the 100''s of thousands, are drawn to organic,
    hand-made-looking and humanist inspired fonts rather than modernist, computer
    modernist styles, or anything "Germanic" (whatever that is). We are expecting
    to see, in the next 2-5 years, much more home rown design there and expect it
    to go along these same stylistic lines, but who knows. '
  created: '2005-07-03 18:22:03'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: David, can you cite any examples? The publication that comes to mind when
    I think of the City of Angels is "Los Angeles" magazine, which makes prominent
    use of Neutraface, a face whose origins are both modernist and "Germanic" (well,
    Austrian anyway).
  created: '2005-07-03 18:55:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Marc, I think by L.A. David meant "Latin America," rather than Los Angeles.
    I was thrown by that also. '
  created: '2005-07-03 20:05:57'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "That makes sense, William. I read most of the thread in one pass, and assumed
    David was replying to Hrant's comments about Los Angeles.\r\n\r\nHrant, thanks
    for the pointer to \"El Universal.\" A handsome newspaper, that one."
  created: '2005-07-03 20:18:45'
- author:
    name: patty
  body: "Prensa, Zocalo, Bureau Grotesque are more for Newspapers.\r\nWhich ones would
    you recommend for Corporate Identity?\r\n\r\nPatricia"
  created: '2005-07-04 21:09:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I actually wouldn't recommend Zocalo for a newspaper. Although technically
    it seems super, it simply has too much character. News is better told by a balding
    middle-aged man (sure, with a Jalisco accent) not by a morena Acapulcan vixen.
    Here's an example of what I mean:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/universal.gif\r\n\r\nIt's
    really way too... \xA1festive! in a context like this. Unless maybe you're a Palestinian
    whose home has been razed or something.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-04 21:21:23'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Patty, go for the clich\xE9 if this is what your audience can easily digest
    and understand, I don't suggest you should use Lithos or Latino Pack (but if it
    works fine then it must be ok) but we also must remember that strong conventions
    are necesary for plain understanding.\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-07-05 05:37:36'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Hrant I actually like Z\xF3calo a lot on El Universal, it has the exact amout
    of energy needed to tell the news, because news usually have a very strong flavour
    in M\xE9xico, not to say this is the common place or healthy practice but many
    newspaper's most popular section is the \"red news\" (la nota roja).\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-07-05 05:54:43'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "I completely forgot to mention the <a href=\"http://www.tdc.org/news/2005Results/Rumba.html\">TDC
    Award</a>-winning <a href=\"http://just.letterror.com/ltrwiki/LauraMeseguer_2fSpeCimen\">Rumba</a>,
    which was not designed by a Latin American, but Laura Meseguer, who is from Spain.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://icograda.com/web/galeria-past-single.shtml?pfl=galeria-single-past-2.param&op2.rf1=183&op4rf1=1&op4rt1=15\">Here's
    another nice sample.</a>\r\n\r\nRumba will be featured in Interrobang 3, which
    will be available at TypeCon05 and mailed to SOTA members."
  created: '2005-07-05 18:28:36'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"News is better told by a balding middle-aged man (sure, with a Jalisco
    accent) not by a morena Acapulcan vixen.\"\r\n\r\nHa ha! How about if the typographic
    voice has flavor AND the headlines are written to match? Forget the illusion of
    objectivity, go for the local identity, right down to the editorial and design
    voices. \r\n\r\nI've always thought there should be colorful, genuine TV announcers
    with lots of subjective flavor to their reports. Not everyone needs to pretend
    to be \"fair and balanced\". "
  created: '2005-07-06 18:02:47'
- author:
    name: mosh
    picture: 109476
  body: "Patty,\r\n\r\nI wouldn't say there's a particular type to associate with
    Latin-America, since our foundries -when printing started in America- used European
    material for their labour (mostly). Even though, modern attempts have been made.
    H\xE9ctor's fonts are a good example, in my opinion. \r\n\r\n....................\r\n\r\nI
    am not sure if the following can help you, but anyway I post it. These are some
    qualities I have noticed in present, hand-drawn lettering in my homecountry (M\xE9xico).
    Maybe it could help you when choosing your type. At least, the display type.\r\n\r\nCorrosion
    (due to climate factors or to cheapness of materials)\r\nIrregular baselines\r\nElaborate
    -almost Victorian- ornamentation (outlines that outline outlines!)\r\nLack of
    mechanical precision\r\nColour explosion (primary colours). Words might even have
    different colours to them in a single sentence.\r\nMixed use of serifs in the
    same \"font\".\r\nMixed use of bold type along with italics set in smaller sizes
    and in diagonal angles.\r\nLots of ornamental \"dingbats\" like stars, dots, lines...\r\nA
    lot of signs are still done by hand and not by computer. A colleague of mine has
    a formal training in Graphic Design, but still makes hand-rendered signs for several
    clients.\r\n\r\nThere's even a design style in vogue in M\xE9xico called Fe\xEDsmo
    (\"uglyism\" is my free translation of the term). Some fonts have been made with
    that approach in mind (I recall \"Luchita Payol\" from Edgar Reyes, another colleague
    of mine- you can ask him for samples at fabrikavisual@hotmail.com).\r\n\r\n.................\r\n\r\nOf
    course there are stereotypes, but stereotypes are not to be avoided without a
    second thought. Stereotypes have the great advantage of aiding in easiness of
    communication. I have seen lots of (in my opinion: farfetched) type from US products
    that try to depict Latin-America. Although they seem to me to be more a Tex-Mex
    result, they actually convey the flavour of the latin countries to the US people
    due to repeated media exposure.\r\n\r\n..................\r\n\r\nI wouldn't say
    Lithos would be the wisest choice. I would go for a more grungier contour...\r\n\r\n..................\r\n\r\nI
    am living in M\xFCnchen. If I can be of any further help for your project, feel
    free to contact me at moshdesignerERASETHIS@yahoo.com\r\n\r\n\r\n-Mosh\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 10:35:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Which ones would you recommend for Corporate Identity?\"\r\nCorporate Identity,
    Eldorado.\r\n\r\nSorry to confuse the L.A., with LA, I call the ciudad LAX, and
    someone who used to live there, Ex-LAX.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 13:00:23'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>Stefan Hattenbachs</strong> Oxtail<strong>, which has recieved much
    deserved attention recently, has a rather latin flavour to it, I think. \r\nThat's
    the typeface I'd choose if ever anyone asked me to set the word </strong>Caramba.\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2005-07-12 14:57:34'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "Its hard to tell what is a latinamerican type. I m thinking about music and
    I could not say Piazzola is more or less latin than Shakira or Cafe Tacuba...
    so different fonts will talk about them, right?\r\n\r\nwe dont have tradicional
    latinoamerican text font but a lot of display ones that I feel represent latinamerican
    spirit like <a href=\"http://www.sudtipos.com/fonts-mariabrug.htm\">Murga</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.sudtipos.com/fonts-candombe.htm\">Candombe</a>, <a href=\"http://www.sudtipos.com/fonts-habanos.htm\">Habano</a>
    and maybe some others like <a href=\"http://www.sudtipos.com/fonts-portenia.htm\">La
    Portenia</a>\r\n\r\nSorry for my english\r\nbest\r\nAle\r\n\r\n.www.sudtipos.com"
  created: '2005-07-13 13:38:06'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: ale, have you ever considered doing a text font? it would be interesting to
    see one come from the sudtipos group.
  created: '2005-07-13 17:23:34'
- author:
    name: Henry Hauger
  body: I agree with the Oxtail suggestion.
  created: '2005-07-14 18:07:34'
- author:
    name: patty
  body: "thanks all for the neat input, I certainly have a broader idea of how to
    approach the project if it materialize.\r\nIn the mean time\u2026I think I am
    in love with El Dorado and its lucious italic.\r\nTalking about Oxtail, in the
    beggining I didn't see what you were saying then I tested it and indeed it could
    work, the tail and the counters (d, b specially) give a nice twist to its egyptian
    origin.\r\n\r\npatty"
  created: '2005-07-26 10:30:43'
- author:
    name: manisalao
    picture: 115990
  body: www.latinotype.com its an excellent chilean foundry!! and to cheap!
  created: '2008-10-07 15:42:37'
date: '2005-06-21 21:49:19'
title: Latin American typefaces

---
