---
author:
  name: parker
  picture: 109663
body: "\r\n\r\n1. you  said that \"the  virtues of good typeface are more than skin-deep\"
  -- can you talk  about that?\r\n\r\n2. sometimes --  it seems to me that type design
  is like 007. top secret (if we compare drawing or painting and type design. ) I
  can't find books about type design (we can find more books about lettering  -- like
  the books by Michael Harvey)\r\n  are you going to write a book about type design?
  \r\n\r\n\r\n3. is there a chance that you and other type designers will develop
  a deep  course about type design -- and enjoy  it here; something like design workshop.
  (I know that there's  a type design workshop  by Jean Fran\xE7ois Porchez  in Madrid
  -- but i can't go to Madrid)\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "I agree. There should be something offered stateside. Like a week long intro
    course. Maybe more, if there is enough demand. Full days. I spent 2 semesters
    at pcad in letterform design, and I still feel like a need more. Of course, east
    coast / west coast folks would be the lucky ones. \r\n\r\nAs a side note, if Jonothan
    Hoefler would take me on, I'd clean his house and sleep on the door step. I might
    need some crackers and water. But I'm good for it...\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/13190
    ... Hmm... Wink Wink."
  created: '2005-06-22 20:01:32'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "You can get Federal Student Loans to study in Britain. The University of
    Reading seems to have the best course (the one year MA Type Design program) in
    type design around\u2026\r\n\r\nThere is another program in the Hague. That is
    about it for real [post-graduate] education in Type Design.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-22 20:49:36'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "The in deep knowlege of type design was from the beginnig till today a secret
    & mystic thing. Dont underestimate the mystic part for the outsiders - the customers.\r\n\r\n--<a
    href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2005-06-22 20:52:25'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: ">>You can get Federal Student Loans to study in Britain. The University of
    Reading seems to have the best course (the one year MA Type Design program) in
    type design around\u2026\r\n\r\nHow do you do that Dan? I was thinking of doing
    this, but couldn't find any affordable ways to do so. I went up to the school
    in April because I was thinking of applying for a fellowship there. \r\n\r\nWhat
    also of those who already have Master's Degrees?\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 20:57:08'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>How do you do that Dan?</em>\r\nI went to Germany instead of Britain
    for graduate study. So I don't know the details. But all the Brit-catalogs that
    I saw made it sound like a total paperwork thing. Many had a specific page for
    American students. I think that Grad. Students can take ouy $7,500/year in subsidized
    loans, and up to $18,500 in subsidized + unsubsidized. Britain is very expensive
    for students who are American citizens.\r\n\r\n<em>What also of those who already
    have Master\u2019s Degrees?</em>\r\nI don't have any graduate degrees. But one
    can always get <strong>another</strong> Master's Degree ;-)\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-22 21:04:26'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: ">Britain is very expensive for students who are American citizens.\r\nYou
    can say that again. When I was in London a couple of months on a sort of type
    related vacation (yes, I'm that big of a nerd) I discovered how difficult and
    expensive studying abroad could actually be for Americans. \r\n\r\n>But one can
    always get another Master\u2019s Degree ;-)\r\nIndeed. :)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 21:09:27'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "Not sure why I'm part of the incantation of this item's title, but hey --
    I'll give it a shot!\r\n\r\n>it seems to me that type design is like 007. top
    secret \r\n\r\nAnnoying, isn't it? I suspect this is because typefounding has
    its roots in the guild tradition, in which master craftsmen were deeply reluctant
    to share their trade secrets. (There's an anecdote about young Joseph Jackson,
    apprenticed to William Caslon, learning his trade by boring a hole through the
    master's wall; this sums it up.) Christopher Plantin's \"Dialogues,\" which purport
    to explain type design to the lay public, are riddled with intentional errors
    (though the book is still a good read), and Joseph Moxon's \"Mechanick Exercises\"
    is similarly oblique by design.\r\n\r\nThere are a lot of personal monographs
    about lettering, even more about typefounding, but only occasional writings about
    typeface design that are really on point. I really like Fred Smeijers books, <a
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/0907259065/typographycom-20\">\"Counterpunch\"</a>
    especially (it's a farrago of ideas, every bit as thoughtful, inventive and thorough
    as Fred himself), but it's not really a manual about how to design fonts. Gerrit
    Noordzij's books are also great, of which <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/ASIN/088179175X/typographycom-20\">\"Letterletter\"</a>
    may be the one that's of greatest practical use to someone wanting to learn how
    to design typefaces. You can generally find Dwiggins' things through inter-library
    loan, and both \"WAD to RR: A letter about designing type\" and \"Layout in Advertising\"
    (ignore the misleading title) offer some genuine insights.\r\n\r\n> is there a
    chance that you and other type designers\r\n> will develop a deep course about
    type design\r\n\r\nA lot of type designers do teach courses on type design. Tobias
    Frere-Jones and Matthew Carter co-teach an excellent class in the Yale MFA program,
    and I'm always impressed by the students' output: more than just drawing good
    letters, they really learn to develop the kind of clarity of purpose that makes
    a good typeface. Cyrus Highsmith teaches a type design class at RISD, Erik van
    Blokland teaches at KABK in The Hague, and Gerry Leonidas runs an outstanding
    program in Reading -- we've hired type designers out of all of these programs.
    If you're interested in type design and thinking about going back to school, I'd
    really encourage you to talk to one of these folks about their programs.\r\n\r\nA
    lot of type designers also participate in workshops. Jean-Fran\xE7ois Porchez
    leads workshops in a variety of places, and the guys from Underware host a travelling
    workshop that looks every bit as exciting as their fonts are. Most accessibly,
    many type conferences have a parallel \"hands-on\" track in which accomplished
    type designers teach their specialties. (This year's TypeCon in New York has everyone
    from John Downer to Ken Barber teaching a workshop -- go.) At Type-90 in Oxford,
    I got to embarass myself in both Fud Benson's stonecutting class and John Downer's
    gold leaf workshop, and I learned quite a lot in the process.\r\n\r\n> As a side
    note...\r\n\r\nEric, we've already got a nice housekeeper at the office, and since
    we're in SoHo it's safe to assume that there's already someone sleeping on the
    doorstep. But if you're ever interested in working here, feel free to drop me
    a line. We don't have any openings right now, but if you'd like to send a resume
    or some work to careers(a)typography.com, I'd be happy to check it out."
  created: '2005-06-22 21:12:29'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\"Not sure why I\u2019m part of the incantation of this item\u2019s title,
    but hey \u2014 I\u2019ll give it a shot!\"\r\n\r\nwell not every day I have the
    chance to talk to you; i don't mind to ask Matthew Carter couple things -- if
    he's  here.\r\n(so if one of you - the type designers - is with touch with Matthew
    Carter -- please ask to  pay a visit.)\r\n\r\nthanks for the books, Jonathan.
    i just ordered two of them (amazon). you see -- since you're \"part of the incantation
    of this item\u2019s title\"  I  gained something today. \r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 21:36:33'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\"Of course, east coast / west coast folks would be the lucky ones.\"\r\n\r\nwhy
    is that?  we are not a global village , but a global room. let's start something
    online -- here, Typophile. "
  created: '2005-06-22 21:44:42'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Maybe the original question is the germ for an online discussion - one which
    would no doubt be very educational. While it's true there are several sources
    for education in typeface design, I think Typophile is a perfect forum for asking
    certain questions....\r\n\r\nParker's first question may be the hardest to answer.
    Let's try. Isn't there a relationship between #1 and #2? The anecdotes about red
    herrings in typefounders' lessons give a clue.\r\n\r\nJonathan mentions \"clarity
    of purpose\".... How's that for an interesting opener? What does he mean? His
    comments reveal an understanding of type in context, which may rarely be discussed
    in these forums. Type can't exist without context. Is this mysterious?"
  created: '2005-06-22 23:17:35'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Parker...\r\n\r\nYes, Typophile is an amazing source for learning, although
    some things just need to be hands on.\r\n\r\neric"
  created: '2005-06-23 01:44:40'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "Eric -  i can see your smile. be nice and say thank you.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\"type
    can\u2019t exist without context. Is this mysterious?\"\r\n\r\ni didn't say that
    type can exist without context  -- or the right word: culture.  and culture is
    about people, history (and history isn't just a number or date),  movies, books,
    music etc etc etc.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 02:08:44'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "<cite>\u201Cclarity of purpose\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nComing from the fine arts
    camp (as I'm sure many of us do) there was much discussion in my painting/drawing
    crits about the \"wholeness\" of a piece.  The term hints at an idea of \"completion\"
    without the definitive concept of \"the end\".\r\n\r\nI think the same goes for
    type design.  A typeface is never \"finished.\" Rather, it reaches a point in
    its development when it is ready to be used and applied and appreciated; when
    the designer sees his/her intention fulfilled in physicality and ready to be shared.\r\n\r\n\"Clarity
    of purpose\", as I understand it, would be the investment and transparency of
    the inner logic of a typeface... a state of wholeness that appeases the assessment
    of a trained eye.\r\n\r\nPerhaps there are elements of biography and history to
    be added to it as well, but at the level of craftsmanship, these factors may be
    negligible."
  created: '2005-06-23 03:15:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Clarity of purpose:\r\n\r\nA font is a physical entity, part artefact, part
    tool.\r\nA typeface is more than that.\r\n\r\nA typeface contains an innate physical
    quality, a syntactic vocabulary of interacting elements: contrast, stress, proportion,
    color, curve-type, serif style, finish, etc. These construct the personality of
    the typeface, which is further expressed in the craftsmanship of the font. When
    all these are strong and work together, there is synergy, and a clarity of purpose.
    \r\n\r\nOnce a typeface has been used sufficiently (however that is defined) in
    the culture, it becomes a collective archetype: everyone knows what the \"Bodoni\"
    quality is, for instance.\r\nWhen people see a typeface used in fitting ways,
    for certain kinds of work, with perhaps the authority of certain typographers
    or typographic schools channeling it towards specific kinds of settings (one thinks
    of Interstate bold condensed, in newspapers), that becomes a justification, a
    confirmation of the original clarity of purpose.  \r\n\r\nSuccessful design is
    purposeful; everything is there for a reason.\r\nTypefaces that are casually derived
    from others, either by tracing scans or re-using bezier paths (and metrics) lack
    purpose, because the re-worker is merely repeating shapes (like mouthing a foreign
    language phonetically) and has little concept of the underlying syntax and vocabulary,
    of why it looks the way it does, of what it means."
  created: '2005-06-23 10:09:55'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: "Jonathan Hoefler wrote:\r\n<cite>(There\u2019s an anecdote about young Joseph
    Jackson, apprenticed to William Caslon, learning his trade by boring a hole through
    the master\u2019s wall; this sums it up.)</cite>\r\n\r\nThis story is also mentioned
    in Fred Smeijers' second book, Type Now.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-23 13:47:12'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "<em>\u201Cclarity of purpose\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI took this a bit more literally.
    I assumed Hoefler meant developing a clear reasoning for the why the type is being
    designed, to articulate 'this is what I want this face to do, and this is how
    it'll do it'. That clarity then guides the other, more ephemeral, creative, elusive,
    \"top secret\" aspects.\r\n\r\nPerhaps?"
  created: '2005-06-23 14:14:28'
- author:
    name: shawkash
    picture: 110759
  body: "Well. I will share what I know ..\r\n1.You may have one of these books: Typography
    by Emil Ruder ( I think it is better for modern typographers) Or Typoraphy by
    Otl Aicher. Both books are giving good background about letters and type design
    princpels.\r\n\r\n2.You may study simple relations between gemotrical shapes..
    by studying the instruction manuals of Roman font, caroline.\r\n\r\n3.Collect
    sketches for letters done by famouse classic designers and try to copy them and
    reform them in big scaled \"grid\" till you creat your own grid system which contains
    your own porportions."
  created: '2005-06-25 05:13:47'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Otl Aicher's <em>Typography</em> has some serious flaws to it. Sadly, the
    only real critique of the book that I know of is in German, in Hans Peter Wilberg's
    <em>Typolemik.</em>\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  children:
  - author:
      name: shawkash
      picture: 110759
    body: Yes I heard about that. but I don't have  detailed information like you
      have. ~smiles~ .. I personaly prefer Emil Roder's Typography. But I guess some
      people still like Otl Aicher's Typography. Thank you for telling me about Wilberg's
      typolemik. I have to search for it.
    created: '2005-06-26 05:28:01'
  created: '2005-06-25 11:29:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think Ruder's book does contain some useful stuff, but in its own design
    (I mean the trilingual original) epitomizes what's so wrong with Modernism: the
    gray uniformity prevents a person from easily finding his language! And this issue
    is relevant to Arabic btw, in its need to tame Latinization.\r\n\r\nIn contrast,
    Aicher's book contains something more valuable to be: original, purposeful thinking.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: shawkash
      picture: 110759
    body: Good point. I was just recommending Ruder's or Otl Aicher's because both
      are good examples for methods in Typography, our friend who is new in designing
      letters may have some useful information from any of books. But I just prefer
      Roder's because he is more into modern typo. For Arabic Typography I don't use
      any methods but I just use some from that and some from this because I sat up
      my own method. you know
    created: '2005-06-27 07:27:46'
  created: '2005-06-26 18:00:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm sorry for the post, I forgot \"where\" I was.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: shawkash
      picture: 110759
    body: No ur talk was nice really.. It was good to learn  ur opinion which is useful
      for my side. most talk here in this forum is very useful really because of the
      quality of people who talk here
    created: '2005-06-28 19:07:30'
  created: '2005-06-27 16:26:04'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I wouldn't recommend Otl Aicher's Typography for the mechanics of type design.
    As Hrant mentioned, Aicher book is really more about being creative humans.\r\n\r\nHe
    was quite passionate about his design theories, therefore in his writing there
    was much supposition and conjecture. But as a teacher, he was inspirational as
    well as controversial. Remember, his roots were deep in creating corporate identities
    and the development of glyph/symbols as language.\r\n\r\nHis feelings for type
    designers was based less on the craft and more about ideas:\r\n\r\n<em>A dialogue
    is constantly in progress with great typographers from the past such as Garamond,
    Bodoni, Baskerville, Walbaum, and with the great typographers of today such as
    Gill, Morison or Frutiger. Not on the account of their reputations but because
    of their theoretical contributions.</em>\r\ntypographie\r\notl aicher\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, and glad I worked with Aicher!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: shawkash
      picture: 110759
    body: "Mr.Norbert Florendo: Did you really work with Otl Aicher's? WOW!\r\n Well
      I like the way that Aicher's trying to think and use his head even he made some
      falls but you all don't say anything good in his book, was it that bad?.. I
      was just giving his book title away of 2 books addresses because I think some
      designers of fonts still found that book even a good start. For me again, I
      prefer Emil Roder's book as a START not as the end .. then to get sketshes and
      read theories should come togather but I recommend our friend to see alot of
      sketches and manual gemotrical fonts to learn by watching. What do you think
      about that? \r\nI want to ask you a question btw, for modern typographers, What
      do you think about Neville Brody?"
    created: '2005-06-28 19:18:24'
  created: '2005-06-28 04:23:01'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Yes, while I was an employee of Agfa, I did work with Otl Aicher during the
    late 1980s to assist in the release and marketing of the Rotis typeface family.
    We worked both at Druckhaus Maack in L\xFCdenscheid, and at Aicher's studio compound
    (farm houses) in Rotis.\r\n\r\nThe last time I saw Otl Aicher was in Paris for
    Agfa's official international press event for the debut of Rotis.\r\n\r\nMr. Aicher
    graciously gave me signed first additions of two of his books, <em>typographie</em>
    and <em>Rotis</em>.\r\n\r\nHis book <em>typographie</em> remains inspirational
    for me but less about typefaces and more about the nature of creative thought
    and intellectual skepticism.\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but so what!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: shawkash
      picture: 110759
    body: 'Mr.Norbert Florendo: It is very great career. I am very glad to know you,
      and I hope u accept me as a friend one day.'
    created: '2005-06-29 14:01:16'
  created: '2005-06-28 20:06:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Norbert,\r\nDid you also know Peter Megert from Bern? I met him when we worked
    at Westinghouse.  He used to send his annual calendar (done in Rotis).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-28 22:35:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I'm sitting here looking at my now very yellowed copy of Ruder's book (purchased
    in 1967). It is now one of my \"old type books\"--strange concept to me because
    at the tiime it represented new typography to me.  I have no problem finding my
    language among the three and the even grey is no more even than any other book
    in print.  Having said that, I hope I have not reopened the wounds created by
    the dreaded Modernism.  I can check back on the many threads where various folks
    wizzed on each others shoes on either side of the Moderism/anti-Modernism battle
    so there won't be any need to revisit that again here.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-06-28 22:45:51'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Ruder's book sums up an era for me. I think that it is safe to say that without
    having to thrash out the good and the bad of modernism in general.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-28 22:57:10'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "<em>Did you also know Peter Megert from Bern?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, Chris, I never
    had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Megert, though I did spend time in both Bern and
    St. Gallen meeting designers and typographers.\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-06-29 00:58:04'
- author:
    name: shawkash
    picture: 110759
  body: 'Did i ever say why not to make an online workshop? '
  created: '2005-06-29 14:00:26'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "I wonder what that would take. Some kind of virtual desktop display + a couple
    cameras set up in work areas you could switch between on the fly. Quicktime coupled
    with chat? or maybe a video chat, iChat does that right? \r\n\r\nThat actually
    sounds feasible. hmmmm..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: shawkash
      picture: 110759
    body: OR chat platform which make us able to share bitmaps, pdf documents some
      how
    created: '2005-06-29 16:39:31'
  created: '2005-06-29 15:06:05'
date: '2005-06-22 18:04:03'
node_type: forum
title: 'Hoefler: the virtues of good typeface'

---
