---
author:
  name: markatos
  picture: 110243
body: "This ID project is well under way, but I wanted to get some feed back on it
  before it gets published.\r\n\r\nI'm especially curious to see whether anymore/anyless
  can be done to the logotype.  Something doesn't seem entirely right.\r\n\r\nVital
  provides Life Services to AIDS patients.  So the mark is taking the AIDS ribbon
  and flipping it over into a V.  We want to stay away from Red, so we went with a
  fluorescent blue.\r\n\r\nYour comments are always appreciated.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nPeter "
comments:
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I lilke the color you choose. I wonder if it's efficient to cross the ruban
    in back of the V.\r\n\r\nDid you try to reverse the aids ruban?   I join a rough
    <a href=\"http://webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/V.gif\">Sketch</a> of what I want to say.
    \r\n\r\nI don't know if it has a TM on this ruban on anykind of use.\r\n\r\nThe
    typeface is also a good choice, though I think it would be better to have a horizontal
    cut on the top of the V stem or an angle on only one side.\r\n\r\nKeep going\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-22 20:03:37'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: "Hi Sim,\r\nGood suggestions.  We did try flipping the AIDS ribbon as you
    illustrated, but decided that it was too close to some other AIDS organizations
    (Walk for AIDS being one of them) to pick that mark.\r\n\r\nI will experiment
    with having the angle be on one side of the V.  Probably the right.\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2005-06-22 20:20:47'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'My first thoughts looking at your logo. It could be for a hardware manufacturer.
    Its not warm or accessible. Shouldn''t the type, and color reflect "care" and
    "understanding" rather than "corporate" and "cold". I would look at other typefaces
    and not use all caps and I''d use a warm color. As for the ribbon why not use
    the accepted symbol for Aids awareness? Why do you feel you have to recreate the
    wheel? I bet who ever invented it in the first place would be happy to let you
    use it and it already has a history and an idenity. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: markatos
      picture: 110243
    body: "We definetly explored warmer colors.  Greens especially.  But the client
      felt a vibrant blue had the life they were looking for.  \r\n\r\nAs for the
      mark, they are in a tricky position of being and AIDS services instituion but
      not to pigeon-hole themselves as such.  Getting funding for solely AIDS is very
      difficult.  So it's fine balance.  Hence the subversion of the AIDS ribbon.
      \r\n\r\nBesides I don't think it would be very originial or distinguishing to
      use the AIDS ribbon.\r\n\r\nWe also presented all lower case type treatments,
      but they weren't bold enough for them.  They really want 'bold' and 'vital'.
      \ We almost went with a V-like dove treatment, but they felt that was too Non-Profit
      and wimpy looking.\r\n\r\nThanks for the feedback though.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2005-06-22 22:20:17'
  created: '2005-06-22 21:53:06'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "The whole point of using the AIDS ribbon is it isn't original or distinguished,
    but it has instant recognition to the general public. Who cares if you use of
    the AIDS ribbon, I bet only you. \r\n\r\nYou need to go back to the client and
    fight for your warmer choices in colors. Blues = Cold\r\n\r\nAs for the type why
    not try leaving the name in caps and make the slogan something like a script.
    Strong and warm."
  created: '2005-06-22 22:36:48'
- author:
    name: aheep
  body: "I would definately try to push a vibrant spring fresh alive green. This blue
    isn't winter cold, but I think it could give off that connotation. I don't agree
    with having to use the AIDS ribbon. Do all company's aimed at breast cancer have
    to use a pink ribbon? Or one's for teachers use an apple and books? No, it gets
    old and is too generic. I agree that it does pigeonhole the company, who may branch
    out to other things in the future and would be stuck with the ribbon sympbol.
    Some people may also unrightfully associate the AIDS ribbon only with the gay
    community and not seek the company's services. \r\nI don't like the curves on
    the ends of some of the letters, it's not on all the letters so it kind of detracts
    from the overall look once you notice it. "
  created: '2005-06-23 07:50:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Possibly what doesn't seem entirely right is that you've created a slightly
    abstracted <a href=\"http://images.google.com/images?q=pretzel&hl=en\">pretzel</a>.
    In spite of that, I like the mark. Perhaps the ribbons in the back could be outlines,
    rather than solid shapes? This will emphasize the 'V' more and play down the pretzel
    thing.\r\n\r\nAs for the blue, it says 'healthcare provider' to me, so that's
    good. But it also says 'faceless HMO'. So there's that.\r\n\r\nWhat I really don't
    understand is this statement: \"As for the mark, they are in a tricky position
    of being and AIDS services instituion but not to pigeon-hole themselves as such.
    Getting funding for solely AIDS is very difficult. So it\u2019s fine balance.
    Hence the subversion of the AIDS ribbon.\" If their sole service is AIDS life
    services, how would marking them as an AIDS-only institution be putting them in
    a \"pigeon-hole\"? That <em>is</em> all they do. Right?\r\n\r\nAll-in-all, I think
    it works. But some tweaks may be necessary to take it to the next level."
  created: '2005-06-23 15:23:59'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I like it. I would agree it seems a bit more 'corporate' than maybe the client
    wants to communicate, but, then again, if a big part of the identity is presenting
    a certain face to those that fund them, perhaps this is an ideal logo.
  created: '2005-06-23 16:59:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I really like the mark, I have a sew suggestions for improving it & adding
    warmth/humanity.\r\n\r\n- I wonder if the V-ness of the mark wouldn't be enhanced
    by using some old fashioned engraving lines behind the main V to shadow the bandage/ribbon
    behind the V. The lines could be just lines ( very sixties/seventies ) , or they
    could be ornate like on Currency or something in between. This hatching would
    feel warmer & would clarify the V without requiring a second color.\r\n\r\n- You
    could go with a second color, a green or a two blue \r\n\r\n- I wonder how an
    A ( the A in vitAl ) which is rounded on top would feel. I bet it would feel warmer.\r\n\r\nHere
    is a rough\r\n\r\n<a href=http://www.eyebytes.com/vital.gif> {example} </a>\r\n\r\nOf
    course you would want the A to line up properly and I think a finer pattern would
    be better in the ribbon but there it is."
  created: '2005-06-23 17:04:46'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Eben is on to something there with the shadow idea...
  created: '2005-06-24 14:58:58'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: It looks like an inverted pentagram. I like it. But maybe not for what you're
    doing.
  created: '2005-06-24 15:37:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: The shading is a good call, Eben. Anything to punch up the 'V' in the mark.
  created: '2005-06-24 19:54:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: There are a ton of ways to do the shading. Getting the shading to not compete
    would be the trick. My shading is sort of too interesting or attention grabbing
    I think. I think that the mark is really strong - it just needs that one last
    step to make the V pop. I would have suggested a 2nd color but it's not a big
    corp & also I think logos *should* work in one color first. I'd like to see the
    finnished product however it's done.
  created: '2005-06-25 17:45:20'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: "thanks for all the comments folks. \r\n\r\ndaniel: I tried again to change
    their mind on the color. I did talk them out of the blue, but into Blue 072u!
    \ This wasn't intentional of course.  My client is 5 women who run this organizaton
    and during this recent meeting they grabbed my pantone book and went nuts.  I
    thought I was doomed.  But they miraculously chose the same color. \r\n\r\n72u
    is more of an unique color for an organization, but I am not sure it is any better
    than 801u.  It isn't warm and perhaps even colder than the initial choice, but
    I guess it is earthy.  They definetly want something that isn't \"the straight
    and narrow.\"  Which is why they liked the flourescent 801 first, and why they
    like the indigo. \r\n\r\nGave them a few reasons as to why this may not be the
    way to go, but focussed on how I think this is color has a \"down emotion\" instead
    of something up and lively.\r\n\r\nThey did say I could recommend something else.
    \ One caveat though, the Executive Coordinator said,\"I can't stand Greens, don't
    like oranges or mustards, and we don't want any kind of pink.\"\r\n\r\n<strong>So
    if any of you can think of something warm that isn't the above, then PLEASE let
    me know.</strong>\r\n\r\nGreat ideas on the mark.  And yes, they are an AIDS org
    but due to the rapidly evaporating AIDS funding, they need to position themselves
    as LIFE SERVICES for all the critically ill, with a specialty in AIDS patients
    I guess.  So they absolutely do not want and AIDS ribbon, and that is why they
    were into the inverting of the AIDS ribbon concept.\r\n\r\nI told them I want
    to step back a bit since their deadline isn't as hard now.  I am going to look
    into these shading ideas Eben suggested (thanks).  I am also going to try and
    render Sim's idea as I think it is much more simple, but also more of a direct
    reference to the AIDS ribbon so it might not fly.\r\n\r\nI also think making it
    a little more 'flowy' might lighten things up a bit.\r\n\r\nNice type idea on
    the A.\r\n\r\nI'm going to posting my edits here in the next few days. Please
    stay tuned.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nPeter."
  created: '2005-06-27 05:41:45'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: I really like this one, but, I may second Dans remarks about the logotype
    being slightly '.."corporate" and "cold"..'.. <em>( But, I also think the ideas
    Eben posted about the shaded 'V' and the rounded 'A' may be nice additional details,
    as well.. What about creating a more rounded wordmark for 'VITAL', over all.?
    Like a slightly rounded lower part of the 'V', top of the 'A', and left lower
    edge of the 'L'.? )</em>
  children:
  - author:
      name: markatos
      picture: 110243
    body: "Good ideas, formlos.\r\n\r\nI'll post where I get to end of day today."
    created: '2005-06-27 16:22:08'
  created: '2005-06-27 07:14:12'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Markatos, did you run a teal color by your clients? I've never met a woman
    client who didn't love teal. You could use the teal color as an accent color and
    keep the metalic blue.
  created: '2005-06-27 22:33:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I would also make sure that they are looking at a black & white version too
    since this is going to be xeroxed too I bet - and nobody like a surprise.\r\n\r\nThat's
    another reson to watch your shading carefully & come up with something that is
    likely to xerox well. If there is going to be shading you might even make a small
    medium & large with slightly different shading to address that potential weakness
    in shading. Otherwise, if you are going with just one shading version - test test
    test.\r\n\r\nI know you want to stay away from red & pink - but - what about a
    cochineal? It's mexican red pink kind of color. \r\n\r\nIt does sound like they
    want the logo to feel like authori-tay. Indigo would be good for that. Also, the
    heavy contrast will look good. \r\n\r\nFlourescent 90's/emergency orange is STILL
    a fav of mine after all this time but I doubt they would go for it.\r\n\r\nI'm
    psyched to see what you come up with.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: markatos
      picture: 110243
    body: "Not sure why I couldn't add attachment to new post, but look at my first
      post for my attachment (is that the way it is now?)\r\n\r\nThese are executing
      SIMS idea.  They are kind of rough, but I don't know if this is too close to
      what these guys are doing:\r\nhttp://www.aidswalk.net/sanfran/index.html\r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\nWorking
      on original mark shading next."
    created: '2005-06-28 19:08:09'
  created: '2005-06-27 22:59:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Psyched to see it.
  created: '2005-06-29 00:07:44'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: "Not done.  But this is the shading idea that I think will work best.\r\n\r\nThe
    other ideas (half tone, currency-like shading, vertical and horizontal lines)
    don't reduce well and moire on screen (they are making a DVD to go with their
    press kit).\r\n\r\nI'll post some finalzed stuff tomorrow.\r\n\r\nSee link to
    file up above (shadingComps.gif)"
  created: '2005-06-29 00:34:11'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I really like what you have active right now, love the solution to the shading,
    but the ends of the ribbon shading look kind of like claws. Maybe try make the
    ends of those lines a little smoother, less hooked. ?
  children:
  - author:
      name: markatos
      picture: 110243
    body: "Eric,\r\nI can see what you are saying.  Though I am torn.  The other ideas
      I tried (shadingCompsV2.gif uptop) don't seem as soft as the ends that bough
      outward.\r\n\r\nThe straight vertical ends I think work best, but when placed
      with type it might create too rigid a lockup.\r\n\r\nThoughts, folks?"
    created: '2005-06-29 19:17:23'
  created: '2005-06-29 07:48:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "In terms of the shapes I like the inward & active best. Honestly it took
    a while before I noticed the difference. I think the biggest issue is how best
    to shade the thing. I think what you have works but I wonder if more difference
    between the thick & thin might give the mark more sparkle or life. What other
    angles did you try? Too bad that cross shading won't work. Did you ever seriously
    consider 3 versions for different sizes? I'd like to see what straight vertical
    looks like. With difference in stroke shape that might be very cool.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-29 20:13:46'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: I may second Eben, out of these I also prefer the 'Inward' version.. <em>(
    I dont know how small the logotype will be used, but you may still loose some
    of the 'shady' details :), when reducing / resizing the logotype.. Maybe try even
    less than five 'stripes', for the shading.? )</em>
  created: '2005-06-29 20:33:49'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: "Eben,\r\nHave a look.  Even on my computer screen I get a moire pattern if
    I zoom out.\r\n\r\nI could create different vertical patterns for different sizes,
    but I generally don't like to create special case marks unless absolutely necessary.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-29 20:37:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Good point. Four stripes may reduce better too. Reemebr it's not the number
    of stripes it's how you use them. - sorry.
  created: '2005-06-29 20:37:46'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: "Implementing some of Formlos' logotype ideas uptop.  I think those were good
    suggestions, wondering if I need to go further or stop where I am...\r\n\r\nAlso
    not sure I have the top of the T optically adjusted correctly. A strange dilema
    since both the I and the A have rounded tops."
  created: '2005-06-29 22:01:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I like the shading, but not the implementation with the 'sliced' ribbons.\r\n\r\nHow
    often will this be used in one-color black? If it's not a lot, I'd go with a color
    shading and let it me. Maybe use a coarse line-screen halftone for a black/white
    version."
  created: '2005-06-29 23:48:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "RE: the T. I think you could take the heigh of the cross bar of the top of
    the T up a little so that it is slightly thicker. I am assuming that the rounded
    ones are new.... right? I really like the type so far. \r\n\r\nRE: The verticals.
    What formloss was saying about fewer thicker stokes is right. I think if you go
    with verticals you will definitely need to use thicker ones - and also, I think
    that variable width stokes would look better - maybe even pen-like strokes with
    slight curves. That's what I meant by 'With difference in stroke shape that might
    be very cool.'. I think straight lines are not going to work.\r\n\r\nThis is going
    to be a really nice logo. You might want to walk away from it & take a walk &
    come back to see it when your mind is fresh."
  children:
  - author:
      name: markatos
      picture: 110243
    body: "Eben,\r\nCheck the rough sketch, curvedVerticalShading.gif.\r\n\r\nIs that
      what you are talking about?"
    created: '2005-06-30 00:38:43'
  created: '2005-06-29 23:50:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yes, thats the sort of thing. But I would use fewer & thicker strokes. Right
    now it feels a little mechanical - It is working, but it isn't as interesting
    or compelling as I think it could be.\r\n\r\nI am not sure how to explain what
    I man - but maybe this will help. Take a dollar bill out of your pocket. Look
    at the side that says 'ONE' not the side with washington's portrait. Look at the
    Eagle in the circle on the right, To the right of it is an ornament that points
    to the right. See the lines that come out there? They are thicker & closer together
    near the eagle & they spread out & get thinner as they move away. \r\n\r\nI am
    suggesting that with 10 lines not 20 if you go vertically, or with 4 or 5 lines
    if you fallow the path of the ribbon you could shade the ribbon. I think using
    more than that will as you know create moire patterns. \r\n\r\nTo do it well I
    bet you would have to draw it by hand.\r\n\r\nI also wonder if the white lines
    that indicate the bends would look better if they were thicker & had thick & thin
    parts.\r\n\r\nProbably it would be best if I drew you what I meant, but I can't
    do that today. How is the type comming?\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: markatos
      picture: 110243
    body: "That was a fun trip around the dollar bill :)\r\n\r\nI'm not feeling the
      vertical line shading.  I think it goes against the flow of the ribbon.  That
      said, I'd be curious to see how your execution for \"following the path\" of
      the ribbon would look. The lines on the ribbon right now do go from thick to
      thin, but perhaps you mean more exagerated, more caligriphic....if I have time
      I'll delve into that, though I have to show this to client first thing tomorrow.\r\n\r\nI
      think the type is done.  See pdf above."
    created: '2005-06-30 02:02:35'
  created: '2005-06-30 01:40:03'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: "your dollar bill idea led me to add more of a dynamic stroke to those stripes.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Eric_West
      picture: 109470
    body: "Peter,\r\n\r\nshadingComps_v3.gif ... v7 is sparkling to me, no more meat
      hooks, nice and clean."
    created: '2005-06-30 04:04:52'
  created: '2005-06-30 02:29:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yeah, v7 is sweet! I agree the paralell lines work much better.
  created: '2005-06-30 05:11:29'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "<em>( Off Topic.: Whats wrong with Typophile not letting me see / download
    .pdf files.? Am I the only one getting a 'File Not Found' error when trying to
    access the 'vital.pdf' file.? )</em>\r\n\r\nI also think the shading on 'v7' is
    well done.. :)"
  created: '2005-06-30 07:43:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I don't know - I have the same problem.
  created: '2005-06-30 10:02:29'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I think the issue with the shading is that it's actually lighter than the
    foreground ribbon. Sort of the opposite of what you are after.\r\n\r\nThat said,
    the latest version is definitely an improvement."
  created: '2005-06-30 14:53:04'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: "Thanks guys.\r\n\r\nAluminum, I want the back to be lighter and less bold,
    the front to be bolder.  If I was using color, the back parts would be a tint
    of the forground color.  So I think this translates that effect.....it also flows
    into the V, which I think makes sense metaphorically.\r\n\r\nGonna try and sell
    the client right now.\r\n\r\nDon't know why the pdf isn't working.\r\n\r\nHere,
    have a close look at the type and let me know what needs to be fixed.  I'm sure
    you'll have suggestions ;)\r\n\r\nwww.markatos.com/xfer/vital.pdf\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your help again.  You've pushed this further than I would have gone on my
    own.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nword."
  created: '2005-06-30 16:18:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The text is pretty sweet. I still really like it. Too bad it's not on a T-shirt...
    I think to improve it I would make the horizontal leg or the far right 'L' a little
    thicker, like on the crossbar of the T. \r\n\r\nI would also look at making the
    round parts even rounder. Right now the letters look like the are straining. Maybe
    that's good. Really good. But I would look at it some aditional ways too.\r\n\r\nThis
    PDF worked for me BTW."
  created: '2005-06-30 16:29:58'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "I think the type is nice, but I also liked the type treatment ideas Eben
    previously posted <em>( <a href=\"http://www.eyebytes.com/vital.gif\" target=\"_blank\">www.eyebytes.com/vital.gif</a>
    )</em>, so here is a scribble of what I had in mind, when posting <em>'..slightly
    rounded lower part of the \u2018V\u2019, top of the \u2018A\u2019, and left lower
    edge of the \u2018L\u2019..'</em>.:\r\n<em>> <a href=\"http://www.formlos.net/Tmp/VitalScribble\"
    target=\"_blank\">www.formlos.net/Tmp/VitalScribble</a>\r\n( But, looking at it
    again, that may well be too much.. :)</em>"
  created: '2005-06-30 18:03:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Formloss, That is tasty. Just what I was wondering about. I think the top
    of the A would have to be a bit talller & oivershoot the line a little to look
    right. The Leg on the should be thicker too probably... The New 'I' is really
    interesting. It makes the whole thing feel very different. Like a brand of Skis
    or a sports drink... ;-) hee hee. But really, I think this kind of play with the
    letter shapes is really really good.
  created: '2005-06-30 18:13:56'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "<em>> I think the top of the A would have to be a bit talller & oivershoot
    the line a little to look right..</em>\r\n\r\nSure, Ill may second that, as well..
    :)\r\n<em>( As I stated, that was just a quick sketch, because of my 'disability'
    to write down and tell my original thoughts, in proper, readable English.. :)
    Seeing is believing.. :)</em>"
  created: '2005-06-30 18:32:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Agreed!
  created: '2005-06-30 18:35:10'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: "Thanks guys.  Those type ideas are really nice, but I do have to keep this
    subtle.  THey can't look too fancy or else no one will fund them! (and I am kind
    of sneaking type changes under the radar at this point).\r\n\r\nI definetly will
    beef up the L and possibly play with rounding things a bit more (probably on the
    L corner).\r\n\r\nSo they liked the shading to the mark, or at least half of them
    did.  the other half (the older ladies) thought it was too busy.  I can see this.
    \ So I am going to have to achieve the same, but with less.\r\n\r\nI'll post revisions
    later today.\r\n\r\nYou guys have been very helpful."
  created: '2005-06-30 18:45:53'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Markatos, look at Vista from Emigre this face is one you might want to use
    as text with the logo you are developing. I like the shading but be careful if
    you are going to print it in small sizes. You might have to develop a small logo
    and a large logo.
  children:
  - author:
      name: markatos
      picture: 110243
    body: "man, I would love to use vista, but there isn't the budget.\r\n\r\nwe're
      going with frutiger and meridian.\r\n\r\nnew stuff coming soon."
    created: '2005-07-01 01:38:13'
  created: '2005-06-30 21:35:46'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: "Here are the drafts I showed to client.  They saw the 4 line and some of
    them thought it was too busy.\r\n\r\nSo I went down to 3 line shading, and played
    with the reverse.  Would still need some revision, but you get the idea.\r\n\r\nAnd
    yes, indigo won out over the other color ideas.\r\n\r\nDaniel, had another client
    of mine choose Vista for their project, so I may be able to use it on this.  yay."
  created: '2005-07-01 23:54:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: The three line does look really strong. Just to be persnickety, I would maybe
    adjust the 3 lines so they are slightly thinker in the middle bit. I hope you
    show us the final version. Cheers!
  children:
  - author:
      name: markatos
      picture: 110243
    body: Good call Eben.  They do fade too quickly
    created: '2005-07-02 18:11:21'
  created: '2005-07-02 00:31:01'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Have you considered a similar shading treatment at the bottom of the V?\r\nTim"
  children:
  - author:
      name: markatos
      picture: 110243
    body: I'll look into that tim.
    created: '2005-07-02 18:12:16'
  created: '2005-07-02 13:33:44'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I agree that the 3-line version looks great.
  created: '2005-07-05 16:47:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I was just looking at the reversed ( white on blue ) examples & I think I
    like the open examples where the end of the ribbon has no line defining it, MUCH
    better. '
  created: '2005-07-05 16:52:10'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: Same here.
  created: '2005-07-05 20:09:02'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: "here are final revisions.\r\n\r\nhmmm. I could go either way on the ends.
    feels more refined closed, more lively open...\r\n\r\nsee what the client says."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Eric_West
      picture: 109470
    body: yo, that final one on the right all by itself can drop-it-like-its-hot !
      Uh! Yea!
    created: '2005-07-08 06:02:53'
  created: '2005-07-05 21:20:06'
date: '2005-06-22 19:24:11'
title: Vital

---
