---
author:
  name: William Berkson
  picture: 110306
body: "Over at <a href=\"http://www.typographer.org/\">Typographer</a> Yves Peters,
  in response to requests from typophiles, including this one, reviews Fleishmann
  revivals Mercury, Farnham, Fenway, DTL Fleishmann and Eudald. A thoughtful and insightful
  review that was obviously a lot of work. Thanks Yves!\r\n\r\nOverall, it seems that
  Yves admires the audacity and stylishness of Farnham, but favors Mercury as the
  most usable and elegant version. \r\n\r\nAny thoughts from other typophiles who
  have used these? "
comments:
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "yer a bit behind the times, willy b.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/blog/110"
  created: '2005-06-26 18:17:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Yeah, I just started looking at the tracker, and saw that after I posted.
    Blogs don''t show up in the main listings. Still, I would be interested in any
    who have actually used these fonts for additional views. They are really all outstanding
    work, which makes the comparison interesting.  '
  created: '2005-06-26 18:25:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Blogs don\u2019t show up in the main listings.\r\n\r\nI thought they did
    (since Tiff's does), but you're right about this one.\r\nSo I guess sometimes
    yes sometimes no... A bug, then.\r\n\r\n> I would be interested in any who have
    actually used these fonts for additional views.\r\n\r\nTotally. But I think Paul
    is hinting there's already a place to do that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-26 18:38:23'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Could be because Tiff is a moderator?
  created: '2005-06-26 22:33:01'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "pardon the intrusion, but i don't have the fonts and i want to say a word
    or two:\r\n\r\n you need a lot of courage to say that the work by Matthew Carter
    is great, but not so so great  \" because it is a commissioned type family, designed
    within certain editorial constraints, it has become the most mainstream and \u201Cslick\u201D
    adaptation.\r\nCertain creative decisions must\u2019ve steered it away from the
    Fleischmann model, insofar that it makes me wonder if I\u2019m doing Fenway a
    disservice by including it in this comparative review instead of looking at it
    separately.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nso...there's a need to ask him"
  created: '2005-06-26 22:43:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sometimes, you have to say something wrong/borderline (although not intentionally
    - that sucks) to trigger a reliable correction. People react more often to correct
    something, instead of to reinforce it. Unfortunately. As I've said before -to
    Stephen's great amusement, I remember- reckless speculation (which this isn't
    even) is the key to efficient data mining.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-27 02:39:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>you need a lot of courage to say that the work by Matthew Carter is great,
    but not so so great</em>\r\n\r\nnot really, you just need to have your own oppinion
    and not be afraid to voice it. you should have some good reasons to make such
    a statement, however."
  created: '2005-06-27 03:52:54'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I like it, even Pel\xE9 failed penalties, why should Matthew Carter be inmune?\r\n\r\nAltough
    I don\xB4t have any of the faces and only know them by ocassional sighting this
    critic is a good place to start knowing them.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-06-27 05:03:34'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "first and foremost: I didn't talk about \"inmune\" or to \"be afraid to voice\"
    your own opinion. \r\n\r\n\r\nlet's read it again:\r\n\r\nit is a commissioned
    type family, designed within certain editorial constraints...\r\n\r\nCertain creative
    decisions must\u2019ve steered it away from the Fleischmann model...\r\n\r\nit
    makes me wonder if I\u2019m doing Fenway a disservice by including it in this
    comparative review instead of looking at it separately.\r\n\r\n\u2022 \u2022 \u2022\r\n\r\nin
    my opinion  there was  a need to talk  to Matthew Carter;  to hear about the \"certain
    editorial constraints\" that \"steered it away from the Fleischmann model\".\r\n\r\nmaybe
    the client didn't want  the exact model?  who knows. \r\n\r\nthen \u2014 when
    you have the point of view by Matthew Carter \u2014  you can say: i need to look
    at it separatley. or not. and why.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-27 07:28:56'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Tina, I think that your are being a bit harsh on Yves. His article was a
    great review. That being said, I would have liked to have heard what motivated
    Carter's design decisions, too.\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-27 08:13:45'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\"I think that your are being a bit harsh on Yves\"\r\n\r\nwhy? no. i don't
    think so.  we are   here to talk and not to insult. this is like chemistry  \u2014
    a chain reaction.\r\n\r\n and as Paul said:  you just need to have your own opinion
    and not be afraid to voice it. you should have some good reasons to make such
    a statement, however."
  created: '2005-06-27 08:24:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're both being a bit prickly!\r\n\r\nI think it would certainly have been
    nice to ask Carter (and the others too!) about this, but Yves was probably already
    over-drawn on this. And maybe he thought it would be too much of an imposition.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-27 16:35:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Maybe we can all sit down with Matthew at TypeCon and ask him. I'd be game.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-27 18:59:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I used Fenway a lot in 2002 and 2003, first in typesetting <em>Language Culture
    Type</em>, and then in all the print material for the ATypI conference in Vancouver.
    For the former, I made an extended OpenType version with additional diacritics,
    e.g. for Arabic transliteration, which I sent to Matthew for approval.\r\n\r\nJudged
    as a Fleischman revival, I think Fenway is inevitably going to compare less favourably
    with most of the other designs that Yves reviews. But I'm not sure that it makes
    sense to judge Fenway in these terms. Fenway was designed as a text face for a
    magazine, and that is the first basis on which it should be judged. The fact that
    it is based in large part on ideas that can be traced to Fleischman's types seems
    to me a secondary consideration. Fenway isn't really a Fleischman revival; at
    least, it is no more a Fleischman revival than Galliard is a Granjon revival,
    and probably less so. One of Matthew's great talents is the ability to reinterpret
    historical models as entirely modern typefaces, without any lingering whiff of
    antiquity: the models are clearly evident in the resulting designs, but the treatment
    of the ideas is very fresh and, as in the case of the Fenway 'k', open to influences
    outside the model, or to multiple models.\r\n\r\nI would go so far as to say that
    in one important respect at least Fenway may be superior to -- or at least more
    interesting than -- the various recent Fleischman revivals or Fleischman-inspired
    designs: what Matthew has taken from Fleischman's types is not the baroque details
    that make the original so immediately distinctive but which, on closer examination,
    are quite superficial. What he has revived is not Fleischman's style, but Fleischman's
    ideas about readability, applied to an entirely contemporary typeface for a specific
    design brief and printing environment."
  created: '2005-06-27 21:20:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, great stuff. Except the \"Fleischman\u2019s ideas about readability\"
    bit: these have yet to be applied, as far as I'm concerned.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-27 22:32:45'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\nah ha. great stuff, John (I just hope that Yves isn't going to hate me
    \ :)  )."
  created: '2005-06-27 22:43:10'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "I'm going to hate nobody, relax! I haven't read anything harsh or unfair
    until now. :-)\r\n\r\nThis is a great thread, and I'm truly honoured that my review
    instigated this interesting discussion. While I'd like to delve a little deeper
    into the different points raised here, I'm terribly busy right now preparing a
    special little something to promote Typographer.org at Typecon, which needs to
    go to the printer's by next Monday (groan). So please bear with me, I <em>will</em>
    respond to your remarks (some of which are a bit off the mark I think)... but
    not right now. ;-)\r\n\r\nOh, and please don't mind me: carry on! :-)"
  created: '2005-06-27 23:22:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">the baroque details ... are quite superficial.\r\n\r\nI don't think so.\r\nFleischmann
    put them there for a reason. They're part of the design.\r\nMost typographers
    follow the Morison line, favoring bland text types.\r\nI prefer the strong beer.
    With blue cheese.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 00:08:08'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "\r\nOne of the pleasures (and challenges) of working with historical sources
    is that they force you to articulate what it is you like about them. With so many
    type designers engaged in this kind of work, it's increasingly difficult to find
    new ways to react to old fonts; I really wonder whether the world really needs
    another Caslon revival, and we surely haven't seen the last of them. But I also
    felt this way ten years ago, and from the vantage point of 2005 I really can't
    imagine typography without Matthew Carter's \"Big Caslon.\" (Substitute Justin
    Howes' \"Founders Caslon,\" or Mark Andresen's \"NotCaslon,\" if you like -- the
    point is that each of these designers reacted to something different, but very
    specific, in the same source, and in expressing this reaction produced something
    truly vital.)\r\n\r\nThis might be a good time for me to confess something I shared
    with Yves, which is that I don't really think of Mercury as a Fleischman revival.
    I did in the beginning: my first drawings in 1996 attempted a strict facsimile
    of Fleischman's No. 65 & 66, complete with all the baroque details both general
    and specific (droopy ball terminals, dart-like serifs on the caps, a very narrow
    italic, and those blobby serifs that imitate the look of letterpress.) I presented
    these to the art director of Esquire, who politely told me that he didn't think
    they were right for the magazine. In struggling to express what what was wrong
    with the fonts, his assistant came closest when he characterized the fonts as
    \"sluggish.\" I returned to the drawing board, and tried to figure out whether
    there was a way to \"quicken\" my drawings, or whether I should start from scratch.\r\n\r\nIn
    trying to solve the problem, I spent some time thinking about what I liked about
    Fleischman in the first place, to see whether these attributes could be reconciled
    with my newly focussed brief. I discovered that it wasn't the details that I liked:
    I don't especially like the mannered peak of the cap A, or the sleepy lowercase
    g, and I quite dislike the rococo serifs on the caps E, F, T, L, C, G, S and Z.
    What I loved was the economy of the design -- its thrify proportions and excellent
    fit -- and its sparkle. I wondered if these attributes could be amplified, even
    at the expense of historical fealty, and decided to give it a shot.\r\n\r\nHappily,
    Esquire loved the result, and I did too. I found that the less I looked at Fleischman
    types in the Enschede books, the happier I was with Mercury. As Yves observes,
    there is indeed some Rosart in Mercury's Italics -- there's also some Fournier,
    and a little Luce. The italics may be the part of Mercury that departs most dramatically
    from Fleischman, which perhaps also explains why the italic is my favorite part
    of Farnhamn: Christian figured out a way to capture all the virtues of Fleischman's
    italics, and still make the font look badass. I also think Fenway deserves a closer
    look: among other things, Matthew is the only designer who has ever managed to
    wrangle Fleischman's figures into a workable font. Fenway's figures have all the
    ardor and wit of Fleischman's, and that Matthew managed to imbue his short-ranging
    figures with the qualities of these old-style ones speaks to both his skill and
    sensitivity as a designer.\r\n\r\nYves mentioned that Fenway was \"designed within
    certain editorial constraints,\" as obviously was Mercury, but I can't think of
    this as a shortcoming. External constraints give you something to push against,
    as Tobias likes to say; they demand that you substantiate your choices, and they
    provide criteria for evaluating a design's success. This is not to say that a
    revival that's subject to extraordinary constraints will be historically accurate
    (imagine a Cresci italic for cellphone screens), but the result can still achieve
    originality and even greatness. It will certainly be better than a historical
    revival that takes no position whatsoever, which to my mind is the direct route
    to blandness. Happily, I don't think any of our homages to Fleischman are guilty
    of this particular sin."
  created: '2005-06-28 04:38:53'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: Excellent post, Jonathan. Thanks for the insight into your process.
  created: '2005-06-28 06:48:05'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\n\r\n....and guys \u2014  please keep this thread clean... "
  created: '2005-06-28 06:55:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Having done several revivals, that stray from the original to varying degrees,
    I do of course agree with the legitimacy of adapting it to one's own muse, or
    that of one's client.\r\n\r\nAnd I would have to admit that typefaces do have
    a life of their own, beyond the initial intentions of their designer: Futura,
    for example, with most of Renner's signature characters falling by the wayside.
    But some remained, such as the straight-line j and the splayed M.\r\n\r\nThe classics
    have their signature characters which have not been bowdlerized by future generations:
    the broken lower bowl of the Baskerville \"g\", the lower left serif on the Bodoni
    \"b\", the different angle of the top serifs on Garamond T etc. These are the
    exception, however, established by long usage in fine books, prior to mass media.\r\n\r\nThe
    case for the original must still be made, exactly as rendered by its inventor,
    'warts' and all. \r\n\r\nThe fact that the idiosyncrasies do not belong in the
    typography of a particular type designer, art director or publication is an indicator
    of mainstream conservatism when confronted with something a little \"over the
    top\", rather than a mistake by the original designer. In other words, it is a
    question of aesthetic preference, not ergonomics.\r\n\r\nSo, a mass-circulation
    publication's text type will have discreet features, because it must satisy the
    bell-curve's hump of readers' tastes, not because there is any inherent poor readability
    in the occasional idiosyncrasy. \r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 12:19:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Readability is a lot more than mere familiarity (not that the latter is even
    remotely understood by anybody in type anyway). Many people reject this because
    it makes their job harder.\r\n\r\nIn the case of Fleischmann, the idiosyncracy
    is also in his <strong>structures</strong>; that's where his readability kicks
    in, and that's what has yet to be revived. Would that people would revive his
    <strong>ideas</strong>, instead of just his quaint forms.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 16:05:49'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Would that people would revive his ideas, instead of just his quaint
    forms.</em>\r\n\r\nsounds like you have your work cut out for you, hrant. ;^D"
  created: '2005-06-28 16:14:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Touch\xE9, my friendly cowboy! But you should see what I'm doing with my
    Baskerville's italic. It will be what JB would have done... if he were a well-meaning
    zombie haunting the 21st century.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 16:27:06'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "<cite>-- Would that people would revive his ideas, instead of just his quaint
    forms.</cite>\r\n\r\nDid you not read my post? Or do you just think my font sucks?"
  created: '2005-06-28 19:32:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I've always read every word you've written. Did you read Yves's review? He
    quotes me thus: \"To me they all seem like great fonts.\" This is because there's
    a lot more to a good font than Hrant's ideas of how best to carry out a revival.
    Type is about the user, not one of us. This however cannot stop each of us from
    having personal opinions.\r\n\r\nNon-literal revivalism doesn't necessarily revive
    the original's ideas; generally it reinterprets the <strong>forms</strong> according
    to the ideas of the reviver. This is certainly not useless. But it also doesn't
    go deep enough in a certain direction, in this case that of structures conducive
    to greater readability.\r\n\r\nWhat I was referring to was more a process of:\r\n1)
    Trying to figure out what the original designer was thinking; not just observing/borrowing
    what he ended up with.\r\n2) Deciding which of his (presumed) ideas are worth
    reviving.\r\n3) Applying those ideas to forms of this age.\r\n\r\n\r\nI think
    Fleischmann was a genius*, somebody whose thoughts -not just products- are worth
    paying attention to. But what could he have been thinking in making his #65?!
    I mean beyond the superficial baroque styling. Certainly nothing that shows up
    in any of the fonts here, not even Kaiser's, somebody who explicitly started with
    my #1 above. Maybe what he was thinking is incompatible with contemporary design.
    Sure, that's not something to ignore; but at least let's recognize what it is,
    or even just what it might be, and discuss it.\r\n\r\n* And I don't use that word
    lightly.\r\n\r\nTo be fair, the sort of design I'm thinking of is quite unlikely
    to make it into a review of Fleischmann revivals. People would go \"Huh? That's
    <strong>nothing</strong> like the dresses Marylin used to wear!\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 20:28:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> (not that the latter is even remotely understood by anybody in type anyway)\r\n\r\nOf
    course. Only the gifted outsider knows the truth."
  created: '2005-06-28 20:29:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "sorry, inadvertant double click.\r\na \"delete\" button in the edit mode
    would be nice."
  created: '2005-06-28 20:29:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, I know virtually nothing about Familiarity! :-/ It's one of the biggest
    holes in my understanding - probably the biggest. I've asked Kevin for help on
    that, since studying empirical research is the best foundation (although it can
    only take you so far). So at least I want to learn, grow. My ideal business card
    would have \"Eternal Student\" as my title.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 20:34:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I know virtually nothing\r\n\r\nIf you know nothing, how can you tell whether
    others do or do not know anything?\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 20:40:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "From the things they say, the arguments they put forth. You don't have to
    grasp something completely to detect that some people are just making it up as
    they go along, gilding the cage. That's what's so comical about the common ideas
    concerning Familiarity: the chirographers use it to justify their pet ideology,
    and the PoMo/Emigre crowd does the same, but of course both groups are very careful
    to avoid intelligent debate and empirical research about it... Christ, who knows
    what inconvenient places Thought and Logic can lead! Bah, those are just shackles
    on a Great Artiste, after all. Screw the reader.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 20:52:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick wrote: <em>The fact that the idiosyncrasies do not belong in the typography
    of a particular type designer, art director or publication is an indicator of
    mainstream conservatism when confronted with something a little \u201Cover the
    top\u201D, rather than a mistake by the original designer.</em>\r\n\r\nThe thing
    with idiosyncrasies, it seems, is that they should be properly personal, as the
    term suggests, so the whole question of idiosyncrasies in revivals is problematic.
    A copied idiosycrasy is no longer idiosyncratic: it has lost the personal touch
    that made it meaningful and, often, made it work. When Fleischman cuts his idiosyncratic
    rococo details, he is exercising a personal creative decision within the decorative
    context of his cultural milieu. When someone copies those details in a 21st century
    revival, neither the personal creativity nor the cultural milieu is preserved,
    so what was gloriously idiosyncratic in the 18th century becomes affectation.\r\n\r\nI
    like true idiosyncrasy in type design. The first time I saw Franti\u0161ek \u0160torm's
    Biblon I was dancing inside. But when it comes to revivals, I'd rather see the
    idiosyncracies of the reviver than the slavishly copied idiosyncracies of the
    original."
  created: '2005-06-28 21:04:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">empirical research\r\n\r\nI don't think you can find out anything that will
    help design better typefaces, in a lab.\r\n\r\nThe best lab is the centuries of
    research and experimentation that have occurred in the \"marketplace\" of typography,
    where a consensus has emerged as to what are the features desirable for readability
    in a typeface. \r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 21:19:51'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "In the right hands, I think that both approaches are valid. It's interesting
    to see the work that Gerard Unger is doing these days, as he's bringing a decidedly
    personal (and modern) style to a number of different historical idioms; it's equally
    interesting to see what happens when a thoughtful designer intentionally tries
    to slavishly imitate an artifact warts and all (I always think of Justin Howes'
    \"Founders Caslon\" here), in the interest of providing designers another type
    of raw materials with which to work. I think typography, and all of us here, are
    big enough to admit both kinds of typeface.\r\n\r\nHrant, you seem to be suggesting
    that Mercury looks like Fleischman. I really don't think it does; it was the intention
    of the design to participate in some of the qualities of Fleischman's work that
    I described above, but not to actually replicate any of Fleischman's shapes. (That
    was the point of my post, and as always you're making me regret the forty-five
    minutes that I spent writing it.) I'd really encourage you to look at both designs
    a little more closely, after which perhaps you'll share whatever additional specific
    observations you have.\r\n\r\nYou asked in another discussion about my thoughts
    regarding historical revivals in general, and in considering the question I've
    been straining to articulate precisely how my feelings have changed over the years.
    While I chew on this a little longer, I can at least leave you with this: Mercury
    represents the kind of work I'm most interested in doing right now, and it's consistent
    with an approach that Tobias and I have explored for the last few years. See <a
    href=\"http://www.typography.com/catalog/gotham/features.html\">Gotham </a> for
    more information."
  created: '2005-06-28 21:22:55'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\n\r\nwould you mind (any of you) to post a sample?   so we'll see what
    is No.65, 66.\r\n\r\nthank you\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 21:35:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t think you can find out anything that will help design better
    typefaces, in a lab.\r\n\r\nWell, somebody who's not looking won't find it <strong>anywhere</strong>...\r\nUnless
    by \"better\" one means \"more expressive of me me me\". (Shudder.)\r\n\r\n> you\u2019re
    making me regret the forty-five minutes that I spent writing it.\r\n\r\nI shouldn't
    have that power over you (and I don't think I do). When you post something, it
    can never be a conclusive monolith. I've noticed that you tend to make long, neat,
    carefully-crafted posts, and if somebody takes issue with anything in it, you
    snap back with a one-liner. It's like you don't want anybody to touch what you've
    sculpted; even if it can't be the last word, at least it can float in its ether,
    unsoiled. Well, purity and closure are not features of free exchanges. A magazine
    article, sure; an interview, usually; but not Typophile. Nothing to do with me.\r\n\r\nAnd
    certainly don't write anything just for me! Think of all the varied people benefiting.\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019d really encourage you to look at both designs a little more closely\r\n\r\nWhere
    are the things that make the #65 so unique? The variance in finish (like the foot
    versus head serifs) is admittedly there, but the deeper stuff isn't.\r\n\r\n>
    You asked in another discussion about my thoughts regarding historical revivals
    in general\r\n\r\nYes, and I appreciate that whenever you have the time/desire.
    But even more welcome would be exchanges, not monologues, since that's what helps
    the most people most. There are people here who disagree with a lot of what you
    say and make -way more than me- but in the interest of comfort and tact they remain
    quiet. Typophile loses.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 21:49:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, Tina, of course!  :-/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Fman65.gif\r\n\r\n(BTW,
    the bitmap font is Mana-16.)\r\n\r\nThe #66 is its Italic. I don't know much about
    that. Mostly because I don't see \"true italics\" as an indispensable part of
    a system (which doesn't make them useless however). I'm interested in Fleischmann's
    <strong>ideas</strong>, and they are most evident -or more accurately least obstructed-
    in the Roman #65 (something Andy Crewdson originally made me realize).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 21:57:18'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "I gave David the scans Hrant e-mailed me, but now I notice he didn't put
    them online. :-/ I'll ask about it.\r\n\r\nAnd I just got a message from Robb
    that he's going to let me know about publishing theFenway PDFs."
  created: '2005-06-28 22:03:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks for all of your insights, especially to Jonathan Hoefler for  your
    extensive \r\nexplanation of your development of Mercury. \r\n\r\nJonathan, please
    don't be put off typophile by Hrant's obtuse remarks. Hrant benefits \r\ntypophile
    by stirring the pot with provocative remarks. And he harms it when he goes off
    \r\ninto his 'bizarro world,' as you put it, in which muddled generalizations
    are mixed with \r\npersonal insults. Since I enjoy typophile, I just try to appreciate
    Hrant when he is on point \r\nand ignore him when he goes bizarro. Thousands will
    read your comments, so don't be \r\nput off by the loudest guy in the room."
  created: '2005-06-28 22:06:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, it's even harder for me! I have to try to ignore that you're an apologist
    for\r\nfascism and rape. That's worse than the worst font anybody could ever make.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 22:19:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I think you owe William an apology, Hrant.
  created: '2005-06-28 22:36:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe. But I guess I should apologize to Typophile. I'm sorry.\r\n\r\nWilliam
    can cause me to lose control in disgust, and I can't just shut that on and off,
    especially when he uses the ruse of pampering Jonathan's psyche to mount a classic
    veiled little Western personal attack. We're insulted by different things; you're
    not more human than I am.\r\n\r\nOf the hundreds and hundreds of type people I've
    met, he's the only one I can't stand; think about what that implies. I guess as
    a self-defense I want people to know that, to know what he's like under the neoclassical
    veneer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 22:48:54'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nothing riles Hrant more than the threat of being ignored. \r\n\r\n;/"
  created: '2005-06-28 22:50:01'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Yeah, that's out of line. If I were a moderator, I would delete that post.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-28 22:51:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, I said you owed him an apology, not another round of insults.\r\n\r\nWhat's
    all this anti-West BS anyway?\r\nI thought you were proud to live in LA."
  created: '2005-06-28 23:17:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Have you been to LA? Anyway. There are good things about the West, and bad
    things; same for the East (like its sickly fatalism). I'm in the middle. This
    here is a Western environment. I like to point out flaws, with the hope of improvement,
    no matter where I am. When I was in Beirut in April I was complaining about the
    problems there. That should explain a lot. As for William, to me he primarily
    represents a lot of the things wrong with the West, things that are causing my
    people grief (and not just 90 years ago). This is more important than fonts. Most
    people here enjoy the luxury of not really being under cultural/ethnic pressure.
    They are -understandably- more interested in enforcing a stable social environment,
    by censorship if need be. They don't understand the anger somebody like me can
    feel, so they have trouble absorbing the resultant lapses of control. Lucky them.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 23:47:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Most people here enjoy the luxury of not really being under cultural/ethnic
    pressure.\r\n\r\nWilliam was right to call you on \"muddled generalizations\".\r\nYou're
    making an awful lot of assumptions about \"most people\". \r\nHow can you presume
    to know, and minimize, the pressures others feel, in relation to your own, as
    an excuse for losing your cool?\r\n\r\nThe fact is, you are a bully who enjoys
    putting people down.\r\nNo sooner has Jonathan dipped his feet in the Typophile
    waters than you accuse him of not properly getting into the spirit of exchange,
    diss his typeface for not being deep enough, and hint darkly that there are hordes
    of lurkers who dislike his work even more than you do. Yeah, you want to engage
    him in a pissing match, but he has too much class to take the bait.  \r\nMost
    recently, you have satirized me as the \"Great Artiste\" whose attitude is \"Screw
    the reader\". \r\nWhere do I cast my ballot to vote you off the show?\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-29 00:57:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I guess the same place you do everything else, like formulate your arguments,
    hoard all the perceived insults (and not just against you), and even design type:
    your imagination! Voting. A show. Indeed.\r\n\r\nBTW, if anybody ever suggested
    that William be excluded from Typophile, for whatever reason real or imagined,
    I would be the first to oppose them. If that's too complex for you, I understand.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-29 01:59:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe it was the pizza* I just had, but: William, I'm sorry for exploding.
    I can't and won't apologize for how I feel about you, but I can and should apologize
    for how I behave, no matter how anybody else does. Especially in an environment
    I value so much.\r\n\r\n* So was it the Italians or the Chinese who invented it?
    \ ;->\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBut the questions, those remain:\r\nWhat was Fleischmann
    thinking? If the funky stuff in the #65 is not a mistake (and how could it be?
    not a rhetorical question), why does it go unrevived? Also: am I the only person
    who wants to hear Nick, Jonathan, and the other Nick discuss (as opposed to monologue,
    even thought that's better than nothing) the [de]merits of revivalism, in all
    -or at least some- of its many shades? In the furore I forgot to commend Jonathan
    for his \"I\u2019ve been straining to articulate precisely how my feelings have
    changed over the years.\" Change is good. Strain builds character. And maybe if/when
    Jonathan goes to the trouble of elaborating further, that can be a springboard
    for a catalytic <strong>exchange</strong>, something the Undecided (which I myself
    always am to some extent, if never totally) certainly value greatly.\r\n\r\nI
    hope we care about the content, about Typophile, more than about exposing mutual
    character flaws and feeling insulted. If we do, we will not fail to address the
    <strong>content</strong>.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-29 03:27:47'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "I first saw Fenway in 1998 when it was submitted to the very first TDC type
    design competition. I remember what struck me then was the larger-than-usual height
    of its small capitals which were very strongly drawn, and, of course, its excellent
    figures. I must confess, it did not feel like a revival at all...\r\n\r\nI used
    Fenway twice: in 2000, in typesetting the <a href=\"http://www.atypi.org/30_members/35_country_delegates/atypicountry2000.pdf\"><em>Reports
    of the </em>[ATypI]<em> Country Delegates</em></a>, and in 2002, in designing
    <a href=\"http://www.atypi.org/05_About_us/70_publications/50_LCT/\"><em>Language
    Culture Type</em></a> (see John\u2019s post above). In both jobs those small caps
    and figures worked wonderfully. \r\n\r\nThe optimal size range of small caps was
    one of the important features that was studied and discussed in the process of
    developing the multilingual fonts for the MS ClearType Font Collection. It felt
    that the larger s.c.\u2014<em>of the Fenway kind</em>\u2014could work better across
    all three scripts that constitute the MSCT character set (Latin, Greek and Cyrillic)."
  created: '2005-06-29 05:27:59'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: ">What was Fleischmann thinking?\r\n\r\nI think that the period he was living
    in was quite remarkable (at least in his younger days). Science and arts were
    in full swing, there was excitement in the air - discoveries were made, inventions
    done, improved communication made for greater awareness of what happened everywhere,
    etc.\r\nSo F. may have felt part of this movement to Enlightenment and could think
    outside of this constraining box of \"I have to make a living\" and tried to have
    fun doing his job, pushing the boundaries, being creative, trying to lift the
    level of his craft, showing of to others (\"Look what I did!\") -- in other words,
    behaved like a prima donna of typecutting.\r\nAnd that is what made him a genius
    of course.\r\n\r\n(For a great, though perhaps not always historically accurate
    view of the period, read Neal Stephenson's Baroque Cycle. Three wonderful books.)"
  created: '2005-06-29 09:36:02'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: '[ Moderator comment: Someone suggested that a moderator delete Hrant''s attack
    at William in this thread. With apologies to William, I think I prefer to leave
    Hrant''s comment there in its stinking, festering form so people can see for themselves
    who is behind it - a guy who otherwise seems to be knowledgeable and helpful.
    I''m tired of pushing the steaming wheelbarrow behind Hrant. ]'
  created: '2005-06-29 11:58:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Change is good. Strain builds character. And maybe if/when Jonathan goes
    to the trouble of elaborating further, \r\n\r\nHrant, on the one hand you say
    you want Jonathan to participate, and on the other, in the guise of a compliment
    you patronize him with amateur psychology, suggesting that his character is weak
    because he is stuck in a rut. Then you imply he is lazy because he can't take
    the trouble to elaborate further.\r\nPerhaps that's not what you meant, but that's
    the way it comes out.\r\nFor goodness sake, quit fronting and \"address the content\",
    nothing more.\r\n\r\nYou have to resist the impulse to editorialize, it's a can
    of worms. Please stop telling people how you feel, how they feel, why they're
    doing what they're doing, why they believe what they do, and what they should
    do to improve themselves and their work (unless they ask). I apologize for this
    advice, it's the last time.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-29 13:00:23'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "While I lack the training to contribute to a deep analysis of Fleischmann's
    types, I am learning a great deal by reading (most of) this thread. I'm fascinated
    by the perspectives given and am adult enough to make my own judgements about
    them (since they are, after all, individuals' perspectives, not hard-set Truth).
    Many of the lurkers here are just interested in an honest discussion with tactful/respectful
    phrasing, as it's my understanding that this is why Typophile is here in the first
    place.\r\n\r\nIt may be hard to see, but there truly are more open minds than
    open mouths here. I'd love to see this discussion continue on course, and I encourage
    everyone who's participated to continue contributing to the main thread of debate
    and discourse."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maxim Zhukov
      picture: 110611
    body: "> <em>I\u2019d love to see this discussion continue on course</em>\r\n\r\nI
      thought this thread was about Johann Michael and his progeny, not about Hrant...
      And I tried to contribute to it."
    created: '2005-06-29 16:43:58'
  created: '2005-06-29 14:15:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Joe, you might also note that the guy(s) on the other side are nearly always
    middle-aged Anglo males. My point isn't necessarily that there's something wrong
    with that demographic, and certainly not with every member of that demographic
    (<strong>that</strong> would be racism), but that the problem is much broader
    than single individuals; we are largely products of our circumstances, and our
    little squabbles are the ripples on the surface of things that are out of our
    hands. Now, this certainly doesn't remove individual responsability (and that's
    why I realized an apology was needed - because it was the right thing to do on
    my end), but it does create a further responsability of not demonizing individuals,
    not matter how cozy that makes us feel; that's a sure way to perpetuate problems.\r\n\r\n>
    on the one hand you say\r\n\r\nAll I  can say is: I'm not a box.\r\n\r\n> You
    have to resist the impulse to editorialize\r\n\r\nWhile should succumb to the
    temptation of actually addressing the content. Please.\r\n\r\n> there truly are
    more open minds than open mouths here.\r\n\r\nNice expression.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n>
    outside of this constraining box of \u201CI have to make a living\u201D\r\n\r\nThis
    is in fact quite relevant here I suspect. One thing I've been meaning to ask people
    like Jonathan (who have spent way more time than me analyzing the history and
    dissecting the forms) is something Andy brought up years ago: after making the
    #65, why did Fleischmann revert to more conventional forms on occasion (if not
    consistently)? The only hunch I have, based on the detailed \"development\" tables
    in the Enschede specimen books, is that he made the #65 on his own (it was a size
    in a style that he thought was needed), or at least without external \"art direction\",
    while some of the later works were specifically commissioned, presumably by people
    who said -or at least were assumed to think- \"I want a 'normal' font in this
    size, for this use, etc.\" I wonder if this hunch holds any water. If not, then
    it becomes possible that Fleischmann was just an indecisive fellow!  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-29 16:19:38'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: 'Whoosh - the sound of ballot #2 dropping into the box...'
  created: '2005-06-29 16:29:24'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Whoosh - the sound of ballot #2 dropping into the box\u2026</em>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/blog/7006\">*sigh*</a>\r\n\r\ni've been following
    this thread, not because i have anything to add, but at points it's been rather
    insightful. i thought johnathan's comments were particularly so and hrant, thank
    you for your comments on design. we don't even hafta get along, but can we please
    put all pettiness aside and remain on topic? thank you.\r\n\r\n<em>And I tried
    to contribute to it.</em>\r\n\r\nThank you, Maxim.\r\n\r\n<em>not picking on you,
    chris, but that was a last straw for me</em>"
  created: '2005-06-29 16:48:38'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: ">>They don\u2019t understand the anger somebody like me can feel, so they
    have trouble absorbing the resultant lapses of control. Lucky them.\r\n\r\nYeah,
    Hrant...well I might. To purport that anyone on the face of the planet can't understand
    your pain and suffering...spare me (us) the martyrdom. Poor me, I'm a Black man
    in a white man's world, 25% of Black adult males have been to jail partly because
    of socio-economic standards and flaws in our education system.\r\n\r\nCrack-cocaine
    (blue-collar drug) carries a harsher penalty than cocaine (white-collar drug).\r\n\r\nAfrican-Americans
    in the United States have never received reparations for slavery. Educational
    standards in the United States are drawn by property lines leaving many in ghettos
    (primarily African-Americans) to go to school with a substandard education. \r\n\r\nI
    can keep going on...but give me a break!!!  What does ANY of that have to do with
    type? What any of us feel politically have nothing to do with Typophile. (Unless
    the thead calls for it.) I have only been on Typophile for over month, but I have
    witnessed you in virtually every thread I've read insult others or speak in a
    high and mighty tone. Your \"anger\" as you call it, is misdirected. No one faults
    you for anger, but when you take anger and create negative energy with it, there's
    a problem. Martin Luther King and Gandhi felt anger...and they channelled it in
    another way. \r\n\r\nIf you have such a problem with the west then get out of
    the country. While I know Nick Shinn can more than speak for himself, the remarks
    you often throw at him are as racist and elitist as the causes that you are so
    against. \r\n\r\nThere's a band called System of a Down that I'm sure you know.
    They're heavily active in Armenian genocide organizations. If you need a specific
    example of how to channel your anger, listen to their music and pay attention
    to their social activism. They don't wear it on their sleeve. \r\n\r\nThere really
    is no excuse for being cruel. You owe everyone a SINCERE apology, not a half-hearted
    one."
  created: '2005-06-29 17:28:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Thanks, Terry
  created: '2005-06-29 17:28:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> To purport that anyone on the face of the\r\n> planet can\u2019t understand
    your pain and suffering\r\n\r\nYes, that must have been what I meant when I wrote
    \"most people here\"... In fact most people on this planet can understand pain
    and suffering way better than me* (and certainly you**), they're just not on Typophile...
    I wonder why... Like you say, this is a \"white man's world\"; actually it's much
    more narrow than that; how is it \"insulting\" to suggest that somebody from my
    background will naturally have/cause problems here? Now, it is up to me to control
    that; sometimes I fail; but I try to apologize. And I try to make up for it by
    adding what you might call \"positive energy\" in return, and an energy decidedly
    on-topic!\r\n\r\n* Materially I live very comfortably. If I didn't, I'd probably
    cause your system <strong>real</strong> touble. Like those pesky Palestinians.\r\n\r\n**
    BTW, maybe you're not doing enough for your own people? Have you considered that
    your \"channeling\" might in fact be more like dilution, to save yourself the
    aggravation? Maybe you're angry at me because I'm indirectly making you feel guilty?
    Maybe I'm stopping you from shutting out your people's problems?\r\n\r\n> What
    does ANY of that have to do with type?\r\n\r\nEverything has to do with everything.
    Compartmentalizing reality is one way the system maintains itself. But very often
    politics doesn't have <strong>enough</strong> to do with type, I admit. On the
    other hand, a lot of my work in Armenian type is in fact motivated by cultural/political
    realities, and needs. Would it better for me to design exclusively for... Hollywood
    for example?\r\n\r\n> Your \u201Canger\u201D as you call it, is misdirected.\r\n\r\nYes,
    it often is. I am sorry for that.\r\nBut I'm not alone, including on Typophile.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I know Serge personally. He's a great guy, but don't assume he feels free to express
    every single thing on his mind in song. Sony wouldn't have signed him if he did;
    but he has managed to find a way to get <strong>some</strong> of the message out,
    much more than I ever could. But he has more talent than me in his field, plus
    Rock gets a <strong>little</strong> bit more exposure than type...\r\n\r\n> You
    owe everyone a SINCERE apology\r\n\r\nI regret making that post. For me, that's
    as sincere as it gets. Maybe you're used to politicians making promises and apologies,
    but I'm not a politician. I'm not a showman who gets voted on/off. Typophile is
    not so crass.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n\r\nNow for a really crazy idea: follow Maxim's
    strategy. He doesn't need to agree with my behavior (in fact you can be pretty
    sure he doesn't) to actually talk about type. Carl is wrong :-) if all else fails,
    ignore me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-29 18:40:34'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: ">> Maybe you\u2019re angry at me because I\u2019m indirectly making you feel
    guilty? Maybe I\u2019m stopping you from shutting out your people\u2019s problems?\r\n\r\nThis
    kind of comment doesn't even warrant a response. Low-blow, and you know it. \r\n\r\nBTW,
    its \"Serj\" not \"Serge\". \r\n\r\n>>>I regret making that post. For me, that\u2019s
    as sincere as it gets. Maybe you\u2019re used to politicians making promises and
    apologies, but I\u2019m not a politician. \r\n\r\nThank you for the apology. I
    however, didn't make any assumptions about you, I would think you'd be kind enough
    to extend others the same courtesy. \r\n\r\nThis is all I have to say. I will
    not lower myself to the level of petty name calling. If you prefer, by all means,
    continue belittling others."
  created: '2005-06-29 19:11:30'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: You're welcome, Nick. ;)
  created: '2005-06-29 19:12:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Another thought on Fleischmann's idiosyncrasies.\r\nThey do stand out, because
    the idea is spottily applied, not evenly distributed throughout the typeface.
    But is that such a crime?\r\n\r\nHe was ahead of his time -- by the mid 19th century,
    there were many decorated faces that had strange details, but applied throughout.\r\nAdmittedly,
    this is not everyone's cup of tea: Oz Cooper was really down on it, thinking it
    was rather precious to take one feature and pound away at it -- he preferrred
    variety in details.\r\nEven today there are some faces which manage to integrate
    a great deal of peculiarity within the general theme -- Quadraat for instance
    -- it's much easier in an old-style serifed face.\r\n\r\nIdiosyncrasy is no big
    deal. How about Tarzana or Eplica, with their cap E that looks like a flipped
    3?\r\nThat kind of thing may be unacceptable in the publication market that the
    Schwartz, Carter, and H&FJ \"Fleischmann's\" are targetted at (am I right on that?),
    but it is nonetheless legitimate. \r\n\r\nIf I were doing a Fleischmann revival,
    I would probably take the \"quaint\" details and spin them out a bit further throughout
    the face. "
  created: '2005-06-29 22:04:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> But is that such a crime?\r\n\r\nMore than that, I put forth that it was
    entirely careful and intentional. Not \"spottily applied\". And not some stylistic
    frivolity. That doesn't seem to make sense for somebody living then, a punchcutter
    in that position, somebody with such amazing technical skills (like in optical
    compensation).\r\n\r\nYes, he was ahead of his time, but not in an eccentric way.\r\nI
    think he was ahead of <strong>our</strong> time!\r\n\r\n> How about Tarzana or
    Eplica, with ...\r\n\r\nI don't think the sort of strangeness in his #65 can be
    seen anywhere else.\r\nTo me it seems a lot deeper than anything we've ever seen.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-29 22:14:49'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "I think the original question that William put out there was for input from
    folks that have actually used these typefaces. Personally this would be of some
    real use to me.\r\n\r\nWe could debate ad nauseum about whether or not these revivals
    (again - some of these weren't meant to be true revivals) go far enough in exploring
    his ideas and not just his forms, what his intent was, etc.\r\n\r\nI had been
    looking at licensing either Mercury or Farnham. It would be nice to hear from
    some people that have used these faces on real-world projects. Is anyone out there?"
  created: '2005-06-29 22:30:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I\u2019ve been away from the computer for a while, and now return to this
    thread. Wow. \r\n\r\nHrant, the scene of you visibly driving away a valuable contributor
    \r\nto Typophile with your insults made me forget my own manners. My \r\ncriticizing
    you harshly to a third party as if you weren\u2019t here was \r\nrude of me, and
    I apologize for that. \r\n\r\n>We\u2019re insulted by different things; you\u2019re
    not more human than I am.\r\n\r\nHrant, we\u2019re all human here. We are all
    hurt by insults. I have \r\nsuffered, along with almost everyone else on Typophile,
    your \r\ncontinual insults over the past two years.  If my rude post above is
    \r\ncruel \u2013 and it was and I apologize for it \u2013 then aren\u2019t the
    hundreds \r\nof yours as well? Please have a little compassion for Typophiles
    and \r\nshow some \u201Cdecency\u201D in your speech. \r\n\r\nProbably I especially
    rouse your ire because I directly criticize you \r\nfor your rudeness. Well, I
    won\u2019t anymore. This is my last post on \r\nthis subject, and I will stick
    to innocent subjects like type and \r\npolitics!\r\n\r\n>As for William, to me
    he primarily represents a lot of the things \r\nwrong with the West, things that
    are causing my people grief (and not \r\njust 90 years ago).\r\n\r\nHrant, I am
    just a human being like you. Categorizing people (me \r\nincluded) as a \u2018representative\u2019
    of some general evil, like \r\nFascism and rape, is a way of dehumanizing them,
    and excusing the \r\ncruelty to follow, in this case your verbal abuse. \r\n\r\nFolks,
    just so there is no misunderstanding: On Typophile and \r\nelsewhere throughout
    my life I have defended democracy, individual \r\nliberty and tolerance. I hate
    Fascism and rape and have never said a \r\nword in their defense. \r\n"
  created: '2005-06-30 05:15:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Returning to topic. \r\n\r\nI find interesting that both the type designers
    of these \"revivals\" \r\nand Yves, who reviewed them, are much more interested
    in modern type \r\ninspired by old models, rather than a strict revival, such
    as DTL \r\nFleishmann.\r\n\r\nThanks  to John and Maxim for their interesting
    comments on Fenway. \r\nThe Fontbureau site does have examples of the use of Farnham,
    but as \r\nChris says, it would be great to hear from some who have used it. \r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-06-30 16:20:19'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: I've (alas again) had to cringe my way through half of the posts here, so
    if you don't mind I'll address the questions I find most relevant in the introduction
    of my next Bald Condensed, like I usually do. Expect it somewhere next week. Sorry
    Tina. ;-)
  created: '2005-06-30 20:21:49'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: Thanks Yves. that's ok ( i can wait). but start a new thread :)
  created: '2005-07-01 02:45:18'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: '...and... Hrant thanks for the sample.'
  created: '2005-07-02 01:07:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So:\r\nWhat's with that lc \"o\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-02 01:11:21'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "As a latecomer to this forum I have to ask: what were Fleischmann's ideas
    on readability? Was he explicit about them? Did he articulate any in writing?
    \r\n\r\nIf Fleischmann's ideas are in his things (cf. William Carlos Williams:
    'no ideas but in things') can we presume to know them with any certainty? Which
    sets of his things embody them most fully?\r\n\r\nIn relation to Yves' review
    and Jonathan Hoefler\u2019s reflections on his own process, I find it interesting
    and instructive to observe how the Fleischmann corpus spawns different but recognizably
    descendant offspring--descent with modification--responding skillfully and intelligently
    to different, equally vital, ecological pressures, some personal preferential;
    some niche, marketing, or demographics based; some cognitive-scientifically constructed.
    \r\n\r\nPeter Enneson"
  created: '2005-07-12 18:37:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Fleischmann left us with nothing explicit (that I know of).\r\n\r\n> can
    we presume to know them with any certainty?\r\n\r\nWhat's \"any\"?\r\nMore interesting
    is \"enough\".\r\n\r\nDifferent people have different tresholds for crossing over
    from assumption to action. Some people might limit themselves to thinking \"huh,
    isn't that curious\", while others will say \"well, if this is what he was thinking,
    and he was da man, let me try it too\". Especially if one has had his own thoughts
    along those lines. Admittedly, there's the danger of reading too much into it,
    seeing what one wants to see. But really, can that actually hurt anything here?
    I mean, it's not like Fleischmann's descendants will complain.\r\n\r\n> Which
    sets of his things embody them most fully?\r\n\r\nGood question. I think it's
    most useful to look at the fringes; at the stuff that's hard to explain (but done
    with full cognizance). Specifically in this case, the #65. The strangeness in
    the #65 can't really be a \"mistake\", can it? And if it isn't, what is it? We
    must try to explain. And I've only managed to think of one possible explanation:
    divergence to improve readability. I wish people with more talent and skills than
    me would see that too, and revive that aspect of Fleischmann. But it's hard to
    sell.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-12 19:08:21'
- author:
    name: fi
    picture: 113733
  body: lol bump
  created: '2008-12-22 01:55:29'
date: '2005-06-26 16:01:18'
title: Yves reviews Fleischmann revivals

---
