---
author:
  name: oldnick
  picture: 109434
body: "Writing for the majority on the US Supreme Court, Justice David H. Souter said
  \"We hold that one who distributes a device with the object of promoting its use
  to infringe copyright, as shown by the clear expression or other affirmative steps
  taken to foster infringement, is liable for the resulting acts of infringement by
  third parties.\"\r\n\r\nConsider, then, this proposition: \"We hold that one who
  distributes a device with the object of promoting its use to take human life, as
  shown by the clear expression or other affirmative steps taken to foster such takings,
  is liable for the resulting acts of life-taking by third parties.\"\r\n\r\nAre gun
  manufacturers any less liable for what purchasers of guns do with their products
  than file-sharing services are for what their users do with their services? Or have
  we reached the point where, finally, we can openly admit that our society values
  song copyrights more than it values human lives?  Discuss...\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: LasseFernov
    picture: 110636
  body: 'One word: Money.'
  created: '2005-06-28 13:27:26'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Well, if you are a subscriber to the man as machine philosophy, and personal
    responsibility does not exist, as some would have it, yes. We would need to get
    rid of all implements of possible harm. For instance, this pencil on my desk in
    front of me, could very well, somehow, get jammed into my nose. don't laugh. Its
    the same thing.\r\n\r\nIf one does not have the abilitly to commit a crime, to
    be given the choice, one is not free. Of course, there are a few who believe 'we
    the little people' shouldn't be given the freedom of self thought, because they
    have it all 'figured out.'\r\n\r\nFile sharing is not protected constitutionally,
    the 2nd amendment is. (for now)"
  created: '2005-06-28 13:34:01'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Okay, here is the Second Amendment of the US Constitution, verbatim:\r\n\r\n\"A
    well regulated Militia, being necessary to the security of a free State, the right
    of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be infringed.\"\r\n\r\nEric, I
    believe is you read <em>what I actually said</em>, you will find no mention whatsoever
    of infringing on the rights of citizens to keep and bear Arms; let's try to stay
    on subject."
  created: '2005-06-28 14:09:25'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I'm hoping that this ruling's upside is a possible legal attack on gun manufacturers'
    self-serving belief that the average citizen should have access to more and more
    destrucive and efficient weaponry. But the ruling was intentionally very tightly
    defined as \"...with the object of promoting its use to infringe copyright.\"
    The linking of the two (guns and filesharing) may make conceptual sense, but probably
    makes less legal sense. Also, the argument that will most likely be used to dismantle
    an attack on gun manufacturers: ownership of guns has its own Amendment*. Whereas
    filesharing (or its conceptual equivalent) does not. Though the ninth Amendment**
    would be the obvious retort, I suppose.\r\n\r\nAs for the case specifically, I'd
    posit that it's not a matter of valuing one over the other, <em>per se</em>, but
    a matter of one being a scary new technology that affects commerce in new and
    unfamiliar ways (to those involved in the legal battle), whereas the other is
    a long-entrenched political thicket. From my understanding, Grokster really got
    nailed because they were foolish with their self-promotion. They made it clear
    enough that violating copyright law through filesharing with Grokster was part
    of its purpose. If they'd been more mindful (as Apple is with its iPod), they
    probably would've been able to at least stage a stronger counter-attack. I understand
    the danger of the ruling, but I'm not sure I disagree with the specific instance
    that spawned it.\r\n\r\n*\"<em>A well regulated Militia, being necessary to the
    security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall
    not be infringed.</em>\"\r\n\r\n**\"<em>The enumeration in the Constitution, of
    certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by
    the people.</em>\""
  created: '2005-06-28 14:11:29'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "What !?\r\n\r\nI was implying that gun manufacturers don't matter. It's a
    matter of personal responsibility. I know 'personal responsibility' has fallen
    out of vogue, is that why the snide remark? Its the people who get the guns off
    the street you have to worry about.\r\n\r\nWhy not attack the intellectual with
    the one word remark? A lot of thought there."
  children:
  - author:
      name: DubWise
    body: "\"If fonts are outlawed, only outlaws will have fonts\"\r\n\r\n\"I'll give
      up my sans serif when you pry it from my cold dead hand\"\r\n\r\n\"You can have
      my wife, my dog, but my serif? NEVER!\""
    created: '2005-06-29 13:59:11'
  created: '2005-06-28 14:23:11'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Eric,\r\n\r\nOnce again you are changing the subject: nobody said anything
    about getting guns off the streets. The question was about where the responsibility
    (or blame) for the use or misuse of technology starts and ends. Crugen's comment
    addressesd that topic, and did so intelligently.\r\n\r\nAnd exactly who is \"the
    intellectual\" to whom you refer, and what was \"the one word remark\"?"
  created: '2005-06-28 15:06:42'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "<em>Are gun manufacturers any less liable for what purchasers of guns do
    with their products</em>\r\n\r\nNo. Namely because the gun lobby has managed to
    pass laws in their favor preventing any serious lawsuits against them. ;o)\r\n\r\n(But
    yea, I was thinking the same thing too...is a type designer now liable if someone
    uses your typeface for a hate-speech poster? Ransom note? Death threat?)\r\n\r\nSo,
    RIAA has more money = they win any argument.\r\n\r\nTo be fair, I think the judges
    were pretty specific...the software developer is liable *if* they market the product
    as a tool for infringing copyrights. So, it would seem to me that they just can't
    explicitely say 'buy this to steal music' and they're OK.\r\n\r\nHOWEVER, this
    allows the term 'copyright infringement' to eventually encompass anything. If
    the RI/MPAA have their way, just the act of watching someone else's TV will give
    you 20 years with no chance of parole.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 15:29:29'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "1st reply. \"...one word, money\" \r\n\r\n I'll take me leave, I was a little
    off topic, but I was going for the heart of the matter.\r\nThanks for understanding\r\n_"
  created: '2005-06-28 16:46:13'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Eric,\r\n\r\nI suppose we all have our \"hot buttons,\" and the way the topic
    was presented may have pushed yours. Sorry: that wasn't the intent.\r\n\r\n<strong>aluminum:
    <em>\"this allows the term \u2018copyright infringement\u2019 to eventually encompass
    anything. If the RI/MPAA have their way, just the act of watching someone else\u2019s
    TV will give you 20 years with no chance of parole.\"</em></strong>\r\n\r\nOne
    would hope things don't get that far out of hand, but how about this: I was reading
    the latest issue of <em>Wired</em> this morning and was surprised to learn that
    someone actually owns a copyright to the song \"Happy Birthday to You,\" and that
    the copyright doesn't expire until 2030. If you're a strict-letter-of-the-law
    person, this means that, if you want to sing the song at a six-year-old's birthday
    party (which constitutes a public performance, you really ought to obtain (and
    pay for) clearance from ASCAP. And if you videotape the performance? Another fee
    for another clearance. Kinda scary."
  created: '2005-06-28 17:08:08'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Yeah, and everybody stop using GIFs. CompuServe is going to come after you.
    All of you!\r\n\r\nThe funniest thing, to me, is how much old-school minds (in
    the entertainment industry) try to twist and contort everything around them to
    avoid the winds of change, instead of grabbing on to the tail of this ship that's
    riding the jet stream and profiting in a different way (like preventing their
    CDs from being copied to iPods). Young media companies/execs who aren't afraid
    of changing their business model will eventually stomp all over the old behemoths,
    if the behemoths don't start to integrate change.\r\n\r\nWhatever. Eventually
    it'll either A) change as a means of survival or B) become so draconian as to
    be ridiculous and then change anyway for pretty much the same reasons. The cat's
    out of the bag. To paraphrase something I once heard: trying to take something
    off of the internet is like trying take pee out of a pool.\r\n\r\nAs for the gun
    thing, to sue the manufacturers you'd have to show that they intend for the weapon
    to be used illegally, and since wounding and killing isn't illegal, just murder
    and assault, you'd be hard pressed to make a case. It's got little to nothing
    to do with \"personal responsibility\" (a term that sounds great until you put
    it into practice, kind of like \"corporate accountability\"). It's about intent.
    You'd have to come up with internal documents akin to those used in the cases
    against the tobacco industry."
  created: '2005-06-28 17:34:37'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "<em>to avoid the winds of change</em>\r\n\r\nThat pretty much sums it all
    up. The industry would rather litigate the industry into the form they want rather
    than listen to and accomodate the market.\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-28 21:55:25'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'aluminum, your question about whether or not, by extending the tortured logic
    of the music industry''s argument, a type designer might be held accountable for
    the uses of his/her typeface is an interesting one. Hate mail is one possibility,
    but I would like to suggest another: what if someone designed a typeface and named
    it "Bomb Threat." Then, what if someone actually <em>did</em> make a bomb threat
    using that typeface. By choosing the name, did the designer encourage the behavior?'
  created: '2005-06-28 22:45:54'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>what if someone designed a typeface and named it \u201CBomb Threat.\u201D
    Then, what if someone actually did make a bomb threat using that typeface. By
    choosing the name, did the designer encourage the behavior?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    think that the court ruling would allow that sort of tangent.\r\n\r\nI think that
    a typeface called Bomb Threat would be totally doable. There is a <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/10248/linotypekiller-font.html\">Linotype
    Killer</a>. Jonathan Barnbrook named a typeface after the Tomahawk missile. And
    another one after Charles Manson (though Manson was later changed by Emigre to
    Mason)\u2026\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-28 23:01:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Manson was not [primarily] named after Charles.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: fredo
      picture: 110623
    body: " > Manson was not [primarily] named after Charles.\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>I
      remember Barnbrook saying it was, actually, but maybe he left something out.
      \r\nCould You \uFB01ll us in?</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
    created: '2005-06-29 08:55:18'
  created: '2005-06-28 23:48:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'My opinion: People need to start taking responsibility for their own actions.
    Full-stop. And stop hiding behind the clever use and twisting of words.'
  created: '2005-06-29 00:02:06'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Are the people that sell FontLab liable if \"someone\" uses that program
    to make a copy of a font under a slightly different name and sells it for profit?\r\n\r\nIs
    Apple liable if I use Garageband to mix a couple existing numbers and some notes
    of myself into a \"new\" song that scores big and makes me a bundle (I wish)?\r\n\r\nAre
    all producers of blank media liable for the \"damage\" done to record and film
    companies because their products are mostly used to make copies of copyrighted
    media and they \"promote\" that (Is it... or is it Maxell?)?\r\n\r\nThe Supreme
    Court is just what it is: a bunch of old out of time geezers that have been blindsided
    by some overpaid smartass lawyers and who have no idea of what the Internet has
    become: a repository of free bytes.\r\n\r\nMy guess is that Grokster cs have --
    by now -- moved their operations to other parts of this world where the \"long
    arm of US Law\" won't be able to reach them. So who won what?"
  created: '2005-06-29 09:16:11'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Holding gun manufacturers liable for shooting deaths is one chosen court
    tactic at attacking the second ammendment. I'm not sure Eric was off topic at
    all... \r\n\r\nThat said, I don't see any gun manufacturers advertising or promoting
    shooting people - they promote \"carrying\" as a means of self protection. By
    the same token, I don't see Gnutella or Grokster or anybody else promoting the
    sharing of copyrighted materials. What does the Supreme Court see?\r\n\r\nPersonal
    responsibility? What a concept. Reminds me of the woman who sued McDonald's for
    being burned by her coffee. Whoa, you mean coffee is hot and I shouldn't put it
    in my lap and drive? \r\n\r\nOn the topic of the music industry. Look at the iPod
    versus the Walkman. iPod has beaten the pants off Walkman because it embraces
    the way people are consuming music and then makes a profitable (and protectable
    with DRM) business model out of it."
  created: '2005-06-29 13:33:13'
- author:
    name: DubWise
  body: If the record companies truly believe in copyrights and licensing, why is
    it I have to pay $20 for a CD that I already have vinyl of? Didn't I already pay
    for the rights to listen to the music? Shouldn't the CD price be just a few bucks
    just to upgrade the media?
  created: '2005-06-29 14:06:24'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Joe, it's interesting that you bring up the example of the woman and McDonald's,
    as it's one of the most common 'personal responsibility' horror storiest that
    gets trotted out on a regular basis, partially because it was trimmed down to
    its pop-culture news version in retelling and its use for political rhetoric.\r\n\r\nThe
    <a href=\"http://www.centerjd.org/free/mythbusters-free/MB_mcdonalds.htm\">facts
    of the case can be found here</a>. She received 3rd degree burns over 16% of her
    body, burns which required \"hospitalization for eight days, whirlpool treatment
    for debridement of her wounds, skin grafting, scarring, and disability for more
    than two years\". McDonald's also admitted that \"its coffee is 'not fit for consumption'
    when sold because it causes severe scalds if spilled or drunk\".\r\n\r\nThe case
    rested on the idea that A) McDonald's knew that it was selling a dangerously hot
    liquid that was far beyond the temperature required to be considered 'hot' to
    people who were driving B) made no move to warn them in spite of other consumers
    getting burned, and C) had no plans to change the sitution for the benefit of
    the public's safety. She wanted to settle for $20K, but McDonald's refused, and
    she ended up with a sum that was a far smaller % than the false $3 Million often
    repeated by tellers of the story.\r\n\r\nWhile one may still not agree with the
    ruling, the facts shed light on why this case was actually treated seriously by
    the court."
  created: '2005-06-29 14:35:42'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Joe,\r\n\r\nPlease: this is <em>not</em> a Second-Amendment issue. The original
    proposal never suggested taking guns away from people: it simply asked if gunmakers
    ought not be held to the same standards of accountability as software makers,
    <em>if their products are misused</em>. And, no, gunmakers don't promote their
    products as killing machines \u2013 their lawyers would never let them. But if
    you visit any number of gun review sites (which I did out of curiosity), there
    are a boatload of folks out there who will gladly tell you just how effective
    this model or that model is in blowing someone away.\r\n\r\nAnd, in the unlikely
    event that gunmakers <em>were</em> ever to be held accountable for the lives their
    products took or ruined, such liability would be probably handled as a civil matter,
    so the gunmakers would do what the tobacco companies have done \u2013 pay big
    fines, then raise their prices to make their consumers pick up the costs. Then,
    it wouldn't be only outlaws who had guns: it would be only rich guys who had guns.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    let's put the Second Amendment in perspective. The American Revolution was an
    <em>armed rebellion</em> against what a significant-enough majority of colonists
    considered to be tyrannical rule. Thus, the framers of the Bill of Rights wanted
    to ensure that citizens would not be deprived of the ability of unseating any
    future tyranny, should the need arise. But do you seriously think for one minute
    that, in today's world, if a sufficiently widespread movement sprung up to unseat
    the US government by force of arms, that the Second Amendment wouldn't be the
    <em>first</em> Constitutional right to be suspended? Food for thought..."
  created: '2005-06-29 16:08:55'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Very much like freedom of speech, I think it should all come down to personal
    responsibility. Do I have a problem with lyrics of people like 50 Cent and Eminem?
    Absolutely. Do I think the courts have a right to intervene and censor their speech?
    Absolutely not. But I do believe that every individual has an ethical responsibility.
    The problem is the term \"ethical responsibility\" is completely ambiguous because
    it means something different to every individual. \r\n\r\nAmerican laws regarding
    public decency are often defined by \"community standards\" which in itself is
    also an ambiguous term. FCC laws state that that which caters to \"prurient interests\"
    are deemed to be obscene. I think there is a conflict of interest between laws
    like this and first amendment rights. Right now the FCC is bullying television
    and radio affiliates into individual censorship. To me this is an abuse of power
    and starting a ridiculous police state all because of one little nekkid boobie. "
  created: '2005-06-29 16:24:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "On the one hand fast-food coffee & hot chocolate & tea are always prepared
    at temperatures beyond what we would do at home so it will stay warm longer. Most
    people know this. <em>However</em>, in the case of the woman receiving burns,
    I'm glad that McD's has taken responsibility of their negligence to make the consumer
    aware by posting on their drive through window a notice. (No doubt in response
    to the afore-mentioned case.)\r\n\r\nSlight switch: There is a forum whose users
    all seem to use bit-torrent or something similar to share large volumes of fonts.
    Absolutely insane, really. But, the software can't be blamed for the use. On the
    other hand the ISP hosting these pirates should be held responsible, especially
    after receiving multiple warnings. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-29 16:35:29'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "oldnick wrote:\r\n<em>...The American Revolution was an armed rebellion against
    what a significant-enough majority of colonists considered to be tyrannical rule.
    Thus, the framers of the Bill of Rights wanted to ensure that citizens would not
    be deprived of the ability of unseating any future tyranny, should the need arise.
    But do you seriously think for one minute that, in today\u2019s world, if a sufficiently
    widespread movement sprung up to unseat the US government by force of arms, that
    the Second Amendment wouldn\u2019t be the first Constitutional right to be suspended?
    Food for thought\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nYes, it is a scary thought. I'm not a gun owner,
    so I'm not worried about anyone taking mine away. (I'm also in favor of strong
    restrictions on assault weapons.) I'm glad you're mentioning the historical reason
    that it's in the US constitution. That's the same rationale that has some people
    buying guns, not giving up their guns.\r\n\r\nThe bottom line for me, is this:
    \r\nhttp://www.bustedtees.com/product.php?name=secondamendment\r\n\r\n=)"
  created: '2005-06-30 19:03:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "<em>the software can\u2019t be blamed for the use...ISP hosting these pirates
    should be held responsible</em>\r\n\r\nShould the phone company be responsible
    for allowing people to commit fraud via the phone? "
  created: '2005-06-30 19:37:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Darrel, I do think that if the phone company/ISP has been told, repeatedly,
    that they are supporting a felon and they continue to ignore the information,
    they should be held responsible.
  created: '2005-06-30 19:46:26'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'Wired article on Bit-Torrent: http://www.wired.com/news/digiwood/0,1412,68046,00.html?tw=wn_tophead_2'
  created: '2005-06-30 20:09:22'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Joe,  I suppose the article goes to prove that, for all the benefits of our
    too-much-information age, there are downsides as well. Two things in Bram Cohen's
    favor: his story certainly has all the earmarks of <em>plausible deniability</em>,
    and context really <em>is </em>important.\r\n\r\nAnd, Tiff, I agree that a service
    provider who has been told that the service is being abused ought to take steps
    to end the abuse, and ought to be held accountable if they don't. Unfortunately,
    service providers generally get paid for providing their service, so they have
    an economic disincentive to drive customers off. Business is business, and I am
    afraid that the way you can induce a company to change the way they do business
    is to convince them that it will be more costly for them to continue their present
    course than to change it, and that's not always (or ever) easily accomplished."
  created: '2005-06-30 20:30:59'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I don't know, NIck. Most service providers, in my experience, don't care
    much about individual customers. They wouldn't think twice about loosing one or
    two \"bad apples\" if it protected bigger business issues (like no bad publicity).\r\n\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-06-30 21:43:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I can't disclose the details, but some associates of mine were recently successful
    in shutting down an online font sharing site. Definitely a good thing.
  created: '2005-06-30 23:15:56'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Dan,\r\n\r\nThe critical detail in your comments is \"<strong>most</strong>
    service providers...\" I would counter that the incredible number of ISPs willing
    to host the most obnoxious/vile/disgusting websites (yes: the comments is terribly
    judgmental, and it's all a matter of taste) might lead one to the conclusion that
    bad publicity doesn't really bother them. But, if you can convince their customers
    to jump ship, their tune might change..."
  created: '2005-07-01 00:51:01'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: but what are obnoxious, vile and disgusting aren't always illegal. i think
    dan and i are stressing the support of illegal sites that are also obnoxious,
    vile and disgusting.
  created: '2005-07-01 00:53:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'An interesting type question. Guns, e.g. have many more uses than killing
    innocent people and while killing innocent people is (generally considered), far
    more hurtful to Soc. than (c) infringement, Grokster el al have no other purpose
    than endangering, and stealing artists rights, while just about everyone knows,  in
    a pinch, a gun can make punctuation or ornaments. '
  created: '2005-07-01 12:56:34'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "The worst pirating app isn't Bittorrent, or Napster, it's TCIP. Maybe the
    Supremes should take a look at Cisco, and rule against some of their routers.
    They are facilitating this horrible problem too. Who's responsible for this &@$#
    internet thing anyway? Let's get that guy.\r\n\r\nIn all seriousness, though.
    I would be really sad if someone decided that Bittorrent should be illegal. It's
    really helpful for people with great content who don't have a fat wallet to pay
    for everyone to download their stuff when it goes viral. I downloaded a 2.4 GB
    file from the South by Southwest music festival [read: non-infringing] a few months
    ago that I never could have gotten without p2p."
  created: '2005-07-01 22:04:18'
- author:
    name: anticowboyism
  body: "There is a puposefully vague statement in that ruling that pretty much allows
    the court to find any distributor liable:\r\n<strong>\"\u2026or other affirmative
    steps taken to foster infringement\u2026\"</strong>\r\nWho defines these affirmative
    steps? The court. So basically they just say whatever you were doing was an affirmative
    step, and then you are guilty.\r\n\r\nYet another reason we cannot let Bush pack
    the Supreme Court with whoever he wants. Republican or Democrat, you have to agree
    that it is detrimental to democracy."
  created: '2005-07-02 17:16:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Democracy? You mean the best weapon in Capitalism's arsenal, the one that
    can most quickly replace cultural identity with the basest desires of mankind?
    Think about why these villans you -rightly- detest value Democracy so much...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-02 19:16:00'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Yet another reason we cannot let Bush pack the Supreme Court with whoever
    he wants. Republican or Democrat, you have to agree that it is detrimental to
    democracy.\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat was the reason?"
  created: '2005-07-03 02:02:41'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Not sure that Bush's choice would play a big role here. This decision was
    9\u20130. All judges were agreed.\r\n\r\nThat was what surprised me most about
    this decision. Not the outcome, but the unanimity.\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-04 09:57:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "<em>What was the reason?</em>\r\n\r\nA vehement policy that gives preferential
    treatment to corporate interests over individual's rights.\r\n\r\nThe court case
    is being made out to be bigger than it is. The decision was clearly aimed at companies
    that sell software using the 'sales pitch' that you can infringe copyrights with
    it.\r\n\r\nSo, if sony started selling VCRs with the ad campaign 'make copies
    of your DVDs and sell them on the streets of New York' then they'd be liable.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, traditionally, the courts have either simply not understood new technologies
    and how they should be handled, or the MP/RIAA simply have so much money that
    they can win any argument simply through bigger/better lawyers. Bush, himself,
    doesn't necessarily play a big role (though he hasn't stopped things like the
    FCC from becoming simple Corporate assistants), but folks like Orrin Hatch are
    the HUGE problem. "
  created: '2005-07-05 16:42:29'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: You know, thats what I suspected. Anticowboyism is just injecting bush hate
    wherever he can. Relevant or not.
  created: '2005-07-05 16:53:51'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "<em>In all seriousness, though. I would be really sad if someone decided
    that Bittorrent should be illegal.</em>\r\n\r\nYes. I agree. I also agree that
    it probably won't happen. In a similar vein, you could consider FontLab. Some
    people use it in an illegal way, but you couldn't blame the FontLab boys for this.
    Again, it all goes back to personal responsibility, personal HUMAN responsibility.
    That is why I think ISPs should be held responsible once informed of the illegal
    activity."
  created: '2005-07-05 17:30:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "<em>That is why I think ISPs should be held responsible once informed of
    the illegal activity.</em>\r\n\r\nThe problem is what is 'illegal' is being vaguley
    defined much of the time in the realm of digital copyright issues. Most ISPs will,
    indeed, shut down any illegal going-ons. But, at the same time, they do have a
    right, and expectation, IMHO, to provide a level of privacy for their customers
    as well. Also, when the RIAA is out their making incredibly outrageous lawsuits,
    I can see why larger ISPs would be less inclined to take them seriously. "
  created: '2005-07-05 18:03:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Darrel, I don't disagree that larger ISPs should be able to allow their customers
    privacy. But, don't you think that they should research it to see if in fact the
    claims are real? If the claims aren't real then the so-called threat is bogus
    anyway.
  created: '2005-07-05 18:13:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/americas/4730251.stm\r\nPeople, the law is about
    money, not justice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-30 17:32:02'
- author:
    name: mb
  body: "<em>f the record companies truly believe in copyrights and licensing, why
    is it I have to pay $20 for a CD that I already have vinyl of? Shouldn\u2019t
    the CD price be just a few bucks just to upgrade the media?</em>\r\n\r\nrecord
    companies thought vinyl would essentially die out with the advent of the cd, and
    so re-released artists' entire back catalogues on cd to make some more money and
    revive flagging sales.\r\n\r\nthe opposite seems to be happening now - vinyl is
    becoming trendy again, with picture disks, limited edition 7\" (or 9\" if you're
    9inch nails) and back-catalogue items sitting on most large chain stores. and
    over here in the uk, it's often cheaper to buy the cd than the vinyl. for instance,
    at hmv one can purchase the cd of british sea power's \"open season\" fo 8.99,
    or the vinyl for 12.99. "
  created: '2005-07-30 22:13:34'
date: '2005-06-28 12:41:04'
node_type: forum
title: File-sharing Felons!

---
