---
author:
  name: oldnick
  picture: 109434
body: "Civilized discussions require civilized rules. We call these little gatherings
  <strong>forums</strong> in part, I suppose, because they are patterned after the
  <em>fora</em> (the correct Latin plural, for what it's worth) that existed at the
  heart of Roman towns. They began as marketplaces, like the Greek <em>agora</em>,
  but gradually evolved into each town's civic center. The most famous of these was,
  of course, The Forum in Rome proper. Here, the great orators of the Republic and
  the early empire presented their cases directly to the people.\r\n\r\nThe great
  Roman orators developed a wide range of techniques in order to present their arguments
  forcefully, and these techniques form the basis of the art/science we know as rhetoric.
  When the goal was frank and open discussions of a topic, the techniques were straightforward
  and direct; when the goal was winning an argument, period, the techniques were often
  underhanded and well disguised. One of the orators' most forceful (and enduring)
  tricks was the <em>argumentum ad hominem</em>, in which an opponent's arguments
  were sidestepped, and his character was attacked. Most if not all of us are familiar
  with this phenomenon: today, we call it \"trash talking\" or \"politics as usual
  in the US of A.\" One should note that, however effective this technique has proven
  in the political arena, within the confines of formal debate it is considered a
  <strong>logical fallacy</strong>, and therefore weakens--rather than strengthens--the
  argument of the person employing it. Calling someone else\u2013or his or her ideas\u2013stupid,
  explicitly or implicitly, doesn't make you any smarter or your ideas any better...ever.\r\n\r\nWe
  are all, to one degree or another, ignorant. Ignorance is no shame. We are <em>all</em>
  born ignorant;  ideally, we become less so as we grow and learn. In these forums,
  we can have a frank exchange of ideas; we can share\u2013when we can--the knowledge
  we have gained; and we can learn from others who have gained other, different knowledge.
  Let's keep it positive."
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Even though it's cool to see more than the typo side of the various personalities
    here, very cool actually, arguements made with an 'opponent' in mind usually seem
    to forget that there maybe 50 other readers on the thread and consequently are
    less useful to the rest of us.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand it's unlikely that flames
    will ever be completely avoided. When I have read a thread that has descended
    into a flame war I often just go read something else or shake my head. \r\n\r\nI
    wonder what if anything can be said in a thread to cool things off. I imagine
    if I was in a flame war & somebody wrote \"Let's keep it positive.' I might find
    that irritating.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, an ounce of prevention is worth a pound
    of cure...\r\n\r\nSo for what it's worth, Oldnick, I agree with your thrust!"
  created: '2005-06-29 20:57:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I agree with the core of your argument - even though sometimes I fail.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing I myself would elaborate on is your \"a frank exchange of ideas\". Civility
    is a means to enable this; it does not make up for having selfish intentions in
    frequenting a place. The grand old \"Ask not what...\" To me at least, good intentions
    are the foundation of any healthy society.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-29 21:48:17'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Hrant, selfish motives are always with us, frail humans that we are. They
    may be a weakness, but they are the most common weakness there is, so <strong>no
    one</strong> can be faulted for having them. And, although it has often...perhaps
    <em>too</em> often...been said that "The Road to Hell is paved with good intentions,"
    I think that the fast track to Hell is paved entirely without them. Good intentions
    don't always yield <em>good</em> results, but bad intentions almost always yield
    <em>bad</em> results. To my find, trying and failing occasionally is a lot more
    admirable, commendable and estimable than never trying at all. But that's just
    my opinion...
  created: '2005-06-29 23:37:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I think Nick's notion to talk about rhetoric is a good one, but I think he
    makes a couple of misleading statements about the history and nature of rhetoric.
    The western rhetorical tradition begins with the Greeks, not the Romans, and most
    of the technical terminology of formal rhetoric is Greek not Latin. Interestingly,
    the <em>argumentum ad hominem</em> seems to be an exception, suggesting that this
    regretable addition to rhetoric might have been a Roman contribution, or at least
    more widely practised by the Romans than the Greeks. And it is regretable, but
    I'm not sure that I would classify it as a logical fallacy. A logical fallacy
    is a flaw in a logical argument that is independent of the truth of the argument,
    a kind of architectural flaw in the structure of the argument. The <em>argumentum
    ad hominem,</em> at least as recently practiced on Typophile, seems to me less
    of a flaw in the logic of an argument than an outright abandonment of an argument
    in favour of mere insult. The <em>argumentum ad hominem</em> as logical fallacy
    would be something along the lines of 'X cannot equal Y, as you claim, because
    you're an idiot'. Simply saying 'You're an idiot' doesn't even rise to the level
    of a logical fallacy: it is just an absence of charity.\r\n\r\nWhat may be termed
    'political rhetoric' -- the form of rhetoric we encounter most often through our
    various media -- tends to what would have been considered sophistry by the Greeks;
    that is, it seeks to persuade according to an agenda, which may or may not have
    any interest in truth; it may not even reflect what the sophist actually believes.
    The sophists were criticised and condemned by Sokrates, Plato, Aristotle, Isokrates
    and others, but their influence on political rhetoric is observable throughout
    subsequent history. The notion that one can persuade people of what is advantageous
    to oneself is compelling. The sophistic understanding of rhetoric is as <em>techne,</em>
    a technical method (to achieve an end).\r\n\r\nAlthough sophism stands condemned,
    rhetoric itself does not. There is a hermeneutic tradition of rhetoric in which
    the tools of rhetorical persuasian are put at the service of a mutual search for
    truth. There is a funny exchange in <em>A century of philosophy</em> in which,
    over several pages, Riccardo Dottori asks the late Hans Georg Gadamer about various
    aspects of philosophy, particularly ethics, to all of which Gadamer replies 'That
    too is rhetoric'. For Gadamer, seemingly all of philosphy comes down to this hermeneutic
    rhetoric through which two people go in search of the truth or, at least, of deeper
    understanding, through the process of conversation. To identify ethics with rhetoric
    is, obviously, to be talking about something other than the sophistic or political
    rhetoric of persuasian to advantage. Rhetoric, understood in this sense, is an
    ethical and social <em>praxis,</em> rather than the <em>techne</em> of the sophist.
    Rhetoric is practical, but understanding this requires a classical appreciation
    of the difference between practical and technical, and the association of the
    practical with <em>phronesis</em>, practical wisdom. Our modern notions of rhetoric,
    which are almost entirely sophist and negative (to the degree that we often <em>accuse</em>
    someone of employing rhetoric), erase the distinction between the practical and
    the technical, debasing the practical to the pragmatic.\r\n\r\nThe key to this
    kind of hermeneutic and practical rhetoric is charity, which means, among other
    things, that the <em>argumentum ad hominem</em> has no place in it."
  created: '2005-06-30 04:35:25'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'By the way, I also have some disagreement with Nick''s opening assertion:
    ''Civilized discussions require civilized rules.'' Civilised rules are what we
    require in the absence of civility; rules compensate for inadequate civility.
    And civility itself is often a poor substitute for what really benefits discourse,
    which is intellectual charity. Civility might mean nothing more than not telling
    the person you despise that you despise him, or not telling the person you consider
    an idiot that you think he is an idiot. The philosophical principle of charity,
    in which we suspend our prejudices in order to comprehend new ideas, is at its
    core a methodological principle -- a means to understanding, from which more accurate
    criticism can be made --, but it also fosters charity toward the Other, and this
    is part of the social praxis of rhetoric. Yes, these things can be addressed through
    rules, but if there is a human commitment to charity or, if charity is beyond
    us, to civility, then the rules are redundant.'
  created: '2005-06-30 07:28:46'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "<em>Ad hominem</em> arguments and uncivil behaviour are not the only evil
    that may harm discourse. You can argue correctly and politely, within the agreed
    rules, and still damage the fruitful exchange of ideas. Just look at two lawyers
    scoring points off each other. They are not interested in the other side's views
    and ideas, except to discredit them or turn them against their opponent. They
    only want to win. That is their job. That sort of argumentation is just as unwelcome
    as slinging insults or provoking a shouting match.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-30 12:36:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Great posts, John.
  created: '2005-06-30 13:41:02'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Thanks, John, for the clarifications and historical background. I didn't
    mean to suggest that rhetoric began with the Romans, but since the word \"forum\"
    is Roman/Latin in origin, it seemed like a logical place to start. And, please
    note that I said that the <em>argumentum ad hominem</em> is considered a logical
    fallacy \"in formal debate\": that is, in debating contests, judged by a set of
    rules (Google <em>ad hominem</em> and see what you get).\r\n\r\nGlyn, I agree
    with what you say, but there are some instances when winning an argument <em>is</em>
    important. For example, in high school chemistry class, we did an experiment:
    teams of two lab partners each were given ten drops of a solution, and a detailed
    set of instructions of things we were to do to the solution. If we followed all
    of the steps correctly, we would end up with table salt; if we faltered along
    the way, we would end up with caustic soda. The only method available for testing
    our end product was to taste it. If we followed the plan, the result was a familiar
    savory sensation; if not, the result was a badly burned tongue.\r\n\r\nIn that
    particular instance, if partners diverged in their opinions as to what the instructions
    meant or if an operation had been performed properly, it was a matter of some
    importance that the correct opinion prevail. Here, in these forums, we are not
    dealing with the same kind of thing: generally, our discussions revolve around
    matters of taste or methods to achieve specific results. In the former instances,
    Thomas Aquinas' observation ought to be respected: <em>De gustibus non disputandum
    est</em>; that is, matters of taste cannot be debated. In the latter instances,
    the tools and techniques discussed here usually afford more than one way to skin
    a cat, or to get from Point A to Point B. In those cases, whatever works for each
    individual is the best method <em>for that individual</em>. Strokes for folks...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-30 14:46:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, it depends on how you use these terms, but I think the basis for good
    manners is respect rather than charity. Charity is more demanding.  In the interesting
    book <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0521292506/qid=1120139933/sr=8-1/ref=sr_8_xs_ap_i1_xgl14/002-8026900-5275267?v=glance&s=books&n=507846\">'Questions
    and Politeness'</a> the authors, anthropologists, identify the avoidance of embarassment
    to the other person as the prime mover of what is considered good manners in all
    societies. \r\n\r\nIncidentally, my memory may be playing tricks on me, but I
    believe the 'ad hominem' argument is already discussed in Aristotle's 'De Sophisticus
    Elenchis', the first book on logical fallacies. \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2005-06-30 15:07:35'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "<em>... it was a matter of some importance that the correct opinion prevail.</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed,
    oldnick, but is adversial argument a good way to achieve this end?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-06-30 17:12:19'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: I suppose it depends on what your definition of <em>argument</em> is. An argument
    can be "a fact or assertion offered as evidence that something is true." Or it
    may be "a discussion in which reasons are advanced for and against some fact or
    assertion," thus making it an argument about arguments. Since the second definition
    posits positions for and against, debate will naturally ensue. Debate can be sedate,
    calm, reasoned, orderly; or it can be lively, spirited, even heated. But the real
    bottom line is, what do you expect the debate to accomplish? If you're after the
    truth (or at least a reasonable facsimile thereof), it doesn't matter who wins
    or loses the debate, as long as you arrive somewhere in the near vicinity of your
    goal. If, on the other hand, the whole idea is to prove that you are right and
    the other guy is wrong, you might be a lawyer or a politician.
  created: '2005-06-30 18:11:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nice summing up.
  created: '2005-06-30 19:25:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Charity <em>is</em> more demanding, but I wonder if we aren't splitting hairs
    a little. It seems to me that respect is charity in a different suit.\r\n \r\nExcellent
    Posts, John."
  created: '2005-06-30 19:38:54'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "The concept of civility (or courtesy, politeness or what have you) may be
    interpreted in a variety of ways, but it all boils down to one simple precept:
    treat other people in the same manner in which you would like to be treated (the
    old Golden Rule thing). Unless, of course, you truly <em>enjoy</em> being verbally
    abused; if that's the case, there are <em>other</em> forums on the internet for
    people like you.\r\n\r\nCharity certainly demands no less of us than civility
    thus defined; in a perfect world, charity would also mean loving other people
    in the same manner in which you would like to be loved. That's a much taller order."
  created: '2005-06-30 19:59:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I wonder if we aren\u2019t splitting hairs a little.\r\n\r\nThe distinction
    between charity and respect is actually important \r\nethically and to discussion
    decorum. \r\n\r\nThe importance is that we are obliged to respect all people,
    but we \r\nare not obliged to be charitable to all people. That is why it is \r\nfair
    to demand good manners from everyone in a public discussion, but \r\nnot fair
    or reasonable to demand that they be equally kind and \r\ngenerous and concerned
    about everybody. \r\n\r\nI could go on about different historical concepts of
    charity and \r\nrespect, but this is probably more information than you want.
    The \r\nbottom line is that it is justified--and in my mind a good thing--for
    \r\na moderator to cut off a person (including me!) who launches into a \r\npersonal
    attack, or to remove such a posting or part of it. But it is \r\nnot justified
    to castigate people in a public discussion for not \r\nbeing more helpful, kind,
    etc., even though these are extremely \r\nadmirable qualities. "
  created: '2005-06-30 21:54:52'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'In a related but not directly related area. As a cyclist and a walker I have
    a rule: If you wouldn''t throw it on the floor of your living room don''t thow
    it on the ground. That means having respect, period  '
  created: '2005-06-30 21:58:35'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "<em>... we are obliged to respect all people, but we\r\nare not obliged to
    be charitable to all people.</em>\r\n\r\nAh. Ok, well I do see the difference.
    I suppose I do my best to not separate the two, but I can see that I am perhaps,
    in reality, more respectful and need to work on the charitable ... by your definition.\r\n\r\nAs
    a moderator here, I have had to shut-down and otherwise removes posts and entire
    threads that seemed to spiral into the gutter faster than a speeding bullet. However,
    I don't enjoy having that amount of responsibility and do depend upon all of you
    to think before you hit the \"post comment\" button. "
  created: '2005-06-30 22:06:02'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Politeness, more often then not, doses water upon the fires of honesty. Sounds
    like a novel concept. I will not miss this opportunity to try it out.\r\n\r\nAdmittedly
    many of us, including myself, has on occassion, abandoned the tools of politeness."
  created: '2005-06-30 23:17:37'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "I haven't been so very active on Typophile for a while. Part of it stems
    from the fact that my day job's been busy. I'm sure the rest stems from my lack
    of desire to participate in a lot of the more interesting conversation topics
    -- seems like they're the ones that turn into ... well, whatever ... the quickest.
    Frankly, I'm no more interested in discussing politics and/or religion than I
    am in making jokes about people's mom, etc.\r\n\r\nAt the risk of turning this
    into a discussion of the merits and demerits of pragmatics, perhaps it might be
    relavant to post (and perhaps someone might actually be interested in) H P Grice's
    Conversational Maxims. Grice of course thinks that many conversations are based
    on ignoring and flouting the maxims. But occassionally I wonder what it might
    be like to be involved in a conversation in which people actually abided by them.
    God forbid. (Please excuse my crappy HTML list.)\r\n\r\n<ol><li><strong>Quality:</strong>
    try to make your contribution one that is true.<ul><li>Do not say what you believe
    to be false.<li>Do not say that for which you lack adequate evidence.</ul><li><strong>Quantity</strong><ul><li>Make
    your contribution as informative as is required for the current purposes of the
    exchange.<li>Do not make your contribution more informative than is required.</ul><li><strong>Relation:</strong>
    be relevant.<li><strong>Manner:</strong> be perspicuous.<ul><li>Avoid obscurity
    of expression.<li>Avoid ambiguity.<li>Be brief (avoid unnecessary prolixity).<li>Be
    orderly.</ol>\r\n\r\nFor what it's worth."
  created: '2005-07-01 00:36:10'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Giampa,\r\n\r\nIt really all depends on what passes for honesty. If someone
    you know is wearing what you consider to be a hideous outfit (poorly coordinated
    colors, mismatched patterns, a style that doesn't suit his/her physique), is NOT
    mentioning this \"fact\" polite, whereas POINTING IT OUT is honest?\r\n\r\nBack
    to Aquinas: matters of taste cannot be argued. You don't like the outfit: that's
    your taste. The other person is wearing the outfit: that's their taste. Who's
    right? Who's wrong? Nobody. Everybody.\r\n\r\nAlso, I would like to add that I
    do not wish to be dismissive, but \"fires of honesty\" is a 100%, pure, USDA bulls**t
    term."
  created: '2005-07-01 00:39:22'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'Thanks, Nathan, for the input. In my humble opinion (okay, that''s a red
    herring: I can be an arrogant boor), the information is worth a lot.'
  created: '2005-07-01 00:41:43'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: ">what you consider to be a hideous outfit ...\r\n\r\nAaahh. Maxims 1b and
    2b are confronted head on. ;-)\r\n\r\nOK, I admit. If <em>every</em> conversation
    held to Grice's maxims, without any flouting, etc. -- my dear god, they'd be boring."
  created: '2005-07-01 00:49:53'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "You hit the nail on the head there, oldnick. The intention driving the argument
    is the important thing.\r\n\r\nOn the original topic of civilised rules: perhaps
    these are needed on a web forum because the natural mechanisms that regulate behaviour
    tend to fail in this new environment. This would be the same as needing rules
    for driving on the road, which is not something that humans are naturally adapted
    for. We do not need rules for walking.\r\n\r\nWhat is special about a web forum
    that makes such rules necessary? We can have heated discussions amongst strong-minded
    people around a table, and this can still be friendly and fruitful, even when
    sprinkled with insults and point-scoring. The same kind of behaviour on a web
    forum does seem to get out of control sometimes. I must say, I have not seen much
    of this on typophile, but I gather from tiffany's comment that it can be a real
    problem.\r\n\r\nBy the way, oldnick, did they really poison students at your school?
    At my school, we just got exciting explosions and stuff.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-01 01:14:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the natural mechanisms that regulate behaviour\r\n> tend to fail in this
    new environment.\r\n\r\nIndeed (although I would quibble about that \"natural\").
    There are three main reasons for this:\r\n1) Lack of gesture. In face-to-face
    communication a tiny smirk can do wonders to express one's true stance. The absence
    of gestures reduces communication, and can allow [certain] people to assume greater
    animosity than there is.\r\n2) The big one: the internet removes the factor of
    geography. People get along better with people closer to their physical environment.
    The wider you cast the net, the more the tension. Now just imagine if the poor
    masses of this earth suddenly had internet access - they'd flame & shame us into
    the ground...  :-/\r\n3) Immediacy: the two points above wouldn't be so bad if
    the damn thing wasn't so <strong>fast</strong>! Think of writing snailmail letters,
    which are much less liable to cause friction, simply because you have a lot more
    time to tone things down, to <strong>control</strong>. This immediacy is closer
    to our raw soul. In the big picture, it is a good thing. (So is #2.)\r\n\r\nThese
    three reasons combine to make one attribute more important than either civility
    or candor: tolerance. You need titanium skin and a cast-iron spine. Without tolerance,
    it's all a sham.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-01 02:12:15'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\n\r\n\r\nguys \u2014  I\u2019m sure you know the novel \u201CLord of the
    Flies\u201D by William Golding (1954): \r\n\r\n \u201Cwhoever holds the conch
    gets to speak.\u201D and behave. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-01 02:51:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here is another set of aphorisms on good manners in discussion, from \r\nthe
    second century. It is from the Jewish ethical classic, Pirkei \r\nAvot (5:17)\r\n\r\n\"Seven
    things mark the crude, and seven the wise. The wise do not \r\nspeak before one
    who is greater in wisdom, nor interrupt the words of \r\nhis colleague, nor rush
    to reply. Their questions are relevant, their \r\nanswers to the point. They speak
    of first things first, and last \r\nthings last. Of things they have not understood
    they say, 'I do not \r\nunderstand.' And they acknowledge the truth. The opposites
    mark the \r\ncrude.\" \r\n"
  created: '2005-07-01 04:15:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">and can allow [certain] people to assume greater animosity than there is.\r\n\r\nFor
    goodness sake Hrant, let it go.\r\nI really don't care whether you dislike me
    a little or a lot, but I can do without the constant jibes.\r\n\r\n>one attribute
    more important than either civility or candor: tolerance.\r\n\r\nThat puts the
    onus on the victim rather than the bully."
  created: '2005-07-01 04:46:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On the tension between politeness and seeking the truth. \r\n\r\nThis is
    a genuine tension, as the anthropologists I cited above point \r\nout in their
    book. Seeking the truth requires clarity and frankness, \r\nbut politeness requires
    not saying anything that might embarrass the \r\nother person. The tactics of
    politeness involves artful ambiguity and \r\nopen questions--How are you?--that
    a person can take any way he or \r\nshe wants. \r\n\r\nSearching for the truth
    in a discussion often involves disagreement \r\nand debate, and it is easy to
    give and take offense when the other \r\nperson's heartfelt opinions are contradicted.
    \r\n\r\nThe standard that has evolved for scholarly discussions is \r\n*relevance*
    to the topic being discussed: contradiction and criticism \r\nare permitted if
    you stay on the issue being discussed. If you stay \r\nrelevant, and disagreement
    over which solution to a problem or side \r\nof an issue is best, then the discussants
    are expected not to take \r\noffense, even if their cherished views are contradicted
    and \r\ncriticised. What is out of bounds by this standard are personal \r\nattacks--attacks
    on the character of the other person. \r\n\r\nBoth the statement of Grice and
    my second century quote emphasize the \r\nimportance of relevance, staying on
    topic, for discussion in search \r\nof the truth. \r\n\r\nThe problem with this
    standard for Typophile is that what we do here \r\nis a mixture of discussion
    of specific topics, and a conversation on \r\nwhatever happens to interest us.
    Thus a thread that starts off with a \r\ndiscussion of one topic can hit on another
    topic, and change course \r\ncompletely, sometimes to the delight and sometimes
    to the distress of \r\nthe participants.\r\n\r\nIf the threads are kept on topic,
    then the chances of people giving \r\nand taking offense is much reduced. \r\n\r\nHowever,
    I for one enjoy the way our conversations enble us to \r\ndiscover new interests
    and ideas from one another, without staying to \r\nthe strict rails of a discussion.
    \r\n\r\nBut this means that we must take great care, especially when the \r\ntopics
    of politics and religion come up, not to engage in personal \r\nattacks.\r\n\r\nI'd
    like to keep the freewheeling conversation of Typophile without \r\nthe rancor
    that keeps popping up, but I have to admit that it hasn't \r\nhappened. \r\n\r\nA
    'new topic, new thread' rule would probably keep things more civil, \r\nbut it
    would be less fun. My solution is for moderators to have a \r\nmuch heavier hand
    cutting out personal attacks, but I must admit this \r\ncreates unpleasant work
    for someone else who is probably also here \r\nfor their own amusement.\r\n\r\nSo
    the only solution seems to be self-restraint, which so far isn't \r\nworking that
    well.  "
  created: '2005-07-01 05:31:51'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I have no problem with the level of discourse I enounter here.\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-07-01 06:09:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Solution\"? Can there be a perfect system? We can surely agree that there
    can't. So I think pragmatism points to taking responsability on one's self (specifically
    here via \"extreme tolerance\"*, I guess like Jesus, Gandhi or something) instead
    of trying to get other people to behave like you want them to. Typophile, after
    all, is not a state; it's more like a smelly, luscious watering hole!  :-)\r\n\r\n*
    Personally the only thing I would censure is a full-on defamation campaign, where
    a person shows up basically to bring down somebody, via bringing down a whole
    community if need be. This, I have been the victim of, in the past.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-01 06:12:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">taking responsability on one\u2019s self (specifically here via \u201Cextreme
    tolerance\u201D...\r\n\r\nI would put the onus on the the nature of the rhetoric,
    not someone's reaction to it.\r\nie, exercise extreme tact. Don't shoot, not shields
    up.\r\n\r\nSurely it is better working principal for everyone to be polite, rather
    than impervious to personal slights.\r\n\r\n>trying to get other people to behave
    like you want them to.\r\n\r\nIt depends whether you're the aggressor, or acting
    in self defence.\r\nSurely one has a right to ask an aggressor to cease and desist.\r\n\r\nYou
    enjoy the rough and tumble of the smelly luscious watering hole, but not everybody
    wants to lock horns, and that's Typophile's loss.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-01 13:05:28'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Glyn,\r\n\r\nI think your point about needing new rules in new environments
    is well taken, as are Hrant's observations on the subject. As powerful and rich
    as written language can be, it can never approach the rich, nouanced level that
    a good old-fashioned <em>t\xEAte-\xE0-t\xEAte</em> can achieve. Emoticons are
    a somewhat feeble attempt at nouance, I suppose, but I tend to find them annoying,
    rather than helpful (my personal opinion, not a judgment).\r\n\r\nAnd, Glyn, no,
    they didn't try to poison us in high school chem lab. I went to an all-boys prep
    school run by the Jesuits. Since the rack and the Iron Maiden had long since been
    abandoned as instruments of compliance by Holy Mother the Church, the Jesuits
    had come up with far more devious ways of enforcing compliance with the rules.
    As the experiment and its possible results were presented to us, noncompliance
    was not an option; as a result, everyone in the class completed the experiment
    successfully, no thumbscrews required."
  created: '2005-07-01 13:18:40'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "As my mother always told me in a kidding manner: Its all a manner of taste
    and your taste stinks. Kidding aside its just good policy to make your point and
    then drop it. You aren't going to change the minds or the cultures of the people
    at this forum. Remember the song \"Lets call the whole thing off\": \"You say
    tomato and I say tamato\u2026\" "
  created: '2005-07-01 13:20:37'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'Let''s be honest: a little conflict <em>does</em> tend to liven things up.
    One need look no farther than noting the popularity of "reality television" to
    confirm that watching mudslinging, backstabbing, double-dealing, and all manners
    of uncivilized behavior have a way of grabbing and holding our attention. However,
    we aren''t eating bugs or building mini-mogul empires here...at least, not yet.'
  created: '2005-07-01 15:43:00'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "OldNick\r\n\r\nIt really all depends on what passes for honesty. If someone
    you know is wearing what you consider to be a hideous outfit (poorly coordinated
    colors, mismatched patterns, a style that doesn\u2019t suit his/her physique),
    is NOT mentioning this \u201Cfact\u201D polite, whereas POINTING IT OUT is honest?\r\n\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\r\nYes,
    if you agree with me your are polite, if you don't you are rude, I mean\u2014
    honest."
  created: '2005-07-01 19:04:17'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I don't think that was the point I was trying to make. Being polite simply
    means being considerate of others; being honest simply means speaking the truth.
    Neither of them has anything to do with agreeing or disagreeing, and one does
    not preclude the other: if I were about to step into an open manhole, it would
    be both honest and polite of you to point out this fact to me.\r\n\r\nThe only
    problem I have with honesty is when it becomes <strong>brutal honesty</strong>,
    not for the sake of honesty itself, but for the sake of brutality."
  created: '2005-07-01 19:22:46'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: I agree, the truth sometimes hurts. Brutality should be avoided.
  created: '2005-07-01 23:18:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have been wanting to respond to what I have been reading here & on a dozen
    other sticky/stinky conflicted threads for a while. The trouble is that I haven't
    been sure of what I thought exactly. I am still not there quite but a few ideas
    have surfaced that I think I might be able to stand behind. At the risk of just
    stirring up more dust to no effect...\r\n\r\nOne, is that I do want to see as
    much participation on the board as is possible. For selfish reasons really. I
    learn alot here & that is wonderful. So while I agree with Hrant that it would
    be great if Jonathan Hoefler* was to hang out & respond to & start tons of threads.
    It probably isn't going happen, he is proabably pretty busy & he may not find
    it too useful - or for whatever reason. He doesn't need a reason. Obviously he
    can & does speak for himself, but my point is that \r\n\r\na. If he doesn't post
    that doesn't make him ( or anyone) a bastard.\r\nb. Insulting him isn't likely
    to help.\r\n\r\n*Or pick any other typo-luminary who isn't here much, I have a
    list of a dozens and dozens I'd like to see here more - or even at all. Too bad
    some of them are dead. :-(\r\n\r\nIn my own defense - it isn't sooo selfish. I
    miagine that we can all afford to learn something more.\r\n\r\nSo to all of us,
    I would ask you to do what you can to encourage participation because it seems
    like we all have far far more to gain that way. If that means not verbally stabbing
    them*, ( despite the fact that maybe they deserve it ),  then that what I am asking
    for. I want to learn. \r\n\r\n*or choose your own analogy I am not wedded to that
    one\r\n\r\nTwo, At the same time, Hrant is right that you can ignore him ( or
    anybody else ) if you want. If he has gotten under you skin you may have on some
    level allowed him to do that. I am not saying it's the 'victim's fault'. I am
    just saying that we have choices about how we respond. Less may really be much
    much more in this case.\r\n\r\nThree, Our good Mr. Pemberton was right when he
    decided not to edit posts. Give em enough rope & all of that sort of thing. We
    can all decide who we want to talk back to and who we take seriously. Maybe there
    are kids on the board but in most cases we are adults here and happily, with trails
    of posts to look at, we can all draw our own conclusions about the authors.\r\n\r\nFour,
    Thanks to everybody here on Typophile. I really appreciate your spending the time
    here.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-02 01:15:53'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Thanks for the thread everyone... someone already said respect and charity.
    I'll add a few more.\r\n\r\n<strong>Humility</strong>\r\nI think a dose of humility
    helps. The most basic kind of humility suggests that we're always willing to learn
    something new, or at a minimum, able to hear someone else's point of view.\r\n\r\n<strong>Benefit
    of the Doubt</strong>\r\nBefore jumping to conclusions, give someone the benefit
    of the doubt.\r\n\r\n<strong>Kindness</strong>\r\n\"A pot of honey draws more
    flies.\" In other words, kindness is a better blanket to wrap your persuasive
    debate with than rudeness, harshness or bluntness. If your aim is to influence
    someone's thinking, try being kind - even if you're correcting them or telling
    them something they might disagree with. Novel idea."
  created: '2005-07-02 01:25:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Joe do you mean Diplomancy? A Diplomat is a person that can tell you to go
    to hell and make you look forward to the trip.
  created: '2005-07-02 11:29:09'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Dan,\r\n\r\nThe way I always heard it was that an Irishman was a person that
    can tell you to go to hell and make you look forward to the trip (and, lest any
    Irish among us take offense, my father's mother was born in Ballyhaunis, County
    Mayo, so I am genaeologically and genetically entitled to tell Irish jokes). A
    diplomat, I have heard tell, is a person sent abroad to lie for his country.\r\n\r\nJoe,
    three excellent points, especially the humility thing: that's probably the single
    most difficult virtue to practice, perhaps more so for bright people, and these
    forums are blessed with a lot of such folk.\r\n\r\nOne more thing I would add
    to the list of attitudes/behaviors that don't contribute anything of benefit to
    these forums are attempts to be <strong>clever</strong>."
  created: '2005-07-02 13:47:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"One more thing I would add to the list of attitudes/behaviors that don\u2019t
    contribute anything of benefit to these forums are attempts to be clever.\"\r\n\r\nVery
    clever :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-02 23:23:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gee, I thought it was : A Politician is the kind of person who would tell
    you Hell is a great place. You would believe him because you know that's where
    he comes from. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-02 23:27:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "My ego was forged in the crucible of my insecurity.\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-07-03 07:03:32'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'I got the diplomat quote from U&LC when it was a large format and Herb Lubalin
    was still with us. The other quote I''ll always remember was: A bore is a person
    who opens their mouth and put his feats into it.'
  created: '2005-07-03 11:27:46'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "According to Ambrose Bierce:\r\nPolitics - A strife of interests masquerading
    as a contest of principles. The conduct of public affairs for private advantage.\r\nPolitician
    - An eel in the fundamental mud upon which the superstructure of organized society
    is reared. When he wriggles he mistakes the agitation of his tail for the trembling
    of the edifice. As compared with the statesman, he suffers the disadvantage of
    being alive.\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-07-03 16:15:03'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Chris/dezcom!\r\n\r\nI am utterly overwhelmed: with just <strong>two</strong>
    brilliantly chosen words, you managed, simultaneously, to...\r\n\r\n(a) slam me
    <em>and</em> my ideas;\r\n\r\n(b) dazzle us all with a display of your rapier-like
    wit (I predict a long and successful career in stand-up sarcasm); and\r\n\r\n(c)
    prove conclusively that \"clever remarks\" contribute absolutely nothing to our
    discussions.\r\n\r\nAwesome, dude."
  created: '2005-07-03 16:42:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "OldNick, I really don't think Chris's words slight you personally or \r\nare
    intended to. \r\n\r\nI believe it was Erving Goffman who said 'the wit is the
    hero of \r\nconversation.' The wit brings some humor and fun to conversation,
    \r\nwhich is no small thing. I appreciate Chris's wit, and think that it \r\nis
    a happy and positive contribution to Typophile. \r\n\r\nRead Chris's eloquent
    and touching comment to a depressed designer <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/6039\">here</a>.
    \r\n"
  created: '2005-07-03 17:21:27'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nI have found myself agreeing with the vast majority of what
    you have said up until this point. Wit is always appreciated; sarcasm--its lowest
    form, according to an old Italian saying--is not appreciated, nor is the kind
    of \"cleverness\" which is only self-serving to the supposed wit, and contributes
    nothing of value, least of all humor.\r\n\r\nIn this particular instance, I believe
    the intention was not to amuse, but to belittle. If I am mistaken in this matter,
    I apologize. If I am not mistaken...what is the Human Torch's catchline?"
  created: '2005-07-03 19:03:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"(a) slam me and my ideas;\"\r\n\r\nOldNick--I never intended to slam you,
    your ideas, or anyone else's ideas on this forum. Forums are meant for open exchange
    of ideas. Perhaps it is my failing to be so tempted to coax humor out of any situation.
    In your case, I will never attempt to make you laugh again because I see it has
    had the opposite affect. \r\n\r\nI apologize for any offense you may have taken
    from my words. Nothing negative was intended.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-03 22:07:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Politician - An eel in the fundamental mud upon which the superstructure...\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!
    \ Good one Paul!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-04 01:30:33'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nI will gladly accept your apology if you will accept mine,
    previously tendered. Despite any seeming evidence to the contrary, I am not a
    humorless old curmudgeon. I have been known to snicker, chuckle, chortle, guffaw
    and even howl at times when confronted with good-natured humor.  In my high school,
    wit was a competitive sport and, although I never achieved the unanimous acclaim
    of my peers as the ultimate practitioner, I held my own during many an impromptu
    circle smirk. I also recognize and appreciate the many amusing points which have
    been advanced by visitors to this particular forum. However, you will notice that,
    when presenting <strong>humor</strong>, the person who posts it either credits
    the source, or says \"I have heard it said...\" or some other method of attribution.
    The <strong>clever</strong> person does not say \"Here's a witty story,\" but
    rather \"I am a witty person.\" In the former instance, sharing something amusing
    with others is like making love; in the latter instance, stroking your own ego
    is like...well, you get the picture.\r\n\r\nMisunderstandings happen: intent may
    not be what it appears to be. As has been mentioned previously, we suffer because
    the page is our stage, and relevant contextual indicators like tone of voice or
    a twinkle in the eye can't be heard or seen in print, emoticons notwithstanding."
  created: '2005-07-04 13:39:08'
date: '2005-06-29 20:07:47'
node_type: forum
title: Forum Decorum

---
