---
author:
  name: parker
  picture: 109663
body: "what do you think? any of you from Mexico - what do you think? (who's the designer?)\r\n\r\nthe
  story from Reuters and AP\r\n\r\nReuters :\r\n A comic book of the cartoon Memin
  Pinguin is shown June 30, 2005. A set of Mexican postage stamps featuring the black
  comic book figure with stereotypically thick lips and a flat nose has sparked off
  a fresh row with the United States where anti-racism activists want them banned.
  Photo by Daniel Aguilar/Reuters\r\n\t \t\r\n\r\nAP:\r\n \r\n By MORGAN LEE, Associated
  Press Writer  \r\n\r\nMEXICO CITY - President Vicente Fox said Friday that U.S.
  activists who have condemned a new Mexican postage stamp as racist should read the
  beloved comic book on which it is based before they make judgments.\r\n\r\n\r\n\"They
  don't have information, frankly,\" Fox said in an exclusive interview with The Associated
  Press.\r\n\r\nU.S. black activists and the White House on Thursday criticized the
  stamp featuring Memin Pinguin, a sort of Jim Crow-era image of a black child that
  has been a cartoon character since the 1940s. The Rev. Jesse Jackson, the Rev. Al
  Sharpton and leaders of other black and Latino organizations have urged that the
  stamp be withdrawn.\r\n\r\nThe stamp is recognition of \"character very loved in
  Mexico and that has absolutely nothing discriminatory about it,\" said Fox, adding
  that he himself has been fond of the comic book since childhood.\r\n\r\n\"And it
  appears to me that it has provoked a great national unity, because those who are
  making opinions from outside don't have information.\""
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The deciding factor is that the new stamps use comic sans with the cartoons.
    ;) \r\n\r\nsee http://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/photo/2005/06/29/PH2005062901675.jpg\r\n\r\nActually
    it is up to those of mainly African descent, not those of mainly European or native
    American descent to call this. So it is not my call, but personally they look
    racist to me. But so are Jesse Jackson and Al Sharpton, whom nobody should listen
    to.\r\n\r\nOf course, I would never say anything controversial or provocative.
    ;)  \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Richard Hards
      picture: 110084
    body: Aren't we <strong>all</strong> of African descent?
    created: '2005-07-05 23:43:43'
  created: '2005-07-01 22:24:24'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\nI don't think: \"it is up to those of mainly African descent, not those
    of mainly European or native American descent to call this.\"\r\n\r\nDo we know
    the culture in Mexico? \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-01 22:34:41'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Tina,\r\nThere have been people of African descent in Mexico for many years
    (since 1522 when a slave of Hern\xE1n Cort\xE9s arrived). Firstly as slave labour
    for the invaders, and after 1829, when Mexico abolished slavery, slaves escaping
    from the north. This is more explanatory http://www.mexconnect.com/mex_/feature/ethnic/bv/vaughnindex.html.
    Perhaps that is who William was referring to.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-07-01 23:56:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Where's the type?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-02 00:03:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think it is clearly up to, in descending order, self identifing\r\n\r\nBlack
    Mexicans,\r\nBlack Cental Americans,\r\nBlack Caribbeans  \r\nBlack Americans\r\nBlack
    Africans\r\n\r\nOther Blacks\r\n\r\nAnd then maybe other folks after that to say
    if they find it offensive.\r\n\r\nPersonally it looked pretty f***ing racist to
    me. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I really like the tintin comic books despite the
    fact that the books are clearly racist, and were illustrated by somebody who seems
    to have had fascist sympathies. I haven't looked into the history too closely
    in this case - so don't treat this as authoritative.\r\n\r\nIn any case, art,
    and especially art from anopther era needs to be evaluated in context to some
    extrent or we will end up with non-stop cultural revolution & no more bloody art
    left. This character was probably designed quite a while ago & I don't have beef
    with the art per se. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand it was almost certainly a bad decision
    to use the character on a stamp series. That is a specific use. I think we in
    the US of A would think twice before putting 'speedy golzales' on a stamp for
    similar reasons. It doesn't matter if it *is* right or not it's a question of
    being sensitive.\r\n\r\nOne other factor to consider in all this is the fact that
    many countries release stamps as a way of earning currency. The stamps are sold
    to collectors for far more than they cost to print & so it's just a way to make
    dollars. It could be that cartoon charcters were hot in that market this year/month
    , whatever so they siad, look, here's this cartoon... next thing you know you
    have an international incident.\r\n\r\n- just my 22 cents"
  created: '2005-07-02 00:25:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Tina, why should what Mexico does only be judged by Mexicans? If the US would
    put out a racist stamp caricaturing those of Central American Indian descent--with
    comic sans!--then should the Mexicans have to shut up and leave it to Americans
    only to speak up? \r\n\r\nI think it is up to the group who might be offended
    to decide on what is offensive. In this case it is black Africans and all of those
    around the world of black African descent, including in the US, the Caribbean,
    Brazil, in Mexico itself, etc. The Mexican government should listen and learn.
    \ "
  created: '2005-07-02 01:08:29'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "http://www.flickr.com/photos/marea_rene/22738023/in/set-24979/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/marea_rene/22738946/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.isopixel.net/images/memin_sellos2.html\r\n\r\nThis
    controversy really turns me on and I don't want to make any harsh commentary but
    I have to speak my mind.\r\n\r\nCertanily we are not as sensitive to racial discrimination
    (specially towards black people) as north americans are because we never had the
    same kind of racial problems and because there is very few black population in
    our country (I think I have seen 5 or 6 black cubans in my life while I was at
    the university and I liked them).\r\n\r\nMem\xEDn Pingu\xEDn has been in the popular
    culture for many years since 1943 (my father grew up reading it) and the original
    idea of the author Yolanda Vargas Dulch\xE9 and the artist Sixto Valencia behind
    it was to reflect the sweet and innocent character of the cuban boys Yolanda met
    while se was in a trip by Cuba. \r\n\r\nBlack people in m\xE9xico are percieved
    as sympathic and ocurrent and this partly explains the choice of a black kid as
    the protagonist of the comic.\r\n\r\nThe stories were a mix of comic happenings
    and a bit of drama that  touched the kid's heart with morality lessons. Mem\xEDn
    was the leader of his friend's \"gang\" on which he always came with the fun ideas,
    the solution to problems and also got the punishments form his mom (Eufrosina)
    when behaving badly, so he was purposed as a role model and wasn't the continual
    center of racist jokes as some could grasp intuitively.\r\n\r\nMy father grew
    up reading Mem\xEDn Pingu\xEDn and remembers it with affection, almost everyone
    whor read it as kids do.\r\n\r\nI think that this sudden interest of some anfroamerican
    organizations towards the things that they perceive as mexican insensitivity to
    their condition is only to get public attention. \r\n\r\nI also think that the
    North American government's claims on the topic (as well many other claims concerning
    our inner matters)are out of place and tend to hurt our sovereignity. \r\n\r\nSpeedy
    Gonzalez and all the WB mexican-on-the-cactus cartoons could be the excuse to
    start an anti latino discriminatio crusade but doing so would show our ignorance
    and miopy towards other people.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-07-02 03:01:59'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "H\xE9ctor,\r\n\r\nthank you."
  created: '2005-07-02 03:13:04'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Think about it, this cartoon of a black boy was a role model for 4 or 5 mexican
    generations.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-07-02 04:00:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hector, I am sure the cartoon was lovely, as you say, and a role \r\nmodel
    for generations.  \r\n\r\nI respect your fond memories of this, but times have
    changed, and \r\nthe way such caricatures are viewed today by those as African
    descent \r\nis relevant to whether they should be made public again and \r\ncelebrated.
    Those doing the caricaturing may be baffled by the \r\noffense taken by those
    caricatured, but I think the groups \r\ncaricatured should be listened to.\r\n\r\nNo
    one questions the right of the Mexican government to make \r\ndecisions about
    stamps. The question is whether it was wise. Do you \r\nreally think that Mexico
    should ignore the international \r\nopinion of those of African descent, if they
    are offended? We live in \r\nan international media world now, and I would think
    that courtesy to \r\nall peoples is a good thing. "
  created: '2005-07-02 04:54:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Hector, I don't know where you live but if you come to Typecom in Manhattan
    you will see white people are almost a minority. I can walk down the street and
    hear at least 3 languages and none of them english. I recently wore a T-Shirt
    that had the word Bangladesh on it and a woman in a deli laughed and said "thats
    my country". All this is to reinforce Williams contention that we are a world
    community and should in a perfect world respect one anothers feelings. I'd be
    curious if any Africans were offended by the stamp.
  created: '2005-07-02 11:26:02'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I find some of these remarks patronising and arrogant.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-07-02 13:28:12'
- author:
    name: armin
    picture: 110197
  body: "Not completely the same, <a href=\"http://www.alamoflag.com/alamoflag/Images/SportFlags/mlb/58301_full.jpg\">but\u2026</a>.\r\n\r\nI
    also grew up in Mexico. And Memin is a ubiquitous character, we don't think about
    it. At least not in an enraged way. To be honest, I hadn't seen Memin in quite
    a few years and when I clicked on Parker's attached image, my first reaction was
    indeed \"whoah\". It is unfortunately a dated image that today would make any
    political correctness detector device \u2013 if there were one \u2013 blow up
    into tiny little pieces because of overheating. I would agree that it could use
    a slight update. \r\n\r\nNonetheless, this is about a context. Mexican culture
    is VERY different, we are not as hung up on this issue. We experience racism in
    different \u2013 and many times more devastating \u2013 ways like Rich vs. Poor.
    In this regard, Memin \u2013 as many other comic book characters in Mexico who
    don't benefit from screenplays in Hollywood nor are their first issues sold for
    thousands of dollars to adoring collectors \u2013 are a \"product\" consumed by
    the lower and poorer class, which unfortunately makes up for the majority of the
    population. Memin, for better or worse, is the closest a kid that can't go to
    school will get to a moral lesson. This character is important to some people
    and it is important regardless of his race. If some US activist group finally
    pays attention to the social discrepancies in Mexico I find it very myopic to
    condemn a stamp of a charicature that means something to a lot of people. \r\n\r\n>
    <em>The stamps are sold to collectors for far more than they cost to print & so
    it\u2019s just a way to make dollars. It could be that cartoon charcters were
    hot in that market this year/month , whatever so they siad, look, here\u2019s
    this cartoon</em>\r\n\r\nTrust me, if you are involved with the government in
    Mexico there are easier \u2013 and more corrupt and violent \u2013 ways to make
    a lot of money. Selling stamps is not it. \r\n\r\nIn the end, I don't think anyone
    in Mexico thought anyone would have gotten up in arms about this, worse things
    have happened in the world and racism. It is a tad unfortunate that the image
    of Memin is so dated and strongly stereotypical. But that's what happens in a
    multicultural world. Live and learn. And don' condemn."
  created: '2005-07-02 14:42:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">this is about a context\r\n\r\nYou are right, Armin. The question is, though,
    whether the \r\ninternational context matters. As I tried to make clear in my
    \r\nresponse to Hector, I think this stamp was completely innocent in \r\nintent;
    the Mexican government had no malicious intent. But you can \r\nbe well meaning
    and still give offense.\r\n\r\nWhen I said that the Mexican government should
    listen and learn, I \r\nmeant that they too should be sensitive to the international
    context, \r\nand the inadvertant offense that might be given. \r\n\r\nIt seems
    to me that the appropriate response when inadvertant offense \r\nis given to a
    group--which it seems might be the case here--the \r\nappropriate response is
    'sorry, I'll fix that', and not \"it's none of \r\nyour business,\" which seems
    to be the message of President Fox.\r\n\r\nIf, say, England, which has little
    Mexican population, had a \r\ncaricature that Mexicans found offensive, and they
    put it on a stamp, \r\nwould it be appropriate for Tony Blair to say to Mexican
    critics, \r\n\"It's none of your business.\" I think not. \r\n\r\nArmin, do you
    think that the Mexican government has no \r\nobligation to be sensitive and responsive
    to the potential offense \r\ngiven to groups outside its borders?  \r\n\r\nI agree
    \"Live and learn.\" It applies both to the US and to Mexico. "
  created: '2005-07-02 16:36:32'
- author:
    name: armin
    picture: 110197
  body: "> <em>Armin, do you think that the Mexican government has no obligation to
    be sensitive and responsive to the potential offense given to groups outside its
    borders?</em>\r\n\r\nWilliam, I do agree that they should, completely. It's unfortunately
    a thorny situation, one that will likely not see much of a resolution."
  created: '2005-07-02 17:17:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "In this discussion I can't help but think of this organization's caricature...\r\n\r\nhttp://cleveland.indians.mlb.com/\r\n\r\n...I
    see this logo quite often, but I don't equate this to the real First Nations people
    I see or interact with on a daily basis at work or out and about. But if I'd never
    seen it before, looking at it for the first time I'd be somewhat offended. \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si  \r\n"
  created: '2005-07-02 17:59:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, you're not paying attention, specifically to \"only to get public
    attention\". Please don't export sensationalistic, manipulative opportunism. But
    of course that's Good For Business\u2122...\r\n\r\nI would elaborate more deeply
    on why the US does this sort of thing, but I've had my fill of reactionary hissy-fits
    this week. Unless of course you push the \"right\" buttons...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-02 19:05:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The Cleveland Indians logo has been the subject of protests by native Americans.
    The USA story most analogous to the Mexican stamps issue is the history of beloved
    and then despised Amos ''n'' Andy show. Google will give you lots on both. '
  created: '2005-07-02 19:08:40'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Diplomatic issues are very delicate topics. For the price on this post stamp
    I assume it is intended for national use mainly, so it is mainly an inner issue,
    but of course this stamps could reach other countries.\r\n\r\nI can understand
    that some people can be offended by this image if they don't know the context
    for it, but it is curious that only north americans are complaining about it.
    Mem\xEDn Pingu\xEDn was very popular in central america as well, where there is
    a bigger black population.\r\n\r\nMaybe a good explanation and an aplogy from
    SEPOMEX (servicio postal mexicano) would be good, but having the north american
    government complaining about this to the mexican government is deffinitively out
    of place.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-07-02 19:18:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Would it be like if the Post Office in the UK did an \"Oor Wullie\" stamp?\r\n\r\n(Oor
    Wullie being a stereotypical po' boy Scots comic book character of similar vintage
    and longevity to Memin.)\r\n\r\nProbably, caricatures don't belong on stamps,
    unless it's a series where all racial/social groups get equal time. \r\n\r\nLet's
    hear it for type-only stamps! (The Dutch Van Krimpen ones are the gold standard.)\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-02 22:10:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The Dutch Van Krimpen ones are the gold standard\r\n\r\nCool! Where can
    we see those?"
  created: '2005-07-02 22:19:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Or Wim Crouwel's dutch stamps.
  created: '2005-07-03 00:50:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I had some of those Van Krimpen stamps in my collection when i was a junior
    philatelist, long before I became interested in type. They really stood out. I
    particularly remember the "4". Yeah, that's all it was, horizontal format, a blue
    (I think) background with a bloody great white "4" in the middle, like a cross
    joined across the top left. There were some others from Austria that also had
    just big numbers, but they were sort of art deco broad-nibbed, outline. Sorry,
    can't put my finger on them right now.
  created: '2005-07-03 01:28:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "OK William, I found the 5.\r\nScroll down and zoom in:\r\nhttp://www.jaysmith.com/Specials/World/World-Europe-Netherlands-Stamps.html\r\n\r\nAnd
    the Austrian ones, which turned out to be art deco, are on page 3 of this link:\r\nhttp://cgi.ebay.ca/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&category=696&item=5594279154&rd=1\r\n(use
    supersize and maximize buttons)\r\n\r\nHere are some German ones:\r\nhttp://ingrimayne.saintjoe.edu/econ/EconomicCatastrophe/HyperInflation.html"
  created: '2005-07-03 01:45:46'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: This is pretty ironic. All of these self righteous Americans, claiming cultural
    sensitivity, and refusing to see anything from outside their own cultural context.
  created: '2005-07-03 05:21:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks, Nick, Van Krimpen''s are just wonderful. '
  created: '2005-07-03 05:58:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "A little more information on the controversy. \r\n\r\nAn activist in the
    Black Mexican community mentioned by TimD above:\r\n\r\n\"One would hope the Mexican
    government would be a little more careful \r\nand avoid continually opening wounds,\"
    said Sergio Penalosa, an \r\nactivist in Mexico's small black community on the
    southern Pacific \r\ncoast.\r\n\r\n\"But we've learned to expect anything from
    this government, just \r\nanything,\" Penalosa said. \r\n\r\nMore on who in the
    US has condemned the character:\r\n\r\n\"The leaders of the NAACP, the Rainbow/PUSH
    Coalition, the National \r\nCouncil of La Raza and the National Urban League denounced
    the image \r\nin strong terms, calling it the worst kind of black stereotype.
    The \r\ncurator of a Michigan museum that collects Jim Crow memorabilia said \r\nthe
    Memin Pinguin caricature is a classic 'pickaninny' -- a black \r\nchild, oafish
    and with apelike features.\"\r\n\r\nHere is the leader of a US national Hispanic
    organization, who is of Mexican ancestry:\r\n\r\n\"Janet Murguia, president of
    the National Council of La Raza, said it \r\nis 'impossible to overstate how appalled
    and offended I am, not only \r\nby the stamp but by the reaction of the Mexican
    postal service.' She \r\nadded: 'Hispanic Americans and all other Americans will
    and should be \r\nequally outraged.'\"\r\n\r\nAdditional information from an Australian
    Newspaper:\r\n\r\n\"Black historians say that caricatures depicting black people
    as \r\nnoble savages paved the way for their dehumanisation and, ultimately, \r\nmass
    lynchings. The caricatures' place in history may help explain \r\nthe strong reaction
    on the US side of the border.\r\n\r\n\"Memin Pinguin's image permeates Mexico,
    where people of African \r\ndescent are rarely seen and almost never heard. Mexican
    television is \r\ninfamous for portraying indigenous Indians and black characters
    as \r\ncriminals or maids, if at all.\"\r\n\r\nChristian, do you include Mr Penalosa
    and Ms Murguia, as well as the \r\nheads of the Urban League and the NAACP among
    those \"refusing to see \r\nanything from outside their own cultural context\"?
    I would urge you \r\nto consider the possibility that instead it is Mr. Fox who
    is so \r\nblinkered. "
  created: '2005-07-03 15:25:12'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Wow. I hadn't been at the computer for quite some time and was surprised
    to find this thread. I am always amazed at what topics you seem to start, Tina.
    Not that you all have been waiting for my opinion, but as an African-American
    male, I think I should voice my opinion.\r\n\r\nBased on the information provided
    by Hctor (and really nothing more). It seems that this character was created as
    a caricature. It also was created with very little understanding of a foreign
    culture. However the connotation, be it positive or negative (i.e. Black Cubans
    being sympathetic) it is still a stereotype. Admiration for the character aside,
    it was a character that was created out of ignorance (in the actual dictionary
    definition of the word). \r\n\r\nThe large lips, the flat nose, the big ears,
    it is indeed no different than the pickaninny dolls and porch monkey stereotypes
    that permeated the old South here in the United States. Cultural context aside,
    it is offensive. For any group to be characterized (in caricature no less) without
    a full understanding of cultural background is just plain offensive.\r\n\r\n\"All
    of these self righteous Americans, claiming cultural sensitivity, and refusing
    to see anything from outside their own cultural context.\"\r\n\r\nChristian, I
    didn't quote you to attack you, but your statement is actually a type of comment
    that I've seen very often. To a degree I understand where you and others are coming
    from, but I have to say that something created out of cultural ignorance can be
    offensive to everyone, and not just the racial or ethnic group that is in question.
    Black Americans have every right to be upset about this because outside of the
    character, it symbolizes a type of \"thought process\" that helps create racism,
    bigotry and discrimination.\r\n\r\nWilliam, I understand your comments about Jesse
    Jackson and Al Sharpton. I do however, disagree with you about Al Sharpton. I
    consider him to be an advocate for social rights amongst all people. I'm curious
    as to what you don't like about him or why he shouldn't be listened to. (Though
    of course no one should be listened to completely.)\r\n\r\nHrant, I'm very surprised
    you've been mostly silent in this discussion. If there's ever a thread that calls
    for your passion, its this one. Your restraint is commendable. I also wanted to
    add as a side note to you that even though we've had our disagreements in the
    past this particular issue has ignited a similar fire in me.\r\n\r\nI have to
    say sometimes (and issues like this bring things to a head for me) it gets taxing
    sometimes when I have to constantly ask myself should I be offended by this? This
    has partly to do with America's problem of never really dealing with their \"evil
    stepchild\" slavery. Its treated line \"this happened years and years ago and
    has no bearing on what is going on now.\" It is amazing to me that this issue
    can reopen those wounds...but its pretty easy to do that when they've never really
    healed.\r\n\r\nI'm sure everyone can relate on some level, but I've got to say
    there's something really dehumanizing about seeing an offensive caricature of
    your ethnic group being sold in a toy store. \r\n\r\nArmin's comments I think
    best reflect the core issues of the matter. During this time especially it is
    important to be culturally sensitive and it seems to me to be a gross oversight
    on the part of the Mexican government by not recognizing a major hot-button issue
    with a country which shares the same land mass. "
  created: '2005-07-03 19:09:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">something created out of cultural ignorance can be offensive\r\n\r\nThanks
    for putting this so well. This is one of the main points that those defending
    the Mexican actions don't seem to \"get\".\r\n\r\nOn Al Sharpton, I don't want
    to take this further afield, as this is not a type topic (though it is a graphic
    design one). But just let me say I have never been able to get past Sharpton's
    slandering other people in the Tawana Brawley case, being convicted for the slander
    in a court of law, and never apologizing for the slander. I must say, though,
    that I was impressed with him in the Presidential primaries, in spite of my prejudices
    against him. "
  created: '2005-07-03 20:02:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019m very surprised you\u2019ve been mostly silent in this discussion.\r\n\r\nOff-topic
    tangents are unavoidable and natural. But off-topic <strong>threads</strong> are
    not a good idea as far as I'm concerned. Typophile used to have a special section
    for off-topic activity; to me that went beyond \"constructive venting\" and into
    \"insecure coping\" - a bad thing. Even my second post in this thread was out
    of weakness. This one though is a meta-post, so it's OK.  :-)\r\n\r\nAlso, I do
    not think people who make more off-topic posts than on-topic ones are good members.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-03 21:01:11'
- author:
    name: armin
    picture: 110197
  body: "I couldn't help myself, I had to do a longer entry on Speak Up with some
    more context and research. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.underconsideration.com/speakup/archives/002356.html\r\n\r\nThanks
    for getting me started."
  created: '2005-07-04 00:01:26'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "As I said before, I understand this can be offensive to black people in some
    countries but this has gone too far. This is a post stamp intended for national
    use and it is going to be very rare if you find one of this posted in a letter
    ever. This issue has been magnified by people and organizations with political
    interests. Only until I see other countries with black population complain I will
    consider this as a true matter.\r\n\r\nThere's also the need to understand the
    sensitivity of mexicans to the slightest north american remark on any of our inner
    issues due to the history of our relation with the USA which has by far never
    been satisfactory.\r\n\r\nIf we want to talk about true up to the date racism
    we must not forget the abuse suffered by latin american inmigrants to the USA
    where they are exploded in works no north american citizen would do by a society
    which hipocritically refuses to recognice their rights. This is no cartoon.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-07-04 02:46:44'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "So, as we're seeing here this is definitely a hot-button issue. I do have
    to agree with Hrant and William that this doesn't have anything to do with type.
    \ Generally speaking its usually best to steer as clear as possible from two topics
    that seem to always ignite debate and anger...race/ethnicity and religion. \r\n\r\nWhile
    I agree with some of the points that Armin, Hector and William brought up, this
    just goes to show that each of us come from completely different backgrounds and
    can truly never fully understand the politics and the reasoning for each of our
    individual viewpoints in this type of matter. Unfortunately, it has always been
    that way. If we really could walk in another person's shoes, we probably wouldn't
    ever have disagreements would we? While certainly thought provoking and however
    good the intentions may be sometimes these topics only make people angry."
  created: '2005-07-04 04:40:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">however good the intentions may be sometimes these topics only make \r\npeople
    angry\r\n\r\nMy interest in taking up this topic was to try to see if there could
    \r\nbe some productive discussion on a hot-button issue across cultural \r\nor
    interest-group divisions, which I do think is very healthy.\r\n\r\nMy observation
    is that how people react to conflicting views on \"hot \r\nbutton\" issues depends
    a lot on the standing of the other person. For \r\nexample, Bill Cosby's campaign
    for greater parental responsibility \r\namong poor African-Americans has aroused
    a lot of controversy. But \r\nthere is really not the anger and venom against
    Cosby that there \r\nwould be against another person, because everyone knows that
    he grew \r\npoor, in a housing project, and has given millions to help the \r\nAfrican-American
    community. Whether you agree or disagree with him, \r\nthat he truly has the best
    interests of poor African Americans in his \r\nheart is beyond question. \r\n\r\nI
    don't expect agreement, but hope that both sides, including myself, \r\nlearn.
    \r\n\r\n>understand the sensitivity of mexicans to the slightest north \r\namerican
    remark on any of our inner issues \r\n\r\nI can understand the anger at any criticism
    coming from the United \r\nStates, especially with our current bullying president
    in power. \r\n\r\nHowever, I would hope that people could rise above 'my side--your
    \r\nside' thinking, and just look at what is right. Neither Mexico nor \r\nthe
    US should be above criticism. "
  created: '2005-07-04 15:49:18'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "\"Neither Mexico nor the US should be above criticism.\"\r\n\r\nIndeed."
  created: '2005-07-04 18:44:14'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "<em>Mem\xEDn Pingu\xEDn has been in the popular culture for many years since
    1943 </em>\r\n\r\nI've heard this excuse quite a bit, but don't get it. In the
    40's, we had incredibly racist pop-culture iconography. But we sooner or later
    (usually later) realized they were racist, and stopped using it.\r\n\r\nYou don't
    see the overtly racist Bugs Bunny cartoons anymore, do you?"
  created: '2005-07-05 16:31:16'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Completely unrelated, William, are you hitting return after each line you
    type? Your posts are all coming across as unreadable jagged replies.
  created: '2005-07-05 16:33:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Darrel, I am hitting the shift-return at the beginning of each line in \r\nthe
    composition box. This makes the measure shorter, near to the ideal. \r\nAs the
    font is different in the composition box, the result is too \r\nraggedy, but I
    think it is more readable, at least on my screen, than \r\nlong posts with the
    excessive measure of the current design. \r\n\r\nSometimes I have neglected to
    hit the shift-return after some lines, so \r\nit messes up the concept. I will
    correct the last one, so you can see \r\nwhat I mean. "
  created: '2005-07-05 17:13:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">unreadable jagged\r\n\r\nDude, it's Bill's freaky '60s free-verse vibe."
  created: '2005-07-05 17:31:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "When I post \r\nOn Typophile\r\nIt's like I'm in another \r\nzone \r\n\r\nIt's
    only\r\na part of me\r\nBut somehow it seems like \r\nhome"
  created: '2005-07-05 17:41:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "<em>This makes the measure shorter, near to the ideal.</em>\r\n\r\nFYI, It
    also makes your posts impossible to read if using a fluid-width page (as I am)
    or someone changes their font size.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-05 18:00:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">using a fluid-width page \r\n\r\nOk, looks like I have to relent.\r\n\r\nI'll
    use shorter paragraphs, like two lines each. That will help on readability, without
    running into the fluid-width problem..."
  created: '2005-07-05 18:54:00'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "Or, if you use Firefox, install this:\r\n\r\nhttp://mnteractive.com/archive/tag-teaming-the-fixed-width-web-site/\r\n\r\nAnd
    set your browser to your own preferred width. I couldn't read these forums without
    it."
  created: '2005-07-05 20:35:11'
date: '2005-07-01 21:52:22'
files:
- filename: stamp1.gif
  uri: public://old-images/stamp1.gif
node_type: forum
title: The new stamp. Racist? or Not?

---
