---
author:
  name: Miss Tiffany
  picture: 110563
body: "Alright fellow Typophiles, what are your favorite quotes from famous type designers.
  Can't tell you why, it is a surprise. However, we could also put these in the wiki.
  I'll start:\r\n\r\n\"Anyone that would letterspace blackletter would steal sheep.\"
  [[Frederic W. Goudy]]"
comments:
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '"There are now about as many different varieties of letters as there are
    different kinds of fools." [[Eric Gill]]'
  created: '2005-07-02 16:31:42'
- author:
    name: Mark Foster
    picture: 109627
  body: '"<em>Berthold</em> is still a good typeface, but even <em>Berthold</em> has
    some less than attractive features, and then I just cut them off because I didn''t
    like them." -[[Wolfgang Weingart]]'
  created: '2005-07-02 18:58:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Bodoni would be an admirable letter for a death notice!\"\r\n- [[G. W.
    Ovink]]\r\n\r\nhttp://www.designingwithtype.com/essays/1_2.html\r\n\r\nThere's
    a lot more there too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-02 19:11:17'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "I've tried to find the english translation for this quote by [[Giambattista
    Bodoni]], but without luck I try to do it myself (from the Swedsih book I have)...\r\n\r\n\"The
    letters don't get their true delight,  when done in haste & discomfort, nor merely
    done with diligence & pain, but first when they are created with love and passion.\"\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-02 19:14:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Tiffany, are you sure you have that Goudy quote correct? It is normally cited
    as 'lowercase', not 'blackletter'. Letterspacing blackletter is actually a well
    established convention to indicate emphasis, in the absence of italics, which
    has been practiced in Germany and other countries with long blackletter traditions,
    for at least two centuries.
  created: '2005-07-02 22:08:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "'Continued experiment with dog today' - [[Eric Gill]]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-02 22:09:03'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>John,\r\nI believe Tiffany got the quote all right. \r\nWhen Goudy
    in 1936 recieved a handlettered certificate of excellence set in a heavily letterspaced
    uppercase blackletter, those were the words he uttered.\r\nThe reason why it has
    changed over the years is not as much a mis-quotation as sometimes is suggested
    but rather a sort of evolution. I mean, it has a good punch to it, and lower case
    are easier to relate to. \r\nMy guess, for what it's worth.</strong> \r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2005-07-02 23:00:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Typography has one plain duty before it and that is to convey information
    in writing. No argument or consideration can absolve typography from this duty.\"
    --[[Emil Ruder]]\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-02 23:19:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"After I came up with the idea to write a book that would, I hoped, become
    the standard, a sensation and win me the Nobel Prize for Literature, I started
    to feel uneasy.\" --[[Alessio Leonardi]]\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-02 23:35:45'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "A type of revolutionary novelty may be extremely beautiful in itself; but,
    for the creatures of habit that we are, its very novelty tends to make it illegible,
    at any rate to begin with.\r\n<em>Typography for the Twentieth-Century Reader</em>\r\n<strong>[[Aldous
    Huxley]]</strong>\r\n\r\nType design moves at the pace of the most conservative
    reader. The good type-designer therefore realizes that, for a new fount to be
    successful, it has to be so good that only very few recognize its novelty.\r\n<em>First
    Principles of Typography</em>\r\n<strong>[[Stanley Morison]]</strong>\r\n\r\nType
    well used is invisible <em>as</em> type, just as the perfect talking voice is
    the unnoticed vehicle for the transmission of words, ideas.\r\n<em>Printing Should
    Be Invisible</em>\r\n<strong>[[Beatrice Warde]]</strong>\r\n\r\nIf you remember
    the shape of your spoon at lunch, it has to be the wrong shape. The spoon and
    the letter are tools; one to take food from the bowl, the other to take information
    off the page... When it is a good design, the reader has to feel comfortable because
    the letter is both banal and beautiful.\r\n<em>Keynote Speech/Type90</em>\r\n<strong>[[Adrian
    Frutiger]]</strong>\r\n\r\nWhen we experience disappointment with the relationship
    with letters let's not be afraid to do what come naturally to us: Let's draw.\r\n<em>Graphis
    Typography 1 (1994)</em>\r\n<strong>[[Gerard Huerta]]</strong>\r\n\r\nAs we say
    in Berlin, there are many ways to bake a parrot.\r\n<em>Rhyme & Reason</em>\r\n<strong>[[Erik
    Spiekermann]]</strong>\r\n\r\nYes, I'm old, but I'm back in style!\r\n<em>Typophile
    Forum (2005)</em>\r\n<strong>[[Norbert Florendo]]</strong>"
  created: '2005-07-02 23:39:43'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Tiffany, John and Fredrik\r\n\r\n<strong>\"Men who would letterspace lower
    case would shag sheep\" - [[Frederick Goudy]]</strong>\r\n\r\nI noticed the discrepancy
    in the quote a while ago, so i had looked into it. Thats what I came up with.
    I wonder if there is a definitive source for this.\r\n\r\nI saw some letterspaced
    lowercase the other day. Blarg. I'm sure letterspaced blackletter is equally hideous,
    never tried it, thats a good thing right?\r\n\r\nTiff, I've actually never heard
    that version before. I've heard the ' lowercase would steel sheep.'  I prefer
    the 'sheep shag' version myself, but it'd be nice to find out for sure. It makes
    more sense if you think about it. Other than being theft of personal property,
    what is so disgusting about 'stealing' sheep anyway? So, if stealing sheep isn't
    exactly looked upon as repulsive, the shagging makes a little more sense. But
    I'm no goudy expert. "
  created: '2005-07-02 23:52:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I\u2019m sure letterspaced blackletter is equally hideous, never tried
    it, thats a good thing right?</em>\r\n\r\nThe keynote speaker at the [[ATypI]]
    conference in Copenhagen referred to a lovely typographic metaphor in one of [[S\xF8ren
    Kierkegaard]]'s books. In the original, blackletter edition approved by the author,
    who took a keen interest in the typography of his books, the metaphor relates
    a feeling of existential alienation and disconnection to being l e t t e r s p
    a c e d. In a later edition, typeset in antiqua (roman) type, the typesetters
    interpreted the letterspaced blackletter as italics, as was normal in resetting
    in antiqua from blackletter originals, and then, since the metaphor was now lost,
    actually changed the text. So in this later edition the existential alienation
    was bizarrely likened to being <em>italicised</em>."
  created: '2005-07-03 00:06:24'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "It could be this _\r\n\r\n\u201CMen who would letterspace blackletter would
    shag sheep\u201D - Frederick Goudy\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-03 00:14:20'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: "Of all the achievements of the human mind, the birth of the alphabet is the
    most momentous.\r\n-- Frederic Goudy"
  created: '2005-07-03 01:57:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Yes. Hmm. I think we need to provide bibliographic information as Norbert
    has done. This will keep me from using quotes that are actually mis-quotes. So,
    if you can supply bibliography please do, if not still share your quote, maybe
    someone else will know.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nI've heard that particular quote so
    many different ways that I'm not sure which is correct."
  created: '2005-07-03 02:35:34'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\nThe restrictions of two-dimensional communication appealed to my need
    for structure and my desire to have my work speak for me. The challenge of communicating
    an idea or feeling within the further confines of the Latin alphabet lad me from
    graphic design into type design.\r\n\r\n [[Carol Twombly]]"
  created: '2005-07-03 03:16:33'
- author:
    name: James Grieshaber
    picture: 110551
  body: "This one was used on the TypeCon2001 materials:\r\n\r\n\"We are type designers,
    punch cutters, type founders, compositors, printers and bookbinders from conviction
    and with passion. Not because we are insufficiently talented for other, higher,
    things, but because to us the highest things stand in the closest kinship to our
    own crafts.\" - [[Rudolf Koch]]\r\n\r\nI can't remember the bibliographic information
    on this one.\r\n____\r\n\r\nAbout the Goudy quote - I thought it was \"leterspace
    lowercase\" and \"bugger a sheep\".  But I don't have any bibliographic information
    to back it up."
  created: '2005-07-03 03:23:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201CTypography has one plain duty before it and that is to convey information
    in writing. No argument or consideration can absolve typography from this duty.\u201D
    \r\n\u2014[[Emil Ruder]]. page 6, \"Typographie\", 1967.\r\n\r\n\u201CAfter I
    came up with the idea to write a book that would, I hoped, become the standard,
    a sensation and win me the Nobel Prize for Literature, I started to feel uneasy.\u201D
    \r\n\"From the Cow to the Typewriter\", page 8\u2014[[Alessio Leonardi]]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-03 04:28:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Watching me work is like watching a refrigerator make ice.\"\r\n- M Carter\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-03 05:02:23'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "There is an archived thread on here where [[Erik Spiekermann]] talked about
    the sheep shagging/stealing quote but I can't find it. If I remember correctly,
    he said [[Adobe]] was behind changing \u2018shag\u2019 to \u2018steal.\u2019 There
    is this though.. http://www.spiekermann.com/iblog/C1109747452/ (search for the
    word shag)"
  created: '2005-07-03 05:15:18'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "\"Type production has gone mad, with its senseless outpouring of new types\u2026
    only in degenerate times can personality (opposed to the nameless masses) become
    the aim of human development\" \u2013\_Jan Tschicold; The New Typography; 1928\r\n\"All
    the old fellows stole our best ideas.\" \u2013\_Frederic Goudy; date unrecorded\r\n\"The
    shapes of letter do not derive their beauty from any sensual or sentimental reminiscences.
    No one can say the O's roundness appeals to us only because it is like that of
    an apple or of a girl's breast or of the full moon. Letters are things, not pictures
    of things.\" \u2013 Eric Gill; Autobiography; 1940\r\n\"I fought linotype and
    montype for some time because it would not justify as well as handset could be
    made to do; but at last, as always happens, the machine outdid the hand, and got
    all the best types on it.\" \u2013 George Bernard Shaw; Letter to Ruari McLean,
    28/3/1949\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-07-03 09:48:34'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "<strong>Losing Sleep</strong>\r\n<em>by Ephram Edward Benguiat</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    following passages are taken from an undated typewritten manuscript. It's very
    likely these were used as notes for one of Ed's speaking engagements. There is
    no known date of publication.\r\n\r\n<em>\"To me designing has never been a job
    or profession. It's a way of life, like a priest or rabbi.\"</em>\r\n\r\n<em>\"Doing
    something a long time does not mean you're good. It only means you've done it
    a long time.\"</em>\r\n\r\n<em>\"Doing something and getting paid for it doesn't
    mean you're doing it well. It only means you're doing it.\"</em>\r\n\r\n<em>\"I
    don't think that success is the premise to what is good or bad.\"</em>\r\n\r\n<em>\"The
    contributions that one makes in typography, design, and art in general cannot
    be, and must not be measured on how much money is involved. That would lead to
    total chaos. The word itself (contribution) is to give to a common purpose.\"</em>\r\n\r\n-------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-07-03 17:21:51'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Hey Folks: No k in Frederic Goudy. Sheep stealers!\r\n\r\nJim\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-07-03 19:07:43'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Some of my faves:\r\n\r\n\"People who love ideas must have a love of words.
    They will take a vivid interest in the clothes that words wear.\" - [[Beatrice
    Warde]]\r\n\r\n\"Perfect typography is certainly the most elusive of all arts.
    Sculpture in stone alone comes near it in obstinacy.\" [[Jan Tschichold]], Homage
    to the Book, 1968\r\n\r\n\"Each letter should have a flirtation with the one next
    to it.\" [[Mac Baumwell]]\r\n\r\n\"Writing is not a series of strokes, but space,
    divided into characteristic shapes by strokes.\" [[Gerrit Noordzij]]\r\n\r\n\"The
    most popular typefaces are the easiest to read; their popularity has made them
    disappear from conscious cognition. It becomes impossible to tell if they are
    easy to read because they are commonly used, or if they are commonly used because
    they are easy to read.\" - [[Zuzana Licko]]"
  created: '2005-07-03 19:46:32'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "I found another version of Beatrice Warde's quote and think this one is better:\r\n\r\n\"People
    who love ideas must have a love of words, and that means, given a chance, they
    take a vivid interest in the clothes which words wear.\"\r\n\r\nAnd two more:\r\n\r\n\"Typography,
    a perfect fusion of form and meaning in which beauty is born, is raised from mere
    craft and can claim the title of a philosophy; for it also includes ethics, that
    enobling factor of man's destiny. Thus the printed word is in touch with the spirit.\"
    - Raul Mario Rosarivo, 1951.\r\n\r\n\"Any work of art that makes us feel the artist
    tried too hard lacks clarity.\"\r\nClayton Whitehill, The Moods of Type, 1947"
  created: '2005-07-03 19:57:43'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Some additional info on Erik Spiekermann's paraphrase of Goudy's quote --\r\n\r\nSource:\r\n<strong>Stop
    Stealing Sheep</strong>\r\n& find out how type works\r\n<em>Erik Spiekermann &
    E.M. Ginger</em>\r\nFirst printing: December 1992\r\nCopyright &#169; 1993 Adobe
    Systems\r\n\r\nOn the first page of text, Erik added a sidebar to explain his
    use of Goudy's quote:\r\n\r\n<em>In 1936, Frederic Goudy was in New York City
    to receive an award for excellence in type design. Upon accepting a certificate,
    he took one look at it and declared that \"Anyone who would letterspace black
    letter would steal sheep.\"</em>\r\n\r\nEric goes on to mention:\r\n\r\n<em>You
    might have noticed that our book cover reads \"lower case,\" while here it reads
    \"black letter\" -- two very different things.</em>\r\n\r\nHe then added a small
    sample of CAPITALS, lower case and black letter (printed in black letter) to illustrate
    the difference to the uninformed reader.\r\n\r\nEric continues:\r\n\r\n<em>We're
    not sure how \"black letter\" got changed to \"lower case,\" but we've always
    known it to be the latter; whichever way, it makes infinite sense.</em>\r\n\r\n-------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I don't shag sheep!"
  created: '2005-07-04 03:03:13'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "'If you don't get your type warm it will be just a smooth, commonplace, third-rate
    piece of good machine technique - no use at all for setting down warm human ideas
    - just a box full of rivets... By jickity, I'd like to make a type that fitted
    1935 all right enough, but I'd like to make it warm - so full of blood and personality
    that it would jump at you.\r\n<strong>From Dwiggins fictional argument over the
    modern age of steel and speed.</strong>\r\nWilliam Addison Dwiggins\r\n \r\n"
  created: '2005-07-04 08:31:43'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Googled with \"letterspace sheep Goudy\":\r\n\r\nhttp://www.eyewire.com/magazine/columns/robin/blackletter/\r\n\r\nBlackletter
    it appears to be. Confirmed by Wikipedia (?):\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Frederic_Goudy\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-04 10:59:07'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "[[Helvetica]] is the jeans, and [[Univers]] the dinner jacket. Helvetica
    is here to stay . [[Adrian Frutiger]]\r\n\r\nIn a way, The Beatles are the Helvetica
    of pop; just like Helvetica is The Beatles of typefaces . Experimental Jetset\r\n\r\nIf
    you have no intuitive sense of design, then call yourself an \"information architect\"
    and only use Helvetica . [[David Carson]]\r\n\r\nAnyone who uses Helvetica knows
    nothing about typefaces . [[Wolfgang Weingart]]\r\n\r\nI discovered that I never
    really used Helvetica but I like to look at it. I like the VW beetle, too, although
    I've never driven one . [[Stefan Sagmeister]]\r\n\r\nI have never designed a logotype
    without first trying it in Helvetica. It is still the most versatile, classic
    and readable of all typefaces. [[Steff Geissbuhler]]\r\n\r\nAny good typeface
    can be completely destroyed when misused or extensively overused. Helvetica seemed
    to sustain a beating like no other. Still fresh, still popular Helvetica is king
    . [[Alexander Gelman]]\r\n\r\nThere was once a typeface that had the reputation
    of being more legible and functional than all the others. It was used everywhere
    and for everything, from signs to logos. Then one day readers couldn't stand seeing
    it anymore and decided to stop reading it \u2013 despite its superior legibilty.
    Bit by bit designers forgot about it and it was only used by lay people. Then
    it was rediscovered for a while and in fashion again. Even books were published
    about it . [[Ruedi Baur]]\r\n\r\nHelvetica is the typeface for a deserted island
    . [[Friedrich Friedl]]\r\n\r\nWe hate to like Helvetica . [[Hamish Muir]]\r\n\r\nI
    remember a time at Yale when my work was being critiqued by [[Paul Rand]]. Mr.
    Rand told me only to use Helvetica as a display face never in text, then he squinted,
    leaned in, and whispered in my ear, \"because Helvetica looks like dogshit in
    text\" . [[Kyle Cooper]]\r\n\r\n\r\n(all from the flyer to the book \xABHelvetica
    - Homage to a Typeface\xBB, edited by [[lars m\xFCller]])\r\n12 x 16 cm, 256 pages,
    800 illustrations, hardcover.\r\n--- more infos on www.lars-mueller-publishers
    --"
  created: '2005-07-04 11:16:02'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: Hey, what's going on!? Why hasn't anyone quoted me yet?
  created: '2005-07-04 14:52:53'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "\"I'm also interested in calligraphy and occasional book-burning.\" - Sergej
    Malinovski\r\n\r\n(careful what you wish for... : ) )"
  created: '2005-07-04 14:59:13'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "\"In former times producing a typeface was an effort architectural in scale.
    A typeface was exquisitely expensive to cut. The choice to make one had a you-bet-your-company
    gravity to it.\" - Mike Parker, Bitstream\r\n\r\n\"Set a page in Fournier against
    another in Caslon and another in Plantin and it is as if you heard three different
    people delivering the same discourse \u2014 each with impeccable pronunciation
    and clarity, yet each through the medium of a different personality.\"\r\n- Beatrice
    Warde, 1933\r\n\r\n\"Discipline in typography is a prime virtue. Individuality
    must be secured by means that are rational. Distinction needs to be won by simplicity
    and restraint. It is equally true that these qualities need to be infused wiht
    a certain spirit and vitality, or they degenerate into dullness and mediocrity.\"
    - Stanley Morison"
  created: '2005-07-04 15:09:05'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "\"If you like what you do, and you\u2019re lucky enough to be good at it,
    do it for that reason.\"\r\n\r\nPhil Grimshaw"
  created: '2005-07-04 20:36:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Bring back the old Typophile\"\r\n-- Sergej\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-04 20:38:02'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "I found this in David Jury's About Face: Reviving the rules of Typography,
    2004. It's an anonymous quote and not really about typefaces per se, but I thought
    you'd enjoy it nonetheless:\r\n\r\nEye halve a spelling chequer\r\nIt came with
    my pea sea\r\nIt plainly marques four my revue\r\nMiss steaks eye kin knot sea.\r\nEye
    strike a quay and type a word\r\nAnd weight four it too say\r\nWeather eye yam
    wrong or write\r\nIt shows me strait a weigh.\r\nAs soo as a mist ache is maid\r\nIt
    nose bee fore two long\r\nAnd eye can put the era rite\r\nIts rare lee ever wrong.\r\nEye
    have rune this poem threw it\r\nI am shore yore pleased two no\r\nits letter perfect
    awl the weigh\r\nMy chequer tolled me so.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-04 23:32:56'
- author:
    name: sarahkoz
    picture: 109615
  body: "\"\u2026a work of art, i.e. a thing made by a man who, however laughable
    it may seem to men of business, loves God and does what he likes, who serves his
    fellow men because he is wrapped up in serving God \u2014 to whom the service
    of God is so commonplace that it is as much bad form to mention it as among men
    of business it is bad form to mention profits.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\"I think it is generally
    agreed that picture writing was the beginning of our lettering. You might wish
    to communicate something to someone at a distance. If you have no letters or none
    common both to you & your correspondent, what else can you do but draw a picture?
    \u2014 the language of pictures is common to all. After a time your pictures are
    used to signify words and not simply things, and as the system develops and communications
    become more precise, the pictures become simpler and simpler, more & more conventional,
    and they come to signify single sounds rather than whole words. And the pictures,
    by now, have ceased to be pictures. They are, by now, hardly recognizable as representations
    of things: they are conventional signs, & their pictorial origin is forgotten.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2013Eric
    Gill, An Essay on Typography, 1936"
  created: '2005-07-05 16:47:13'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "\"A typeface is an alpahbet in a straightjacket\"\r\n- Alan Fletcher\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-05 18:42:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think this is from \"Letters of Credit\" by [[Walter Tracy]], but I can't
    put my hand on it at the moment:\r\n\r\n\"A great typeface is not a collection
    of beautiful letters, but a beautiful collection of letters.\""
  created: '2005-07-05 18:49:12'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: I think Matthew Carter said that (Logo, Font & Lettering Bible)
  created: '2005-07-05 18:53:56'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "William, do you have a copy of Walter Tracy's \"Letters of Credit\"?\r\nIf
    not, I can check the quote this evening at home.\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-07-05 18:55:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Norbert, I have it, but I seem to have misplaced it (arrrrghh! as Charlie
    Brown used to say). '
  created: '2005-07-05 18:58:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "My copy of [[Leslie Cabarga]]'s 'Bible' is to hand. On p. 200 the quote from
    [[Matthew Carter]] is \r\n\r\n\"As the saying goes, type is a beautiful group
    of letters, not a group of beautiful letters.\"\r\n\r\nSo Carter felt he was quoting
    someone else. Maybe Tracy?  "
  created: '2005-07-05 19:07:09'
- author:
    name: lorp
  body: "\u201CYou can do a good ad without good typography, but you can't do a great
    ad without good typography.\u201D\r\n<strong>[[Herb Lubalin]]</strong>\r\n\r\nSource:\r\n<em>Herb
    Lubalin obituary, Baseline issue four, TSI Typographic Systems International Limited,
    1981</em>\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-05 21:56:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You have pre-#10 issues of Baseline?!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-05 23:31:27'
- author:
    name: lorp
  body: "This one was \xA32 at the <a href=\"http://www.bookbarn.co.uk/\">Bristol
    Book Barn</a>. It has only 20 pages but every article is very readable today.
    Excellent short pieces on New Johnston, Renault, Usherwood's Caxton, Baskerville
    and Adrian Frutiger. (I give out that Book Barn link reluctantly. On the road
    to Bath, it is a kind of purgatory for books: a cold, depressing place with free
    instant coffee. But you have to check it every now and then.)"
  created: '2005-07-05 23:53:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ' type is a beautiful group of letters, not a group of beautiful letters =
    Tracy'
  created: '2005-07-06 00:12:23'
- author:
    name: lorp
  body: "\"From an early age he loved letters in the literal rather than literary
    sense.\"\r\n<strong>Timothy Rogers, writing of Will Carter</strong>\r\n\r\n\"It
    is a rarer gift to lay words out properly than to write them\"\r\n<strong>Nicholas
    Barker, writing of Will Carter</strong>\r\n\r\n\"The seventies were my fattest
    decade. Overall I think the seventies were distinctly bulbous. People looked chunky,
    typefaces were rounded, writing implements penile.\"\r\n<strong>Will Self</strong>"
  created: '2005-07-06 00:19:14'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "<em>There is a distinct advantage in being a practising typographer when
    it comes to deciding on a new typeface design. There seems little sense in designing
    faces that will not be profitable for the typesetter and it happens too often
    that designers tend to go down just one path as opposed to designing the variety
    of faces needed to ensure a good mix. As a result, their designs tend to look
    too much like each other.</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>Les Usherwood</strong>\r\nArticle
    on release of TSI Caxton (pages 6 -- 9)\r\nBaseline, International Typographics
    Magazine, Issue four\r\n\r\nOddly enough, I also have a copy of Baseline issue
    four. Somehow it managed to survive in my old files.\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I found my Baseline!"
  created: '2005-07-06 02:02:44'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Hello\r\nMy name is German Bold Italic\r\nI am a type face\r\nWhich you have
    never heard before\r\nWhich you have never seen before\r\nI can compliment you
    well\r\nEspecially in red\r\nExtremely in green\r\nMaybe in blue blue blue\r\n\r\nYou
    will like my sense of style\r\nYou will like my sense of style\r\n\r\nI fit like
    a glove - ooh!\r\n\r\nGut ja!\r\nGut ja!\r\n\r\n-Kylie Minogue (said it sung it) "
  created: '2005-07-06 11:09:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Kylie? I thought it was Towa Tei.
  created: '2005-07-06 12:15:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">As a result, their designs tend to look too much like each other.\r\n\r\nThat's
    a bit bizarre, coming from Les. He would go on to reuse the same skeleton a lot,
    doing different serif treatments, etc. After all, that's a productive, profitable
    way to work.\r\n\r\nBut he was right in a sense, in that if his AD clients liked
    the way Flange set, they would also like a version of it with more substantial
    serifs, or more contrast."
  created: '2005-07-06 12:21:46'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: Kylie sang it. towa tei wrote it.
  created: '2005-07-06 14:11:14'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: Kylie sang it so she said it. Towa Tei wrote it
  created: '2005-07-06 14:12:19'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/4654077.stm\r\n\r\na quote from a polititian
    but worth a look it's got ligatures and long s's .... "
  created: '2005-07-06 16:21:50'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Will Burtin, in the Foreword to Ben Rosen's 1963 Type and Typography: The
    Designer's Type Book, says \"Each typeface is a piece of history, like a chip
    in a mosaic that depicts the development of human communication. Each typeface
    is also a visual record of the person who created it \u2014 his skill as a designer,
    his philosophy as an artist, his feeling for... the details of each letter and
    the resulting impressions of an alphabet or a text line.\""
  children:
  - author:
      name: Robert Fripp
    body: And I'm grateful that Will Burtin imported Helvetica to North America in
      1958, just a year after Max Miedinger developed it in Zurich. What a super font.
      Where would we be without it?
    created: '2006-03-16 03:32:48'
  - author:
      name: Robert Fripp
    body: And I'm grateful that Will Burtin imported Helvetica to North America in
      1958, just a year after Max Miedinger developed it in Zurich. What a super font.
      Where would we be without it?
    created: '2006-03-16 03:35:14'
  created: '2005-07-07 11:50:14'
- author:
    name: Alvaro Cuesta
    picture: 131507
  body: "\"La gracia en tipograf\xEDa surge espont\xE1neamente cuando el tip\xF3grafo
    pone un poco de amor en su trabajo. Quien no ame su trabajo no puede esperar que
    le guste a los dem\xE1s.\"\r\n\r\n-- Jan Tschichold\r\n\r\n\"\xBFPiensas en letras
    o las letras te hacen pensar?\"\r\n\r\n-- odafonts\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-07 18:35:31'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Ok, I'm sure this issue is tired, i just remembered where i found the 'shagging
    sheep' comment.\r\n \r\nhttp://www.spiekermann.com/iblog/C1109747452/index.html\r\n\r\nThis
    is where I got my info. Go fig.\r\n\r\nBonus Question.\r\nWere you really told
    to \u201Cstop stealing sheep,\u201D or is that a watered down version of what
    was said for letter-spacing all caps?\r\nfrederick goudy said that \"men who would
    letterspace lower case would shag sheep', as that was (and is) considered a cardinal
    sin by typographers. Letterspacing caps, however, is done and should be done generously."
  created: '2005-07-18 05:16:41'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Strange that this should appear beneath a suggestion to track out copy set
    in less than 12pt.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-07-18 09:05:58'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "In Erik's book <em>Stop Stealing Sheep & find out how type works</em>,\r\nhe
    admits to not knowing Goudy's <em>exact wording</em>, but that \"it makes infinite
    sense\" regardless of wording.\r\n\r\nSo let's not take Erik's versions as historically
    accurate, just rhetorical.\r\n\r\nWhen Mr. Goudy made his statement, he obvioulsy
    knew it was a <em>faux pas</em> since apologized profusely by saying he <em>says
    that about everything!</em>\r\n\r\nIMHO, the \"blackletter\" and \"steal sheep\"
    version seemed more likely since he was being presented an award (certificate
    with blackletter?) at a public forum.\r\n\r\nAlso, IMHO, \"shag sheep\" seems
    to be more of Welsh origin, and Goudy was American born and bred, so if he did
    ever used the term \"shag,\" he more than likely got it from his father who probably
    told young Frederic to <em>stop shagging sheep</em> ;)"
  created: '2005-07-18 16:16:06'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "In 1998 our class was visiting [[Jonathan Hoefler|Jonathan Hoefler's]] studio.
    I can't say this is a quote, more of a paraphrase, but it made the right impact
    at the time! (I'll try not to mess it up...)\r\n\r\nStudent's Question: \"What
    do you think of experimental typography?\"\r\n\r\nJonathan's answer: \"People
    think they can open Helvetica and just f*** with the points and call it experimental.
    That's not experimental.\""
  created: '2005-07-30 11:00:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "At Typecon, Mario Feliciano said to me this lovely variation on  Walter Tracy's
    quote:\r\n\r\n\"You want beautiful words, not beautiful letters.\""
  created: '2005-07-30 16:10:11'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Aha! I knew I had one somewhere... only snag is that it's not actually from
    a type designer.\r\n\r\n\"Typography fostered the modern idea of individuality,
    but it destroyed the medieval sense of community and integration.\"\r\n\r\nNeil
    Postman, in 'Amusing Ourselves To Death' 1985, as quoted in the introduction to
    Lewis Blackwell's '20th century type (remix)'"
  created: '2005-10-05 06:01:42'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Tiffany, where is this going? is it still relevant to add things here? do
    the quotes have to be from practicing type designers? is the 'why' out yet? are
    you getting what you're looking for?
  created: '2005-10-05 15:31:48'
- author:
    name: Wadim Kahlkopf
    picture: 111035
  body: "A bit away from this topic (I`m not font designer), but I found my own quote
    in my designmagazin published online for about 6 years funny. \r\nI must have
    been drunk as I that wrote:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.kahlkopf.com/files/typographie.gif\r\n\r\nTranslated
    from german:\r\n\r\nTypografie is the true kickass, believe me. It makes you crazy
    and compliant again and again. It plays \"cat and mouse\" game with you. \r\nIt,
    the science for itself, inspires you with its ability to transplantation and transfusion
    the thoughts. It never leaves you in the pass... \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-07 15:05:25'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Since there are several traditional ways to create emphasis with blackletter,
    including letterspacing, second color, substitution of a roman font, and, given
    the date of the award, 1936, my understanding is that Goudy's comment had to do
    with the growing anti-German sentiments of the time period.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-10-07 18:12:00'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "A further note regarding the possibility that Goudy's now infamous quote
    was at the time a slur on Germany made as a point for engaging his audience; this
    culled from The Book Collector's Packet of 1939. A boycott on \"Nazi-made types\"
    was undertaken in the U.S. by the Graphic Arts Forum, \"a group of democratically
    minded graphic arts and advertising people.\" The banned typefaces included Bauer
    Bodoni, Bernhard Modern, Eve, Futura, Kabel, Neuland, Trafton, and Weiss.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-10-07 18:24:28'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "All typefaces are historical.\r\nJonathan Hoefler"
  created: '2005-10-10 02:47:43'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Quoting Leslie Cabarga from his Logo Font and Lettering Bible<strong>\r\n\r\n\"...Matthew
    Carter's Big Caslon is so scrumptious, I want to lick it. \" </strong>\r\n\r\npg.
    201\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-15 16:37:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "and from another Cabarga book, i think this one by Sumner Stone should become
    a classic:\r\n\r\n\"My ways are many. All mysterious. I have said too much already.\"\r\n(Learn
    FontLab Fast, p. 9)"
  created: '2005-10-16 00:10:04'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>\u201CMen who would letterspace blackletter would shag sheep\u201D
    - Frederick Goudy</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is the correct quote. E. Ginger did the research
    for \"Stop Stealing Sheep\", and she actually spoke to an old lady who had been
    to the event and heard Goudy say the \"s\" word. Patrick Ames, then publisher
    for Adobe Press, loved the quote, suggested it as the title for the book and changed
    it, for obvious reasons. The book <em>was</em> intended for typographic novices,
    and those were obviously not deemed grown-up enough for real four letter words.
    I always thought the titel way too obscure, but I do have a collection of model
    and toy sheep (too small to shag), because lots of friends think it very funny
    to give me sheep as presents."
  created: '2005-10-16 00:47:39'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "My favourite quote (for obvious reasons) is by Robin Kinross, in Baseline
    (I have it somewhere, but cannot be bothered to look for it \u2013 too many book
    shelves):\r\n\r\n\"Meta is the Helvetica of the 90s.\""
  created: '2005-10-16 00:54:44'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>Robin Kinross, in Baseline</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nOops, I meant <em>Blueprint</em>.
    Perhaps I shouldn\u2019t quote from memory at 2am."
  created: '2005-10-16 00:56:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I updated the wiki to attribute the quote... http://typophile.com/wiki/FF%20Meta\r\n\r\nYou
    can click the 'edit' text if you want to fix errors in your posts - a useful feature.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-16 01:03:53'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "From all these experiences the most important thing I have learned is that
    legibility and beauty stand close together and that type design, in its restraint,
    should be only felt but not perceived by the reader.\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2014Adrian Frutiger"
  created: '2005-10-16 02:48:31'
- author:
    name: superkhy
    picture: 111007
  body: "as much as i love type, i've got to disagree with this guy:\r\n\r\n\u201CIt
    is a rarer gift to lay words out properly than to write them\u201D\r\nNicholas
    Barker, writing of Will Carter"
  created: '2005-10-17 09:23:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I needed this for TypeCon this past July. However, keep them coming as I
    think others might find this a fun resource in the future. \r\n\r\nGlad to see
    people are still posting."
  created: '2005-10-23 04:20:16'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Of all the achievements of the human mind, the birth of an elephant is the
    most momentous.\r\n\u2014 Frederic Goudy\r\n\r\n{what I read when I first saw
    the quote.}"
  created: '2005-10-23 13:14:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That's an eary quote David, you must have truncated one of the words :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-23 13:32:07'
- author:
    name: alfabet
    picture: 109562
  body: "Down with Univers! Long live Gill Sans!\r\n-- Leo Maggs\r\nin <em>Types Best
    Remembered/Best Forgotten</em> , ISBN 1884606008"
  created: '2005-10-23 16:06:33'
- author:
    name: alfabet
    picture: 109562
  body: "\"By the year 2000 every secretary will have a favorite typeface.\"\r\n (or
    was it <em>font</em>?)\"\r\n-- Roger Black (possibly at Type90 in Oxford, England)"
  created: '2005-10-23 16:21:37'
- author:
    name: alfabet
    picture: 109562
  body: "\"Typography? Aaah, lots of fun--no money!\"\r\n-- unknown passanger on a
    train from Gatwick Airport to London, England, after asking me what I do for a
    living. I was on my way to Type90 A.Typ.I conference in Oxford."
  created: '2005-10-23 16:25:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, spooky: although I think I'd never seen that exact quote before, I
    actually read alphabet for elephant! Only your qualification made me go back and
    see elephant. I guess being very familiar with Goudy's strong* affection for the
    Latin alphabet, the power of suggestion skewed the bouma to an extent I don't
    think I've ever experienced before. Wow.\r\n\r\n* To me, overly so.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-23 17:36:57'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "<em>Somewhere around now my brain explodes, leaving a real mess on the dining
    room table where I do most of the work on my laptop.</em>\r\n<a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2005/10/increased_expec_1.html\">Thomas
    Phinney</a>"
  created: '2005-11-01 03:05:35'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "<em>I mean, \u03C9hat the f\u03C5ck?</em>\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/15819#comment-91993\">John
    Hudson</a>"
  created: '2005-11-01 03:10:41'
- author:
    name: timotheus
    picture: 109558
  body: '"The flood of print has turned reading into a process of gulping rather than
    savoring." -- Warren Chappell'
  created: '2005-11-01 18:32:40'
- author:
    name: roballoo
    picture: 110497
  body: "This one has always stuck with me:\r\n\r\n\"To be married to a wife who can
    set type is happiness indeed.\"\r\n~ Walter Tracy, Letters of Credit\r\n\r\nI
    think this would be a great quote for the typographer matchmaking service I plan
    on starting :)"
  created: '2005-11-02 07:57:42'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: '"When a type design is good it is not because each individual letter of the
    alphabet is perfect in form, but because there is a feeling of harmony and unbroken
    rhythm that runs through the whole design, each letter kin to every other and
    to all." - F. Goudy'
  created: '2006-03-16 05:58:00'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Originally I thought this was quotes from famous Type Designers, and I'm
    not sure this is a famous quote, but I kind of like it. I couldn't bring myself
    to actually insert one for effect though.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cheapskate.jpg]\r\n\r\nFont
    is Cheapskate by Pat Broderick. Quote is by Susanna Sturgis"
  created: '2006-04-10 03:26:11'
- author:
    name: v-six
    picture: 111502
  body: "I saw one of Gill's grumpy quotes in here, and figured that I'd add another
    from <em>An Essay On Typography</em>.\r\n\r\n<cite>[Writing] is in fact an entirely
    outworn, decayed and corrupt convention whose chief & most conspicuous character
    is its monumental witness to the conservatism, laziness and irrationality of men
    and women.<cite>\r\n\r\nI'm counting down the days until I turn into a didact!"
  created: '2006-04-10 05:19:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One of my favorite news items of the new millennium:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/education/3103421.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: v-six
      picture: 111502
    body: Nice link hrant, I bet that would have made Gill all sorts of happy!
    created: '2006-04-10 05:36:14'
  created: '2006-04-10 05:24:57'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "In anticipation of TypeCon2006:\r\n\r\n\"Typomania is curable but not fatal.
    Unfortunately.\"\r\n\u2014 Erik Spiekermann, TypeCon2005\r\n\r\n\"Slikify it\"\r\n\u2014
    Erik Spiekermann, TypeCon2005, in reference to the redigitizing of the FF Bau
    font\r\n\r\n\"We're very concerned with language and how language works. We're
    trying to engage people rather than dictate how they should be thinking.\"\r\n\u2014
    Neville Brody, TypeCon2005\r\n\r\n\"Its focus wasn't on the written word but how
    the word was written\".\r\n\u2014 Neville Brody, TypeCon2005, in reference to
    Fuse Magazine"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Florian Hardwig
      picture: 112260
    body: "Andi Emery said:\r\n<cite>\u201CTypomania is curable but not fatal. Unfortunately.\u201D\r\n\u2014
      Erik Spiekermann, TypeCon2005</cite>\r\n\r\nThe Helvetica movie features a variation
      of that by Erik himself:\r\n<cite>\u201CI\u2019m obviously a typomaniac\u2014which
      is an incurable if not mortal disease.\u201D</cite>\r\nAggravation?"
    children:
    - author:
        name: Jackie Frant
        picture: 109498
      body: "I've always heard that quote as:\r\n\"The bad news is you are a ______-phile;
        the good news is it's incurable.\"\r\n\r\nFill in the hobby of your choice.
        Used as an opening line for bad speech makers... Normally the rest of the
        speech goes downhill from that point -- along with the bad chicken dinner
        that goes with it."
      created: '2007-04-28 13:00:53'
    created: '2007-04-27 16:16:22'
  created: '2006-06-20 16:05:28'
- author:
    name: pimentel
    picture: 109777
  body: "\"The Ardent Hymn that Unites Peoples\"\r\n\u2014 Pablo Neruda, Ode to Typography\r\n\r\nnot
    a designer, but quite typelover to put on."
  created: '2006-07-04 22:23:27'
- author:
    name: acrobat
  body: "\"One of the many unforseen consequences of typography, the rise of nationalism
    is maybe the best known\"\r\nMarshall McLuhan\r\n\r\n(but I can't find the source.
    I could be misquoting slightly)"
  created: '2007-04-26 16:54:57'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "</em>\u201COf the many unforeseen consequences of typography, the emergence
    of nationalism is, perhaps, the most familiar.\u201D\r\n\r\nMarshall McLuhan,
    <em>Understanding Media: The Extensions of Man</em>"
  created: '2007-04-26 18:11:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Marshall McLuhan, what font did he design again?\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2007-04-26 19:53:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wasn't it WTC Our Bodoni or something?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-04-26 19:57:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\nDon't you remember? It only came in a medium weight, I think itwas
    called Message :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-26 20:03:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Chris, you know I threw you that pitch so you could hit a home run. Well done!
    I think it was actually "Massage Medium" - but that's always been disputed.
  created: '2007-04-26 21:58:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would rather get a massage than a message any day :-)\r\nBut I will take
    that lying down.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-04-26 23:30:04'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "THIS IS\r\nA PRINTING OFFICE \r\n\r\nCROSSROADS OF CIVILISATION \r\nREFUGE
    OF ALL THE ARTS\r\nAGAINST THE RAVAGES OF TIME\r\nARMOURY OF FEARLESS TRUTH\r\nAGAINST
    WHISPERING RUMOUR\r\nINCESSANT TRUMPET OF TRADE \r\n\r\nFROM THIS PLACE WORDS
    MAY FLY ABROAD\r\nNOT TO PERISH ON WAVES OF SOUND\r\nNOT TO VARY WITH THE WRITER'S
    HAND\r\nBUT FIXED IN TIME HAVING BEEN VERIFIED IN PROOF\r\nFRIEND YOU STAND ON
    SACRED GROUND\r\nTHIS IS A PRINTING OFFICE \r\n\r\n<em>Beatrice Warde</em>  (1932)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nenne.com/typography/bw3.html"
  created: '2007-04-27 16:46:37'
- author:
    name: Sofie B
    picture: 111063
  body: "I can\u2019t seem to locate the quote: \"Typography is a beautiful group
    of letters, not a group of beautiful letters\" in any of Tracy\u2019s writings,
    can someone please help me with a title and a page number? "
  created: '2007-09-28 19:04:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Googling, I see it in several places attributed to "Steve Byers", but I don''t
    know who that is. I looked in Tracy and then gave up. I can''t remember where
    I first read or heard it. Good luck, I''d like to know the source also. '
  created: '2007-09-28 20:40:03'
- author:
    name: Sofie B
    picture: 111063
  body: "I did the same, and went for a look at the Steve Byers article, in \u2018The
    Art of Looking Sideways\u2019 by Allan Fletcher. \r\n\r\nThe article itself is
    mostly a list of quotes on typography. The title of the article is \u2018Typography
    is a beautiful group of letters, not a group of beautiful letters\u2019 (with
    quotation marks), but with no reference to the origin of this specific quotation\u2026\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-28 22:32:28'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: Steve Byers was one of the type development/marketing managers at Linotype,
    I think out of Hauppauge, NY during the mid-to-late eighties.
  created: '2007-09-28 22:34:13'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "\"This font didn't take much to make. About 30 hours altogether.\" --Fred
    Nader, speaking of 'Miltown', a font made from the Matrix movie title.\r\n\r\nThirty
    hours for a quick display font? Makes me wonder what kind of spread it took to
    make different kinds of fonts and font sets."
  created: '2007-09-28 23:14:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Steve Byers was a classmate of mine at Carnegie Mellon in the mid 60s. He
    majored in Graphic Arts Management. He went on to a bright career as Norbert mentioned.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-09-29 00:39:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Doing a little digging I see that Steve Byers was [[http://www.tdc.org/about/byers.html|on
    the board of the Type Directors Club]] fairly recently. You might contact him
    through them, and find out where he got the quote. '
  created: '2007-09-29 01:34:10'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: He probably got the quote from me during a drunken stupor at ATypI in the
    eighties ;^)
  created: '2007-09-29 03:08:39'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "well, I didn't see this one yet:\r\n\u201CLegibility, in practice, amounts
    simply to what one is accustomed to\u201D. Eric Gill\r\n\r\nand another Gill (Dr.
    John):\r\n\"It is freely admitted that this \"testing\" is far from ideal and
    could even be described as anecdotal.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-09-29 03:36:55'
- author:
    name: Wynnefield
    picture: 113298
  body: "&ldquo;In the fields of Printing & Graphic Design, it is generally agreed
    that the poet in our midst is the type designer.&rdquo;<br />\r\n&mdash; Noel
    Martin\r\n\r\nWynne Hunkler\r\nPrincipal | <a href=\"http://www.wynnefields.com/\">Wynnefields
    Creative</a>\r\nWeb Design & Visual Communications"
  created: '2008-03-16 20:19:35'
- author:
    name: will powers
  body: "Talbot Baines Reed, author of \"A History of the Old English Letter Foundries,\"
    wrote:\r\n\r\n\"Egotism has been and remains responsible for many defects of modern
    typography.\"\r\n\r\nOriginally in \"Ars Typographica,\" winter 1920. Reprinted,
    with the title \"Old and New Fashions in Typography,\" in Heller & Meggs \"Texts
    on Type.\"\r\n\r\nSo, maybe he wasn't a type designer. Still . . . . .\r\n\r\npowers"
  created: '2008-03-17 17:51:05'
- author:
    name: PublishingMojo
    picture: 116574
  body: "<cite>@Jim:</cite> Frederic Goudy was almost as prolific a creator of <cite>bon
    mots</cite> as of typefaces. My personal favorite is:\r\n\r\n<strong>Someday I'll
    design a typeface without a K in it, and then let's see the bastards misspell
    my name.</strong>"
  created: '2009-01-24 21:26:09'
- author:
    name: Sye
    picture: 131821
  body: heehee
  created: '2009-01-25 23:18:04'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I am surprised that a direct recollection confirms the saltier version of
    the Frederic W. Goudy quote on letterspacing blackletter (or lower-case). After
    all, he is an American type designer, not a British one, and the quote dates from
    a time prior to the release of the Austin Powers movies.\r\n\r\nReading the posts
    here led me to search out this page:\r\n\r\nhttp://berlinbooks.org/brb/2009/11/typocalyse-now-the-legacy-of-jan-tschichold/\r\n\r\nWhen
    I was a child, I na\xEFvely thought that serifs were an unnecessary and old-fashioned
    complication to the forms of letters. Thus, Jan Tschihold's youthful folly is
    entirely understandable. I propose that it was shared, in a different form, more
    widely than may have been recognized.\r\n\r\nWhen printing began, printed books
    imitated manuscripts. Since the letters were formed at one point, when the matrices
    were made, why not use the form of letter that is esteemed as the best one - the
    one that is the most elaborate, that requires the most effort to make?\r\n\r\nDespite
    habit, I suspect that the issues of readability with regard to blackletter were
    noticed by some even at the very beginning. The rapid emergence of rotunda and
    bastarda typefaces would seem to confirm this.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, because rotunda
    and bastarda were very readable, I think it regrettable that this line of development
    did not continue to be followed in the creation of text types. While Lydian is
    readable, it is still unlikely to be used for text, and, while Optima could be
    said to be related, it is derived from Roman and sans-serif typefaces, and does
    not belong to this line of evolution at all.\r\n\r\nThe fact that Roman types
    were used for Latin text might be put down to authenticity alone. But the fact
    that blackletter was suitable for the vernacular - the reader's native language
    - while Roman was used for texts that are in an ancient language which the reader
    had learned as a second language seems to me another indication that Roman was
    regarded as more legible all along.\r\n\r\nAlso, in the early days of printing,
    it was difficult enough for printers to cast their own blackletter and roman fonts
    in a range of sizes. The Roman of Aldus Manutilus closely resembled that of Nicholas
    Jenson, and the Roman of Claude Garamond was patterned after that of Aldus Manutilus.
    Printers tended to use one style of roman face and stick to it.\r\n\r\nObviously,
    if one is only using one roman face, and one is cutting one's own punches, there
    will be motivation to make the best ones possible, and one's own personality and
    limitations and handwriting will all be reflected. So there will be change over
    time. Thus, Caslon, Baskerville, and Bell all emerged from this type of evolution,
    as well as Bodoni.\r\n\r\nGiven, then, that the world was emerging from a period
    when printing shops only had a very limited set of typefaces, it's not surprising
    that Jenson, Poliphilus, Bembo and Garamond all had to be revived. With only Caslon
    - and, later, oldstyle faces based on the one by Alexander Phemister - as competition,
    it's also not surprising that Scotch Roman faces - which attempted to soften the
    characteristics of Bodoni much as Gill Sans, later, was considered a humanist
    sans-serif - became the fashion.\r\n\r\nIn this earlier day, their unbracketed
    serifs were seen, like the lack of serifs on Helvetica, to be an abandonment of
    useless, unnecessary ornament. But everything needful for legibility - serifs
    of some sort, classical proportion - was retained.\r\n\r\nI see Times Roman as
    being like Caslon - a \"sweet spot\" that will stay popular for a long time. When
    in doubt, set it in Times... is, in effect, already the maxim that the same thing,
    said about Caslon, once was. In the area of sans-serif, Stone and Lucida seem
    to be today's fashion.\r\n\r\nWhen Caslon fell, the earlier oldstyle types not
    being available, it led to the Scotch Roman epoch which looks so dismal to today's
    eyes.\r\n\r\nWhen Times Roman falls, though, technical factors will not pressure
    us to use overly condensed letters. Nor will the designs of Baskerville or Bembo
    be hidden and unavailable. So there is no reason for the fashions of the future
    to give us a long, depressing era dominated by typefaces which, to their posterity
    (as well as our eyes, if we could see them) look awful and thus make their popularity
    inexplicable.\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-02 22:02:15'
- author:
    name: Renaissance Man
    picture: 112023
  body: "Type is like music in having its own beauty, and in being beautiful as an
    accompaniment and interpretation; and typography can be used to express a state
    of the soul, like the other arts and crafts. But like them it is too often used
    mechanically, and so the full expressiveness of this medium is unrealized. If
    it is used according to a rule or recipe, it becomes dull and loses vividness.
    Type appears at first to be a rigid medium; but like other rigid media, it is
    plastic to the living spirit of a craftsman.\r\n\t\u2014J.H. Mason"
  created: '2010-06-09 19:17:06'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\"Perfect typography is more a science than an art.\" \r\n\r\nTschichold,
    J. (1962). <em>Consistent correlation between book page and type area</em> (as
    cited by Tschichold, J. 1975/1991). <em>The form of the book</em>. Hartley & Marks
    Publishers Inc. Washington, United States."
  created: '2010-06-09 19:30:43'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: .
  created: '2010-06-09 19:32:07'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\"Printing demands a humility of mind, for the lack of which many of the
    fine arts are even now floundering in self-conscious and maudlin experiments.\"\r\n\r\nWarde,
    B. (1955). <em>The Crystal Goblet: Sixteen Essays on Typography</em>.\r\n\r\n(There
    are multiple references, I am not sure which is most accurate)"
  created: '2010-06-09 20:41:48'
- author:
    name: Terrence Chouinard
    picture: 111915
  body: "The Goudy letter spacing quote? I believe the truth is the old man said that
    line so many times, that it is pointless to argue a definitive version exists.
    Just credit a source, that'll give your citation value.\r\n\r\nBut certainly,
    there's no k at the end of Frederic."
  created: '2011-09-14 16:03:02'
- author:
    name: Terrence Chouinard
    picture: 111915
  body: "Typography is the most influential of all the arts:\r\nit sends knowledge
    abroad as heaven sends the rain. \r\nOne fructifies the soul; the other man\u2019s
    intelligence.\r\n \r\n1923 ATF SPECIMEN BOOK"
  created: '2011-09-14 16:05:37'
- author:
    name: Terrence Chouinard
    picture: 111915
  body: "Plenty of white space and generous line spacing, \r\nand don\u2019t make
    the type size too miserly. \r\nThen you will be assured of a product fit for a
    king.\r\n \r\nGIAMBATTISTA BODONI"
  created: '2011-09-14 16:06:04'
- author:
    name: Terrence Chouinard
    picture: 111915
  body: "A good typographer does what he should do, \r\nnot what he wants to do.\r\n
    \r\nMICHAEL RUSSEM / MICHAEL BIXLER\r\n\r\nOften said & written by friend Michael
    Russem, but just as often cited by our mentor Michael Bixler"
  created: '2011-09-14 16:06:56'
- author:
    name: Terrence Chouinard
    picture: 111915
  body: "As the saying goes, \r\ntype is a beautiful group of letters, \r\nnot a group
    of beautiful letters.\L\r\n \r\nMATTHEW CARTER"
  created: '2011-09-14 16:07:11'
- author:
    name: Terrence Chouinard
    picture: 111915
  body: "Standardization, instead of individualization.\r\nCheap books, instead of
    private press editions.\r\nActive literature, instead of passive leather bindings.\r\n
    \r\nJAN TSCHICHOLD"
  created: '2011-09-14 16:07:33'
- author:
    name: Terrence Chouinard
    picture: 111915
  body: "By a typographer, I do not mean a printer,\r\nas he is vulgarly accounted.
    By a typographer, \r\nI mean such as one, who by his own judgement, \r\nfrom solid
    reasoning within himself, \r\ncan either perform, or direct others to perform
    \r\nfrom the beginning to the end, \r\nall the handy-works & physical operations\r\nrelating
    to typographie.\r\n \r\nJOSEPH MOXON"
  created: '2011-09-14 16:07:49'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Originally published in U&lc.\r\n\r\n\"I think it's rather difficult to create
    a new typeface design, or for that matter, to create a new anything that's in
    everyday use. A new piece of music would parallel the creation of a new typeface.
    For example, the notes of music don't change, and the letters of the alphabet
    don't change, either. It's a matter of how they're put together. The most important
    feature must be that its newness has a reflection all its own and fits into the
    pattern of today's generation of graphic designers. The new creation must have
    something in its character that makes the potential user sit up and take notice.
    These typographic traits could create a popular demand but we must also consider
    that this popularity may only be a temporary. Personally, I don't think there's
    anything wrong with that. I know we all feel our designs will last forever, but
    some things like music don't last either. It's like 'here today and forgotten
    tomorrow.' Anyway, you and I can be sure of one thing: the number of typefaces
    will surely increase.\" \u2014Ed. Benguiat\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-15 18:51:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James,\r\n\r\nOnce in a while you get something like the Bach B minor Mass
    or Beethoven's 9th and they stick around for a few hundred years. Of course, many
    of us would be happy if one of our faces lasted as long as \"Cant Get No Satisfaction\"
    ;-)"
  created: '2011-09-15 19:26:16'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nMost will likely end up as [[http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qhYLz63csS0|\"Incense
    and Peppermints\"]]"
  created: '2011-09-15 22:30:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: More likely, the B side of a cover version of "Someone Left the Cake Out in
    the Rain" :-)
  created: '2011-09-15 22:55:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Surely you mean "MacArthur Park".
  created: '2011-09-16 02:52:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Damn, I knew there was something wrong with that title!
  created: '2011-09-16 05:06:07'
- author:
    name: Eric Kelsey
    picture: 117439
  body: "\u201CThe advent of the computer generated the \r\nphenomena called desktop
    publishing. This \r\nenabled anyone who could type the freedom of \r\nusing any
    available typeface and do any kind of \r\ndistortion. It was a disaster of mega
    proportions. \r\nA cultural pollution of incomparable dimension. \r\nAs I said,
    at the time, if all people doing desktop \r\npublishing were doctors we would
    all be dead!\u201D\r\n\r\n\u2014 Massimo Vignelli"
  created: '2011-09-22 15:58:33'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I think that the designers of menswear had a similar feeling towards Massimo's
    menswear collection as Massimo has towards desktop publishing.\r\n\r\nI would
    dismiss anything Massimo says regarding type or typography. Additionally, he is
    not and has never been a type designer, so his quote does not belong in this thread.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-22 20:44:30'
- author:
    name: Eric Kelsey
    picture: 117439
  body: "You're right. He isn't a type designer. I didn't read the title all that
    closely. \r\n\r\nI don't agree with some of his opinions. I am particularly referring
    to his statement that there aren't more than a handful of good fonts. I wouldn't
    dismiss anything he has to say about type or typography though.\r\n\r\nI like
    this quote and I think he makes a good point. It has become much easier to make
    a typeface due to the computer and the result is a lot of bad typefaces. It is
    clever the way he compares desktop publishing to the medical industry."
  created: '2011-09-22 21:47:16'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Just another one of the \"old guys\" complaining about the computer.\r\n\r\nThe
    computer may have made it a bit easier to make a typeface, and there are no doubt
    many really crappy typefaces out there, but it has also give the graphic design
    industry the largest collection of great typefaces in history.\r\n\r\n<cite>As
    I said, at the time, if all people doing desktop publishing were doctors we would
    all be dead</cite>\r\n\r\nMore crap from Massimo. Following his analogy; If some
    were doctors, yes some might be dead, but the others would have saved an awful
    lot of lives.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2011-09-22 22:04:46'
- author:
    name: Eric Kelsey
    picture: 117439
  body: Very good point that by making it easier to produce a typeface the computer
    also made it possible to produce more good typefaces. I like your optimistic view
    on the the subject.
  created: '2011-09-22 22:27:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: 'Massimo sounds like he was just lamenting the loss of revenue to others.  In
    his era (and mine) designers made most of their money on fairly mundane work that
    was simple to design and could easily be turned over to lesser-paid staff.  We
    used to call this grunt work. This freed up the top-dogs to spend more time on
    show pieces yet still collect on the grunt work done by their staff. It was a
    steady moneymaker with plenty of repeat business--as in "update this monthly catalog
    with new prices".  Yes, the computer turned this into a database publishing issue
    with automated regional versioning and distribution.  Yes, there also was a huge
    birth of hack designers now in the workforce who knew noting about design but
    plenty about software usage. So goes the world. We have always had competition
    to deal with. Some of it was only in price and not in quality.  If a client didn''t
    give a damn about good design, he hired a hack and saved a few bucks. That is
    the way the world works, Massimo. Get over it already--it is 2011 now, not 1965.
    The NYC grip also faded with the internet.  You did not have to be a 5 minute
    cab ride to all the big clients to get their work any more. Sure, now you can
    get both crap design and good design from Manhattan to Malaysia.  Welcome to the
    global economy, we are all better off for it except a very few of the elite and
    late adopters perhaps. '
  created: '2011-09-23 00:47:30'
- author:
    name: gvsree
  body: 'If beauty of music is between the notes, beauty of typography is in the white
    spaces: counters, letter space, word space and leading !!'
  created: '2012-02-14 18:53:46'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Bill, I think you have successfully pinned your quote to Walter Tracy thanks
    to the wonders of the internet. :^p Did you ever find a positive attribution of
    this quote to him? I could not find it in a search of <em>Letters of Credit</em>
    on google books.
  created: '2012-02-25 08:21:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Paul, I couldn't find it flipping through <em>Letters of Credit</em> either,
    which was the reason I was hesitant in my original post in this thread. I still
    don't know. Just checking, I do see that Tina Parker, above, is right about it
    being in <em>Font, Logo, and Lettering Bible</em> by Leslie Cabarga. And there
    it quotes Matthew Carter (p. 200): \"As the saying goes, type is a beautiful group
    of letters, not a group of beautiful letters.\" Evidently Carter thinks he got
    it from somewhere else. I believe that in a Typophile thread, David Berlow confirmed
    that it was originally Walter Tracy, but with no reference. \r\n\r\nIt could be
    that I heard it aurally from Matthew Carter at TypeCon, with a reference to Tracy,
    but I can't remember.  So to solve the mystery you might ask Matthew Carter. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2012-02-25 18:08:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: I thought it was MC too, until I dug up this thread. But your wording of the
    same sentiment from this thread can be found in several places on the net with
    attribution to Walter Tracy, but never with any reference. :^/
  created: '2012-02-25 18:27:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'As I said, Carter, as quoted in Cabarga, indicates that it''s not original
    with him, and he was just quoting it. So it''s not solved. Berlow seemed to be
    sure it was Tracy. It would be nice to nail down the source, because it''s something
    like the first rule of type design. '
  created: '2012-02-25 18:45:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have heard that quote many times, including from, Carter.  I don't recall
    him being very positive about the attribution.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-25 19:10:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"... if all people doing desktop\r\npublishing were doctors we would all
    be dead!\u201D\r\n\r\n\u2014 Massimo Vignelli\"\r\n\r\nAnd if all doctors had
    stopped learning and never used any tools developed after 1960, how many of us
    would now be dead?  Me, for sure--thanks to a quadruple bypass operation.\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-25 19:14:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Dezcom: more than a beautiful group of letters! Keep on ticking and drawing:)'
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: Thanks,Bill!!!
    created: '2012-02-25 21:03:33'
  created: '2012-02-25 19:32:14'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "WWJMBD?\r\n\u2014 <a href=\"http://readthetype.com/\">Dean, C. T.</a> (2012).\r\n\r\nOriginally
    tweeted by <a href=\"https://twitter.com/#!/readthetype\">@Readthetype</a>: \r\n\u201C<em>To
    all graphic designers, when in doubt just ask yourself WWJMBD? (What Would Josef
    M\xFCller-Brockmann Do?) If you don\u2019t know who he is, quit</em>.\u201D"
  created: '2012-02-25 20:00:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Christopher, regarding M\xFCeller-Brockmann, he would do as he always did,
    use flush-left Helvetica ;-)"
  created: '2012-02-25 21:06:47'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "When I specifically asked Matthew about that \u201Cbeautiful collection of
    letters\u201D <em>bon mot</em> last year, his response was, \u201CI'm sure I heard
    it from Mike Parker, but where he heard it I don't know.\u201D"
  created: '2012-02-26 13:50:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Interesting, Kent. Parker and Tracy were heads of typeface development at
    Linotype US and UK respectively, at the same time, so it''s quite possible that
    Parker heard it from Tracy. It''s still an open question, but we''re getting closer
    to the answer. '
  created: '2012-02-26 14:04:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It seems to me you just got further.  :-)\r\nI guess now ask Mike.\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of which:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/90369#comment-496548\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-26 14:35:59'
- author:
    name: alkouatli
    picture: 126041
  body: "Hi,\r\nI'm <a href=\"https://plus.google.com/104950504255377185080/about?rel=author\">Saadi.</a>\r\nI
    don't know who said this quote: \"Stay true to your form no matter where you are.\"\r\nWhen
    I read it I knew it was perfect to expose the beauty of a font. So I did this
    experimental video with two of my friends for FUTURA.\r\n\r\nPlease let me know
    what you think. Here's the link.\r\nhttp://www.saadialkouatli.com/futura-typography-experiment/"
  created: '2012-12-04 10:27:14'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I just noticed that, astoundingly, one of my favorite quotes is missing from
    this thread. Another quote from the same person is present, and a quote from a
    different individual expressing a similar idea is present... but this famous quote
    is not:\r\n\r\n<cite>Imagine that you have before you a flagon of wine. You may
    choose your own favourite vintage for this imaginary demonstration, so that it
    be a deep shimmering crimson in colour. You have two goblets before you. One is
    of solid gold, wrought in the most exquisite patterns. The other is of crystal-clear
    glass, thin as a bubble, and as transparent. Pour and drink; and according to
    your choice of goblet, I shall know whether or not you are a connoisseur of wine.
    For if you have no feelings about wine one way or the other, you will want the
    sensation of drinking the stuff out of a vessel that may have cost thousands of
    pounds; but if you are a member of that vanishing tribe, the amateurs of fine
    vintages, you will choose the crystal, because everything about it is calculated
    to reveal rather than hide the beautiful thing which it was meant to contain.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Bear
    with me in this long-winded and fragrant metaphor; for you will find that almost
    all the virtues of the perfect wine-glass have a parallel in typography.</cite>\r\n\r\nBeatrice
    Warde\r\n\r\nActually, looking at her essay, I see why: it doesn't contain a single
    short quote giving its point, although somewhere else I had seen a quote from
    her doing so.\r\n\r\nAh, wait: this will do (and, in fact, <em>was</em> what I
    was looking for but initially missed) -\r\n\r\n<cite>Type well used is invisible
    as type, just as the perfect talking voice is the unnoticed vehicle for the transmission
    of words, ideas.</cite>\r\n\r\nOne could also say that her metaphor is out of
    date. Crystal is glass which calls attention to itself because it has had lead
    oxide added to it to increase its refractive index, causing it to sparkle. Lead
    can leach out into the wine, sweetening it. (And, for that matter, one of the
    virtues of gold is that it is highly resistant to chemical attack, unlike many
    other metals, so it is not unsuitable to hold wine. Wine <em>is</em> meant to
    be tasted, not looked at.)\r\n\r\nSo the ideal wine goblet would perhaps be of
    something more resistant, such as borosilicate glass.\r\n\r\n@Chris Dean:\r\nAt
    least Josef M\xFCller-Brockmann will never fall (or, rather, sadly, had never
    fallen) into the hubristic mistake once famously made by one of the Beatles.\r\n\r\nBut
    I will take note of the opinion that our salvation is to be found in the Swiss
    grid system."
  created: '2012-12-04 16:27:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More like salivation.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2012-12-04 17:41:41'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "\u201C<em>There is no end to the maze of practices in typography, and this
    idea of printing as a conveyor is, at least in the minds of all the great typographers
    with whom I have had the privilege of talking, the one clue that can guide you
    through the maze. Without this essential</em> humility of mind<em>, I have seen
    ardent designers go more hopelessly wrong, make more ludicrous mistakes out of
    an excessive enthusiasm, than I could have thought possible</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nWarde,
    B. (1955).\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\n\u201C<em>Printing demands a</em>
    humility of mind<em>, for the lack of which many of the fine arts are even now
    floundering in self-conscious and maudlin experiments</em>.\u201D\r\n\r\nWarde,
    B. (1955)."
  created: '2012-12-04 23:16:00'
date: '2005-07-02 16:07:12'
title: Famous Quotes from Type Designers

---
