---
author:
  name: pedamado
  picture: 109812
body: "<strong>LiveType Project</strong>\r\nOpen Source Collaborative Type Design\r\n<a
  href=\"http://livetype.sourceforge.net\">http://livetype.sourceforge.net</a>\r\n\r\nThe
  [[LiveType Project]] focuses on the development of complete Fonts using <strong>[[Fontforge]]</strong>.\r\nThis
  project aims that everyone involved can and will learn more about typography and
  type <strong>developing in a collaborative method</strong>. It will provide the
  fonts and the font files regularly to users, developers and anyone with an interest
  in type.\r\n\r\nWhat are you waiting for? <strong><a href=\"http://livetype.sourceforge.net/getinvolved.htm\">Get
  involved!</a></strong>"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Is the idea to help improve the FontForge production tool, or is the idea
    to create better quality free fonts? \r\n\r\nThere are probably a few professional
    type designers here who might be opposed to adding more free fonts (esp good quality
    ones) to the large number already available. And perhaps a few people who would
    see a free font development tool as a threat to the commercial font development
    tools available. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: pedamado
      picture: 109812
    body: "Si:\r\n\r\nIf, in the process we manage to help improve Fontforge with
      it's use... GREAT. The idea here is --> <strong>Colaboration</strong> to develop
      better tools for the good of the community. <em>This sounds kinda comunist...</em>
      ;)\r\n\r\nAs for <em>a free font development tool as a threat to the commercial</em>
      ones... well, if the people who develop commercial software were really interested
      in developing good reliable software that keeps up with evolution probably <strong>we
      would already be working on Fontographer MX 2004</strong> lol\r\n\r\n(also don't
      you find it strange that Macromedia controls the development of both major Font
      Editors?)\r\n\r\nFinally... Microsoft developed MSWord ages ago and even so
      <strong>not all of us can write novels</strong> ;) "
    created: '2005-07-07 23:47:39'
  created: '2005-07-07 18:58:05'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Why just Fontforge? Can't we use FontLab?\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-07 19:58:45'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: No offense to anyone, but I have yet to see a freeware program that has been
    anywhere remotely close in terms of quality to a commercial program.
  children:
  - author:
      name: pedamado
      picture: 109812
    body: "tbiddy:\r\nYou are so right... [this is me struggling to get things done
      under Fedora Core 4 + Fontforge]\r\n\r\nNevertheless I believe (like Manuel
      Castells says) that there is a brighter future if we commit ourselves to colaborative
      open [source] development in order to faster and better improve ourselves.\r\n\r\nFollowing
      this idea I decided to try out an all-open-source-got-it -right-with-fedora-core-4-now
      aproach to see if it is possible to do it. With the goal only to learn more
      about type design and typography and share it with others I still find it possible
      to do. <strong>Even though I'm a Linux newbie, up until now things have gone
      pretty well...</strong> I know things (Linux Distros, Fontforge, etc...) seem
      pretty rough right now, but you'll see it comming in the next five years. As
      we read this, more and more people are building the foudations of this Open
      Source future.\r\n\r\nThe only thing I'm sorry about is not being able to help
      George Williams more developing fontforge to commercial quality. Right now I
      can only help promoting it by use. Maybe we'll have a post here someday arguing
      about wich are better, Open Source or Commercial softs. Maybe some day, who
      knows?."
    created: '2005-07-08 00:13:10'
  created: '2005-07-07 20:05:57'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "\"And perhaps a few people who would see a free font development tool as
    a threat to the commercial font development tools available.\"\r\n\r\nSimon, I
    don't think that will be a problem. :)"
  created: '2005-07-07 20:07:35'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "This thread seems to have been a double post. Some more comments are <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/13563\">here</a>.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  children:
  - author:
      name: pedamado
      picture: 109812
    body: "Dan:\r\n\r\nSorry about the double post.\r\n\r\n<cite>And they are the
      cutting edge of font-making technology. I think that students would really get
      a service if they were exposed to those\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm sorry if I didn't
      make myself clear. I think you are absolutely right. But the thing I'm trying
      to say is, students <strong>should</strong> be exposed to as many different
      technologies as possible in order for them to improve in the path they set their
      minds into. Why not the cutting edge? Of course they should!\r\n\r\nAnd... why
      not <strong>ALSO try to learn some alternatives</strong> (they will probably
      be a significant part of the future too). Probably before Fontlab you were a
      Fontographer user right? Why did you change? Keep your mind open to alternatives.
      This is the only thing I'm trying to say.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\nP.S.: Almost
      forgot... my Faculty does not have the budget to acquire a Fontlab license right
      now... is this sad or what? ;)"
    created: '2005-07-08 00:25:14'
  created: '2005-07-07 20:23:46'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<<No offense to anyone, but I have yet to see a freeware program that has
    been anywhere remotely close in terms of quality to a commercial program.>>\r\n\r\nI
    would agree with you, Terry, that this is generally true, but I think [[NOAH]]
    is an exception. While it was never intended as a design tool, it allows you to
    hack fonts on an Postscript level, which I have found useful from time to time
    when I had problems with a font I was working on. And [[Manutius]] is a pretty
    capable program for the price (free)."
  created: '2005-07-07 20:40:45'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>(also don\u2019t you find it strange that Macromedia controls the development
    of both major Font Editors?)</em>\r\n\r\nHuh? Macromedia doesn't control any Font
    Editors. They never controlled FontLab. They did have Fontographer, but after
    the Adobe merger was announced they licensed it to FontLab. So <strong>FontLab,
    Inc.</strong> has both major editors.\r\n\r\nLike I said in the other thread,
    I think you would be better off supporting FontLab. FontLab* <strong>is</strong>
    the little guy. I get kind of annoyed by the idea that people who take money =
    bad, while OpenSource is always somehow more heroic. There is no better font development
    tool than FontLab. And I think that it will be at least a decade before there
    could be any significant competition.\r\n\r\n\r\n*Besides, like I also said in
    your other thread, FontLab supports the best OpenSource technologies. So, really,
    your students would be getting the best of both worlds if they used FontLab.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  children:
  - author:
      name: pedamado
      picture: 109812
    body: "Ups... :(\r\n\r\n<cite>announced they licensed it to FontLab</cite>\r\nUps...
      looks like I got a bit confused with the news sorry! Somehow I thought Fontlab
      would develop Fontographer FOR Macromedia then again in my mind, they would
      interfere with the development etc... Once again... sorry! Really don't know
      what happened.\r\n\r\nStill I don't like the idea that one company is doing
      it all... no matter who.\r\n\r\n<cite>So, really, your students would be getting
      the best of both worlds if they used FontLab. </cite>\r\nOnce again I have to
      excuse myself. Don't know if I made it clear already, but <strong>Fontlab really
      is the best.</strong>\r\n\r\n<cite>I get kind of annoyed by the idea that people
      who take money = bad, while OpenSource is always somehow more heroic</cite>\r\nMy
      speech is starting to have a strange feeling to it doesn't it? I really don't
      mean it that way. All my life I've been a MS user (also a huge MS defensor)
      but lately... I don't know. I really feel that online communities like sourceforge.net
      have something special to them. Maybe I'll never figure this strange facination
      out. Meanwhile I hope I can learn something out of it!"
    created: '2005-07-08 00:41:37'
  created: '2005-07-07 23:55:03'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I hate to inject a little pessimism here, but unfortunately there is no greater
    incentive for change than the all mighty dollar (or Yen, or Euro, whichever your
    currency may be). While in an ideal world it would ring true that independent
    freeware could compete with commercial software, it seems highly unlikely to me.
    \r\n\r\nOn the other hand the idea behind Unix/Linux based systems and their ability
    for user improvements I'm sure has been a motivator for Apple to constantly improve
    their OSX systems while Microsoft in comparison seems a bit behind the times."
  created: '2005-07-08 00:22:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there is no greater incentive for change than the all mighty dollar\r\n\r\nUtter
    rubbish.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-08 01:16:51'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "In my opinion, free software like Fontforge definitely has a place alongside
    commercial software like Fontlab. In my case, I would never have got started on
    type design if the only tools available cost hundreds of dollars. Fontforge is
    probably not as good as Fontlab for a professional type designer, but it is good
    enough, I think, to provide an introduction to type design for students and amateurs.
    Most of the important aspects of type design are not dependant on the software
    tools used to create a typeface. It is quite possible to produce rubbish using
    the best tools, and to produce a good typeface with tools that are merely \"good
    enough\".\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-08 09:29:58'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Most of the important aspects of type design are not dependant on the
    software tools used to create a typeface. It is quite possible to produce rubbish
    using the best tools, and to produce a good typeface with tools that are merely
    \u201Cgood enough\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree wholeheartedly with Glyn on this
    point. The best tool for the job is one that works for you and the way <em>you</em>
    work, but the best tool in the world isn't going to save a bad design, and a good
    design won't be ruined by a humble tool.\r\n\r\nFor the folks working on the FontForge
    project, here are a few suggestions of things <strong>not</strong> to emulate
    in the programs which are currently available...\r\n\r\n<strong>Fontographer</strong>:
    work in whole em units only; develop a sensible interactive scaling tool (the
    Freehand model Fontographer uses is ridiculous, and FontLab's isn't much better);
    and, if you include an autokerning feature, make it a lot less promiscuous.\r\n\r\n<strong>FontLab</strong>:
    if you include a Font Audit function, get a grip on what a flat curve really is;
    develop more flexible drawing tools than the Primitives panel; allow the user
    to specify more default options for repetitive information; and, if you include
    an autokerning feature, make it a little less timid."
  created: '2005-07-08 12:48:36'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "Pedro, don't waste yourself too much in here. Your enthusiasm will find sympathy
    among some of us, but I doubt it will convert anyone, least of all the old priests.\r\n\r\nI
    saw what you've done already \u2014 it's better than nothing. So, go on with your
    work, if you feel capable. I'll still be around to see the final results of your
    labour."
  children:
  - author:
      name: pedamado
      picture: 109812
    body: "<strong>Sergej:</strong>\r\nThanks! The only thing I really wish is to
      have people (students, professionals and amateurs alike) interested in developing
      thir (our) skills. If this project helps doing that... \r\n\r\n<cite>it\u2019s
      better than nothing</cite>\r\n \r\nAnd at least I will finally feel that I gave
      something back ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\r\n<a href=\"http://livetype.sourceforge.net\"
      title=\"LiveType Project - Get Involved\">LiveType Project</a>"
    created: '2005-07-08 19:32:24'
  created: '2005-07-08 17:02:11'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Pedro, I like your enthusiasm. I hope you continue with your efforts because
    I think the world could use more people like you seem to be. My only concern would
    be, and I feel this is particularly true in the design field, is if you can't
    use the standard programs, you can't get a job. No matter how many times you've
    used InDesign for example, if you don't know Quark as well, you don't get hired.
    Sometimes the tools are more important than the talent. This I think is unfortunate.
    I would be willing to give Fontforge a try once things get a little less hectic
    for me.\r\n\r\nHrant, good or bad, having money (or the lack thereof) is a significant
    motivator. Also...here's an idea: instead of saying things like \"utter rubbish\"
    why not just say \"I disagree\". It comes off much less condescending that way.
    :)"
  created: '2005-07-08 20:01:07'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "I disagree. \u201CUtter rubbish\u201D sounds much better."
  created: '2005-07-08 20:22:02'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Sergej,\r\n\r\nHow does that old Iditarod saw go? Oh, yeah...\"If you're
    not the lead dog, the view is always the same.\""
  created: '2005-07-08 20:52:33'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "\"I disagree. \u201CUtter rubbish\u201D sounds much better.\"\r\n\r\nSigh...\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-08 21:10:58'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "<em>Maybe we\u2019ll have a post here someday arguing about wich are better,
    Open Source or Commercial softs. Maybe some day, who knows?.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's
    like Windows vs. Mac. Why force yourself to use only one when you can use both?
    FontLab itself leverages open source software ([[Python]]) to extend its capabilities.
    That's part of what makes it so powerful.\r\n\r\nOpen source software does have
    a price: you need to participate in its debugging and development to get the most
    out of it. Well, so be it. It's good for you.\r\n\r\n[[FontForge]] is the best
    software for doing anything with [[Apple Advanced Typography]]. I don't know how
    important [[AAT]] will be six months from now, but you're not hurting FontLab
    by using FontForge. You can still buy and use [[FontLab]]. Different jobs, different
    tools.\r\n\r\nPedro, I salute and applaud your efforts and hope to get involved
    eventually."
  created: '2005-07-08 22:13:41'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "I would like to see more opinions here on Pedro's idea of developing a typeface
    on open source lines. My gut feeling is that it will not work. \r\n\r\nOpen source
    projects prosper when they meet a common need. The Linux kernel filled a gap in
    the GNU system, and was rapidly adopted and developed. The whole thing appeared
    to grow magically. But it it was not magic, just people helping each other towards
    a common aim.\r\n\r\nIs there a common need for a particular typeface, such that
    many people would wish to contribute to its development? And how would they contribute?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-09 00:23:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Terry, I can only assume you write what you mean. Look back carefully at
    exactly what I objected to. Previously you've been sloppy with interpreting what
    I've written; don't get angy at me for not doing to same to you! As for the words
    I use, they're intended to reflect the different levels and types of emotion I'm
    feeling. It's my duty to be clearly understood, and then others can decide what
    to feel/think/do in turn. I do not manipulate.\r\n\r\nAnyway, my point was:\r\nAnybody
    who really believes in his heart that money makes the world go 'round can never
    make really good type (or really good software for making type).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-09 06:56:56'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Anyway Hrant, I think you misunderstood me. You reacted without really asking
    for clarification in what I meant. I'm only saying that money can cause huge problems,
    and can be a great benefit. If that weren't true, there'd be no G8 summit going
    on now. That's all I mean, nothing more. \r\n\r\nI like when people express themselves,
    I just think it can be tactful. Your comments come off very rude and condescending
    and I'm certainly not the only one who feels that way. Alas, it is my problem
    in thinking I can get you to change and be more respectful of others. So, I won't
    bug you again about it. \r\n\r\n\"Pedro, I salute and applaud your efforts and
    hope to get involved eventually.\"\r\nDitto for me as well."
  created: '2005-07-09 21:45:35'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\r\nPedro, \r\n\r\nLiveType is a trademark of Apple used in context of fonts:
    \r\nhttp://www.apple.com/legal/trademark/appletmlist.html\r\nTherefore, you might
    want to come up with a different name for the project. \r\n\r\nOther than that,
    I think the project is interesting. I've tried using FontForge myself several
    times and in the end I have always given up and reverted to something else (FontLab,
    the Apple ftx tools, TTX) but I still am very impressed with George Williams'
    work. I've been using his little fondu utility (to convert between .dfont and
    .ttf) myself. Very useful. \r\n\r\nThe more different tools are available the
    better. I wish George decides at some point to integrate FontForge with Python
    -- the ability to tie together FontLab, FontForge and TTX in different steps of
    a workflow could be really interesting. \r\n\r\nI don't think the availability
    of free fonts or free tools can harm. It drives competition, makes the tools available
    to people who couldn't afford commercial software etc. \r\n\r\nMost end-user open-source
    products I know are emulating existing commercial software: OpenOffice wouldn't
    exist without Microsoft Word, Firefox wouldn't exist without Netscape Navigator,
    Internet Explorer and Opera. Plus, one needs to remember that open source software
    often isn't really \"free\": a lot of open source software is being developed
    as research projects at universities and institutes, often state-funded. So it's
    all tax payers who pay for the development rather than the individual users. I
    believe that both methods of funding have their advantages and need to co-exist.
    \r\n\r\nAs John Butler points out, we at Fontlab Ltd. have been using open source
    software in our software a lot, for example Python, FreeType and FontTools/TTX.
    I don't think that there necessarily has to be an either-or for FontLab and FontForge.
    Similarly, I'll gladly see free fonts to exist along with commercial fonts. \r\n\r\nRegards,
    \r\nAdam\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-09 23:16:25'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Almost forgot\u2026 my Faculty does not have the budget \r\n> to acquire
    a Fontlab license right now\u2026 is this \r\n> sad or what? ;)\r\n\r\nPlease
    remember that Fontlab Ltd. offers 50% up to even 80% discounts to academic users
    of our software. This applies not only to FontLab but also to TypeTool and Fontographer:
    \r\nhttp://www.fontlab.com/Font-utilities/Academic-Purchases/\r\n\r\nRegards,
    \r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd. \r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: pedamado
      picture: 109812
    body: "Adam:\r\n\r\nThanks for the Apple Trademark warning. Ever since I satrted
      the project at Sourceforge I've been wondering if I can get away with LiveType
      Project as a name... gess not!\r\n\r\nKnowing this is a collaborative project
      I wonder if I should open up a thread to <strong>discuss suggestions about a
      new name</strong>. After all I'll have to change it before the next site update
      or it'll just be dumb of me! \r\n\r\n<cite>I believe that both methods of funding
      have their advantages and need to co-exist.</cite>\r\nI'm glad you feel this
      way too. With the recent European Union Software Patents law rejected earlier
      this week I feel bit more confident in the future ;)\r\n\r\n<cite>Please remember
      that Fontlab Ltd. offers 50% up to even 80% discounts to academic users of our
      software. This applies not only to FontLab but also to TypeTool and Fontographer</cite>\r\nUnfortunatelly
      the budget decisions are not mine to make... but as these lines are read the
      Faculty Council is probably analising a software acquisition proposal that contemplates
      Fontlab licences. Nowadays we seem to be lacking everything! Maybe it's this
      year... Thanks for reminding me of the academic licenses though.\r\n\r\nCheers,
      and keep up the good work at Fontlab!\r\nPedro\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\r\n<a href=\"http://livetype.sourceforge.net\">LiveType
      Project</a>"
    created: '2005-07-13 02:13:24'
  created: '2005-07-09 23:21:47'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Terry wrote:\r\n<em>No offense to anyone, but I have yet to see a freeware
    program that has been anywhere remotely close in terms of quality to a commercial
    program.</em>\r\n\r\nHey, don't knock open source... This site (and countless
    others) are built with PHP, an open-source client-side scripting language that
    rivals ASP, .NET and ColdFusion. It's caught on widely because it's free and because
    there are lots of eager people wanting to see it succeed. It also works because
    it is produces quality results.\r\n\r\n(Of course, I'm speaking as someone who
    hasn't used FontForge... ;-)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: pedamado
      picture: 109812
    body: "Right on Joe!\r\n\r\nTerry wrote:\r\n<cite>No offense to anyone, but I
      have yet to see a freeware program that has been anywhere remotely close in
      terms of quality to a commercial program.</cite>\r\n\r\nJoe wrote:\r\n<cite>Hey,
      don\u2019t knock open source\u2026 This site (and countless others) are built
      with PHP, an open-source client-side scripting language that rivals ASP, .NET
      and ColdFusion.</cite> \r\n\r\nJust to give an example of this <strong>people
      often forget that <a href=\"http://www.apache.org/\">Apache</a> is an Open Source
      project and yet is one of the most used webservers all over.</strong>\r\n\r\nJoe
      wrote:\r\n<cite>It\u2019s caught on widely because it\u2019s free and because
      there are lots of eager people wanting to see it succeed.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n<a
      href=\"http://livetype.sourceforge.net\">LiveType Project</a>"
    created: '2005-07-13 01:55:53'
  created: '2005-07-11 09:00:18'
- author:
    name: shawkash
    picture: 110759
  body: "Let me all try to cut the edge.\r\nBriefly, I am learning these days Linux,
    and I have installed in my computer Linux Fedora Core. I want to say the topic
    of free software comeing from Sourceforgue is great idea. But I want to point
    out some problems I have faced in Linux developement and promoting.\r\n\r\n1-
    The graphics softwares are not friendly users! I know for an example that GIMP
    software has more features than Photoshop. But let's face it the enterface of
    Photoshop is well designed and make me safe my time.\r\n\r\n2- The problem of
    Linux people that they think the MAC, and Windows users can easily go to LINUX
    and use its softwares in 2 days.. or more, while it is wrong. I spent alot of
    my time trying to learn LINUX it is more secure and more stable system I agree,
    but it is very hard one. Same for most graphics softwares there, they need time
    to learn, they need resources.. and Who has time to learn a new software after
    spending our money in Fontlab? You guys should think more from marketing point
    of view rather than thinking from the view of some programmers want to show that
    they are better than microsoft. You challange in graphics is not against microsoft,
    nor against MAC. You are against names like Adobe and Macromedia who don't make
    their softwares for free. And if you really can make a better software for free
    you need more than being just a clever programmer. \r\n\r\n3- I didn't find till
    now any software designed for our PRINT industry.. most graphics of Linux are
    for screens even SVG programs. I didn't find a software  that I can make my prepress
    on it. Nor a software like Adobe InDesign or Quark Xpress!\r\n\r\n4- When I look
    at the interface design, I found that it depend on Helvitica font, and others..
    but there is no font designed for screens. There is no Trebuchet, nor Verdana.
    I understand you guys dislike Microsoft, but Helvitica looks really distorted
    in screen!\r\n\r\nThank you for your time, NOTE that I am just new linux user,
    but may be my nots make sense for you. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: pedamado
      picture: 109812
    body: "Congratulations for your decision on trying out a Linux Distro.\r\nAnd
      yet no one said it would be easy. <strong>I've also been trying to adapt for
      several months to Linux OS</strong> (I've only tried Ubuntu, Knoppix and Fedora).
      JUST DON'T GIVE UP so soon.\r\n\r\nYes. Linux is still far from being <em>user
      friendly...</em>\r\nNevertheless it doesn't take you long to get used to well
      develop software like The Gimp. You have to keep an open mind to it. Hey, I
      remember the first time I used a Mac I got my floppy disk \"stuck\" inside the
      drive. It took me two days just to learn how to < command +  e > it. As a windows
      user, I also bitched about how <cite>Mac people thought windows users could
      learn how to use MacOS in two days...<cite>\r\n\r\nSoftware takes time to learn.
      That's true. But, are you still using Quark 4.0? Or MacOS 8.6?\r\n\r\nWhat if
      you could learn the inside rules of your particular task and then adapt the
      methods used to accomplish it? This is what I'm saying. You CAN learn how to
      compose type, and then DO it different ways, like with Quark, InDesign, Pagemaker,
      MS Word, Windows MacOS,... Linux? The better you know how to compose (and the
      more practice you get) the easier it gets. And there's more - the more different
      methods you use, the easier it'll be to adapt to a new situation. Now just change
      the word \"method\" to \"software\" and the word \"situation\" to \"job\" or
      \"operating system\" and you'll see what I mean ;) \r\n\r\nI'm not saying \"give
      me a stick and some glue and I'll build you a steamboat!\" You have to have
      the proper tools to do good job, but you can also accomplish it with alternative
      tools. Nowadays you have to become more and more versatile. You never know what
      the future holds for you... (actually this is my mother's speech...)\r\n\r\nIf
      you're really into self improvement you'll keep learning tools on your spare
      time (like I'm trying to do) so you can eventually adapt easier. Whattheheck,
      I've already had to do a commercial 40 page booklet on MS Word!!! Who the hell
      wants to use word to do this??? I'd rather do it on Open Source Software like
      Scribus. \r\nSpeaking of Scribus...\r\n\r\n<cite>I didn\u2019t find till now
      any software designed for our PRINT industry...</cite>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.scribus.org.uk/index.php\">Scribus</a>
      - It seems you didn't look enough...\r\n\r\n<cite>I didn\u2019t find a software
      that I can make my prepress on it.</cite>\r\nWell some seems to have found a
      way to do it with Scribus. <a href=\"http://www.scribus.org.uk/modules.php?op=modload&name=News&file=article&sid=75&mode=thread&order=0&thold=0\">Check
      these news.</a> Like this one there are plenty of cases (at least in the EUA).
      Just check their website.\r\n\r\nSo far I've kind of agreed to Linux is not
      easy or user friendly, the transition is hard, it takes time, and lots of patience,
      but if there's one thing I really don't agree with you is <cite>You challange
      in graphics is not against microsoft, nor against MAC. You are against names
      like Adobe and Macromedia who don\u2019t make their softwares for free.</cite>\r\n\r\n<strong>First</strong>,
      I believe on hard earned money. And believe me, specially those guys at Adobe
      deserve it.\r\n<strong>Second</strong>, I'm writing these words on a Windows
      PC.\r\n<strong>Third</strong>, who the hell is complaining about software not
      being for free? Just trying to find decent alternatives, trying to learn more.\r\n<strong>Finally</strong>
      if Adobe were to create an OS... UAU! Is someone at Adobe reading this? Hello?
      Adobe OS? How cool would it be? I would buy it for sure!\r\n\r\n<cite>I am just
      new linux user, but may be my nots make sense for you.</cite>\r\nAlthough it
      may not seem to, but <strong>I relate to what you're saying more than you can
      imagine</strong>. Here, now is currently 1:40 AM. I still have to check my e-mail
      on Windows MS Outlook go to bed, get up at 8:30 AM, go to work no Macromedia
      and Adobe based MacOSX machine, and, if I'm lucky, tomorrow night I'll boot
      Fedora Core to start sketching the Uppercase Diacritics for LiveType Project...
      I think the main thing is not giving up! That's life...\r\n\r\nCheers, and cheer
      up! Maybe some day it'll be you giving advice not to give up on Open Source.\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n<a
      href=\"http://livetype.sourceforge.net\">LiveType Project</a>"
    created: '2005-07-13 01:48:41'
  created: '2005-07-11 14:38:17'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\r\n> Congratulations for your decision on trying \r\n> out a Linux Distro.\r\n\r\nSeriously
    speaking, I personally see no reason why I should use Linux. Mac OS X is a solid
    Unix-based system that includes a X11 graphic environment as well as a very good
    Mac OS X Cocoa graphic environment. With Microsoft Virtual PC, you can run Windows
    on it. On my Mac OS X, I can run Mac Classic, Mac OS X, Unix and Windows applications
    side-by-side. See the screenshot that shows Fontographer 4.1 for Mac OS 9, FontLab
    4.6 for Mac OS X, FontLab Studio 5 for Windows and Font Forge on X11 running at
    the same time: \r\nhttp://www.twardoch.com/tmp/osxfonttools.png\r\n\r\nRegards,
    \r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: pedamado
      picture: 109812
    body: "Yikes! :O\r\n\r\nThis is what I mean! Versatility!\r\nYou sir, <strong>you
      deserve my respect!</strong>\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nPedro\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\r\n<a
      href=\"http://livetype.sourceforge.net\">LiveType Project</a>"
    created: '2005-07-13 14:56:42'
  created: '2005-07-13 12:14:20'
date: '2005-07-07 17:53:23'
title: LiveType Project - Open Source Collaborative Type Design

---
