---
author:
  name: peleg
body: "this logo is to present me as a freelance graphic designer.\r\nThe main goals
  in this logo were: Simple, clean and colorful.\r\nAlso notice, that the rounded
  shapes are making the letter 'x'.\r\nThe font I used is 'Century Gothic Regular'\r\n\r\nI
  know that a lot of work is ahead of me and I will appreciate your feedback.\r\n-I'll
  also appreciate if you will let me know about logos that are resemble to this logo."
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Solid start. Could concept. I think you will find, however, that those colors
    have been used in such a way many times before, and perhaps it would be good to
    pick colors which are a little less expected. Maybe?\r\n\r\nI thought of this
    game instantly upon seeing your logo -- http://www.bigredtoybox.com/articles/simonindex.shtml
    -- not to say yours is wrong or bad, but perhaps needs a little more work.\r\n\r\nFutura
    Maxi isn't bad, but perhaps you should use something contrasting for the sub?"
  created: '2005-07-08 21:03:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Keep going!
  created: '2005-07-08 21:26:00'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Good start. I agree with tiffany about the colors (and the Simon Says thing).\r\n\r\nI
    don't like Twentieth Century, and almost always prefer Futura. But that's a personal
    taste issue. Also, watch the spacing between the 's' and the 'e'. It's a little
    tight, so open it up just a little. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: peleg
    body: "hi all, thank you so much for commenting.\r\n\r\nIn reply to anticowboyism:
      No, my name is not sevex, its my nick.\r\nfor the removel of the 'er' - you
      right, I'll fix that later on.\r\n\r\nI decided to change the type completely
      and did somthing else.\r\nI streached the type a lot, and the E's got kind of
      a Nine'ish look, which I think turned out kind of uniqe.\r\n\r\nThe symbol also
      Changed. A circle frame was added and the connection to the 'X' on the logo
      brought out more.\r\nThe 'V' turned out like 'U', I tried to give her one cornery
      buttom but I think it ruined the whole image.\r\n\r\nLogotype\r\nhttp://img83.imageshack.us/img83/1753/lgotyp5vt.gif\r\n\r\nThe
      two versions of the logo symbol\r\nhttp://img60.imageshack.us/img60/3113/lgosymbol8fv.gif\r\n\r\nLogo
      Hues\r\nhttp://img60.imageshack.us/img60/9364/shues9ii.gif\r\n\r\nI'd love to
      hear more feedback or propositions\r\n"
    children:
    - author:
        name: adnix
        picture: 109591
      body: "Sorry, but that v really looks like a u. Try different variations of
        one corner bottom. Perhaps one with a tighter curve versus a 90 degree angle.\r\n\r\nWhy
        does the symbol refer to the last letter in the name? Shouldn't it refer to
        the first letter? It will help reinforce your clients memorizing your name.\r\n\r\n"
      created: '2005-07-09 01:36:01'
    created: '2005-07-09 00:16:55'
  created: '2005-07-08 22:49:00'
- author:
    name: anticowboyism
  body: "I'm thinking nbc, trivial persuit, simon says\u2026 In other words, you definitely
    should change the colors to something less common. Primary colors give off a family
    friendly appeal; I doubt that was the intention.\r\n\r\nCheck out a Sans with
    a slight curve to the end like Optima that might flow better with the X mark.\r\n\r\nOne
    last thing that stood out to me: Is your name Sevex? The tag line Freelance Graphic
    Designer leads me to believe that I need to speak with someone named Sevex. If
    that is not your intention, you may try a variant such as Freelance Graphic Design,
    without the er.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-08 23:59:22'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "The non-rounded letters shouldn't exactly align with the rounded characters,
    reduce their height slightly, otherwise they burst out of the top (and bottom)
    of the logo. The top half of the E could be improved by increasing it, it looks
    as if it is leaning back, this will also address the kerning at EV. The V is definitely
    a problem since a potential viewer would not have any reference and would conclude
    it is a U I think you will have to abandon your skeleton and work with a more
    conventional form. Overall the construction has problems with an uneven colour
    especially dark at the centre of the X and Es and while EVEX are all monoline
    the S is light at the centre. The symbol is working best for me as per the left
    hand column.\r\nTim"
  children:
  - author:
      name: peleg
    body: "timd - thank you for your advices, the logo make much more sense now with
      the flat-head characters shortend.\r\n\r\nafter awhile looking at it, I wasnt
      happy from the way my last logo was going. I wanted to preserve the circularity
      of the first concept, and to give him more of a younger look.\r\nThe color scheme
      also changed.\r\n\r\nabout the symbol - Im working on him right now. \r\n[I
      chose to include the letter 'X' in the symbol mainly because of her weight on
      'sevex'. the 'x' is also in association with unity, ways that cross each other,two
      lines that meets, and the 'x' also draw more focus than the 's'.]\r\n\r\nhttp://img273.imageshack.us/img273/1681/logoconceptopt7iz.gif\r\n"
    created: '2005-07-09 17:40:58'
  created: '2005-07-09 11:11:35'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "Is that 'Arial', you set the new version of your 'Logo' in.? :)\r\n\r\n<em>(
    Sorry, but I dont think thats suuuch a good choice of type, for a logotype.. :)
    Please allow me to repost, what I posted as a reply before, in another thread.:
    '..I dont want to sound too harsh, but.: So what you basically did yet is set
    your words, using a pretty 'standard', more than common typeface.? I am not too
    sure about that being very unique, or memorable, what about you.? This could be
    for everything.. You could have tried to, at least, slightly customize / modify
    the type.. But, I think you may want to return to sketching and scribbling various
    ideas on paper ( again ), instead of starting out with 'just' setting type on
    screen..' )</em>"
  children:
  - author:
      name: peleg
    body: "'Arial' indeed. traced upon actually, and modified a bit.\r\nI have no
      problem in using standart fonts, especially when it meets my needs.\r\nBut I
      see the slight modifications I did is yet to overcome the result that im aiming
      for.\r\n\r\nI will definetly try more variations to this logo, this is just
      the beginning and more updates are sure to come."
    created: '2005-07-09 20:58:40'
  created: '2005-07-09 18:48:10'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Uh oh.
  created: '2005-07-09 18:48:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yeah, you can't expect the 1st 2 or 3 ideas to be the best. Sometimes they
    are but it's good to keep trying things until you have hashed out your ideas well.
    I am wondering what you want a client to think Sevex is. That isn't clear to me
    yet. How do you want people to feel/think when they see your mark. I am a big
    fan of intentional design. So far I would assume your design is for a hair salon
    or a night club - or maybe some kind of sports food. It doesn't make me think
    illustrator too much yet.
  created: '2005-07-11 01:10:10'
- author:
    name: aheep
  body: You'll want to work on the spacing inside the last version of the logo that
    you posted. From what I measured there was more space between the words and edge
    on the left side and bottom. If there isn't physically a difference, there was
    definitely a visual difference.
  created: '2005-07-13 07:24:42'
- author:
    name: peleg
  body: "Alright, some updates:\r\n\r\nI sketched a lot until I reached for this concept,
    and I liked the look Visual illusion very much (pay attention to the 'X's).\r\nthe
    type also got much heavier.\r\n\r\nsome feedback on this new version would be
    great.\r\nhttp://img55.imageshack.us/img55/7308/publishtoweb2by.jpg\r\n\r\nthank
    you"
  created: '2005-07-19 22:32:27'
- author:
    name: Fredrik
    picture: 110755
  body: "Maybe not the kind of feedback you are looking for, but I think the name
    of your freelancing business invokes the wrong kind of connotations.\r\nIt sounds
    more FedEx, telecom, largish anonymous tech company, than it does creative designer/illustrator.
    The Pepsi-looking type re-inforces this, I feel."
  created: '2005-07-20 00:32:05'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: I dig the solid color version of the logo, but not the b&w outline version
    or the gradient versions. The SEVEX text is the best so far, but I don't think
    the face you chose for the tagline goes with the geometrical feel of the SEVEX.
  created: '2005-07-20 01:06:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I would make your S a little more interesting - Give it more flow. And the
    bottom of the V needs to come down a little & overshoot to look right. It''s getting
    better. I do worry about the icon part of the logo notworking in black & white.
    I think thats a basic feature of an icon used in this context. Keep going. '
  created: '2005-07-20 05:17:10'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Is it me or does the interlocking mark look distorted. If it was fabric wouldn't
    there be a slight offset where one layer tucks under the other. It looks like
    the intersections are "to direct" giving the illusion of pieces put together and
    not a whole unit.
  created: '2005-07-20 12:44:02'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I like the \"Escher\" quality of the mark I prefer the gradient version without
    the stroke because that accentuates the three dimensional ribbon. The outline
    version looks rather light next to the type maybe just a case of increasing the
    weight (I say just but I suppose it would have implications on the stroke ends).
    You could also develop a black version of the mark with gradients. As Eben notes
    the apex of the V needs to be lowered a touch.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-07-20 14:33:44'
- author:
    name: timfm
    picture: 110404
  body: I'd like to see what setting "Freelance Graphic Design" in small/all caps
    looks like.
  created: '2005-07-25 00:53:56'
- author:
    name: peleg
  body: "After much work I came out with those symbols, and updated the type to a
    much lighter and taller version.\r\nI favor version 'C' the most - the concept
    is ink drops in Cyan-Magenta-Yellow colors come out from the center and forming
    an 'X' on the middle.\r\n----\r\n<a href=\"http://img233.imageshack.us/img233/2631/publish03file0vw.jpg\">Update
    no.4</a>"
  created: '2005-07-26 22:34:30'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: A&B look like logos from the X-Men comic books. I agree with you that C is
    the best of the lot, but it still doesn't wow me.
  created: '2005-07-27 01:43:51'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Deffinitively E. The colors look like taken out of a comic book plus clients
    are certainly not familiar with cmyk. Because of the abstract quality of your
    sign you must rely on a good color combination as a referential code, you could
    try also textures as references.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-07-27 05:45:03'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I think if you are going to reference 4 colour process in your logo you should
    include black as something more than a stroke. The stroke on D and E is weak compared
    to the type. C resembles a propeller to me rather than ink drops, maybe a highlight
    would make them seem more droplike. \r\nThe stroke weight of your logotype is
    inconsistent, the centre bar of the S in particular is not working and the whole
    is a bit narrow, the X is too wide especially compared to the S, on the first
    E the final stroke could be extended to close up the space with the V and both
    Es seem to be lighter on the left.\r\nAs a final point the print and production
    is going to be expensive and the registration is going to be critical.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-07-27 11:18:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Keep in mind X can mean means cancel, avoid that reference. Also most of your
    marks look like you are a printer not a designer. All printing companies use CMYK
    colors, you shouldn't. I don't love your justified type Free Lance Designer, it
    says rigid not flexible. I also think you need more space between any mark you
    make and the words.
  created: '2005-07-27 12:34:49'
- author:
    name: peleg
  body: "I refined The logotype a little bit, The 'S' got more wider and rounded.\r\nFor
    the symbol, I Decided to stay with the \u201CEscher-like-X\u201D, I think its
    the best.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://img121.imageshack.us/img121/9479/logotypefixed019fs.jpg\">Update
    no.5</a>"
  created: '2005-07-27 18:50:02'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "#2 is better than #1 just because the stroke weights are too heavy and will
    probably bleed together in printing.\r\n\r\nTry one more iteration with just solids,
    no gradients.\r\n\r\nDitch the fake small caps and just go all caps for the subheader."
  created: '2005-07-27 21:57:41'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: Also, try a heavier weight of the typeface you used for SEVEX. It's too light
    in comparison to the icon.
  created: '2005-07-27 21:59:07'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'The mark (in my opinion) is to large compared to the type. I agree with adnix
    try a version with solid colors no gradients. '
  created: '2005-07-27 23:00:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Maybe it's just my interest in typography but it seems like a single part
    logo ( just the name) would be cooler where letter design was the thing that carried
    the day rather than this two part model. I did make a stab at working with your
    elements just to see what would happen. Here it is if you want to check it out.
    \ http://www.eyebytes.com/sevex.jpg \r\n\r\nI think the top of the v & x enternd
    too far & the e looks like an egg. It isn't working for me.\r\n\r\nRight now neither
    the name or the mark are cool enough on their own. But they are not cooler together
    either - there is no synergy here in my opinion.\r\n\r\nAlso I still don't get
    what sevex means - this is going to sound harsh even though I mean it  with all
    sympathy -  I think that this identity isn't going to be great until you start
    letting go of the work you have done & ask yourself what your goals are & what
    might meet those goals better than what you have so far. This could mean tossing
    out the mark & even the name if need be. \r\n\r\nWhat kind of illustration & graphic
    design do you do?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 23:46:43'
- author:
    name: peleg
  body: "I'm designing print media, Internet graphics (Illustration and web-design)
    and Idendity.\r\nSevex is a virtual nickname that I carried around since I was
    in the Internet (which is quite a long time).\r\n\r\nThe goals I assigned for
    myself in the beginning of the process are symple, clean and colorful Idendity
    which will present me as a grpahic designer.\r\nI can come up with a new name,
    since it is yet-to-born business. but I like the current one, it has an eye-catching
    look and abstract feeling\r\nto it, dont you think?\r\n\r\nFor the Synergy, I'll
    just keep working on it."
  created: '2005-07-28 00:49:49'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I like the look of 1 although there is still room for improvement in the
    middle of the S, the V and X are a little too big, the escher-like image may look
    better a bit (but only a little) tighter to the logo and vertically centred on
    SEVEX, and the graphic design line would look better in all caps and will probably
    need to be larger to work at small sizes. I don't really see a problem with the
    weight of the strokes in a printing context.\r\nAlso I like the mystery of the
    name I really don't see why the name, in this case, should mean anything as long
    as it is catchy and memorable; the X mark needn't have negative connotations as
    in vote cast, x marks the spot etc.\r\nGetting there\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-07-28 09:46:31'
- author:
    name: peleg
  body: "Here are some solid color veriations. I also got the 'S', 'X' and 'V' fixed
    + refined The subheader.\r\n----\r\n<a href=\"http://img196.imageshack.us/img196/6811/version01topublish0co.gif\">Update
    no.6</a>"
  created: '2005-07-28 21:13:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: '#9 seems the most tasty.  I wonder if the ''graphic design aught to be centered
    under  sevex. Also I wonder about getting the ''mark'' to tie into sevex by maling
    the weight of the lines more similar to those in sevex so they clearly rel;ate
    to each other. Therer is some restraint in 9 that has been lacking up to now.
    cool.'
  created: '2005-07-28 23:28:38'
- author:
    name: peleg
  body: "I added blue color instead of the dark green In the symbol.\r\nI think I
    finished by that, what do you say?\r\n----\r\n<a href=\"<a href=\"http://typophile.com\">Typophile</a>\">Update
    no.7</a>"
  created: '2005-07-29 22:16:28'
- author:
    name: peleg
  body: Sorry, here is the <a href="http://img297.imageshack.us/img297/7668/version03topublish6ea.gif">file.</a>
  created: '2005-07-29 23:13:29'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Looks good, I am still not convinced by the weight of the stroke in the middle
    of the S though, of course if you are, it is finished. Hope it assists you in
    your business.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-08-01 14:08:36'
- author:
    name: BartvanderGriendt
    picture: 109896
  body: "I agree with Eben - allthough you go through great lengths refining the design,
    which has it merits, the communicative value of the logo isn't up to par. \r\n\r\nThe
    icon tells me something about complexity and simplicity. This is good - making
    the complicated simple is a designer's core business. The friendly colours work
    as well; they warm up the hard lines.\r\n\r\nThe name and the type are something
    else, though. It might be my cultural background, but Sevex has a very harsh ring
    to me. It sounds latin to me, a word I would associate with a roman warrior or
    a very synthetic compound. The type doesn't soften this harshness - although it
    is somewhat rounded, the letters are too skinny to make this felt.\r\n\r\nSo if
    this were a choir, the different singers are very much out of tune. \r\n\r\nIn
    what you write I feel you are very attached to the name - for it's history as
    a nickname. But an Internetnick is very, very different from a graphic design
    business. I might sound a bit blunt, but I think a different name might make this
    a good logo in stead of a passable one.\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nMy
    work is a game. A very serious game [M.C. Escher]"
  created: '2005-08-02 16:05:33'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Looks good but also looks like a simple variation of the Windows branding
    system.
  created: '2005-08-02 23:14:34'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Hmmm... I don't get that.
  created: '2005-08-03 05:34:59'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: I thought that as well. The colour scheme (equal parts of red, blue, yellow,
    green aranged four-square) definitely brings Microsoft to mind.
  created: '2005-08-03 15:26:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Microsoft -  yeah. Totally. It seems obvious. It may look to clients like
    your are trying to ride their coattails & this won't feel good. That is why I
    liked 9 - and the incomplete feeling it had was more eye catching. \r\n\r\nThe
    middle of the s in sevex is weak. It looks too thin. \r\n\r\nI think if you are
    in the middle east sevex sounds positively soft next to all the glottal stops
    ( if thats what they are called) in hebrew & arabic.\r\n\r\nBart makes some good
    points!"
  created: '2005-08-03 20:29:01'
date: '2005-07-08 20:20:53'
title: sevex - personal logo

---
