---
author:
  name: TBiddy
  picture: 110666
body: I'm a beginner and I'm going to be starting my first true [[italic]] font soon.
  Since the letterforms are drawn differently than a completely vertical roman does
  anyone have any tips or tricks for constructing the forms digitally?
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What does the Roman look like?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-11 16:57:21'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Its sans-serif. I don't have it completed yet, and I'm reluctant to post it
    since I'm still tweaking it.
  created: '2005-07-11 20:48:29'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: 'It will also be for a transportation signage application, so legibility will
    be a concern (i.e. the "a" will be two-story as opposed to the traditional one-story
    italic). It is influenced mainly by Frutiger, Gill Sans, and Thesis but more condensed
    than all of them. '
  created: '2005-07-11 20:52:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If the Roman is more \"constructed\" than chirographic, I would base the
    italic closely on a slanted form of the Roman. And I wouldn't make a chirographic
    Roman.  :-)\r\n\r\nWhen I use the term \"true Italic\" (in the way it's generally
    used in the craft) I always make sure to put the \"true\" in quotes; sometimes
    I even slap on \"so-called\".  :-)\r\n\r\nThe main true thing about an Italic
    (in a contemporary text face) is that it needs to stand out enough to make the
    reader snap out of immersion (from the previous fixation only, not before) but
    affect the \"mood\" of the overall (i.e. Roman) as little as possible. So-called
    \"true\" italics fail at the second part, because you can't assume the emphasized
    snippet is associated with a more organic, informal tone; you can only assume
    that it's a snippet that needs extra focus. The one thing Morison was right about
    (in spite of himself, but certainly helped by his plagiaristic tendencies) is
    that cursiveness is not integral to an Italic; slant is. The persistent cursiveness
    of the mainstream Italic is nothing more than a circumstantial legacy, from back
    when type founders decided to fall back on a shotgun wedding between two separate
    styles.\r\n\r\nYou're young, you're just starting - do the right thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-11 21:04:32'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Terry,\r\n\r\nI didn't want your request for advice to dwindle down.\r\nI
    think the wording of your forum topic \"Tips for Constructing True Italics\" is
    really not your primary concern.\r\n\r\nFrom what I gather from this and other
    posts you have made is that you do have a deep interest and concern about wayfinding
    systems, traffic and highway sign legibility/readability, and exploring the development
    and use of symbols for the above applications.\r\n\r\nNever have we in the USA
    needed more rethinking about the importance of environmental and transportation
    signage.\r\n\r\nThe \"Baby Boomers\" are hitting their 50s-60s in age... eyes
    and reaction time are just not what they used to be, especially when you're driving
    you SUV at 80 mph! In addition, there are more non-English speaking/reading individuals
    on the road and using transportation systems today. \r\n\r\nUnless critical information
    is conveyed with some degree of clarity, on the road, in public transportation,
    for building information, us old hippies and visitors from other lands are going
    to cause one hell of a traffic mishap!\r\n\r\nSo I guess what I'm saying is, you
    probably are less concerned about \"so called\" \"true\" italics than with the
    critical issue of readability under a myriad of circumstances... right?\r\n\r\nYou
    may have read this already:\r\n<a href=\"http://gulliver.trb.org/publications/millennium/00143.pdf\"
    target=\"new\"><strong>Vehicle User Characteristics: Research Needs in the New
    Millennium</strong></a> -- <em>Note: PDF download link.</em>\r\nIt's a call to
    revisit transportation signage by the Committee on Vehicle User Characteristics.\r\n\r\nI
    honestly think that new solutions for environmental/wayfinding systems are way
    past due, and to me, far more important than a \"true cut\" italic.\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, and need glasses too!"
  created: '2005-07-13 19:21:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Yes, I\u2019m old, and need glasses too!\"\r\n\r\nNorbert,\r\nYou can borrow
    my glasses, they don't seem to work too well for me anymore :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-13 20:29:19'
- author:
    name: mica
    picture: 110163
  body: '<a href="http://www.marksimonson.com/article/128/fake-vs-true-italics">Mark
    Simonson</a> has a short article on his website about fake vs. true italics. There
    isn''t anything about technique, but there''s a nice example of the optical corrections
    that might give you some direction. '
  created: '2005-07-14 01:08:12'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "\"So I guess what I\u2019m saying is, you probably are less concerned about
    \u201Cso called\u201D \u201Ctrue\u201D italics than with the critical issue of
    readability under a myriad of circumstances\u2026 right?\"\r\n\r\nBTW, Norbert...your
    signatures always crack me up. For the task at hand, you pretty much hit the nail
    on the head. Though I must add, I do have an interest in understanding the proper
    craft. The answer is I want to make a \"true\" (note the parenthesis Hrant :)
    italic and one that meets legibility standards in an environmental setting. \r\n\r\nI
    want to interject some life and personality to a style of sans-serif face that
    is often thought of as being \"clinical\" and \"featureless\". I think Hrant's
    advice is what I'm going for: noticable enough to know the information is different,
    but not too different in style from the roman. \r\n\r\nAlso, Norbert I believe
    James (Montalbano) and Don Meeker used a study similar to that (if it actually
    isn't a study they used) when working on Clearview Highway. True James? \r\n\r\nThanks
    all for the input thus far."
  created: '2005-07-14 02:07:44'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "So, good...\r\nWe take the path less travelled and seek enlightenment on
    the journey.\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm, I,m (sob) I'm all choked up, you guys!"
  created: '2005-07-14 02:25:16'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "\"Cursiveness is a requirement for italics\" is a mite too dogmatic... Italic
    used to be a different aproach to drawing glyphs, compared to roman, based upon
    the writing styles of the time (renaissance). \r\nUsing an upright orientation
    for the italic companion to certain roman styles has been attempted and with a
    certain degree of success too (Van Krimpen comes to mind), so this approach is
    completely feasible AND more original...\r\nIn short, tbiddy, don't let \"dogma's\"
    block you from doing your own thing!"
  created: '2005-07-14 03:55:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Terry, I assume you already know about the Briem web site, but if not <a
    href="http://briem.ismennt.is/2/2.3.1a/2.3.1.01.notes.htm">here</a> it is. He
    has a lot of useful insights, including on italics. '
  created: '2005-07-14 04:06:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201CCursiveness is a requirement for italics\u201D is a mite too dogmatic\u2026\r\n\r\nJust
    to be clear: I agree (see above).\r\nIn fact, wait: I think it's wrong!  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    Using an upright orientation for the italic companion\r\n> to certain roman styles
    has been attempted and with a\r\n> certain degree of success too\r\n\r\nI don't
    know of any that I myself would call successful. Which makes sense, since the
    essential feature of an Italic is [visible] slant (although it doesn't have to
    be the only feature). This is why I think \"upright Italic\" is a misnomer; \"cursive
    Roman\" is much better.\r\n\r\nThat said, I think there are other ways to mark
    emphasis than an Italic; personally, I [generally] prefer a Demi weight. It's
    just that for cursiveness to be sufficient to make a reader snap out of immersion,
    it has to be so pronounced that it skews the voice of the whole composition strongly,
    and in an arbitrary direction.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-14 06:47:37'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Here are samples of the style of my Roman. I'm reworking this face now and
    emphasizing character shapes better my second time around.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.aigadesignjobs.org/public/portfolio_file.asp?user_id=77998&increment=false&order_no=5&t=\r\n\r\nIn
    this example I just used a sloped roman instead of redrawing all the characters."
  created: '2005-07-14 16:03:40'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Terry, many humanist faces have italics that are sort of hybrid obliques/true
    italics.\r\n\r\nFor instance, Frutiger Next's italics (Frutiger just had obliques).
    Most of the letters were just obliqued, but \"a\", \"e\", \"f\", \"g\", and \"q\"
    were drawn anew in a much \"truer\" style. I beleive that Compatil's new italics
    had some similar sort of story behind them, but I don't know the details. Maybe
    I'll have more info by TypeCon on that.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-14 16:17:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Yes, I\u2019m old, but I\u2019m, I,m (sob) I\u2019m all choked up,...\"\r\n\r\nI'm
    old but I'm spread instead of choked :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-14 18:08:35'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Mark Simonson has a short article on his website about fake vs. true
    italics. There isn\u2019t anything about technique, but there\u2019s a nice example
    of the optical corrections that might give you some direction.</em>\r\n\r\nI basically
    used the technique Briem describes (which William mentioned above) for Proxima
    Nova. I used a similar method that I worked out myself years ago when I did Proxima
    Sans, but I found Briem's technique to be more straightforward and reliable. I
    don't mean it's a no-brainer. There are always cases where you need to use your
    judgement. Also, because Proxima Nova was set up in FontLab as a multi-axis MM
    font during development, it was considerably more complicated to do the corrections.
    FontLab's facility for adding and deleting points has some unfortunate limitations
    when working with a MM font.\r\n\r\nIt should be noted, this kind of optical correction
    is necessary when slanting characters so they don't look distorted, but it's a
    completely separate issue from the <em>design</em> of a set of italics. In the
    case of Proxima Nova's design, the italics are minimally different from the roman,
    essentially a slanted version of the roman, except the lowercase \"a\" which changes
    to a one-story form."
  created: '2005-07-14 18:45:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"does anyone have any tips or tricks\" \r\n\r\n   Aside from the argument
    of terms, and what is Italic, if you are making a sloping style to compliment
    a non-sloping style, here is the general start to a sans. All ascents and descents,
    x-heights, cap heights and figure heights stay the same. (that's the good news).
    The widths are between 92% and 96% of the non-sloping style, the main stems are
    94% to 98% of the non-sloping style. The actual percentages you choose are ball-parked
    by the overall width and weight of the source, but depend ultimately on the eyes
    in your head. The reason for this is that the sloping of a style makes it wider,
    and heavier to the eye, and you need to fix that first, before you even slope.
    After you do, (8-11 degrees according to taste, size of use, and speed of traffic,
    you have lots of curves and diagonals to correct: curves between 4 and 5 o'clock
    and 10 and 11, you need to push out, between 1 and 2 o'clock, and 7 and 8 o'clock.
    pull in. The diagonals fall into two disturbed groups as well. The ones that,
    in house framing, would have stopped the slope from happening, need to be thinned,
    those that helped push it over need to be thickened. Then, you have to choose
    whether you're going to put all the points on extrema, and if so, you have to
    re-digitize, or if you use the green gem in FL to fix it up for ya, you'll want
    to make a copy to the mask beforehand, so you can see where that tool fails. Spacing
    should be about the same as the non-sloping style and you should be ready to proof..."
  created: '2005-07-14 19:03:28'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "To add to David's excellent commentary/suggestions... \r\nWorking with the
    \"Font Audit\" option on while tuning italics can be very handy. It allows you
    to keep a close eye on the point replacements of extrema by doing them individually
    if you wish. Better I find than the magical green optimize contour button.\r\n\r\nNow
    for spacing the italics..."
  created: '2005-07-14 19:38:01'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nthat was a remarkable amount of insightful directions/suggestions
    on creating obliques, all in one, clear, no-nonsense paragraph.\r\n\r\nTerry,\r\nI'm
    sorry, but I couldn't resist putting your sample in the context of a <a href=\"http://www.acmedigital.net/JianSabu/images/SouthFerry2.jpg\"
    target=\"new\">real Subway station</a>. Yes, I know it's South Ferry, but the
    perspective was almost a perfect match.\r\n\r\nIt's a very, very decent start
    and looks more than promising. My only small comment is (and it could be because
    of perspective) the letter spacing on the italics need to open up a little more.
    The Roman seems fine, even in perspective, which is probably a more common viewpoint
    for the commuter.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-14 19:39:32'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Norbert,\r\n\r\nNice work on the photomontage. The new Photoshop CS2 has
    a new function that makes this kind of stuff a lot easier: <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/products/photoshop/pop_vanishing.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">Vanishing Point</a>.  You can also paste selections in perspective."
  created: '2005-07-14 20:10:45'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Eric,\r\n\r\nI just realized that you're the designer behind Klavika, Locator,
    Stratum, and other beautiful typefaces!  I just love them, and I can't wait to
    be able to license some of them for future projects.\r\n\r\nP.S. Terry, sorry
    I didn't meant to take over the thread with my ramblings.  Love you in the bra!
    \ And I'm excited to see how your <em>italics</em> turn out!"
  created: '2005-07-14 20:15:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Norbert''s mock-up made me realize what I felt uneasy about the layout in
    the sample sign: not enough leading for the size of type. Also I don''t know about
    the pentagon, at least in that orientation. Letters that have two parts-B, S,
    R, often E, and numbers are smaller at the top. In that orientation the pentagon
    widens, contradicting the movement of the letters. Maybe a hexagon... '
  created: '2005-07-14 20:31:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Maybe a hexagon\u2026\r\n\r\nHmmm...\r\nWait, what about two overlapping
    squares at a 45-degree angle, eh?\r\nOh, sorry, it's for New York, not Detroit...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-14 20:37:22'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "\"Norbert\u2019s mock-up made me realize what I felt uneasy about the layout
    in the sample sign: not enough leading for the size of type. Also I don\u2019t
    know about the pentagon, at least in that orientation. Maybe a hexagon\u2026\"\r\n\r\nBelieve
    it or not those elements are actually pretty well thought out. The leading is
    set to the minimum signage standards based on viewing distance specified in the
    book \"Wayfinding: People, Signs, and Architecture\" by Paul Arthur and Romedi
    Passini. This is not to say that there isn't room for improvement. It should also
    be taken into account that these signs were made to be viewed on a small platform
    with the viewer being usually no more than 25 ft from the sign. For Norbert's
    placement (which is actually a *damn* good idea for sign placement) would mean
    that I would have to both increase the point size of the type and the leading.
    \r\n\r\nAs for the shape...it wasn't an arbitrary decision. What makes New York
    unique? It consists of 5 boroughs. The MTA operates in all 5 boroughs. Thus a
    5 sided shape (pentagon) and not a circle. Since it was my thesis project, I could
    get a little more theoretical with the approach. I also changed the shape to solidify
    a firm identity within the system. There is a constant repetition of the pentagon
    shape in my plans. I also have a borough/station identification system that makes
    use of the shape. It was an attempt to tie symbols with the type for quick, clear
    understanding. Alas, I'm sure a lot of people are going to think that's a load
    of hooey, so I'm flexible in the shape eventually changing."
  created: '2005-07-14 20:56:21'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: 'I added a Station ID image to the topic heading to show what I''m talking
    about. Some of the glyphs for my roman face are based on calligraphic letterforms. '
  created: '2005-07-14 21:04:40'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "...if you are making a sloping style to compliment a non-sloping style, here
    is the general start to a sans.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nwhat about serif? the same?"
  created: '2005-07-15 00:17:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"what about serif? the same?\"\r\n\r\nSans is a subset of serif, with the
    design of the serifs  and terminals themselves, topological differences between
    l.c. forms, and more subleties in angle variation pose additional challenges.
    Depending on the classification of the face, there can be a whole degree more
    in the slope of the l.c. than the caps. And in general it's a lot harder to design
    a serif italic, but this is coming with freedom from the rather rigid constraints
    of sloped sans, where going bonkers on the shapes of lowercase usually ends up
    with grinning type suitable only for bubblegum wrappers and packaging for paper
    products. "
  created: '2005-07-15 13:18:02'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Just wanted to say thank you to all for the useful advice.\r\n\r\n\"Also,
    because Proxima Nova was set up in FontLab as a multi-axis MM font during development,
    it was considerably more complicated to do the corrections.\"\r\n\r\nYikes...Mark,
    this worries me. I'm taking your workshop on Wednesday so hopefully I'll be able
    to talk to you more about this next week.\r\n\r\n\"Love you in the bra!\"\r\nThanks,
    Lauri. I custom made it myself! :)\r\n\r\nDavid, whoa...I'm going to have to paste
    that paragraph next to my computer. :)\r\n\r\nNorbert, I LOVED that rendering.
    I probably should actually take that step if I were to show my signs during a
    presentation.\r\n\r\nWilliam, I'm criticizing my post after your questioning of
    the pentagon. Re-reading my post it comes off a bit \"arrogant\" or \"defensive\"
    which wasn't my intent. If you or anyone else was offended, I apologize. Criticism
    is always welcome. "
  created: '2005-07-15 21:26:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Terry, your response was fine by me. I just didn't follow up because I didn't
    want to drag the thread off topic, which my off-topic post threatened to do. Thanks
    for getting the great technical stuff from those who know!\r\n\r\nTina, I think
    when David wrote 'this is the good news' about sans italics he was implying that
    you don't get that good news with seriffed faces. In some classic seriffed fonts,
    the italic ascender and x-heights and cap heights can all vary from the roman,
    and angles of different stems vary etc. So you have a lot more freedom and a lot
    more problems!  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 21:48:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, very gracious of you - thank you.\r\n\r\n> The widths are between
    92% and 96% of the non-sloping style,\r\n> the main stems are 94% to 98% of the
    non-sloping style.\r\n\r\nJust to be clear: for the second part, you mean an <strong>additional</strong>
    \"94% to 98%\" (after the narrowing in the first part), right? Otherwise the Italic
    would end up darker instead of lighter, no?\r\n\r\n> there can be a whole degree
    more in the slope of the l.c. than the caps.\r\n\r\nIn the \"most classic\" Armenian
    face, there's actually a difference of 3 degrees! I personally don't like that
    though - what's the point? Was it maybe to reduce kerning (in the metal days)?\r\n\r\nWilliam:\r\n>
    the italic ascender and x-heights and cap heights can all vary from the roman\r\n\r\nIn
    fact I've heard said (most recently by M Carter during the type crit session at
    TC2004) that you need to reduce the x-height and/or the extenders because slanting
    increases the apparent length (in fact the physical length) of the stems (in fact
    the whole letterform). In Patria I've reduced the x-height a hair (admittedly
    prompting Luc[as] de Groot to critically ask me \"Why?\" in Rome) but that was
    actually just to make it more \"delicate\" than the Roman, to pull it away (especially
    needed I think considering my Italic's Roman structures and slight slant).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 22:57:10'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Now that's something I should do a talk or workshop on: issues in working
    with multiple master design spaces. I did my Master's thesis in that area, and
    then later learned how to work with an inside-out master to maximize usable design
    space....\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-07-16 08:10:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Terry, take something like futura or helvetica (or something more similar
    to your face) and skew the roman by the same angle as its italic.\r\n\r\nThen
    paste the italic path in the template/mask layer and see what kind of bezier wrangling
    is necessary to get the roman, in the top layer, to conform to what's underneath.\r\n\r\nThat
    way you will get a feel for what's involved. Either use transformations, or handle
    dragging, or a combination, whatever works for you.\r\n\r\nFor instance, you will
    find that the round parts of sans italics are not skewed as much as the straight
    are. (Measuring skew angle between top and bottom extrema in the cap O for instance.)"
  created: '2005-07-16 13:29:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Now that\u2019s something I should do a talk or workshop on: issues in
    working with multiple master design . . .\"\r\n\r\nThomas,\r\nPlease do!  Perhaps
    a preview at TypeCon next week? (he says hopefully)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-16 22:43:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"In the \u201Cmost classic\u201D Armenian face, there\u2019s actually a
    difference of 3 degrees! \" \r\nI know, I know, but Armenia's a mountainous place,
    everything I said applied to italics at sea level. "
  created: '2005-07-18 12:57:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I know, I know, but Armenia\u2019s a mountainous place, everything I said
    applied to italics at sea level.\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!! That puts a new slant on geography
    AND typography :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-02 22:30:18'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "This just caught my eye:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.massport.com/business/capit.html\"
    target=\"new\">MASSPORT</a> (Massachusetts Port Authority) is currently in the
    process of awarding a $14,000,000. to the consulting firm that wins the Logan
    Airport Wayfinding System RFQ L613-D3.  By law, all municipal, state and federal
    projects must publicly post open contracts and RFQs.\r\n\r\nCurrent runners up
    for the award:\r\n- Carter & Burgess, Inc.\r\n- STV Incorporated\r\n- URS Corporation\r\n\r\nI
    will post the name of the firm that gets the contract. If anyone is interested
    in airport wayfinding, you might want to contact the winner.\r\n-------------------------------\r\nTerry
    \u2013 FYI\r\n\r\nHere\u2019s a link to the open professional bids for <a href=\"http://sunset.ci.sf.ca.us/pbids.nsf/Consult2\"
    target=\u201Dnew\u201D>San Francisco municipal projects</a>. Earlier there was
    a contract up for renewal on food concession wayfinding system at the airport
    ($400,000.).\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-25 18:37:21'
date: '2005-07-11 16:04:35'
files:
- filename: Station_ID.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/Station_ID.jpg
- filename: 2_signs.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/2_signs.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Tips For Constructing True Italics

---
