---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "Hi I was wondering about Gerrit Noordzij's books - 'De Handen Van De Zeven
  Zusters' & 'Zetten Bij Thieme, Nijmegen'. Are they books that an english speaker
  can benefit from or do you need to speak/read dutch?\r\n\r\nAlso - What is in 'Letter
  Letter'? What does it deal with? I know it's recomended but why?\r\n\r\nI want to
  add to my library - \r\n\r\nHas Jean Porchez written any books on letterform design? "
comments:
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Jean F Porchez was the editor of the book \"Lettres fran\xE7aises\" which
    is an overview of contemporary French type design. The book was published in 1998
    to co-incide with the ATypI conference in Lyon. Unfortunately, I don't know how
    the book is available. \r\n\r\nRegards, \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 17:13:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter Enneson (who's hanging around here now - I'll alert him to this thread)
    is translating some of the GN stuff to English. Letterletter is definitely a book
    to have: it explains the chirographic angle in type design quite well, and has
    a lot of good, broader insight into human society as well.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 17:21:14'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: 'Also, Letterletter is pretty funny. '
  created: '2005-07-15 17:40:04'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Thanks Hrant, my translation of Gerrit Noordzij's 'mini magnum opus' (as
    I like to call it) \"De streek: theorie van het schrift\" will appear published
    by Robin Kinross's Hyphen Press some time this fall, under the title \"The stroke:
    theory of writing\". It will be distributed in North America through Princeton
    Architectural Press. It's a great compliment to Letterletter. \r\n\r\nOther English
    language titles are listed at:\r\nhttp://www.letterror.com/noordzij/bibliography/index.html\r\n\r\nI
    have not seen \"Zetten Bij Thieme, Nijmegen\", But \"De Handen Van De Zeven Zusters\"
    (The [writing] hands of the seven sisters) is beautifully produced and wonderful
    to read. It contains numerous essays on type or writing, including the title piece,
    and ones on the primacy of the pen, the domain of typography, the burgundian bastarda,
    the typographic word, the word-image, as well as pieces on the creation of heaven
    and earth and the real meaning of bingo. It's text is probably greek to non-dutch
    readers, but some of the visuals speak volumns.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 18:34:22'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "Addtionally, it appears that De streek will be published in english by Hyphen
    Press this fall.\r\nhttp://www.hyphenpress.co.uk/titles/stroke/index.html\r\n\r\nand
    a news bit here:\r\nhttp://www.hyphenpress.co.uk/news/news_2.html\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 18:36:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Great news, Peter. Look forward to buying and reading it. '
  created: '2005-07-15 18:38:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Adam, in the case of 'Lettres fran\xE7aises' was there enough there in the
    images that it would be useful learning tool? Or was it more of a beautiful promtional
    item? Do you have a copy? Do you speak/read french?\r\n\r\nI am getting more and
    more interested in the Dutch school of type design & want to learn - but I am
    in alaska so books & websites is what I have. \r\n\r\nAt the same time I am finally
    seeing what Jean Porchez talked about when he said - pardon the paraphrase here,
    it is imprefect - ' The dutch took type design & gave it new solidity & rigor
    ' which I imagine comes from an emphasis on written structures - what was called
    'ductal logic'  in that christian gothic thread. Then he said something like '
    But now French type is giving the type it's elegance back.' Again, apologies for
    any mis-quotation or mis-paraphrasing. I don't recall exactly where I read it
    or I would quote it directly.\r\n\r\nAt the time I thought that this kind of description
    seemed a bit maybe nationalistic or maybe even self serving - but I don't think
    so now. Now that seems *right*. \r\n\r\nApolline seems to have most of the rigor
    of the Dutch type I admire so much but an elegant flow to it too. I am still learning
    where my impressions come from - & my impressions keep changing. \r\n\r\nI am
    hoping to learn about the dutch school by reading Noordzij.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 18:42:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For French stuff, also check out Ladislas Mandel's \"Du Pouvoir de l'\xC9criture\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-15 18:51:40'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Eben, the best source for information on dutch type is Jan Middendorp's massive
    (300+ pages; large format), profusely illustrated, comprehensive and perceptive
    "Dutch Type." Gerrit Noordzij is only part of the picture. You can buy "Dutch
    Type" through Nijhoff & Lee (http://www.nijhoflee.nl), but the postal charges
    can be daunting.
  created: '2005-07-15 20:34:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Foster
    picture: 109627
  body: I picked up my copy of <em>Dutch Type</em> online at <a href="http://youworkforthem.com/product.php?sku=P0253"
    target="new">You Work for Them</a>. The book itself was expensive at US $78, but
    UPS Ground shipping was only $7.15. Worth every penny.
  created: '2005-07-16 10:10:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: 'I just finished reading <em>Letterletter</em>. It was much different than
    I expected, but also enriching in ways I didn''t expect. And I agree with Jackson,
    Noordzij is pretty funny. His intro will tell you most of what you need to know:
    you don''t need to believe him, just take him seriously.'
  created: '2005-07-16 14:32:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's ironic that GN's views make more sense the further they are from type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-16 17:07:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Which of his views on type do you take issue with? & why?
  created: '2005-07-16 19:21:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I'm a big fan of <em>Letterletter</em>, with all the caveats that I think
    that statement necessarily implies to anyone else who has read the book. What
    I like and admire about <em>Letterletter</em> -- and why I am looking forward
    to reading Peter's translation of <em>De streek</em> -- is that it deals practically
    with the question of how letters are made, and is the only work I know that attempts
    to analyse the relationship of tool and motion to letterform. Now, as Hrant will
    rightly insist, the question of how letters are made is not the same as the question
    of how letters are <em>read</em>. But for a type designer, especially a beginner
    coming to the craft from outside either an apprenticeship or school introduction,
    learning to think about letterforms from the inside-out, as it were, is helpful
    and probably essential. This is why I have described <em>Letterletter</em> as
    the most practically helpful book I have read as a type designer, and I suspect
    that Peter's new English version of <em>De streek</em> will be even more helpful.
  created: '2005-07-16 19:32:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Which of his views on type do you take issue with? & why?\r\n\r\nMainly
    the big one: that type needs to be chirographic to work; that \"there's no essential
    difference between type and [hand]writing\". But there's a bunch other things
    too, like his equating literacy with civilization. Riiight.\r\n\r\n> the only
    work I know that attempts to analyse the\r\n> relationship of tool and motion
    to letterform.\r\n\r\nWhat about Catich?\r\n\r\n> especially a beginner\r\n\r\nWhile
    I worry that a beginner is particularly susceptible to suffering the long-term
    detriments of a misguided foundation. I think the best place to start thinking
    about type is the... reader!\r\n\r\nThe GN stuff is great for: analyzing the past;
    and making pretty organic display faces. No more.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-16 19:34:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Letterletter has the virtue of being thought provoking, whether you agree
    with it or not, and this is a high merit. As I have mentioned earlier, I also
    agree with John about the fundamental importance of understanding the relation
    of the tool to letter form. \r\n\r\nI agree with Hrant that type is not writing,
    but disagree to the extent that type, as Van Krimpen said, retains an influence
    or force of writing that can't be escaped from. As I think Goudy noted, it is
    hard to find a (two story) a and g where you don't see the influence of the pen.\r\n\r\nI
    also think that G. Noordzij is right about the connection of writing and civilization.
    Without writing, you can't have rule of law over anything larger than a village.
    It was a key step toward individual freedom, which was to some extent lost in
    the 'oriental despotisms' of high culture and productivity that came with irrigation
    technology-in the Nile, Mesopotemia, India and China. \r\n\r\n    "
  created: '2005-07-16 20:20:58'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John Hudson: \"and I suspect that Peter\u2019s new English version of De
    streek will be even more helpful.\" \r\n\r\nI trust it will.\r\n\r\nHrant: \"The
    GN stuff is great for: analyzing the past; and making pretty organic display faces.
    No more.\"\r\n\r\nYes, Gerrit Noordzij's writings are great for analyzing the
    past, including the recent past. And his understanding of writing helped him make
    a series of highly readable text types. Typophiles might be amused to learn that
    I came to Hrant's bouma concept after having been convinced by Noordzij's writings
    of the importance of the visual integrity of the word image.\r\n\r\n\r\nGerrit
    never wanted to prescribe, just describe. In an unpublished text I promised once
    to get letterpress printed for an ATypI doggy bag, Gerrit writes: The dogma of
    independent typedesign could only be supported with a selection of beautiful decadent
    roman fonts in the Dutch manner by such designers as Voskens, Kis, Fleischmann
    and Caslon. For esthetic reasons they made the shapes of their typefaces different
    from penstrokes. [...] It is decadent to make an artificial distance between the
    tool and the shape, but keeping them artificially together is decadent as well.
    This leaves the playingfield wide open. Gerrit's stuff is great for opening up
    the future."
  created: '2005-07-16 20:53:49'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'addendum: one of the the things Gerrit''s "but keeping them artificially
    together" quip leaves the playing field open to is: the contribution of a cognitive-scientifically
    sustainable understanding of perceptual processing in reading. Are we there yet?'
  created: '2005-07-16 21:03:50'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Hrant, I was actually hoping to corner you at TypeCon and ask your thoughts
    on <em>Letterletter</em>. It's very interesting stuff, but very at odds with,
    well, a significant chunk of your philosophy of good type design.\r\n\r\nI found
    his suggestion for type-drawing techniques to be very illuminating. I'm a fan
    (in my amateur way) of a combination of techniques, but I'd never thought of doing
    it quite that way. It appears to add a lot of clarity to controlling axes when
    you're not using tool that has an inherent axis (I often use a ballpoint pen).
    Though it's a bit beholden to handwriting.\r\n\r\nNot to start a debate on it,
    but I also found his writings on the Bible very fascinating."
  created: '2005-07-16 22:01:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Without writing, you can\u2019t have rule of\r\n> law over anything larger
    than a village.\r\n\r\nAnd you can't end up having such a \"civilized\" century
    as the 20th...\r\nSeeing illiterate cultures as \"uncivilized\" is disgusting.\r\n\r\n>
    Yes, Gerrit Noordzij\u2019s writings are great for\r\n> analyzing the past, including
    the recent past.\r\n\r\nAnd the forseeable future even! But not the direction
    we <strong>need</strong> to be going [now]. And I don't buy that describe-versus-prescribe
    business; it's quite clear what GN <strong>likes</strong>, and this obviously
    influences what he makes (where \"highly readable\" is relative) for others to
    see/use, and what he teaches/perpetuates.\r\n\r\n> Noordzij\u2019s writings of
    the importance of the visual integrity of the word image.\r\n\r\nBut when will
    people realize that you can't have both the pen and ideal notan?\r\n\r\n> It is
    decadent to make an artificial distance between the tool and the shape\r\n\r\nYes.
    Dump the tool.\r\n\r\n> but keeping them artificially together is decadent as
    well.\r\n\r\nThen why keep doing it?!\r\n\r\n> Gerrit\u2019s stuff is great for
    opening up the future.\r\n\r\nI think if it were, it wouldn't be doing the exact
    opposite...\r\n\r\n> For esthetic reasons they made the shapes of\r\n> their typefaces
    different from penstrokes.\r\n\r\nI see that as an insult against Fleischmann.\r\nNot
    to mention against the craft itself.\r\nFocusing on aesthetics is for juvies.\r\n\r\n>
    It appears to add a lot of clarity to controlling axes\r\n\r\nYes, the GN stance
    is a typical byproduct of the Western obsession with Control, not to mention the
    Self (here ITO the desire to express yourself more than serve others). Many people
    like the GN angle because it makes them feel relevant and it makes life simpler.
    So does living in a cave.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-17 00:35:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"when will people realize that you can\u2019t have both the pen and ideal
    notan?\"\r\n\r\nwhen 1) notan in type is properly specified, 2) shown to be desirable
    in the typographic realm, and 3) shown to be not acheivable with the pen. \r\n\r\nWhen
    I think notan, I think black / white equi-valance (hypen intended); and when I
    think equivalence I think modularity, and textura--a product of the broad-nibbed
    pen--but in the textura bouma divergance is compromised or so it seems to me. "
  created: '2005-07-17 00:55:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What about Catich?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, Catich is important, especially for
    demonstrating that the tool in question isn't always the obvious one. But Catich
    was concerned with the production of a specific style of lettering using specific
    tools, while Noordzij's analysis is much broader and takes into account models
    of expansion and rotation as well as translation. This is where I think it is
    most useful, because most Latin type designers, consciously or unconsciously,
    begin with a translation model. Making designers conscious of the characteristics
    of other models helps them to extend the 'vocabulary' of their letterforms. It
    can make designers more adaptive, and increase the range of solutions that will
    occur to them when they encounter specific problems <em>including problems of
    readability.</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>While I worry that a beginner is particularly
    susceptible to suffering the long-term detriments of a misguided foundation. I
    think the best place to start thinking about type is the\u2026 reader!</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    what does that mean? We return to my question of some months ago: What would the
    designer do differently? How would the design process differ? Theoretically, starting
    from the reader, <em>i.e.</em> starting from an understanding of how we read rather
    than how we write, makes emminent sense, but I think we have this problem: we
    don't understand enough about how we read to <em>substantially</em> inform a design
    process from the ground up. We can pick up bits of empirical and anecdotal evidence
    about how we read, and we can reach (tentative) conclusions or working hypotheses
    based on them, and these can and should inform decisions during the design process,
    but this is very different from saying that we can make the reader the foundation
    of text typeface design in some way that ignores completely the chirographic background
    of our writing systems.\r\n\r\nHowever, all is not lost, because I think the kind
    of graphic understanding developed by Noordzij can be reconciled very easily with
    a gradually increasing knowledge of reading and its application to design. Rather
    than ideologically declaring that type design should proceed from an understanding
    of reading, even though that understanding is insufficient to support the process
    -- leading to arbitrary and capricious design decisions --, we can realistically
    locate such understanding 'downstream' in the design process, as a recognised
    and increasingly clearly defined target.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-17 06:16:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I also think that G. Noordzij is right about the connection of writing
    and civilization. Without writing, you can\u2019t have rule of law over anything
    larger than a village. It was a key step toward individual freedom...</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    is very strong evidence that individual freedom and equality has never since been
    so great as it was in pre-civilised, i.e. pre-agrarian, hunter gatherer societies.
    The downside, of course, is a short lifespan and chronic low level inter-group
    warfare. Civilisation is defined by a number of key technologies, one of which
    is writing, but all resting on agrarianism. The aggresive alternative to agrarianism
    is pastoralism, which occupies the geographic and social fringe of agrarian civilisation,
    and is generally antagonistic to it. It seems likely that many peoples chose pastoralism
    precisely because it offered them more individual freedom than in the increasingly
    tightly controlled agrarian civilisations. The desire for individual liberty that
    persists <em>despite</em> civilisation can be seen as a kind of homesickness for
    the freedom that we enjoyed as hunter gatherers. So what we have is a long societal
    movement from the freedom, social equality and consensus decision making of the
    small hunter gatherer group, to the increasingly constrained and hierarchical
    structures of agrarian and, later, industrial society, to modern attempts to foster
    institutions of individual liberty within mass societies (democratic goverment,
    constitutional rights, the Internet). The fact that these insitutions are consistently
    undermined shouldn't blind us to the extent to which they recollect our most ancient
    sense of ourselves as free persons."
  created: '2005-07-17 06:30:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What would the designer do differently?\r\n\r\nFirst, psychologically:
    Relinquish the control and ego-trip of creativism (Art) to start heading towards
    serving the reader (Design) for real. Overcome the fear of not knowing the destination,
    or even that a destination exists; the reader is served by our attempts during
    the journey, not our \"arrival\" anywhere - that only serves us.\r\n\r\nThen,
    practically: Pay primary attention to the border between Black and White, instead
    of carrying out moving-front formalisms on an illusionary skeleton. Make glyphs
    that come together to strike the balance you think is good between: aesthetics,
    bouma divergence, even color/texture, and familiarity. The glyphs do not need
    to follow a formal system (like chirography, or geometry) - in fact if they do
    they cannot approach the \"ideal\". This makes them nebulously defined, and that's
    scary - but that's the most something made by a human for other humans can ever
    be anyway.\r\n\r\n> we don\u2019t understand enough about how we read\r\n\r\nWe
    know enough to stop relying on chirography [as much as we do].\r\nEven a little
    knowledge is better than blind allegiance to legacy circumstances.\r\n\r\n> There
    is very strong evidence that ...\r\n\r\nThat's quite good John.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-17 09:30:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">freedom and equality\r\n\r\nI do not know whether your praise of hunter-gatherer
    societies vs agricultural is entirely merited--what are your sources?--but in
    any case it does not contradict what I wrote about law and freedom. The point
    is that what we regard as the pioneers of civilized societies are the highly productive
    and creative civilizations of the Nile, Mesopotamia, China and India. I mentioned
    specifically that something was *lost* in these as well as gained, as well as,
    no doubt in the earlier transition from hunter-gatherer societies to settled agriculture.
    \ \r\n\r\nWhat is normally called civilized is just the specialization, with the
    flurishing of art, invention, and yes writing that came with the irrigation societies.
    These were far more productive than earlier ones, and so enabled people to have
    leisure and specialization that resulted in many advances. \r\n\r\nWithin the
    context of these large, developed, sophisticated but oppressive societies, writing
    enabled the rule of law, protecting the individual to a greater extent. Moses
    seems to have been the first to try to eliminate the monarch in this context,
    proposing a rule of law purported to have divine authority. Ancient Greek democracy
    proposed law sanctioned by the votes of the people, but the same ideal of rule
    by \"law, not men.\" \r\n\r\nWithin large, productive societies that produce economic
    surpluses--and which allow for such activities as type design--law is critical
    to individual freedom, and writing is necessary for such law. \r\n\r\n   "
  created: '2005-07-17 11:46:45'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Hrant, why do you wish to take the art out of the design? Are you speaking
    only about the  making of maximally legible type? Or are you attacking the inherited
    assumptions made in general about what makes the most legible type?\r\n\r\nArt
    is as much a condition of humanity as nebulous definition, no?\r\n\r\nOr am I
    misinterpreting you?"
  created: '2005-07-17 15:52:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> enabled people to have leisure\r\n\r\nRiiight.\r\n\r\n> Moses seems to
    have been the first\r\n\r\nOh yes of course - u all da man.\r\n\r\n> why do you
    wish to take the art out of the design?\r\n\r\nNever take out. But put in its
    place - balance.\r\n\r\nAnything made by a human cannot avoid personal expression,
    and anything made for a human should not. The limits of expression come in due
    to the need of Design to serve others, not merely satisfy the maker.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-17 16:51:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I do not know whether your praise of hunter-gatherer societies vs agricultural
    is entirely merited\u2014what are your sources?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not <em>praising</em>
    hunter-gatherer societies, I'm making an observation about their social organisation,
    which tends to be non-hierarchical, based on consensus decision making, and in
    which men and women have substantial social equality. One doesn't have to sign-up
    to a sentimental 'noble savage' myth in order to acknowledge the relative freedom
    of such groups, and it would be foolish to praise them, because it is not as if
    they have chosen to live this way: it was simply the pattern of human existence
    for many hundreds of thousands of years, and it survives, just about, and has
    been observed among the few hunter-gatherer societies that persisted into the
    modern age. The key to the social life of hunter-gatherer societies is the small
    group, and a significant area of open and fruitful land.\r\n\r\nI'm certainly
    not trying to paint an idyllic picture of such societies. As I noted above, they
    were characterised by chronic low level warfare. There were almost no pitched
    battles of the kind that we associate with civilised warfare, but a succession
    of ambushes and, when possible, massacres. The number killed on any one day was
    miniscule compared to the increasing efficiency of civilised warfare, but the
    proportion of the overall population killed in each generation was much higher
    than in any subsequent warfare (as high as 25%, if I recall correctly). This kind
    of hunter-gatherer warfare was well documented among the Australian aboriginal
    peoples, and was still prevalant in New Guinea until quite recently. It is also,
    by the way, exactly the same kind of warfare that has been documented among different
    groups of chimpanzees.\r\n\r\nMy point about such socieities is that they reflect
    the vast majority of human history: civilisation is a recent phenomenon. So it
    isn't unreasonable to think that much of what we are as a species was formed in
    such societies, and that conformance to hierarchical social organisation is to
    some degree alien to our nature: it is something that we have learned in the past
    few thousand years, and which most of us continue to resist and subvert in various
    ways.\r\n\r\nMy main source for this thinking is the early chapters of Gwynne
    Dyer's <em>War,</em> which I've been reading recently. He provides a good summary
    of recent research on hunter-gatherer societies, most of which seeks to bury the
    old noble savage myth and accurately detail the shortness and unpleasantness of
    such existence (the tribesmen of New Guinea were reportedly very relieved when
    the goverment told them that they were not allowed to fight each other any more).
    But at the same time, the relative social equality and freedom of such societies
    should be acknowledged: because it is part of our common, pre-civilised past."
  created: '2005-07-18 01:42:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "While we're on the topic of civilization:\r\n\r\nWay back in this thread
    Hrant took exception to Noordzij's \"equating literacy with civilization.\" \r\n\r\nDoes
    Noordzij actually do this? I have not reread <em>Letterletter</em> in its entirety
    to confirm or disconfirm this, but what Noordzij <em>does</em> say is that \"[I]
    am initiated in the convention of a civilization by learning it's technique of
    handwriting.\" (page 6) And what Noordzij <em>does</em> equate is the begining
    of Western and Islamic civiliztion with the invention of the word. (page 36ff)"
  created: '2005-07-18 03:03:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">early chapters of Gwynne Dyer\u2019s War\r\n\r\nThanks for the reference.
    I look forward to looking at it. I am skeptical of the claims to lack of hierarchy
    in hunter-gatherer societies. Every other traditional society I have heard of
    has adults in authority over children, men over women to a serious degree, and
    some community leaders with more power.  "
  created: '2005-07-18 04:24:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Back on topic, sort of:\r\n\r\nEver since the \"true Italic\" thread where
    I put \"constructed\" in quotes in an attempt to qualify it as a broader idea
    in opposition to chirography, I've realized I need a better term. \"Notanic\"
    sucks though. And \"chirography\" deserves a suitably Greek opponent. So I arrived
    at the idea of expressing the boundary-based nature of notan-centric design. My
    first choice was the Greek word for \"membrane\" (something that both separates
    and relates), but ironically that's \"chorio\"... and \"choriography\" is both
    taken and too confusable against \"chirography\". So I've decided to go with \"dichography\",
    since \"dicho\" means -or at least can mean- something like \"one thing split
    into two\". And one good thing about it is that many people are familiar with
    that prefix already.\r\n\r\nNow, I'm not a fan of terminological despotism, so
    this is your chance to suggest something better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-18 06:04:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Questions of Civilization ( or lack therof ) aside -  It seems to me that
    some factors have been left out of this discussion about the approach to the design
    of type.\r\n\r\nType signifies in at least two ways; One; as written - in other
    words 'what' is written.  It's type's ability to do this better than letters writen
    by hand that Hrant in particular seems excited by. But Typophiles in general seem
    to share this prejudice.* This is also also the reason I am interested GN's books,
    dutch type & french type. \r\n\r\nTwo; type signifys -  and this is where graphic
    designers get so much of their kicks - from the design/art/style of the letters
    - and the implied meaning or feeling they suggest. A type has a kind of 'voice'
    like an actor speaking. \r\n\r\n* By which I mean nothing pejorative.\r\n\r\nI
    can understand where some type designers may fixate on the 1st kind of signifying
    but even the 'best', most neutral, or most readable ( pick your own quality really
    ) type cannot fail be interpreted by readers in both ways. It's probably true
    that sheer familiarity of the forms reduces the extent to which we are aware of
    our reactions to the sheer style or feeling of book or text fonts. But this 2nd
    factor doesn't go away.\r\n\r\nIt seems like the 2 characteristics must interact
    and enhance or undermine each other. It also seems like  a font with a beautiful
    rhythm would add to it's fuction. I think that the GN influenced fonts & dutch
    fonts in general have this quality. Fonts from Ourtype, Gerard Unger, Enchede
    & so on seem to embody this quality. But the Apolline seems to deemphasize some
    of this rhythym which seems somewhat chirographic in origin to gain some additional
    melody. My musical analogy may not be right, and my observation may be poor, and
    finally I could be wrong about the way in which these two elements interact. But
    thats the way it seems to me. Any comments?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-18 08:19:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "The key to the social life of hunter-gatherer societies, or at least the
    ones who survived, was Information. \"After the Ice\" explains all this from the
    only perspective that matters, which is the vast trove of archeological evidence
    unearthed in the last, and only the last 20 years or so, when they've been able
    to subject the bones, and one bit of clothe! to cool forensic studies, and the
    other remains to microbiological and micromineralogical analysis. The book is
    a must for discussions like this 'cause it's a global study of studies, and spans
    the transitions from huntress, to shepherdess, to housewife (and from bean eater
    to bean guarder to bean counter).  ....From these studies, we know that they didn't
    have italics, free time? a concept of freedom? Not for long. Freedom and eat'em,
    as they'd say. The other important part we'll never understand but know existed
    was a connection to nature that was so overwhelming that there was no room for
    most of the concepts we have today about how people must have lived ; ). They
    were, as groups, full of information or gone. This slowly morphed into representations
    of that information: after the ice. \r\n\r\nThe ideas of the Noordzij and Catich,
    mixed with Dyer and Diamond are nearly too much for me at least. The later, by
    the way, in The One or Two pages on the subject of typography and printing, all
    but acknowledges the title should be, \"...and Steel & Type\" and, New Guinea
    Is home to 2/3 of the spoken languages   on  earth, so it is the old us as we
    were everywhere, (not).\r\n\r\nThinking on newly coyned Dichographic Divide. .
    .could that be it's own thread? because John: \"We can pick up bits of empirical
    and anecdotal evidence about how we read, and we can reach (tentative) conclusions
    or working hypotheses based on them, and these can and should inform decisions
    during the design process, but this is very different from saying that we can
    make the reader the foundation of text typeface design in some way that ignores
    completely the chirographic background of our writing systems.\"\r\n..has gone
    in a wonderful new direction. "
  created: '2005-07-18 17:21:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't think writing with a pen has as much bearing on literacy as it used
    to.\r\nThere was the Scandinavian discovery recently that teaching writing by
    going from printed block letter, to keyboarding, followed by script writing, worked
    very well, not missing anything irrevocably. That would suggest that keyboarding
    is fully adequate.\r\n\r\nHowever, what pen/pencil writing provides is an expressive
    richness. Typography has picked this up, particularly with its riff on the broad
    nib. That's what we generally understand by chirographic, but there are other
    expressive aspect of writing which typography has not captured, namely speed and
    pressure.\r\n\r\nSpeed is the deliberative quality of writing, and is apparent
    in the writer's choice of shortcuts, truncations, and ligatures. Pressure has
    been parsed, in a way, by the \"upstroke thin, downstroke thick\" convention of
    the broadnib-based contrast in types, but that's a slow, stilted version of what
    happens. The importance of pressure is something I noticed in trying to make a
    script font from pencil writing, it cries out for a tonal axis.\r\n\r\nThe expressive
    quality of writing is recognized by graphologists -- a derided area of expertise
    and inquiry which could be useful to script fontmakers.\r\n\r\nIt's interesting
    that the OpenType script fonts now emerging (using contextual alternates) follow
    established formal genres. These are formalisms that have been successfully established
    for commercial lettering genres, or type treatments (both metal and typositor).
    \r\nThere's an opportunity to use digital media to take another crack at making
    fonts from writing, just as moveable type originally did. It's something I'm contemplating
    doing, using contextual alternates, but a tonal axis is out of my reach, although
    I recall that Frank Jonen has done some research in this area."
  created: '2005-07-18 18:14:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "What do you mean by 'tonal axis'? It sounds like emotion reflected in the
    writing?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-18 21:17:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> Pay primary attention to the border between Black and White, instead of
    carrying out moving-front formalisms on an illusionary skeleton. \r\n\r\nThis
    seems like a particlarly opaque phrase to me. Hrant, Would you expand on it?"
  created: '2005-07-18 22:54:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Tonal axis: a design axis, varying the tone from the usual 100% black.\r\nI
    use the term \"axis\" as it has been used with Multiple Masters, eg for horizontal
    scaling and weight. The idea of othe potential axes is shown in Penumbra, with
    a \"serif/no serif\" axis."
  created: '2005-07-18 23:31:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This seems like a particlarly opaque phrase to me.\r\n\r\nIt's hard to
    be clear on this without writing a short book every time...\r\nI'll try harder
    soon.\r\n\r\nAxes: we've only scratched the surface.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-18 23:39:43'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: Eben, if you read <em>Letterletter</em>, it makes more sense. The 'moving
    front' is a concept that Noordzij writes about (and created?).
  created: '2005-07-18 23:53:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Crugen! \r\n\r\nHrant, I hope you do! \r\n\r\nAlso a while ago you
    wrote -'The expressions of an artist making pretty, harmonious formal shapes is
    selfish and largely wasteful; the expression of a craftsman in spite of himself
    making fonts that serve the reader is better, in my mind. Prettiness, I'm really
    sick of - it's a succubus.' \r\n\r\nI was asking before if anybody ( you too)
    thought that a pleasing quality - what I called 'melody' at the time couldn't
    have some sort of benefit to a text face. Sure, to worry about prettiness alone
    is silly, but don't you think it might have some sort of role? Being attractive
    would call out to the eye & encourage further reading - It seems like having a
    modulated lively quality would keep the eye entertained in a way & sustain it
    through a long text - would it not? Too much prettiness would wear after a while.
    \r\n\r\nNick S - You wrote > 'a quality of sporadic sharpness (aka sparkle?)'
    in the christian gothic thread. That phrase has really stuck with me. Could you
    write a bit more about how you see the role of 'sparkle' in a text face? Or even
    in other kinds of faces. Where does this term come from? \r\n\r\nAlso, Nice points
    about Speed & Pressure. That was easy to understand & useful!"
  created: '2005-07-19 00:44:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> don\u2019t you think it might have some sort of role?\r\n\r\nIt most certainly
    does. But to me the key is treating it as just another factor (one that can be
    sacrificed, pushed around, etc.) not an over-arching principle. This doesn't mean
    I'm a fan of the Cult of the Ugly; I'm a fan of Looks Don't Matter That Much.
    I'm a fan of what's underneath.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nLike Chris indicates, the \"moving
    front\" stuff (a great term) comes directly from GN. Ironically, it is thanks
    to his formalizations of writing that I've been able to put my finger on exactly
    why it fails in the realm of type design.\r\n\r\nThe making of letterforms can
    be divided into two general methods: chirography, which creates the black (possibly
    with an eye on the white, but still) by applying one or more of translation, rotation
    and pressure on a set of vectors (the letterform skeleton*); and dichography,
    which creates the boundary between the black and white. Any marking method (such
    as the broad-nib pen held by the human arm/hand) is chirogaphic; bezier curves
    are dichographic. Furthermore, reading is dichographic: we percieve and decipher
    black/white shapes, not movements of some virtual, paraphrased marking method.\r\n\r\n*
    I further put forth that these structures are imaginary. They make us happy by
    providing an illusion of control, but there's no reason to believe that letters
    have any such structure to the reader (just the maker - or <strong>some</strong>
    makers). Peter will argue that letters do have strucures in reading (and I tend
    to believe him) but these are definitely not chirographic structures. The conventional
    structural definitions of the letters are violated every day (like an UC \"R\"
    without its vertical stem, which is still read as an \"R\" just fine), but some
    people prefer to look the other way. Basically, we don't yet really know what
    the letters are.\r\n\r\nBoth chirography and dichography can create any shape
    they want, but each is more attuned to making certain types of shapes. I put forth
    that the functional dimension of typography is better served by dichography. While
    the aesthetic aspect of typography is <strong>partly</strong> served by chirography;
    I say partly, because things like geometry and symmetry (both to some extent violated
    by chirography) are also important in aesthetics. This is why I say that chirography
    is best for making a certain class of display fonts.\r\n\r\nBut it's not a matter
    of banishing chirography - not at all. It's a matter of seeing and aknowledging
    its limits, and striking a better balance than we have been between the two worlds,
    aesthetic and functional; of rekindling the fires of exploration, which will lead
    to radical improvement, not mere refinement. It's a matter of striking a balance
    between celebration and progress. Let's put the bottle down already, and find
    a more rewarding, challenging continent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-19 01:44:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " >how you see the role of \u2018sparkle\u2019 in a text face?\r\n\r\n\"...the
    diamond studded highway where you wander...\"\r\n--Van Morrison"
  created: '2005-07-19 02:06:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>So I\u2019ve decided to go with \u201Cdichography\u201D, since
    \u201Cdicho\u201D means -or at least can mean- something like \u201Cone thing
    split into two\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nI think you are focusing on the wrong part of
    the word. We already have a distinction between chirography and typography. Noordzij
    wants to suggest that the distinction is minimal because both are writing (\u03B3\u03C1\u03AC\u03C6\u03BF\u03C2).
    So it is the '-graphy' part of the terms on which you should be focusing your
    attention. I first suggested the term chirography to you because you had been
    using 'calligraphy', which is a formal aesthetic subset of chirography.*  The
    distinction between 'writing by hand' and 'writing with type' is perfectly expressed
    in the terms chirography and typography, and I don't think a new term is necessary
    in this regard.\r\n\r\nWhat you are talking about, Hrant, is not writing at all,
    but a design process for making the individual units of typography. Throughout
    most of the past 550 or so years, type has come in a sense 'after writing' (i.e.
    after chiropgraphy), and you are seeking a kind of type that comes 'before writing'
    (i.e. before typography), and which begins not with writing but with reading.
    So I would say that, terminologically, what you are talking about has nothing
    to do with \u03B3\u03C1\u03AC\u03C6\u03BF\u03C2 at all.\r\n\r\nThe distinction
    you want to make is between what you consider 'chirographic type design'** and
    what I would be tempted to call 'anagnostic type design', from the Greek verb
    to read. [The equivalent to the Roman order of Lector in the Orthodox Church is
    the Anagnost.]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n* I think a good argument could be made that 'calligraphy'
    could refer equally well to a formal aesthetic subset of <em>typography</em>,
    since it is the formal aesthetic element that defines calligraphy, not how it
    is made. The new terms chirocalligraphy and typocalligraphy are etymologically
    obvious.\r\n\r\n** As we've discussed before, I think there is very little purely
    chirographic type design out there. I think it was Peter Enneson who, on the ATypI
    list, suggested that most type design was 'parachirographic'. I'm still trying
    to figure out how to complete the t-shirt slogan 'Parachirogaphers do it with...'"
  created: '2005-07-19 02:33:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What you are talking about, Hrant, is not writing at all, but\r\n> a design
    process for making the individual units of typography.\r\n\r\nIndeed. But I can't
    really call that \"typography\", can I?\r\n\r\nI'm open to using a suffix other
    than \"-graphy\", although I have to point out that its meaning can be a lot looser/broader
    than something related to writing.\r\n\r\nI actually thought of finding a term
    related to reading. But I think that's too \"intent-centric\". It would be better
    to have an \"action-centric\" term, something that describes how the stuff is
    actually made. After all, we are saying \"chirography\", not \"individual-expression-of-creative-control-graphy\"
    or something! :-)  I worry that a reader-based term will be too theoretical, too
    prone to dismissal by people who say \"you don't really know how we read*, so
    your term can't be any good\". Don't you think an activity-based term would be
    better?\r\n\r\n* And being partly right in saying so!\r\n\r\n> 'parachirographic'\r\n\r\nYeah,
    that was hot.\r\n\r\nI agree that chirography (like any concept, really) cannot
    exist in a pure state (maybe not even in actual writing by hand, since even things
    like the paper texture play a role). But the way you think of things certainly
    affects the way you make things. Like look at that nutsy \"y\" in Unibody-Bold.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-19 02:49:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Since you are primarily using the term chirographic as an adjective to refer
    to a particular kind of type design, you should be looking for a term that can
    be contrasted in the same usage. 'Typographic type design' sounds really dorky
    and is confusing. The simplest place to start is simply 'non-chirographic type
    design', of which my suggested 'anagnostic type design' would be one, intentional
    variety. The problem with trying to find an activity-based term for what you are
    describing is that the activity is difficult to distinguish from the majority
    of 'chirographic' -- or parachirographic -- type design: the vast majority of
    type is made by people constructing outlines. The distinction you are seeking
    is not in the activity, but in how that activity is informed (by handwriting or
    not by handwriting). So beyond 'non-chirographic' you will probably be thinking
    in terms of a variety of different ways of thinking about type design and how
    these inform the activity of making.\r\n\r\nYou could reduce your suggested term
    to 'dichotic type design', by which you would mean type design that is focused
    on the dividing line between black/white space. I think this is as good a term
    as you are going to get.\r\n\r\nThis leads us to the interesting question: is
    anagnostic type design necessarily dichotic type design? You would say yes; I
    am not convinced."
  created: '2005-07-19 03:22:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The distinction you are seeking is not in the activity, but in how\r\n>
    that activity is informed (by handwriting or not by handwriting).\r\n\r\nTrue.
    Although \"not by handwriting\" isn't how we should see it. That's almost as bad
    as \"non-Latin\".  :-)\r\n\r\n> dichotic\r\n\r\nWhy such aversion to \"-graphic\"?
    I think it provides more information.\r\n\r\n> is anagnostic type design necessarily
    dichotic type design?\r\n\r\nI would say no; each is its own thing. Anagnostic
    seems more complex, because it incorporates things like Familiarity. But dichographic
    design is clearly closer to anagnostic than chirographic is.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-19 05:44:57'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John H., try: parachirographers do it with splines.\r\n\r\nHrant, could you
    accept splinographic, or splino-primitive?"
  created: '2005-07-19 12:16:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Why such aversion to \u201C-graphic\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause, as I
    explained, you are not talking about writing, but about an approach to type design.
    The suffix -graphic implies writing to me, especially in the context of a discussion
    that centres on the role of writing and reading in type design.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    you are using chirographic as an adjective applied to type design, i.e. you are
    referencing chirography. But you can't reference 'dichography' in the same way,
    because it isn't something that exists as a practice independent of what you are
    describing. So I'm suggesting that you make a much more direct adjective, dichotic,
    that describes the kind of type design without appearing to reference something
    external to it through a terminological parallel to chirographic. I thought this
    would appeal to you, because it subtly reinforces your argument: chirography is
    something external to but referenced in type design (handwriting), while the dichotic
    approach is internal to type design."
  created: '2005-07-19 15:40:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> splinographic\r\n\r\nI don't think so, because it doesn't have to be splines.
    It doesn't even have to be mathematical. You could even use a pen! As long as
    you're minding the notan, and not the black only.\r\n\r\n> you are not talking
    about writing\r\n\r\nBut I <strong>am</strong> talking about making visual things.
    Do encephalographers poke pens in your brain? I think you're being too... etymological.\r\n\r\n>
    \u2018dichography\u2019 in the same way, because it isn\u2019t something that\r\n>
    exists as a practice independent of what you are describing.\r\n\r\nI don't get
    it.\r\n\r\nWhat do others think about \"dichotic\" versus \"dichographic\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-19 20:17:22'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I thought it might be of interest to insert two quotes by Adrian Frutiger;
    one on the deliniation of white/black inside/outside space, and one on how chirographic
    tools affect his abilitity to design. Oddly enough, both are from the same interview.\r\n\r\n<strong>ADRIAN
    FRUTIGER</strong>\r\nExcerpts from an interview with\r\nMarcelle Charriere, \u201C<em>Information
    TG</em>\u201D 1970\r\nEnglish translation by Helen Reshetnik and Pam Manfried,
    Mergenthaler Linotype Co.\r\n\r\nQ: <em>Have a number of concepts or ideas governed
    the creation of your typefaces?</em>\r\n<strong>A: Certainly, I feel, for instance,
    that the inside white spaces are more important than the outside contours of a
    letter.\r\n   The letters of an alphabet are like the various elements of a house;
    the material of typography is the black, and it is the typographer\u2019s task,
    with the help of this black, to capture space, to create harmonious whites inside
    the letters as well as between them.</strong>\r\n\r\nQ: <em>And your Indian typefaces,
    do they arise from the same concepts?</em>\r\n<strong>A: The Indo-Germanic connection
    is well-known; and, most important, the writing tools used in India for centuries
    resemble our own quite closely. The Indians use the pen, the reed pen. I would
    be unable to design Chinese type characters because I am accustomed to working
    with a pen, not with a brush.</strong>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-19 20:56:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: The problem I see with dichotic & dichographic is that they seem to suggest
    nothing more than division. In this case the black & the white. I did like the
    splinography but I agree that it is saying how not what. What about Notanography?
    I actually don't yet know what is meant by 'notan' but judging simply by it's
    use in Hrants sentance it sounds like that is his object.
  created: '2005-07-20 00:07:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they seem to suggest nothing more than division.\r\n\r\nI'm hoping that
    it suggests more of a separation (\"dicho-\" means split, into two) in something
    that's actually a whole.\r\n\r\nI thought of \"notanic\" (\"notanographic\" is
    too cumbersome), but it sounds dumb, doesn't it? Plus it's not Greek (and \"chirographic\"
    is).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-20 00:20:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> \u201Cdicho-\u201D means split, into two\r\n\r\nRight by division I meant
    split or cut or torn asunder. I guess that's the thing. I get the separation in
    the term but not the richer realtionship to the whole from the term. \r\n\r\nI
    am asking alot I supose, but it seems like dichotic doesn't address what you are
    championing in point of view - I am inferring quite a bit here so hang on tight
    - that it is the dynamic between the b&w eg the notan ( I read a little more now)
    that is important & which you want folks to be more aware of in designing type.
    \r\n\r\nPut another way fullness needs empty space to be precieved as full & vice
    versa. That idea is I think probably at the core of notan centered typographic
    thought. Notan as I am understanding it sounds alot like some buddhist ideas about
    reality & also wabi sabi ideas about form. \r\n\r\nFor example \"Suzuki Roshi
    said, 'There is no emptiness which has no form, which means that emptiness cannot
    exist separate from form.'\" Similarly, Heart Sutra says, \"Form does not differ
    from emptiness, emptiness does not differ from form; that which is form is emptiness,
    that which is emptiness, form.\" \r\n\r\nWhich seems to me to tie in to the idea
    that typographically speaking you can't have one or a meaningful understanding
    the shape of letters without equally thinking about their empty spaces both in
    counters & between juxtaposed letters & between lines of type. Or in japanese
    caligraphy - between strokes & between Glyphs & groups of glyphs.\r\n\r\nSince
    this is true in sculpture, japanese caligraphy* & other arts I don't see why type
    would be exempt.'\r\n\r\n* Isn't this where the phrase 'notan' comes from right?\r\n\r\nAnyway
    this is why I think notan is better starting place to come from - it is philsopicaly
    central to your outlook. \r\n\r\n> Plus it\u2019s not Greek (and \u201Cchirographic\u201D
    is)\r\n\r\nNotan not being a greek word seems unimportant to me. Particularly
    since it's 2005 now not 1920. I guess if you could find a greek that means notan
    that would be okay but I doubt it exists.\r\n\r\nAlso english exists in part because
    of it's borrowings. It's a big part of what's decent about it. So I say borrrow
    away! And you in a pacific rim city! What more convicing could you need?"
  created: '2005-07-20 02:56:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm, Eben-san.\r\n\"Dichographic\" is acquiring a distinct continental stench
    now...\r\nOK, maybe you're right.\r\n\r\nIs there a suffix besides \"-ic\" I could
    use at the end of \"notan\"?\r\nOr maybe a prefix?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-20 03:19:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You have writen about the usefulness of the dash before so maybe 'typo-notan'
    or just 'typonotan'. Having never seen the word before I find it looks good as
    a single word. If it only had a nice decender towards the end of it! I guess you
    could say 'notanographic'. At least there are two nice descenders! An i: 'notanigraphic'
    It sounds pinched when you say it. 'notanagraphic' sounds like a feature on a
    printer. Sounds too commercial. 'u' is out. Notanegraphic makes it seem almost
    french... Maybe cool. O is the most neutral. It also sounds the most Japanese.
    \r\n\r\nThen there could be 'notanic' which is nice because it's short - but which
    might sound like a wine lacking tannins. Actually that is growing on me. It's
    shortness makes it seem accesible. \r\n\r\nBut typonotan sounds like a meta feature
    of type that can be observed like the directional stress or the bouma. That seems
    like it's more accurate. In contast 'Notanic' sounds like a simpler more direct
    quality and would tempt a writer to say something stupid like 'that type is very
    notanic' which I don't think can ever make sense. Observing notan like isn't like
    noticing boldness or floridness or degree of ornament. It's a meta-characteristic.
    Put another way - you can't have a font with more or less notan than another.
    You can only have notan that is more or less balanced (or maybe rythmic or flowing?)
    and which maybe helps the eye and which maybe which helps readability. Balance
    can of course be dymamic rather than static. Ever seen the caligraphy of 'Sesshu'?
    \r\n\r\nMaybe leaving it less accessible is actually more accurate too.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    just saying Notan is enough. Why gild the lilly?\r\n\r\nI wonder if observing
    chinese/japanese/korean caligraphy wouldn't be a better way to think about Notan
    and notan's relatioonship to western type anyway since :\r\n\r\n1. Notan comes
    both as a concern culturally and as a word from that tradition and - \r\n\r\n2.
    because a chinese brush has a wider dynamic range of expression in terms of thickness
    - and probably other ways too - than a reed pen and therefore oddly has a closer
    relationship to the full range of a typographic letterform than a reed pen can
    have at least in terms of dymamic range.\r\n "
  created: '2005-07-20 05:07:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> O is the most neutral. It also sounds the most Japanese.\r\n\r\nI think
    that would be notanogolafico.  :-)\r\n\r\nIf I/we go with notan, I think \"notanic\"
    is good.\r\n\r\n> you can\u2019t have a font with more or less notan than another.
    \r\n\r\nTrue. But you can have a font that minds the importance of good notan
    more than another.\r\n\r\n> Ever seen the caligraphy of \u2018Sesshu\u2019?\r\n\r\nNo.
    Links?\r\n\r\n> I wonder if observing chinese/japanese/korean caligraphy\r\n>
    wouldn\u2019t be a better way to think about Notan\r\n\r\nIronically, oriental
    lettermaking is strongly chirographic! My guess is that their -well placed- respect
    for the organic in Art over-rides the necessary typographic sensibilities. Sort
    of how many people think Arabic only looks \"right\" when it's chirographic. On
    the other hand, I have seen one example of oriental calligraphy that's more in
    tune with notan than anything else I've seen in any script.\r\n\r\nBut the night
    is young.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-20 05:37:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> If I/we go with notan, I think \u201Cnotanic\u201D is good.\r\n\r\nWhy?
    because it's short? My warnings about likely misuse didn't convince huh?\r\n\r\nSesshu
    was a caligrapher/painter zen monk martial artist & so on.\r\n\r\nhttp://metropolis.japantoday.com/tokyo/425/art.asp\r\n\r\nI
    have a book of his caligraphy - as opposed to his landscapes - maybe I can find
    it & scan something from it. I have to admit that I thought of his work as exemplifying
    spectaucular flow & rythym rather than notan per se. Although I am sure his stuff
    has a very solid notanic aspect to it as well. It could hardly fail to really.\r\n\r\n>
    oriental lettermaking is strongly chirographic\r\n\r\nOf course it is - but the
    absolute neccessity of constently being aware of notanic issues - in part because
    because of the way that complex glyphs combine simpler ones to create new glyphs,
    and for several others reasons, means I think, that there must be a goldmine of
    notanic perspective in even the most strongly chirographic oriental letterforms.
    In fact, they may be proportionate rather than opposed because the more you stress
    the chirographic aspects of the glyphs the more you have to think about & make
    allowances to ensure that good notan is preserved.\r\n\r\nWhat is your example
    of being in tune with notan?\r\n\r\n> over-rides the necessary typographic sensibilities\r\n\r\nWould
    you expand on this? I don't really see what you mean yet.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-20 07:41:13'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: How about "stroke based" and "outline based" ?
  created: '2005-07-20 08:07:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there must be a goldmine of notanic perspective in even\r\n> the most strongly
    chirographic oriental letterforms.\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\n> What is your example
    of being in tune with notan?\r\n\r\nLegato is the best (in fact only) example
    of a [usable] font that takes notan seriously. There are however earlier examples
    of movements in the right direction, most notably the work of Dwiggins.\r\n\r\n>>
    over-rides the necessary typographic sensibilities\r\n\r\n> Would you expand on
    this? I don\u2019t really see what you mean yet.\r\n\r\n1) Typography is primarily
    about reading.\r\n2) Reading is essentially notan-based.\r\n3) Chirography skews
    notan in a non-productive direction.\r\n\r\n> How about \u201Cstroke based\u201D
    and \u201Coutline based\u201D ?\r\n\r\nMaybe because they don't say enough about
    the mindframe, only the mechanics. I previously said that John's suggestion to
    focus on the act of reading in finding a term was too \"intent-centric\". Now
    I realize that maybe the ideal term would be somewhere in between; sort of like
    guiding, without forcing specific theories. Is this possible?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-20 17:30:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But I am talking about making visual things. Do encephalographers poke
    pens in your brain?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, but they are creating images, just as lithographers
    are. So there is this dual meaning of the suffix -graphic, which refers to writing
    (the original etymology) and the creating of images. But as Mr Gill wrote, a letter
    is a thing, not a picture of a thing. It is visual, yes, but it is not an image.
    It may be used in an image, but it is not an image in itself. And as Mr Papazian
    has written elsewhere, a typeface is a 'little machine', which is a much better
    way to think about it than as an image. So this is why I don't think a reference
    to anything -graphic is desirable."
  created: '2005-07-20 18:10:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>How about \u201Cstroke based\u201D and \u201Coutline based\u201D ?</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    problem with these is that they are already in use to refer to font formats, while
    what we are talking about here are approaches to design that are format indepenedent.
    We are talking about a distinction between type design that directly references
    or is influeced by writing implements, and type design that is based on a balanced
    consideration of light and dark space.\r\n\r\nThinking about this some more, I'm
    inclined to agree with Eben that the proposed 'dicho-' terminology is inadequate.
    Hrant has posited that the way to get away from chirography in type design is
    to draw outlines in which Noordzij's 'front' is ignored, in which the two edges
    of a 'stroke' are defined independently of each other. But this seems to me to
    be a particular approach to 'balanced consideration of light and dark space',
    and it <em>might</em> not be the only approach. So I would be inclined to go in
    search of a term that does not suggest a particular methodolgy, but evokes the
    idea of the 'balanced consideration of light and dark space'. This is why I've
    welcomed Hrant's adoption of the term notan; all we need now is an appropriate
    adjectival form of that word. Notanic is probably as good as you will get. Although
    Hrant might like the pun implicit in Notanal."
  created: '2005-07-20 18:24:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Reminds me of Analon, which is a brand of cookware believe it or not.\r\n\r\nNotan
    it is, then.* Now let's find the best suffix (or prefix).\r\n\r\n* Provisionally.
    As always.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-20 19:26:53'
date: '2005-07-15 16:53:42'
node_type: forum
title: Gerrit Noordzij's books

---
