---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: "About a year ago in a Typophile thread, in response to Hrant's advocacy for
  a science-based, theoretically-driven approach to legibility, I argued that legibility
  was a practical matter really, and that any typeface could be turned into a text
  type, without benefit of science or theory. He suggested I try my own Eunoia.\r\n\r\nSorry
  for the delay. It hasn't taken that long to do, just finding the time and motivation
  has delayed it.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Eunoia_Text.pdf\">Here</a>
  is a pdf comparing Eunoia Text with Eunoia, Helvetica Medium Condensed, Univers
  57, and ITC Franklin Gothic Book Condensed.\r\n\r\nI've shown the face 8/9 justified,
  in a newspaper column format. I don't think this is a book face, as Hrant would
  probably prefer, but the challenge was to make a text face, and the news setting
  is a good test of that, and certainly qualifies as immersive reading.\r\n\r\nI could
  have taken it further, but that would have departed from the type design, which
  is necessarily high contrast and condensed. \r\n\r\nI would have liked to have shown
  it compared with faces that also have this quality, such as Britannic or Ocean,
  but I don't have anything like that.\r\n\r\nHave I proved my point?\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'i''m surprised no one has commented on this! maybe i was the only one excited
    to see this experiment. now my only question is: who will be the judge(s) of whether
    this makes a sucessful text face or not?'
  created: '2005-07-18 21:13:53'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Nick, I like your Eunoia Text, I'd need to read articles set in it for a while
    to get use to the variations in the strokes. This is especially true since this
    is the first time I've seen it, unlike Helvetica etc. Its a lot like tasting a
    new food for the first time, you might not get it but with additional tastings
    you get it.
  created: '2005-07-18 21:25:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" I argued that legibility was a practical matter really, and that any typeface
    could be turned into a text type, without benefit of science or theory.\"\r\n\r\n\"Have
    I proved my point?\"\r\n\r\nWell, I think if you were trying to prove that you
    could take an advertising display face and turn it into an adverstising text face,
    with the benefit of typographic science and theory to guide you, e.g. that you
    make proven design changes to facilitate better reading, then either you proved
    your point or the opposite. I did not read the original thread. . . "
  created: '2005-07-18 22:24:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">with the benefit of typographic science and theory\r\n\r\nThe idea was not
    to use science and theory.\r\nThe reason this face was chosen for the experiment
    was, I think, because it has features which are not conducive to legibility, according
    to theory. \r\nYou hit the nail on the head by saying that the design changes
    are \"proven\" -- they are based on established type design practice and principles,
    rather than reading theory."
  created: '2005-07-18 23:12:17'
- author:
    name: Martin LAllier
    picture: 110634
  body: "Reading the previous thread would probably prove beneficial to my understanding
    of the matter, but as far as proving anything I wonder exactly what. That any
    font may be readable? \r\n\r\nA new font as constrasted as Eunoia - very nice
    design btw -, in the context of a text setting, has the same effect for my eyes
    as an old typeface like Bodoni: vertical lines vibrate too much to really enjoy
    the text and - better - forget the font and concentrate on the content...\r\n\r\nI'll
    go put my bulletproof vest now that I got in between Mr Shinn and Mr Papazian."
  created: '2005-07-19 01:22:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I suspect that you and Hrant are talking past each other a bit. It seems
    to me that what you have done is to make a version of Eunoia that stands up to
    being used at bodytext <em>sizes</em>, and this is, as you say, a practical matter
    involving tried and true design adjustments that require no theoretical basis
    or justification. Stems need to be strengthened, counters need to be enlarged,
    etc. and these are practical procedures that would be applied to any display face
    in order to make it function at small sizes. But I really don't think this is
    what Hrant is talking about, because there is a significant difference between
    making a typeface function at small sizes and making a typeface that is comfortable
    to read for extended text, which is what we typically mean by readability.\r\n\r\nNow,
    this is not to say that I agree with Hrant that text face design should proceed
    <em>from</em> theoretical and/or empirical understanding of the reading process
    (see the recent Noordzij thread). Although I am quite interested in how it can
    proceed <em>to</em> that understanding. There are plenty of practical ways in
    which to begin the design process, including looking closely at typefaces that
    one enjoys reading and figuring out what contributes to that experience."
  created: '2005-07-19 01:56:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">there is a significant difference between making a typeface function at
    small sizes and making a typeface that is comfortable to read for extended text,
    \r\n\r\nI find that much of the technique is the same. It's not just a question
    of strengthening stems and enlarging counters -- that's a legibility rquirement,
    to enable the details to have sufficient presence. Rather, it's a question of
    making the letters combine to create a texture appropriate to their size, and
    hence maximize the efficiency of the reading process. "
  created: '2005-07-19 02:33:48'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Darn. When I cracked open this thread I was hoping that Shinn was going to
    challenge Papazian to a boxing match or at least a dance contest at [[TypeCon]]
    this week. =/\r\n\r\nNice stuff Nick. I can definitely see how Eunoia Text is
    a much better alternative to the regular."
  created: '2005-07-19 03:18:03'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "I'm not clear on what exactly is at stake in the issue between science v.s.
    experience in the case of which typefaces are most comfortable to read. If it
    is a case of having physical descriptions of how the eye moves about while reading,
    etc., I don't really see how this will help. I say this because it seems to me
    that which typefaces are most readable is discoverable via preference determination.
    In other words since we want typefaces that are most comfortable to read, and
    comfort pertains to subjective response, it seems most pracical to just ask readers
    which they prefer. And since type has evolved over time at least in part in response
    to reader preferences, I don't see how lab research provides an edge over the
    \"wisdom\" garnered over the years. Readability may have objective and observable
    entailments, but what seems to be most relevant is the subjective preference of
    the reader and not the accounts we provide of those preferences. \r\n\r\nIf I
    prefer to read Type X over Type Y, then this you can find out by asking me. You
    don't need to quantify electro-chemical responses in the brain or nervous system
    to figure this out. Even if you could what more would you discover other than
    some other description telling you exactly what I just told you? Is it a question
    of <em>why</em>, in EM terminology? For example, \"John-Paul prefers to read Caslon
    over Meta because the serifs allow his brain to process word shapes 4% faster
    in the former.\" How would you know this except by asking me and timing my responses?
    It's not like you can measure the time between photons impinging on the retinas
    and the comprehension of the word meaning by following the neural impulses (although
    that would be cool). You'd take what you could measure (eye movements and the
    like) and combine that with my accounts of subjective responses and develop a
    theory out of that. But all you'd be doing, really, is accounting for preferences
    in a very roundabout way.\r\n\r\nBasically what I'm saying is that even if there
    are fixed physical characteristics which act as constraints upon preferences toward
    particular qualities in font design, what's at stake seems to be the preferences
    themselves and not whatever theories we happen to develop to account for those
    preferences. The best way to determine those preference is just to ask readers
    which they prefer. Personally I prefer Comic sans printed in bright green on yellow
    paper. (Actually if I ever saw that I'd probably try to kill myself.)"
  created: '2005-07-19 03:56:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nick, I found the thread you were refering to here at the begining of this
    thread while I was looking for comment you had made about 'sparkle'. I wondered
    if this was going to happen. It seemed like no, since it had been so long....
    but here it is. I am surprised!\r\n\r\nI have to admit that I don't know if I
    would define this face as a text face yet. But I am reacting I am sure to the
    lack of serifs - and the lowercase a keeps stopping my eye. It still seems too
    unfamilair in feeling to be a text face.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand if you decided
    to you could no doubt keep altering the face until it felt more like the other
    sans faces. A slight reduction in contrast and 15% less height would probably
    work to ake it feel more text ready to me.\r\n\r\nNo doubt you have improved the
    legibility at small sizes. If that counts as a win then chalk up a win in my book.
    If you are claming better readability than any of the other sans faces in the
    PDF then I am not ready to accept that.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-19 06:59:49'
- author:
    name: Brian_
    picture: 110618
  body: "What can be measured? A big question, right?\r\nProportion of thick to thin,
    rate of change from thick to thin, average width of the letters, average descender
    length, the list goes on for miles. \"Design is relationships\", and if you want
    to measure readability it's a matter of figuring out which relationships are most
    important. With art in general, it usually means contrast, color, texture, balance
    - all of which apply to type. \r\n\r\nBut you do have to consider that type is
    becoming more \"personal.\" With more people learning about type, they are starting
    to have predisposed tendencies. This would affect, and have to be considered,
    in any emperical study of readability to have a true bearing with today's readers.\r\n\r\nTherefore,
    to say that one typeface is the most legible because of certain  characteristics..
    well.. you might just be getting a Kinkade.\r\n\r\nSo maybe we should say readability
    potential? This implies that even if someone has certain predispositions, the
    typeface itself has more potential for better readability, if one were to \"stick
    with\" reading it.\r\n\r\nAs for Eunoia specifically, even in basic analysis,
    \"glyph recognition time\" is out the window. But at least it isn't.. well.. a
    font of light.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-20 05:06:52'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: (Brian, love love love your icon. I'm going to remember to laugh about it
    later too.)
  created: '2005-07-20 08:00:26'
- author:
    name: loginfailed
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nI would like to read the original thread, can't find it though...
    \r\n\r\nCan anyone please post the URL? \r\nThanks in advance!\r\n\r\nSander"
  created: '2005-07-20 10:10:38'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "I'll post a link, but i'm afraid that the original thread got fractured when
    it was ported over and pieces are missing and it may not make sense, but i'll
    give it a search.\r\n\r\nhere are a couple bits of it:\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/6020\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/6174\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/5908\r\n\r\nthe
    original (in parts):\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/42553.html?1091979376\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/43155.html?1092409128\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/42042.html?1093405089\r\n\r\nokay,
    i hope i got all of it (cuz i won't be able to edit this entry if i didn't, grrrr!).
    enjoy!"
  created: '2005-07-20 14:16:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I\u2019m not clear on what exactly is at stake in the issue between science
    v.s. experience in the case of which typefaces are most comfortable to read.</em>\r\n\r\nComfort
    is only one of the criteria by which readability can be judged, and yes, it is
    the most subjective, although one shouldn't assume that there is nothing to be
    measured or that preference necessarily corresponds to measurable aspects of comfort,
    e.g. eye-strain. The other major criteria are reading speed and reading accuracy.
    There is inevitably an inverse relationship between these two: as speed increases,
    accuracy typically drops. At some point, an increase speed in forward saccades
    is lost because of the number of regressions caused by misreadings. When Hrant
    talks about improved readability, I think what he is referring to is increased
    speed without loss of accuracy. So let's assume a base level of accuracy: Hrant
    wants to know how to maintain that while increasing the reading speed. If that
    is your goal, then taking an interest in the mechanics of reading makes a lot
    of sense."
  created: '2005-07-20 19:38:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My intention in undertaking this design was to demonstrate that any theory
    of reading acquired in scientific studies has no practical use, because type designers
    already know what works. Sure, we may think that people read by recognizing word
    shapes, and this may be incorrect, but that has no bearing on the efficacy of
    our work.\r\n\r\nI was taken by a definition of design from Alex Isley, at Typecon,
    \"right and wrong answers need to be developed through experimentation.\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    what I did with \"Eunoia Text\". There are several versions which I produced,
    which are not as successful as the one I showed. At least, in the designer's opinion.
    What else can you trust, unless...\r\n\r\nSurely, the way to combine reading research
    with design development would be to test prototype options?"
  created: '2005-07-26 19:25:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Surely, the way to combine reading research with design development would
    be to test prototype options?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. I think my position is somewhere
    between yours and Hrant's, but also orthogonal to them and at a distance. As I've
    said repeatedly, I think the mass of everyday experiential evidence indicates
    that readerability matters much more to the reading process than the readability
    of what is read. But I don't think this should be taken as license to ignore empirical
    study of reading: I think the statement that 'type designers already know what
    works' is misleading if we think it applies to design. What we know works is readerability,
    our incredibly sophisticated and adaptive pattern recognition skills. This system
    is so good that we have to consider the possibility that our type designs succeed
    <em>despite their design.</em> In design terms, the question is not what works
    but why it works and, considering that, <em>what else might work.</em>"
  created: '2005-07-26 20:34:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"In design terms, the question is not what works but why it works and, considering
    that, what else might work.\"\r\n\r\nIsn't exactly what Nick is saying when he
    writes: \"I was taken by a definition of design from Alex Isley, at Typecon, \u201Cright
    and wrong answers need to be developed through experimentation.\u201D?\r\nScientists
    need designs which exist to have something to measure.  All of these designs were
    made by people using their own measure of success. The differences in type perceived
    by readers is quite subtle.  How do we measure it? Does a very good sans read
    better than a bad serif face? Someone please show me data on exactly how much
    faster people read a \"good\" face rather than a \"bad\" one.  Is the difference
    dramatic or so small that it does not matter much? There are dozens of variables
    to separate and control.  \r\nCan a face which reads slower actually aid in communication?
    (stopping to smell the roses).\r\nMy car can go 140 miles per hour. Should I drive
    that fast? Should I take \"Scenic route 1a\" or \"I-95\" on my journey up the
    East coast of the U.S.? Would I rather read the scrawled handwriting of my Grandparents
    who died years ago or just see their letters in Din on a highway sign? If someone
    scrawls in their own blood \"Help Me!\" on a wall does it say more than a perfectly
    formatted typography in the most readable face known to science? Context matters,
    layout and design matters, value added matters.  We can measure saccades but what
    does it really mean? We have to be able to put all the variables back together
    to get information that is meaningful but this is almost impossible. I am not
    saying don't do research. I am saying don't read more into its implications than
    is really there.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-26 23:07:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Terry Biddy reminded me of an old thread I started last year in his post
    on the Design section.  He points to:\r\n<http://typophile.com/node/6026>\r\nWe
    often tilt at readability/legibility here on Typophile but never seem to come
    to a workable solution.  Perhaps that is an indication of how slippery a beast
    legibility really is?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-27 13:21:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "sorry, the link is:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/6026\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-27 13:23:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "...And the best research can only test what goes into it. Hrant's critique
    of the reasearch up to this date makes this point. Lots of reasearch is done on
    all kinds of things all the time. But there is high quality reseasrch, inspired
    research, and churned out research not worth the paper it's printed on.  \r\n\r\nStill,
    I disagree with Hrant's emphasis on denigration of creativity/art. Craft is fine
    & needed - but inovation comes from inspiration as well as insight. \r\n\r\nI
    also have to take issue with Nick Shinn when he says 'designers know what works'.
    Sure, a good designer feels what is working & what isn't without the aid of saccade
    research etc & font design has come a long way without this research. And to prove
    it you can get enormously beautiful and fuctional type today! But let's not throw
    away useful tools.\r\n\r\nNick you are in favor of experimentation ( who isn't
    really ) but do you or or don't you mean 'scientific' experiementation?  Is it
    saccade research that you think isn't meaningful - maybe for the reasons Chris
    L brought up - or scientific analysis of type & reading in general? Re-reading
    your most recent paragraph confuses me more & more!\r\n\r\n> readerability\r\n\r\nJohn,
    You may have said what you meant by this term but I missed it. Could you remind
    me/us?\r\n\r\n> Chris L - nice points!"
  created: '2005-07-28 00:07:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">do you or or don\u2019t you mean \u2018scientific\u2019 experiementation?\r\n\r\nFirst,
    I'm stating that design involves experimentation.\r\nIn the designer's studio,
    I'll design glyphs and see which kind work best in a sample piece of text, refine
    the design, and so on. Then also in the typographic culture at large, because
    that's where the success, dare one say readability, of typefaces is determined,
    by whether new designs are bought and used. The knowledge type designers acquire
    by carrying out their work is derived from studio and marketplace experiments
    with typefaces. Not scientific, but practical.\r\n\r\nCompare this with biometric
    experiments to develop theories on how people read.\r\nIf these are to be connected
    with the goal of making better fonts (faster, according to the Larson standard),
    then why not design fonts to test specific aspects of the reading process? Research
    and development. Unless type design is integrated into readability experiments,
    they will have little practical use for making more ergonomic types.\r\n\r\nClaude
    Hopkins invented \"Scientific Advertising\" in the 1920s, with split-run direct
    mailing, to determine which techniques were most effective."
  created: '2005-07-28 03:31:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>readerability</em>\r\n\r\nQuite simply, reader ability. I compressed
    it into one work to stress the comparison to readability. Before we can meaningfully
    debate the readability of typeface design, we need to have a reasonable appreciation
    of the typical ability of the reader, which I maintain is very high indeed."
  created: '2005-07-28 07:33:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Illuminating! Both of you! Thanks.
  created: '2005-07-28 08:12:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Unless type design is integrated into readability experiments, \r\n\r\nThis
    has happened with the Cleartype fonts, and their performance has proved to be
    measurably better with Cleartype on than with it off. However, while the process
    may have helped with micro-rendering, I don't believe that reading research has
    helped designers with specifics about glyph forms, which they didn't already know.
    For instance, Gary Munch says \"it's important to keep them [the letters] open
    and clear, and to space them so they read well in small sizes\". Surely this is
    common knowledge.\r\n\r\nJohn, can you identify any features or principles of
    your Cleartype face which were developed and tested, optimizing its performance?
    Is any of this contrary to established wisdom?"
  created: '2005-07-28 12:03:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The design of the ClearType font collection and the research that the MS
    \ Advanced Reading Technologies team has been doing on screen readability are
    better seen as parallel developments: the briefing to the designers was primarily
    concerned with the the rendering technology, not with the study of the impact
    of that technology on screen reading speed and accuracy. The research that had
    been done up to that date had been concerned with testing whether there was a
    measurable improvement in readability with ClearType as opposed to traditional
    greyscale antialiasing or b/w bitmaps. That research didn't attempt to arrive
    at design recommendations, but it did provide the justification for designing
    new types that would take advantage of the benefits of ClearType (x-direction
    resolution enhancement) while compensating as much as possible for the device-imposed
    limitations (no antialiasing in the y-direction at text sizes). Testing during
    the design process involved seeing how the shapes were rendered on screen at different
    sizes in ClearType environments, and trying to improve that rendering. I'm not
    sure that I would characterise anything in the design of Constantia as being 'contrary
    to established wisdom', but I definitely made a lot of design decisions that I
    would not have made if I had been designing solely for print media. But, again,
    this was in response to the particular target rendering circumstances, not in
    response to readability studies per se.\r\n\r\nThere is a new line of study being
    followed by MS, partly as a result of the legibility forum at last year's conference
    Thessaloniki, which is concerned with testing specific 'received wisdom'. Kevin
    Larson has been conducting tests on spacing, measuring the impact of looser or
    tighter letterspacing on reading accuracy. This is the sort of work that may challenge
    traditional practices.\r\n\r\nThe question -- which Mary Dyson put to the assembled
    type designers in Thessaloniki -- is whether we would actually do anything different
    if empirical evidence ran contrary to our beliefs and practices. Hrant's repeated
    response to any evidence that is contrary to what he believes is to find reasons
    to dismiss that evidence. This is a good impulse so long as it is honestly applied,
    and not only to evidence that is inconvenient but to all the evidence, empirical
    and anecdotal.\r\n\r\nMy theory that readerability is the dominant factor in reading
    is based on my experience designing for multiple writing systems. The variety
    of human writing systems in use -- variety not only of form and style (design),
    which also exists within individual writing systems, but also variety of phonemic
    system, direction, layout -- and the proficiency with which they are <em>all</em>
    read on a daily basis, strongly suggests that the impact of design, once a base
    level of legibility had been achieved, is minimal. This is not to say that design
    in of no importance to readability, but that its importance is particular rather
    than general; it is important, for instance, to specific circumstances of reproduction,
    e.g. resolution, print conditions, etc."
  created: '2005-07-28 19:16:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: john, feel free to contribute to the new entry on [[readerability]].
  created: '2005-07-28 19:30:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> This is not to say that design in of no importance to readability, but
    that its importance is particular rather than general; it is important, for instance,
    to specific circumstances of reproduction, e.g. resolution, print conditions,
    etc.\r\n\r\nWe can enumerate ways in which this is so - \r\n\r\n1. Size - Glyphs
    designed for use as headlines need different shapes & emphasis than a glyph to
    be used at 6pt. \r\n2. Paper - Newsprint is different than glossy sheet. Glyphs
    must change accordingly\r\n3. Screen - Glyphs have to be designed with awareness
    of grid & in some cases rendering engines\r\n4. Film - Spikes to ensure a sharp
    edge etc.\r\n5. Hyper large building size type probably has it's own needs...
    \r\n6. Neon too.\r\n7. Driving signage...\r\n\r\nHave I left anything out? I bet
    I have. Undersea type?\r\n\r\nOn the other hand are you really saying that comfort
    in reading due to glyph distinctiveness, consistancy, color rythym & so on are
    not important? No, you are are saying doing a superb job with these ( & maybe
    even with notan ) can offer very marginal additional benefit in readability beyond
    that which exists in designs we have already got. \r\n\r\nRight?\r\n\r\nIf so,
    then the job of a type designer must be to match type to a purpose and the condition
    of use & then maybe to meet aesthetic criteria if needed.\r\n\r\nSpeed is not
    going to change too much - so why be too concerned?\r\n\r\nHave I understood you?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-28 21:26:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>you are are saying doing a superb job with these ( & maybe even with
    notan ) can offer very marginal additional benefit in readability beyond that
    which exists in designs we have already got.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that is a good summary
    of my position. Note, however, that I see this as a starting position, not as
    a concluding position. It defines the functional foundation of readability on
    which rest the other aspects of type design, such as those you enumerate and also,
    of course, the cultural and aesthetic aspects. I've often been at odds with Hrant
    when he has seemed to suggest that readability is a difficult to achieve goal;
    I think of it as a prerequisite: one that is reasonably easy for an experienced
    type designer to achieve, thanks to readerability. Readerability is really what
    makes the immense richness of typography possible; if reading were difficult and
    required the designer's attention to be completely focused on maximising readability,
    there would probably only be two or three type designs that met the narrow criteria.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 01:20:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Have I proved my point?\r\n\r\nGiven how unsuited Eunoia is to text--you
    said you designed it to shimmer and sparkle--you have moved it astonishingly far
    toward text. But as I said in the original thread, whether it succeeds as a text
    font depends on what you mean by 'text font.' \r\n\r\nIf by a text font you mean
    a font that can be read in masses of text, such as in a book or long magazine
    article, my answer would be, no, you have not proved your point. Now I don't think
    any of your comparitor fonts are 'text' fonts by this standard, either. They are
    suitable for a few paragraphs at most in an ad or report, in my opinion. But even
    by comparison with those three, your Eunoia--which will be admiradably eye catching
    for display--still has too much shimmer compared to the other fonts, a quality
    I think is undesirable in a text font. \r\n\r\nOn the issue of the role of science,
    I don't get what the argument is about. I think the reality is that science hasn't
    yet penetrated to the reading process to the point to give good advice type designers.
    Maybe Kevin Larson will discover new facts about spacing that will help type designers.
    If so great; I think designers would be foolish to ignore these facts, if they
    are relevant to the design brief they are undertaking.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 02:15:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">If by a text font you mean a font that can be read in masses of text, such
    as in a book or long magazine article,\r\n\r\nNo, I mean immersive reading in
    general, not just long texts.\r\nThe sample I showed would be suitable for a magazine
    sidebar.\r\n\r\nI admit it's a little too contrasty for many applications, and
    condensed sans serifs don't make good book faces, but it's still a genuine text
    face, thanks to readerability."
  created: '2005-07-29 02:47:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "John - I agree with you about the richness of type. Any idea what lies out
    there in the great beyond - that is beyond the starting point? Any guesses? \r\n\r\nNick
    - What do you think of John's assertions? It sounds like you like the basic tenets
    of readerability as expressed so far no?\r\n\r\nNick - Ah so THATS what you mean.
    Of course this is never going to satisfy Hrant but ...\r\nI do agree that it could
    be used as a magazine sidebar but I dont know that I would with this version.
    I guess one mans text face is another man's display face. The magazine would have
    to be pretty funky. \r\n\r\nI am still impressed that you did it all the same."
  created: '2005-07-29 05:52:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">What do you think of John\u2019s assertions?\r\n\r\nWe share the same understanding,
    if not the same taste."
  created: '2005-07-29 11:24:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Where are the pertinent, focused questions, people? I don't want to sound
    condascending, but I do think all the noise -some of it wonderful, but still distracting-
    is preventing this thread from becoming truly fruitful.\r\n\r\nAsking good questions
    is the real \"challenge\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 17:53:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Any idea what lies out there in the great beyond - that is beyond the
    starting point? Any guesses?</em>\r\n\r\nHow about most of the history of type
    design? It seems to me that consciously or otherwise, the majority of type design
    has accepted the reality of readerability, and has legitimately focused on the
    cultural and aesthetic aspects of typography. Every once in a while in that history,
    usually in response to changes in media, the basic question of readability resurfaces
    and is reconsidered <em>in the particular circumstances.</em> What this tells
    us is that readability is an issue of particularity, and is generally taken for
    granted. Quite simply, the cultural and aesthetic aspects of e.g. Bodoni's types
    are more important than their relative readability compared to, say, Caslon's
    types, because readerability can handle them <em>well enough.</em> We can object
    that these romantic types are not easy to read, even in measurable terms, but
    the fact remains that entire generations of Italian and French readers read almost
    nothing else, and they read a lot and they wrote a lot, and they painted a lot,
    and they composed a lot, and these types formed part of the cultural milieu that
    inspired them. And that is probably more important than the fact that they cannot
    be considered optimally readable. So this is what I think lies beyond the prerequisite
    of readability.\r\n\r\nNow, while readerability allows us to take readability
    for granted much of the time, we shouldn't always take it for granted, because
    that would just make us lazy. As alluded to above, developments in new reproduction
    technologies and media may demand new approaches to type design, and at such times
    the question of readability should be reviewed. One shouldn't presume that what
    worked in one medium will work in another, although often one will find that lessons
    and experience do carry over.\r\n\r\nAlso, we shouldn't underestimate the cultural
    and aesthetic achievements that might result from seriously thinking about readability,
    achievements that might well be more significant than any measurable improvement
    in reading speed and accuracy. What benefits type design is the seriousness of
    the thinking. I think Legato is an excellent example of this."
  created: '2005-07-29 20:17:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant, ask some! I want to know what you think needs asking. \r\n\r\nAlso,
    this is a bit far fetched ( but so was this project ) - but what if nick let us
    have eps vectors of say 3-5 important letters from the new text version & let
    us change them to indicate what we think it would take to make a genuine text
    version. This way our ideas are made a bit more visible. Any takers? Is this a
    decent enough number of letters? \r\n\r\nNick - What do you think of this idea?\r\n\r\nJohn,
    I imagine I can intuit some of what you mean by seriousness when I look at legato
    - but it seems so wonderful I am overwhelmed. I could just study it for a long
    time. - Actually that is what I am going to do \r\n\r\nand I found this\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/53822.html\r\n\r\nwhich
    I am still reading \r\n\r\nBut what is that you notice that make you use the word
    serious?\r\n\r\nWhoa! I didn't ever hope to get so much from Evert! Especially
    now that he's gone.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-03 20:57:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Nick - What do you think of this idea?\r\n\r\nI'm afraid I don't think there's
    much point in it -- I've taken this typeface just about as far as it can go in
    the direction of being a legible text face, while still maintaining its personality.
    Sure, the contrast could be reduced, and changes made to the letter shapes to
    increase character distinction (eg an asymmetric \"n\"), but then it wouldn't
    be the same typeface, it would start to turn into Dax."
  created: '2005-08-04 00:47:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"it would start to turn into Dax\"\r\n\r\nor maybe UPS :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-04 13:11:31'
- author:
    name: BartvanderGriendt
    picture: 109896
  body: "I remember Evert Bloemsma leading a discussion in our typography-class at
    the academy, about legibility. He seemed to be an advocate for legibility as a
    function of typedesign and environment (paper, printing conditions, lighting,
    etc.).\r\n\r\nI think that in the end this a nature-nurture like discussion. \r\n\r\nScientific
    understanding almost dictates that there should be geometrical properties of type
    that enhance legibility (i.e. speed up perception, in the same way a symmetrical
    form takes less time to perceive and recognize than an assymmetrical one. A friend
    of mine just finished his thesis on this subject, proving that symmetry and repetition
    are perceived using less 'processing power'). \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, there
    is Evert's point. Reading is not a one dimensional process. Environment does play
    a crucial part. Rather like genes - the most well adapted genotype can still fail
    miserably in a hostile environment.\r\n\r\nThis places the typographer somewhere
    in the middle between hard facts and soft knowledge. I see both ends as mere viewpoints.
    Looking through science I understand and learn. Following Evert I understand an
    learn.\r\n\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nMy work
    is a game. A very serious game [M.C. Escher]"
  created: '2005-08-04 14:04:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bart, that's exactly how I feel. You're so lucky to have been Evert's student.\r\nMost
    students are simply trained to mimic the mainstream - sad.\r\n\r\nHowever, as
    much as I love the topic of readability, and anything to do with Evert*, I would
    like to see the good direction taken by Eben and Nick built upon. They've managed
    to regain focus here - let's help that. Nick's post specifically contains one
    of the main keys to this whole conundrum.\r\n\r\n* See my article here: http://www.designinflight.com/\r\n\r\nThat
    said, I think your introduction of the \"symmetry factor\" is wonderful, and deserves
    its own thread. I myself have a few ideas concerning that. So it would be great
    if we could springboard from it... but not here!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-04 15:57:35'
- author:
    name: BartvanderGriendt
    picture: 109896
  body: "Point taken, hrant. :-)\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nMy
    work is a game. A very serious game [M.C. Escher]"
  created: '2005-08-04 16:48:12'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: And don't ya just love the use of Alfon and Giacomo in Design In Flight!
  created: '2005-08-04 16:58:19'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'for a followup to John Hudson''s readerability comments in this thread, see:
    http://typophile.com/node/14373'
  created: '2005-08-04 17:04:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Is this thing still on?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 18:42:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "There is so much to read on this & these related threads that maybe everybody
    is still chewing on what's on their plates already...\r\n\r\nI am trying to paint
    my houses' trim this week & it's cutting into typophilia time."
  created: '2005-08-08 20:21:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> everybody is still chewing on what\u2019s on their plates already\u2026\r\n\r\nHowever,
    this thread:\r\n1) went quiet before the current -wonderful- explosion.\r\n2)
    is the most challenging.\r\n\r\nI recommend re-reading Nick's most-recent post
    carefully, to see the key.\r\n\r\nAnd where's Forrest?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 20:27:42'
- author:
    name: Denis Pelli
    picture: 115062
  body: "dear nick\r\n\r\ni'd like to read this interesting thread, but the link to
    your font is broken:\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Eunoia_Text.pdf\r\n\r\nmight
    you restore it?\r\n\r\ndenis"
  created: '2008-11-14 09:47:33'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: I officially declare today 'Day of the Living Dead (Threads)'
  created: '2008-11-14 10:09:34'
- author:
    name: Theunis de Jong
    picture: 114717
  body: "This phenomenon even has a name: <em>necroposting</em>\r\n\r\nI sincerely
    hope it won't make typophiles into necrophiles."
  created: '2008-11-14 11:26:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The nerve, to discriminate against necrophiliacs!\r\n(Reminds me of a <em>killer</em>
    cartoon in my college paper.)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSeriously: I was looking for this
    thread the other day* but couldn't find it.\r\nNick, could you <em>please</em>
    revive that PDF, or at least a GIF rendering?\r\n\r\n* Because of this:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/today/hi/today/newsid_7697000/7697762.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-14 14:43:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Loops on bold fonts now form lots of words for books.</em>\r\n\r\nbut
    srlsy, i'm going start using 'plus' instead of 'and' when i speak (using all u
    sounds)."
  created: '2008-11-14 15:38:59'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I reminded Nick's statement (and I quite agreed, but I have to read in full
    all there, especially John Hudson's reflections).\r\nAnd I was going to ask precisely
    the same thing: please Nick, offer a new PDF with the setting!"
  created: '2008-11-14 20:07:29'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: .
  created: '2009-12-18 12:53:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '{I have removed this post because Nick has forbade me from participating
    in threads he has started. Continued: http://typophile.com/node/65216 - 12/17/09}'
  created: '2009-12-18 14:36:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks, Hrant.\r\n\r\n<em>forbade</em>\r\n\r\nIIRC the abstinence was Hrant's
    idea. "
  created: '2009-12-18 16:55:24'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Some of the better reading I have had here in a while. I love a good are vs.
    science debate. In these materials x-height, character count, letter-spacing and
    hyphenation are confounded. It is not possible to determine "legibility" until
    first define what that means, select dependent variables, generate a testable
    hypothesis, develop additional materials, select a sample population and generate
    a balanced experimental design.
  created: '2009-12-18 20:33:35'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "I'm not getting it.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"The sample I showed would be suitable
    for a magazine sidebar.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat kind of magazine?"
  created: '2009-12-18 21:36:50'
date: '2005-07-18 14:37:06'
node_type: forum
title: Shinn vs. Papazian challenge

---
