---
author:
  name: starlux
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI'm working on a logo for my design portfolio (Level D). I need
  some fresh eyes to take a look at the direction I'm going in. Any suggestions or
  comments are greatly appreciated.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nTammy"
comments:
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I like it, its very... uh... transparent ?
  created: '2005-07-24 19:08:36'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: Do you mean its too obvious?
  created: '2005-07-24 19:27:19'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "Do you mean its too obvious?\r\n\r\nI think he wanted to say: a sample, please?"
  created: '2005-07-24 19:43:11'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: Oh wow I didn't realize it wasn't attached. I'm positive I attached it...but
    I no longer see a submit button for images. I'll try again in a minute.
  created: '2005-07-24 20:21:07'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "This link should work... http://www.starluxdesign.com/level_d_protos_a.pdf\r\n\r\nsorry
    about that"
  created: '2005-07-24 20:32:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: So this logo is meant to be your own - for your design company right? Or is
    it a school project for a hypothetical company? Please explain the context.
  created: '2005-07-25 03:53:27'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: Yes...it's for me...my own design company/portfolio...graphic/web design.
  created: '2005-07-25 05:40:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "So let me start asking questions based on that. What does 'level D' mean
    & why pick that name as opposed to 'level Z' or something. Is the 'D' meaningful?
    Is so in what way? Right now this is not too obvious. It sounds a little like
    a parking garage. Is that the idea?\r\n\r\nWhat kind of design do you do? What
    kind of design to you want to do next?\r\n\r\nI think your off to a good start
    but I think to avise you further I would need to know more. Feel free to fill
    in anything else you think is important but which I have failed to ask about."
  created: '2005-07-25 06:17:47'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: As Eben spoke, please give us the details. Do you have a creative brief you
    could post? Assuming this is not mearly superficial aesthetic, one would need
    to what what you are trying to achieve before giving a proper review.
  created: '2005-07-25 07:11:27'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\"Is the \u2018D\u2019 meaningful?\"\r\n\r\nI think this is her last name
    \u2014 Dyer"
  created: '2005-07-25 07:13:07'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "First thoughts level is to large (if you want it to relate to the negative
    space in the D)and optically appears below center of the shape. Solve the graphic
    problems in black and white then explore color. Level is a boring typeface and
    you need to work on the spacing. Lastly you are a graphic designer tell people
    you are, don't leave it up to imagination.\r\n\r\nOne more request, please post
    gifs in the future they are smaller and load quickly. That PDF was over 600K"
  created: '2005-07-25 12:05:03'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: The treatment used in the center column works better in making the "D" obvious.
  created: '2005-07-25 12:48:27'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Hi again,\r\n\r\nThanks for the responses. The meaning of level d? To be
    honest I looked for words that I like the sound of first. The meaning came after.
    The D is design. And it doesn't hurt that my last name starts with a D. So...combos
    like Terminal D and Area D came up. I liked the sound of Terminal D but it means
    the end and although most would associate it with a section of an airport some
    might think death. In the end I settled on Level D and decided that I liked the
    various definitions of the word. For example, (adj) Rational and balanced; sensible,
    or (n) A relative degree, as of achievement, intensity, or concentration and (n)
    A natural or proper position, place, or stage...\r\n\r\nWhere do I want to go
    with design? I'm currently in a place where I want to explore other arenas of
    design...work with my hands more. Most of my experience has been with corporate
    design...newsletters, brochures, books, magazines, identities, etc. So this is
    a space for me to explore.\r\n\r\nAbout solving the problems in black in white
    first...you're right. I'll work on that and repost with gifs next time. So regarding
    the comment that I should tell people who I am...are you saying that the word
    design should be a part of the logo? \r\n\r\nI used Din because it looked like
    it might be used for a parking or street sign. Perhaps I should move away from
    that aesthetic. I'll definitely explore other options.\r\n\r\nThanks again for
    your help. I'm moving today so I won't be able to show you anything new until
    the end of the week."
  created: '2005-07-25 18:20:36'
- author:
    name: sansser
  body: "Hi.\r\nI personally like/love the last four in the 2nd column\u2014the box/D
    combo (not the rounded corners version.\r\nIt is more simple, coherent and a stronger,
    more ownable quality than the rest. I like the various colors that you've applied
    to the logo. You could actually choose a palette of colors and use them all depending
    on what section of your portfolio one is reviewing. There are a great number of
    ways in which you could apply the logo to various touch points.\r\n\r\nCriticism:\r\nIf
    it were mine, I would work on the kerning of the word a little more... There is
    a spacing issue particularity between the v and the first e. I suggest tightening
    it up a bit. Try squiniting your eyes when looking at the word and keep tightening
    up the space until it looks coherent to the other letter spacing in the word.
    \r\n\r\nHope that helps."
  created: '2005-07-25 18:33:28'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "I like the whole 'starlux' thing you have going with your site. It wreaks
    of creativity. If you're trying to come up with something 'more serious', I don't
    see the benefit. To me, Starlux says eclectic designer, levelD, I don't know.
    Maybe trying to hard?\r\n\r\n:)"
  created: '2005-07-25 19:26:07'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I'd try one making the 'D' the same color as the type.\r\n\r\nAnd, well,
    I do have to agree with Eric. I think your current logo is great. Stick with that.
    ;o)"
  created: '2005-07-26 15:46:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Now that I have looked at the site & read what you said I am starting to guess
    that you wanted something heavy & pro instead of the more 'girly' starlux. I may
    be off base here but that's my guess. I can see that - however I think that folks
    are right here in suggesting that you may not want to abondon statlux. There is
    equity in your existing name because you have done work under that name already.
    Also 'starlux' is more memorable than 'level D'. People forget they parked at
    level D alll the time. What is to stop them from forgetting you? Starlux is memorable.
    I would suggest redesigning starlux to carry the new feeling you want to evoke.
    To do that you have to figure out what you want people to think about you. Even
    if it isn't true - yet.
  created: '2005-07-27 06:56:38'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: I'm going to echo Eben in the previous post. Starlux is definatley a more
    memorable name. My only suggestion in a re-design of starlux would be not to consider
    a 'star' in the effort. ;)
  created: '2005-07-27 17:21:39'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "You've all given me a lot to think about. And you're right I was starting
    to feel like the logo was a bit girly...the font a bit to fragile. Revamping the
    starlux logo may be the way to go...\r\n\r\nThanks so much for the input. You've
    helped a lot."
  created: '2005-07-27 18:25:12'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Revamp Starlux, it works and is unique and it has Font Diner qualities, 50s
    retro. You might investigate this as a direction.
  created: '2005-07-27 22:54:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Starlux in an anime/techno/future style might fly too. Or maybe a highend
    luxury style - like this:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.orangeitalic.com/luxury/\r\n\r\nYou
    could be as serious or faux about it as you wantd to be. But it would take the
    emphasis on Lux. Which is cool.\r\n\r\nThen there is always the dish or laundry
    soap model of lux - with a big swoosh underneath\r\n\r\nOr maybe something really
    absract & cool like this\r\n\r\nhttp://www.funsci.com/fun3_en/exper2/exper2.htm\r\n\r\nwill
    you be posting more stuff later?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 23:17:04'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: Once things settle down in my new place, I'll have a chance to work on this
    again. Hopefully, I can post some new ideas in the first week or two of August.
    I'm definitely going to experiment with some of your suggestions.
  created: '2005-07-28 01:12:51'
- author:
    name: wrayco
    picture: 110864
  body: "You could have so much fun with Starlux and find a thick script font and
    then customize it to give it the strength and stand-out quality that perhaps you
    were going for with Level D. \r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://www.wraycodesign.com/starluxbw.gif\r\n\r\nhttp://www.wraycodesign.com/starluxcolor.gif"
  created: '2005-07-28 08:05:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Wrayco - nice!\r\n\r\nBTW I saw this tonight & thought of starlux - see the
    fu in Fumanchu?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.showandtellonline.com/_fu_manchu/\r\n\r\n-e."
  created: '2005-07-28 08:09:55'
- author:
    name: wrayco
    picture: 110864
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nyes, that is gorgeous! Exactly...."
  created: '2005-08-02 20:26:57'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nI'm back. I decided to stay with Starlux and rework the logo.
    I've started in on the process and decided that I want the logo to be a little
    playful, future/techno retro. Currently I'm using Eurostile and Gourmet.\r\n\r\nI
    thought I'd be able to post an image...looks like I'll have to create a link for
    you to view the project. One moment..."
  created: '2005-08-13 21:45:09'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Here it is.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.starluxdesign.com/starlux_new_logo.gif\r\n\r\nLet
    me know what you think. Thanks.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-13 22:14:48'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: I'm still a fan of your current logo. ;o)
  created: '2005-08-15 15:39:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You have a sweet seed ideas here but hese ideas sufffer from an overly staid
    or direct treatment. They just sort of sit there. It actually took me a while
    to realize that that must be a helmet - not a moden looking clock radio... It
    is a helmet isn't it?\r\n\r\nBefore you revise these why don't you tell us what
    you were aiming at with each idea - so we know what your intent is. Without knowing
    your intent I would feel silly suggesting methods of improvement.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-15 19:11:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'I like 1A, the helmets as Eben mentioned don''t cut it. I have bad associations
    with space exploriation since Discovery. Did you ever hear of Telstar? '
  created: '2005-08-15 22:20:22'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Yeah. I knew the astronaut helmets weren't really working. I was curious
    though if they would be recognized.\r\n\r\nWhat is my intent? I want fun, clean,
    sexy, futuristic, retro. I want all of these things without being to much of any
    of them. I wonder if that's asking to much? I don't want to be tired of it in
    6 months...like I am with my current logo. I don't think I went far enough. The
    type is too weak for what I want it to do...and the star and cloud are a bit obvious.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I may get into t-shirt and jewelry design soon; so I want it to hold up for those
    endeavors as well."
  created: '2005-08-15 22:49:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> What is my intent? I want fun, clean, sexy, futuristic, retro.\r\n\r\nI
    think you can embrace all these. Cool. I think you can do it with astronaut helmets
    too... Or not. With a cool name like StarLux I can imagine your having 10 logos
    - maybe one of them would be primary... \r\n\r\nHow does this site fit with your
    style?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.warprecords.com/chokrock/\r\n\r\nWhat if you made the
    logo fatter like that fumanchu thing I showed you before & then had it in the
    curved glass of the helmet?  You could get an above & 3/4 angle on the helmet...\r\n\r\nI
    am starting to see a psychedelic / pbs- 'electric company' animation thing...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-16 00:19:07'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "> How does this site fit with your style? http://www.warprecords.com/chokrock/\r\n\r\nThat's
    exactly the kind of feel I'm going for. I'm going to check out some other fonts
    and try to work that out better."
  created: '2005-08-16 00:24:37'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Tamara,\r\n\r\nYou might want to check out <a href=\"http://www.1001fonts.com/font_details.html?font_id=601\"
    target=\"_blank\">Glamacon *Retrobats*</a> for some ideas.  The space vixen is
    pretty cute."
  created: '2005-08-16 00:48:11'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: I'm still exploring fat script fonts, but I kind traveled in this direction
    for a little while today. http://www.starluxdesign.com/starlux_2.jpg. I think
    I'm liking it but I need to take a break from it...the spacing between star and
    lux needs to be worked out.
  created: '2005-08-16 02:35:54'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Try keeping the skeleton of the starlux you already have, and maybe put a
    little meat on the bones, give it a eeny weeny lil bit more contrast. The ones
    you posted recently still feel contrived. \r\n\r\nOk everybody, thumbs up or thumbs
    down ... Vote now on Starlux! \r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: starlux
    body: "Eric,\r\n\r\nI took your advice. When I was working up the original logo.
      I searched and searched and searched for the font that had the feel of starlux.
      I finally settled on Bickley Script. So why throw it away? I should just make
      it better.\r\n\r\nHere are my latest attempts. http://www.starluxdesign.com/starlux4ab5ab.jpg"
    created: '2005-08-16 17:01:50'
  created: '2005-08-16 06:16:26'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: I also decided to concentrate on the type for now. I was feeling boxed in
    by my website...which I like...but I was lettting it dictate the direction of
    the logo.
  created: '2005-08-16 17:07:14'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "Starlux,\r\n\r\nWhat does \"Starlux\"  mean -- the inspiration, or meaning
    behind that\r\nname?  If you want to use that as your design \"nickname\", you
    could\r\nutilize this conceptual, focal point within the logo.\r\n\r\nIt is interesting
    to experiment with typefaces, but keep in mind NOT\r\nto get too trendy.\r\n\r\nWhy?\r\n\r\nBecause,
    then you become just another one of those trendy designers\r\nwith lots of flash
    and little substance.\r\n\r\nIt would be great if your logo contained some good
    design as opposed\r\nto a \"flavor-of-the-month\" typeface."
  created: '2005-08-16 18:00:05'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "5A ... (of course!) ;P  ... Just crossed my mind, if you somehow arranged
    the star ... which is what is making me see your current logo as being a bit 'dainty'...
    \ upsize the star, and place it behind the word somewhere, i think if you did
    that you may have something a bit more forceful, without losing your eclecticism.
    \r\n\r\n~optional~\r\nAnd depending how it colors up once you've done that, maybe
    expiriment with what the fill of the star looks like.  Just \r\n\r\n\r\nE\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-16 18:39:55'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "starlux,\r\n\r\nI've just read through this critique thread for the first
    time and I agree with the main themes of this discussion:\r\n\r\n- The original
    is best but would benefit from refinement\r\n- Define the problem further to give
    focus to the process\r\n\r\nHonestly, you're straddling a couple of definitions
    of 'retro' and you should probably pin those down more firmly before moving ahead.
    Don't design, research (I have to go back to the research all the time).\r\n\r\nAre
    you generally going for 50s retro with chrome lettering and pastel colors, 60s
    retro with a psychedelic twist? Perhaps late 70s/early 80s neon rock lettering
    with some glitz and shimmer? Your site seems to drift towards the latter, but
    the 'Starlux' pushes towards the 50s in my mind's eye. And if you want to blend
    them, what aspects are you blending and why? Again, immerse yourself in visual
    research. Get excited and inspired by the rich visual cultures you're referencing
    and don't worry about websites and logos for a little bit.\r\n\r\nBy the way,
    there's a film called <a href=\"http://www.apple.com/trailers/independent/lipstick_and_dynamite.html\">Lipstick
    & Dynamite</a> that hits the retro-but-contemporary nail squarely on the head
    with its titles. Check out <a href=\"http://www.lipstickanddynamite.com/\">the
    movie site</a>. While I think it gets a bit too hip-contemporary for its own good,
    it's not afraid of some <em>real</em> retro design, incorporating some of the
    kink, funk, and naivet\xE9 of the design from that era. I'm a fan of that <a href=\"http://www.ruthlessfilms.com/images/index_08.jpg\">script</a>
    they use. That's what separates a retro design from a thin retro-rehash.\r\n\r\nThis
    is all probably more helpful for your general design, since it looks like you're
    focusing on the original script, which I like. I'm eager to see where it all goes.
    Hope this helps."
  children:
  - author:
      name: starlux
    body: "How did I arrive at Starlux? That's a good question. I'm now forced to
      go back and recall my original intentions.\r\nI wanted a short word that had
      an impact. I was particularly interested in words that mean \"light\" or \"illuminate\",
      most of which are taken. I thought at the time a tagline that read Illuminating
      Design would work well (although something about it sounds familiar. I think
      there was an Illuminating Television tagline for something). And illuminate
      is a good word because it means to enlighten, clarify, reveal...all of which
      are important in design. \r\n\r\nSo...I arrived at lux...which was the favorite
      of all the words I came up with. Another design company in the bay area has
      it so I didn't take it on. But I did combine lux with other words. One day I
      wrote luxstar. Took a look at it and thought Starlux!\r\n\r\nAs you can see
      (I can too) now, the retro/futuristic vibe I was going for was more a stylistic
      choice. It doesn't really have any bearing on the meaning. I think starlux sounds
      flowly and it also sounds techno. Perhaps I was trying have the logo match the
      way it sounds in my head.\r\n\r\nSomething to think about..."
    created: '2005-08-16 19:59:51'
  created: '2005-08-16 19:04:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> It would be great if your logo contained some good design as opposed\r\nto
    a \u201Cflavor-of-the-month\u201D typeface.\r\n\r\nThe best would be if you took
    the shapes suggested & did them over by hand in pencil for an unabashedly unique
    logo. Go with the flow!\r\n\r\nWhen I hear Starlux I think Tomnita, Asteroids,
    The Jacksons, and pinball. I think Logan's Run & Battlestar Galactica.\r\n\r\nCheese
    basically. But good Cheese. The kind that satisfies.\r\n\r\nThis may not be what
    you are going for - but it's what I have been associating in my mind.\r\n\r\nI
    like your direction so far because it promises fun & suprises. And a good feeling.
    It feels positive. But you do need to keep going."
  created: '2005-08-17 07:39:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "maybe if you want to go less toally retro this kind of thing...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.defunker.com/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-17 08:10:37'
- author:
    name: starlux
  body: "Thanks, I will keep going...and try to incorporate some of my original intentions.
    You guys have been really great! It's hard when you work alone most of the time
    to get the distance you need to really see.\r\n\r\nI'm going to take a few days
    to work on this. Hopefully, I can post something again this weekend.\r\n\r\nnice
    site by the way...may have to get a few of those"
  created: '2005-08-17 15:50:29'
date: '2005-07-24 17:24:29'
files:
- filename: level_d_protos_a.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/level_d_protos_a.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Please critique logo

---
