---
author:
  name: cursusductus
  picture: 109846
body: "Hi, folks!\r\nI was wondering how typography is included in graphic design
  courses, specially at the best design schools. I teach digital typography and typographic
  design at Barcelona Univesity, Spain.\r\nFirst I would think about the top ten schools,
  in order to study their programs.\r\nHere in Europe I would say Reading and KABK,
  but some help would be apreciate.\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nDaniel"
comments:
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Based on my experience in design, it seems that there are few schools here
    in the states that really have a well integrated typography program. I just got
    my Master's degree in design a few months ago and mostly everything I've learned
    about digital typopgraphy has been self-taught. There's a market for type here,
    just not much emphasis on the actual production.
  created: '2005-07-25 18:02:33'
- author:
    name: cursusductus
    picture: 109846
  body: "could you please name these schools?\r\nThanks"
  created: '2005-07-25 18:47:47'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Hello Daniel,\r\n\r\nThe Type Directors Club posts a <a href=\"http://www.tdc.org/views/index.html#schools\"
    target=\"new\"><strong>list of schools</strong></a> offering course work in type
    and typography which you can use as a starting point.\r\n\r\nBy the way, is <strong>ADG</strong>FAD
    (Agrupaci&#243; FAD de Directors d'Art, Dissenyadors Gr&#224;fics i Illustradors)
    still active? I had visited with the group several times and had the pleasure
    of meeting many designers from Spain.\r\n\r\nAlso, do you know <a href=\"http://www.grupoerre-rousselot.com\"><strong>Ricardo
    Rousselot</strong></a>? He was one of the most gracious and gifted designer/typographer
    I met in Barcelona years ago.\r\n\r\n---------------------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, and have danced in the moonlight on La Rambla!"
  created: '2005-07-25 18:59:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I can put in a plug for my alma mater, Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh
    (CMU).  This makes particular sense if your name is Chris or similar--CMU was
    also attended by Typophile Chris Rugan and the renowned type designer Christian
    Schwartz.  :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-25 18:59:07'
- author:
    name: cursusductus
    picture: 109846
  body: ":))\r\nYes, Norbert, ADGFAD is still active, and Ricardo and I meet together
    last year in the first spanish typography congress. Thanks 4 the link."
  created: '2005-07-25 19:07:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Could somebody put me in touch with the people who\r\ndid the website for
    the Ligaduras 2004 conference?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-25 20:06:59'
- author:
    name: cursusductus
    picture: 109846
  body: "Hrant, try to write to: ligaduras@catalanadetipos.com\r\nthey will tell you
    (hope so)"
  created: '2005-07-25 20:56:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I tried that (back in August)... I wanted to get permission to show comparison
    images of their pages (which had some massively blurry Solex), splicing in my
    onscreen Mana fonts. Not a peep.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-25 21:38:38'
- author:
    name: garyw
    picture: 110508
  body: Take a look at www.artcenter.edu/
  created: '2005-07-25 22:44:14'
- author:
    name: giljimenez
    picture: 109460
  body: I too will rave about my alma matter, the University of Illinois at Chicago's
    School of Art and Design. While it may not seem like much, I learned an immense
    amount of typographic knowledge here, and they have an exchange with the Hochschule
    fur Gestaltung und Kunst in Luzern. Needless to say, we studied the International
    Style.
  created: '2005-07-25 23:08:15'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "There is a big difference between typography (the use of typefaces) \r\nand
    type design (the creation of typefaces).\r\n\r\nI did the typeface design course
    in Reading, and I can really recommend it.\r\n\r\nDecades ago the best school
    for typography was Basel,\r\nbecause they taught both attention to detail (microtypography)
    \r\nand a systematic approach to design. \r\nNow it seems that there are many
    universities and schools \r\nwhere a lot of good typographic designers/typographers
    are teaching,\r\nbut often they stay only for a certain time, and afterwards these
    schools\r\nfall back into mediocrity."
  created: '2005-07-26 00:01:50'
- author:
    name: ryan
  body: "Unfortunately there are some type designers who have no idea what typography
    is. Most of the successful type designers I have encountered ultimately realize
    that type must be used by an end user, thus typography. Although they can be separated,
    the relationship should be that of siamese twins. As we said at Typecon, type
    cannot exist in a vacuum. It relies on very specific contexts: publication, identity,
    video, etc....not merely a speciman for marketing to other designers. Type doesn't
    exist unless it meets the public.\r\n\r\nI recently finished the Type & Media
    course at the KABK. If strong cultural tradition (Dutch) coupled with the tremendous
    possiblities of backend technology are important to you then I would go to the
    Hague. I may be wrong, but I believe they have the largest number of teachers
    who are actually practicing type designers."
  created: '2005-07-26 05:51:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there are some type designers who have no idea what typography is.\r\n\r\nVery
    true. Part of it is that some type designers don't <strong>want</strong> to know,
    because they know they're not good at it (the two tasks require very different
    skills) or they just find it boring.* The good news is that as long as a type
    designer realizes the importance of the user (which is sometimes the reader more
    than the graphic designer, for example in the case of newspapers) he can still
    manage to make good fonts; in fact I think there's a certain benefit to being
    somewhat detached from the actual usage of fonts - you can look beyond current
    practice and maybe mark some real progress. So I think the main factor is respecting
    the user, as opposed to merely knowing the mechanics of current practice.\r\n\r\n*
    I mean, really, how could the arrangement of parts made by other people into something
    static ever be as rewarding as the making of a useful, self-contained little machine
    that is a font? I can't dig it.\r\n\r\nMy impressions of KABK versus Reading is
    that the former is better for quickly learning to make high-quality mainstream
    fonts of a certain -admittedly attractive- style, while the latter is better for
    theoretical groundwork and non-Latin design. As you might be able to tell, I personally
    lean more towards Reading - but that's just me. Maybe it's partly because I feel
    more Armenian than Dutch... Really, isn't some certain thing lost when let's say
    a South American is taught to make Dutch type? Especially when he's an impressionable
    student and he's -unavoidably, unwittingly- made to <strong>prefer</strong> Dutch
    type? I myself prefer to learn the underlying secrets, not how to elaborate a
    certain visual style.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-26 06:22:12'
- author:
    name: cursusductus
    picture: 109846
  body: "Hrant, Dutch Type?\r\ndo you mean calligraphic tendence?\r\n\r\nhave you
    seen Rumba, from Laura Meseguer?\r\nThat's not very dutch, I think...\r\n\r\nI
    think that KABK focus is on calligraphy as a system, not as a visual style. I
    don't know Reading, but it seems to be more on legibility and language.\r\nWhat
    about France, Germany, Italy and the rest of Europe?\r\nAny interesting school
    there?\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-26 08:39:36'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: "Hrant, you know nothing about KABK teachings. But giving strong opinions
    \r\nwith no knowledge about the matter is your main feature, isn't it? "
  created: '2005-07-26 10:53:36'
- author:
    name: cursusductus
    picture: 109846
  body: "Hey boys, let's not convert this in a discussion KABK vs Reading.\r\nLet's
    open the eyes to another interesting schools, please.\r\nIf you want, we can compare
    the different aproaches to type design.\r\nKABK represents the calligraphic one.
    At Barcelona University (Arts faculty) we use a similar point of view. Anybody
    else?\r\nPeople who studied at Reading, can you tell us something more?"
  created: '2005-07-26 11:49:00'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Germany has the HBK in Leipzig. That is very good.\r\n\r\nHere is a link
    to a similar article/discussion over at Typographi.com:\r\n<a href=\"http://typographi.com/000938.php\">http://typographi.com/000938.php</a>\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-26 15:56:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> have you seen Rumba, from Laura Meseguer?\r\n\r\nThat was actually on my
    mind when I wrote that!  :-/\r\nYou don't think it looks Dutch?\r\n\r\nJust to
    be clear, I don't think there's anything wrong with the Dutch look - in fact I
    think it's quite nice actually, as far as looks go. But then I would ask: What
    is wrong with Laura being more true to her own culture? (I'm assuming she's not
    Dutch, of course.)\r\n\r\nRamiro, I know what I see, which is certainly not everything,
    but still something. Just because we disagree as to where type design should be
    headed doesn't mean I don't understand.\r\n\r\nAlso, I think chirographic type
    can have a fair amount of variety; which explains GN's mockery of Zapf's work.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-26 16:42:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">how typography is included in graphic design courses,\r\n\r\nI've taught
    at the B.Des course at York University, Toronto.\r\nTypography is well integrated,
    from letterpress to type design.\r\nIn fact, it was a special requirement when
    the faculty moved into a new high-tech building in 2003, replacing studios with
    computer labs, that provision also be made for all the old metal type presses
    and their volatile chemicals. So students can get ink on their fingers.\r\nThe
    course I taught to 3rd-year students involved designing and making a digital typeface,
    creating a poster for it, and and a 15-second animation using it.\r\n\r\nDesign
    professor David Scadding is the man most responsible for York's typographic thoroughness.
    Students are impressed:\r\nhttp://www.ratemyprofessors.ca/ShowRatings.jsp?tid=101521\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-26 17:18:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "CMU, when I was there from '97\u2013'01, excelled at the mental and conceptual
    aspects of design, but didn't wow me in the technical and craft areas. It's not
    that they didn't make an effort, but it wasn't satisfactory in my mind. Everyone
    seemed to expect someone else to cover it.\r\n\r\nThat being said, because the
    CMU School of Design is part of the larger university, it's an incredible place
    to be, particularly for the self-directed. The people, facilities, faculty, and
    community are a very rich resource.\r\n\r\nIf you want to learn to design type
    specifically, you may not want to go there. But, as Chris L. said, Christian would
    know best about that."
  created: '2005-07-26 17:46:12'
- author:
    name: cursusductus
    picture: 109846
  body: "<That was actually on my mind when I wrote that! :-/\r\nYou don\u2019t think
    it looks Dutch?>\r\n:)\r\nI't's incredible how two persons can see the same thing
    so different...\r\nRumba doesn't look Dutch to me, may be a Dutch drunk with spanish
    wine, the stomach plenty of tapas and dancing untill the sun rises...\r\nLaura
    is spanish, like me, and I don't think she's betrying any culture... she told
    some where that dutch collegues had found this type very latin, so I'm not alone
    ;)"
  created: '2005-07-26 19:08:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't know why it matters what country you are from.  People should just
    design the type that comes out of them as an individual human being.  There is
    no need to pass a litmus test of national origin.  Let Laura design whatever and
    however she wishes. She is a grown women who needs no help to make up her mind.
    She has done good work on her own merits.  In this international world fed by
    internet communication all of these borders between countries blurr anyway.  Let
    the individual do as they see fit.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-26 19:25:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> People should just design the type that comes\r\n> out of them as an individual
    human being.\r\n\r\nAgreed. I am however concerned with the undue influence that
    a teacher can often have. Everybody is impressionable, and to me at least the
    best teachers are the ones who get you to ask intelligent questions, as opposed
    to merely teaching you how to make fonts in a certain style. Just like design
    itself, design education should be a balance between what a teacher thinks is
    good versus what the student <strong>might</strong> think is good. Self-doubt
    is critical in a good teacher; so is the ability to draw out what's \"different\"
    in each student. Also, since I think chirographic type is essentially flawed,
    anybody who teaches it as gospel can only produce the types of students I think
    we need <strong>in spite</strong> of him.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-26 19:40:57'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Academia often ruins creative endeavor. Take a look at jazz now that it's
    taught in universities. I'm really glad Miles Davis didn't learn his chops from
    a professor. When artists all know the same thing, culture dies a little.\r\nOn
    the other hand, I am glad my doctor has a degree\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-07-26 21:27:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think we have to give students credit for deciding what to accept while
    in school and what to reject later. It is fair to give something a good effort
    as a student so that they have experienced it before rejecting it. We all have
    had both dogmatic teachers and those open to dialogue.  I have learned from both
    but sometimes did not see the value (or the folly) until years later. Imagine
    having a professor who says path \"A\" is always a mistake and path \"B\" is always
    the choice to take. If we agree with him, life is simple (at the time). If we
    don't agree, we are in for a bumpy ride.  Later, we might have other life experiences
    which causes us to reverse positions.  What I am saying is that a bright student
    is not condemned to a life sentence of agreement or opposition to what they experienced
    in school.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-27 00:11:24'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Agreed.\r\nBut an auto-didact gets to learn what they want, when they want.
    Can it lead to an \"incomplete\" education? Yes, but it can also lead to an original
    body of knowledge.\r\nFor me this is most evident in music, especially jazz. The
    forward strides that were made historically in jazz pretty much stopped as soon
    as academia started teaching people how to play it correctly.\r\nI also believe
    fine art has suffered at the theoretical hands of higher learning.\r\nLike all
    things, academia is a double edged sword\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-07-27 00:42:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a bright student is not condemned to ...\r\n\r\nOK, but the less bright
    are people too.\r\n\r\nPaul: Right on, all around.\r\nListen to us Angelenos,
    guys.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 02:50:39'
- author:
    name: cursusductus
    picture: 109846
  body: "<Also, since I think chirographic type is essentially flawed, \r\n\r\nCan
    you explain that, please? (arguments are welcome)"
  created: '2005-07-27 08:31:06'
- author:
    name: cursusductus
    picture: 109846
  body: "sorry, something waas wrong...\r\n\r\n>Also, since I think chirographic type
    is essentially flawed\r\n\r\nCan you explain that, Hrant? (arguments are welcome)"
  created: '2005-07-27 08:34:33'
- author:
    name: jades
  body: "school of life.\r\n\r\nyou can't teach talent\r\n\r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2005-07-27 09:30:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"OK, but the less bright are people too.\"\r\n\r\nThe same applies as for
    bright students.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-27 12:52:07'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "There's really a fine line. There seemed to be a few types of students to
    me. One is a student who accepts whatever he/she is told because they feel that
    the professor has more knowledge in the subject and should be always listened
    to. Another student questions what the professor says and asks why and challenges
    both the professor's viewpoint and his/her own. I fell in the later category.
    While I feel I was respectful in my questioning of ideas (wisdom should never
    be underestimated) road number two often gets you less respect. \r\n\r\nIn the
    later example I feel the student learns less because they question nothing, they
    learn less. Anyone can regurgitate an idea, but it takes thought and questioning
    to produce something original. At my recent alma mater The Pratt Institute (Manhattan)
    I felt that the students that mirrored the \"cool\" design in annuals and made
    the slickest looking projects got the most recognition. With a few exceptions,
    concept seemed merely an afterthought. \r\n\r\nSometimes methods become archaic
    and are not practical by today's standards. This is something that I often combated.
    Theory and history are important elements to learn, but sometimes new developments
    can make old practices obsolete...like using new technology for example. Many
    of my professors from the golden age of design rejected such modern conveniences
    as the computer and saw it is the death of the field that many were once prominent
    in. Whenever a human being reaches a point where they feel they have nothing left
    to learn, they become obsolete. "
  created: '2005-07-27 16:41:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Daniel, I've already rambled on too much about that, including (in fact most
    of all) on Typophile... :-/ Does anybody here with a younger memory have an archive
    link handy? If not, I'll try to provide a synopsis (so as not to derail this thread).\r\n\r\n>
    Whenever a human being reaches a point where they feel\r\n> they have nothing
    left to learn, they become obsolete.\r\n\r\nWell said.\r\nThe best teacher is
    an eternal student.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 20:36:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Class size is very important.\r\nIf there is a low enough student to teacher
    ratio, that allows the teacher to spend some time with each student and help them
    solve design problems their own way."
  created: '2005-07-27 21:45:40'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "Sorry, I wasn\u2019t online yesterday, so I have to catch up\u2026\r\nSome
    comments:\r\n\r\n>Hrant:\r\n>I mean, really, how could the arrangement of parts
    made by other people into something static ever be as rewarding as the making
    of a useful, self-contained little machine that is a font?\r\n\r\nIf you design
    a book and you try to make all the different levels of information - of linear
    reading and non-linear reading, of cross-references, footnotes, of captions, etc.
    - really working, then you also design a useful machine. The same applies for
    a signage system and for any serious (typographic) design job that tries to be
    more than just superficial decoration.\r\n\r\n>Cursusductus:\r\n>Let\u2019s open
    the eyes to another interesting schools, please. \r\nThere is also a type design
    course at the Atelier Nationale de Recherche Typographique in Nancy, but I hardly
    know more than the name\u2026 \r\n\r\n>People who studied at Reading, can you
    tell us something more?\r\nIn Reading, calligraphy is important to understand
    the structure of the letter, but probably it is less important when it comes to
    actually design of the letters. This is my perception of having studied there,
    but other Reading students may have come to different conclusions. Generally people
    are encouraged to design also non-latin typefaces. Writing papers (essay, dissertation)
    is also part of the assignment. \r\n\r\n>Paul Cutler \r\n>Academia often ruins
    creative endeavor.\r\n\r\nSorry, I disagree. Of course, learning about the history
    of letterforms does not help you immediately to design a better \u2018d\u2019
    or \u2018s\u2019. The ability to form well shaped letters is not so much a matter
    of controlling the movements of your hand (or your mouse?) as it is a matter of
    learning how to see, how to look at letters. So the most important thing is to
    train your eye, and this is best done by trying - and probably failing (failure
    is an important part of the learning process, probably more important than the
    all too easily achieved success) - to design letter forms, not by reading about
    them. But type design is also embedded in a broader cultural context, and this
    is where theory becomes important again. For me, design is nothing but the visual
    representation of a series of (hopefully well-informed) decisions about about
    how to structure and organize content. I do not think that ignorance of theory
    helps anyone to become a better designer.\r\n\r\n>tbiddy \r\n>sometimes new developments
    can make old practices obsolete\u2026\r\nFor this reason, I think design schools
    must  not rely too much on teaching computer programs, but they should teach design
    skills. Computer programs come and go. Good designer know what they want the computer
    program to do in order get a specific result, instead of producing easily predictable
    work by just using pre-defined program features.\r\nPeople who are just applying
    the last photoshop-filter are not much more than decorators. The same applies
    by the way also to typographers who always use the trendiest type (sometimes the
    might have even enough taste to choose a really good typeface), but who do not
    take the pains to analyze the actual requirement of a specific job\u2026 This
    work is actually bound to be an \u2018arrangement of parts made by other people
    into something static.\u2019"
  created: '2005-07-28 01:37:15'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Wolfgang -\r\nYou imply that theory must be learned from a professor. Picasso,
    Miles Davis and many others prove this is incorrect.\r\nI fully agree with your
    last point. For me the technology is just a tool. Too bad I have to learn it over
    and over again. The musician learns how to play and never has to relearn his instrument
    as long as he stays in touch with it. The trumpet doesn't change.\r\nYou see I
    have many theories, even though I didn't like school\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2005-07-28 21:45:05'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: " \u2013 Picasso, Miles Davis and many others prove this is incorrect.\r\n<strong>What
    does it prove? That the super-duper-talented will make it anyway? So? The best
    graphic designers </strong>today<strong> have good education, simple as that.\r\nAlthough
    graphic design may look easy, it is in fact a real </strong>Profession<strong>,
    just like being a </strong>Doctor<strong>. \r\nNow, would You seek medical advice
    from someone who got his education from the University of the Internet?  \r\n
    \r\nIf Picasso was a young aspiring designer today, I wouldn't be surprised if
    he'd be interested in doing his Masters at the RCA in London. \r\n</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2005-07-28 23:22:15'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: ">You imply that theory must be learned from a professor\r\nAlso reading books
    might help   ;)\r\n\r\nI do not think that theoretical understanding can only
    be obtained by formal education. The most important prerequisite is the curiosity
    of the student. It is more important to ask intelligent questions than to find
    too fast and ready made answers. Academic or formal (theoretical) education might
    only help you to formulate your questions more stringent. Probably your curiosity
    will be more focussed and therefore more 'fertile'. And if you are lucky, the
    place where you study is providing an atmospere which encourages curiosity. But
    that's about it. If you are not curious enough, if you think you already know
    it all, then the best formal education won't help you. \r\n\r\nThere is no guarantee
    that theoretical understanding will have any direct positive influence on the
    (aesthetic) quality of your design. As far as the formal or aestetic side of design
    is concerned, the arbiter is the eye, and the eye needs to get educated by training,
    by doing. Theoretical explanations do not help much at this point. But design
    is embedded in a wider field (there is such a thing as society) and has also functional
    aspects. To get this aspect of design right, you can not only rely on your eye.
    You have to be able to ask the right questions and come along with conclusions.\r\n\r\nThe
    third important part (apart from the training of the eye and of the theoretical
    understanding) in design education is in my view to teach the students design
    methods. This should help students to develop ideas further and to not just to
    add one potential solution to another. It is important that the student learns
    how to develop ideas ans turn a potential design solution to an actual solution.
    For this reason I mentioned Basle as an extraordinary example of the teaching
    of design methods, especially for typographic design. Without the teaching of
    structure, the danger of design being not more than superficial decoration is
    always at hand. But on the other hand, the teaching of methods is also a quite
    tricky point, because there is always the danger that after a while people tend
    to get lazy and the methods might turn into dogmas or into all to easy recipies.
    A school might produce ony clones of a specific style.\r\n\r\nBy the way, some
    of the best designers I know had no formal qualification at all. \r\n\r\nI just
    think that the notion that all talent is so by nature, birth or destiny and that
    thinking only drives away your muses is simply bullshit. It just cuts you from
    the opportunity to learn and is an excuse for intellectual lazyness.\r\n\r\nYou
    can be pretty sure that Miles Davis was quite curious and eager to learn. \r\n\r\nYes,
    the trumpet is always the same, but there is more than one way to how play it."
  created: '2005-07-29 01:34:44'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: And of course, all intellectual eloquence does not help to save a poor design
    work. Since it is reproduced it has to be strong enough to stand on its own, without
    any explanations...
  created: '2005-07-29 01:46:36'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Wolfgang, I completely agree with everything you said. One of my favorite
    professors died suddenly and he was a big Charlie Parker fan. To use another jazz
    comparison, shortly before he died he mentioned this quote by Charlie Parker:
    \r\n\r\n\"First you master your instrument. Then you master the music. Then you
    forget about all the shit you just learned and just play.\"\r\n\r\nI think the
    same rules apply here."
  created: '2005-07-29 03:19:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Picasso, Miles Davis and many others prove this is incorrect.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to the Wikipaedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Miles_Davis , Miles Davis first
    had formal trumpet lessons, and then a series of mentors, including Clark Terry
    and Charlie Parker. \r\n\r\nPicasso's father was a drawing teacher and was a strict
    master to him. The story I read is that the father had his son draw a pigeon over
    and over again, each time pointing out its failings, and how to improve the drawing.
    Then one day the son came to him with a drawing of the Pigeon that stunned him.
    The father quitely packed up his drawing kit, presented it to young Pablo, and
    never drew again. \r\n\r\nBoth Miles Davis and Picasso were genius prodigies,
    but they also had plenty of instruction from professionals. \r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-07-29 04:01:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The promised tangent:\r\n\r\nDaniel, the main reason chirography is flawed
    for text face design is that it creates the black bodies through \"movements\"
    (GN's \"moving front\", with the elaborations of translation, rotation and pressure),
    and this has nothing to do with the act of reading (the main point of typography,
    no?) which deals with black-white relationships. Basically, making type by thinking
    primarily about the border between the black and white is the ideal, and chirography
    confuses this.\r\n\r\nLike I said, I've already written a lot about this on Typophile,
    and don't want to clutter this thread. Which doesn't mean I don't want to discuss
    it further - quite the contrary - just not here. But I didn't want to seem to
    spurn you, hence the above elaboration.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 04:14:00'
- author:
    name: cursusductus
    picture: 109846
  body: ">Which doesn\u2019t mean I don\u2019t want to discuss it further - quite
    the contrary - just not here. But I didn\u2019t want to seem to spurn you, hence
    the above elaboration.\r\n\r\nI agree, Hrant, this is not the place to discuss
    about chirography, but you post a lot and it's difficult to follow you ;)\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 13:13:15'
date: '2005-07-25 17:29:49'
node_type: forum
title: Best design schools around the world

---
