---
author:
  name: TBiddy
  picture: 110666
body: I'm sure everybody's got 'em...so let's hear about your favorite TypeCon 2005
  moments!
comments:
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: how 'bout you go first. ;^D
  created: '2005-07-25 21:21:43'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: how about photos?
  created: '2005-07-25 21:32:57'
- author:
    name: Jason Alejandro
    picture: 110644
  body: Ed Rondthaler blowing out the <i>single</i> candle on his birthday cake!
  created: '2005-07-25 21:36:48'
- author:
    name: emel
    picture: 109898
  body: I'll have some of my photos up tonight or tomorrow. I just realized, though,
    that my 256 sd card is corrupt. So... I will have less photos than I actually
    shot :(
  created: '2005-07-25 21:48:54'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "One of my favorite moments was seeing [[Gary Munch|Gary Munch's]] presentation
    on Cyrillic alphabet... \"Ya, arr!\"\r\n\r\nAnother was realizing what a dancing
    machine [[Yves Peters]] is... His new name is Yves \"Gumby\" Peters."
  created: '2005-07-25 23:08:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would like to post a VERY BIG THANK YOU to everyone involved in putting
    TypeCon together this year.  I don't know who everyone was so I can't name all
    the names.  I know Tamye, Tiffany, Jared, Joe, Yves, and Zara were part of gang
    but there were many other smiling helpful faces putting in tons of volunteer hours
    to make it a big success. \r\nTo all of you, THANK YOU it was a wonderful experience.
    \r\n\r\n(The only chilly reception was the temperature in the auditorium :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-25 23:34:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Please don't forget to post your pics to the <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/groups/typecon/\">TypeCon
    Flickr</a> ... \r\n\r\nI'm going to try and write a readable post about TypeCon
    soon. But the conference was amazing on many levels. It was, yet again, an intense
    week -- give or take a day -- of type, typography and friends. "
  created: '2005-07-26 03:00:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "One moment would be tough to highlight, so many good ones.\r\n\r\nThe worst
    thing about TypeCon is its effect as a serendipity engine: each year I go I end
    up with enough new ideas that would take many years to realize. So many embryos
    to freeze."
  created: '2005-07-26 14:17:52'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Watching Yves dance was truly a sight to behold. BTW, Yves you're still supposed
    to show me some moves. A highlight for me was also watching Alessio Leonardi's
    presentation...very, very funny. \r\n\r\nJason, I didn't get to meet you at TypeCon.
    :("
  created: '2005-07-26 16:00:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There were lots of great moments but, for me, playing drop-the-stuffed-toy
    and pick-up-the-stuffed-toy with Thomas's utterly charming baby girl heads the
    list.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-26 17:53:49'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Favorite quote - \"Over 50% of people in Iceland consult the elves when building
    a house\" David Berlow during his tribute to Matthew Carter. \r\n\r\nFave moment
    - being on stage when Matthew received the SoTA award. \r\n\r\nI &hearts; MC Si "
  created: '2005-07-26 20:23:49'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: "Well I have been trying to think of one moment, but had come to the conclusion
    that it is completely impossible. So many great memories. I can't think of a more
    inspiring, insane, influential, intense, karaokeing, dancing, insominia inducing,
    and at many moments dumbfounding time. Perhaps a list of moments to come.\r\n\r\nShu"
  created: '2005-07-26 20:52:58'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Low point - having to take a cab to JFK without Shu - Sorry, I waited til
    5.15 :-( hope you caught your flight.\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2005-07-26 21:22:33'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "Ed Rondthaler was amazing to watch. I really like his alphabet song and he
    impressed the heck out of me with his memory \u2013 never missed a beat when it
    came to remembering a name or date. Alessio Leonardi gave a very entertaining
    talk, and sweating with everyone at Roger Black's lovely sauna was also quite
    memorable. The duck at Les Halles was brilliant and juicy. There are so many wonderful
    experiences that I could write a book, but overall I was very inspired by the
    people I met and everything that I learned from them.\r\n\r\nPhotos to come soon
    on <a href=\"http://flickr.com/photos/zara\">my Flickr page</a>\u2013 don't forget
    about the <a href=\"http://flickr.com/groups/typecon/pool/\">TypeCon Flickr pool</a>!"
  created: '2005-07-26 21:48:11'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: Low point - waking up late and making Si wait for me for no reason. I did
    make my flight, no problems there, but I sure felt bad.
  created: '2005-07-26 21:53:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "No worries. Glad you made it home.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2005-07-26 22:00:21'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Finally convincing Dave Farey to expand his <a href="http://www.fontshop.com/showfont.cfm?fid=C.103160.0.0&searchby=searchresults">Cachet</a>
    family. (Sometimes it takes a few nudges from some cogent <a href="http://www.normanhathaway.co.uk">friends</a>.)
  created: '2005-07-26 22:51:47'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: 'favorite moment: taking my pants off (in the elevator, in the ballroom, in
    my room, in other folks'' rooms), ass-biting, "whatever."'
  created: '2005-07-26 22:56:16'
- author:
    name: typotect
    picture: 110390
  body: "Favorite moments:\r\nWatching friends eat \"cow dick\" fear factor style.\r\nEnjoying
    the Ed, Ed & Ken talk.\r\nMeeting so many wonderful new friends.\r\n\r\nI've posted
    my favorite photos to the <a href=\"http://flickr.com/groups/typecon/\">Typecon
    Flickr Pool</a> as well.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n> !&*[^${-#<%)/~=@+(\\?;>\"}-\r\n\r\nwww.typotect.com\r\nWhereSquaresGoForDimension"
  created: '2005-07-26 23:21:22'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Low point: realizing at 2am that I've got to wake at 4am for a 6am flight.
    Still recovering from that one.\r\n\r\nHigh point: Seeing [[Donald Beekman]] on
    the turntables. That guy can spin!\r\n\r\nFunniest point: [[Christoph Winkler]]
    (technical guru at [[Linotype]]) telling us to stop playing records backwards
    and to just play some classic rock! Christoph, no hard feelings, but you've got
    to be more specific. I assumed that since you're German you'd appreciate some
    techno. Cheers mate.\r\n\r\nEpiphany: Speculating with [[Simon Daniels|Si]] about
    why [[Apple]] doesn't make it to these conferences. If they're really a design
    oriented company, where are they in the type world? (They're only at [[ATypI]]
    it seems).\r\n\r\nRealization: Contrasting how nice [[Paula Scher]] is in person
    to... someone else.\r\n\r\nRealization: Re-remembering how much I love [[Cyrillic]].\r\n\r\nRealization:
    San Francisco weather really is the best weather in the whole friggin' world."
  created: '2005-07-27 00:18:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: My images are incredibly random, but I've just added some of them to the <a
    href="http://www.flickr.com/groups/typecon/">TypeCon Flickr Group</a>.
  created: '2005-07-27 01:04:54'
- author:
    name: feliciano
  body: "Hi all,\r\nit was great to bet at the TypeCon and meet so many of you in
    person. I've got an hard time to get used to NY \u2014 and now it seems like Lisbon
    is a ghost city! Nobody here!\r\nI'm still jetleging! so, no serious comments.
    A big Thank you! and a big Hello!\r\nHave Fun!\r\nM Feliciano"
  created: '2005-07-27 07:50:46'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: 'Seeing Ed Rondthaler so sharp at age 100 was amazing. So much wisdom, I can''t
    imagine all the things he''s seen in his lifetime. Getting my type critiqued by
    Matthew Carter, John Downer, Akira Kobiyashi, and Erik Spiekermann was a dream
    come true. I met a lot of neat people and in contrast to the fields I was previously
    involved in (entertainment and the arts) everyone I met seemed very down to earth. '
  created: '2005-07-27 15:46:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Terry, could you please describe your type crit experience more deeply?\r\nNot
    necessarily in this thread.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 20:30:23'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Shu! I didn't realise up till now you were the hairy eleven! Send me yo'
    e-mail address, dude! :)\r\n\r\nThe highlight of the conference for me was finally
    meeting so many people I already knew, plus getting to know some of them better
    (this includes Shu, beautiful guy and the unsung hero of this conference)."
  created: '2005-07-27 22:02:35'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: "You know the biggest clue that I am the hairy Eleven is that is says shu
    right above that. It is tricky though. That's one of those logos I designed for
    my firm that never got used so I figured I should use it in some way. My boss
    assured me that it is going to reappear in some way. We can only hope. Might change
    that logo soon though, kinda bored with it.\r\n\r\nYves! You are definitely on
    my list of highlights. Although I can't really say I am too unsung. Running the
    risk of being oversung, perhaps. Will send my address once you come back online.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 23:24:14'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: UNSUNG!
  created: '2005-07-28 00:32:06'
- author:
    name: Jason Alejandro
    picture: 110644
  body: 'Mario, your presentation was great and I was drooling over the faces. It
    was nice to hear about a topic that is not always obvious to typophiles. '
  created: '2005-07-28 00:49:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Epiphany: Speculating with Si about why Apple doesn\u2019t make it to
    these conferences. If they\u2019re really a design oriented company, where are
    they in the type world? (They\u2019re only at ATypI it seems)</em>\r\n\r\nActually,
    it has been a while since we've seen Apple at ATypI. Peter Lofting was in Rome
    in 2002, but that was the last time Apple were represented. Frankly, I'd be happy
    to see them only attending TypeCon if it were an indication that they were paying
    any serious attention to type. :("
  created: '2005-07-28 03:10:26'
- author:
    name: dyana
    picture: 110583
  body: I think "Hairy Eleven" should be Shu's new(est) nickname.
  created: '2005-07-28 04:28:15'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "Apple's Peter Lofting attended TypeCon2003 in Minneapolis, and I *believe*
    I chatted with him briefly at TC04 in SF last summer (I seem to recall he was
    traveling and could only make it for one day or something like that). Apple kindly
    loaned us Macs for the conference last year, which was a huge help for registration,
    the store, and attendee \"surf stations.\"\r\n\r\nThere was another Apple rep
    or two registered last year, but I'm sure that was due to Apple's proximity to
    the conference venue. No Apple folk were in attendance in NYC.\r\n\r\nI think
    our little type events are a tiny blip on a radar filled with larger events better
    targeted to Apple's marketing/recruitment/etc. strategies... but we can always
    hope for more participation in the future."
  created: '2005-07-28 04:50:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This conference was a wonderful experience for me. Various highlights:\r\n\r\n1.
    Discussing my efforts in type design with some experienced type designers. Like
    Terry, I was overjoyed that you can actually get the best in the world to discuss
    your work, and found it tremendously stimulating and thought-provoking.  \r\n\r\n2.
    The chance to meet Typophiles in the flesh and blood. Typophile is great, but
    meeting in person way better. \r\n\r\n3. Presentations: Paula Sher's exciting
    typography. Mario Feliciano's wonderful revivals of Spanish types. Yves Peters
    courageous criticism of corporate type pirates--and his amazing dancing.\r\n\r\n4.
    The 'Subway Blues' workshop, which I moderated. It was great that Tamye was willing
    to put it on the program and find space to talk about NYC transport signage. And
    it was terrific to have such a stellar panel all agree to be on the round table:
    Neysa Pranger of Straphangers.org, Eric Spiekermann, James Montalbano, Terry Biddle,
    and John Berry. All had really interesting and different points to make. I will
    post more to the thread on it. \r\n\r\n5. I was sad that in arranging the round
    table and getting critiques I missed: Nick Shinn's workshop on Open type, John
    Downer on 'Paperback' and the Graffiti presentation. \r\n\r\nOk, Ok I know, too
    many superlatives. But this was in fact hands down the best experience for me
    at a conference, ever! \r\n  "
  created: '2005-07-28 17:33:42'
- author:
    name: emel
    picture: 109898
  body: "I had a great time, this was my first typecon. I learned alot listening to
    the speakers and doing a few of the workshops. Great to meet so many from the
    forum. Learned a lot about the industry, thanks to everyone I talked to.\r\n\r\nOn
    a side note, the Roosevelt's bar and restaurant prices were (are) awful!"
  created: '2005-07-28 17:52:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Emel, it wouldn''t be fair to pick on one place in particular. Pricing all
    over NYC is quite high. '
  created: '2005-07-28 18:01:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hotels are notoriously expensive in their food service in big cities.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-28 18:07:41'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "I paid 3.50 for a cup of coffee in the hotel one morning. Regular coffee.
    No frill coffee. I almost fainted.\r\n\r\nThat was my lowest point of the conference."
  created: '2005-07-28 18:14:11'
- author:
    name: emel
    picture: 109898
  body: lol I understand food in NY can be expensive, but the cafes and delis around
    the hotel were much much cheaper. Roosevelts pricing was bandit-like.
  created: '2005-07-28 18:41:44'
- author:
    name: emel
    picture: 109898
  body: It's a beautiful hotel though to be sure - in fact next time I'm in NY im
    going to stay there.
  created: '2005-07-28 18:45:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I remember the (hors-conference) food at ATypI-99 being quite sad. The hotel
    had a small over-priced bakery with stale goods. That was it. It was called \"Au
    Baun Pain\", but Simon dubbed it \"Au Big Pain\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-28 19:38:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201CAu Baun Pain\u201D is a chain of feaux French bakeries/sandwich shoppes
    accross the East.  If it is a chain, it is a pain :-)\r\n\r\nSo did you buy one
    of those fur coats Hrant?  :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-28 20:04:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "From Novosibirsk? No, but I have a great photo of a fur shop there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-28 20:30:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "some high points:\r\n\r\nsitting in the \"hot seat\" for a type critique\r\nseeing
    that beautiful onestorey/twostorey \"a\" along with some other stunning blackletter\r\nbeing
    introduced to a gay version of clarendon\r\nand above all... i'd hafta agree that
    meeting friends from online was the most amazing thing"
  created: '2005-07-28 20:48:32'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Guys, guys, hotel bars and restaurants are almost always subpar and overpriced.
    That is the rule, not the exception. Best to judge the hotel by its location and
    price, especially when there are so many eateries in a close vicinity.
  created: '2005-07-28 23:36:32'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "True Stephen. I was very happy with the Roosevelt and especially glad we
    stayed in the 'official' conference hotel. (And Au bon Pain is a chain store in
    every mall in America... you were duped!)\r\n\r\nThe wireless at Parsons was a
    disappointment though - but I'm spoiled by [[FlashForward]]."
  created: '2005-07-29 01:28:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Duped? You mean like into needing food to live?\r\nThere really was nothing
    else to eat there.  :-(\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 03:48:21'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "For those of you who wish for a tricky way to add your photos to the <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/groups/typecon/\">TypeCon
    Flickr Group</a> and wish to do it more quickly than one at a time:\r\n\r\n(1)
    Make sure you've joined the group\r\n(2) Go into the <strong>Organizer</strong>\r\n(3)
    Click on the <strong>Your Groups</strong> tab\r\n(4) Select <strong>TypeCon</strong>\r\n(4)
    One at a time, patience is key, hold the <strong>a key</strong> down and click
    on the photos you wish to add.\r\n\r\nFlickr is down at the moment, but I'll double
    check this in a while. <em>These instructions are courtesy of Quasistoic, Flickr
    Maestro and Zen Master.</em>"
  created: '2005-07-29 16:37:05'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I just uploaded 13 photos (that maxed out my free 20mb for July; since August
    1 is just on MOnday, maybe I can get some more photos up then?). This was the
    first time I had used Flickr. Is the \"add one at a time\" method described above
    the only way to get photos onto a group like this?\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-29 17:24:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Once you've joined the group you can use the mass share with the group described
    above or you can do it even more slowly:\r\n\r\n(1) Viewing the image\r\n(2) Above
    the image, in the icons, second icon over, <strong>Share with Group</strong> "
  created: '2005-07-29 17:35:12'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: If you use iPhoto, the <a href="http://www.speirs.org/flickrexport/">Flickr
    Export plugin</a> is handy.
  created: '2005-07-29 18:02:20'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I just upgraded to Tiger today (from 10.2.8\u2026 ugh!), and I am very pleased,
    although performance speed on my Powerbook is way down. I used the Flickr export
    plug-in. I just wish it would have add the photos to groups, too.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-29 19:11:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Here, Here! I agree with you, Dan. I love that little export plugin, but
    wish it did allow for automatic inclusion under groups. '
  created: '2005-07-29 19:51:37'
- author:
    name: emel
    picture: 109898
  body: "Also available is the flickr <a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/tools/\">\"Uploadr\"</a>
    It's a small install \r\nIt lets you upload multiple photos at a time and you
    just drag and drop them into it.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 20:27:35'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: I've added a bunch of my photos to the <a href="http://www.flickr.com/groups/typecon/">TypeCon
    group</a> already, but I also have quite a few (albeit slightly less TypeCon specific)
    shots from my trip to New York in <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/splorp/sets/624032/">this
    Flickr set</a>. They're mostly buildings and signs and streets and such. I guess
    I was too shy to take pictures of the fine people I met during the conflagration.
    Next year, ok?
  created: '2005-07-30 05:05:16'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Flickr export plugin!? Rock on.
  created: '2005-07-30 11:19:37'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: <a href="http://www.flickr.com/people/fraserspeirs/">Fraser Speirs</a>, the
    developer of the Flickr plugin, is very open to suggestions and bug reports. It's
    a fantastic free add-on to iPhoto. Rock on, indeed.
  created: '2005-07-30 17:39:41'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I think its time to change the name of this topic to Flickr Fanatiks.
  created: '2005-07-30 19:29:46'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "James, please come and join us! No need to be jealous of our picture sharing.
    What's your email and I'll invite you.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI think the funniest moment,
    for me -- well one of the funnier moments -- was when Harry Parker compared my
    skin to his and told me the freckles would never meet up and to stop trying."
  created: '2005-08-02 17:50:17'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: Who is this "Harry Parker" character?
  created: '2005-08-02 19:12:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ack! Harry Parker is Mike Parker's son. Man, I can't seem to get the names
    straight. Of course, I meant Mike Parker! Did I say that on Flickr too? Oh dear.
  created: '2005-08-02 19:17:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You see, Matthew Carter's father's name is Harry Carter. Mike Parker's son's
    name is Harry Parker ... so I will probably continue to get there names all mixed
    up. So sorry. :^!
  created: '2005-08-02 19:20:15'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: Speaking of naming typographic offspring... I discovered during the talk by
    [[Daniel Pelavin]] that his daughter's names are Anna (which I knew from his typeface)
    and Molly - the same names as my two daughters. You could have knocked me over
    with a sheet of dry transfer lettering.
  created: '2005-08-03 05:35:11'
- author:
    name: aoetigirl
  body: "Mr. Parker, er, I mean Miss Tiff...\r\nYou seem to be a bit confused with
    all the names.  I actually thought you were quoting Sir Parker or making some
    bizarro typographic reference to Harry Potter.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-03 07:39:58'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "I thought the conference was awesome in so many ways. I really enjoyed putting
    warm human faces to the icons pictured here on typophile and it was great to meet
    more typophiles and share information. I learned so much! \r\n\r\nI was completely
    inspired by Paula Scher's presentation and wandered around the city afterwards
    finding a lot of her work and photographing it; I loved Jakob Trollback's moving
    type presentation: totally awesome work; I thought Gerard Huerta's working sketches
    were fantastic and now I can say I KNOW who designed the ACDC logo! The presentation
    by Alexander Isley was really great, too - so much great design and use of typography
    in it. My favourite presentation overall was the typographic tattoos - something
    I never really gave much thought to. \r\n\r\nMeeting Matthew Carter was the icing
    on the cake for me. And I thought Carlos Mare 139 Rodriguez summed up the conference,
    in his last slide, which read: \r\n\"Embrace Competitiveness\r\nChallenge your
    Mentors\r\nContribute Originality\r\nExpand the Dialogue\r\nHonour your Mentors\"\r\n\r\nThanks
    to everyone for such a great time."
  created: '2005-08-03 21:26:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Andi,\r\n\r\nWere you hiding?  I never saw you there.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-03 22:28:26'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Andi was there and we did have a chance to chat. Great that you wrote that
    down, Andi, I meant to myself. Thanks for posting that.
  created: '2005-08-03 22:31:29'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "I was there Chris, but I was a bit shy. \r\n\r\nI did manage to introduce
    myself to Terry, Nick Shinn, William, Tiffany, Dan, Tamye and a few others. I
    had a bit of a weird experience with someone when I tried to introduce myself
    to them at the start of the conference and that put me off being too forward and
    friendly. : (  \r\n\r\nI did manage to corner Grant and give him a hard time about
    the lack of Veer shwag at the conference, though and I drowned my sorrows in the
    many type tshirts I did buy. (Yes, I know Grant, I know...)\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-03 23:08:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Did you get a hoody?\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-03 23:10:59'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Lots of cool tshirts - alas, no hoodies though...
  created: '2005-08-03 23:13:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I got lots of shirts too.  My wife thought I was nuts but of course she is
    right.\r\n\r\nSorry about your bummer encounter of the \"wierd experience\" type.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-03 23:17:08'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Yeah, well, the nice people at the conference (most everyone) made up for
    the bad experience tenfold and I plan to try to be more forward at next year's
    conference!\r\n\r\nAndi"
  created: '2005-08-03 23:46:54'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Yes, Andi, don't let that keep you from joining us on our little excursions.
    I'm still sour about that and wish it hadn't of happened.
  created: '2005-08-03 23:49:42'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Bwaaa... no worries - it's all cool, \r\nThanks though Tiff!"
  created: '2005-08-04 00:04:34'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: 'what happened? '
  created: '2005-08-04 00:08:12'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Would rather not get into details but since you asked:\r\n\r\nI introduced
    myself to someone and asked if they were at the conference too (I recognized their
    photo from the typophile site) and they answered with a \"No\". I felt a bit embarassed,
    apologized and left them. \r\n\r\nI then saw them join up with other typophiles.
    And they ignored me all conference long. I was quite suprised! I mean, I checked
    for bad breath and all but couldn't quite figure out what happenned.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    it made me a bit more cautious after that and I met a lot of very very cool people
    with a lot more class afterwards, who admitted they WERE at the conference.\r\n\r\nLife.
    You gotta love it!"
  created: '2005-08-04 00:13:08'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "wow. disgusting behavior.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-04 00:25:04'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: and man, is Matthew Carter ever tall!
  created: '2005-08-04 00:32:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think of Matthew Carter as being the James Bond of the type design community.
    And by James Bond, I mean Sean Connery, not Roger Moore or Timothy Dalton,  but
    perhaps Pierce Brosnan but only in the Tomorrow Never Dies.
  created: '2005-08-04 00:37:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "As they said in the presentation to Mr. Carter: \"I didn't think you would
    look like THAT.\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-04 00:40:35'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Andi, sorry someone was rude to you! That is strictly verboten at TypeCon...
    we'll have to do some serious ass-kickin' if it happens again.
  created: '2005-08-04 02:43:52'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: no worries, no worries - did you like the prezzie Tamye?
  created: '2005-08-04 03:11:01'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Andi, I did like it! Thank you so much... very sweet (in all ways). Shared
    with my son Jonathan...
  created: '2005-08-04 03:39:26'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Ah great!\r\n\r\nI was just on the typeradio site: http://www.typeradio.org/loudblog/index.php?cat=Interviews
    and got to listen to interviews and experience the conference all over again.
    I just love their logo too!"
  created: '2005-08-04 04:10:12'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Andi said:\r\n\r\n<em>\"I did manage to corner Grant and give him a hard
    time</em>\r\n<em>about the lack of Veer shwag at the conference...\"</em>\r\n\r\nI
    am truly sorry about that. It ended up being a mess with the manpower and logistics
    this year. You weren't the only attendee that filled our collective ear. I promise
    (really promise) that we'll load up a 'tee-party' full of shwag for Boston. Even
    if I have to truck the darn stuff there myself."
  created: '2005-08-04 04:49:11'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: you're a good man, Grant Hutchinson.
  created: '2005-08-04 05:43:24'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'Update to TypeCon misunderstanding that I complained about here in this thread:
    All fixed, everyone happy, virtual hug may have occured, belief in Santa Claus
    and Easter Bunny once more. Thank you TypeCon gods and goddesses for intervention.
    Mwa, mwa, mwa. '
  created: '2005-08-04 22:08:21'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em>I had a bit of a weird experience with someone when I tried to introduce
    myself to them at the start of the conference and that put me off being too forward
    and friendly.</em> : (\r\n\r\nThat would be me. : (\r\n\r\nI just received an
    e-mail from Andi, asking about the Roosevelt incident, and all I can say is I'm
    so totally and utterly sorry for what happened. I could attribute it to me being
    nervous at the prospect of meeting Jonathan Hoefler and Stephen not showing up
    and being in New York for the first time and the lack of sleep of the past days
    combined with the jetlag, but the bottom line is I <em>completely misunderstood</em>
    Andi. There really is no excuse for how I behaved, even if it was unwittingly.\r\n\r\nI
    could let this go by quietly as I already sent an e-mail to Andi profusely apologising
    for this horrible misunderstanding, but I feel public apologies are in order.
    I hope that people know me well enough to realise this was completely out of character
    for me. I feel <em>so</em> bad about all this and just wish I could do something,
    anything to set things right.\r\n\r\nAgain, please accept my sincerest apologies,
    Andi.\r\n\r\nAnd anybody, if I zone out and anything like this <em>ever</em> happens
    again, just friggin' slap me. Like, really hard."
  created: '2005-08-04 22:30:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yves, bravo - you're a man in a boy's world.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-04 22:38:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'm proud of you, Yves. I had a feeling it was a misunderstanding and should've
    told Andi to approach -- and slap -- you at the conference. It takes humility
    to apologize publicly. I guess that ego isn't so out of control after all.
  created: '2005-08-04 22:40:39'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: I appreciate you owning up to the adventure, Yves. Apology accepted of course.
    Thank you.
  created: '2005-08-04 22:42:58'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: Yves, thanks for clearing this up... but we can still slap you if we want,
    right?
  created: '2005-08-04 23:57:34'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: Yes, I still want to slap him. On the ass.
  created: '2005-08-05 00:38:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If you slap Yves \"on the...\", you'll mess up his dance moves ability--it
    would be a shame if he would be reduced to mearly recognizing typeface names :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-05 01:45:18'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Errr... I feel there should be a time limit on the slapping, and it should
    be limited to the concerned parties. It's not like this isolated incident would
    give everybody and his dog slapping credits for the next twenty years to come.
    Seriously, my poor ...
  created: '2005-08-05 06:45:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "My favorite moment was seeing just one Type Person live to be 100, I was
    waiting for him to put his hands behind his back, mutter something about \"having
    to go now..\", and pffft! disappearing entirely, with not even a cloud of wordspaces...Getting
    to teach a new generation how to determine if they're left or right eyed with
    the master, Ed B. who taught me the wandering thumb trick. was a close second.
    . . and I'm not doing another 8. :) \r\nP.S. whoever herein returned my authoring
    rights, thanks. "
  created: '2005-08-06 13:36:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thank you David for being on the critique team.  It was good being in the
    \"hot seat\" with such illustrious tutors at the helm.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-06 16:09:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Chris, that was John Downer on the critique team, with Matthew Carter and
    Akira Kobayashi. '
  created: '2005-08-06 16:25:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Opening mouth, Inserting foot :-<\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-06 17:33:24'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\n\r\n\"That would be me. : (\"\r\n\r\ntroubleman. troubleman :)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\"...wish
    I could do something, anything to set things right.\"\r\n\r\nsend good comics
    \ :)"
  created: '2005-08-08 23:12:26'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Hey, I was nervous, I was phased, my ears were still adapting to American
    English (I'm used to British), I misunderstood! I really thought Amy was somebody
    attending some conference at the hotel. I feel terrible about this, give me a
    break. :^/\r\n\r\n<em>send good comics</em> :)\r\n\r\nWell, actually, you're closer
    to the truth than you might suspect. :^P"
  created: '2005-08-08 23:33:47'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Ah, Alexander Isley's presentation was great some great points about showing
    clients work in progress. I loved Carlos Rodriguez's presentation as well...very
    inspirational. One of these days I'm gonna reward myself with some type tattoos.\r\n\r\nI'm
    surprised no one has mentioned Ray Cruz's presentation, I thought it was very
    interesting and different. How does somebody just decide to start doing that?"
  created: '2005-08-09 01:58:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> American English\r\n\r\nNow you've <strong>really</strong> pissed Andrea
    off.  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 04:13:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">adapting to American English\r\n\r\nThat is a real problem. I met my wife
    in England and she claims that she couldn't understand me for a year because of
    my American accent. By that time were were married and it was too late!\r\n\r\nDon't
    slap Yves, kiss him or shake his hand. He had the courage to stand up to corporate
    pirates at TypeCon. And everybody does something idiotic now and then, but it
    takes a <a href= \"http://www.mentsh.com\">mentsh</a> to admit it and move on. "
  created: '2005-08-09 05:07:19'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Don't stir up trouble, Hrant. : ) Yves already referred to me as \"Amy\"
    in his last post. And I'm Canadian, for the record, so I don't have an accent,
    eh? \r\n\r\nAnd yes, we all do idiotic things periodically. It happens. But I
    doubt that my english is so incomprehensible that someone would not understand
    me if I asked a question. Let's move along now, shall we?"
  created: '2005-08-09 11:31:15'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Oops, sorry x 2 Andi. I made the same mistake a foreign friend of mine usually
    makes, when he calls me Peter instaid of Yves. :-/\r\n\r\nBTW I'll post my favourite
    moments in the next Bald Condensed on <a href=\"http://typographer.org/\">Typographer.org</a>,
    which is due somewhere this week."
  created: '2005-08-09 12:21:08'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Yves, Il n'ya pas de quoi fouetter un chat. (No worries)
  created: '2005-08-09 12:33:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Andrea, how rude of you not to have approached Peter in French. ;->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 16:16:38'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: :-P
  created: '2005-08-09 21:34:10'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Well, I had trouble with his Parisian accent. .. :O
  created: '2005-08-10 18:21:47'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "\"Silly little <em>Belgian</em> detective, Madame, not French.\"\r\nHercule
    Poirot"
  created: '2005-08-10 23:42:31'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "send good comics :)\r\n\r\n\r\nWell, actually, you\u2019re closer to the
    truth than you might suspect. :^P\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nand what is the truth? :)"
  created: '2005-08-10 23:53:59'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<a href=\"http://typographi.com/001024.php\" target=\"new\">This</a> is the
    truth. There aren't any left now (the last 40 disappeard within a day after posting
    on Typographica) so it has truly become a limited edition collector's item.\r\n\r\nWe
    will do something special with number 200 though, I guess somewhere in September."
  created: '2005-08-11 12:51:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yves,\r\nNow I feel \"oh so speycial\" having number 55 on your limited edition
    book :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-11 13:34:59'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: Yves, I should've had you jot a note or something on it when I got it from
    you at TC. Then I could be <em>extra</em> and exclusive.
  created: '2005-08-11 16:00:09'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: Hearing Tiffany's voice for the first time was kind of cool. It made me feel
    tired.
  created: '2005-08-12 09:26:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Oh no! Sergej you have to expound on that! Why?
  created: '2005-08-12 16:25:39'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Well, it was mostly gone for most of the conference... :^P
  created: '2005-08-12 17:44:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: :^P But why did it make Sergej feel tired? Did I sound <em>that</em> bad?
    Oh blast!
  created: '2005-08-12 18:04:45'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Favorite moments...hmm probably sitting across from Yves at lunch, after lugging
    8 boxes of TypeCon shirts back from UPS, and discussing type stuff (duh) then
    realizing that I had been visiting his website for months now (www.typographer.org)
    and now I was face to face with the man himself! I thouroughly enjoyed spending
    time and talking with you Yves, and I've enjoyed my 'Limited Edition' review booklet.
    I'll be sure to go to TypeCon2006 in Boston. I also look forward to meeting some
    of the other people and getting to experience the next conference not as a volunteer.
    :D
  created: '2005-08-12 18:48:29'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: Well, for some reason I imagined you wearing a very heavy hat.
  created: '2005-08-13 17:25:28'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Huh?
  created: '2005-08-13 23:37:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Thank you David for being on the critique team.\"\r\n\r\nI guess it's kind
    of like the 60's, hu. I think the proper symbol is :-O 5-arch-heel"
  created: '2005-08-15 15:17:49'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: My report is up at typographer.org, but does anybody know about anyone else's
    report anywhere?
  created: '2005-08-31 22:22:21'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "One of the highlights for me was <a href=\"http://dreamer.nitro.dk/scans/akira-san.html\">this
    minor incident</a>.\r\n\r\nThe guy was later seen walking through the streets
    of Bad Homburg, Germany, mumbling \u201CBiisuto, biisuto \u2026\u201D as the only
    reaction to numerous attempts of establishing contact with him."
  created: '2005-09-02 22:57:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"... I think the proper symbol is :-O 5-arch-heel\"\r\n\r\nOr how about
    :-O <-U ? or is the horse shoe too much hoof-and-mouth disease?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-03 21:10:21'
date: '2005-07-25 20:52:14'
title: Favorite Moments of TypeCon2005 -- Post your photo links!

---
