---
author:
  name: signs79
body: "This logo is for a Concierge Service that aren't the traditional \"keeper of
  the keys\". They are basically personal assistants that run errands, secritary duties,
  cook, clean, remind you of appointments & birthdays, and many more things. \r\n\r\nThe
  hard part of this logo is that you can't show anything specific from what they do
  because there is such a large amount of duties. I decided to use time as the center
  of the name and logo (I thought of the name as well). I don't like using a clock
  to represent time. An hour glass seems the best solution.\r\n\r\nIn the illustrations,
  the hour glass is alot more sand in it because Time Design frees up your time. I
  didn't want to make the hour glass too specific to an actual hour glass. I tried
  to simplify it, but I am not happy with it and would like fresh perspectives."
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Well in New York City Concierge Service isn't about time its about being connected
    into every service available in the city. Even American Express here gets it,
    their radio commercial has a woman talking to her butler giving him his orders
    for the day, he calls AE Concierge Service and all his duties are accomplished
    and of course the woman catches him at the spa. Its about being connected and
    about speed or time, a good Concierge could get you anything anytime.
  created: '2005-07-26 21:45:58'
- author:
    name: signs79
  body: "Dan,\r\n\r\nDo you suggest that the name and the idea doesn't work. I am
    open to suggestions. \r\n\r\nMy client said time was a big factor because their
    goal is to save you time by doing meaningless chores. She stresses that she organizes
    events, activities, transportation, airlines, etc. She also doesn't want to stress
    speed, because many tasks she does doesn't require speed and she doesn't want
    to seem that in those tasks they rush. \r\n\r\nShe is happy with the name time
    design. I want to try and make that work, but I am curious to know if you all
    think that it doesn't work. It isn't set in stone.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-26 22:01:49'
- author:
    name: adnix
    picture: 109591
  body: "If she doesn't want to stress speed, why name her company \"Time Design?\"
    And why design? That makes me think of graphic or interior design. Everytime they
    answer the phone, they'll have to say \"Time Design Concierge\" which is a mouthful.\r\n\r\nIf
    you still go forward with the hourglass concept, perhaps you could incorporate
    the hourglass into the \"g\" in Design, as they have similar shapes. \r\n\r\nBut
    Dan is right when a concierge is more about being connected, regardless of the
    city. Speed is almost a given."
  created: '2005-07-27 01:41:06'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Don't emphsise speed with service. Emphsise quality and personal service.
    She should use her name as the business name (even if you make up the name)
  created: '2005-07-27 12:41:15'
- author:
    name: signs79
  body: Thanks for the feedback. I am talking with the client about changing the name
    to something like OnPoint or Baldwin Concierge. I appreciate the feedback. Once
    we change the name I think there will be more possibilities for a better icon.
  created: '2005-07-27 13:19:43'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: Well, here's a vote for 'time design'. I like it. I think it makes sense.
  created: '2005-07-27 16:20:25'
- author:
    name: signs79
  body: The owner has decided to stay with the name Time Design. She stresses organizing
    over the other functions of concierge and the design fits what she does. I am
    going to do an icon with more illustrative qualities. She felt the icon I did
    was boring.
  created: '2005-07-27 19:18:27'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Well it might make sense where you live, but in Manhattan it just doesn''t
    float the boat. Speed is an attrabute not the primary function of a Concierge.
    A concierge here could get you tickets to an opera that was sold out. A concierge
    here could get you into a nightclub that is impossible to get in to. These are
    points you should teach the client about. '
  created: '2005-07-27 23:07:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Once our Druze concierge in Beirut did some PI work brandishing his M-16
    to get our stolen Yorkshire Terrier back. The image of him standing at our door,
    grinning ear-to-ear, with a machine gun in one arm and Ourpig (\"little Friday\")
    tucked in the other is firmly burned into my synapses.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 23:16:48'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "Hrant that is outragious, are you James Bond or was it your concierge?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nb\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 23:55:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I was just a bourgeois pre-teen growing up in a really messy war, the kind
    that's fought in alleys by people without uniforms. Ourpig was actually stolen
    a second time, by some militiamen who cornered my brother while he was taking
    the poor thing on its evening walk. But I guess that case exceeded Abou Imaad's
    concierge skills.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-28 03:53:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I like your hourglass. What about loosing the frame for it & playiong with
    the hourglass shape. In fact - this is a little out there but women are said to
    hjave hourglass figures. What if it was a a female siluwhette with sand pouring
    inside? Maybe too outragous... Maybe a absract form is better.
  created: '2005-07-29 05:57:02'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I find the hourglass image you have drawn a bit ambiguous, maybe you could
    approach it with a more literal representation which I think would work better
    with your choice of font, as an alternative you could look at a sundial.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-08-01 14:25:27'
- author:
    name: BartvanderGriendt
    picture: 109896
  body: "I think the name works great. It has something mysterious about it, for what
    <em>is</em> Time Design? It leaves a question in the potential customer's mind,
    the answer to which creates a great opportunity to communicate the focus of the
    company. (You can easily imagine the conversation, can't you)\r\n\r\nFor this
    to work and not be too mysterious, you need the word concierge. I think that combination
    works great to set the client's company apart.\r\n\r\nAs for the imagery: I feel
    the hourglass isn't conveying the 'design' element of the name. It just says 'time',
    which is the least important of the two. Maybe you could think up a way to visualise
    by using another graphic approach of the hourglass? Something constructed of diverse
    elements for example (an hourglass made of modern elements, or jigsawlines, etc?)\r\n\r\nIn
    general, I like the idea very much. \r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nMy
    work is a game. A very serious game [M.C. Escher]"
  created: '2005-08-02 15:44:26'
- author:
    name: signs79
  body: I am attaching a new logo to my original first post. I am using both an hourglass
    idea and sundial. The sundial looks classier and more interesting. I would love
    to have feedback on both.
  created: '2005-08-02 16:27:58'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "That sundial does look good, however the \"numerals\" shouldn't go all the
    way round and should be staggered like <a href=\"http://www.1worldglobes.com/DiscSundials/discsundialsbrass.htm\">this</a>
    because the sun doesn't travel 360 degrees in daylight and the shadow cannot be
    cast at the front of the dial with the time shadow in the opposite direction.
    On the other hand you are looking for an instantly recognisable image rather than
    a literal representation. Having said that the hourglass as g is looking good
    as well, although the overall look is a bit heavy. I would have a look at the
    kerning on both, it seems too tight to me except in the me & De combinations.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-08-02 17:58:40'
- author:
    name: signs79
  body: "I have updated the sundial with better kerning, and more accurate illustration.
    Comments would be appreciated.\r\n\r\nThanks,"
  created: '2005-08-02 21:08:42'
- author:
    name: BartvanderGriendt
    picture: 109896
  body: "Nice illustration - though i think it the 'arm' of the dial (forgive my choice
    of words, my english idiom is realtively small) might be a bit more stylized.\r\n\r\nI
    do wonder if the sundial evokes a feeling of slowness... shadows creeping. And
    still it only illustrates only the time element, while the design part is the
    most telling of this client's activities.\r\n\r\nGreat fun to see your development!
    \r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nMy work is a game.
    A very serious game [M.C. Escher]"
  created: '2005-08-03 09:42:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I think this might work. I would do several more versions of the illustration
    in different styles and maybe work to refine one in this style too. I would try
    some additional type as well. This is okay but is maybe too precious for a service.
    I feel like it should either look more or less expensive than this. I think the
    dial has a few too many details to punch to it''s full potential. It could be
    simpler & more contrast-y. The whole thing seems a little to soft or grey so far.
    It gives a contemplative feeling that I like though - like there might be time
    enough to design your time in. '
  created: '2005-08-03 09:52:48'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Greg,\r\n\r\nI agree with BartvanderGriendt that the name works, but as he
    and others have said, you're emphasizing the less important aspect: the passage
    of time. Why not emphasize its organization (it's 'design'). Also, I think the
    imagery you're using is counter-productive. Hourglasses and sundials imply older,
    slower technologies and a certain pastoral simplicity (though I like your original
    designs). Does a modern 'time design' service would want these elements associated
    with them? If you do use them, I'd make them much more modern and abstract. However,
    the idea of organization seems more important to the concept.\r\n\r\nThe style
    of mark you're working with now is well integrated with the type. The character
    of Rotis and the illustration match, but as Eben said, there are a lot of wispy
    details. If you print these at a smaller size, they may break or disappear. However,
    and this is entirely a personal preference, Rotis is really overused right now
    and isn't that great anyway. Honestly, I'd drop it. What is it saying for Time
    Design? I'm not sure it's saying anything beneficial.\r\n\r\nI prefer the design
    with the hourglass in the 'g'. Also, I think the type benefits from tighter setting
    and a cutom adjustment or two (like the 'Ti'), but I'm not sure about the second
    headless i.\r\n\r\nIt's an interesting design problem. I can see the good ideas
    in your work and look forward to see where you go with it."
  created: '2005-08-03 13:38:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Crugen has some good points. It might be good to explore the org aspect.
    \r\n\r\nActually you could use an abstracted time date org model with the cattapilars
    ( or whatever they are called) running next to each other on a chart showing when
    each thing begins & ends & run it as as a bit more abstract...\r\n\r\nOr if the
    symbol itself ( the cattipillar ) is sufficiently recongnizable because of start
    & end marks - maybe use it like a ribbon & tie a knot in it to indicate mastery. "
  created: '2005-08-03 20:17:34'
- author:
    name: signs79
  body: "She wants to stay with the hourglass. I have uploaded under my original message
    a new version that I think works. I am open to new typefaces and would appreciate
    any suggestion. I am metting with the client Friday.\r\n\r\nThanks,"
  created: '2005-08-04 18:12:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Here is what I think I would do given the assignment and a short deadline
    ... I like simpler solutions.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.eyebytes.com/timedesign.gif\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-04 21:41:52'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "My first impression was that you had added a scythe to the hourglass which
    brings a different meaning to Time Design. I think you need to work more with
    the illustration, maybe using a similar treatment as you have above for the frame.
    You might also look at making the rules heavier so they are more sympathetic to
    Rotis. The Ti could be tighter.\r\n\r\n<cite>Here is what I think I would do given
    the assignment and a short deadline \u2026 I like simpler solutions.\r\nhttp://www.eyebytes.com/timedesign.gif</cite>\r\nEben,\r\nThere
    used to be a convention in these forums that those giving a crit on a design would
    only publish their own ideas if they had received an invitation to do so. You
    are obviously unaware of this, but I think you ought to ask permission of the
    poster before posting your own interpretations unless it actually assists in your
    crit. Although why anyone would want a dripping concierge is beyond me.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-08-05 11:19:01'
- author:
    name: signs79
  body: "Timid, I got your suggestions this morning, so I don't have enough time to
    address the type before I submit my first layouts. I did work on the illustration
    before you said anything because the top bothered me like it did you. I have attached
    what I will be submitting to her today.\r\n\r\nEben, the thing that concerns me
    about your layout is that it wouldn't look good at smaller sizes.\r\n\r\nI will
    continue to work on it after our meeting. "
  created: '2005-08-05 13:16:40'
- author:
    name: signs79
  body: Tim, sorry for the mistype.
  created: '2005-08-05 14:17:17'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "The bottom one looks the pick of the bunch to me, although the hourglass
    looks a bit top heavy, the new (amended) name is good too. Hope the presentation
    goes well.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-08-05 14:21:19'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<cite>Tim, sorry for the mistype.</cite>\r\nI've been called far worse :)"
  created: '2005-08-05 14:23:18'
- author:
    name: signs79
  body: "I have added 1 more version with color at my original post called FINAL.
    This is what I showed the client. She loved it!\r\n\r\nIf anyone has advice on
    tweeking the type, please let me know. Thanks for all the help you all have given!"
  created: '2005-08-05 16:41:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: ">would only publish their own ideas if they had received an invitation to
    do so.\r\n\r\nTMID - ( Tim ): What are you talking about? People often express
    visual ideas visually here on the form. Sometimes it's the only quick way to explain
    something. Wrong side of the bed today or something?\r\n\r\nAnd what do you mean
    by 'publish' thats a strange word to use. Maybe your meaning is hooked up in that.
    It's not like I tried to contact this guys client or did something unethical here...\r\n\r\nObviously,
    if an idea is not useful to the person who started the thread they can ignore
    it.  - no biggie. \r\n\r\n> Smaller sizes\r\n\r\nMaybe so. It's a quick & rough...
    I'm not sure I see what you mean. Would you elaborate? Congradulations on your
    result!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-06 08:43:18'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Eben,\r\nI was pointing out a convention that has existed for several years
    on these forums, particularly the critique forum. I was not attacking you or implying
    that you behaved unethically, this convention was created because some posters
    did not appreciate uninvited amendments to their designs published (making a point
    of view generally known). \r\nI accept and agree that it is sometimes a useful
    way to express your comments, however you should ask the thread poster before
    publishing (that word again). I don't want to put you off posting, I wrote that
    part of that post so that you would be aware of the convention and so that you
    didn't discourage others from posting, and I am certain that everyone has enough
    imagination to understand the concepts behind your post if they had been published
    in written form, which might be more useful than a quick & rough sketch.\r\nApologies
    to Greg for hijacking the thread.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-08-06 09:13:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Having been on this critique area for about 6 months ( or so ) I have not
    observed the kind of permission you describe being ask for or given. I have just
    seen people who come on have an idea & solicit for opinions. Sometimes ( mostly
    ) the opinions are written. Sometimes ( less commonly) an idea is expressed with
    an image. Sometime people find the ideas ( written or otherwise ) useful and say
    so - sometimes they are ignored. Sometimes there is a stupid flame war.\r\n\r\nSo
    far folks have either been happy with or ignored what I have to say - or show.
    It's been kinda fab.\r\n\r\nI have never seen an objection to images being linked
    to - until now. \r\n\r\nBTW - Are you making a distiction between referencing
    an image that you didn't make & one that you made? This idea of yours is so vague
    so far...\r\n \r\nBut my bottom line is you are suggesting a convention exists
    that I have never seen. Maybe you'r right about this - but so far I don't see
    any evidence. \r\n\r\nWhen you used the word 'publish' I thought maybe you meant
    something specific by it. May I assume for now that you just mean showing the
    folks a visual idea on typophile on a thread started by someone other than yourself?
    Or do you mean even linking to a photo of a sign for instance?\r\n\r\n> so that
    you didn\u2019t discourage others from posting,\r\n\r\nI can't figure out what
    you mean by this. I know you are trying to clarify this idea of yours but so far
    I am afraid I find it as opaque as ever. Do you think people would be so put off
    by am image link that they would fail to come & ask for an opinion? Really?\r\n\r\n>
    everyone has enough imagination to understand the concepts behind your post if
    they had been published in written form\r\n\r\nThats a big assertion. I don't
    buy it. First of all 'Everyone'? You have to admit that's going a bit far. Everyone
    is too big. Some people are imaginatuion challenged. Thats why there are designers.
    And that is why we show clients proofs - so they don't have to imagine using just
    words. \r\n\r\nSecondly, every medium has it's strengths and words are powerful
    to be sure - but they don't & can't do the same job as an image. That's why we
    have images. Maybe my specific ideas were simple & stupid enough to have been
    expressed in words - you could have just said that instead of evoking 'everyone'.
    \r\n\r\n> Apologies to Greg for hijacking the thread.\r\n\r\nMe too. \r\n\r\nGreg,
    did you in fact feel injured by my post in some way? If you did I'd like to know.
    If you did feel irked I hope you know I had no intention of irking you.\r\n\r\nTim,
    why don't you start a thread where you can explain this so far strange point of
    etiquette. That way we can have this conversation properly & in the right place.
    And if your point is bourne out then you will have served typophile well & helped
    me too. However as of now, your idea appears to me to be not a convention to defend,
    but an uneforceable and incomprehensable innovation - so I think the onus* is
    on you.\r\n\r\n* http://dictionary.reference.com/wordoftheday/archive/2002/09/12.html\r\n\r\nStart
    your thread!\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-06 18:38:12'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nI agree with Tim.  I've read posts here on Typophile for couple
    of years and I was aware of the convention and I've seen it discussed several
    times.  I'll see if I can find some links.\r\n\r\nWhen you comment on (e.g.) logos
    and suggest improvements using words the designer is free to implement them any
    way they want, but when they're shown an image of an improved logo they might
    not be comfortable adopting that approach since it's somebody else's idea, and
    they'd feel like it didn't belong to them any longer.  So in a way, you might
    be robbing them of an avenue they might have travelled down on, if they could've
    done most of the legwork themselves.\r\n\r\nThis is just how I feel.  So it might
    be a good idea to ask for permission first... and I'm in no way admonishing you
    (at all) since you weren't aware of the convention and were just trying to help."
  created: '2005-08-06 20:02:10'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: Here's one <a href="http://64.233.179.104/search?q=cache:MHtaOCZRpB8J:www.typophile.com/cgibin/discus.pl%3Fpg%3Dprev%26topic%3D29%26page%3D26543+%2B"
    target="_blank">typophile post</a> from last year where it's discussed.  There's
    more, but it's a pretty abstract concept to search for.
  created: '2005-08-06 20:21:02'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Eben,\r\nI have accepted your invitation to start a thread on the subject
    of etiquette <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/14424\">here</a>, I will take
    this opportunity to repeat that I was in no way attacking or insulting you, I
    was pointing out that a convention, which you were not aware of, existed, I am
    sorry if you felt otherwise. I have tried to make the reasons behind this convention
    plain and failed, perhaps the new thread will.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-08-06 20:30:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Tim & Lauri - Thanks!\r\n\r\nI will take up the thread there and see if I
    can understand your ideas. I think we want the same thing anyway - a better typophile
    & better interactions on it."
  created: '2005-08-06 20:57:56'
date: '2005-07-26 19:47:37'
title: Time Design

---
