---
author:
  name: dux
  picture: 110146
body: "How do :o)\r\n\r\nI'm doing a little research into Morris Benton Fuller's Souvenir.\r\n\r\nOn
  my travels I've heard lots of suggestion that it was very influenced by two german
  faces Schelter-Antiqua and Schelter-Kursiv from Germany\u2019s Schelter & Giesecke
  foundry. I've yet to track down any evidence to suggest this -- can anyone shed
  any light on the matter? \r\n\r\nIt's not a typeface that everyone necessarily enjoys,
  but something about its longevity in the face of fashion intrigues me. It's nothing
  if not friendly, even if it is in a stupid grinning kind of way.\r\n\r\nIf you know
  of anything interesting about souvenir, I'd really appreciate hearing about it.\r\n\r\npeas"
comments:
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: anything anyone? I'm starting to develop a complex here at typophile
  created: '2005-07-29 12:23:51'
- author:
    name: Clyde Baumwell
    picture: 110870
  body: My recollection is that when ITC developed Souvenir in the 70s they were mainly
    influenced by Cooper (which only existed in one weight at the time) and possibly
    an old hand type metal face called Greco. In the late 70s Souvenir was extremely
    popular and was seen everywhere both display and text!
  created: '2005-07-29 13:30:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't know anything more than you do of its origins.\r\nSo for want of
    anything better, this is by way of an appreciation.\r\n\r\nThe earliest usage
    I've come across, other than in a specimen, was for the title of an article in
    a mid '60s Playboy magazine. Arthur Paul liked to use a lot of exotic types, as
    did many ADs at the time. That was before Ed Benguiat did the ITC family.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I started work in Toronto in the mid '70s, Souvenir and Korinna were the hot faces,
    which was cool because I worked in a small promotion company, and we actually
    had them, on our Quadritek typesetting system. They were much despised even then
    (ubiquity does that), but quite useful. The light and bold weights of Souvenir
    brought a very fresh look to typography. The italics, same width as the roman,
    gave a modern look to layouts.\r\n\r\nSouvenir has always been my favorite Benguiat
    face. I love the originality of the letterforms, yet they all work together. The
    style is derived from art nouveau, but always struck me as being futuristic. Ed's
    workmanship/design is astonishing, virtuoso, and beautiful, especially on the
    light weight.\r\n\r\nThe Swash variants are somewhat tacky. But hey, they did
    it to Caslon. \r\nSome of those po-faced Dutch faces could do with a good swashing."
  created: '2005-07-29 13:47:42'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I too associate Souvenir with the '70s heyday of ITC, but in fact ITC Souvenir
    was a faithful photization of the original Benton font, large x-height and all.
    ITC did a bunch of other faces as \"revivals\" of Benton originals, including
    Cheltenham, Clearface, Franklin, Cushing, etc., but in most cases jacked up the
    x-height, cleaned up the quirks, and in general brought it squarely into the '70s.\r\n\r\nI've
    considered doing a serious digitization of the original Benton Souvenir, but have
    concluded that there's not that much that such a version would have to offer over
    the ITC version. Benguiat got his drawings right, and this particular font has
    such a low stroke contrast that it scales well even without ATF's magical optical
    scaling technology.\r\n\r\nI assume you've come across this link:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.graphic-design.com/letters/tips/souvenir.html\r\n\r\nI
    was able to track down a sample of <a href=\"http://std.dkuug.dk/jtc1/sc2/wg2/docs/n2888.pdf\">Schelter-Kursiv</a>,
    which certainly suggests a strong influence on Benton (the lowercase 'g' in particular
    is quite distinctive), but I think there's still a strong case to be made that
    Benton's interpretation, bringing his uniquely clean American look to the basic
    idea, was the first with all the ingredients for its widespread popularity.\r\n\r\nIn
    the '80s, it was nearly as fashionable for type snobs to bash Souvenir as it is
    to bash Comic Sans today, but I will always have a warm spot in my heart for Souvenir
    because it was the main font in Ranger Rick magazine, a favorite when I was a
    wee lad.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 14:20:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Here is the info from Myfonts about Souvenir:\r\n\r\n\"Souvenir was originally
    drawn by Morris Fuller Benton in 1914 as a single weight for the American Type
    Founders company. It was revived in 1967 by Photo-Lettering and optimized for
    phototypesetting equipment. ITC was formed in 1971 and, with the help of Photo-Lettering,
    introduced ITC Souvenir as one of its first typeface families. ITC Souvenir was
    designed by Ed Benguiat and comes in four weights, each with a matching italic.\"\r\n\r\nMac
    McGrew's 'American Metal Typefaces of the Twentieth Century' adds some interesting
    information. Its working title was 'Round Roman' and the original one-weight metal
    version achieved little popularity. The photo type version by Benguiat was so
    popular that 'Matrotype' in England cut metal faces based on it, one of the few
    cases of a photo type being cut in metal. \r\n\r\nI agree with Nick that Souvenir
    is a very good typeface. It is 'warm and fuzzy' and designers, who have to look
    at the stuff all day tend to get sick of this mood pretty fast. However, the public,
    who look at a sign or ad now and then with such type, appreciates its warmth.
    \r\n\r\nAmong 'warm and fuzzy' types, Souvenir is outstanding, as Nick says, in
    how well it works together. Note that the light version, which Nick feels is best,
    is Morris Fuller Benton's. The heavier weights, as McGrew explains, were drawn
    by Ed Benguiat. I don't know if Benguiat redrew the light version, or this is
    a pretty faithful revival of that weight.  "
  created: '2005-07-29 14:46:41'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: I went ahead and wikified an entry for [[Souvenir]]. William, I hope you don't
    mind too much my cut-n-pastes from your post. dux, as you learn more info (or
    find more samples of Schelter), please fill out the wiki entry.
  created: '2005-07-29 15:48:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Souvenir is the Golden Retriever of the type world.\r\nThat's not a compliment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 18:09:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "On behalf of all Golden Retrievers, I am officially insulted, Hrant ;)\r\n\r\nRaph,
    thanks for your info and links, which I didn't see until after I posted mine.
    Feel free to Wiki away!\r\n\r\nIt is quite interesting to see what Morris Fuller
    Benton took as inspiration, and what he made of it. Some historian could do a
    great monograph on that. "
  created: '2005-07-29 19:43:37'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Also, Golden Retrievers always come back!\r\n\r\nThe interesting aspects
    of the faces like Souvenir that became \"popular\" in the late 60s through early
    70s was that the heavy bulbuous weighted faces were originally popular in the
    early 1920s.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure when <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/7-2411-7-18184/itcsouvenir.html\">Souvenir
    Bold</a> came on the scene (M.F. Benton or Photo-Lettering?) but Oswald Cooper's
    <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/7-2112-7-16759/cooperblack.html\">Cooper Black</a>,
    produced 1921, became so popular that Lanston Monotype released <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/lanston/products/heavyface.html\">Goudy
    Heavyface</a> in 1925 to rival it.\r\n\r\nAll of these were revived and widely
    used during the 1970s.\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm not bulbuous!"
  created: '2005-07-29 20:32:19'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Yes, I\u2019m old, but I\u2019m not bulbuous!</em>\r\n\r\nWould that
    I could make the same claim..."
  created: '2005-07-29 20:34:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'A "reliable source" e-mailed me interesting interesting information about
    Schelter-Antiqua and Souvenir. I will post it to the Typowiki later today--if
    I can get in. '
  created: '2005-08-01 13:54:06'
- author:
    name: peter_bain
  body: "I think some of the wiki info, and the sources for that, got a bit garbled.
    Schelter Antiqua and Tauschnitz Antiqua (basically just some alts) were the start
    for Benton's Souvenir.\r\n\r\nHere's a comparison, Souvenir is the 2nd and 4th
    line:\r\nhttp://www.incipit.com/images/SchelterSouvenirComp.jpg\r\n\r\nUm, I'm
    not 100% sure about the 1967 date for Ed B. starting his ITC version. \"Souvenir\"
    doesn't appear in the Photo-Lettering Alphabet Yearbook until the 1969 version
    (page 1317), but that certainly doesn't mean he wasn't working on one earlier.
    You've all probably read this, with a separate sighting:\r\nhttp://www.stbride.org/conference2003/proceedings2003/phototype.html\r\n\r\nLastly,
    I heard years ago that ATF Souvenir was first revived for Gold Medal Flour advertising,
    but haven't had time to track down an exact year or even verify if that's true.
    Nick Shinn's Art Paul attribution may be the best target.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-01 15:15:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I posted my info to the typowiki. Then I tried to check it and got 'access
    denied'.\r\n\r\nIt would be great to have Peter's visual and the bit from Raph
    that  is relevant.    \r\n\r\nPaul--you are the official typowiki maven, right?--two
    questions.\r\n\r\n1. The listing for 'Souvenir' shows up in the 'new postings'
    box on the typowiki intro page, but if you go to 'typefaces' in the indices list,
    Souvenir doesn't show up. Can you fix this? \r\n\r\n2. If the 'access denied'
    bug can't be fixed shortly, can you give us an idea of the circumstances that
    trigger it, so we can avoid it?\r\n\r\nThanks. "
  created: '2005-08-01 16:49:43'
- author:
    name: dana dahlquist
    picture: 110824
  body: "After a brief absence spent chasing my tail, I'm back to express shock, indignation
    and outrage at the insinuation \"...is the Golden Retriever of the type world.
    That\u2019s not a compliment.\"  \r\n\r\nRetrievers have many oustanding qualities:
    1)never need kerning 2) they track brilliantly and 3)they have a very nice x-height
    (at least as nice as that of Souvenir).\r\n\r\nAnd when was the last time Souvenir
    (or even Cooper Black) went out for a walk with you?\r\n\r\nlisten to the barking
    dogs"
  created: '2005-08-01 20:48:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "hey william, the \"Access Denied\" message that comes up on some wiki entries
    seems to have something to do with capitalization of certain names. a bit of fiddling
    with the url will usually let you get in to the particular entry you're searching
    for. for example, this SHOULD work:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/wiki/souvenir"
  created: '2005-08-01 21:36:22'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Peter (Bain) if you find fault with a wiki entry please do edit it. :^)
  created: '2005-08-01 21:51:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Paul, your link still didn't work :(\r\n\r\nI had clicked on the link in
    the 'new entries' box to get in, but then it blocked me when I tried to go back--same
    link. \r\n\r\nAnyway, since the wiki seems stuck, here is the additional info
    for those who are interested:\r\n\r\nSchelter & Giesecke, a major German type
    foundry, had launched Schelter-Antiqua as their own original in-house design with
    very elaborate and beautiful specimens, an essay on its features, and a warning
    that they had protected it under German law (gesetzlich gesch\xFCtzt). It was
    intended as a very serious contender in the legibility stakes and the Schelter
    & Giesecke specimen contains a fascinating 4-page article on it. There is much
    emphasis on the care put into avoiding over-fine hairlines and achieving good
    spacing. Having invested so much work in a complete series (condenseds and semi-bolds
    and so on) no wonder S&G got legal protection for the face, in Germany at least.
    In fact there were several imitations, and one of them (not very close, but not
    that distant either) from an Austrian foundry was called 'Souver\xE4n'--probably
    not coincidentally similar in name to Souvenir.\r\n\r\nBenton had produced at
    the same time his entry in the legibility stakes, namely Clearface. Perhaps for
    this reason, he took some ideas from Schelter-Antiqua, but went a different direction,
    giving it a distinctive 'cuddly' look quite different from the German type. Its
    origins as a 'legibility' face, as well as Benton's and then Benguiat's skills,
    may account why among 'soft' designs it stands out as extremely readable. "
  created: '2005-08-01 22:07:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> among \u2018soft\u2019 designs it stands out as extremely readable.\r\n\r\nExactly
    how are you arriving at this conclusion? And is the implication that \"soft\"*
    fonts are generally less readable? I would think you [choose to] believe the opposite.
    But I'd like to hear some elaboration, if possible.\r\n\r\n* What's the definition
    of that again?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-01 22:25:32'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nI can't add anything to your quest for info on Souvenir, other
    than to say that I once read after the re-lease of the face in the seventies,
    that it had been a financial disappointment to ATF? when they released it.\r\n\r\nI
    know suvenir has been bashed royally by the typo-elite, but I like it when it
    came out as photoype, and asked a local typesetting house to bring in the disc
    so that I could have them set the type for a Christmas book that I was hired to
    design. The book was Johann's Gift to Christmas, written by a Vancouver newspaper
    journalist, Jack Richards.\r\n\r\nI think the type worked for this book, and I'd
    do it again . . . but then, I like Cheltenham and Copper Plate Gothic. \r\n\r\nJim"
  created: '2005-08-01 22:37:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Good question, Hrant. By 'soft' I am thinking of bending the verticals. Often
    such faces are quite informal display faces, and have a lot of irregularity and
    swashiness, and are not so readable. \r\n\r\nBut come to think of it Comic Sans
    is quite readable. Also I do think all the verticals in the roman lower case often
    gets you into trouble in a text face, creating too much dazzle and lack of differentiation,
    particularly in words like minimum and millenium. So, yeah, I would agree that
    softness in itself does not hurt readability. Just that most of them are not in
    fact designed with readibility in mind, and aren't particularly good in that respect. "
  created: '2005-08-01 22:49:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ps the comment about softness was mine, not the 'reliable source'. I am not
    so reliable, as you all know!
  created: '2005-08-01 22:52:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> And when was the last time Souvenir (or even\r\n> Cooper Black) went out
    for a walk with you?\r\n\r\nNot a walk, by I once coralled three lost Goldens
    into my backyard (using my beagle's single leash) until their -equally airheaded-
    owned showed up - but not before each of his dogs had managed to fall into the
    pond (one of them twice). Huh, I wonder, does that count as the canine equivalent
    of \"found type\"?\r\n\r\nJim, I love Cheltenham, even though much of the \"establishment\"
    hates it (probably mainly because an \"outsider\" did it). I mean the real thing
    though, not the ITC crap. (BTW, the quest is actually Luke's, not mine.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-01 22:57:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, Evert Bloemsma has said that \"a straight line is a dead line\".
    Although I personally do see merits in straight lines, I'm not at all sure that
    \"curvy lines\" (not the way I'd use \"soft\", btw) don't actually <strong>help</strong>
    readability.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-01 23:00:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Whoops, never mind. \r\n\r\nI ought to look before I push that button. Souvenir
    has straight verticals. The soft look comes from rounded terminals and bowed diagonals.
    (The bent U is an exception).\r\n\r\nHobo is Benton's face with bent verticals--not
    so good. \r\n\r\nI should have said that among those that affect this mood, most
    are display faces with lesser readibility..."
  created: '2005-08-01 23:13:59'
- author:
    name: peter_bain
  body: "Tiffany, I'll try my bit on the wiki entry.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-01 23:15:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But Souvenir <strong>does</strong> have some curvy parts -notably diagonals,
    like in the \"A\"- which are traditionally straight. My Paphos (please, please
    don't ask me when it'll be released) does that too. Although I certainly hope
    nobody will think it's cuddly...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-01 23:22:49'
- author:
    name: peter_bain
  body: "William (et al), I edited what was there, trying to stick to the facts where
    I know them.\r\n\r\nFWIW, I would differentiate between low stroke contrast, rounded
    serifs, and a curved \"skeleton\". \"Soft\" is not particularly descriptive."
  created: '2005-08-02 00:04:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Peter, thanks for participating. Never be afraid to add articulation to the
    wiki. I'm sure everyone appreciates it.
  created: '2005-08-02 00:27:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, thanks for contributing. \r\n\r\nPaul, your link and the one in the
    'new' box still don't let me in to the wiki entry. Raph's link, above, which has
    the cap S in Souvenir in the address, I discovered, does let me in. \r\n\r\nPeter,
    you are right of course that 'soft' is too vague. Being specific about the rounded
    terminals, stroke contrast, which traditionally straight features are bent, etc
    is much more accurate.\r\n\r\nThere is, though, a certain 'warm and fuzzy' aesthetic
    that designs try for in various ways, and Souvenir achieves it while also getting
    good readibility. For example, Benguiat's self-named face achieves the warmth,
    but is less readable than Souvenir."
  created: '2005-08-02 01:18:38'
- author:
    name: dana dahlquist
    picture: 110824
  body: "\"each of his dogs had managed to fall into the pond (one of them twice).\"\r\n\r\nRetrievers
    \"falling\" into a pond is like birds \"falling\" into the sky... and most retrievers
    have, as standard equipment, an automatic \"shake\" reflex/function that commences
    immediately after said retriever exits the water, and spreads aqueous joy on all
    in their immediate proximity.\r\n\r\n\"Outside of a dog, a book is man's best
    friend; inside a dog it's too dark to read.\" -Groucho Marx\r\n\r\nlisten to the
    barking dogs"
  created: '2005-08-02 05:05:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Check out the second image here:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/4748497.stm\r\n\r\nHey,
    I know: the official \"friendly fire\" font!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-05 16:45:29'
- author:
    name: peter_bain
  body: "In case anyone was looking for this: <cite>http://www.incipit.com/images/SchelterSouvenirComp.jpg</cite>
    \r\nhas been changed to:\r\nhttp://www.incipit.com/scheltersouvenir.pdf\r\n\r\nITC
    Souvenir is within the gray bands.\r\n\r\nAs far as backstory, I've included a
    discussion and showing of Eastern Souvenir in the Nov. 2005 Communication Arts
    typography column."
  created: '2005-11-10 01:48:23'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: I need to read this. :-)
  created: '2013-01-07 17:48:05'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Also see Souvenir's autobiography: \r\n[[www.creativeampersand.co.uk/images/alphabet_images/souvenir.pdf]]"
  created: '2013-01-08 02:12:01'
date: '2005-07-27 14:03:16'
title: Souvenir

---
