---
author:
  name: alchion
  picture: 110619
body: "I am doing research for marketing materials the be used for a new non-profit
  graphic designers group based in northern america. We have a name and domain registered
  (which can not disclose at this stage as we still have trademarking and legal issues
  pending) The name has dual meaning, one which implies that designers and creatives
  are almost a species unto themselves.As I mentioned before, I want to design marketing
  materials and an advertising campaign around this theme, so I need to do a bit of
  research to discover what the most common perceptions are with regards to designers/creatives-
  aesthetics, dress code (or lack there of), body language, interaction, sleep patterns,
  attitude toward life, politics, clients, the law, etc...\r\nI realize this can be
  an endless list, but it will of course be narrowed down to the stereotypes that
  are most commonly percieved by the public at large.\r\nI would expect this research
  to get off in some crazy directions. I expect the final expressions will be full
  of humor. \r\n\r\nDesigners Feel: Superior, Egotistic, Passionate, hate when less
  creative folks get paid more then themselves, etc...\r\n\r\nDesigners Desire: Sexual
  partner to position themselves as letterforms during intercourse-like Eastern Indian's
  have The Karma Sutra, etc..\r\n\r\nDesigners Wear: black turtlenecks, have cool
  glasses, have tattoos of letterforms instead of names of loved ones....\r\n\r\nDesigner
  Think:\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Ehw.
  created: '2005-07-27 21:50:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'i agree with nick: yik.'
  created: '2005-07-27 22:12:08'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Are you kidding? You haven't a clue about designers or even people. The sterotypes
    you mention are right out of People magazine. Grow up and do real research. Create
    focus groups in your area with designers as the participants. It will cost you
    some time and money but you won't spew the tripe you initially posted.
  children:
  - author:
      name: lbothell
    body: "Chill, dude. Some of us looking into this research ARE in an ever-expanding,
      ever changing group of folks who meet in person & hang out. Some of these do
      have some of those qualities. \r\n\r\nThe goal here is to see what people think
      and want to add to increase understanding and get accurate research from folks
      who live in areas where we can't meet in person, not to get exclusionary negative
      comments. Thanks. :0)"
    created: '2005-08-08 20:14:16'
  created: '2005-07-27 22:25:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Don't be so defensive, guys. The important thing here is that stereotypes
    do exist, and they're useful (as long as we're careful not to apply them blindly
    to individuals); we can help Ole refine -even redirect- his research. Don't let
    the anticipation of the revelation of some negative traits (and there certainly
    are some) cause you to dig a trench, pout, stick your tongue out, etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 22:31:04'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: "Reply to Dan. Exactly. Stereotypes. What non-designers / general public,
    think of \"creatives\" or \"designers\" and not what designers think of themselves.
    \r\nSo far the research has demonstrated that at least 3 designers think the idea
    is stupid, this is \r\nof value already. I appreciate the feedback negative or
    positive. "
  created: '2005-07-27 22:33:04'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: i'd say stereotypically, most designers are not stereotypical.
  created: '2005-07-27 22:33:31'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: "As I look at the last couple of posts I realize one thing about designers,
    that they often prefer to show an eye or partial view of their face when most
    others would shown a full face shot when posting a picture of themselves. Why?
    Is it because they would rather be their work that \r\nidentifies them or is it
    just to be different? Granted the last 2 post were me and Hrant, but the partial
    face shot and eye thing seems very common with designers. If nothing else, at
    least an interesting observation, although properly not part of the common stereotype
    I am searching for. "
  created: '2005-07-27 22:41:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">the idea is stupid\r\n\r\nEhw = stinky, not stupid."
  created: '2005-07-27 22:43:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: The partial face thing is because the space Typophile gives for icons is small
    and square, while faces are oblong and need a little more room.
  created: '2005-07-27 22:47:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Tiffany: Then why does so much of the stuff they make look the same?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 22:47:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> stinky\r\n\r\nYes, how dare you put a grande artiste in a box! \r\nEven
    one that wants to put other people in boxes.\r\n\r\nBTW, the Typophile icon does
    not need to be square.\r\nAnd I've seen some quite huge ones.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 22:50:43'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: "Tiffany, your comment is so true and makes me think. I hate the stereotypical
    standards in stockphotography where for example just about any group shot of people
    seems to have to express racial diversity. In the same way it would be difficult
    for a stock agency to make fun of \"stock\" photography standards by doing exactly
    the same type of shots, I am a bit stuck here as well. I am not certain the concept
    is strong enough, so this is why I am doing the research. Regardeless of the outcome.
    I expect to learn from this. I could learn that most designers think even bothering
    to describe designer in a certain way with humor, external viewpoints such as
    the publics stereotyping, etc. is not desired. \r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 22:53:05'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: "The non-profit is a design community oriented organization and with zero
    funding. So why bother? As most organizations need at least some funding to do
    anything. Well let me elaborate a bit. There is already a current organization
    with 245 members sponsored by Meetup.com we already have meetings at least twice
    a month, online presence, etc... so why change it if it already works? Thje group
    is Meetup.com sponsored, and has it's limitations. \r\nThe Meetup group was free,
    but now charges, so I am the only person paying, which is fine, but being that
    it is a Meetup, the infrastructure is not exactly designed for creatives, the
    site is not flexible, we can not add portfolios, and other desired features required/desired
    by creatives, so we a building a new site, presence, etc from scratch. This is
    what I need the research for, so as you mentioned earlier Dan, I should pay for
    research, etc. Well not an option. "
  created: '2005-07-27 23:02:22'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: the one thing that bothers me about stock photography ... and now I'm generalizing
    ... is how it appears that all people are beautiful and have time to do 3 hours
    of yoga per day.
  created: '2005-07-27 23:02:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Most groups only like being \"described\" (critiqued) by people from within
    the group. It's a defensive mechanism.\r\n\r\nBTW, why isn't anybody bringing
    up the always-wear-black thing? :-)  To be fair though, this hangout is more for
    type designers, not graphic designers... and the dress code of type designers
    seems harder to figure out. Personally, I try to wear shades of gray as much as
    possible.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 23:03:43'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: Good thing he didn't ask this about a year ago, then we could have responded
    that most designers are in touch with their inner children.
  created: '2005-07-27 23:06:46'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: And.... it's not about wearing black, it's about creating notan.
  created: '2005-07-27 23:07:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">how dare you put a grande artiste in a box!\r\nEven one that wants to put
    other people in boxes.\r\n\r\nHrant, why do you feel the need to occasionally
    act like a jerk?\r\n\r\n>BTW, the Typophile icon does not need to be square.\r\n\r\n\"Maximum
    dimensions are 60x60\"\r\nSo yes, it can be rectangular, as several do, but most
    artistes prefer a slightly larger canvas, and the square suggests possibilities."
  created: '2005-07-27 23:17:18'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Nick, where is Hrant allegedly being a jerk this time?
  created: '2005-07-27 23:19:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why do you feel the need to occasionally act like a jerk?\r\n\r\nI don't
    want you to feel lonely?\r\n\r\n> the square suggests possibilities.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want your image as big as possible. You know, commensurate with your Stratospheric
    Talent. And actually, the size limit is not enforced. See the Hairy 11, and the
    guy in the turtleneck.\r\n\r\nThe problem, of course, is Modernism (and I suffer
    from it too).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-27 23:24:57'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: See, there's another stereotype, that Hrant will act like a dick.
  created: '2005-07-27 23:31:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Lets get back to the sterotypes. I live in Manhattan in the upper east side
    and only wear black when I don my running shorts and never use sunglasses and
    I'm a male. Other people describe yourselves and the poster will get the idea
    we are not cookiecuter steriotypes.
  created: '2005-07-27 23:35:48'
- author:
    name: willdean
  body: "i'm a white guy with an afro. does that help?\r\n\r\nseriously."
  created: '2005-07-27 23:41:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Although not of these people are graphic designers, here are your type people...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/karlfrankowski/28686122/in/pool-typecon/
    \r\n\r\n...no polo-necks, not much black, with the exception of Matthew a bunch
    of scruffs* really. A group in dire need of \"Queer Eye for the Font Guy.\"\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si\r\n\r\n*Fortunately myself and David Berlow were cropped otherwise the standard
    would have been even lower. "
  created: '2005-07-27 23:43:05'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: The designer look. Less is more and pragmatic. Often creatives of the male
    species often have very short hair. When doing an all nighter all the time a hair
    style that requires little maintenance or adjustment for apperance sake seem practical
    and from my experience often a common look of creatives at least in the northwest.
    It is the same in other countries and the rest of the US?
  created: '2005-07-28 00:22:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Thank goodness this short hair stereotype is ignored! ;^)
  created: '2005-07-28 00:25:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "now about that short hair thing. . . There are a few of us here who have
    our hair short by attrition :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-28 00:40:48'
- author:
    name: Shu
    picture: 109463
  body: "Well I have a feeling that Tiffany's comment is directed at my hair specifically.
    It is where all my design power lies. Thanks Tiff. If you haven't seen that doo
    check out the flickr pool.\r\n\r\nI don't wear black. My hair is dark enough."
  created: '2005-07-28 01:20:20'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I have long hair. I rarely wear black. I'm more of an earth tone guy. Don't
    know why some are getting offended, I'm a designer and don't consider this offensive
    at all. Its fun to look at stereotypes. One that has yet to be mentioned: judgemental.
    Designers can be very judgemental, the profession kind of asks for it. \r\n\r\nDan,
    no offense at this statement...but being a white male designer living on the Upper
    East Side is already a stereotype, though I think that's the joke. \r\n\r\nI HATE
    indie rock BTW, and love metal. I do however, have cravings for fried chicken
    and watermelon, but never usually at the same time. :)"
  created: '2005-07-28 02:03:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I listen to opera and eat Souvlaky :-) I wear black for a joke (like at the
    typecon party).  Wasn't he Johnny Cash look a 90's thing? I don't do tatoos.\r\n\r\nOh,
    and Terry, I am a white male living in a suburban town but I do eat watermellon
    and fried chicken at the same time :-) You have not lived until you pick out watermellon
    seeds with greasy chicken fingers :-P\r\n\r\nTerry, I forgot to give you my subway
    pass before I left--it still had 2 days on it dude! Bummer\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-28 02:16:59'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\"... what the most common perceptions are with regards to designers/creatives-
    aesthetics, dress code (or lack there of), body language, interaction, sleep patterns,
    attitude toward life, politics, clients, the law, etc\u2026\"\r\n\r\n0. zero.
    people don't think about designers. and they don't care about what they eat; when
    they sleep etc etc.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-28 03:08:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Nick, where is Hrant allegedly being a jerk this time?\r\n\r\nSo you think
    I'm an \"artiste\" too?\r\n\r\nSorry, but sensitive little old me didn't find
    the negative stereotyping (vain, jealous) in Ole's initial post amusing.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I'm quite taken with this:\r\nhttp://www.adtrophies.com/\r\n\r\nThe only stereotype
    I'm aware of for type people, and this is more of a demographic than a stereotypical
    perception, is that they are disproportionately white and male, compared with
    the rest of the design profession, and the population at large.\r\n\r\nSibylle
    Hagmann recently wrote an interesting article on women and type design:\r\nhttp://vcj.sagepub.com/current.dtl"
  created: '2005-07-28 03:10:32'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\"Sibylle Hagmann recently wrote an interesting article on women and type
    design:\"\r\n\r\nhey, what are you doing :) that was my next thread...\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-28 03:13:31'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: "So we have the \"type\" stereotype as: defensive metropolitan white thin
    skinned balding men in poor physical shape. Who better for the job?\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-28 03:27:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">poor physical shape\r\n\r\nYou can't have seen the dancefloor at TypeCon."
  created: '2005-07-28 03:45:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So you think I\u2019m an \u201Cartiste\u201D too?\r\n\r\nThe thing is,
    <strong>you</strong> obviously think so (even if you insist on using \"artisan\",
    \"craftsman\" or some other more politically correct term to mean it), and that's
    of course why you keep acting offended! That and you enjoy it.\r\n\r\n> The only
    stereotype I\u2019m aware of for type people\r\n\r\nType people, really nobody
    cares about. Graphic designers very much are in the public perception. And I'm
    sure that's what Ole is considering here. Focus. Always lacking. I guess it's
    too macho.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-28 04:13:33'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I'm not proud, and basically sterotypical.\r\nI'm just a nerdy looking <a
    href=\"http://www.fabioifc.com/fabio/FAB_GIFS3/fabio_on_rock.gif\" target=\"new\"><strong>typographer</strong></a>!\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-07-28 04:35:10'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I'll add my \"ehw\" here because your stereotypes are so superficial that
    they make your whole approach seem shallow. I don't understand the need for the
    hair color, clothing preference, stereotypes. When I get a client brief suggesting
    that middle-aged moms will be the target user I don't ask what color their hair
    is (unless it's related to the product!) or what they eat for breakfast (unless
    it's relevant!). I ask broader questions like how they shop, what activities occupy
    their free time, how they get their information, what is their income level. Do
    they make decisions for others. Et cetera.\r\n\r\nI'd be more interested in the
    deeper stereotypes about designers. For example(s):\r\n\r\nWhy do designers put
    celebrity designers on pedestals believing they can do no wrong? (Maybe we don't.
    I can think of plenty of examples where celebrities work is heartily critiqued,
    just not by any major design organizations.)\r\n\r\nWhy do designers (who presumably
    try to help others change) have a difficult time with change themselves? (We're
    riding a bandwagon or two like most people we criticize.)\r\n\r\nWhy do most designers
    seem to lean leftward in their politics? (Do they really think politically or
    do they just want to question the status quo because it's hip or because it's
    what \"good\" liberals have done since the sexual revolution?)\r\n\r\nWhen asked
    why designers want to succeed in design, why is the answer often \"fame\"? (Is
    it because answering \"money\" is unrealistic?)\r\n\r\nAs for me, I haven't worn
    all black since. Geez. Since like 2001. =)"
  created: '2005-07-28 08:01:08'
- author:
    name: loginfailed
  body: "Alchion, you're asking the wrong crowd here.\r\n\r\nThere's a distinction
    between the cultural stereotype of any given group, and the perception of the
    characteristics of a specific group by a group member. The latter is usually quite
    diffuse, because:\r\na. members know their own groups quite well and have a sophisticated,
    many-facetted view of that group\r\nb. people are almost never member of one and
    only one social category. So they're not often going to think of themselves solely
    as stereotypical members of said social category, because in the image of oneselve,
    other categories \"interfere\" and add to the self-image\r\nc. not only the image
    of a social category that one is a member of is diffuse, and gets more blurry
    around the edges, so is the actual category itself (perhaps with the exception
    of male-female, and even then...)\r\nd. all of the above.\r\n\r\nThen, on the
    other hand, there's the social stereotype which is often very shallow, clich\xE9,
    etcetera. The social stereotype is well known to practically all members of the
    culture in which the stereotyped group lives, and because of that, and all the
    stuff I mentioned above, it's better to ask non-group members about the stereotype
    than group members.\r\n\r\nFinal remark: stereotyping in marketing campaigns often
    leads to the target (stereotyped) group being hurt, or dismissing the campaign
    as being shallow. I wish you much subtlety and humour, and I'm curious about the
    result ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-28 10:13:49'
- author:
    name: Rene Verkaart
    picture: 110212
  body: "I totally agree with Joe. Forget the shallow stereotypes. There is really
    a big difference between graphic designers and typographers (mostly found on this
    site). \r\n\r\nI'm a Dutch graphic designer and typographer, so I can't really
    judge about the mentality in America. I would say here in Holland we have two
    kinds of designers; the ones that want to be in the foreground, and the ones that
    just love what they do and don't need to be in the foreground. \r\nThe ones that
    want to be in the foreground dress 'different', need their own little personality
    to be most shiny, feel that they are the middle point of any party and know everything
    better just because they are a designer. I don't know many of them personally,
    I just see them from the outside. So perhaps I'm also  wrong with my judgement.
    :-)\r\nThe other group is not that unnormal from most people. Perhaps clothing
    wise you would not directly identify them as a designer. But if you look carefully
    the magic is in the details. That pants are just a bit more special, those glasses
    just have a different shape and his/her voice is just a bit more loud. \r\n\r\nI
    don't feel offended at all by the earlier comments. I think your not that far
    off if you describe my first group of designers. Fortunately there are not that
    many of them out there. \r\n\r\nIn general I would say:\r\n\r\n<strong>Designer
    love:</strong> beautifull things, to be trendsetters, to be innovative, to talk
    to fellow-creatives about what they do, to make the world a better and more beautifull
    place and to get paid while doing that.\r\n\r\n<strong>Designers hate:</strong>
    stereotypes (unless they can use it for their work), not being understood, financial
    arguments with the client, rainy days and advertising agencies. \r\n\r\nI hope
    this helps...\r\n\r\n\xAEen\xE9\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Also tired of Helvetica?</strong>
    Get an <strong><a href=\"http://www.characters.nl\">Insider</a></strong> with
    more personality\r\n\r\n*** www.characters.nl  { Typography to express yourself
    } ***"
  created: '2005-07-28 11:27:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">The thing is, you obviously think so (even if you insist on using \u201Cartisan\u201D,
    \u201Ccraftsman\u201D or some other more politically correct term to mean it),
    and that\u2019s of course why you keep acting offended! That and you enjoy it.\r\n\r\nHrant,
    I'm really fed up with your crap.\r\nI've asked you repeatedly to stop analyzing
    and insulting me, and yet you continue to do so. Do you really think it's cool
    to call someone an artiste?\r\nI AM offended, I DON'T enjoy it: once more, PLEASE
    don't analyze my motives or call me names."
  created: '2005-07-28 12:52:24'
- author:
    name: maaike
  body: "I wasn't offended either, and I think designers definately have bigger ego's
    than, um, 'ordinary' people. And I can relate to what Rene says about attention
    to details (and advertising agencies, LOL).\r\nI do wear quite a lot of black.
    But than again, I already did that before I even thought about being a designer,
    so I'm not sure it means anything."
  created: '2005-07-28 13:44:45'
- author:
    name: yipyop
    picture: 110307
  body: Wait, don't all designers wear <a href="http://twink.net/presspix.html">bunny
    ears</a>? Now I'm really embarrassed.
  created: '2005-07-28 14:12:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Joe,\r\nThere may be a few designers who hold visibly successful designers
    up as \"Rock Stars\" but that is true of any profession (Boot-licking is an old
    established custom.). Like most designers, I have labored in anonymity for my
    entire career.  I feel I have done some very good work as well as some in the
    more odoriferous category.  Like most designers, I have my opinions about the
    assorted \"Rock Stars\" in our field--some I hold in great esteem simply because
    I admire their work.  There are other \"Rocky-horror Stars\" whom I perceive as
    quite ordinary in their work and I say so if the subject arises. I don't feel
    it appropriate to name names here and begin a \"Sucks / Doesn't Suck\" list. I
    think what we see (and what starts stereotypes) is that the most vociferous (read
    obnoxious) boot lickers in our profession ooze praise with such a phony veneer
    that we remember those people above all the many others who just go about their
    business.  In a crowded subway car, we remember the guy who hasn't had a shower
    in a month, not the rest of the people along for the ride. We really don't \"know\"
    what designers as a group feel.  We only have heard opinions stated by others.
    \ We can create self-fulfilling prophesies by only recognizing designers who fit
    the narrow stereotype and ignoring those who don't.  Perhaps what we need is a
    comedian like Jeff Foxworthy who has a routine where he asks \"How do you know
    if you are a redneck?\" and then gives answers involving trucks, beer, trailer
    parks, and NASCAR:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-28 14:49:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Much better posts, today.\r\nAs you were.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-28 15:46:28'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Mr. S\xF8rensen;\r\n\r\nif you are quite serious about your research into
    stereotypical profiles of \"designer/creatives,\" one generally doesn't ask the
    focused group what \"characterizes\" them, <em>n'est pas</em>? (stereotypical
    use of foreign language clich\xE9s).\r\n\r\nStereotypes are often utilized by
    writers of television programs to quickly introduce ancilliary characters thus
    avoiding unnecessary character development.\r\n\r\nSo, a good place to research
    commonly perceived caricatures is to turn on the boob-tube (no, not porn videos).\r\n<dl>\r\nFor
    instance:\r\n<dt><strong>CSI</strong> (plus NY and Miami) victims in morgue\r\n<dd>Interior
    designers - 2</dd>\r\n<dd>Antique collectors - 5</dd>\r\n<dd>Hair stylists - 1</dd>\r\n<dd>Washed
    up actors - 3</dd>\r\n<dd>Typographers - 0</dd></dt>\r\n<dt><strong>LOST!</strong>
    survivors of plane crash\r\n<dd>Doctors - 1</dd>\r\n<dd>Ex-Military Middle-Eastern
    - 1</dd>\r\n<dd>Recovering drug addict Rock Star - 1</dd>\r\n<dd>Obligatory Asians
    - 2 (husband & wife)</dd>\r\n<dd>Obligatory Afro-Americans - 2 (father & son)</dd>\r\n<dd>Type
    Designer on flight back from TypeCon - 0</dd></dt>\r\n<dt><strong>Sopranos</strong>
    business owned by mob\r\n<dd>Exoctic Dancer Bar - 1</dd>\r\n<dd>Sausage & Butchery
    - 1</dd>\r\n<dd>Race horses - 1</dd>\r\n<dd>Sporting Goods Store - 1</dd>\r\n<dd>Type
    Foundries  - 1</dd></dt>\r\n</dl>\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-07-28 15:58:46'
- author:
    name: Aron Hoag
    picture: 110512
  body: "Off-Topic: You might be a Designer if:\r\nYou admire the type in Campell's
    Alphabet Soup...\r\nOh those delicously rounded san serifs!\r\n\r\nBack On-Topic:
    My Two Cents:\r\nDesigners are fiercely overprotective of big ideas. They will
    champion them at all costs... Very detail-oriented; \"I wonder what type of wood
    grain is on that workstation desktop?\"... Specifics are everything to them: the
    visual look of gloss inks, the tactile feel of certain papers, the correct usage
    of typography... For most modern designers, their life is married into technology.
    It's an arranged marriage, but they accept it. Most designers that I know are
    very technologically literate... The designer stereotypes that I pick up on the
    most are always the ones on the edge of trendiness: VW/mini driving, coffee smoking,
    fashionistas. (I'd argue that this is a learned behavior)... Designers love seeing
    good design work, and will let people know about it, \"Did you see the execution
    of that commercial!?!\"...\r\n\r\nI hope this helps out, just off the top of my
    head. Cheers. - Aron"
  created: '2005-07-28 16:16:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Type Foundries - 1\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps this guy was either smuggling drugs
    in job cases or using lead to weigh down the guys \"Swimmin wit da fishes\"\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nI
    see your point though, there isn't much exposure of designers to the TV world.
    When people ask what I do and I answer \"Graphic Design,\" I get a confused look
    and the reply, \"...and what exactly is that?\"\r\nBefore we become stereotyped
    by the media, we need to be on their radar.  Right now we are a faint blip about
    as visible as a Stealth Bomber;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: you left out the Lawyers
    and resturant owners bodycount :-)"
  created: '2005-07-28 16:21:59'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "<em>PS: you left out the Lawyers and resturant owners bodycount :-)</em>\r\n\r\nTrue,
    but I thought they too often the butt of jokes.\r\n\r\nAs for other \"creative
    characters\" used on TV, I totally forgot about one of Jim Carey's early appearances
    as the cartoon artist on \"Duck Factory.\"\r\n\r\nI guess this demonstrates the
    type truly is invisible, and so are those who put their lives into it.\r\n\r\nBut
    the truth is... I just as soon stay off the radar. I wouldn't want to be \"racially
    profiled\" and get falsely arrested for overusing swash characters.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, and I'm lovin' it... sort of!"
  created: '2005-07-28 16:36:39'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: some really good posts. the ones that i like most are those that show that
    what really share is more inward, less outward. kind of a set of values as in
    "designers love ___, designers hate ___." this line of thinking is also present
    in joe's and aron's posts. i think if you're targeting creatives you're better
    off focusing on work-related values rather than outward fluff which is harder
    to stereotype.
  created: '2005-07-28 17:05:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Nick Shinn, I apologize. I am not taking Hrant's side. I think you both harp
    on too much about things, and neither side should get more attention for doing
    it. :^P I am sorry.\r\n\r\nErr. No, I <em>wasn't</em> thinking specifically of
    you, Shu, but ...\r\n\r\nStereotypes are what cause misunderstanding in between
    groups of people. I dislike them. It is easier to start out with a generalization,
    but if you don't allow for getting to know a person individually you might miss
    out on an amazing friend/partner/employee/employer/etc. \r\n\r\nI do wear black,
    all of the time. But, it isn't because I'm a designer, it is because it is what
    I'm drawn to most.\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-28 17:20:22'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: "Amen, Aron!!!\r\n\r\nI think visual sterotypes don't really fit with most
    designers. Even while I'm actually the bald, black-wearing, mini-and-oldtimer-driving,
    latte-drinking technophile from the textbook myself (but I was all that even before
    I became a \xABdesigner\xBB, so...), I know loads of colleagues who don't fit
    that bill. They wear relaxed clothes, often with a hiphop or metal flavour, have
    hair of every imaginable length and drive every kinda car you'd care to imagine.
    The clich\xE9 above is the CD/AD-clich\xE9 from the 80/90s. I think there are
    actually more designers looking like your usual trendy street/hiphop youth than
    that whole Satre-thingamabob above.\r\n\r\nAnd everything Aron said is true. Details
    are so fascinating, aren't they :-D. I know, I annoy the HECK out of people, when
    I stare at photographs for hours, trying to decipher a newspaper in the background
    or something like that...\r\n\r\nHD Schellnack"
  created: '2005-07-28 17:35:17'
- author:
    name: seanglenn
    picture: 110401
  body: "I think that the public still has the perception of the graphic designer
    as two completely unrelated stereotypes:\r\n\r\n1) Black turtleneck, black slacks,
    black shoes, nerdy (but cool-looking) glasses. If male, a goatee or some type
    of well-groomed facial hair, if female, a severe hair-style, preferably black
    in color. This is the most common stereotypical image.\r\n\r\n2) Flakey \"artist\"
    type. Crazy colorful clothing, messy/wild hair, usually a female because males
    dressed this way look like clowns. This could be a designer or an illustrator
    (the public rarely has an idea of what designers do anyway).\r\n\r\nIn reality,
    designers are a diverse lot (aptly demonstrated on this very board). Some are
    urbane sophisticates with leftist politics. Some are down-home folks more comfortable
    working from the office set up just outside their sprawling country home. Some
    are just regular folks doing a job that they are (more or less) passionate about.\r\n\r\nCan
    you represent designers with the cliche of the black turtleneck sophisticate?
    Yes. It's shorthand for designer. Non-designers will get it. If you show a typical
    designer (which isn't typical at all) they could think anything -- it's a photographer,
    a rock star, a rapper, a farmer, a father/mother/son, etc, etc, etc.\r\n\r\nAs
    designers we use visual shorthand all the time in our work. This needs be no different.\r\n\r\nI
    think the conversation would be better served by creating a catalog of what you
    consider visual shorthand and conceptual shorthand for designers. It used to be
    t-squares, x-acto knives, etc. Then it became the computer, since designers adopted
    computers quickly enough to completely change the industry. Now that everyone
    uses a mouse and a computer, that is no longer an accurate visual shorthand.\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you all think?\r\n\r\nSean Glenn\r\nArt Director\r\nwww.superunicorn.com"
  created: '2005-07-28 21:34:03'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "\"VW/mini driving\"\r\n\r\nOh, how I love mini-coopers. :) Aron was right
    on the money. One of my most embarassing moments was when I was insulted in public
    by Chris Rock and his writers from the Chris Rock show...(long story, not really
    worth mentioning). One of the writers said earlier that if you can't find humor
    in a situation...\"you're too involved.\" At the time I was mortified, but now
    that I'm older I agree with that. If you can't laugh at yourself, you might be
    taking yourself too seriously.\r\n\r\nI do also want to add that if you enter
    an arena of lions with a porterhouse steak around your neck, shouldn't be too
    surprised by the outcome. \r\n\r\nChris, as a daily Subway rider I usually get
    a one month unlimited pass, I'm good 'til August 15th. :)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-28 21:38:58'
- author:
    name: maaike
  body: "<cite>Now that everyone uses a mouse and a computer, that is no longer an
    accurate visual shorthand.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes it is, if it's an Apple computer..."
  created: '2005-07-28 21:42:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh, this just hit me:\r\nEdna Mode, from The Incredibles.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 00:07:08'
- author:
    name: LogoMotives
    picture: 110231
  body: "I'm sitting here at my Powerbook at the patio table in my garden wearing
    a white T-shirt, boxer shorts, no shoes, and square-ish eyeglasses (I wouldn't
    want to be caught dead wearing little round glasses and a black turtleneck) and
    I haven't shaved in two days.  I'm drinking a big gulp latte that I just made
    for myself and munching on some chocolate covered sunflower seeds.  Is that stereotypical
    behavior and appearance?\r\n\r\n\r\nJeff Fisher :: Engineer of Creative Identity\r\n<a
    href=http://tinyurl.com/5y8bm>Jeff Fisher LogoMotives</a>\r\n\r\nAuthor: <a href=http://tinyurl.com/5o7ud>Savvy
    Designer's Guide to Success</a> from HOW Design Books"
  created: '2005-07-29 00:37:19'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Excellent post \"Joe Pemberton\_\"\r\n\r\nI would also add the question:
    Why do so many 'established' designers enter design competitions?\_\r\n\r\nIn
    my\_opinion\_competitions achieve nothing more than giving your ego a massage.\_As
    Nick Cave wrote to MTV,\_\"My muse is not a horse and I am in no horse race\"."
  created: '2005-07-29 01:29:35'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Mmmmm, didn't even know they made chocolate cover sunflower seeds. Aside from
    an ego stroke, design competitions also get you more jobs.
  created: '2005-07-29 02:54:50'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "What is the sterotypical behavior and appearance of a market researcher?
    :-P\r\n\r\nOh and to answer your question, we're too cool for school. Our lives
    are design, it's quite an amazing thing really. Everywhere we go, we notice color
    combinations, good or bad, type design/setting, again...good or bad etc. etc.
    I personally love pointing out things to my friends who are engineers (the few
    engineers that I can put up with anyways) that they would never notice and make
    them realize how bad the kerning is on this poster or how these two colors vibrate
    and explain why they're doing so!"
  created: '2005-07-29 04:44:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The sub-species of type designer is actually quite like an engineer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 06:27:10'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "\"Aside from an ego stroke, design competitions also get you more jobs.\"\r\n\r\nHow
    so?\r\n\r\n(Maybe this question should have it's own discussion forum?)"
  created: '2005-07-29 07:10:06'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<em>The sub-species of type designer is actually quite like an engineer.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is true, yet I never really thought of it that way."
  created: '2005-07-29 07:39:57'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I would also add the question: Why to so many \u2018established\u2019
    designers enter design competitions? </em>\r\n\r\nMore awards = bigger fees...at
    least, that's the way Stan Richards, the king of Dallas designers some thirty
    years or so ago, seem to see it.\r\n\r\nAnd, as long as we're talking about stereotypes,
    let me add a curmudgeonly perspective on the designer/poseur...\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>bad
    spelling</li>\r\n<li>bad grammar</li>\r\n<li>bad language</li>\r\n<li>bad attitude</li>\r\n<li>bad
    haircut</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nDid I miss anything?"
  created: '2005-07-29 12:30:08'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "\u201CAside from an ego stroke, design competitions also get you more jobs.\u201D\r\n\r\nHow
    so?\r\n\r\nWinning a design competition and being printed in a magazine is the
    same thing as advertising. In proportion to how much it costs to actually advertise
    in print magazines, the entry fee (if you were to win) is significantly less.
    Its not just an ego stroke, its also marketing. "
  created: '2005-07-29 14:29:43'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: And if you get in a magazine and they ask you questions get back to them fast.
    You might just get quoted in the text.
  created: '2005-07-29 14:57:20'
- author:
    name: LogoMotives
    picture: 110231
  body: "1.) Chocolate-covered sunflower seeds can be found at Trader Joe's stores
    if you have them in your area.\r\n\r\n2.) Design competitions do result in the
    most successful marketing for my business.  My work is in something like 75 books
    now and now about 85% of my potential clients begin their interaction with me
    by saying: \"I was in my local bookstore and saw your work in a design book...\"
    \ As tbiddy mentioned it's a much less expensive advertising/marketing tool than
    traditional methods - in fact, some competitions charge no entry fees.  Jupiterboy
    also makes a great point - developing relationships with editors/writers can only
    add to your self-promotion efforts.  When a magazine or writer contacts me for
    input or a quote I take care of it immediately.  When writing my own book I contacted
    50 designers to submit items for inclusion in the book - which would mean worldwide
    exposure - and only 8 responded.  I still don't understand how any designer would
    miss such an opportunity.\r\n\r\n\r\nJeff Fisher :: Engineer of Creative Identity\r\n<a
    href=http://tinyurl.com/5y8bm>Jeff Fisher LogoMotives</a>\r\n\r\nAuthor: <a href=http://tinyurl.com/5o7ud>Savvy
    Designer's Guide to Success</a> from HOW Design Books"
  created: '2005-07-29 15:29:27'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "<em>Did I miss anything?</em> -- oldnick\r\n\r\nYes...\r\n- Faulty memory\r\n\r\nand,
    yes...\r\n- Faulty memory\r\n\r\nOn the subject of competitions:\r\nIt's a little
    tricky on this one. If one does exemplary work and is recognized by his/her peers,
    that's \"warm and fuzzy.\"\r\n\r\nIf one does work in order to impress his/her
    peers, that's bad Karma. It's also bad design, since there is another agenda attached
    to the solution of a (design) problem.\r\n\r\nOnly the individual who received
    the recognition knows if their craft is honest or if it is just to add plumage.
    <em>He who adds plumage will eventually plummet</em>.\r\n\r\n---------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I can't remember!"
  created: '2005-07-29 16:06:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Oh to be edna mode! She was pretty cool. What a house! What cool inventions!
    What energy! \r\n\r\nThis is maybe the silliest thread on Typophile ever. Silliest
    premise anyway."
  created: '2005-07-29 17:33:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">what is the stereotypical behavior and appearance of a designer?\r\n\r\nI'll
    opt for Eva Marie Saint in North by North West. In fact, I'll be Cary Grant, \"advertising
    executive\" (Vice President, Creative Services?)"
  created: '2005-07-29 17:53:05'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: 'Roger Thornhill: Now you listen to me, I''m an advertising man, not a red
    herring. I''ve got a job, a secretary, a mother, two ex-wives and several bartenders
    that depend upon me, and I don''t intend to disappoint them all by getting myself
    "slightly" killed. '
  created: '2005-07-29 19:57:20'
- author:
    name: Aron Hoag
    picture: 110512
  body: "Alchion:\r\n\r\nI think that whatever concept you arrive at to present these
    designer stereotypes, that it has to involve humor. Something that if we saw it
    ourselves we'd laugh & maybe realize we're a tad anal retentive.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    produce an overly technical logo/identity that shows/pokes fun at the thought
    process of coming up with a logo? With Univers typeface as the logotype? Use stereotypical
    visual references such as pencil marks indicating a change in the logo or X marks
    denoting distaste by a fictional picky logo designer. The idea being that designers
    are perfectionists, but understand that your company's image is what matters most.\r\n\r\nYou
    could execute this idea with TV commercials showing a somewhat younger designer
    dressed stylishly with designer eyewear. And he is talking/informing viewers about
    your cause, while rambling vague design principles/conspiracy theories that relate
    to the TV spot. Man... you could have some fun with that! Imagine the possibilities;
    Designer: \"So we we're going to print using this alien hybrid technology were
    the printed image is embedded into the molecular structure of the fiber... Embedded
    man! But The Man won't pay extra, so we're using our regular printer!\" Follow
    up with a good tagline saying that while the designers might be crazy, their work
    is outstanding."
  created: '2005-07-29 20:15:19'
- author:
    name: JSBracher
  body: "Hello Everyone,\r\n\r\nI'm working with Alchion on this project, he mentioned
    the forum, and I thought I'd come have a look.\r\n\r\nSome observations-  stereotypes
    are a persistent pattern of human thought, dealing with them objectively is useful.
    \ Even if we don't like being stereotyped.  In working with various managers and
    dealing with friends, they do have preconceptions about what designers are like,
    just as we each have ideas about who best exemplifies being a designer.\r\n\r\nExploring
    this is useful; it helps us more effectively understand those we deal with.  And
    we'd like your help with this.  What is the most pernicious stereotype about designers
    you've had to deal with?  What do you tell people when they ask \"What are designers
    like?\"\r\n\r\nMy worst - dealing with a marketing manger when contracting with
    a Very Large Corporation  She felt I had no need to attend meetings about the
    websites I was supporting, she would just tell me what I needed to know.  Her
    view was that I had nothing to contribute, I was just a tool with no grasp of
    business needs.\r\n\r\nWhat are designers like - We're dreamers.  We're trying
    to find out how to do something new.  Whether it's truely novel, or just looking
    for a new way to do something old, We're trying to pull something out of our brains
    and make it real.\r\n\r\nTo that end, most of us have something different about
    us.  We struggle with that creation.  We all have something we fixate on, something
    that should be better.  Whether it's type, a website, or what have you.  And while
    we are trying for new and different, we (being human) have herd following tendenies.
    \ I have no idea what is hip right now (I need to get out from behind the computer
    more), I'm sure there is something.\r\n\r\nAnd of course there are differences.
    \ We see them because we always see differences within our groups that we are
    blind to when looking at groups from the outside.\r\n\r\nThanks for the useful
    comments, keep them coming.\r\n\r\n-Jim"
  created: '2005-07-29 23:08:04'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Thanks for the overview, Jim.\r\n\r\nYou just reminded me of situations I
    encountered regarding \"business minded\" managers.\r\n\r\nIt isn't so much the
    stereotypic image that these types have of \"designers\" that become barriers
    to two-way communications, it's the designers' own ability to articulate concepts
    that equate to $$$ in profits.\r\n\r\nFor years now, I have positioned myself
    as a marketing \"expert\" in positioning products, services, and building mind-share
    within \"target\" markets.\r\n\r\nSee... it's the vernacular, and with that I
    was able (most times) to participate as a full contributor and team member, and
    less so as the \"flaky designer.\" The skill of being articulate about concepts
    without losing your audience is worth cultivating. For the most part, this is
    something that many designers find difficult.\r\n\r\nRemember, it's not your \"great
    ideas\" and superb sense of design you need to express. It's the ability to convince
    others that you can assist in solving problems that they obviously have difficulty
    doing themselves. This can only be done if you demonstrate a general understanding
    of their business situation and goals. So, like anything else, if you act stupid,
    you'll be treated that way.\r\n\r\nWe are all the victims of some sort of stereotype,
    unfortunately some much worse than others. And to be sure, there are jerks and
    bigots everywhere and in all walks of life.\r\n\r\nI'm not really sure where or
    what your mission really is, but nonetheless, remember whatever you do, do it
    for the greater good of all... designers, that is.\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but not too old to learn!"
  created: '2005-07-29 23:39:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I guess by \"designer' you guys mean graphic designers?\r\nThen why not say
    so?\r\nAnother stereotype: identity crisis.\r\n\r\nAnd what of;\r\nfashion designers\r\ninterior
    designers\r\nindustrial designers\r\ncommercial designers\r\njewelry designers\r\nlandscape
    designers\r\nstage/set designers\r\nlighting designers,\r\nsound designers, etc.
    \r\n\r\nOne stereotype fits all?\r\n\r\nTwo sub-divisions of graphic design which
    are quite specific:\r\nnews designers\r\nweb designers\r\n\r\nAnd perhaps the
    most designerly stereotype of all: art director.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure typographers
    and type designers belong in the same category as graphic designers. Typography
    is a (much older) adjunct of graphic design, as is illustration and photography,
    and now animation.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-30 01:03:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "exhibition designers\r\ntextile designers\r\n\r\nbut:\r\nhair stylists\r\nmakeup
    artists\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-30 01:10:04'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Yes oldnick, you forgot 'bad breath'.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately none of my clients
    read design award books."
  created: '2005-07-30 06:11:56'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "\r\n(hmmm, is there a way to edit your poor typing/spelling in this forum?)"
  created: '2005-07-30 06:31:20'
- author:
    name: disgusting
  body: "I'm in So. Cal. and interview and hire quite a few designers. I'm going to
    generalize what I see in my area. Oh, and also I am dealing strictly with the
    web.\r\n\r\n- RISD/Art Center Type: Elitist. Speaking as if Design was a science.
    Referencing the history of design and and continually attempting to implement
    theory. \r\n- New School Type: Designers that are self educated through just simply
    working in the field. Achieving successful design through interests w/o a theory
    based explanation.\r\n- Hack Job Type: Usually old school that either went to
    college for design or made their way from print. Design isn't successful but fills
    you up with a ton of crap theory to justify the bad design. These are usually
    freelancers that exploit the independent companies.\r\n\r\nI guess I could probably
    expand the list but this is pretty much what I deal with.\r\n\r\nI really don't
    know where this whole wearing black, small black rimmed glasses and turtlenecks
    thing comes in. Id have to say that's either a dated stereotype or maybe people
    on the east coast. It would like saying that everyone from the beach says \"gnarly\"
    and acts like Spicoli. A majority of the people that I interview and hire wear
    laxed clothes. A small percentage dress up. If anything they dress up within their
    fashion style. I interviewed a guy the other day that has insane design skills
    that was wearing a button up shirt, jeans and flip flops. I looked beyond the
    laxed clothes and more at his work. One being that his work was what I cared about
    and two - I'm not gay. \r\n\r\nOn attitude. I think that the internet has created
    somewhat of a rockstar vibe for some designers. Designers now can show the world
    who they are. Before you had to probably make a million calls around to find out
    who in the agency did that work. This has been good and bad. I guess you can slot
    the rock stars into two bins. Theres the ego ones that demand credit and high
    pay because they did a few big client sites. Then theres the designers with the
    artist type attitude that dont need that much credit but just want to continually
    do fine work. Upon hiring I have to always weed through that. I guess simply the
    internet has created a good amount of egos for people who don't have the experience.
    Old time Ad agency guys used to hold the crown. Now its kids that are in the middle
    of nowhere that are getting the fame. \r\n\r\nI do think though that by doing
    your research through something like this or the web in general you're really
    going to have to also put in a b-s alarm in there for designers that are commenting
    that have only been in the industry for 3-5 years. A majority of them wont have
    a solid opinion that holds weight on where the industry is today. Its sort of
    like asking a freshman in college whats wrong with the world after they take a
    bong hit. \r\n\r\nAnyways... Just my thoughts. Hey I have been in a bit of a bubble
    for awhile but see the turnstyle of designers in front of me.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-30 07:16:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.designobserver.com/archives/002204.html\r\n\r\nI remembered this
    article on Design Observer.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-07-30 09:13:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I\u2019m not gay.\r\n\r\nNo way, \"jimmy\", you're all business."
  created: '2005-07-30 11:14:53'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: 'I just got a new studio space in a co-op and I had to meet with a tenant/designer
    I will be sharing space with. We talked a bit about what we both do, some small
    talk and towards the end of the conversation it was expressed that my co-tenant
    was trained in Bern Switzerland. The way this was expressed I could tell this
    was meat to impress me by implying superior understanding, status, etc... This
    brings me to another point I have been thinking about. That when it comes to DESIGN
    anything European is superior, including ex-patriots from there. I am from Denmark
    myself and on occasion something about Denmark comes up in conversation with a
    client and somehow I suspect this added knowledge that I am European (even if
    I moved to the States at 13) is an asset, just like a design degree would be. '
  created: '2005-07-30 13:13:24'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: "- I meant to say that the perception is that anything European is superior,
    just be cause it is European. \r\nI watched a new Ford Focus commercial the  other
    day, and it is mentioned that the car has \" European inspired suspension\". What
    the hell is this? Well can't matter much as long as it is European. \r\n"
  created: '2005-07-30 13:17:51'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: 'I suspect it would be to a designers advantage if living in the States to
    adopt a slight German/Dutch/Scandinavian accent. Come to think of it, a good British
    accent is even good. '
  created: '2005-07-30 13:22:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">European inspired suspension\r\n\r\nAs opposed to the traditional American
    boat ride."
  created: '2005-07-30 13:33:03'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I think that being an expat can help you almost anywhere. The grass is always
    greener, and in my experience, people always seem to think that designers from
    someplace else are cooler (ok, this probably has to be qualified\u2026 I guess
    just anyplace else isn't good enough)\r\n\r\nFor instance, here in Germany, many
    designers seem to revere all things Dutch (typefaces, designers, methods, etc.).
    This reverence stops the moment that soccer enters the discussion, though\u2026\r\n\r\nAnd
    even I've noticed that people expect me to have some sort of \"strange\" knowledge,
    since I came from the States. So I benefit, too.\r\n\r\nWhen I was flying to TypeCon,
    a woman sitting nearby on the plane chatted with me briefly about graphic design.
    She working in marketing somewhere in Florida, and had heard something about German
    designers being \"the best.\" She said that I must be very talented to be able
    to get a job in Germany, and compete against all those designers with such great
    \"German training,\" etc.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-30 14:32:38'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I'm in agreement on the European thing. One place that I can think of that
    both graphic designers and type designers can get instant credibility is if they
    say they're from Switzerland. \r\n\r\nI'm surprised no one has touched much on
    graphic designer's behavior. I have found MANY people in the field that exhibit
    at least one of these personally traits:\r\n1) High strung\r\n2) OCD tendencies\r\n3)
    Nervous/anxiety issues\r\n4) A willingness to take a huge amount of disrespect
    from superiors because they feel it is necessary to succeed in the field\r\n5)
    A willingness to disrespect others (as a superior) because they feel that aggression
    is necessary to be highly successful in the field\r\n\r\nAlso, Nick Shinn mentioned
    more traditional professions. As a graphic designer that's also an illustrator
    and aspiring type designer, I've gotten a bit of disrespect from some older graphic
    designers where I recently graduated. Sometimes there seems to be illustrator/designer
    turf wars. \r\n\r\nThis could certainly go deeper than surface area subjects like
    looks. Though I would say here on the East Coast, its thick-plastic framed glasses,
    not thin wire framed. Which I have a pair of on right now. :) \r\n\r\n\"When writing
    my own book I contacted 50 designers to submit items for inclusion in the book
    - which would mean worldwide exposure - and only 8 responded.  I still don"
  created: '2005-07-30 16:57:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Leave it to an Angeleno to get to the point - thank you jimmy.\r\n\r\n> \"European
    inspired suspension\". What the hell is this?\r\n\r\nI caught that too recently!
    What a farce. It's just like when they say \"Now back to Spiderman\", and they
    show the end credits. Basically, lying. Part and parcel of this culture these
    days.  :-(\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-30 17:24:55'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Now back to Spiderman\u201D, and they show the end credits. Basically, lying.\r\n\r\nLOL"
  created: '2005-07-30 19:00:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "> \u201CEuropean inspired suspension\u201D. \r\n\r\nIt is all marketing BS.
    Other times they applaud a truck's American toughness even though half of the
    parts came from somewhere else.  It all swings around in a circle.  Those of us
    old enough will remember when \"Made in Japan\" was a put down and \"Made in America\"
    meant quality. These days, check out the reliability ratings of Japanese cars
    and American cars and tell me what adjective fits which?\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-30 20:41:29'
- author:
    name: disgusting
  body: "Nick - On the gay comment:\r\n- Hey, I am a smart ass with the best of them...
    and youre no comedian. I was injecting a tad of humor but I assume that when it
    comes to design theres nothing funny."
  created: '2005-07-31 06:25:40'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "\u201CEuropean inspired suspension\u201D\r\nViewed from the other side of
    the Atlantic, American cars are not expected to handle corners very well (the
    generalisation is that with fewer corners there is less need for suspension that
    is based around small lanes and sharp corners but there is a need for very soft
    suspension giving a smooth comfortable ride for long straight roads). This dates
    from the Seventies when it had a point, I don't know if this is still the case
    but it is a view that still persists, I suppose this is reverse engineering that
    perception.\r\nIf you check out the Design Observer article that I posted earlier
    you can see that Ford advertised the Focus in UK with a slightly camp, tetchy
    fashion designer.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-07-31 08:15:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I forgot to mention that many Japanese auto makers have plants here in the
    U.S.\r\n\r\nBack on subject--are priests wearing black suits confused with designers?
    Are they if they wear \"hip glasses?\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-07-31 19:44:38'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I don't know about that\u2026 but I do think that there are a few designers
    who might be confused for priests :-/\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-31 20:13:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "FYI, \"papaz\" means priest...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-31 21:49:56'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well, you dress too colorfully. I was thinking more of designers who where
    tight buttoned down shirts, with jackets\u2014all black of course. Sort of like
    [[Uwe Loesch]]. Or like what Keanu Reeves' character wore in the second <em>Matrix</em>.\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-07-31 21:57:10'
- author:
    name: Martin LAllier
    picture: 110634
  body: 'Frank Juval has written something very amusing on the subject: http://home.cfl.rr.com/juval/care.html'
  created: '2005-07-31 22:11:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I assume that when it comes to design theres nothing funny.\r\n\r\nI'm calling
    you on your homophobic \"humour\".\r\n\r\nThere are some things that one shouldn't
    laugh at (unless one is self-deprecating) and these are the physical characteristics
    people are born with: race, gender, sexual orientation, build.\r\n\r\nThat this
    might seem to be as old-fashioned as political correctness is probably because
    the dignity of causes such as equal rights, gay rights, and feminism has been
    weakend in recent times by exploitation from within, by gangsta rappers, queer-eye
    consultants, and glamor-model athletes."
  created: '2005-07-31 22:12:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> There are some things that one shouldn\u2019t laugh at\r\n\r\nYou have
    your list, other people have theirs.\r\n\r\nI personally don't make fun of homosexuals,
    but I do make fun of intellectual pansies (of any gender or sexual preference)
    and people who go out of their way to feel offended on behalf of groups they don't
    even belong to. And whining about that isn't going to help you, me, or anybody
    else. You cannot force-feed behavior; work on your own tolerance instead. Oh,
    and work on <strong>content</strong> too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-01 01:06:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " >I do make fun of intellectual pansies (of any gender or sexual preference)
    and people who go out of their way to feel offended on behalf of groups they don\u2019t
    even belong to.\r\n\r\nBut what if someone had friends or relatives in the group
    they didn't belong to, would you excuse them your derision in that circumstance?
    \r\n"
  created: '2005-08-01 03:15:13'
- author:
    name: LogoMotives
    picture: 110231
  body: "Nick -\r\n\r\nGood point.  Being gay myself, I've always appreciated friends,
    family, industry peers and others expressing the fact they have been offended
    by the insensitive comments/actions of others.  Another example:  The fact that
    I am not African-American does not in any way lessen that I am offended when individuals
    make racist comments in my presence - and I will let those making such comments
    know how I feel immediately.  In fact, I've asked people to leave parties/dinners
    at my home for making racists jokes or comments.\r\n\r\n- J.\r\n\r\n\r\nJeff Fisher
    :: Engineer of Creative Identity\r\n<a href=http://tinyurl.com/5y8bm>Jeff Fisher
    LogoMotives</a>\r\n\r\nAuthor: <a href=http://tinyurl.com/5o7ud>Savvy Designer's
    Guide to Success</a> from HOW Design Books"
  created: '2005-08-01 05:16:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Being <strong>concerned</strong> about an oppressed minority is one thing
    (a very good thing), for example how I often bring up the plight of American Indians.
    But being <strong>offended</strong> is fake; essentially, it's <strong>acting</strong>
    offended. And tripping over yourself to feel such offense... requires therapy.
    In some people it really seems like a Munchausen-type syndrome or something!\r\n\r\nI
    myself have always been a sucker for siding with underdogs. I remember when I
    first moved to the US as a kid, they put me in summer school; I knew nobody there;
    but when I saw a kid being teased and pelted with stuff, I went and stood by him,
    not even knowing if he wasn't a nasty bastard; I remember being asked why the
    hell I was doing that; but I don't exactly remember my reply - probably because
    my English was lousy. However, I was not <strong>offended</strong>; I was not
    eager to raise the Call of the Whine. I don't know for sure if Jimmy has anything
    against gays or not; it doesn't much matter; he could have something against <strong>Armenians</strong>,
    and I still would be able to look beyond that (as was once the case on Typo-L,
    about 6 years ago). Each and every one of us is a product of circumstance and
    the behavior of other people. When it comes to individuals, be more eager to tolerate
    than to complain, to focus on the content instead of the ripples. It is injustice
    and discrimination in the <strong>systems</strong> that we need to focus on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-01 05:42:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, I read that Hagmann article this evening, and besides the fact that
    her recommendations were pretty mundane, I was quite perturbed by the persistent
    conflation of typography/graphic-design and type design. The two are as different
    as... men and women? :-) In fact it would have been quite interesting if she had
    reflected on the fact that there are more women than men in graphic design, but
    quite few women in type design. Maybe the respective natures of the two tasks
    has something to do with it? Yes, I know saying such things banishes me from running
    for public office. What a monumental shame...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-01 06:04:11'
- author:
    name: disgusting
  body: "Wow... never thought that the weakest dose of humor actually created a back
    and forth. I guess you could add touchiness to irrelevant details to the designers
    mental baggage. \r\n\r\nI was simply saying that I wasn't checking out the same
    sex person for details on his attire. I could apologize I suppose but it wasn't
    a slam on gay people.\r\n\r\nGot a gay cousin, gay friends and live in a predominantly
    gay area. \r\n\r\nJust move back into the thread and dont put any emphasis on
    that one reference to a cultural group."
  created: '2005-08-01 06:22:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Where's a moderator when you need one?\r\n\r\nIt should not be left to me
    and Terry to point out that an anti-gay comment (unintended though it may be)
    is out of line on Typophile. And Hrant should receive some censure for saying
    that I need therapy."
  created: '2005-08-01 13:21:01'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Hrant should receive some censure for saying that I need therapy</em>\r\n\r\nLighten
    up, Nick: it seems pretty clear that a<strong>lot</strong> of the participants
    in these forums could use therapy, myself included. But maybe I see things differently
    because I'm married to a therapist (family discount!)."
  created: '2005-08-01 13:49:09'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "There isn't room for anit-anything on these boards, unfortunately we are
    all sensitive humans that sometimes inadvertantly say insensitive things. Either
    get back on topic or we can simply close the thread. -- Please point the comment
    out to me that supposedly started this need for a moderator? \r\n"
  created: '2005-08-02 16:54:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/africa/4735389.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-02 18:20:23'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Jeff brings up a good point. I AM African-American, and I DO get offended
    when I hear homophobic comments or comments to any other minority group (although
    they don't have to be a minority group for it to be offensive.) \r\n\r\nI grew
    up in an alpha-male type of city and environment and I just have zero tolerance
    for those kind of comments. \"But I'm not gay\" is something that many alpha-males
    say (though I'm not implying that you are). Making an announcement about your
    sexual orientation in my eyes is never really necessary, unless someone is directly
    hit on by someone of the same sex (depnding on the situation it might still be
    unnecessary). By making a proclamation, (however differently you may think on
    this issue) implies that there is something inherently wrong with being gay. Take
    your comment and insert the word straight, Polish, Black, Indian, Californian
    or any other group and see how far it gets you. Its just plain offensive.  And
    it didn't look like anyone was hitting on you. \r\n\r\nThat's how I feel...and
    we can now return to the thread. :)"
  created: '2005-08-02 18:32:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I just have zero tolerance\r\n\r\nThat's the real problem, in proportion
    to the heterogeneity of a society.\r\n\r\n> implies that there is something inherently
    wrong with being gay.\r\n\r\nNo. It implies that there is something <strong>different</strong>.\r\nDon't
    be afraid of differences, relish them - otherwise we're luke-warm mud.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-02 18:37:38'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "\"That\u2019s the real problem, in proportion to the heterogeneity of a society.\"\r\n\r\nIntolerance,
    should not be tolerated. :)\r\n\r\nNo. It implies that there is something different.\r\n\r\nDifferences
    don't have to be implied, they should already be apparent."
  created: '2005-08-02 20:09:10'
- author:
    name: disgusting
  body: "Thanks Hrant. I know your simply chiming in but youve explained the point
    well. \r\n\r\nIm surprised no one picked up the fact that the guy who started
    the thread was talking about people having sex in typographic positions. "
  created: '2005-08-04 06:16:06'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Holy moley, this is a super great thread! There are so many valid points
    on here that could be discussed ad nauseum. I wish I could comment on a lot of
    these past posts:\r\n\r\nWhen I was going to design school in the early 80s, everyone
    had a stereotypical idea of what an artist was. In fact, I remember seeing some
    graffiti on the art building that read \"You're not an artist, you just dress
    like one\". And I think the all black dress code might harken back to that time.
    I don't see many designers all in black anymore and I teach at an art college.
    We have a small percentage of goth dressers now and get everything from jeans
    and tshirts and long hair to dye jobs and hand-made clothing. Designers like to
    express themselves in different ways. One commonality I do find is the love for
    all things design - as someone mentioned previously.\r\n\r\nI can remember going
    shopping with a girlfriend of mine who is a furniture designer/builder. We were
    in a shop and I turned round to see a beautiful fabric on a shelf. \"Look at that!\"
    I mused and reached for the fabric. \"Oh, I know,\" cooed my friend, as she reached
    for the shelf and ran her hand along it \"I think this is curly maple!\"\r\n\r\nI
    think (but could be wrong since I am in the thick of it) that most design (be
    it graphic, industrial, type, etc.) used to be shrouded in a bit of mystery. That
    is, most people couldn't wrap their heads around what design was and what differentiated
    one designer from the next. Years ago, when I told people that I was a typesetter
    and I sat in a room by myself along with a linotype machine that filled it, people
    just stared at me. \"So you're an artist?\" they'd ask. \"Um, Okay, sure\", came
    my reply. I think that with the advent of user-friendly software that most people
    can buy and understand, being an artist/designer has become more common - people
    understand what it is that we do. They see the results of it and can appreciate
    our roles. (I'm sure I am not speaking for type designers as I do remember the
    speech that Erik Spiekerman gave re: When people now ask me what I do for a living,
    I tell them I am a brain surgeon and they are happy with that answer and walk
    away). But maybe the first step here would be to differentiate between kinds of
    designers.\r\n\r\nAs for me, I am a typography teacher, graphic/web designer and
    mother of 2. I do my best to stay current with the design industry and love reading
    and surfing the web. I love doing anything design related. I sew vintage style
    dresses and might have 2 or 3 pieces of black clothing somewhere in my closet.
    I have about 50 pairs of shoes, I kickbox regularly and I paint and exhibit when
    I can. My hair has varied from time to time. My husband is an industrial designer
    and audiophile who drives me crazy with his record collection and constant speaker
    building and amp testing. When he's not renovating some part of the house and
    neglecting all of the details, he's off mountain biking or bicycle racing. He's
    involved with human factors to pay the bills. \r\n\r\nHow stereotypical is all
    that? I haven't a clue. But please, keep the posts coming - they are great to
    read!"
  created: '2005-08-04 18:14:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Erik Spiekerman gave re: When people now ask me what I do for a living,
    I tell them I am a brain surgeon and they are happy with that answer...\"\r\n\r\nFor
    years, I having telling the same kind of people at parties that I am a plumber.
    \ I guess I should have aimed higher?  Perhaps Type High?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-04 18:42:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, no. At parties, you tell them you're a talent scout.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-04 18:49:03'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Oh yes, Chris, you have to aim higher.. not that there is anything WRONG
    with being a plumber! \r\n\r\nWhen I went through Customs on my way to NYC, the
    agent asked me what I was doing in the big city. I answered that I was going to
    a Type Conference. \"A Tape Conference\"? she asked. \"No, Type... letters, alphabets...,\"
    I tried to explain. She just looked at me deadpan. The next time I was asked why
    I was in NY, I replied, \"Conference on Letters\". The gentleman I was speaking
    to raised an eyebrow, \"Leather?\" he said. \"No, no!,\" I said, \"LETTERS - L
    E T T E R S!\" The third and final type someone asked me, I replied \"I'm a designer
    here for a design conference\". That was easy!"
  created: '2005-08-04 18:51:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: It has taken some time, but most of my clients with whom I have a long standing
    relationship with now know that the conferences I attend have to do with typefaces.
    However, I doubt I'll ever get them to understand why people gather to discuss
    something like typefaces. "You mean like the fonts in Word?"
  created: '2005-08-04 18:52:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!  My wife would love it if I said that :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-04 18:52:17'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Oh man, Tiff - that is great!!! \r\n\r\nJust before bedtime one night, I
    was reading a book on Essays by typographers. I turned to my husband and said,
    \"You gotta hear this, it's great\" and read him a passage. Minutes later, I looked
    over and he was fast asleep. I gave him a push and said \"Hey! Did you miss that?!\"
    Without turning over he answered, \"Hun, it's like you're reading out of the Sears
    catalogue to me.\" Sigh.... Us designers have to stick together..."
  created: '2005-08-04 19:00:19'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'I loved it when Erik Spierkman said something along the lines of: "When people
    ask me what I do and I tell them  that I design typefaces, they ask me why I bother
    when all I have to do is use the ones that already come supplied on the computer."
    That was precious.'
  created: '2005-08-04 19:04:17'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: "www.elitedesigners.org\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-05 16:00:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I love the \"Elite Designers\" site!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-05 16:29:07'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "That site is great Miles, thanks! \r\n(Now I hate to be elitist but should
    someone tell Mr. Van that he is using tick marks instead of quotation marks on
    his home page and if he's going to use them properly, he should really try hanging
    punctuation?)"
  created: '2005-08-05 17:51:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Don't worry Andi, he'll get the hang of it :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-05 18:36:16'
- author:
    name: Tom Shayne
    picture: 114176
  body: This has to be the most inane topic and premise I have ever read on a blog.
    Wow!
  created: '2008-02-05 01:13:03'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: "... and that makes it special, so thanks for dredging it up, dude. ;P\r\n\r\n-=\xAE=-"
  created: '2008-02-05 12:20:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Tom I can't imagine what you were searching for to find this thread - but
    joining Typophile so you could bring it back to life was not a good move. Sorry
    :-( \r\n\r\nAnyway welcome to Typophile! The only way is up.\r\n"
  created: '2008-02-05 14:53:14'
date: '2005-07-27 21:15:50'
node_type: forum
title: what is the stereotypical behavior and appearance of a designer?

---
