---
author:
  name: dave bailey
  picture: 128124
body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nMy name is David Bailey, I will be a junior at Drexel University
  in Philadelphia this fall, majoring in Graphic Design. The reason for this post
  is regarding a two term co-op experience that I will have this coming fall/winter
  (approx. Sept. 20th to the middle of March).  Drexel has counselors that will help
  us find co-ops next quarter but I'm starting my own search to hopefully land an
  interesting/good co-op job for the begining of the close approaching academic year.
  Drexel's Graphic Design program focuses mainly on the print side of the buisness
  (logo design, branding, page layout, poster/ad design, book cover design and product
  packaging).\r\n\r\nI'm quite in love with my major and the work I do every day in
  class and for that reason would love to find an opportunity to spend my co-op at
  a buisness in NYC, a main hub of design these days. My work has been praised and
  won awards so I'm confident in my abilities, this is why I'm reaching for the best
  jobs out there. So far I've been in contact with RCA Records but I won't know if
  I have an interview for another couple weeks, which is cutting it dangerously close.
  I've attempted contacting a few smaller firms with no response yet. I'm about to
  just start calling the bigger names in the city (Poulin&Morris, Pentagram, etc.)
  to either get a yes or no about interns because I don't want to be stuck without
  a job. I'm quite aware of this being a Typography board but I'm spreading the word
  however I can. Please respond here if you have any sort of connections or work in
  the cit or even have your own buisness there! (or shoot me an email through the
  forums!) Regarding work I've done up to this point in school and on my own you can
  visit this link: http://www.dsinelab.net/dave/index.html  Best regards and thank
  you for taking time to read this. I'm aware this is only my second post here, but
  all the people I met at TypeCon were so friendly and I'm sure there are a plethora
  of designers here that might be able to help!\r\n\r\nAttached are two photos of
  my latest work to entice some help!"
comments:
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Just one bump and then I'll let it die.
  created: '2005-07-28 19:43:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: David, you will have more luck after Labor Day. What happens in the business
    world is the budgets have been spent by Memorial Day (in general) and a lot of
    decision makers go on vacation during the summer months (kids out of school).
    A lot of agencies actually give staff members Fridays off during the summer. The
    approach I think you need to take is, research your potential targets and get
    an e-mail or something in print that arrives just after the Labor Day weekend.
    Don't get discourged and don't give up.
  created: '2005-07-28 21:53:25'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: david, did you talk to any of the presenters that were there at typecon? if
    so, that seems like a good place to start asking about design opportunities in
    NYC.
  created: '2005-07-28 22:39:44'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Thanks for the replies guys!\r\n\r\nDan: Thanks for the heads up, this must
    be why RCA doesn't send samples to the Art Director till mid August to review.
    I'll call people and put them on the spot once it gets closer to Labor Day.\r\n\r\nPaul:
    I didn't get to talk to any of the presenters, besides Yves (who's obviously not
    from NYC ;)) I really wanted to talk to Paula Scher about Pentagram but I was
    in fact a volunteer and was sitting at the door checking badges for a lot of the
    lectures. :-/"
  created: '2005-07-28 22:50:23'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Ah, you were one of the badge nazis. Whose idea was that, anyway? I've been
    to a lot of conferences, dozens, in North America and Europe and elsewhere, and
    I've never been kept out of a room because I didn't have a badge until this year.
    Left mine in the hotel, and missed most of Stefan & Peter's talk, unfortunately.
    Oh well!\r\n\r\nDavid, msg me and I'll hook you up with an art director in the
    city who may be looking for an intern.\r\n\r\nJLT"
  created: '2005-07-29 00:24:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Badge fascism sucks. I've never had that problem at any type conference -
    even though I purposefully avoid displaying my badge as much as possible. Chill.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 00:33:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Then again, I once got into the Negresco by giving the doorman a look like
    I owned the place. It's all headgames. All of it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 00:35:34'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Pretty much. Those big academic / professional conferences that I've worked
    at - the American Sociological Association's annual meeting and, one year, MLA
    - realized, I think, that the goodwill and camaraderie generated by allowing friends
    / kids / spouses into the meetings and not insisting on some kind of badge at
    the door was far more valuable than the few bucks lost (I mean really, how many
    of those people are going to buy a badge anyway?). This happened at MLA, of course,
    where the registration was close to $700, and at regional Sociological association
    meetings with about 1000 registrants, where most folks paid about $60 registration,
    so I don't think price is the thing.\r\n\r\nFrom what I understood from talking
    to those kids at the door, it was more Parsons just being very serious about security,
    and not a SoTA thing anyway. Besides, that's so not the character of the organization,
    but I could very much see it as being the character of the school.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    wayyy off topic. David, how do you feel about working for the dark side (and by
    that I mean advertising)? I know a coupla people who might be able to help you."
  created: '2005-07-29 00:59:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it was more Parsons just being very serious about security\r\n\r\nWell
    then it's a good thing I wasn't there with\r\nmy \"Middle-Eastern-Looking\" t-shirt
    after all.\r\n\r\n\"Wait, I'm Armenian - we're Christian!!\"\r\n\r\n> I know a
    coupla people who might be able to help you.\r\n\r\nLike Yoda?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-29 03:46:24'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<em>David, msg me and I\u2019ll hook you up with an art director in the city
    who may be looking for an intern.</em>\r\n\r\nSent an email to you via your email
    addy on Typographica.\r\n\r\n<em>Anyway, wayyy off topic. David, how do you feel
    about working for the dark side (and by that I mean advertising)? I know a coupla
    people who might be able to help you.</em>\r\n\r\nI have no problem working for
    any type of design job that will be interesting and not just making copies all
    day long. I feel my education at Drexel is VERY well rounded but specific enough
    in each area that I'm proficient at whatever I do. I've got about a month now
    to secure a job or else my whole reason for going here is down the drain, I could've
    used the Drexel system but who wants to stay in Philly for a design job when there's
    NYC! (I'm out to experience a new situation for 6 months and that's why I'm doing
    an independent search). So yes, in that many words! ;)"
  created: '2005-07-29 04:39:47'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: David, you might have to work on web pages and not print at some studios,
    don't restrict yourself to just print.
  created: '2005-07-29 22:43:58'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<em>David, you might have to work on web pages and not print at some studios,
    don\u2019t restrict yourself to just print.</em>\r\n\r\nI guess I'm just trying
    to avoid that, I know how to code HTML and CSS by hand if I HAVE to but I really
    don't like doing web design. I get very little satisfaction designing and coding
    webpages, they just don't excite me like say a magazine or a poster orrrr and
    ad. In the end...beggars can't be choosers but I don't know how much I'd learn
    (in the direction I want to go) if I do webdesign for co-op. I completely agree
    though, in that many words ;)"
  created: '2005-07-29 22:54:50'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Oh and JLT has been a big help already, pointing me in a few new directions.
    Still if anyone else wants to chime in, go for it!
  created: '2005-07-29 22:56:11'
- author:
    name: armin
    picture: 110197
  body: "David, finding an internship in NYC can be as daunting as finding an empty
    cab on a rainy day. There are many interns from many local schools that get placed
    through their schools in the better firms. At Pentagram, for example, we have
    interns lined up for the next six months and we look for them much in advance
    and we usually do it through schools \u2013 also, interns are by \"team\" not
    as a whole, meaning that each partner is responsible for hiring their own interns,
    it is not an office wide initiative. \r\n\r\nOther firms may be open to getting
    interns from independent initiatives like yours but it's usually easier when there
    is backing from a school program.\r\n\r\nIn the end, the best thing you can do
    is to call as many design firms as you can, get them to see you regardless of
    them having an opening or not (portfolio critiques can be extremely helpful and
    you will find that they will serve you better than awards or your work being praised).
    Try going through Workbook's directory, http://www.workbook.com/phonebook/ it's
    a great resource for all firms in Manhattan.\r\n\r\nIf you don't want to do web
    design, don't take an internship where you will be asked to do web stuff. You
    won't enjoy it and your employer will not get the best from you. If you like print,
    find a print internship, don't settle for anything you are not passionate about.\r\n\r\nAnd
    remember that it's very competitive. \r\n\r\nOh, and yes, you will make lots of
    copies, mount many presentations and stay late working on making more copies and
    mounting many more presentations. Don't let that deter you, it's a very formative
    experience."
  created: '2005-07-30 03:26:50'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Hey guys, I've just (well...a few hours ago) recieved an email from RCA Records
    and they want to interview me based upon my samples. I'll be heading into the
    city this week to do that. Wish me luck!\r\n\r\nArmin:\r\n\r\nIt's funny cause
    Drexel stresses how awesome their co-op program is, yet their out of Philly contacts
    are limited or none (only surrounding PA really and it's even worse for designers)
    I heard nothing but mediocre reactions from my classmates who are using the system,
    two other girls in my major who are ver skilled are working at Comcast and Aetna
    but I want to find a more diverse/creative company. I guess I'm being picky but
    I have a vision and I'm doing my damndest to be where I want to be (NYC) and get
    what I want (some sort of creative print co-op). Understood about Pentagram, I
    figured that they would already have a system set up. I have a list of more people
    I would like to contact the beginning of next week from talking with JLT and by
    doing my own research/talking with John Langdon.\r\n\r\nThanks for the link, I'll
    check that out...the hardest part is going to be finding a place to stay for 6
    months in the city, probably by myself.\r\n\r\nThe competative nature doesn't
    bother me, I'm going to talk to a few professors before I go to my interview next
    week and have them help me out. I'm very confident in my work like stated in my
    first post, but not overly confident that I'm not open for suggestion (after all
    I've only been doing this for barely two years!)\r\n\r\nI'm not asking to be lead
    designer or anything but I'd like to get something constructive out of this co-op,
    paid or not paid, I can afford to work somewhere that isn't paid if the time is
    worth it! I'm out to learn because I love what I do and if that isn't good enough
    reason to strive for the best then I don't know what is! One of the seniors who
    just graduated got me in contact with RCA. She said her experience was awesome,
    she got real work to do, the people were nice to work with and she got to meet
    some bands, which can't be complained about!\r\n\r\nAnyways I'll let everyone
    know how it goes at RCA. I'm still going to be contacting other people as backup
    even though this job is exactly what I'm looking for! I'll go bananas if I get
    it! :D\r\n\r\n-Dave"
  created: '2005-07-30 05:24:39'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "For what it's worth, email is much better than a phone call. It's much easier
    for me to follow a link in an email (or look at a PDF in an email) and make an
    assessment, than to screen someone over the phone and decide whether to have them
    come in. Unsolicited post cards and small portfolios are also great. The days
    of the giant book drop off are gone, and for good reason.\r\n\r\nBest of luck."
  created: '2005-07-30 07:52:55'
- author:
    name: armin
    picture: 110197
  body: "> <em>For what it\u2019s worth, email is much better than a phone call.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    e-mail is usually a good way to contact principals and creative directors \u2013
    by \"call\" I meant \"contact somehow\". I would only recommend you call first
    (hopefully you'll get a nice receptionist willing to divulge the information)
    to find out who to send an e-mail to. It's better than sending an e-mail to info@companyx.com
    and addressing it \"To whom it may concern\". Once you send the e-mail, tell them
    you WILL call them in x days to follow up, and then call them."
  created: '2005-07-30 13:41:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> email is much better than a phone call.\r\n\r\nHear, hear.\r\n\r\nTo me,
    phone calls are most useful if you're hiding something.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-07-30 17:11:59'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Josh! Why didn''t you just find me! I would''ve snuck you in. '
  created: '2005-07-30 17:17:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: David, good luck with your interview. -- I think it is great that the community
    here is so willing to share information. Makes me smile.
  created: '2005-07-30 17:17:46'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Awesome, I thank you all once again for the added info! I just figured that
    emails might get ignored in certain situations, but that's a good tip armin about
    telling them you'll follow up in X amount of days!\r\n\r\nI'm going to talk to
    one of my professors who runs a Professional Practice class before I go on the
    interview so that I'm 100% prepared but I'd appreciate any tips you guys have!
    I've never really gone on one before, but these are my thoughts:\r\n\r\n1. Have
    questions to ask about what the job/internship will entail.\r\n2. Research/know
    information about the respective company and what they do.\r\n3. More questions
    about the actual company.\r\n4. Dress appropriately, I don't own a suit or anything
    but have heard that interviews for design jobs aren't as formal as some other
    jobs in how you should dress. I figure some nice dressy pants and a matching collared
    shirt with some decent shoes, not sneakers!\r\n5. Be confident and friendly.\r\n6.
    Send a thank you note for the interview after the fact.\r\n\r\nWhat else? :D\r\n\r\n-Dave"
  created: '2005-07-30 18:19:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Don't forget to shake their hand and look them in the eye as you talk.
  created: '2005-07-30 18:23:31'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<em>Don\u2019t forget to shake their hand and look them in the eye as you
    talk.</em>\r\n\r\nNo doubt, I guess I consider that a given the way my parents
    brought me up!"
  created: '2005-07-30 19:35:04'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: You'd be surprised how few people can even manage those simple things.
  created: '2005-07-30 19:58:00'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<em>You\u2019d be surprised how few people can even manage those simple things.</em>\r\n\r\nVery
    true, I've got this complex about dealing with people my age for that exact reason.
    A lot of my friends are older and that way I don't have to deal with so much drama,
    if that's a good way to describe it."
  created: '2005-07-30 20:15:23'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 7. Provide references with your cover letter without having to be asked for
    them. Don't just say "references available upon request."
  created: '2005-08-01 05:20:51'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<em>7. Provide references with your cover letter without having to be asked
    for them. Don\u2019t just say \u201Creferences available upon request.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nDo
    you think professors are ok for this? Or are we talking about old bosses?"
  created: '2005-08-01 05:54:07'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: I'm saying always provide references. But you definitely want to get permission
    before you include someone as a reference. Professors are pretty much expected
    if you're a student and professional references (boss or freelance client) are
    definitely a bonus.
  created: '2005-08-01 06:13:58'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\n\"What else? :D\"\r\n\r\nif they say good luck \u2014 they say \"no.
    you are not going to join our team\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n---------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm young. So what? I'm going to have a huge internship. And my icon will last
    a day or two + -"
  created: '2005-08-01 06:51:16'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<em>I\u2019m saying always provide references. But you definitely want to
    get permission before you include someone as a reference. Professors are pretty
    much expected if you\u2019re a student and professional references (boss or freelance
    client) are definitely a bonus.</em>\r\n\r\nI guess the reason I asked if professors
    are ok is because I'm looking at my resume and my only substantial job (in time
    period) was working at a supermarket for 4 years. I'm currently doing work for
    John Langdon and have been for a couple months, I suppose I'll put him in there
    and the head of my Graphic Design program, along with a professor I've had for
    4 classes (all provided they agree to it).\r\n\r\n<em>if they say good luck \u2014
    they say \u201Cno. you are not going to join our team\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nhmm...thanks?
    i guess. I'm going on the positive attitude towards this whole thing! Oh and no
    need to state that you're young in your signature; it's not your age that matters,
    it's your skill and how you carry yourself/your maturity level. :)"
  created: '2005-08-01 07:05:51'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\"What else? :D\"\r\n\r\nif they offer something else \u2014 say \"no. thank
    you\".\r\n\r\n\r\n\"it\u2019s not your age that matters, it\u2019s your skill
    and how you carry yourself/your maturity level. :)\"\r\n\r\nthat is what I'm saying.
    Yes, I'm young. so what?\r\n\r\n\r\n\"I\u2019m going on the positive attitude
    towards this whole thing\"\r\n\r\nof course. you need to think about everything,
    anything.  this is \"how you carry yourself/your maturity level.\"\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\nand
    of course \u2014 good luck!\r\n\r\n---------------------------\r\nYes, I'm young.
    So what? I'm going to have a huge internship. And my icon will last a day or two
    + -"
  created: '2005-08-01 07:31:45'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<em>that is what I\u2019m saying. Yes, I\u2019m young. so what?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    trying to say that you don't need to tell everyone you're young, because it doesn't
    matter! Act like an adult/professional and you'll get treated like an adult/professional.
    :) (It's so hard to explain things on the internet, it's all in good intentions
    on my part, from one 'young' designer to another!)\r\n\r\nThanks! (Oh and I didn't
    see any sort of site or link to any of your work. I'm just curious to see what
    you're up to and what you've done. Shoot me an email through Typophile or post
    up cause I'm interested!)\r\n\r\n-Dave"
  created: '2005-08-01 08:10:14'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\"Thanks!\"\r\n\r\nYou're welcome.  \r\n\r\n\r\n\"(Oh and I didn\u2019t see
    any sort of site or link to any of your work. I\u2019m just curious to see what
    you\u2019re up to and what you\u2019ve done. Shoot me an email through Typophile
    or post up cause I\u2019m interested!)\"\r\n\r\nI don't have any sort of site
    or link.  Maybe I'll post soon (I'm on the way to LA to see my sister \u2014 3
    weeks; after that NY to see my bros.,)"
  created: '2005-08-01 22:42:14'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t have any sort of site or link. Maybe I\u2019ll post soon
    (I\u2019m on the way to LA to see my sister \u2014 3 weeks; after that NY to see
    my bros.,)</em>\r\n\r\nHave a safe trip!"
  created: '2005-08-02 01:22:06'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "David \u2014 still here? what do you want to know? see? ask? \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 17:49:06'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: David, in your interview don't just promote yourself, but ask about their
    business (do research if you have time), issues they have and promote yourself
    not just as a talent but as a team member.
  created: '2005-08-08 22:04:08'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Hi all, I didn't want to bump this quite yet but seeing as how you're interested!
    I had my interview at RCA Records in Times Square on Thursday and it went EXTREMELY
    well! They hadn't interviewed anyone else and really liked my work. They'll let
    me know this week if I got it! It was a surprisingly small office for such a large
    company. I interviewed with the Creative and Video Manager then there are 2 ADs,
    2 Freelance Designers and interns. The woman who I interviewed with was really
    laid back and easy to talk to. She asked how many days I wanted to work and told
    me what I'd be doing for work, 90% design and 10% administrative but that they
    wouldn't make me do anything that they wouldn't do. No office bitch work ;) I
    asked questions about what went on in the office, who handled certain tasks, how
    many jobs they had going at once and about the record label in general. I was
    told that they would give me as much work as I could handle so that's exciting.
    If this fails for some odd reason I'll be pursuing your help more in the next
    week or so!\r\n\r\n-Dave"
  created: '2005-08-09 03:10:23'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "I got the job at RCA Records! I'm so excited right now. It's not paid so
    I'll have to find a part time job for when I'm not working (~3 days a week) but
    this is AMAZING! So excited!\r\n\r\n-Dave"
  created: '2005-08-10 02:40:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Congratulations, Dave! Good Luck taking your own bite out of the apple.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    figured the cliche in this instance would be forgivable.</em>"
  created: '2005-08-10 04:22:44'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nCongratulations!  Sounds like a great internship!  I hope they
    let you desing some rad CD covers!"
  created: '2005-08-10 07:33:37'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Dave, I hope it works out for you. Media like Columbia House and RCA are nortoriously
    cheap, so I'm not suprised they took you on. Places to live are either Queens
    or Brooklyn and you will find part time employment in retail. It will allow flexible
    hours. Get to know the subway system and do a lot of walking. This is a walking
    city.
  created: '2005-08-10 12:46:28'
date: '2005-07-28 04:42:51'
files:
- filename: whole.kit.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/whole.kit.jpg
- filename: outside.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/outside.jpg
- filename: inside.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/inside.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Please Help Me Find An Graphic Design Internship In NYC

---
