---
author:
  name: enne_son
  picture: 109487
body: "John Hudson / \r\nDecember 6 2004  / Leagato & points\r\n... [[readerability|reader-ability]]
  so far outweighs [[readability]] as a factor in reading that insisting on addressing
  the readability in typeface design is like trying to say that all shoes should be
  designed primarily to make walking easier, as if walking were difficult...\r\n\r\nTue,
  2005-07-26 12:34 / Shinn / Hrant challenge\r\n... the mass of everyday experiential
  evidence indicates that readerability matters much more to the reading process than
  the readability of what is read...\r\n\r\n2005-07-27 23:33 / Shinn / Hrant challenge\r\n...
  before we can meaningfully debate the readability of typeface design, we need to
  have a reasonable appreciation of the typical ability of the reader, which I maintain
  is very high indeed....\r\n\r\n Thu, 2005-07-28 11:16 / Shinn / Hrant challenge\r\n...my
  theory that readerability is the dominant factor in reading is based on my experience
  designing for multiple writing systems. The variety of h\r\n\r\n Thu, 2005-07-28
  17:20 / Shinn / Hrant challenge\r\n... readerability is really what makes the immense
  richness of typography possible; if reading were difficult and required the designer\u2019s
  attention to be completely focused on maximising readability, there would probably
  only be two or th\r\n\r\n\r\nI think it is apt to insist that the typical ability
  of the average reader  is very high and makes the immense richness of typography
  possible, but I think it is a mistake to oppose readerability and readability. John,
  you do this with phrases like 'so far outweighs' and 'matters much more' and 'is
  the dominant factor'. \r\n\r\nPhenomenologically speaking, the two must go hand
  in hand: we can't read what is unreadable. Or to say the same thing differently
  we are not able to read what is not able to be read. I suspect we tend to forget
  that, in normal everyday use, readability is a gross measure. Writing in an illegible
  hand is unreadable.\r\n\r\nIn perceptual processing terms I see the reader's ability
  as primarily twofold.\r\n1) an ability to see many (even eccentric) varieties of
  a letter as a given letter (for example a Raffia A as an a);\r\n2) an ability to
  visually integrate ensembles of orthographically regular clusters of stimulus units
  (letters on a page) into familiar, object-like, perceptually molar, sense units.\r\nBoth
  involve perceptual learning, and the second ability is underdeveloped in people
  with dislexia. \r\nThe perceptual learning underlying reading ability has critical
  neurological learning components, extending through the multiple layers of the visual
  cortex up to an area that has been identified by magnetic resonance imagining as
  the visual word form area (VWFA) in the psychological literature.\r\n\r\nIt has
  been demonstrated that the spatial frequency channel used in reading is one in which,
  what I've called role-architectural components (and how they combine), are the grist
  for the perceptual processing in reading (and letter recognition) mill. This means:
  stems, bowls, counters, cross-bars, diagnols, and how they join. In typographical
  terms this is the province of letterform construction. So I would say that 'contstruction'
  'outweighs' / 'matters more than' contrast manipulation--'is the dominant factor'--in
  basic reader-ability and gross readability.\r\n\r\nI think contrast manipulation
  (and spacing) affects the level in the visual cortex just below the level at which
  'role archiectural statistics' are compiled and integrated. This is a level where
  lateral inhibition and facilitation operate. This, I submit, corresponds to Hrant's
  subconscious level of reading and is still a bit of a dark area for empirical research.
  But issues of positive or negative noise and cue-value enhancement, are critical
  here. (For background on these perceptions, slog through to my Typo#13 contribution.)
  Much of the Typophile discussion about the finer points of readability are relevant
  to this level of processing. And it is important, because too much superfluous spiking
  in neurological impulse terms affects the 'effortlessness' experience in reading;
  effects the subconscious perception of 'transparency'. \r\nHrant makes a case against
  chirography in 'a priori' conceptual terms: the priority chirography gives to the
  shape-wise integrity of the black cannot (IHHO) logically meet the demands of total
  notan. (absolute notan is presumed--erroneously?--to be good for bouma integrity.)
  \r\nI prefer to deal with the chirography question in functional anatomical terms.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
  we need to distinguish gross readability ([g]readability) and fine readability ([f]readability).
  Chirographically regular fonts are wonderfully [g]readable; but ideological consequential
  chirography (rigourously executed in practical terms) is perhaps anti-progress in
  [f]readability terms.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: BartvanderGriendt
    picture: 109896
  body: "Thoroughly written, Peter. Thanks for the abundance of neurological insight
    into reading.  \r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nMy
    work is a game. A very serious game [M.C. Escher]"
  created: '2005-08-04 17:15:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, great stuff.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nFootwear is actually an incredibly strong
    parallel to type (much more so than something like architecture). Comfortable
    shoes are important in proportion to the distance attempted. It's easy to walk
    5 yards (a poster) in virtually anything. But it's hard to walk 5 miles (a book)
    in anything but really well-designed walking shoes - and these tend to be less
    stylish. No matter how sexy they are, when the shoes aren't good enough for walking
    long distances, you're liable to give up before you get to where you want to be.
    That subvisible, long-haul, subconscious stuff is the relevance of readability,
    not the ability to decipher individual letters given many seconds, and certainly
    not how pretty we think certain shapes (chirography) are.\r\n\r\nDismissing the
    relevance of readability is dismissing the craft of type design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Batya
    body: "Since I cannot design type, and am something less than a novice in this
      area, will someone please take me by the hand and recommend a font for a long
      walk/book?\r\nWe have a small publishing house and I want to offer the best
      font for a long read.\r\nHelp!\r\nBatya"
    created: '2005-08-11 16:23:22'
  created: '2005-08-04 18:12:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I for one never dismissed readability. I completely agree with Peter: we
    cannot read what is unreadable. My point is that what is readable is vast and
    varied and not characterised by a single approach to the design of letterforms.
    This is why I consider readability to be a prerequisite for type design, just
    as it is for reading, and not a design goal. Peter says that phenomenologically
    readerability and readability must go hand in hand. To which I now counter that
    type design and readability must go hand in hand too. If you have not got readability,
    you have not got type design, just a collection of unintelligible abstract forms.
    Readability is the sine qua non of type design. If you set out to design a typeface
    and you succeed in making it readable, congratulations, you''ve achieved the prerequisite.
    Now what?'
  created: '2005-08-05 08:54:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>but ideological consequential chirography (rigourously executed in practical
    terms) is perhaps anti-progress in [f]readability terms.</em>\r\n\r\nCan you give
    some example of what you mean by 'ideological consequential chirography'? Noordzij
    seems to come closer than anyone to an ideological stance on chirography. Is this
    what you mean?"
  created: '2005-08-05 08:59:55'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, I can't think of any type designer who is ideologically committed to
    the principl of sticking rigorously to the hand when it comes to contrast manipulation,
    or even when it comes to the logic of construction. Even Gerrit Noordzij. (Noordzij's
    formalisms claim no more than being convenient reference dimensions for a precise
    gauging of stroke contrast and glyph construction: one can get a good handle on
    Hrant's Paphos J by analying how it violates the type of stroke that a swept object
    or moving front proceeding in translation or with rotation might produce.) My
    goal in writing the sentence you asked about was to give Hrant's dictum 'chirography
    is anti-readibility'a less extreme expression. Doing so produces a judgement I
    can live with, but one which perhaps describes a case for which there is no exemplification
    (to my knowledge), in other words, a straw man (or woman).\r\n\r\nWhen I said
    'phenomenologically readerability and readability must go hand in hand' I meant
    a 'must' of phenomenological necessity, not a prescriptive 'must'. Readerability
    and readability are partners in one and the same perceptual subject-object equation.
    Your 'to which I now counter' sentence doesn't counter but adds to my thought.\r\n\r\nThe
    range of what is comfortably readable is vast and varied. Nevertheless, optimizing
    a type for smooth flow through the visual cortex and for effortless bouma-formation
    is very much like optimizing a type  for high-quality on-screen implementation--the
    kind of thing you no doubt experienced with Cleartype. In both cases a kind of
    rasterization occurs and squelching / averaging mechanisms operate.\r\n\r\nI also
    want to float this notion: it isn't type per se that's readable, it is the texts
    we produced with them. Characters in a font can be legible, and legibilit is a
    threshold issue, but only blocks of text can be readable, and there are degrees
    of readability."
  created: '2005-08-05 13:38:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Characters in a font can be legible, and legibility is a threshold issue,
    but only blocks of text can be readable, and there are degrees of readability.\r\n\r\nA
    level between individual letters and blocks of text is indivivual words. Clearview
    has tested as more legible or readable--I'm not sure what applies--than the FHWA
    Series E modified (I think that's it) for individual words on a sign. This is,
    I believe, a matter of both letter form and spacing. \r\n\r\nBut blocks of text
    do have their own demands. Matthew Carter critiquing a text face at TypeCon: \"Type
    designers design really not in Fontographer or whatever, but in Quark.\" The idea
    being that you need to print out masses of text to really assess a text font.\r\n\r\nI
    agree with Peter that there are degrees of readability. \r\n\r\nJohn, are you
    really holding that once a certain degree of readability is achieved, there is
    not anything a designer can do on this issue? \r\n\r\nTo me there are degrees
    of readability, which I think of as how inviting the text block is, and how fatiguing
    it is. For example, I think a page of text in Helvetica is readable, but the same
    text in Times New Roman a lot more readable. I think it would prove less fatiguing,
    quicker to read, and with fewer mistakes.\r\n\r\nOnce you are on the level of
    Times New Roman, I admit the differences between text faces as far as readibility
    may be small, but I still think they are present, and significant enough to be
    worthy of work by designers. \r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n    "
  created: '2005-08-05 14:49:40'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I said: \"I can\u2019t think of any type designer who is ideologically committed
    to the principle of sticking rigorously to the hand when it comes to contrast
    manipulation, or even when it comes to the logic of construction. Even Gerrit
    Noordzij.\r\n\r\nI can perhaps think of type designers who seem to be de facto
    oriented to 'chiro-referentiality' at a contrast_manipulation or at a logic_of_construction
    level in specific designs or in their body of work.\r\n\r\nWould Hrant want to
    extend his anti-[f]readability claim to chiro-referentialists? Probably. His reason
    is notan. For Hrant's 'notan' I would substitute appropriate_cue-value_toward_visual_wordform_resolution.
    Counters and  the shapes evoked between letters (the white); stems, crossbars,
    ascenders, diagonals (the black) must have  a proper salience in real-word situations
    so their appropriate cue-value toward visual wordform resolution in perceptual
    processing is optimally realized. Does chiro-referentiality obstruct that? I think
    not. Notan in type I regard more as an aesthetic referential axis than a functional
    requirement. \r\n\r\nI can however see some sense in Hrant's use of 'notan' when
    I consider that the salience of any cue-value bearing component (white or black)
    must not be so disproportionate relative to any other (black or white) that it
    ruptures the visual integrity of the word image or bouma. Cue-value bearing components
    must blend into, or subserve, the bouma or word image and not be like a blemish
    the percptual system stumbles over or 'reads' as an 'attractor'\r\n\r\nI think
    in practical terms, the competant type designer is constantly evaluating and adjusting
    salience vis a vis bouma-integrity. There is a small body of psychological research
    evaluating the cue-value-richness of role architectural zones, but most of it
    relates to individual letter recognition rather than visual wordform resolution."
  created: '2005-08-05 15:28:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ... Paphos J ...\r\n\r\nExactly. What I've done there is take the superficial
    aesthetic appeal of chirography (its redeeming quality), but prevent it from exerting
    its damaging modularity. Is it working? Well, Gary Munch -an expert chirographer-
    thought I was \"coming around\" when he saw it... Only a guru at GN's theories
    can see the violations. I can't even see them - probably because I'm not looking.
    So I think it's safe to say that laymen -the whole point- have no problem with
    this, and I feel they actually benefit.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI am quite confident
    that chirography is anti-readability. The two pieces of the readability puzzle
    that I'm still missing however are: the relevance of \"cue-value structures\"
    (where I'm following your lead); and the true nature of familiarity (where there
    seems to be very little to follow). The bouma-based nature of reading though makes
    superb sense; and a general admission of that would make the field of typography
    so much more comfortable with itself. That's what it's all about anyway - virtually
    none of us saving lives or anything.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-05 16:27:28'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "The Giampa Challenge\r\n\r\nCHOOSING A TYPEFACE\r\n\r\nIf it turns out the
    most readable typeface is also \"ugly\" which I suspect is the direction this
    is taking, that typeface will not be used by designers, (I hope) and therefore
    will not even be read, (I hope) therefore one must consider the readability of
    the unseen.\r\n\r\nTYPSETTING FAILURES\r\n\r\nAny type set poorly, or is that
    badly, (Take a risk) can be made unreadable. Rather a good jocky riding a slower
    horse, than a bad jocky riding the fastest.\r\n\r\nIs there a moral to the story?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-08-05 17:29:15'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Hrant, you keep making the bald and sweeping claim "chirography is anti-readablity".
    Do you mean chirography in any form including chirography in the sense of what
    I tried to call chiro-referentiality? And do you mean anti-readability pure and
    simple in any sense of the term readability, or anti-progress in further optimizing
    readability at its high end? And if you mean it in the most sweeping and general
    sense possible, what  makes your confidence that the claim can be sustained in
    even it's baldest form more valid than my suspicion that it needs to be tempered
    and surrounded with a number of qualifications to be sustainable, an more importantly,
    fertile for action and actionable?
  created: '2005-08-05 17:39:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As part of designing Handsome Pro (a fully cursive script) recently, I did
    what I usually do when working on fonts, which is to print out text and hold it
    up to the light, viewing as a mirror image.\r\n\r\nWhile it's not too difficult
    to read text in the Classic version (a high contrast \"pen\" nib), it's quite
    difficult to discern individual characters.\r\n\r\nHowever, I found it almost
    impossible to read the monoline versions of the typeface \"flipped\", which led
    me to marvel at one's ability to read monoline joined script the right way round
    at all! I mean, how are we able to separate the joining strokes from similar \"upstroke\"
    marks within glyphs? Impressive, the power of readerability."
  created: '2005-08-05 18:29:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gerald:\r\n1) There is no \"most readable\" type.\r\n2) Yes, the setting
    of type is more important than the type itself. But in the microcosm of type design,
    the setting is moot. One could also say that the good setting of type is waste
    of time considering all the more pressing needs of the world. How each of us spends
    his time is a balance of what makes us happy versus what other people need, and
    a result of circumstance and genes.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nPeter, that statement is
    sort of a brutal simplification, I admit. But it does contain the important truth.
    I remember recently writing a longer, gentler variant of it, and you liked it
    a lot. What was it?\r\n\r\n> what makes your confidence that the claim can be
    sustained\r\n\r\nI'm not confident it can be \"sustained\"; mostly because I think
    nothing can. What I am confident about is that it makes sense. Practical applications?
    A better \"y\" for Unibody. UC \"A\"s with symmetrical tapering arms. Thousands
    of things.\r\n\r\n> how are we able to separate the joining strokes\r\n> from
    similar \u201Cupstroke\u201D marks within glyphs?\r\n\r\nPeter can attempt a good
    -scientific- explanation of this.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-05 18:57:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Another thought on reading handwriting/scripts:\r\n\r\nI once attended a
    talk by a dance theorist who had asked himself the question \"what's in it for
    the dance audience?\". As part of his research, he discovered that the part of
    the brain which takes care of dancing is activated when you're watching dancing.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    something similar happens when we read handwriting -- we recognize our own actions,
    as it were, which aids comprehension. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-05 19:10:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, are you really holding that once a certain degree of readability
    is achieved, there is not anything a designer can do on this issue?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    saying -- have said repeatedly -- that once a base level of readability is achieved,
    as is achieved in the large and varied collection of what we call text faces,
    the measurable difference in speed and accuracy between different types is minimal
    and insignificant. Hrant introduces the additional criterion of comfort, which
    is partly subjective but also measurable in terms of eye strain, and I think there
    is probably more space, in type design terms, to significantly address this criterion
    than speed or accuracy. But I read a heck of a lot everyday, and there are few
    typefaces that have actually caused comfort problems, so even in this area I think
    that what is readable must be considered vast and varied.\r\n\r\nWhat object to
    in Hrant's programme is his prescriptive and ideological tendency: the implication
    that the demands of readability need to be met by a specific design agenda (his).
    In its most extreme form, this programme becomes simply bizarre with the claim
    that the traditional approaches to type design that produced the huge number of
    highly readable typefaces that we read everyday is actually 'anti-readability'.
    I counter this with the idea of readerability, which explains just how it is possible
    for us to read quickly, accurately and comfortably across a wide range of typefaces
    designed according to a variety of methods, traditions and theories. Whatever
    internal merit Hrant's 'notanal type design' has as a method of designing new
    and culturally progressive typefaces -- and I believe that it has much merit --,
    it cannot be realistically opposed to a straw ideological chirographic method
    that is anti-readability when we have such massively overwhelming evidence that
    people can and do read types that are both more and less chirographic.\r\n\r\nIt
    is enough, I think, to make the point that type design does not have to be chirographic,
    and to help designers to realise that understanding the mechanics of reading liberates
    them to think about the construction of letters, their light and dark patterns
    of structure and contrast, in new and creative ways. This is a significant insight
    and one worth embracing. It is neither realistic nor helpful to try to make the
    further claim that type design <em>must not</em> be chirographic, and that chirographic
    design is in any significant way less readable that notanal design. We have the
    opportunity, in the understanding of how we read, to <em>extend</em> the vocabulary
    of type design, to add to the variety of ways in which letterforms are designed.
    Trying to <em>replace</em> all other ways of designing type with one ideologically
    correct design method is a vain revolutionary project."
  created: '2005-08-05 21:12:11'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: What you don't address is subject. If a mechanic who is interested in how
    to adjust a widget on a Lexus will care less about the legibility of the type
    as long as he gets the information, but if the same mechanic came to typophilia
    and even saw the word glyph he might be asleep before Hrant finished his explination.
    Content and Audience and how its written, 5 cent words or 10 dollar words.
  created: '2005-08-05 21:24:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, we think we're reading comfortably because we haven't seen anything
    better. People used to think horses were the ideal method of transportation. Furthermore,
    a lot of people have a lesser ability to read (like youngsters), and every little
    bit of improvement helps them finish that book, while enjoying it more (being
    more comfortable). Another factor is deficient environments, like reading on the
    metro, or in poor light. It is not casual reading, but reading in the \"fringes\"
    that we need to worry about.\r\n\r\nGood type design is about subtlety after all.
    Saying readability doesn't matter is a little bit like saying we don't need more
    (text) fonts.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nThe reason I oppose chirography (and only in text
    face design - let the distinction be clear) is not because it makes people miserable.
    In fact it makes a number of type designers quite happy, and most other people
    are oblivious anyway. I opposed chirography as a matter of principle, as a proponent
    of cultural progress. And I detest the continued, convenient denial of its deficiencies,
    and the ideological lethargy of making yet more chirographic fonts.\r\n\r\nI don't
    mind somebody saying \"I make chirographic fonts because they sell better, I know
    how to make them, I think they're pretty, and my buddies pat me on the back for
    it.\" It would make me sad, but not angry. What makes me angry is when somebody
    says \"Nothing else matters.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-05 21:40:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If a mechanic who is interested ...\r\n\r\nIndeed. We Read Best What We
    Want To Read Most.  ;-)\r\n\r\nBut:\r\n1) Not everything we read is always absolutely
    interesting. Sometimes we have to read something uninteresting, or semi-interesting.
    And discomfort might make us give up. The typeface is as important as the content
    is uncompelling.\r\n2) That's still not an excuse for a type designer not to care
    about making the experience as <strong>comfortable</strong> as possible. It's
    our duty.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-05 21:45:49'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, I would be happy if I could get you to see that there is a world of
    difference between 1) saying that chirography is cultural progress-inhibiting
    in improved type-functionality terms and 2) saying that chirography is [intrinsically]
    anti-readability. The one I find an interesting proposition, the other fatally
    flawed if readability is to have anything like the sense we attach to it in normal
    everday usage.\r\n\r\nNick, I'm intrigued by your observations about flipped type,
    especially the detail about not being able to discern indivdual characters while
    still being able to read the text. I want to check this out for myself and think
    it through in perceptual processing terms. \r\n\r\nJohn, I think your statement
    that \"understanding the mechanics of reading liberates [type designers] to think
    about the construction of letters, their light and dark patterns of structure
    and contrast, in new and creative ways\" is entirely apt."
  created: '2005-08-05 22:50:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I should add one other comment about my readerability argument. It is in
    essence a defensive argument, intended to preserve the creative space around traditional
    type design even while expressing interest in new approaches based on a growing
    understanding of the reading process. I want to be able to embrace both chirographic
    and notanal type design as equally legitimate methods, and the easiest way to
    do this is to point out that both presuppose readability and that this readability
    is generously provided for by readerability. If our pattern recognition skills
    were not so good, the scope of what is readable would be much narrower; but it
    is so good, and the scope of what is readable, especially if one considers all
    the diversity of type styles and handwriting across all the world's scripts, is
    huge.\r\n\r\nIt may seem from my last post, that I am specifically positing the
    readerability argument contra Hrant. But I should be clear that I would use the
    same argument to defend the creative space of traditional type design against
    other challenges. Consider, for example, this not-unlikely scenario:\r\n\r\nCognitive
    psychologists produce the results of empirical studies that show that loose letterfitting
    results in higher reading speeds due to greater accuracy in word recognition and
    hence fewer regressions. Hrant's response is predictable, since it is the response
    he has made several times to empirical studies that seem to contradict what he
    believes: 'My theory of the notan-bouma relationship predicts that tigher letterfitting
    is more beneficial to reading; therefore, there must be something wrong with your
    studies.' My response would be the same as I have made to Hrant: readerability
    makes it <em>unnecessary</em> to distort general typographic practice in response
    to such results, since it is evident that we read well enough in the current accepted
    range of letterfitting. Like Hrant's notanal type design, such results may broaden
    the accepted range of practice, or may provide a basis for edge cases of typography
    such as design for low resolution or information-critical typesetting such as
    pharmaceutical labelling. They would not constitute grounds for overthrowing 550+
    years of experience, any more than Hrant's theories. This, to me, is the value
    of having a sensible appreciation of readerability: it allows one to be both generous
    to the incorporation of new ideas in type design while not having to sign up to
    revolutionary programmes."
  created: '2005-08-06 01:32:20'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Cognitive psychologists produce the results of empirical studies that show
    that loose letterfitting results in higher reading speeds due to greater accuracy
    in word recognition and hence fewer regressions.\" \r\n\r\nIs this a possible
    scenario John, or have such results actually been produced? If the latter, how
    is looseness gauged?"
  created: '2005-08-06 01:52:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I want to be able to embrace both chirographic and\r\n> notanal type design
    as equally legitimate methods\r\n\r\nYes, the former more for display type, the
    latter more for text. More than that, sorry, I want a lot things too that I can't
    have. BTW, \"notanic\", please.\r\n\r\n> If our pattern recognition skills were
    not so good\r\n\r\nThere is no \"good\" and \"bad\". Our pattern recognition skills,
    not to mention our heuristic cognition, are <strong>fallible</strong>, especially
    in the parafovea. That's all you need to consider in concluding that good technique
    in type design matters. It's not all cultural expression.\r\n\r\n> Cognitive psychologists
    produce the results of empirical\r\n> studies that show that loose letterfitting
    results in higher\r\n> reading speeds due to greater accuracy in word recognition\r\n>
    and hence fewer regressions.\r\n\r\nWhat would be predictable is what I foresaw
    when Kevin revealed that he's testing for letterspacing: that the same tired old
    flawed testing methods would remain stuck in shallow immersion, and continue to
    produce flawed data that will be misinterpreted yet again to support the half-world
    of parallel-letterwise decipherment. And the little tell-tale blips that indicate
    a problem with the Master Plan will continue to be brushed under the carpet. Basically,
    a waste of time and money, not to mention damaging to proper appreciation and
    application of typography. I have always explained <strong>why</strong> this is
    the case. If you keep seeing my stance as \"it must be wrong because it contradicts
    me\", you're just not paying attention. The PL model fails to explain too many
    things (like typos, regressions, skipped words). It also fails to make sense in
    the context of how humans think. It is half the story. And the boring, obvious
    half. But you're saying none of it matters anyway... You just want to keep designing
    the way you like to. That's not craft.\r\n\r\nBTW, you will not reduce regressions
    (because that's the mind's inherent heuristic correction mechanism). You might
    increase saccade length. And you won't do that either.\r\n\r\n> how is looseness
    gauged?\r\n\r\nThe only practical meaning I think would be \"looser than practitioners
    anecdotally believe is optimal\". Kevin and some others would <strong>love</strong>
    to disprove both centuries of anecdotal evidence as well as my theories. For that
    I don't blame them though. I do however blame them for not harboring enough self-doubt,
    and not using their instincts -or at least those of others- to better effect.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-06 02:44:51'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nI have solution for the time impaired. Why don't we teach the
    world to use \"shorthand\".\r\n\r\nProbably you are not aware that great minds
    have already figured this out. I find the conclusion a little confusing but maybe
    you could explain it to all of us.\r\n\r\n\"Florida Pennysavers\"http://www.floridapennysavers.com/newsmb/prepress.htm\r\n\r\nTYPEFACES
    - SERIF OR SANS SERIF?\r\n\r\nSans Serif typefaces are the best choice for news-print
    reproduction. They easily reproduce with desired clarity and readability. Type
    faces with thin or delicate serifs and strokes, and non-uniform character thickness,
    should be avoided.\"\r\n\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\r\nhttp://www.tarleton.edu/~unews/marcomtypography.html\r\nTYPE
    FACE SELECTION\r\n\r\nSan serif type faces are neither more nor less readable
    than serif type faces. Readability is enhanced by selecting common type faces,
    such as Helvetica, Times, Garamond, Palatino, and Univers, to name just a few.
    Common type faces have become common type faces because of their versatility and
    readability. And, because they are common, their letter shapes are immediately
    recognizable to most readers\r\n\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\r\nI
    don't have my references with me, but my reading suggests that there is\r\nactually
    a loss of readibility with increasing point size after a certain\r\npoint, just
    as there is with decreasing point size.\r\n\r\nOptimum readability is 10-11 pts
    with most serif type faces. The reason for\r\nthe recent popularity of 12 point
    has more to do with the use of computers than\r\nwith readability on the printed
    page. Most monitors display 12 point text\r\nmuch better than they display 10
    or 11 point. Of course, monitors also\r\ndisplay sans-serif better than serif
    type faces, which may account for\r\nthe recent trend toward the readable sans
    serif Ariel, too.\r\n\r\nThe main point is, it depends on where the text will
    be read. If you\r\nplan to display the text on a monitor, such as with html or
    help systems,\r\n12 point sans serif is more readable. If you plan to print the
    text on\r\npaper and deliver it in the traditional manner 10 or 11 point serif
    is\r\nmore readable ... to the point of actually increasing reading spead\r\nfor
    the average reader.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nMisti Anslin Tucker\r\n\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\u2022\r\n\r\nIf
    this has not put your mind to rest, let me put yours to sleep.\r\n\r\nI have summarized
    conclusions made by your kindred spirits sharing your concerns. Although all of
    their conclusions sound, in my opinion, idiotic. \r\n\r\n1.) Use only San Serif
    Types.\r\n2.) Use only Serif Types or San Serif Types.\r\n3.) Use only Helvetica,
    Times, Garamond, Palatino, and Univers.\r\n4.) Use only 10 to 11 point serif types.\r\n5.)
    Use only 12 point serif types for monitors.\r\n\r\nThese 5 customers classes are
    \ waiting for your typefaces. Make that four. They already have Helvetica, Times,
    Garamond, Palatino, and Univers. Pardon me, make that three customers, they already
    have 10 and ll point for print. Make that two classes, they alread have and 12
    point for monitors.\r\n\r\nThese people seem as interested in readability as any
    in the forum and make as much sense.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-06 06:22:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Is this a possible scenario John, or have such results actually been
    produced? If the latter, how is looseness gauged?</em>\r\n\r\nIt is a hypothetical
    scenario, but one based on the fact that Kevin Larson, as a result of our group
    discussions in Thessaloniki, has started conducting some tests involving varying
    spacing. I don't know what his procedure is yet, and I have not seen the results,
    but one of his proposed presentations for ATypI was entitled <em>I'm coming for
    your sheep,</em> in reference to the well known Goudy quote. This might suggest
    that his findings favour looser settings.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, there is only
    room on the conference programme for one of his proposed talks, so he has opted
    to present what I understand is the more advanced of his recent research: <em><a
    href=\"http://www.atypi.org/07_Helsinki/30_program/20_main_program/view_presentation_html?presentid=148\">Measuring
    the aesthetics of typography</a>.</em>"
  created: '2005-08-06 07:55:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hrant, I design typefaces using the methods I determine fit for a given project,
    and which of these methods meet your highly idiosyncratic criteria for 'craft'
    isn't a concern. Sometimes a project calls for a more chirographic approach, sometimes
    for a more notanal one, and I've never designed a typeface that was entirely one
    or the other, because my care if for the thing I'm making, not theories or ideology.
    And care for the thing being made is a definition of craft that more craftsmen
    will recognise than yours.
  created: '2005-08-06 08:38:18'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "At the risk of being entirely out of my depth here, I would like to add an
    observation in support of John Hudson's views. A text typeface has a primary function:
    to convey information when used to form words. However, this function, important
    as it is, does not fully define how a typeface should be made.\r\n\r\nI would
    like to make the analogy with food and the art of cooking. The primary function
    of food is to convey nutrition. But cooking defined purely in terms of nutritional
    value is likely to be bland and ultimately unsatisfying. We also know of fad diets
    based on the latest half-baked nutritional theories. People have been producing
    nourishing food for thousands of years, without the need for such theories. No
    doubt science may help us improve our diet, but God forbid that it should replace
    the art of cooking."
  created: '2005-08-06 09:44:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "John, I thought that Hrant had argued in the past that 'advanced' type design
    could increase reader speed by many fold. My view has rather been that the main
    thing is ease or comfort in reading, but maybe Hrant has argued that equally as
    well. I am very skeptical about the possibility of any great increase in speed
    of reading of printed texts. \r\n\r\nIn any case, while the differences between
    good text fonts may not be great on this score, I still think it is well worth
    trying to be on the upper end of ease and comfort in reading. So I don't agree
    that once a threshold is reached, the readability issue should take a back seat--if
    that is indeed your view. \r\n\r\nAnd I agree with Hrant that one of the critical
    factors is the balance of white and black, and spacing. I believe that Frutiger
    long ago said that type designers look more at the white than the black, so Hrant's
    view of the importance of 'notan' is a familiar, and I think accurate view. This
    is confirmed by Clearview, one of whose key properties is that it is somewhat
    less bold than the FHWA gothic it is replacing--also creating more open counters.
    \r\n\r\nAnd I think that the reason book designers stopped so regularly using
    standbys such as Baskerville and Bembo is that the digital versions were too light--an
    issue of balance of black and white. For otherwise the faces are largely the same.
    And they turned to Scala because it hit the black/white and spacing issues in
    a good balance. \r\n\r\nI certainly don't agree with Hrant that the influence
    of the hand is bad, though 'moving front' shapes should be modified because of
    optical considerations.  Nor do I agree that aesthetics is of minor importance
    in a text face, if that is indeed your view, Hrant.\r\n\r\nSo superb comfort and
    ease of reading being a goal for text fonts even after a threshold of good readability
    is reached, yes. And consideration of what the hand would draw, without letting
    it dictate, yes.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-06 15:33:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \"Measuring the aesthetics of typography\"\r\n\r\nI wish I could be there
    for that!  :-(\r\n\r\n> ... does not fully define how a typeface should be made.\r\n\r\nWell
    of course. Who said anything about \"fully\"?\r\nAnything to do with humans is
    deeply gray, always.\r\n\r\nI for one have always said that aesthetics are important,
    yes, even in a text face (William). As I've pointed out before, I have applied
    some proportions to certain glyphs in Patria that I believe actually hurt readability!
    This, to amplify the \"mood\" that I wanted the face to convey. Craft is about
    balance. That said, I do believe the balance between aesthetics and function is
    very different in a text face compared to a display face.\r\n\r\n\"Fully\" is
    an attitude relied upon more by those who\r\nwould dismiss readability (think
    of the Emigre mantra).\r\n\r\n> could increase reader speed by many fold.\r\n\r\n?\r\nMy
    most aggressive estimate has been around 20%. But really, it's not the number,
    it's the principle. BTW, comfort and speed end up having the effect in the end.
    On this Kevin and I agree btw.\r\n\r\n> \u2018moving front\u2019 shapes should
    be modified\r\n> because of optical considerations.\r\n\r\nLet me ask: modified
    how, exactly?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-06 17:25:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Let me ask: modified how, exactly?\r\n\r\nI don't have a general theory,
    but one key thing is for even color. Handwriting of a Roman is going to violate
    this too much in the characters. That's what Jenson and Garamond figured out,
    and modified for even color. Garamond's z as opposed to Jenson's is the most obvious
    example, but such modifications are all over the place. But you are still left
    with a letter form that comes from the pen, and when you try to mess with it too
    much it starts to be less recognizable and readable. "
  created: '2005-08-06 17:53:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you are still left with a letter form that comes from the pen\r\n\r\nAre
    you really?\r\nMy point is: Why bother?\r\n\r\nA lot of my own type design looks
    chirographic... to people wanting to see that. So I think it's all in our heads,
    and the fewer illusions we subscribe to the better our fonts will be.\r\n\r\n>
    it starts to be less recognizable and readable.\r\n\r\nHow do you know this? (I
    mean \"know\" in the loose sense of the word, admittedly.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-06 18:01:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I think it is apt to insist that the typical ability of the average reader
    is very high and makes the immense richness of typography possible,\"\r\n\r\nFresh
    Air. . . And true.\r\n\r\nActually, I feel that the Low Reader is not worth attaining,
    or attending. By low reader, I mean someone who's just \"not up to\" or \"not
    into\" the content of a long document. Then, people who are \"up to\" or \"into\"
    fall into three main categories when it comes to long reading requirements- But
    that's not important! I think of myself  and my like-minded designers as serving
    the highest of the three categories, the Willing & Skilled, the reader who knows
    what they are doing and are doing what they like. The rest, who friggin' cares?
    relatively. While I serve this group of W&S readers, I make the Most Familiar
    Form Possible in the From that Reader Uses. If no such thing exists, and I must
    be sure about this, then I invent, a little. (.). Thus almost none of the above
    applies to long text on screens. I can not, because it is impossible, broaden
    the class of readers to include everyone and then find a proof of  what can help
    them all. Sorry, I guess I'm not a type designer...\r\n\r\n\"\u2018role architectural
    statistics\u2019, \r\n\" bit of a dark area for empirical research\", \r\n\"stems,
    bowls, counters, cross-bars, diagonals, and how they join.\" \r\nAKA: Things (those
    which \"make the letter the letter\" even if the highest possible \"contrast\"
    imaginable destroys all else), the connections between these things, the terminations
    of these things, the intersection of these things and the nothing (s) - if you
    want to get down to the atomic nomenclature/reality of it, this is what we read
    in a hierarchically arranged design of object and space, and it's universal to
    all scripts and readers.\r\n\r\nDo we see word shapes? Absolutely, I.... a....and
    a few more are some of them. ANYONE who does not believe we do Some word shape
    recognition is not to be trusted to understand the main parts of the problem.
    I do not and I don't know any Real type designer ever who said We read MOSTLY
    or read even significantly by \"word shape.\" Just think about it for a second,
    and you know it's not a possible method for Our Script, Ya? Kommen mit me, see?
    Shickkelnickermakenf\xFCsser or Shickkelnicklermakenw\xFCsser would slow all Germans
    to such a pace that nothing'd ever gotten done in Germany... ever....and we know
    that ain't the case, so, proof positive and complete. Chinese on the other hand?
    ANYONE who does not understand the importance of recognizing the physiological
    oneness of the human species when studying the universal methods used in reading
    \ the variety of scripts is not to be trusted to understand the main parts of
    the problem.  \r\n\r\nThe techno-iceburg  that we, as a reading culture, have
    multiple Titanic'd into \u2014 is resolution. \"It's just an iceberg sir...\"
    \"Well Helmsmen, Hit it again, and call all the other ships in the area, let them
    hit it too!\" Matthew and the good skiff Verdana took a safe route around said
    iceberg some years ago now but still they batter away. So, when I hear, \"I\u2019m
    coming for your sheep\", not only do I want to start rounding up shepherd hunters
    (the bounty hunter in \"Raisin' Arizona\", Nicholas Cage's \"brother\" comes to
    mind), and of course the vice squad should be called ;) Microsoft, you see, has
    yet to produce either a test or test results, (or ideally both together with effective
    type and typography), that make their type-related decisions hold any more water
    than plain-old good power-marketing. \r\n\r\nI have great hope though, but Meanwhile,
    da culture has left in another set of skiffs for text messaging, email, buttons,
    \ and a host of short type tasks for low resolution. That is where they \"row\"
    now, not in the long texts sinking on yonder 13th wonder of the world. They don\u2019t
    and will not read books and newspapers, or longer articles, online for more reasons
    than the type, but type remains an icesue to be repeatedly rammed (And for best
    results in the software world, why not use a \"scientific approach\", you end
    up with patents & fonts?) And all the while I hope the bull has at least two,
    \ better three, tails by which the end users can wag that Longhorn. \r\n\r\n *which
    reminds me to ask, with apologies for going off topic ;-. : Does anyone here have
    enough of a ma+h background to know if there is such a thing as an \"imaginary
    imaginary number\" ? I'm working on a high tech symbol font. . . "
  created: '2005-08-06 19:22:19'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "> how is looseness gauged?\r\n\r\nThe reason I asked this is because I think
    fourier transforms provide a relatively stable gauging mechanism. The interesting
    thing is that transforms using the 'bundled' spacing of professionally spaced
    fonts exhibit a characteristic spatial frequency distribution profile along the
    horizontal dimension. \r\n\r\nThe profile is different in detail for each font,
    but similar in structure for the variety of professionally space fonts I checked.
    The profile is different for each font because each font uses cartesian space
    in its own way.\r\nThe profile for professionally spaced fonts shows a high concentration
    of role architectural components in a clearly delimited area around a single peak
    spatial frequency. (In fonts that are generally considered highly readable the
    concentration is high but not superhigh right at the peak frequency. In bodoniesque
    fonts or condensed sans serifs like univers 57 the concentration at the peak spatial
    frequency is significantly higher and the clearly delimited area around the peak
    frequency becomes more compact)\r\n\r\nWhen spacing is loosened or tightened beyond
    a range of about + 3 to -2 qxp tracking units, the spatial frequency distribution
    of role architectural material becomes less compact (more diffuse), shifts to
    slightly higher or lower frequencies, and concentrations at other (competeing)
    spatial frequencies start to assert themselves.\r\n\r\nI will predict that qualified
    tests of perceptual processing efficiency will show an advantage for fonts and
    spacings falling within the spatial frequency distribution profile I described
    for professionally spaced readable fonts.\r\n\r\nThis has an important practical
    consequence: fonts whose proportions and components fall consistently 'on grid'
    in spatial distribution terms will be perceived as less readable by skilled readers
    than fonts whose proportions and key vertical components hover around a rhythmic
    mean.\r\n\r\nWhy is this so? I speculate it is because the visual cortex depends
    on  off-grid information within a relatively narrow spatial frequency band (slightly
    different for each font) to compile it's word form resolutional statistics efficiently
    at a neuronal level, i.e., to ease its perceptual processing task.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-06 22:58:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The rest, who friggin\u2019 cares?\r\n\r\nWell, some people. In fact there's
    certainly more money in research aimed at dyslexics for example than \"normal\"
    readers.\r\n\r\nI myself would instead state that readers who have enough of a
    combination of desire and ability to finish reading something (while not suffering
    undue discomfort) will take care of themselves, and our skills are better used
    to help out all other people/situations (like onscreen reading).\r\n\r\n> ANYONE
    who does not believe we do Some word shape recognition\r\n> is not to be trusted
    to understand the main parts of the problem.\r\n\r\nI don't know about [mis]trust.
    There are people (Like Kevin*) who mean well and have the ability and resources
    to reveal the true nature of reading. We need to help them gain the necessary
    typographic sensitivity (or at least leverage it in others), simply because they
    can help us. We need to get THEM to trust US.\r\n\r\n* BTW, I just encountered
    an interesting parallel to Kevin and me:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/health/3745498.stm\r\n\"He
    said that the methods used were considered controversial by\r\n some archaeologists,
    because they do not find direct evidence\r\n of the medicine in use, but their
    findings were always\r\n corroborated by other experts.\"\r\n\r\nBTW, the whole
    words you're thinking of are what I call the \"Taylor 60\" (which aren't necessarily
    limited to 60). Yes, I agree that these are seen as wholes (it makes perfect sense
    after all), and the blank space's role as delimiter is what makes them stand out.
    They constitute one of the \"blips\" in the imperfect data (see above). But there's
    more. There must be more. It makes more sense to consider the existence of boumas:
    <strong>clusters of letters</strong> that are recognized are wholes. These are
    sometimes words, basically when they're sufficiently short, frequent, and distinctive
    in silhouette (or at least notan).\r\n\r\n> Microsoft, you see, has yet to produce
    either a test or test results ...\r\n\r\nTrue.\r\nBut the good news is that they
    have the people and the money necessary to make it happen for real, <strong>in
    spite</strong> of the \"corporate culture\". Their type people are really our
    best hope.\r\n\r\nAlso, I actually believe that there's a lot of room for improvement
    even within these confines of resolution. I'm not talking about matching print,
    just approaching it. And hey, maybe we can even match it, or pass it! How? The
    screen is dynamic and [potentially more] interactive - maybe we can use that to
    great effect? Think for example of text that's sans in the fovea (where letterwise
    decipherment rules) but serif in the parafovea (where \"binding\" is important),
    with the style switching depending on the reader's fixation point. This is not
    nearly as sci-fi as many other things which have become reality.\r\n\r\n> fourier
    transforms\r\n\r\nYes, that does seem promising.\r\nI for one would love to see
    a well-illustrated essay.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dberlow
    body: "\"they have the people and the money necessary to make it happen \"\r\nREALLY?
      HOW OLD WILL I BE THEN? Or should I be asking how long you plan on working there?
      ;-) My experience of 25 years with companies with \"type in their hearts\" of
      the large variety says you don't get the finest, you want the yes-sir-est and
      the days when cash won type design and quality contests ended in the late 70's. "
    created: '2005-08-07 12:35:13'
  created: '2005-08-06 23:31:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">qualified tests of perceptual processing efficiency\r\n\r\nPerhaps this
    could be configured as a video game, where players get to choose their font at
    the start, and then race round various tracks (aka \"texts\") competing with one
    another for maximum comprehension and reading speed."
  created: '2005-08-07 00:48:59'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "... configured as a video game ...\r\n\r\nSure! why not?\r\n\r\n... a well-illustrated
    essay ...\r\n\r\nSure! why not?\r\n\r\n... or a 'poster'(see: http://www.psych.nyu.edu/pelli/posters.html)\r\n\r\nNow
    all I need to do is lay down $700.00 US to get beyond using the FoveaPro 3.0 demo
    (http://www.reindeergraphics.com/foveapro/) on a different machine in my studio
    every month (I'm on my second--and last--month)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 02:50:53'
- author:
    name: nepenthe
    picture: 109675
  body: "What is the significance of speed reading in this debate? This is when someone
    scans very quickly over the page and can read several times faster than normal.
    Searching the site showed no results of any mention of speed reading technique.
    It seems to me that if someone can learn to read any kind of typeset page very
    quickly, regardless of the typeface, then John's postion on the minimal legibility
    requirement is right, provided the reader brings with him/her sufficient reading
    skills. Why has no on brought this up before?\r\n\r\n(Sorry to throw such a short
    post in the midst of all these great essays!)"
  created: '2005-08-07 03:33:42'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Among the fourier transforms I tried was one comparing the black and white
    in three fonts, a regular serif, a bold sans, and a sans ultrabold. See: http://www3.sympatico.ca/penneson/blk_versus_wht.pdf
    \r\n\r\nIf you look at the meta bold, you will see that the spatial frequency
    distribution profile is similar for both black and white. Not so in the other
    two. For meta bold the black and white are equally valent (equi-valent) in spatial
    frequency disstribution terms. Does this mean only meta bold is in notan? That
    only bold weights with the boldness of meta bold are in notan?\r\n\r\nBut is this
    what we are after when we talk about attending to the white / not prioritizing
    the black? If we are to discuss the concept of notan in the typographical domain
    vis a vis text-weight fonts, don't we have to specify more fully what it means
    in this context?\r\n\r\nThis is why I prefer to think in terms of proper salience
    and appropriate cue value of role architectural particulars (stems, bowls, arms,
    etc,: the black) and role architecturally evoked material (counters, the shapes
    between letters, etc.: the white. (One-hundred dolllar words, I know, but worth
    buying into.) Both the black and the white carry wordform resolutional information;
    the visual cortex 'reads' both.\r\n\r\nCompetant type designers have a fine eye
    for and ability to manage proper salience, as well as an intuitive understanding
    of cue value. Empirical studies can perhaps inform us about what parts of letters
    in word contexts have greater or lesser relative cue value for reading tasks.
    For example, is it the counter of the lower case 'o' or the black of the letter
    that the visual cortex depends on most? And if the counter, does absolute notan
    obscure it too much?\r\n\r\n(What has cue value importance in wordform resolutional
    tasks might not correspond exactly to what has importance in individual letter
    recognitional task.)"
  created: '2005-08-07 16:19:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> HOW OLD WILL I BE THEN?\r\n\r\nThink TypeCon-2055, so you can pull a Rondthaler.
    ;-)\r\n\r\nDunno, David - I'm just trying. And who else besides MS is too? Adobe?
    Apple?!\r\nYes, they might not succeed. But Yoda was full of crap: trying is what
    counts.\r\n\r\n> http://www3.sympatico.ca/penneson/blk_versus_wht.pdf\r\n\r\nNice.\r\nQuestion:
    why in both the Garamond (Jannon) and the Gill do the two settings have the same
    \"polarity\"? What I mean is, since one is lighter than Meta (which has equi-valence)
    and one is darker, shouldn't the \"black\"/\"white\" results have an invert relationship
    between those two fonts? They seem to have the <strong>same</strong> relationship
    - or maybe I'm not seeing straight.\r\n\r\nAs for the issue of what is \"ideal\":
    I'd have to think about it some more, but I (and others, like Smeijers) have in
    fact expressed that the contemporary mainstream Regular is a bit light. Typography
    is still hung over from the waify 70s.\r\n\r\nAnd another question: is it OK to
    do the reverse-field only on the x-height? Shouldn't you do full white-on-black
    setting?\r\n\r\n> This is why I prefer to think in terms of proper salience\r\n>
    and appropriate cue value of role architectural particulars\r\n\r\nI agree.\r\nTotal
    black/white coverags is not enough.\r\nOn the other hand, I think it's plausible
    that such coverage can be optimal or not, meaning that the color range for optimal
    reading can indeed be quantified, maybe quite narrowly. A lot like interletter
    spacing, actually.\r\n\r\nBut Peter, I'm not even going that far, and have encountered
    stubborn resistance: the main thing I'm saying for now (since I haven't managed
    to delve deeper yet) is that creating the black (chirography) cripples ideal notan.
    People who don't even accept that will certainly resist your particular \"constructivist\"
    ideas... :-/  For example, they want the bowls of \"b\"/\"d\"/\"p\"/\"q\" to be
    be structurally similar. Game over.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 17:39:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Hrant' it's not about coverage; it's about distribution of visual information
    in the spatial frequency domain. Lots of light greys and white blotches in fourier
    transforms doesn't mean lots of white in the type. It means lots of visual information
    at the particular frequency at which the whitest blotches occur.
  created: '2005-08-07 19:24:05'
- author:
    name: Forrest L Norvell
    picture: 109561
  body: "After reading this thread and the thread started by Nick Shinn about his
    reworking of Eunoia into a  \"text face\", I have a few comments.\r\n\r\nFor starters,
    I think almost all of the discussions Typophile has seen about readability, legibility,
    and \"readerability\" uneasily bridge the divide between <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Science\">science</a>
    and <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scientism\">scientism</a>. The amount
    of wooly, inductive reasoning and obscurantist jargon that gets brought to bear
    on these discussions makes it very difficult to determine what's meaningful and
    what's, to be blunt, pretentious hokum. I'm not saying that it's all one or the
    other, just that it's very hard to evaluate which is which.\r\n\r\nIf we're to
    get anywhere in these discussions, we're going to have to put them on a scientific
    footing. To me, that means gathering quantifiable data, stating disprovable hypotheses
    that can be tested into theories, and using those theories to suggest further
    areas for investigation. To me, even in the recent postings by Mr. Enneson there's
    an excess of the trappings of scientific discourse and a lack of firm linkages
    between data (such as the Fourier transforms on text) and any sort of disprovable
    hypothesis.\r\n\r\nAs flawed as Hrant (and others) may believe Kevin Larson's
    <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/ctfonts/WordRecognition.aspx\">studies</a>
    have been, part of the reason why Hrant's even able to criticize his studies is
    that he's described what he's done and how he's done it very clearly. I agree
    that it's difficult to draw conclusions about word recognition, readability, and
    the role that readerability plays while running test subjects through contrived
    environments distantly removed from the relaxed reading of text on a printed page
    in a comfortable environment. However, I find what Larson's done FAR more valuable
    than making unsubstantiated claims about what is and isn't readable based on what
    you \"know\" to be true -- claims that are nearly impossible to prove or disprove
    -- and calling it \"scientific\".\r\n\r\nThis may come across as an attack, and
    if so, please forgive me, it's intended in the spirit of a challenge rather than
    a putdown: I would love to not only understand how reading works, but to have
    some meaningful guidelines, to follow or ignore, on how to design type to be more
    easily, speedily, and accurately read. I don't believe type designers have figured
    out all the answers to these problems and just \"know\" how to design type for
    optimum readability. People used to say the same things about physics and medicine,
    and science has transformed both of those fields beyond recognition. Closer to
    home, interface design and usability have both moved forwards considerably since
    the advent of controlled, user-directed testing. I'm certain typecraft can benefit
    in similar ways.\r\n\r\nBut if we're going to talk about the scientific basis
    for readability, we're obligated to do some real science to provide that footing,
    and having studied just enough cognitive psychology and neurology to freak myself
    out (sanity's much more illusory than I'm comfortable imagining most of the time),
    I feel like I have enough of an idea of how fantastically convoluted it is that
    I can suggest suggest that only the most rigorous and incremental studies are
    going to get us where we want to go. Fourier transforms have yielded some really
    interesting information about the history of type design, but I still don't see
    what meaningful things they're telling us right now about readability. They tell
    us that some typefaces, massed on the page, have certain relationships of white
    space to black text, that's true. But that information on its own says nothing
    meaningful about the role notan may play in readability, and it provides little
    substantiation one way or the other to any claims we might make along those lines."
  created: '2005-08-07 21:36:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Perhaps I was wrong to introduce fourier transforms into the discussion without
    a thorough introduction to what they do and what they reveal. \r\nIndividual transforms
    do not tell us anything specific about the relationship of white space to black
    text as you suggest they do. Rather, they tell us meaningful things about the
    spatial distribution (at various orientations) of the visual information on a
    surface.\r\n\r\nI said, or meant to say, no more with my fourier transforms argument
    than  that fourier transforms of text under conditions of professional spacing
    show a characteristic profile and that this might serve as a benchmark for the
    kind of test Kevin Larson seems to be conducting. It might serve as a norm against
    which to measure or define loose and tight spacing. \r\n\r\nAnd I tried to use
    the kind of information supplied by comparing transforms of the black to transforms
    of the white to ask questions about what black / white balance (if that is what
    we are after) might mean in typographical terms--to ask questions about the meaning
    of notan.\r\n\r\nI did not mean to imply that fourier transforms proved anything
    about readability.\r\n\r\nMany of my terms--salience, cue value, response bias,
    role--come from the world of cognitive psychology. Others come from a feeling
    that some of the terms of reference used in empirical investigations of perceptual
    processing in reading (and interpreted by cognitive scientists using perhaps suitable
    / perhaps unsuitable paradigms) are inadequate and confounding. My use of the
    cumbersome phrase 'visual word form resolution' in place of the seemingly more
    direct 'word recognition' is a case in point. I hold that the perceptual processing
    task involved in reading is more effectively described as visual wordform resolution
    than word recognition (which in the cognitive psychology literature generally
    means matching abstract orthographic sequences to entries in the mental lexicon--a
    cerebral cortex based computational operation, rather than a visual cortex based
    perceptual processing operation. \r\n\r\nI would prefer of course that my use
    of terms not be perceived as obscurantist, or my inclinations scientistic. In
    forums such as this I lapse into a kind of condensation of my argument which is
    perhaps unwise. My main interest in all of this is in exploring my conviction
    that there are sound perceptual processing reasons for type designers to be as
    concerned as they have alway been about strategic construction, contrast manipulation,
    scaling, space craft. That typographical'aesthetics' has a firm foundation."
  created: '2005-08-08 01:55:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I don\u2019t believe type designers have figured out all the answers to
    these problems and just \u201Cknow\u201D how to design type for optimum readability.\r\n\r\nThat's
    not the way design works.\r\nKeep your Stalinists away from my sheep."
  created: '2005-08-08 03:01:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s not about coverage; it\u2019s about distribution of visual information\r\n\r\nIsn't
    it both? I admit to not fully grasping those graphs, but when you say that Meta-Bold
    is equi-valent, are you basing that on the observation that the positive/negative
    graphs are <strong>structurally</strong> similar? Doesn't that mean the overall
    luminosity of each has to have a certain relationship too? What would be nice
    is if you went into more detail explaining what we need to see in those graphs.
    Sure, they don't prove anything, but they seem to be a very promising tool. Like
    my \"encapsulations\" of scripts (or more accurately script+language):\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_rome1.html
    (far right image)\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s very hard to evaluate which is which.\r\n\r\nTrue.
    And/but I feel there is no Answer [anyway]. BTW, even harder -and more useful-
    is evaluating the merits of the hundreds of potentially pertinent empirical research
    studies!  :-/ There is so much junk out there, but luckily/sadly they each contain
    <strong>something</strong> useful... It's a really long, cold, endless slog.\r\n\r\n>
    we\u2019re going to have to put them on a scientific footing.\r\n\r\nDo you have
    proof you won't get run over by a truck when you leave the house? Does this stop
    you from leaving? Different people have different thresholds of moving from assumption
    to action. You might think I'm wooly, I might counter that you're a prude. I mean,
    do you refuse to set type until you know how many microjoules the reader will
    expend reading it? We do the best with what we know. I think we know enough to
    do certain things, like use serif type for books, make more fonts like Legato,
    etc. Is this a cardinal sin?\r\n\r\nThat said, I'm all for more -but please, better-
    empirical research into readability. I'm certain that if the testing is good,
    boumas will come out of the woodwork. And I'm certain only because the confluence
    of everything I've been exposed to points to that. What other reason could I have?\r\n\r\n>
    part of the reason why Hrant\u2019s even able to criticize his\r\n> studies is
    that he\u2019s described what he\u2019s done and how he\u2019s\r\n> done it very
    clearly.\r\n\r\nOh, totally. I couldn't count how many times I've expressed my
    gratitude for Kevin's presence. The reason I mention him so often is because he's
    a key ingredient in the quest to help millions of users. And this is somewhat
    parallel to how I feel about GN btw: his formalizations of chirography are what
    helped me nail down exactly what's wrong with chirography. Thank you, sincerely.
    The difference though is that Kevin is open-minded, which I guess he can afford
    to be, and even has a professional duty to be. That is in fact one difference
    between the Artist and the Scientist.\r\n\r\n> calling it \u201Cscientific\u201D.\r\n\r\nLet's
    not quibble about terminology, at least not too much. Some people define Science
    quite narrowly. Others might see in it more of what the Ancient Greeks did, which
    involved heavy doses of introspection and intuition. And it's not crazy to state
    that the greatest scientists leverage their intuition heavily - think of Einstein:
    he <strong>knew</strong> he was right before he had concrete proof. Come on, Forrest,
    humans make all their daily decisions based on what they think they know - what
    other choice do we have? Formal proof is severely over-rated; don't let it shakle
    you.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t believe type designers have figured out all the\r\n>
    answers to these problems and just \u201Cknow\u201D how to design\r\n> type for
    optimum readability.\r\n\r\nOf course you're right.\r\n\r\n> Keep your Stalinists
    away from my sheep.\r\n\r\nBut they're so nice and wooly!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 06:03:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '''Nepenthe'', tests of speed readers have generally shown that their accuracy
    and retention is poor compared to people reading at typical speeds. Speed reading
    isn''t really reading at all: it is a form of systematic scanning in which one
    tries to pick up as much raw information as possible in the shortest amount of
    time. Reading is an engagement with a text, i.e. with the way in which the information
    and ideas in the text are structured and expressed. One of the benefits of such
    engagement is that the information is retained longer, because it is associated
    with structured thoughts.'
  created: '2005-08-08 07:28:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Speed reading isn\u2019t really reading at all\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 07:34:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Speed reading isn\u2019t really reading at all\r\n\r\nI disagree.\r\nAll
    reading is predictive to an extent, and edits the text accordingly.\r\nSpeed reading
    is part of the spectrum, at the other end from spelling out every letter.\r\nIt's
    unscientific to dismiss speed reading without analysis as to how it works: the
    extremes can be revealing.\r\nGiven how little one actually remembers of what
    one reads, speed reading would seem to be an efficient strategy.\r\n\r\nIf you're
    reading a text, and you've got a good idea what the writer's on about, and your
    first saccadic scan of a paragraph suggests that it's redundant, you skip to the
    next. This is how reading works at every level: you only read a letter, or a word,
    or a sentence, to the depth it takes for closure to occur on signification."
  created: '2005-08-08 12:19:56'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"This is how reading works at every level: you only read a letter, or a
    word, or a sentence, to the depth it takes for closure to occur on signification.\"\r\n\r\nLovely!"
  created: '2005-08-08 12:54:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yoda? He saves the univers doesn't he? Fine thanks he got.\r\n\r\nA good
    reading Latin script for print text is slightly more densely \u201Cpopulated\u201D
    along the x-height region, (across the page), than it is along the baseline region
    (also across the page),  while both are more dense than the ascent and descent
    regions, with the addition of Caps boosting the density of the ascent area over
    that of the descent. A lot can be learned and discussed about the evolution of
    this system by looking at its dychographic (sp?) shifts and changes for technological
    purposes from Charlemagne\u2019s to Linotype\u2019s Times,  but the evolution
    of the x-height region, and of expanding speeds in western reading and writing,
    go together, in scientific terms, like sunshine and growth without even knowing
    about photosynthesis.\r\n\r\nLooking at any good latin l.c. x-height region without
    the bottom, very scientifically and effectively \u201Cproves\u201D the importance
    of the x-height region. You can also show its importance by messing with the denizens
    of the x-height region: e.g. removing the ball from the \u201Cr\u201D, flaring
    the top of the \u201Ca\u201D to a chisel instead of a ball or teardrop, diminishing
    the top serif of c and s to stubs and using a modern g instead of the old one...and
    the x-height region, and readability, slowly goes, in scientific terms, pffft.
    (see Hrant\u2019s scientific pictures of brains on various types: pfft is represented
    by brains looking mushroom cloud-like in plan view, while antipfft is a more relaxed
    spiraling nebular brains). \r\n\r\nThe readability equivalent of the plague comes
    to town when resolution is lowered down to our screens, and applied to type \u2014
    the hierarchy of regions is \"flattened out\" by rounding so brutal that our x-height
    is hardly more pixel populated than that of the baseline. The champion serif fonts
    of print text, no matter how well hinted, have been rejected for sans, Why? because
    the x-height region of a sans is \"slightly\" more readable at low resolution:
    there are no serifs in the baseline region and few in the x-height region to out
    dense the x-height region as resolution collapses the black features to 1 pixel
    for all things. \r\n\r\nLook At The Type On Your Screen. What's missing versus
    good print text? It\u2019s the Bonneville Type Flats and that, is just the vertical
    side of the story. There is an equally important horizontal one. \r\n\r\nNow,
    maybe, I have a different definition of the word TRYING than Hrant, but it seems
    like trying to be dumbest when study one is: of screen fonts of different sizes
    AND designs, proving conclusively that people don\u2019t like screen fonts that
    are too small; study two was \u201Cdoes the average mall visitor like Italic type
    fuzzy or sharp!\u201D; and actions so far have included decisions in the CT rasterizer
    that Horizontal resolution is of more importance than Vertical, or it the other
    way around this week, and that hints need no longer apply in the future, \u201Cthe
    rasterizer has gotten that good, but not below 15-17 ppm(!)\u201D, coupled with
    the obviously biased and narrow-minded \u201Cacademic\u201D marketing/research
    and the impending hilarity of the next set of \u201Cstudies\u201D, and I\u2019d
    say, maybe trying has a different definition for me than for others..."
  created: '2005-08-08 13:22:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">The champion serif fonts of print text, no matter how well hinted, have
    been rejected for sans, Why? because the x-height region of a sans is \u201Cslightly\u201D
    more readable at low resolution: \r\n\r\nThere are also cultural reasons, \"pull\"
    factors such as Cool being desirable and Old-fashioned being anathema. It doesn't
    matter that uncool is less efficient (like walking on stiletto heels). I think
    part of the reason that serifed fonts don't look right in so many comps is that
    traditional serif text types rule the roost in conservative periodicals, and a
    lot of font development follows the money, directed at this market. However, it's
    interesting that since the Millennium a number of new-looking sans serif faces
    have come onto the retail market, and I believe that art directors will start
    to use these more and more.\r\n\r\nA \"push\" cultural reason is accessibility:
    I recently did some inquiry concerning a local government publication where the
    text was 14 pt Gill Sans Light, tightly leaded and tracked. It transpired that
    there was a legibility standard specifying a mimimum size, and sans serif style,
    to aid the reading-challenged. To meet the requirement, and yet still retain a
    modicum of grace, and fit enough copy on the page, the designer had followed the
    letter of the law, but not the intent, producing something that looked good in
    layout, but was hard to read for everyone. \r\n\r\nThey had come across the idea
    that sans serif is easier to read (seems logical enough, get rid of the unnecessary
    old-fashioned petticoat decoration), and preferred to follow this specious \"common
    sense\" rather than look in the large print section of the library/bookstore,
    where it can be seen that all the books are set in serifed type, which is the
    user choice, implemented by the economic Darwinism of the marketplace."
  created: '2005-08-08 14:06:46'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Yoda? He saves the <strong>univers</strong></em> [sic] <em> doesn\u2019t
    he? Fine thanks he got</em>\r\n\r\nWell, it <strong>is</strong> a sans-serif font..."
  created: '2005-08-08 14:19:05'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "David, I take your observations to be talking about salience and cue value
    rich zones. How densely the various zones are populated for various fonts could
    be documented in fourier transforms as well, but from Hrant's questions it is
    clear to me now what needs to be done to make these 'maps' more transparent for
    the average typophile. So maybe I'll try to work this into a presentation or something.\r\n\r\nRaph,
    why are we not hearing from you on this? You seem to have a good understanding
    of fourier transforms."
  created: '2005-08-08 14:19:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> All reading is predictive to an extent, and edits the text accordingly.\r\n\r\nYes
    on the first part, no on the second. Terms are best when they're useful, not when
    they try to reflect Da Truth. In the context of type design (unlike the context
    of the publishing business for example) the reason to ignore speed reading is
    that it adds nothing. There is a chasm of relevance between predictiveness at
    the subconscious level in terms of boumas, and predictiveness at the conscious
    level where content is wilfully ignored.\r\n\r\nSo speed reading is not an extreme
    of the spectrum; as far as type design is concerned, it is outside the spectrum.
    Just like copywrighting is for example.\r\n\r\n> It\u2019s unscientific\r\n\r\n!\r\n\r\n>
    A good reading Latin script for print text is slightly more densely \u201Cpopulated\u201D\r\n\r\nGood
    point.\r\n\r\n> the x-height region of a sans is \u201Cslightly\u201D more readable
    at low resolution\r\n\r\nSo what about a semi serif for the screen, with its serifs
    at the x-line?\r\n\r\n> the other way around this week\r\n\r\nThis is indeed a
    real problem. The promptness with which hinting was dumped for example surprised
    even me. But you could say this is a consequence of a corporation being public.\r\n\r\n>
    It doesn\u2019t matter that uncool is less efficien\r\n\r\nYes it does matter.
    Everything matters. Design is a balance.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 16:31:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"There are also cultural reasons, \u201Cpull\u201D factors such as Cool
    being desirable and Old-fashioned being anathema.\"\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, but to draw
    a line from sans to cool across the constellation of fonts is just not the reason
    sans is more popular on the screen. We are talking about deep-seeded needs in
    low resolution space and style just has nothing to do with it. \r\n\r\n\"what
    about a semi serif for the screen, with its serifs at the x-line?\"\r\n\r\nThat
    would depend very much on which of the semi you choose. Choose the right ones,
    and you get a better result. The wrong ones are obvious.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 05:44:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">We are talking about deep-seeded needs in low resolution space and style
    just has nothing to do with it.\r\n\r\nPerhaps I was a little too glib in using
    the term \"cool\" to describe an intuitive preference for something different.
    I was trying to explain the feeling I've had, when trying out a variety of fonts
    for a book cover design, discovering that the old standby serif types (and ways
    of setting those faces) just look wrong; in fact, serif faces are a difficult
    proposition in many genres where they once ruled. And it's not just me, because
    the comps with serif styles are dismissed by the client. Sans serifs and scripts
    have more clout. \r\n\r\nI don't think the slippage of serif usage can be entirely
    ascribed to screen-driven pressure from sans serifs, because scripts are also
    in the ascendance."
  created: '2005-08-09 12:29:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" book cover design\" , \"scripts are also in the ascendance.\"\r\n\r\nYou
    and I Nick, could only be described as \"on different topics\". :)"
  created: '2005-08-09 12:37:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">\u201Con different topics\u201D\r\n\r\nNot really. I'm not discounting your
    \"technological determinism\" logic (which is a strong belief of mine), but pointing
    out there are multiple factors also contributing.\r\n\r\nWhen one sees sans serif
    faces being used with greater frequency for the text of advertisements and magazines,
    it indicates a general trend towards sans text.\r\nThis can't be entirely screen-driven
    (although it may be like the \"tech-envy\" streamlining vogue of product design
    in the mid 20th C, when every pencil sharpener had to look like a jet plane).\r\n\r\nPart
    of this trend is caused by the digital schism, breaking the tradition of serifed
    text, and there are other factors as well, such as the high-resolution digital
    print production process, which can make serifed faces look wasted and scratchy,
    while smartening up sans serifs."
  created: '2005-08-09 14:10:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is like the time I took Steven Heller to task for his misrepresentation
    of the Lebanese war in a Print magazine article, and after an email exchange,
    him concluding with \"We're actually agreeing\"... Voodoo rhetorics.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 16:49:33'
- author:
    name: Forrest L Norvell
    picture: 109561
  body: "'Looking at any good latin l.c. x-height region without the bottom, very
    scientifically and effectively \u201Cproves\u201D the importance of the x-height
    region.'\r\n\r\nYeah.\r\n\r\n*sigh*"
  created: '2005-08-09 17:32:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Voodoo rhetorics.\r\n\r\nHuh?\r\nI didn't accuse David of misrepresentation.\r\nI
    began my comment, \"There are also cultural reasons...\"\r\n\r\nOh, and work on
    the content, as you like to say. What's YOUR take on why the shift to sans? Culture,
    technology, or both? Perhaps a little politics as well?\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 18:28:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I meant your \"we're not really on different topics\".\r\n\r\nShift to sans:
    it seems to be related to mankind's knee-jerk reaction against the increasing
    complexity of life, stemming from the push to infernal mechanization in the 19th
    century. Sort of how people used to go the movies a lot during the Great Depression.
    But of course that didn't make things better, and a book in sans still bites.\r\n\r\nBut
    I don't want to soil this discussion with too much of a cultural angle (even though
    that's certainly a fruitful topic of its own).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 18:44:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" it indicates a general trend towards sans text. This can\u2019t be entirely
    screen-driven\"\r\n\r\nNo you're right Nick, it's not entirely screen driven because
    all type is bigger than any one technology. The drive to Sans is what I'd like
    to start discussing relative to Hrant's Dychographic shifts (is that the term?),
    the last of which was the sans invasion that began in the 30's with the modern
    movement, was interrupted by, and part of, WWII and then was completed in the
    60's, by which time Sans had thoroughly become accepted for all uses, except,
    as Hrant points out, long book text. This long-running shift made the change to
    sans screen fonts easy and natural for the masses.\r\n\r\nBut as far as I can
    think, and I need help here, the first shift was obviously the adoption of the
    Roman alphabet. The second was the creation of the lowercase. The third, blackletter,
    which amazingly was the best design  possible to facilitate the technological
    shift to letterpress without a Dychographic shift required at the same time, then
    Aldus and Bologna with the italic, then Kis and the good old new roman, then a
    long gap to the sans shift just discussed. Then...Grunge :) , and then \"the one
    we're missing\", so far...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 13:00:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\".and then \u201Cthe one we\u2019re missing\u201D, so far\u2026\"\r\nPerhaps
    the opentype technology will bring back handwriting as an acceptable text medium.
    With all the substitutions possible, maybe a rebellion against the rigid common
    x-height and line spacing of today will bring a new Humanism to front.  There
    was a young man from South America at TypeCon who showed a design for a face he
    was working on which mimics homemade colloquial signage.  Maybe that is the start
    of the revolution?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-10 13:29:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My emergence of the sans history:\r\n\r\nIt begins in the late 18th century,
    kind of an antiquarian thing, as documented in James Moseley's \"Nymph and the
    Grot\". In the early 19th century it gets established in signage (this is something
    that Justin Howes was researching when he died). By the 1830s, it is widely used
    in type as a contrast face (caps only) in commercial publishing, and occasionally
    as a display face in ads and posters, and this role continues until the 1930s,
    when there is also a small amount of all-sans pieces, mainly high-tech product
    brochures and publications (Motor Boat magazine [US] is very interesting -- lots
    of Futura in the '40s and '50s). Post WW2 with the International Style, we see
    the sans get more usage as an editorial text face, in corporate and government
    ID systems.\r\n\r\nThe early 20th century modern movement certainly established
    faces like Gill Sans and Futura, but when you look at the mass media of the 20th
    century, sans serif usage is a minor phenomenon, statistically. Especially for
    text. Twentieth century modernism is a great narrative for the history books,
    but historicism was the dominant design genre of the century.\r\n\r\n(Concerning
    the Bauhaus, not to deny its influence, but I think that during its heyday it
    was a small design school, and there were several larger schools in Weimar even,
    that were teaching traditional design philosophy and methods.) \r\n\r\nAnd then,
    about eight years ago (twelve years into the digital era), sans and script use
    starts spreading. Coinciding not with the introduction of PCs and DTP, but with
    the internet.\r\n\r\nIronically, much of the sans use now is retro-modern. The
    bowl of the \"a\" in Gill Sans reminds me of a 1930s baby carriage, the wedge-shaped
    bowl of the \"a\" in Eras a 1970s Lamborghini Countach. And Microgramma is a bulbous
    1940s TV screen.\r\n\r\n>Perhaps the opentype technology will bring back handwriting
    as an acceptable text medium. \r\n\r\nComic Sans got there first. But I hear you,
    it seems like an idea worth exploring, which is one reason I was interested to
    do the workshop at TypeCon. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: thierry blancpain
      picture: 110642
    body: "\"Comic Sans got there first.\"\r\n\r\na girl in my last school used to
      print out EVERYTHING she read in comic sans - because she said it was the typeface
      that she liked the most to read long texts in. despite my discussions with her,
      she didnt change her position, and in the end, i believe her. that she finds
      it to be the best typeface  to use for HER."
    created: '2006-04-25 15:41:42'
  created: '2005-08-10 14:51:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...an idea worth exploring, which is one reason I was interested to do
    the workshop at TypeCon\"\r\n\r\nIt was quite helpful.  Thanks to you guys, I
    am using skills learned in your presentation now! \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-10 15:30:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a rebellion against the rigid common x-height and line spacing\r\n\r\nThese
    do indeed contain potential advantages, but you certainly don't need chirography
    to carry them through. Structural divergence -like stroke contrast- should be
    treated as a design element, independent of its circumstancial origins.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 15:45:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Batya, you might start a new thread about this.\r\nYou might get adequate
    help here, but you'll\r\nprobably get a lot more if you start fresh.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 17:35:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...but you certainly don\u2019t need chirography to carry them through....\"\r\n\r\nMy
    point was not so much about making type more readable or even if it were based
    on writing.  I was trying to indicate that the seeds of the next departure in
    type may already have been sown and that what we use as a measure for good design
    today will be out the window in favor of whatever comes next--it may well be harder
    to read than what we have today. As those before us have been confounded by \"the
    New Typopgraphy\" we will be confounded by whatever happens next.  Whoever is
    old enough to use this forum is probably to old to be part of the \"new thing\".
    \ The youngest among us here will be the fuddy-duddy old establishment that the
    newcomers will rebel against.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-14 03:23:31'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: http://sciencenow.sciencemag.org/cgi/content/full/2006/419/2
  created: '2006-04-24 19:15:06'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Laura, I noticed that too. Thanks!\r\n\r\n\"After the surgery, the patient
    could still quickly identify objects, but his reading went downhill. On average,
    it took him over 1000 milliseconds to read a three-letter word, and for every
    additional letter, the time went up about 300 milliseconds. This suggests he was
    reading the words letter by letter...\"\r\n\r\nThis could suggest that there is
    a loss of ability to relate to words as bounded maps or boumas. The researchers
    interpret the loss as a 'loss of parallel reading'. See a pdf of the full report
    <a href=\"http://download.neuron.org/pdfs/0896-6273/PIIS0896627306002285.pdf\">here</a>
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-04-25 15:22:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Laura, very interesting - thanks!\r\n\r\n> This could suggest that there
    is a loss of ability\r\n> to relate to words as bounded maps or boumas.\r\n\r\nBut
    it could also be that it merely inhibits the parallelism in Larson's model.\r\nThey'll
    need to cut up more brains to be sure.  :-)\r\n\r\n> she finds it to be the best
    typeface to use for HER.\r\n\r\nShe merely thinks so - not the same thing as <cite>reality</cite>.\r\nSort
    of like how many obese people think they're just\r\na tad bit overweight, or sometimes
    not even that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 17:10:15'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "hrant - i thought the same - i nearly started puking everytime i read one
    of her notes (she was a good student, so despite the ugly font, it was a good
    thing to read her essays). but after talking to her about it i believe that she
    finds it the most comfortable typeface to read, and thats her good right. we're
    not talking about 30 pages here, but 1-5.\r\n\r\nand in the end, a page set in
    arial isnt much easier to read than one set in comic sans :)"
  created: '2006-04-25 17:26:46'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"> This could suggest that there is a loss of ability\r\n> to relate to
    words as bounded maps or boumas.\r\n\r\nBut it could also be that it merely inhibits
    the parallelism in Larson\u2019s model.\"\r\n\r\nSo your guess would be that only
    the brain-ware underlying the foveal component, and not the brain-ware underlying
    the 'hidden core' got damaged?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-04-25 23:01:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're forgetting that I don't believe in Larson's model!  :-)\r\nI actually
    agree with you about what's happening - but I did\r\nwant to point out that this
    study's results don't affirm that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 23:20:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"You\u2019re forgetting that I don\u2019t believe in Larson\u2019s model!\"\r\n\r\nIt's
    my impression you believe the model Kevin put forward at ATypI and Thessaloniki
    applies to processing in foveal vision. So I thought you were saying: perhaps
    the results had an applicability to what happens in foveal vision only. \r\n\r\n\"I
    actually agree with you about what\u2019s happening - but I did\r\nwant to point
    out that this study\u2019s results don\u2019t affirm that.\"\r\n\r\nI thought
    I had already made that clear. I said \"The researchers interpret the loss as
    a \u2018loss of parallel reading\u2019.\"\r\n\r\n(Actually, it's not that the
    study's results don't affirm it, it's that the study's authors put a different
    interpretation on the data elicited by their methods than I think is warranted.)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-04-26 00:26:56'
date: '2005-08-04 17:02:55'
title: readerability / readability

---
