---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "Take a font with a defective glyph, and fix it.\r\n\r\nFirst challenge: the
  \"g\" in Matrix.\r\n\r\nLet's see what you got guys! And girls. The winner\r\ngets
  a free license to some font. Or something.\r\n\r\nBut of course just show the new
  glyph (maybe in\r\na word) don't go passing around derivative fonts!!\r\nAnd if
  you don't have the font, use a rendering\r\nfrom MyFonts or something.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: ben millen
    picture: 110679
  body: great idea hrant -- and a good choice for the first glyph.  I'll take a stab
    at this later today when i should be doing 'work'..
  created: '2005-08-05 14:45:56'
- author:
    name: oribendor
    picture: 110846
  body: "Just out of curiosity: what kind of font could the prize be?\r\n\r\noribendor"
  created: '2005-08-05 18:16:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ben, can't wait.\r\n\r\n> what kind of font could the prize be?\r\n\r\nSome
    freeware?  :-/\r\nSorry, the prize is actually just Satisfaction.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-05 18:47:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe the prize should be Patria? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-05 18:58:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The \"g\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-05 19:05:07'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Hmmm... I thought this sounded an interesting idea/challenge. I keep looking
    back here to see if anyone's had a go at it. I can only assume they're all taking
    their time to get it right... ;-D\r\n\r\n\r\nEver since I chose to block pop-ups,
    my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2005-08-15 11:47:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I can only assume they\u2019re all taking their time to get it right\r\n\r\nI
    wouldn't presume to improve upon the work of Zuzana Licko, even if I thought one
    of her glyphs wasn't up to par."
  created: '2005-08-15 22:01:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I know she is (or at least used to be) your biggest idol, but that doesn't
    make her infallible. But anyway, this isn't about her, it's about how to improve
    a font, in this case how to fix the Achilles Heel of an otherwise wonderful design.
    Designers do that all the time to existing fonts, even to those by people who
    are not dead yet. Of course you don't have to participate (just like you never
    help out in the critiques - and I know exactly why, don't you doubt it - I'm just
    playing nice) but please don't discourage others; those of us who are here to
    learn can gain a lot from such an exercise. Heck, with some fancy coding an end-user
    could conceivably get a much more usable font out of the process even!  :-)\r\n\r\nA
    font is not a painting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-15 22:18:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">But anyway, this isn\u2019t about her,\r\n\r\nBut it is Hrant. Perhaps other
    people are having second thoughts about joining in your personal vendetta against
    Ms Licko."
  created: '2005-08-16 00:35:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> (just like you never help out in the critiques - and I know exactly why,
    don\u2019t you doubt it - I\u2019m just playing nice)\r\n\r\nHrant, perhaps the
    reason I don't \"help out\" is that you would take the opportunity to trash whatever
    I said. I don't know why I bother opening my mouth on Typophile, every time I
    do you jump down my throat."
  created: '2005-08-16 00:49:22'
- author:
    name: i0ta
  body: "Here's one for you:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/tester.php?fontstyletoken=Amplitude-Regular&fontsize=36&text=ugly@amplitude.com\r\n\r\nThe
    \"@\" in Amplitude.\r\n\r\nI absolutely love this typeface and others by Christian
    Schwartz, but I think the \"@\" could have been done a lot better. I think it
    looks out of place compared with the rest of the characters in the family. Possibly
    because the stroke of the loop around the \"a\" is so much lighter than the other
    characters."
  created: '2005-08-24 13:35:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah, that is pretty bad. Plus an At with a binocular \"a\" in the middle
    is too distracting I think; the \"normal\" form with the mono \"a\" allows the
    character to be more itself - which would be an easy fix.\r\n\r\nNobody's \"man\"
    enough to tackle the \"g\" in Matrix?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-24 20:42:55'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<em>Nobody\u2019s \u201Cman\u201D enough to tackle the \u201Cg\u201D in Matrix?
    :-)</em>\r\nIt's a pretty ugly glyph, I've gotta finish my finals but I'll have
    a go even though I've never really done any type design."
  created: '2005-08-24 22:43:10'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Here my first <em>tackle.</em>\r\n\r\nThe <a href=\"http://webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/Krutgeira.gif\">Krutgeira</a>
    game."
  created: '2005-08-25 14:19:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, you took the easy way out - going mono!  :-)\r\nFor a mono though I
    think it works, except that\r\nthe terminal is coming too close to the bowl.\r\nIn
    situations like this it's not unacceptable\r\nto lift the bowl off the baseline
    a bit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-25 16:32:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Although I'd still like to see somebody try his/her hand at a better binocular
    \"g\" for Matrix, I have another one:\r\n\r\nThe \"d\" in Perpetua.\r\nBut it
    would be too easy making it totally mainstream, so what would be cool is if it
    were made to keep some level of idiosyncracy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 06:34:55'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "<em>Hey, you took the easy way out - going mono! :-)</em>\r\n\r\nIs in the
    rules we had to take a specific way? ;-)\r\nI'll be come back with a double storey
    one."
  created: '2005-08-26 12:41:56'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nWich Perpetua are you talking about. Could you show a sample?
    Thanks"
  created: '2005-08-26 12:47:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/perpetua-2/perpetua/win-t1/114833/character/0064/CP2/1/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 16:09:43'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "My second attempt with a binocular \xABg\xBB<a href=\"http://webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/graphic.gif\">graphic</a> "
  created: '2005-08-26 20:16:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, this doesn't seem half bad! I might make the join less steep, make the
    head bigger, lighten things up a bit, and maybe point the ear upwards. Overall
    cool effort though. What do others think?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 20:22:47'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: Seems there is'nt lots of people to be concerned by this challenge :-/
  created: '2005-08-27 01:50:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "On a good day making a decent binocular \"g\" is pretty hard. For something
    \"literal\" like Matrix, such an organic structure becomes a True Challenge for
    the Brave and Skilled.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-27 01:57:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I just found the thread. I'll consider having a slash.
  created: '2005-08-29 06:57:19'
- author:
    name: oribendor
    picture: 110846
  body: "<cite>Hey, this doesn\u2019t seem half bad! I might make the join less steep,
    make the head bigger, lighten things up a bit, and maybe point the ear upwards.
    Overall cool effort though. What do others think?</cite>\r\n\r\nI'd second that."
  created: '2005-08-29 08:43:27'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "My most recent attempt with a binocular \xABg\xBB <a href=\"http://webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/graftage.gif\">graftage</a> "
  created: '2005-08-29 15:43:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'BTW - Nick, if your reading this I would prefer you say whatever suits you
    irrespective of what is said afterwards. '
  created: '2005-08-29 16:36:21'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "To me, Matrix is what it is. If you go changing it, it's not quite Matrix
    anymore. But if you want to engage in revisionist type design, I'm game. Andr\xE9
    asked me to comment on his solution. It's a nice looking g and does pick up on
    Matrix's design elements, but loses some of its essential mechanical quality.
    I would redo it more like this:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.marksimonson.com/matrix-redux.gif
    (before on left; after on right)\r\n\r\nI've tried to keep the basic design similar
    to the original, but I've shifted the proportions and weight around a bit. In
    doing so, I think it feels more comfortable in its surroundings, but has lost
    some of its iconoclasm."
  created: '2005-08-29 19:23:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "This was pretty fun. I could not spend too long on it so the usual excuses
    apply. Maybe I'll have another go later. For now you can slice this up.\r\n\r\n*
    <a Href=http://www.eyebytes.com/g1.jpg> Check It Out </a>*\r\n\r\nIt's interesting
    trying to walk the line between a very text like understucture and the ornamental
    serifs. \r\n\r\nBTW - My crit of what I have seen so far is that the examples
    don't have the sparkle of matrix. They are nice letters but they don't seem in
    keeping with the spirit of the face. You might disagree with that spirit on some
    level - but a replacement g needs to fit in with it's neighbors - no?"
  created: '2005-08-29 19:38:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I hadn't seen Mark's solution. I like it!\r\n\r\n-e."
  created: '2005-08-29 19:39:41'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "So far, I tried to go far away from the g Matrix spirit, to see if it's possible
    to change it. My sketches do not give what I expected.\r\n\r\nEben: your third
    option seems to have the best chance, What do you think of changing the tail?\r\nMark:
    Your right <em>right</em> looks good, but I still have problem with the underground
    storey \xABg\xBB."
  created: '2005-08-29 20:02:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> What do you think of changing the tail?\r\n\r\nI think change is needed!
    I won't be able to try anything until tommrow or maybe later than that so have
    at it if you want to! \r\n\r\nGo for it.\r\n\r\nLooking at my 3 again I should
    maybe comment that the 3rd one was an attempt to keep the feeling matix-y which
    yeilded a surprise. The surprise being that 3 looked like a g at all! I thought
    it was neat-o. But I actually don't think any of the examples I posted are real
    solutions. They are just sketches/experiments. They didn't do what I expected
    either! I am finding it hard to draw letters in illustrator now.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-29 23:00:53'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Mark: I find what you've done is really an interesting way.\r\n\r\nCould
    you do more? Double storey?"
  created: '2005-08-29 23:29:54'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: <a href="http://cerulean.st/misc/matrixgag.gif">This</a> hardly took half
    a minute, and you can tell. But it works.
  created: '2005-08-30 01:23:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Cerulean - that works - but it makes my eyes jingle-jangle!\r\n\r\nMake another
    please!"
  created: '2005-08-30 02:00:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> My most recent attempt\r\n\r\nI'm thinking that closing the bottom might
    in fact be a good idea here. But now it's leaning all kinds of funny. Why not
    reduce the angle of the diagonal? Of all the ones I've seen so far I think this
    has the most potential.\r\n\r\n> Matrix is what it is. If you go changing it,\r\n>
    it\u2019s not quite Matrix anymore.\r\n\r\nWell, OK. So name the rose with its
    errant petal tamed something else if you like. But the point and purpose remain.\r\n\r\nMark,
    I think your angle is not without merit, dealing with \"micro\" improvements while
    leaving the existing character of the design as unaltered as possible. But I have
    to doubt that if it gets rid of the distracting \"spike\" in texture that was
    the original complaint (at least on my end). I think in every other way Matrix
    can be a text face (or at least come very close).\r\n\r\n> This hardly took half
    a minute\r\n\r\nI think it has an elegance. I'd just lift the bowl off the baseline
    a tad.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-30 15:25:11'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: 'Somebody want to play <a href="http://webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/Criggage.gif">cribbage</a> '
  created: '2005-08-30 18:27:32'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Well, OK. So name the rose with its errant petal tamed something else
    if you like. But the point and purpose remain.\r\nMark, I think your angle is
    not without merit, dealing with \u201Cmicro\u201D improvements while leaving the
    existing character of the design as unaltered as possible. But I have to doubt
    that if it gets rid of the distracting \u201Cspike\u201D in texture that was the
    original complaint (at least on my end). I think in every other way Matrix can
    be a text face (or at least come very close).</em>\r\n\r\nOkay, then:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.marksimonson.com/double-g.gif\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-30 19:07:04'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I think the original \xABg\xBB ear has a better look in this <a href=\"http://webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/Cribbage2.gif\">second
    game</a> "
  created: '2005-08-30 19:33:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I say this speaking from the point of view of a graphic designer - I think
    what made matrix so popular in it's day was it's energy openess & brightness.
    It's has a can-do feeling. It's very california. Optomistic in character. I really
    like Mark's most recent effort because it maintains these qualities. In some ways
    his new g fits better than the old one! My only quibble/crit would be that the
    left side of the bottom bowl feels a tiny bit wonky. \r\n\r\n> To me, Matrix is
    what it is. If you go changing it, it\u2019s not quite Matrix anymore.\r\n\r\nYes,
    I agree. But your 'g' make for a better matrix than matrix! At least for texts.
    Advertising might be another issue. And Matrix, to be fair, wobbles between text
    & display  - no?\r\n\r\nSim (Andr) , Your g's, while excellent in their way, don't
    seem to fit as well as mark's to my eye. I feel as if I am seeing a 'g' from a
    page of a pulp novel. It's too scotch-ish I think... Maybe that last part is wrong.
    The angled terminal is part of the reason I think this. It has no similar feature
    to draw on in the face so it jumps out. But the real reason I like it it less
    is the slanted angle of the lower bowl. I think if it were straight I would like
    it better. Still, they are impressive! \r\n\r\nJust my usual 35 cents..."
  created: '2005-08-30 20:16:02'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I tried a few different ideas on the lower left curve; the one shown seemed
    to work best, but, yeah, it's not quite there yet.
  created: '2005-08-30 21:11:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I had faith that this would get interesting.\r\n\r\nI think both Mark's and
    sim's latest attempts are getting close, and in nicely different directions. I
    agree with Eben that sim's glyph is somewhat out of character (although the new
    ear helps). I can think of two things that should help: an angular join between
    the two bowls; and/or a straight top part to the bottom bowl. Also, I might try
    to make the bottom bowl open (after all). As for Mark's, I think the midsection
    might just be right on, but: 1) Maybe it's all not \"round\" enough. Should the
    head be smaller and the bottom bowl more full? 2) The left of the bottom bowl
    is totally out of character. Maybe just leave it open - and just like the original?
    Or turn the triangle terminal towards an \"upcurl\", instead of having it lay
    flat? I think sim tried something like that before.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-30 23:35:23'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: I worked on one of the first double storey I've already made. The one with
    an <a href="http://webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/Fatigability.gif">open lower bowl</a>.
    The difference between the two g <em>(of course, except the caps F ;-)</em> is
    the link of the upper bowl and the lower storey.
  created: '2005-08-31 17:58:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: That one seems to fit quite admirably!  :-)
  created: '2005-09-01 01:23:51'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.klim.co.nz/images/matg1.gif\">Does this count?</a> Might
    not have the spunk, but shares the ear of the 't', and serif of the\r\n's'\u2026\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-01 04:51:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Kris, I think yours may have the most in common with the typeface as designed.
    To my eyeIt really really fits. On the other hand the join between the bowls is
    quite sparkley. I think if you wanted the g to be set in long texts the join might
    be better off in the form of the arm of the 'r'. I don't think Matrix is really
    a long text sort of face myself though... so it's a matter of intent. What do
    you think?
  created: '2005-09-01 16:10:41'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Cheers Eben! I just fiddled for a few minutes till it 'looked right'. I wouldn't
    be able to tell at all how effective and appropriate it is until Isaw it in extended
    text. Like you I am not a huge fan of Matrix. But this throws up two things:\r\n\r\n1)
    I find that if I don't initially like something that, on good authority, is supposed
    to be good then I end up liking it through repeated exposure and time. Especially
    with music, when it immediately appeals to me it has severely limited longevity.\r\n\r\n2)
    I think I remember Hrant saying something about text faces having to have an inherent
    'ugliness' to them in order to remain effective at smaller sizes. I think there
    is some truth to this, and Matrix to me is rather ugly. But only large, which
    doesn't really count. I used to be repulsed by Antique Olive as well, but now
    I love it! \r\n\r\nHow bout that for a rave?\r\n\r\nkris"
  created: '2005-09-02 04:48:00'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I think the best one is Kris's g. It plays so well along with the space,
    the other letters and the style. I like Eben's last slashy g as a good display
    alternate.\r\n\r\nAll the other ones are good attempts, this is a nice excersie,
    How did I lost it so long?\r\n\r\nWhat's the next glyph?\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-09-02 04:58:59'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Nice one, Kris. I like yours, too.
  created: '2005-09-02 05:12:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A lot of good stuff - I'll try to catch up for real tomorrow.\r\n\r\nBut
    if a second challenge is desired, there's always my post\r\nof \"2005-08-25 22:34\"
    concerning a certain infamous \"d\"...\r\n\r\nYet another one might be the lc
    \"f\" in the original metal Sabon\r\nItalic - one of the worst glyphs ever made
    in any parallel universe.\r\n\r\nAnd then there's the \"a\" and \"r\" in Stone,
    with their sickly, cloying\r\nterminals. Those deserve a public flogging with
    a looong composing stick.\r\n\r\nOr somebody can suggest something else.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 05:18:15'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "<em>I have another one:\r\nThe \u201Cd\u201D in Perpetua.\r\nBut it would
    be too easy making it totally mainstream, so what would be cool is if it were
    made to keep some level of idiosyncracy.</em>\r\nHere my <a href=\"http://webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/Bridge.gif\">Perpetua
    d</a> "
  created: '2005-09-06 15:59:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Anybody can move on whenever of course, but I'm wondering:\r\n\r\nShould
    we call the Matrix \"g\" challenge complete as an exercise, or should we polish
    the best candidate to a finished state, and maybe even end up with a public \"font\"
    with just that glyph in it for owners of Matrix to sub in as desired?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-06 17:54:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> my Perpetua d\r\n\r\nHey, that's a nice surprise!\r\nI would never have
    thought of that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-06 17:57:03'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: ">Should we call the Matrix \u201Cg\u201D challenge complete as an exercise,
    or should we polish the best candidate to a finished state, and maybe even end
    up with a public \u201Cfont\u201D with just that glyph in it for owners of Matrix
    to sub in as desired?\r\n\r\nAre we ready to choose the best candidate?  If so,
    which one is the best one? Finally, who will choose?"
  created: '2005-09-06 18:10:23'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i love alternates! (does there need to be a best <em>one</em>?)
  created: '2005-09-06 18:17:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, somebody might say \"I think this is the best one\", and then we can
    see who agrees/objects, and then the person with that design might become encouraged
    enough to finish it, and maybe even put out a one-glyph font. BTW, there's really
    no reason to limit it to one choice. The only thing I personally think people
    should mind would be to draw the glyph from scratch and not cannibalize contours
    from the original.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I think Kris's is the best so far (considering
    it fits so well with the rest of the font). The main thing I would change is make
    the connection between the top bowl and the join a bit thicker.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-06 18:21:49'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Good topic Hrant mate, almost 1000 reads! People are into it. \r\n\r\n->
    The main thing I would change is make the connection between the top bowl and
    the join a bit thicker.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.klim.co.nz/images/matg2.gif\">Like
    this?</a>\r\n\r\nI don't see anything fundamentally wrong with the Perpetua 'd'.
    I was rather obsessed with the idea for a while. What about changing other glyphs
    to match, <a href=\"http://www.klim.co.nz/images/perpet-a-1.gif\">like the 'a'?</a>"
  created: '2005-09-06 23:05:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> People are into it.\r\n\r\nI think about half -Les Grandes Artistes de
    Notre Ere- are frothing and\r\nfuming though... :-/  It's a good thing anonymous
    posting is off now.\r\n\r\n> Like this?\r\n\r\nLooking great.\r\nI'd just make
    the right side of the link totally vertical.\r\nBTW, that ear is genial - I would've
    never thought of it.\r\n\r\nAlso:\r\nI was going to suggest that you loosen the
    right sidebearing, but then I realized another dimension to this: ideally we want
    any replacement glyph to be uniwidth with the original. Can you work with that?\r\n\r\n>
    I don\u2019t see anything fundamentally wrong with the Perpetua \u2018d\u2019.\r\n\r\nWell,
    chirographers hate it. But of course that is -or at least should be- moot. I however
    do have a problem with it myself: I think it causes a too-prominent spike in texture.
    I've actually caught myself stumbling on it during reading. On the other hand,
    it's certainly an \"inspiring\" glyph, and has played a role in Patria's \"d\".\r\n\r\n>
    What about changing other glyphs to match, like the \u2018a\u2019?\r\n\r\nHeyyyy,
    now that's an idea. That might result in: a more display-like cut; or actually
    making the \"d\" no longer ruin the texture! Go with it man.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-06 23:30:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Kris, I just looked at the latest g & I have to say it feels absolutely authoritative.
    The nice thing about this project is it made me look at the forms in new interestying
    ways. I am all for another charcter/canididate. I would just assumne somebody
    else pick it. I am up to my eyeballs in pre-winter ready-making.\r\n\r\n> I think
    about half -Les Grandes Artistes de Note Ere- are frothing and\r\nfuming though\r\n\r\nWhat
    is a 'Note Ere'? As in 'Not here'? That may be a little too grand. Thats alot
    of folks to have an interest - let alone a negative one.\r\n\r\nI agree about
    the sidebearing.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-07 00:57:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW Kris, your terminal isn't exactly like it should be. If you look at the
    \"s\" you'll see it's more like an isoceles triangle pushed into the end of a
    curve. Yours I actually like better, but it's out of character.\r\n\r\n> What
    is a \u2018Note Ere\u2019?\r\n\r\nI'd missed an \"r\" - sorry - fixed. Meaning:
    \"our era\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-07 01:08:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Kris, speaking of the Perpetua 'd' and your efforts to bring the effect through
    a typeface, over on build, Frank Blokland posted <a href="http://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/PDF/M504/DTL%20Antares_preview.pdf">
    this</a>, which does what you were attempting. It is worked out with admirable
    consistency, but my first impression is that the whole thing really doesn't work.
    What do you think?
  created: '2005-09-07 01:18:58'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: It worked for <a href="http://www.stormtype.com/amor.html">Storm</a> ....
  created: '2005-09-07 01:23:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">It worked for Storm\r\n\r\nThanks for the link. Yes, I like his effort much
    better. His idea of the slight bifurcation in the terminal of the stems makes
    it work better. But I suspect those serifs are too skinny to work well in text."
  created: '2005-09-07 01:54:30'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: Wow, Antares! That is the sort of thing that I was trying to <a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/29/34380.html?1083097117">work
    out with this</a> (the first two images). It has evolved somewhat, but not to
    the degree of Antares. Thanks for putting that up William. I was totally unawares.
  created: '2005-09-07 07:56:46'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "> What about changing other glyphs to match, like the \u2018a\u2019?\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    think the problem with the <em>a</em> is not so much the bottom but the top. Here
    a suggestion for the <a href=\"http://webmaestro.qc.ca/scm/bridge_2.gif\">a and
    the Perpetua d</a>"
  created: '2005-09-07 13:19:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Game over?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-15 19:00:54'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: you're the referee of this one, it seems.
  created: '2005-09-15 19:18:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Only the catalyst, always.\r\nGo ahead, propose a challenge!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-15 19:36:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Maybe a new thread would be better. Paul - you decide since you a have been
    nominated.
  created: '2005-09-16 06:02:32'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Game over of which one : Matrix, Perpetua?\r\n\r\nAs suggested by Eben, I'd
    start a new thread, keep the same name <em>Freestyle Remix Challenge</em> and
    adding the typeface and the glyph for this challenge. For instance : \r\n<strong>Freestyle
    Remix Challenge - Matrix g</strong>. \r\nThat to avoid to have two challenge in
    the same thread."
  created: '2005-09-16 12:49:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: how 'bout if we make this a special interest group if this is going to be
    an ongoing thing?
  created: '2005-09-16 14:09:18'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "OK, What\u2019s the next challenge?"
  created: '2005-09-16 15:40:29'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Oups! I did not see the Special Interest Group was already in use. \r\n\r\nSorry."
  created: '2005-09-16 15:42:06'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: ok, hrant, give us a new challenge <a href="http://typophile.com/forum/55">here</a>.
  created: '2005-09-16 16:07:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, here you go:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15175\r\n\r\nMaybe less clear-cut,
    and more restrictive, but hopefully a worthwhile challenge.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-16 18:43:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So it looks like they finally fixed it:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/emigre/matrix-ii/\r\n\r\nAs
    Tiff would say: Discuss.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-01 04:05:24'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: interesting...
  created: '2007-12-01 04:14:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "(The following was actually posted on August 15 of 2005, but when I tried
    to edit a typo just now it got bumped to current time. So I'm adding this note
    to avoid certain confusion. For the record. Etc, etc, etc. As you were.)\r\n\r\n--------\r\n\r\nI'm
    not a Vendetta kind of guy. Don't scare people away with your self-serving imagination.
    In fact, ever since RvL graciously apologized to me for what some people associated
    with Emigre tried -and failed- to do to me, I've actually been helping them out
    more than pointing out their flaws. When I see something good (like Tarzana) I
    freely point it out. When I see something bad (like the \"Q\" in Tarzana) same
    thing.\r\n\r\n> you jump down my throat.\r\n\r\nI'm not giving you any special
    treatment. But I used to.\r\n(I sincerely hope you can figure out what I just
    wrote.)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI chose Matrix because the contrast between its overall
    merits and that ludicrous \"g\" is greater than any other case that comes to my
    mind. The idea for this thread popped into my head when somebody in another thread
    trashed Matrix outright. But I'm not fixated on Matrix, I really do just want
    to teach/learn. So feel free to suggest another font that's marred by a single
    (or two) horrid glyphs. And I don't mean you in particular, because anybody who
    refuses to crit fonts -for the reason I believe you harbor, the same reason you're
    defending Matrix, and the same reason you turned frigid when Eben suggested you
    provide some Eunoia glyphs for public modification- is unlikely to participate
    in this thread... except of course to sabotage it. Who's jumping down whose throat
    again?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-01 06:16:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It is is improved - and bears some substantial resemblance to what we worked
    on here. I am missing seeing Kris' last version.
  created: '2007-12-01 09:34:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed, it would be very useful to resurrect the attempts submitted here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-01 15:41:27'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Why, Hrant, long time no see. Are ya back?
  created: '2007-12-02 06:08:46'
date: '2005-08-04 21:34:23'
title: Freestyle Remix Challenge

---
