---
author:
  name: timd
  picture: 110125
body: "I have been asked to start a thread to discuss <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/14153\">etiquette</a>
  in the Critique Forum.\r\n\r\nA while back when I first started reading threads
  and joining discussions on Typophile, the Critique Forum was one that had a large
  number of posters and replies, this was during the period when you could post an
  image with your comment and it was visible to all who visited that thread. This
  lead to Critiques which were inundated with images posted from all and sundry that
  deflected from the topic that the thread's creator had intended or desired*. So
  it was agreed (in this <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/26107.html?1077486027\">thread</a>)
  that before anyone could post an image with their suggestion; permission was either
  sought from the thread's creator (or offered in the initial post by the thread's
  creator). There were many reasons presented for this, chief among them \u2013 to
  keep discussions on-topic, and therefore more helpful to the creator of the thread.\r\n\r\nCircumstances
  have changed so is there a consensus for change, or should things remain as they
  were and if so should this information be offered in some way to posters of comments
  in the Critique Forums or indeed further afield.\r\n\r\nMy opinion is that it is
  more useful and supportive to the thread's creator to not post links to images of
  their work reworked or amended for two reasons \r\n1. We can never have the full
  story behind the brief or concept (due to client confidentiality or time)\r\n2.
  It shows a lack of respect to the thread's creator's work (because we can never
  devote the time and thought required)\r\nThere is a positive aspect too, that although
  we are basically image based in a professional sense, it is a useful skill to be
  able to verbalise your criticism.\r\n\r\nThe floor is now open to your opinions
  please feel free to link to images if you feel it will support your point of view.\r\n\r\nTim\r\n\r\n*While
  this can be useful and provoking in a General Discussions thread."
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think the limitation suggested that we communicate in text only unless
    we ask nicely first is too limiting. Reading the link you provided I found that
    the arguements made that suggested a difference between a sketchy kind of work
    & reworking somebody else's design to a finished piece the most compelling. I
    do understand Joes's point about letting them do their own work too. I am sympathetic.
    \r\n\r\nOn the other hand it is too easy to look at something say arbitrarily
    'that looks too finished or not sketchy enough'. Finnished isn't a visual state
    ( no more sketch marks ) it's a decision made by the designer. Deciding what finnished
    is very grey. Selection is also a design function. \r\n\r\nIf sombody uses an
    image I post here I consider it fair game. That is a seperate issue we can talk
    about later.\r\n\r\nThe example I posted to the time design thread wasn't a finnished
    piece of work ( it was pretty weak) - it was an example to explain my own preferences
    in rough form. It might have looked finished to you but that's just your own decision/view.
    A view you are entitled to.\r\n\r\nWhile I think we *could* all agree that asking
    permisssion is best for now, later on some nice fellow/gal will come along & break
    our rule as a result of wanting to help out - A positive kind of common human
    nature. Then somebody will have to have the unpleasant job of letting them know
    that they broke a rule that nobody let them know about in the first place & this
    kind of thread will have to be created again so we can all discuss it again. And
    so on. In the end it isn't practical.\r\n\r\nWe could instead have a list of 'rules/suggestions'
    on Typophile that a new user is shown & can refer later about how they are encouraged
    to behaive on typophile but we don't have that yet. But even if we did, I'm not
    sure it would be a good idea. It would create an additional burden for Joe & Jared
    to deal with when there was a rule breaker. They made Typophile for us & that
    should be enough. They shouldn't be asked to patrol us too. It's too much to ask.
    They have pretty much said so already - if I recall correctly.\r\n\r\nObviously
    you feel strongly about this or you would not have brought it up with me here
    on this thread.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/14153\r\n\r\nOn the other hand,
    I thought that these interactions were mutually interesting/helpful/polite/etc.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/13233\r\n\r\nBefore
    I write any more about this miasmatic but sympathetic topic, I'd like to know
    if anybody objects to what happened in this thread; and most importantly why they
    object. \r\n\r\n> This lead to Critiques which were inundated with images posted
    from all and sundry that deflected from the topic that the thread\u2019s creator
    had intended or desired.\r\n\r\nThis is unfortunate when it happens sometimes,
    for some people; but sometimes it's really helpful or just natural. Redirection/misdirection
    of a thread in and of itself seems like a non-reason for not posting images for
    the reason that it isn't controlable in text or image, and even if it was it wouldn't
    be worth it and in fact it could be more damaging than helpful.\r\n\r\nFor example
    this thread gets away from topic's initial thrust but was quite enjoyable & helpful
    to me at least  - and I started the thread.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/13875\r\n\r\nSo
    far I think the best thing to do is to allow the thread's starter to complain
    if they feel justified. It's simple, effective & isn't a pain to Typophile admin.\r\n\r\nTim,
    I am open to changing my mind - but so far I am utterly unconvinced of the wisdom
    of what you propose even though I am really utterly sympathetic with your motivation
    - that is if am understanding you. \r\n\r\nIn a nutshell, I think you want to
    avoid having one typophile be destructive to another typophile's creative process.
    Correct?\r\n \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-06 21:58:02'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Tim, thanks for starting this thread.\r\n\r\nIn my personal opinion, I think
    that it is perfectly fine for others to post images in critique threads that are
    not theirs. Critique is a two-way street, like any real dialogue. Sometimes, people
    can say things quicker in an image than with words. \r\n\r\nAlso, it would be
    scandalous for anyone on Typophile to \"steal\" someone else's work. I think that
    we can all agree on that. However, everyone should be aware that everything posted
    on Typophile can potentially be seen by the entire world. If one cannot live with
    the possibility that work might get ripped off, they should not post it on the
    internet. (This is not in any way a blank sheet for piracy!)\r\n\r\nBut those
    in the world likely to steal work are probably not the kinds of people who would
    enter into to an online dialog with you about your project. People who give constructive
    visual pointers are friends\u2014or at least casual acquaintances\u2014who are
    taking time to participate in a forum and helping you to make you project better.\r\n\r\nI
    think that, if someone does not want others to post images on his thread, the
    onus is on him. He should state that at the beginning of his thread. Otherwise,
    image editing should be allowed. Some people might not want to post anything though
    on such a \"closed\" thread, but that is their perogative. That's just my view,
    though.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-08-06 23:26:31'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "There's a line between giving a critique and doing someone else's work for
    them. That's always the temptation in a critique to tell someone what to do instead
    of helping them see alternatives or think differently.\r\n\r\nSo, if you think
    an image will communicate better than text then post an image. Just avoid the
    temptation to do the work for them."
  created: '2005-08-07 06:24:01'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "My best drawing and painting teachers at Cooper Union NEVER EVER touched
    any of my work, not because it was \"sacred\" but because they verbalized their
    critiques. Sometimes there is a subconcious tendency to emulate or incorporate
    a teacher or respected designers style into your own. I think good teachers <em>guide
    you</em> as oppose to <em>show you</em>.\r\n\r\n---------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but my style is my own!"
  created: '2005-08-07 06:39:53'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I think a relationship of the sort that Norbert refers to exists in the Critique
    Forum although in the form of colleague to colleague. \r\nThere are justifications
    for images in the forum \u2013 for example, to point out a style of illustration,
    handling of type or to warn that a very similar design already exists. I think
    there is a clear line between that and taking somebody's work and recreating it
    or altering an existing logo to make a point, unless you have prior permission.
    I also believe that  onus of permission should remain on those giving a crit,
    because, putting yourself in the position of a designer who has invited a fellow
    designer into your studio and asked their opinion of your work in progress, I
    suggest that you would not expect them to jump on your computer and make changes
    without asking you first  and that situation is magnified in these forums when
    as a designer you are inviting any passerby to discuss your work.\r\nI agree that
    any form of dishonesty is despicable and that no convention will prevent this.\r\nAs
    to an advice it might be possible that in uploading a comment and a link being
    discovered, a simple message along the lines of \"are you aware of the image posting
    convention\" with a yes/no button where the no button would lead you to an explanation.
    But I do not want to add to anyone's workload.\r\nEben, it is not so much the
    possible destruction of a creative process that I oppose, as a lack of respect
    for the original work, I am not suggesting that was ever your intention, I am
    trying to view this from a hypothetical thread creator's point of view who has
    devoted time and expended energy in their work only to have someone else pick
    it up and alter it. Nor do I wish to limit the efficacy of a critique, I think,
    for example, that the critique on TimeDesign was productive and helpful, including
    your contribution. And as I should have made clear this was never intended as
    a rebuke to you more as a general comment about etiquette although you did cross
    the line in another recent critique when you provided this <a href=\"http://www.eyebytes.com/sevex.jpg\">sample</a>.
    But as I have said, you were unaware of the convention and I believe you were
    acting with the best of intentions.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-08-07 10:23:26'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>lack of respect for the original work</em>\r\n\r\nI just don't believe
    that we really have that here. Typophile is, in a nut shell, a caring community.
    I think that adding  new \"rules\" to discussion (which Typophile, at the moment,
    really does not have) is unnecessary.\r\n\r\nOf course, in a perfect work, everyone
    would just say everything with words. And in most cases, because of the nature
    of the forum, it will almost always be easier and quicker just to type in critique
    instead of going through the hassle of making & uploading an image. But even the
    very idea that image editing in an infringement on the creative process? Must
    this really become an issue?\r\n\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-08-07 11:20:38'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>\u201Crules\u201D to discussion (which Typophile, at the moment, really
    does not have) is unnecessary.</em>\r\n\r\nLet me clarify that. I meant that Typophile
    doesn't really have stated rules, which all new visitors read. I certainly didn't
    mean to imply that Typophile doesn't have any discussion.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-08-07 11:22:01'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Dan,\r\nI don't believe it is an infringement on the creative process, nor
    do I believe that anyone intends a lack of respect when making a critique, more
    that I was taking the position of a thread creator who has already put effort
    into their work and the action of taking that and amending it without invitation
    does not respect their effort nor does it take into account concepts that have
    been considered and rejected.\r\nThe reason I brought this up for discussion is
    that it has been an issue in the past and a convention already exists, it is rare
    that offence is taken but it exists to prevent that occuring. By avoiding that
    situation a critique, in my opinion, will be more productive and helpful. But
    as I said circumstances change, so a review of the convention might be applicable.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-08-07 12:16:13'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: ">Typophile is, in a nut shell, a caring community.\r\n\r\nha ha, that was
    not my experience, I've never posted work in  progress here since."
  created: '2005-08-07 13:23:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think a big reason that some people want to limit crits is a sort of artistic
    insecurity. The main point of design should be to help others, and when other
    people try to help you do that, that's a good thing, even if your balloon gets
    a little bit deflated.\r\n\r\nMiles, you'll be glad to know that the anonymous
    lynch mob has been exiled.\r\nPlease do post again.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 17:48:52'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Bingo, Hrant, on both points!\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-08-07 18:16:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> you would not expect them to jump on your computer and make changes without
    asking you first and that situation is magnified in these forums when as a designer
    you are inviting any passerby to discuss your work.\r\n\r\nThis is in no way a
    similar thing to posting a modified image. First of all there is a very real security
    issue - there in a studio it exists - here does not. Secondly there is data integrity/damage
    issue. There in the studio it would be a serious issue - here on typophile it's
    no issue at all.\r\n\r\nI think you didn't mean this in quite so litteral a way
    probably - you wanted to get at the emotional impact of that kind of act. Correct?\r\n\r\n>
    My best drawing and painting teachers at Cooper Union NEVER EVER touched any of
    my work, not because it was \u201Csacred\u201D but because they verbalized their
    critiques. Sometimes there is a subconcious tendency to emulate or incorporate
    a teacher or respected designers style into your own. I think good teachers guide
    you as oppose to show you.\r\n\r\nAgain, this isn't a phyisical room. It isn't
    the same thing. Unlike your studio example where there were disadvantages aplenty
    to somebody getting on your computer, Norbert points out all the advantages to
    in-person meeting! I think Norbert makes your point best. I agree that ideally
    & with gesture as an aid - maybe chalk on a board or pen on pad - you need never
    touch work in progress. And I agree that that spirit aught to be what guides us
    here. Excellent point.\r\n\r\n> as a lack of respect for the original work\r\n\r\nHow
    do you arrive at this? The phrasing to me it suggests that something is done before
    it really is. Like somebody wants a crit but maybe not too much of one. \r\n\r\n>
    I believe you were acting with the best of intentions.\r\n\r\nThanks - I think
    you are too. So far we don't agree yet - but thats okay. I think smaller points
    asside we disagree on three things.\r\n\r\n- 1. That altering a logo to make a
    point is sometimes the only way to show an idea effectively. I think it is sometimes
    and you aught to be do it without permission as part of a the free flow of ideas
    and that it is not harmful per se. You do not agree.\r\n\r\n-2. That 'the convention'
    of asking permission before offering a modified image has existed at in the maybe
    8 months or so. You clearly think it has. I think it has not.\r\n\r\n- 3 ( & most
    importantly) : That it is possible for a 'convention' of the kind you suggest
    to exist unless there is significant social adhesion to that convention. You think
    it can - I do not.\r\n\r\nIn the end I think point 3 is the most important because
    what you & I think indvidually isn't  going to make a huge difference to this
    issue from a practical point of view. What's going to count is what everybody
    else thinks & the acts and the direction they take. I think your intention is
    positive and despite some misgivings about some of the analogies you have used
    I am sympathetic to the spirit of what you propose. \r\n\r\nLet me suggest an
    imperfect compromise - Perhaps we can mostly agree ( & that is all that counts
    ) that while we can't & don't want to control what folks do here, we do think
    that ideally speaking modification of somebody else's work aught in general be
    done as a last resort to try to explain an idea. And we should avoid the temptation
    to do work for them.\r\n\r\nPerhaps that can be the 'convention' to the extent
    that one is possible.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 21:44:10'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Hmmmmm...\r\nso over a year ago Kevan Davis and Typophile were mentioned
    in a Slate/MSN article called <a href=\"http://slate.msn.com/id/2104087/\"><strong>\"Art
    Mobs\"</strong></a> about online collaboration.\r\n\r\nI'm not up on the latest
    browser based real-time collaboration programs. Is there something (inexpensive)
    that allows for on screen notations? I do know of several network based programs
    that synchronize and update files within workgroups, but that's not what I mean.
    \r\n\r\nIt would be cool if a hosted image could be placed on the screen and we
    could see \"red marker\" notations in real-time. Sort of a virtual chalkboard.\r\n\r\n---------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-08-08 01:13:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> red marker\u201D notations in real-time\r\n\r\nThat would be *very* cool.
    It would eliminate much of the image posting we choose to do - but not all of
    it. \r\n\r\nAnd it would nothing to change the essentially grey quality of personal
    judgement required to meet your & Joes sense of what aught to be done & how far
    it should go. Personal judgement isn't ever something that structure or technology
    can relieve us of. You can still go 'too far' with a red marker be it in real
    time or with a delay."
  created: '2005-08-08 02:59:20'
- author:
    name: BartvanderGriendt
    picture: 109896
  body: "Is there a fundamental difference between the sentence 'try moving that letter
    slightly to the right' and an image showing the same thing?\r\n\r\nIn my opinion,
    putting up your work here is in itself a way of permitting people to influence
    your design. Whether they do so in words or images is not the problem.\r\n\r\nI
    think etiquette is relevant to the content of the critique. \r\n\r\n--------------------------------------\r\nMy
    work is a game. A very serious game [M.C. Escher]"
  created: '2005-08-08 09:07:05'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<cite>I think Norbert makes your point best. I agree that ideally & with
    gesture as an aid - maybe chalk on a board or pen on pad - you need never touch
    work in progress.</cite>\r\nNorbert's point, as I read it, is that his teachers
    used verbal critique.\r\n\r\n<cite>> as a lack of respect for the original work\r\nHow
    do you arrive at this? The phrasing to me it suggests that something is done before
    it really is. Like somebody wants a crit but maybe not too much of one.</cite>
    \r\nI am referring to the work that is done before we get to see a sample as well
    as the result, the amount of work might or might not be obvious, but I believe
    that in all cases some has taken place that we are not party to.\r\n\r\n<cite>-
    1. That altering a logo to make a point is sometimes the only way to show an idea
    effectively. I think it is sometimes and you aught to be do it without permission
    as part of a the free flow of ideas and that it is not harmful per se. You do
    not agree.</cite>\r\nAs designers we should be aware that it is not the \u2018only
    way\u2019, however, if you feel that it is the case, what harm is done to the
    process by asking permission and waiting?\r\n\r\n<cite>-2. That \u2018the convention\u2019
    of asking permission before offering a modified image has existed at in the maybe
    8 months or so. You clearly think it has. I think it has not.</cite>\r\nI have
    made and repeated the point that I believe you were unaware of the convention,
    so clearly, you would think it has not.\r\n\r\n<cite>- 3 ( & most importantly)
    : That it is possible for a \u2018convention\u2019 of the kind you suggest to
    exist unless there is significant social adhesion to that convention. You think
    it can - I do not.</cite>\r\nI am missing your point here\r\n\r\nLet me repeat
    that the only purpose behind pointing out the convention was to avoid situations
    like the one that discouraged Miles away from posting in the forum not any lack
    of security, artistic or otherwise, I think it has to be taken as read that anyone
    planning to appropriate another's design will do it whatever the circumstance.\r\nTim\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 14:46:39'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "This is a bit longer than I planned, but I think we're getting a bit side-tracked
    on what makes the visual critiquing work or not work.\r\n\r\nI've been reading/participating
    in the crits for nearly 2 years now, and I've seen a lot of examples of good crits,
    bad crits, timid crits (no one wants to hurt any feelings), and abusive ones (it's
    only about hurt feelings). I don't think giving visual examples has anything to
    do with it. It's the people posting and the people critiquing and their respect
    for each other's appropriate role in the process.\r\n\r\nSome people who post
    for crits here are showing nearly-complete work, others are showing raw prelims,
    and some are just lost and need help getting direction. This can be tricky, as
    some people just want impressions to measure responses and others want explicit
    guidance to implement. When the critiquing posters and the critiqued poster have
    different goals, it can get ugly. Sometimes visual examples are perfect, sometimes
    the examples are redesigns, and the project is virtually stolen and redesigned
    by another designer. This can create tension and anger. This makes sense, and
    it should be avoided by not redesigning the project for the posting designer.
    It's a crit and we aren't the art directors for the project, just professional
    advice.\r\n\r\nI treat crits here exactly the same way I do in a studio with other
    designers. I've never had someone shriek when I take a pen to their laser printout,
    and I don't expect it here. I can write 5 paragraphs trying to describe 3 simple
    visual adjustments, so why not take 2 minutes to throw something together? 90%
    of the visual examples are exactly that: adjustments or examples for clarity.
    I don't give people high-res EPSs to use, just like my drawing mentor would never
    draw directly on my work. He would draw on a piece of tracing paper, to show me
    how, then let me do it for myself. It's a visual medium. It's <em>graphic</em>
    design.\r\n\r\nThe most important rule, for me, is to stay focused on the work
    of the designers seeking a crit and only give as much as is necessary to help
    the designer and their project. I don't critique the visual suggestions by others
    involved in the crit. If the designer seeking the crit chooses a path I don't
    like, I still try to give whatever advice I believe will aid their stated goals.
    Those posting should be professional enough to accept that not everyone will agree
    on any design and will be honest about it. And those critiquing should be professional
    enough to respect the designer's autonomy without sniping or hijacking their project."
  created: '2005-08-08 15:35:20'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: A critique is a critique. If you are asking for one, then I would expect you
    to be prepared for any feedback. Suggestions are part of a critique. Having to
    ask for permission to suggest something visually is rather absurd, IMHO.
  created: '2005-08-08 15:47:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Darrel just gave me an idea:\r\nInstead of putting the onus on the critic
    (since we need to encourage them as much as possible anyway), put it on the asker.
    Make the \"unwritten rule\" or whatever that the person asking for a crit has
    to specify he doesn't want images, or whatever.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 18:03:18'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Dan & Hrant,\r\nI think that is turning out to be the best solution.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-08-08 18:26:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I agree - that is the most practical & realistic. And it can probably reduce
    (but not eliminate) the chances of feelings being hurt, disrespect being preceived
    etc. \r\n\r\n> I think etiquette is relevant to the content of the critique.\r\n\r\nBart
    van der Griendt puts it well -  I think this is the nub of the thing. It's not
    a question of marking up somebody's work or not per se; it's how you do that,
    your intent & the perception of that intent. All important to be sure - but quite
    grey. Two people of good intent may disagree legitimately over how a crit should
    best be done or if a posted image crosses some kind of line of ettiquette.\r\n\r\nSpecification
    of what you want & don't want in a crit when you start a thread may not insulate
    you perfectly but it at least gives the person giving a crit some idea of how
    to approach things."
  created: '2005-08-08 19:20:33'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "\"It would be cool if a hosted image could be placed on the screen and we
    could see \u201Cred marker\u201D notations in real-time. Sort of a virtual chalkboard.\"\r\n\r\nFunny
    you mentioned this Norbert, I was envisioning the same idea a few days ago for
    working on long distance collaborative projects. "
  created: '2005-08-08 20:25:54'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "<em>the person asking for a crit has to specify he doesn\u2019t want images</em>\r\n\r\nEven
    going way back to art school, I can't think of a critique session where pens and
    paper weren't present. Why would I be offended if someone explained their critique
    verbally rather than via text?"
  created: '2005-08-08 21:31:39'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: er...VISUALLY rather than via text...
  created: '2005-08-08 21:35:53'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'I try to focus on the business goals of designs and allow the type designers
    with better eyes critique letter spacing. I find a lot of designs, are good designs,
    but the designer never got a good marketing reports and therefore there are gaps
    in the design that would more likely focus it on solving the communication goal(s).
    I don''t post my thoughts as examples, only my word thoughts/directions. I''m
    not in the room with the client, nor do I believe my taste is the end all, say
    all. Just based on my years of experience I hope to guide some of the posters
    in thinking about things like end-users (demographics), visual environments, etc. '
  created: '2005-08-08 22:22:54'
- author:
    name: beejay
    picture: 110460
  body: "I haven't followed Typophile closely enough since the redesign to know what's
    up in the critique forum, but I did start that original thread. The reason I started
    it was because there were a lot of unsolicited jpgs being posted without even
    a thought. I was guilty of that, too. I remember a critique thread where someone
    was having trouble with a logo, and I saw a solution, did it up in Illustrator,
    and posted it, as if to say, Here's an easy solution to your problem. I soon realized
    that this was not the most effective way to give a critique. (Imagine if all of
    us posted our versions of a logo in a critique thread.) I think quick sketches
    are okay, if the suggestions cannot easily be described. But with the IM function,
    there's really no reason not to ask. I agree with the points made by Tim ...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 03:27:13'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "I just started a search for 'real-time web-based graphics software.' All
    are welcome to join the hunt. I find this thread very interesting BTW. Maybe we
    can get some structure in here. Hopefully one day Typophile v2 will be fully functional
    WOO! and we can start evolving how we crit.\r\n\r\nEric\r\n\r\n... I'll start
    a new thread for ideas ..."
  created: '2005-08-10 03:29:52'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "That would really add a new level to critiques and collaborations. Hopefully
    we can all respect what guidelines are needed and not start any free-for-all marker
    fights!  Hmmmm... did my suggestion let Pandora out of the box? She should be
    thinking out-of-the-box anyway!\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but give me a red marker and WHOOHAA!"
  created: '2005-08-10 04:42:11'
date: '2005-08-06 20:20:40'
node_type: forum
title: Etiquette in the Critique Forum

---
