---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "I hadn't realized for months that the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/forum/1\">Critique
  Forum</a> was alive and well until it was recently pointed out to me. The reason
  is that there is no post record column to the right of it lie there is for all the
  other forums in the \"Forums\" landing page. Is there a reason for this? To me it
  is helpful to see the most recent post and time to cue me to go check it. I know
  we are still in Beta and I don't mean to cause a fuss.  I am just asking.\r\n\r\nChris"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Don't ask why but I meant to type \"as\" and somehow it came out \"lie\"
    in my post above.\r\n\r\n-----\r\nI may be old but my typing sucks :-)  \r\n[sorry
    Norbert. I had to borrow your sig.]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-07 02:40:51'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Chris, the best way to keep track of everything, or at least attempt it, is
    to check "active discussions". At least that is how I've decided to watch the
    boards.
  created: '2005-08-07 03:48:51'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nI always use the \"<a href=\"http://typophile.com/tracker\">Recent
    Posts</a>\" as my bookmark which makes it a lot easier to see what's hot and what's
    not.\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------------\r\nYes, I'm old, but
    ChrisL is OLDER!"
  created: '2005-08-07 05:42:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I've never been interested in the Critique forum.
  created: '2005-08-07 16:46:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: why is that, nick?
  created: '2005-08-07 17:14:36'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Yeah, Nick, is it really so bad?\r\n\r\nActually, it would most certainly
    be better if you were interested in it. But I don't think that anyone should be
    cajoled into using the forum or anything ;-)\r\n\r\nSome of the work that gets
    posted there is quite good, and worth a look. Like Paul's posts, for instance.\r\n\r\nSome
    of it is not as interesting, but there are lots of threads in General Discussion
    that I don't follow either, so\u2026\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-08-07 18:18:11'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: A lot of people use this site to gain experience and knowledge. I think its
    kind of a travesty that more people aren't involved in the critique section. How
    is anyone new to the field to learn if people aren't willing to share their knowledge?
  created: '2005-08-07 19:20:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">why is that, nick?\r\n\r\nI don't visit the other forums either, except
    maybe Build or Design occasionally.\r\n\r\nGeneral is more interesting.\r\nBut
    not being able to post pictures into the threads is a real drag. The old Typophile
    was much better because of that.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 19:39:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...always use the \u201CRecent Posts\u201D ...\"\r\nNow knowing that the
    Critique site is live, there is no problem for me.  My question is more about
    why is the Critique area treated differently than Design or General? I just wonder
    why, when developing a hopefully consistant user interface, one would choose to
    treat Critique as a child of a lesser God?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-07 19:39:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">people aren\u2019t willing to share their knowledge?\r\n\r\nMost people
    have difficulty explaining how they do what they do. For those that are able,
    it's still a lot of work."
  created: '2005-08-07 19:43:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "How is for example telling nepenthe where to look for\r\ninspiration on his
    italics, or that his \"S\" leans too much:\r\n1) Difficult to explain?\r\n2) Timeconsuming?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 19:48:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"forum topic\tkisbefe2\tgrod\t21\t59 min 15 sec ago\"\r\n\r\nBack on topic:
    Above is the way Critiques posts look in the \"Recent Posts\" view.  Unless I
    had already been there, I would not know that \"kisbefe2\" was a font up for critiques
    under Critique/Sans Serf.  \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-07 22:04:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I agree with Chris ( dezcom ). Let the critique forum rise to the level of
    general! This is no doubt easier said than done.\r\n\r\n Jared, Joe?"
  created: '2005-08-07 22:16:40'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "In my opinion \u2014 the Critique is dead (even with  post record column).
    \r\nwhy? \r\n\r\nsee the why:  \" How is anyone new to the field to learn if people
    aren\u2019t willing to share their knowledge?\"\r\n\r\nthis is simple. sharp.
    clear. and SAD. \r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 22:18:39'
- author:
    name: Forrest L Norvell
    picture: 109561
  body: "Tina, I've seen your sentiment expressed a few times lately, and while the
    critique forums could be livelier than they are, I think you're being a bit unfair.\r\n\r\nIt's
    easy to chime in on general topics, mostly because we're just spouting off our
    opinions. It's a lot closer to casual conversation than any formal kind of discourse,
    and while a lot of information is shared, not a lot of deep thought is required
    to participate. The type identification forums are as lively as they are because
    the regular posters have turned it into a competition, which makes it a fun and
    addictive experience for them.\r\n\r\nProviding useful feedback, on the other
    hand, is hard. I participate in the font critique forums as often as I can, because
    I always find the experience at least as educational to me as the person I'm critiquing.
    It's enlightening to puzzle out why I have certain kinds of reactions to certain
    features in a font. But it still takes time, and given how casual and informal
    a lot of the participation is on Typophile, it doesn't surprise me that there's
    not more participation in critiques.\r\n\r\nIt would be cool if the critique threads
    were livelier, but I think it's a bit unfair to suggest that the Critique area
    is dead. Was my feedback on your new typeface not useful to you?"
  created: '2005-08-07 22:27:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well, people do share. This is a fair amount of good critiquing going on
    in the critique forum. I have a feeling that there used to be more.\r\n\r\nI wish
    more contributors would contribute, but dead the forum is not.\r\n\r\nWhat could
    we do to increase traffic?\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-08-07 22:28:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>What could we do to increase traffic?</em>\r\n\r\nmake action in the
    critique forums more visible. since i don't get email replies any more and the
    rss feeder only sends the first message of new threads (correct me if i'm wrong)
    and the new posts don't show up on the main forums page, i rarely think to check
    to see if anything is new. my new metod of keeping up involves just scanning the
    forums page to see what sections have had recent posts."
  created: '2005-08-07 22:44:08'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I try to look at all new threads, or all new posts to older threads at least,
    via the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/tracker\">Tracker</a>, which I like a lot.\r\n\r\n__\r\nwww.typeoff.de"
  created: '2005-08-07 23:03:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul Hunt's post is exactly what I am talking about and what prompted me
    to begin this thread. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-07 23:09:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Actually, the first thing that brought my attention to it was the Membership
    Termination post http://typophile.com/node/14249 where the originator was dissapointed
    that he had not been getting critiques.  I, at the time, had not even seen his
    font posted for critique. Until the new version of Typophile, I had been a regular
    poster in the Critique area both as a critiquer and a critiquee.  Since I had
    percieved the area to be unavailable, I had not paid attention to it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-07 23:18:19'
- author:
    name: adriano
    picture: 110264
  body: I believe Nick said it all, the previous version of typophile we could browse
    more visualy, one click and we could see the images of the works. This current
    version we have to click a lot more and therefore we "see less stuff". I think
    this feature on this new typophile would be A LOT better for all. Is that difficult
    to implement? If the file is uploades I guess it's not difficult to pace it with
    the [img] [/img] rather than a link...
  created: '2005-08-07 23:23:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Tracker is the only way [for now]. BTW, one reason the Critique section
    doesn't show \"Last Post\" on the front page is most probably that it has subfolders.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I'm pretty sure I never saw fontsoldat's thread when it was first posted. Maybe
    just a system hiccup. But of course I wonder what other syllables we've missed
    in the Great Conversation.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 02:17:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I too agree with nick. It would be great to be able to post images agin. Maybe
    it was too expensive to support the bandwidth. But if we could have it back it
    would be a great boon.
  created: '2005-08-08 02:52:23'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: images will come back. just no access at this current time. hopefully once
    all is back in place, critiques will be better followed.
  created: '2005-08-08 03:24:15'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Hrant correctly pointed out that the critique statistics aren't surfacing
    to the top level index because there are sub categories (sub folders). This is
    an unfortunate bug.\r\n\r\nImage posting and search were the hottest bugs being
    addressed. Search has been implemented and image posting is very close. Honestly
    the only aspect that has us from pushing the feature live is the fact that we
    cannot yet control what happens when people post overly wide images -- currently
    it would blow out the page widths (column widths) again. So, which peeve is worse,
    not seeing images in-line or having your column widths blown to full screen? Right
    then. The only answer is to implement the image posting the right way...\r\n\r\nOld
    versus new. I know some people still miss the old site -- I don't. The reality
    of the situation is that the system was choking on itself. The database actually
    stored HTML pages instead of raw content -- a recipe for bloating badly. Consider
    the fact that when Christian ported the data from the old system to the new he
    deleted a gigabyte of the \"DoNotLookLikeCrap\" style tags (and that was just
    the style tags!). \r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 10:07:20'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "That was the housekeeping stuff, so I could get to the good stuff... Driving
    traffic to the critique.\r\n\r\nWe've asked our newest moderator Dan Reynolds
    to help the situation by pointing out the best fonts currently up for critique.
    He will be able to do this by flagging the best ones too be served up on the home
    page in the \"Handpicked\" column.\r\n\r\nSomething we tried over a year ago was
    live chat sessions with a live critique. We'd select a font in the critique forum
    and invite the designer to prepare some additional materials for a Thursday lunchtime
    live critique session. Then during the designated hour we'd have at it. I know
    the people who got critiqued really valued it. There was also something cool about
    it being more of an event, with everybody participating at the same time.\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you think? Is there any interest in this?"
  created: '2005-08-10 10:13:35'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I think that this ia a great idea (live critique) Does the software of the
    new Typophile support that, or would it have to be done over forum or iChat or
    ?\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 12:23:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Live crit sounds like a terrific idea. I think that the font in question
    should be posted a few days ahead of time so commenters  can have a chance to
    think about it an collect helpful links.  The only other question is timing.  We
    are a worldwide bunch--when is the \"best time\" to do it?\r\n\r\nBack to image
    size--is there a way to reject posting an image if it is over the max width you
    want?  Can there be an error message which says something like \"images may not
    exceed x pixels by x pixels\"? After that, a hand come out of the screen and slaps
    you silly :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-10 13:19:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Search has been implemented\r\n\r\nFully?\r\nBecause sometimes I can't
    find stuff that I know has been there.\r\n\r\n> which peeve is worse, not seeing
    images in-line or\r\n> having your column widths blown to full screen?\r\n\r\nTo
    me at least, definitely the former. I'm a content guy.\r\n\r\nBTW, I personally
    no longer miss the old site. But if you fixed the RSS (I mean for real, so that
    all posts show up) that would save me a lot of overhead time. The old emailed-posts
    scheme was a huge benefit.\r\n\r\n> flagging the best ones too be served up on
    the home page\r\n\r\nDoes anybody actually go there though?\r\n\r\n> live critique\r\n\r\nGreat
    idea, but only if you have a moderator.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 15:29:04'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "When's the best time? Peak traffic times on Typophile suggest that mid-week
    (Tues, Wed or Thurs) is best. Also, peak traffic suggests the window between 11
    am and 2 pm Pacific (2 and 5 pm Eastern) are most active times.\r\n\r\nA truly
    live session isn't possible (I'd say \"yet\" but I'm afraid to make promises).
    We've looked into chat modules but the real difficulty is finding something that
    works with people's existing usernames. Aside from something truly live, I would
    expect the critique would be greatly improved if we simply took the steps of <strong>a)</strong>
    designating Thursday critique day and <strong>b)</strong> have a moderator (Dan!)
    alert people to the brightest work up for critique.\r\n\r\nPerhaps Dan could add
    a tag to the critique subject lines similar to the way Yves adds (x) to the Type
    IDs that are completed. A subject might look like \"Magnitude - THURSDAY CRIT\".
    (Then when it's over we can change the subject line back.)"
  created: '2005-08-11 08:17:20'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "2pm Eastern is 8pm Central European Time. 7\u201311 pm C.E.T. is my prime
    time, as I usually home from work or class. \r\n\r\nI can't speak for other middle
    European residents, though But I guess that evenings are OK for anyone without
    family bounds\u2026\r\n\r\nI think that making Thursday \"Typophile critique day\"
    is an excellent idea. We could start right away (err\u2026 meaning next Thursday,
    instead of today). What if we selected one work from each category (or there abouts\u2026)?\r\n\r\nAnother
    question: do \"Logos/Corporate ID Design\" and \"Typography/Composition\" <em>need</em>
    a crit day? Those zones are quite popular already, but they aren't typeface related,
    per se. Are we prioritizing, or trying to boost everything equally?\r\n\r\nIf
    anyone has any suggestions (including your own work) for crit day, I'm all eyes.
    Otherwise I'll propably be picking those that catch my attention\u2026"
  created: '2005-08-11 09:19:04'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Why not have regional people host shows like Dan at hours x-z on Tuesday and
    Hrant at hours x-z on Thursday etc. It would localize the forums but it might
    create topics that would be picked up by the other hosted forums.
  created: '2005-08-11 11:51:59'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Dan, I think that we need to drive up post volume first. Then, we can have
    multiple hot-times later. Me and three other posters on Tuesday afternoon (before
    the west coast readers even wake up!) really wouldn't be so productive, I think.
  created: '2005-08-11 11:58:12'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I already posted this in the 'bug thread', but maybe it's better here. One
    way to increase the views, and hence posting to critiques would be to reduce the
    number of categories, and put them in the main list, so that activity would show
    up on the front page.  \r\n\r\nAt the bottom of the page you could have a 'critiques'
    subtitle, and then the following categories: Serif; Sans serif; Script, Bitmap
    & Blackletter; Logos & Corporate ID; Typography & Composition. Also on the main
    list Build & Release could be combined, based on the numbers. \r\n\r\nThus you
    would have only 5 more lines on the front page, and get indications of activity.
    Or you could put it as Critique: Serif,\r\nCritique: Sans Serif, etc., and have
    only four more lines. Thus you would still see everything on the opening screen
    of the Forums. \r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 14:25:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Good idea William!  You ARE a Mench after all :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-11 14:53:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The timing should probably be similar to the ideal closing time of eBay auctions:
    midweek, around 10 AM PST. This allows Europe to participate too, and the Right
    Coast will be around lunchtime.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 17:31:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: ">> One way to increase the views, and hence posting to critiques would be
    to reduce the number of categories, and put them in the main list, so that activity
    would show up on the front page.\r\n\r\n> Good idea William! You ARE a Mench after
    all :-)\r\n\r\nThat gets my vote too! \r\n\r\nIs there any reason NOT to do it
    that way? It seems like the obvious & simple solution."
  created: '2005-08-11 18:51:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Bitmap & Blackletter; Logos & Corporate ID; Typography & Composition\r\n\r\nHmmm.
    I'd much rather see Logos, Composition, etc. bunched together.\r\nThey're more
    peripheral to Typophile, and get too much attention anyway.\r\n\r\n> Build & Release
    could be combined\r\n\r\nGood idea.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 18:54:52'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>> Build & Release could be combined</em>\r\n\r\nmaybe these should just
    be renamed. I know that tiff uses these categories in a way that is loosely based
    on what they were intended for: build for any technical related problems and release
    for the leagal end of things. in my book these two aspects are far enough apart
    to warrant their own sections."
  created: '2005-08-11 19:21:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">far enough apart\r\n\r\nI agree. It's just a question of what compromise
    works best. Given the number of posts, I think a combined category could accomodate
    say two or three active 'build' threads and one active 'release' thread, which
    is what tends to happen. I am also grateful for Tiffany's leadship on the EULA
    issue. "
  created: '2005-08-11 20:45:24'
date: '2005-08-07 02:36:49'
node_type: forum
title: Why no recent poster on Critique forum?

---
