---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "A while ago there was a debate going on about Chirography in roman texts and
  Hrant suggested/stated that Chirography was antithetical to good Notan in letter/type
  design. Thinking about this I wrote at the time that Japanese Caligraphy seems to
  have both & without suffering for it - especially when it is exceptionally good.
  The greatest Japanese Caligraphy I know of ( and I am not *so* educated about this
  so feel free to post your own examples ) is the Caligraphy of the swordsman Teshsu.
  Here are some pages about him. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.traditionaloshigata.com/articles/Tesshu.htm\r\nhttp://www.daito-ryu.org/kako3.html\r\n\r\nI
  have also atteched some scans from a book I re-found recently. Check em out. 001
  is actually not Teshsu's but his teacher's. Pretty fine too - no?\r\n\r\nWhat I
  wanted to point out is that in these examples there is tremendous flow, beautiful
  balance and assorted other caligraphic virtues. And beautiful notan. It seems to
  me that contrary to Hrants assertions, great notan & chirography should be able
  to exist in a roman typeface as long as beautiful notan is one of the variables
  being striven for. It may be that this was only seriously possible with roman caligraphy
  until recently because of the compromises inherent in a metal & then electronic
  & finally digital type design - but with Open type it seems like a caligraphic level
  sensitivity to letter relations (both shape & placement) and therefore notan is
  quite possible now. Bello seems like an early example to me.\r\n\r\nBeing just a
  budding typophile I may be making a hash of this set of ideas - but this is what
  I am thinking today. I invite further comment & greater enlightenment."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Towards the Display end of the Display-Text axis, I agree. But:\r\n1) The
    Text end drifts away from conscious, superficial appreciation.\r\n2) I would ask
    the loaded, quasi-rhetorical question: what is Beauty?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 03:10:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Beauty is truth and truth beauty . . .\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-07 04:01:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> Towards the Display end of the Display-Text axis, I agree.\r\n\r\nWell,
    thats something anyway!\r\n\r\nThe remaining thing is to talk about text faces.
    \r\n\r\n> The Text end drifts away from conscious, superficial appreciation.\r\n\r\nDo
    you mean unconscious? \r\n\r\n> I would ask the loaded, quasi-rhetorical question:
    what is Beauty?\r\n\r\nYes. yes. Of course I did probably use that word a bit
    much in my post. I am not sure what to substitute. For now let's say attractive
    - engaging to the eye. That is something you could even measure by jingo! Not
    that I think that's essentuial about it for a minute.\r\n\r\nI would certainly
    admit that the most flowing/energetic examples I showed are most similar to display
    text in that they are show personality. The more rigorous example on the other
    hand (003) is a model of clarity. It does not however lack chirographic influence
    or notanic sensitivity. Admittedly it has a kind of monospaced quality to it because
    of the grid used which complicates the analogy quite a bit.\r\n\r\nStill looking
    at it I feel like there is room for a chirographic forms to have notan that isn't
    compromised but enhanced even in a text face. It's nothing I can 'proove' until
    I do it myself or notice somebody doing. My main point is that chirography and
    Gerrit's ideas about a moving black front are not be the same thing. These examples
    show chirography & notan working to reinforce each other.\r\n\r\nIn a similar
    vein, do you think that subtle variations in font shape add to the readability
    of a text? \r\n\r\nLike this\r\n\r\nhttp://www.letterror.com/foundry/kosmik/index.html\r\n\r\nOkay
    not so subtle in this case but - That is the claim made by Erik van Blokland about
    Kosmic. His examples were pretty convincing to me. However with opentype the switching
    could be deliberate rather than random and the changes might be much more subtle.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I am saying is you could have this & notan too. This kind of thing is certainly
    chiorographically inspired.\r\n\r\nSo maybe if the historical sense of chirography
    & an enhanced reading experience are opposed ( still not sure about that yet myself
    ) it isn't so much notan that's the reason, except maybe an artifact of western
    design history. \r\n\r\nMaybe what you object to is only the restriction in form
    that can arise when designing a roman font with a historicly chirographic/black
    centric sense of *shape*. This historic tendency/prejudice isn't the sam thing
    as chirography per se & particularly not the same thing as chirography in the
    context of caligraphic practices/sensibilities/virtues. Western Caligraphy can
    be all about notan too. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 04:53:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Oh yeah, *AND*\r\n\r\nI wonder if caligraphic chirography might not lend
    some 'flow' to what can sometimes be be pretty lifeless - text faces. I find more
    & more the fonts I like best both text & otherwise have a sense of flow be it
    chirographic in nature or otherwise. But that might be a new thread."
  created: '2005-08-07 05:09:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not lend some \u2018flow\u2019 to what can sometimes be be pretty lifeless
    - text faces.\r\n\r\nNice. I think you're on to something there. The pen (or brush)
    moves, the eye moves. I am starting to feel that there is a deep connection between
    writing and reading that makes it good to have that sense of motion in type. In
    other words, G. Noordzij had something basically right about the 'moving front'
    being important to type design. \r\n\r\nJohn Hudson, writing over in the build
    forum in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/14228\">this thread</a>, says that
    the sense of greater speed of writing is something he now tries to get into the
    italic. But a sense of motion is valuable in the Roman as well, I suspect. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-08-07 16:23:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there is a deep connection between writing and reading\r\n\r\nWhat is it,
    exactly? Is there also a connection between footprints and reading? Hey, why doesn't
    anybody do footsy calligraphy? I mean people with arms.\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/3253168.stm\r\n\r\nThis
    \"movement\" business is stuck in the conscious\r\nrealm, where text type only
    spends its holidays.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 17:53:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More: Gary Munch's justification for chirography is that gestures are important
    in personal communication. Sure. Except I don't know about you, but I use my mouth
    more than my hands during personal communication. Which means of course that chirographers
    should be using their lips to manipulate their pens. Chilography! Hey, make it
    chiloglaphy, and there's your oriental connection... ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 18:54:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Chilography? Type designed by mouth it must be... But oriental conection?
    Please explain.\r\n\r\n> Nice. I think you\u2019re on to something there. The
    pen (or brush) moves, the eye moves.\r\n\r\nMaybe...\r\n\r\nSorry - I wanted to
    suggest two things and judging by the responses here  I can see that I haven't
    - yet. \r\n\r\n1. That maybe the eastern caligrapher's model  - one that is very
    aware of notan - can apply more to western caligraphy despite differences in materials
    & 'pens' and that notan aware typography created in open type might well result
    - a good thing I think*. \r\n\r\n2. That if we are talking about a text face the
    idea of flow in the design need not be chirographically inspired ( but it could
    be ) - but that it is in my opinion ( today anyway ) that this flow makes for
    a livelier face as long as it is moderate or even subtle. \r\n\r\nI suppose that
    what I am saying is that whereas some chirographicaly inspited type & caligraphy
    seems to have been 'written' slowly and resists the rapid movement of my eye because
    it is too rigid - other type & caligraphy ( eastern & western) seems to have been
    written with greater speed - and as long as it has great focus & notan, it seems
    to carry my eye faster, easier & more pleasantly.\r\n\r\nI know that the debate
    lines about readability chirography etc have been set for a long time here on
    Typophile - but I am trying to disentangle some distinct ideas that I think have
    ben bound together by tradition & history to disrupt what I see as a somewhat
    stagnant arguement and suggest a possibly fruitful new direction. \r\n\r\nHubris?
    Me?\r\n\r\n* This idea is different than an endorsement of a 'moving front' idea
    per se. It certainly seems so to me. Also to be fair I still haven't received
    a copy of letterletter so I can't say I understand the idea in any other way than
    from reading posts on typophile. A poor substitute. So I can't really endorse
    something I haven't read yet anyway."
  created: '2005-08-07 22:11:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I found this by accident today. I think it suggests that Evert Bloemsma was
    thinking about improvement of faces via substitutions too:\r\n\r\nhttp://groups.msn.com/FontLab/general.msnw?action=get_message&mview=0&ID_Message=1472&LastModified=4675407696735913723\r\n\r\nThe
    thread starts:\r\n\r\n\" Dear FontLab.msn members,\r\n\r\nI hope to find a feature
    that replaces two specific characters\r\nby TWO (not ONE like a ligature!) other
    specific characters.\r\n\r\nFor example:\r\n\"a\"+\"b\" is replaced by \"_a\"
    + \"ab\".\r\n\r\nThis in order to let the shape of the previous character depend\r\non
    the next/following character.\r\nAll features I found replace two characters by
    one single\r\ncharacter, am I right?\"\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 23:55:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The connection between reading and writing is probably similar to the connection
    between inhabiting a house and building a house. There is a recognition, which
    works in both the conscious consideration of the structure and in the unconscious,
    'immeserive' experience of living in it, of the formal qualities of something
    that is made by man for man, with the hand and mind for the eye and mind.\r\n\r\nThe
    question 'What is beauty?' doesn't need to be answered in any definitive way;
    what is important is to recognise that we have a concept of beauty (an extensible
    concept, in fact) and assign importance both individually and culturally to beauty,
    i.e. to things to which we are attracted. Our appreciation of beauty encompasses
    much of the natural world, but finds a particular expression in the work of human
    hands, in the things that we make or our fellow humans make. There is a recognition
    of what the hand has made and made well, and an attraction to it. From this stems
    our appreciation not only of the idea behind a thing, but of the qualities of
    the making and of the thing as evidence of a common humanity expressed in art
    and craft. It is in this recognition that there is a connection between writing
    and reading, I think: in the appreciation of written forms as evidence of the
    human hand and mind working together to form a thing. Of course, none of this
    is intended to suggest that there is a hard <em>preference</em> for written forms
    against other kinds of lettering -- any more than there is a general human preference
    for certain ways of making a sculpture over other ways --; I am only suggesting
    why we have an attraction to written forms, and how this attraction plays a part
    in both our conscious appreciation of text and our unconscious immersion in it
    during reading.\r\n\r\nThis relates directly to the theme of Robert Bringhurst's
    keynote address at the ATypI conference in Vancouver, which began with the observation
    that for most of human history readers have also been writers, and the letterforms
    that they read were most often similar to the forms that they would make. In such
    a heritage, the connection between writing and reading is much more obvious: they
    are two sides of literary activity. Typography and mass literacy have changed
    the relationship because they have changed the nature of the reader, most of whom
    are now consumers of text and only seldom writers. This is a change that Hrant
    has often made reference to in order to dismiss any significance of writing to
    type design, and to try to focus attention on the importance of reading as the
    thing that we most do with letters.  Where I part company with Hrant is that I
    think there is a continued significance of writing to reading in our recognition
    of the passage of the human hand in certain forms <em>however they are actually
    made.</em> You don't throw off several thousand years of our relationship to writing
    overnight; apparently you don't throw it off after 550+ years of typography either.
    We like the chirographic element in type: it gives us pleasure, it makes us comfortable,
    we recognise ourselves in it.\r\n\r\nChirography is seldom, if ever, the only
    element in type, and there are many good reasons to explore other aspects of type
    design and other approaches to the making of letterforms. The idea of increasing
    our understanding of how we read and making use of that knowledge in directly
    manipulating notan in designs that are increasingly removed from chirographic
    influence is a good one. But it is an idea that needs to find its place alongside
    the acknowledgement that we have a longstanding attraction to written forms that
    is not going to suddenly disappear."
  created: '2005-08-08 02:12:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> But oriental conection? Please explain.\r\n\r\nChiloglaphy. The \"r\"->\"el\"
    thing. Stupid joke.\r\n\r\n> it seems to carry my eye faster\r\n\r\nExcept the
    eye is not \"carried\". That's in [some of] our heads.\r\n\r\n> Evert Bloemsma
    was thinking about improvement of faces via substitutions\r\n\r\nThis is something
    I actually once discussed with Peter:\r\nThe desirability of manipulating notan
    accounting for pair frequencies.\r\n\r\n> The connection between reading and writing
    is probably similar\r\n> to the connection between inhabiting a house and building
    a house.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry, I think that's a stretch.\r\n\r\n> there are many good
    reasons to explore other aspects of type\r\n> design and other approaches to the
    making of letterforms.\r\n\r\nYeah, so let's, already.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 02:32:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">What is it, exactly?\r\n\r\nI don't know, but I feel it is there, and would
    like to understand it better. \r\n\r\n>This \u201Cmovement\u201D business is stuck
    in the conscious\r\nrealm, where text type only spends its holidays.\r\n\r\nHow
    do you know? \r\n\r\nJohn's eloquent and I think accurate tribute to our attraction
    to works of the hand calls to my mind the book of the great furniture artisan,
    James Krenov. In his wonderful 'A Cabinet Maker's Notebook' he explains that you
    can make by hand a dovetail joint that looks like it was made by a machine. But
    if he is going to do it by hand, he is going to *make* the presence of the hand
    felt. Not by arbitrary slickness, but by intelligent response to the grain of
    the wood and the evolving design of the piece of furniture. So that the person
    may own it an after ten years may look at a corner and suddenly say, \"Ah, I understand,\"
    a human connection with the maker.\r\n\r\nOn 'notan'. This and the zen concepts
    of design are of course a translation from the Chinese, though the Japanese developed
    these ideas into their own distinctive tradition. 'Notan' I am guessing is a translation
    of Yin-Yang, which is literally 'dark-light'. Recall the Taoist symbol of white
    and black swirling into each other, with a dot in reverse on each. The characters
    have many other other associations, such as female and male. I have not yet looked
    at Taoist design theory, but just from skimming the internet, I see that they
    involve not only balancing dark and light, but also thick and thin, warm and cold,
    and sharp and blurred. \r\n\r\nSo if there is something in this idea of balancing
    opposing qualities, maybe static form and motion is one of those balances that
    makes for good type.  "
  created: '2005-08-08 03:20:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> How do you know?\r\n\r\nThere is no flow in reading. The overall macro
    rightward direction of Latin transcription does not imply a rightward direction
    at the micro reading level. And it turns out (please, it's been over 100 years
    already) that reading is saccadic. There simply is no lifting, carrying, pushing,
    or anything of the sort. And certainly not at the letterform level, come on! Do
    your eyes follow the \"paraphrased\" pen in Garamond, or even in Meier's hyperchirographic
    fonts? Only at 200 point, and only if you're a type designer. During a fixation,
    we absorb, we choose a subsequent fixation point, and we saccade there. We don't
    need little shapes to tell us to saccade to the right and not to the left, and
    little shapes certainly aren't going to provide some kind of ballistic boost to
    the saccade. Serifs don't need to have little arrowheads to the right.\r\n\r\nThe
    flow is an illusion - yes, a potent one, which is why it took so long to disprove
    it.\r\n\r\n> But if he is going to do it by hand, he is\r\n> going to *make* the
    presence of the hand felt.\r\n\r\nTo me this seems a bit artificial.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, I do indeed agree with much of what John wrote. I have explicitly stated
    the inadvisability of <strong>shunning</strong> chirography (at least once I've
    cooled down from a rhetorical flurry :-) and the need for anything a human makes
    to be... human! What I would like to see however is more respect given to function,
    to the user. I would simply like to hear people say \"yes, we know it harms readability,
    but we enjoy it, and many of our users do too\". That would be really nice. Happily,
    I see an increase in this attitude amongst some people involved in these discussions.
    Thank you. But there is still too much chirographic apologism, and an engrained
    \"don't cramp my artistry\" attitude.\r\n\r\nNotan vs Yin/Yang: the former is
    preferable because it refers directly to luminosity, something tangible and directly
    applicable to type. The latter, although it might be the seed, and is certainly
    a superset, is more useful in the realm of philosophy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 05:21:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I don''t think you are going to get people to say ''Yes, we know it <em>harms</em>
    readability...'', because there is no evidence of that, at least to the degree
    that chirography is normally applied in type design (and Meier''s ''hyperchirographic''
    types are definitely not normal). Arguably, most text type design already represents
    a combination of the favour of chirographic elements with non-chirographic elements,
    designed to work together to make the overall reading experience comfortable,
    efficient and pleasurable. The fact that this combination of chirographic and
    non-chirographic elements developed without a systematic empirical understanding
    of how we read, but based purely on experience, is actually quite impressive.
    Again, we come up against the reality that people read a lot of stuff in these
    parachirographic (thanks, Peter) typefaces, and they do so quickly and accurately
    and in comfort. So whatever you might be able to get people to agree to, it seems
    very unlikely to include an acknowledgement that chirography is actually <em>bad</em>
    for readability. Rather, we might consider whether chirography is <em>limited</em>
    in terms of its positive contribution to readability, i.e. that it can only go
    so far, and that more readable typefaces might be possible by reducing the reliance
    on chirography and adopting a more deliberately notanal design methodology. It
    would be difficult for anyone to say that this isn''t a reasonable set of considerations.
    I''m not convinced that there actually will be significant measurable improvements
    in reading speed, accuracy or comfort in typical circumstances: I suspect any
    measurable benefit will be in edge cases of the reading experience -- low resolution,
    small sizes, information-critical, etc --, which is where readability issues are
    already encountered. But that is good enough reason to take these ideas seriously.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: raph
      picture: 109741
    body: "I spent a week in Japan and so have been thinking quite a bit about the
      relationship between Japanese and western concepts of graphic design. I was
      particularly struck by the relative crudeness of lettering in Roman scripts
      compared to Japanese kana and kanji. In fact, most of the problems were of spacing
      and chirographic consistency, which are not obviously specific to one alphabet.\r\n\r\nHrant:
      Obviously we can reject simplistic theories such as chirography being a primary
      engine behind the planning of saccades in immersive reading. However, I wonder
      if you are going too far in the other direction. There are a number of plausible
      hypotheses I can imagine in which chirography has a positive effect on immersive
      reading. I offer these for your amusement:\r\n\r\n1. Before immersive reading
      actually happens, there is a process of \"immersion\" which is essentially training
      the visual system to discriminate enough information to allow the \"big gulps\"
      per saccade characteristic to immersive reading. During this period, saccades
      tend to be smaller and higher resolution images of letterforms are available
      in the central fovea. Chirographic cues (based on higher spatial frequencies)
      help discriminate more accurately than images based on the lower spatial frequencies
      alone.\r\n\r\n2. During immersive reading, there are occasional failures in
      which the information taken in during a saccade is not accurately enough discriminated,
      causing retrograde saccades. Again, the availability of chirographic cues allows
      more accurate discrimination and thus a quicker recovery.\r\n\r\nHmm. All this
      talk of frequencies makes me think of the analogy to perception of speech. It's
      well known in telephony that almost all of the information content in speech
      is in the range of 300-3000 Hz. Further, if you have a lot of noise or a hearing
      disability (or both), you generally want to filter out everything outside that
      range.\r\n\r\nEven so, if you listen to speech samples side-by-side, the ones
      with the high frequency content always sound clearer. And, for music, filtering
      out those higher frequencies is absolutely unacceptable (hi-fi audio equipment
      is all about reproducing them accurately).\r\n\r\n(obligatory <a href=\"http://www.audiologyonline.com/articles/arc_disp.asp?id=477\">audiology</a>
      link)\r\n\r\nFood for thought, in any case."
    created: '2005-08-08 07:51:24'
  created: '2005-08-08 07:10:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, on flow I wasn't implying that our eyes follow every stoke of a letter
    in the way that it would be written. You are attacking a straw man there. \r\n\r\nWhat
    is mean is that the indications of flow to the right are natural and somehow functional.
    For example, in Latin script the stems are predominantly on the left, and the
    bowls and branches move to the right. The characters open to the right. In Hebrew,
    read from right to left, it is just the opposite. The E and F point to the right,
    whereas the resh and dalet point to the left. The C opens to the right, whereas
    the kaf opens to the left, etc. And this is inspite of the fact that the square
    Hebrew letters are also written with a movement left to right, just like Latin
    letters. \r\n\r\nSo I accept your point earlier that messing with the signs of
    the hand in letters doesn't necessarily mess up the legibility of letters, and
    withdraw my statement on that. (Though I do think this often results in aesthetic
    problems.) But I think some indications of flow, which the moving hand naturally
    lends itself to, are somehow helpful and comfortable in reading.   \r\n\r\nBy
    the way, on notan, are you sure this is not a more general notion than dark-light?
    If it is a translation of yin-yang, it would have a more general meaning. Any
    Japanese speakers out there can help us with this? \r\n\r\nBy the way, it is historically
    incorrect to say that yin-yang is a 'seed' of notan. The applications of the Taoist
    philosopy to painting and calligraphy were well developed in China before they
    came to Japan, from what I can see. Japanese culture on these matters is derivative
    from the Chinese, just as American is derivative from the European. And both have
    become separate and evolved their own traditions. In the Japanese case, there
    was a prior culture, so the Chinese-Japanese differences are perhaps greater,
    though I suspect not in this field of painting and calligraphy. "
  created: '2005-08-08 15:17:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">a more general notion than dark-light\r\n\r\nI would expect our visual system
    to be multi-dimensional.\r\nThe way I understand the biology, there are different
    regions in the brain which respond to different visual properties. I'm assuming
    that they correspond with aesthetic categories which we find useful, such as repetition,
    angularity/roundness, verticality/horizontality, separation/contiguousness, as
    well as qualities like sharpness, tonality, and colour. These algorithms are used
    to construct the picture in one's field of vision.\r\n\r\nThey also have parallels
    in classical rhetoric: an example that touches several areas would be rhyming
    verse.\r\n\r\nI believe that all these neural algorithms can be exploited in the
    packaging of reading information (aka type design), and type designers can combine
    them in different ways.\r\n\r\nFor instance, against the ground of repetitive
    counters in b, d, p and q, in Century, the strong serifs on these glyphs serve
    to distinguish the characters in \"non-transformable\" ways (ie you can't make
    any of them by rotating or flipping any of the others). However, in Garamond,
    the counters vary, as do the serifs; but the serifs are not as big as in Century,
    so the task of making these glyphs non-transformable is shared by counter and
    serif. It would be very difficult to test the relative merits of these two design
    solutions in a laboratory. Related: Comic Sans, non-transformable b, d, p and
    q, and no serifs. \r\n\r\nBTW, we need another version of Comic Sans, renamed
    to reflect its serious side (with small caps and OSF p'raps. Maybe Vince is working
    on an OT version right now?)  Rather like the Harry Potter books for children
    and adults, identical inside, but with different covers. Speaking of which, when
    you sell millions of books in a couple of days, surely you can afford a font that
    has true small caps? -- Upgrade the Berkeley Old Style to Califonian, huh?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 16:02:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> chirographic cues\r\n\r\nWhat are these cues?\r\nAre all of them good?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 16:19:01'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[John Hudson] \"So whatever you might be able to get people to agree to,
    it seems very unlikely to include an acknowledgement that chirography is actually
    bad for readability. Rather, we might consider whether chirography is limited
    in terms of its positive contribution to readability, i.e. that it can only go
    so far, and that more readable typefaces might be possible by reducing the reliance
    on chirography and adopting a more deliberately notanal design methodology. It
    would be difficult for anyone to say that this isn\u2019t a reasonable set of
    considerations.\"\r\n\r\nI think that's right.\r\n\r\n[Raph] \"Chirographic cues
    (based on higher spatial frequencies) help discriminate more accurately than images
    based on the lower spatial frequencies alone.\"\r\n\r\nI think that's right too.
    Chirography introduces slight differences into the shapes of the counters of the
    pdqb. These are discernable at high frequencies, and the receptive fields of the
    visual cortex are probably sensitive to them. The inflections of shape at these
    higher frequencies probably contributes to the perceived sharpness of the word
    image at the visual recognitional moment. So there is a readability benefit. This
    benefit I take to be of the same order as those Hrant wants to introduce with
    his contrast manipulations at the border between black and white. \r\n\r\nHrant
    wants to press beyond where chirography has left the variablity in counters, and
    I think that's a fruitful avenue to explore. But there is a limit to this. Not
    enought modularity and the alphabetic system looses some of it's functionlity.\r\n\r\n[Hrant]
    \"There is no flow in reading.\"\r\nI think categorical statements such as this
    are troublesome.\r\nThere is a rhythmic succession (flow) of saccades both on
    the time and on the extent axis, when reader ability is developed and text is
    well formatted. And there is a flow of visual information in text, for example
    a deployment of stems around a rhythmic mean (in properly spaced text). And the
    visual cortex depends on this to do it's job effectively."
  created: '2005-08-08 16:38:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the indications of flow to the right are natural and somehow functional.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not seeing that.\r\n\r\n> in Latin script the stems are predominantly on the left,
    and the bowls and branches move to the right.\r\n\r\nSure (and this particular
    constructivism is called \"augmentation\"). \r\nBut that's writing, not reading.\r\n\r\n>
    on notan, are you sure this is not a more general notion than dark-light?\r\n\r\nActually,
    the value of the term \"notan\" lies in much more than something like \"chiaroscuro\"
    for example; the relevance is in its valuation of the <strong>relationship</strong>
    between dark and light, in their unity & opposition.\r\n\r\n> I would expect our
    visual system to be multi-dimensional.\r\n\r\nYou're talking about cognition;
    the usefulness of notan is firmly in the context of perception.\r\n\r\n> algorithms\r\n\r\nNot
    algorithms, heuristics. Huge difference.\r\n\r\n> These are discernable at high
    frequencies\r\n\r\nBut critically, not in the parafovea.\r\n\r\n> Not enought
    modularity and the alphabetic system looses some of it\u2019s functionlity.\r\n\r\nAgreed,
    although I think it has to do with texture, not modularity. But in any case, we
    need to explore these limits, and within the limits of chirography, we can't.
    You can't find that other continent by hugging the coast of yours; you need an
    astrolabe: an understanding of and a respect for readability.\r\n\r\n> There is
    a rhythmic succession (flow) of saccades\r\n\r\nI think this is part of the illusion.
    I see no reason for rhythm in reading, because I see no benefit; and the subconscious
    doesn't waste time. The only rhythm in typography is at the level of linebreaks,
    and that of course is beyond the realm of type design.\r\n\r\n> a deployment of
    stems around a rhythmic mean\r\n\r\nThat's where I use \"pattern\". One more time,
    guys: the term \"rhythm\" creates an affected, escapist apologism for chirography
    that's holding us back. Please stop using it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 17:50:55'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Please stop using it.\r\n\r\nNo. All I mean by rhythm in the typographic
    domain is that the pattern of strokes has a periodicity (or phasal regularity)
    in spatial frequency space that hovers around a definable mean."
  created: '2005-08-08 19:18:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> algorithms \r\n\r\nI think what you mean is 'factors' or 'variables', rather
    than 'algorithm' - or heuristic. An algorithm is a procedure that leads to a definite,
    end, like the algorithm for adding numbers. An 'heuristic' procedure is one that
    is more open-ended. But here you are talking about ingredients in a process, if
    I understand you rightly, rather than a process. "
  created: '2005-08-08 19:53:15'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: ">But in any case, we need to explore these limits, and within the limits
    of chirography, we can\u2019t. You can\u2019t find that other continent by hugging
    the coast of yours; you need an astrolabe: an understanding of and a respect for
    readability.<\r\n\r\nI don't perceive chirography (what of it I can grasp) as
    some constrictive shell within which we are trapped who cannot see the potential
    for other dimensions. Please help clarify what chirography is. Isn't it now a
    somewhat esthetic set of conventions we can employ more or less, to support, accentuate
    or possibly overwhelm other ingredients of a typeface? Isn't chirography one of
    those ingredients that can be used well or badly, depending on the chef? I can
    see that overdependence on chirographic conventions can cripple the functionality
    of a typeface that is purportedly for text, but isn't that an issue of balance?
    A skilled designer, who has recognized what makes readability happen, will take
    the limitations of chirography into account and use them in moderation, along
    with the other ingredients. I don't see chirography as such an explosive or dangerous
    ingredient. Just a highly attractive one, prone to overuse, like cilantro. "
  created: '2005-08-08 19:58:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> Hmm. All this talk of frequencies makes me think of the analogy to perception
    of speech. It\u2019s well known in telephony that almost all of the information
    content in speech is in the range of 300-3000 Hz. Further, if you have a lot of
    noise or a hearing disability (or both), you generally want to filter out everything
    outside that range.\r\nEven so, if you listen to speech samples side-by-side,
    the ones with the high frequency content always sound clearer. And, for music,
    filtering out those higher frequencies is absolutely unacceptable (hi-fi audio
    equipment is all about reproducing them accurately).\r\n\r\nSorry for such a long
    quote - I think this analogy is a good one - What you *can* do as a result of
    design & what *feels good* and therefore encourages you to do more, are quite
    different. Each is important. Hrant seems to be thinking first of the 'can do'
    aspect which is fine but my arguement has to do with the 'want to do' aspect I
    think.  \r\n\r\n> The flow is an illusion - yes, a potent one, which is why it
    took so long to disprove it.\r\n\r\nThis 'potent illusion' - if that's what it
    is -  ( I neither accept or deny this idea being ignorant of the research... )
    is part of what I think I am interested in. And I think that maybe some chirographic
    character in the context of a more caligraphic contextual glyph successsion (
    as opposed to the more common kern table model of glyph succession ) will probably
    create an agreeable pleasant sensation when reading. \r\n\r\n- This is going to
    sound like my teacvhing your gradmaother to suck eggs but hang on -  Just one
    of the reasons that type glyphs have to be designed differently than caligraphic
    ones is the abscence of a practical way of handeling the variability of glyphs
    characterized by the best caligraphy.  Since there was going to be just one standard
    spacing letterforms had to change to meet this restriction. We all agree on this.
    No? With Open type some of this restriction is lifted which is an opportunity
    to give type a light dose of caligraphic pleasantness via contextually sensitive
    notan. \r\n\r\nDoing that seems seems like a great tool to sweeten a text typeface
    - maybe doing this would be *just* art or beauty. Maybe too much preoccupation
    with it is counterproductive - like food that is all too sweet.  Cetainly it could
    be overdone. It is text faces we are talking about here. In fact I would go so
    far as to say it would probably be best if it was subtle enough to be an unconscious
    effect!\r\n\r\nWhat I do know is that when a typeface is agreeable it encourages
    me to read & read longer. In these cases I feel that the typeface is in service
    to me as a reader. \r\n\r\nWhich brings me to my tenative thesis again: While
    chirography might be a stumbling block to better text type design in the case
    of the Kerning Only font, (because unlike in the case of fine caligraphy be it
    eastern or western, the chirographic charcter is not & cannot be context sensitive
    & therefore sufficently sensitive to notan); an Open Type font that is Context
    Sensive could perhaps use chirographic character, in small doses and in an appropriately
    notanicly aware manner - like a caligrapher might. Thus restoring chirography
    to the service of beauty & function in one go.\r\n\r\nI am not suggesting that
    we would all be better off reading caligraphy for text as such. No. \r\n\r\nI
    am just saying that chirography in small doses is perhaps not antithetical to
    good notan or text face improvement once it is in a contextually aware open type
    font. Maybe in this specific context chirography is not a sort of useless inflamed
    appendix that needs to be removed for the sake of readers.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 20:15:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> algorithms\r\n\r\nI do mean algorithms, although it is not the term usually
    applied.\r\nIf a part of the brain responds to specific visual stimuli, such as
    verticality, it is because it is \"wired\" or programmed to seek out that quality
    in the data it receives from the eye. In turn, the eye muscles develop a technique
    for meaningful saccadic action over text, geared to feeding the algorithmic pattern-seekers
    with information. A feedback loop: reading.\r\n\r\n> the flow is an illusion\r\n\r\nAs
    I mentioned before (the dance anecdote), that part of the brain which supervises
    writing may be stimulated by reading. The flow is part of how we write, so cannot
    be discounted, it's part of our relationship with written language. Perhaps it
    is more fundamental to language: the gaps we put between characters and letters
    do not exist in spoken language.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 21:18:06'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick Shinn] \"the gaps we put between characters and letters do not exist
    in spoken language.\"\r\n\r\nIsn't that part of Evert Bloemsma's justification
    for the contrast manipulations in Legato? Consolidation for vision of the word
    image. The very same dynamic that Gerrit Noordzij sees as explaining the developments
    in writing from the 7th through the 16th century.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 23:29:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Isn\u2019t chirography one of those ingredients that can be used well or
    badly\r\n\r\nIndeed, I agree. With the display-text axis having central relevance
    to that.\r\n\r\nJust know what you're doing, what effects your choices and tools
    have - that's basically the crux of what I'm saying. If I often sounds more \"militant\",
    it's because it seems I have to manage the discoursive load of 10 grown designers.
    For example, I myself love lard, even though I know its negative effects. Know
    chirograhy's pros and cons, admit them, work with them. Until quite recently,
    nobody talked about the cons (at least not beyond a vague/abstact unease felt
    by some). Now, some of us are. That little thing honestly makes me happy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 00:11:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>All I mean by rhythm in the typographic domain is that the pattern
    of strokes has a periodicity (or phasal regularity) in spatial frequency space
    that hovers around a definable mean.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is all I mean by rhythm
    too, and I was planning to take you to task for mentioning rhythm in the same
    breath as flow, since I've spent so long trying to persuade Hrant that there is
    no implied flow when we speak of rhythm in visual terms (whereas there is always
    implied flow when we speak of rhythm in musical terms because music is temporal).
    Hrant says to use 'pattern' instead of rhythm. I think we should be able to use
    either, and also to specify 'rhythmic pattern', because this describes quite precisely
    the periodicity of Latin letters. There are other kinds of pattern, e.g. what
    we might call melodic pattern, in which the periodicity is much longer and subject
    to greater variation. \r\n\r\nNow, as I talked about in the MS book <em>Now read
    this</em>, it is important to realise that different writing systems have different
    periodicity and hence may be more or less rhythmic than other writing systems,
    so it is a mistake to say that rhythm is part of reading per se in any common
    sense; rather, the particular rhythm of the Latin script is part of reading in
    the Latin script, and the particular melody of the Greek script is part of reading
    in the Greek script. An interesting thing to consider is how the brain might utilise
    the particular patterns of different writing systems to develop readerability
    in a script. Almost all scientific study of reading seems to have been limited
    to the Latin script, unless e.g. Chinese cognitive scientists have been busy without
    our knowing it. I am not convinced that what we know about reading in one script
    can be applied directly to type design in another script."
  created: '2005-08-09 06:05:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In fact comparing the read[er-]ability of various\r\nscripts would provide
    unparalled insight I think.\r\n\r\nBut honestly, \"melody\", now?!  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 06:11:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Well I can't think of a specifically visual term at the moment. Rhythm is
    a term that is applied to both visual and musical composition. For me it is natural
    to use melody in the same way, but I acknowledge that the term is not normally
    applied to visual composition. But maybe it should be. We need to be able to identify
    and talk meaningfully about spatial arrangement that is not characterised by strongly
    rhythmic elements, in which there is less modularity and greater variation and
    in which the subsequent patterns in text are typically longer and less obvious.
    If someone can suggest a better term than the semi-metaphorical 'melodic', I'm
    happy to consider it.
  created: '2005-08-09 06:28:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Almost all scientific study of reading seems to have been limited to the
    Latin script, \r\n\r\nAnd there, to non-connected forms, rather than written cursive
    \"script\". Wimps.\r\n\r\n>a better term than the semi-metaphorical \u2018melodic\u2019\r\n\r\nThere's
    always harmony and counterpoint. And the golden section. As I've mentioned before,
    having a scalar relationship of glyph widths creates a pleasing, harmonic appearance
    to text, comfortable and hence functional. These concepts are useful analytical
    and creative tools.\r\n\r\nThe great fear I have of the lab-testing \"scientific\"
    approach to human perceptual mechanics is that it will be proved that Elton John's
    song's have optimum listenability. (Thank goodness for listenerability, and hence
    Sonic Youth, not to mention SOAD.)\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 12:16:11'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>the gaps we put between characters and letters do not exist in spoken
    language.</em>\r\n\r\nThe gaps we put between characters do not exist in written
    language: words are identified ideographically, and meaning is conveyed analogically,
    through a triad of referee - reference - referent. The sole advantage that alphabetic
    writing systems have over ideographic writing systems is, at least theoretically,
    new words encountered in the alphabetic system can be sounded out (sometimes with
    greater or lesser degrees of precision: witness in English <strong>bough -- cough
    -- dough -- tough</strong>). Well, that and alphabetic systems allow for a lot
    more flexibility in the design of their individual elements.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 13:02:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">scalar relationship of glyph widths \r\n\r\nCould you explain what you mean?
    I missed your earlier discussion of this.\r\n\r\n>melody\r\n\r\nMaybe 'dance,'
    also sometimes used to describe a quality of text, is better, as this is more
    visual. \r\n\r\n'Flow,' as compared with rhythm, it seems to me is a gestural
    quality of letters, which complements rhythm. By the way, don't the saccades occur
    with a consistent rhythm? \r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 13:31:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">The gaps we put between characters do not exist in written language\r\n\r\n...except
    when the form says \"PRINT IN BLOCK LETTERS ONLY\" :-)\r\n\r\n>scalar relationship
    of glyph widths\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/9344"
  created: '2005-08-09 13:46:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">scalar relationship of glyph widths\r\n\r\nThanks, interesting. A question
    I have is how the traditional variation in width and spacing you describe contributes
    to readability. It seems to, but I don't understand why.   "
  created: '2005-08-09 13:55:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick Curtis] \"The gaps we put between characters do not exist in written
    language.\"\r\n\r\nMight it not be preferable to say: \"do not exist in read language\";
    on the other hand, my contention has been that 'evoked' whites are information
    for the visual cortex, so we should not think of them as gaps,  i.e., areas of
    no information toward visual wordform resolution.\r\n\r\n[John Hudson] \"melodic\"\r\nCould
    it be said that the rhythms in Arabic scripts are undulant, i.e., that variations
    in indulance around a mean have cue-value in arabic texts?\r\nAlso, I do think
    reading in 'non-western' scripts involves a retraining of the 'plastic-ware' in
    the visual and cerebral cortex. There is some discussion now in the cognitive
    scientific literature of whether the area of the cerebral cortex dubbed the visual
    wordform area developes in the same way in readers of far eastern scripts, like
    chinese or japanese. Or if a comparable specialization develops in a different
    area.\r\n\r\n[some more thoughts on notan]\r\n1) are there guidebooks or oral
    traditions in Japanes culture on how to acheive notan?\r\n2) I wonder what eye-movement
    studies of good writers writing might reveal. I suspect it will reveal that there
    is a constant moving back and forth between white and black, maybe even a concentration
    of attention on the white formed in writing. The hand already 'knows' the gestural
    routines of the script, and if he or she is good, the writer can be confident
    of the visual integrity of the stroke. The only gross varible, given a certain
    sized pen and a steady hand is the consistency of the white. If it is true that
    the consistency of the white has the importance it might be shown to have in simple
    acts of writing, perhaps writing with the broad-nibbed pen is the prepartatory
    school for notan. And provides a benchmark (not an end-point).\r\n\r\n[Let it
    be known that, because on the face of it there seems to be something to Hrant's
    argument about the moving front vis a vis absolute notan, I have to keep worrying
    it and the claims it motivates. I have to keep worrying it from both ends. The
    'moving front'/ 'priority of the black' end and the 'definition' and 'relevance
    of notan' end]"
  created: '2005-08-09 14:23:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " >how the traditional variation in width and spacing you describe contributes
    to readability.\r\n\r\nHarmonic relationships form a conceptual grid against which
    the distinction between information and noise can be maximized. They are pleasing
    because they make sense, as opposed to random or more difficult matrices.\r\n\r\nWithout
    harmonic relationships, you get clumping, which creates false significance."
  created: '2005-08-09 14:31:17'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[William Berkson] \"...but I don\u2019t understand why.\"\r\n\r\nIt tried
    to touch on this in my Sat, 2005-08-06 14:58 post on the readerability / readablity
    thread. My speculation there dovetails for the most part with Nick Shinn's reply"
  created: '2005-08-09 14:35:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">guidebooks or oral traditions in Japanes culture on how to achieve notan?\r\n\r\nI
    haven't got hold of them yet, but my internet search came up with these:\r\n\r\nNotan:
    the dark-light principle of design. By Dorr Bothwell, Marlys Mayfield\r\nThe Yin/Yang
    of Painting, by Hongnian Zhang\r\nChinese Calligraphy: An introduction to its
    aesthetic and technique. Yee Chiang.\r\nChinese Brushwork in Calligraphy and Painting:
    Its History, Aesthetics, and Techniques. Kwo Da-Wei\r\n\r\nAs I said, the theory
    applying Taoist ideas to painting and calligraphy was developed in China, not
    Japan, though there may be additional Japanese contributions.\r\n\r\nIf you do
    a search on 'notan' you will also get lessons that a school teacher developed
    for teaching art students about notan.  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 14:43:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Harmonic relationships form a conceptual grid against which the distinction
    between information and noise can be maximized.\r\n\r\nInteresting and plausible.
    That would imply that proportional spacing is a definite advantage, no? I would
    like to think so, but are monospaced fonts like Courier really less readable?
    Or perhaps the effect of traditional widths and spacing is greater effeciency
    at smaller size?"
  created: '2005-08-09 15:40:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick Shinn] \"information / noise\"\r\n[William Berkson] \"but are monospaced
    fonts like Courier really less readable?\"\r\n\r\nHere is where trying to imagine
    the passage of the material through the visual cortex is a useful exercise. The
    question seems to me to be one of efficient perceptual processing on a visual
    cortex level, with low computation costs and economy of spiking (in neurological
    terms). \r\n\r\nTo think through this passage through the visual cortex we need
    to understand the functioning of the different levels of the visual cortex of
    course, and that is still a bit of a grey area, but there are interesting suggestions
    about how may levels there are and what they do, based on sophisticated empirical
    probing in the neuro-biological literature, that seem to me to fit nicely with
    a perspective on this such as Nick's."
  created: '2005-08-09 16:29:46'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I think though that it is necessary to distinguish between good and bad noise,
    Some noise obstructs visual wordform resolution by introducing distracting areas
    of salience and altering the necessary topographies of cue-value rich information;
    other 'noise' contributes to gestural / atmospheric particularity--the feel of
    the text.\r\n\r\nA master-designer manages salience for functionality and adjusts
    noise to cultural-demographic effect."
  created: '2005-08-09 16:40:14'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Might it not be preferable to say: \u201C[The gaps we put between characters]
    do not exist in read language\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nPeter, that's an excellent point...it
    is in the <em>reading</em> that the interstitial spaces are irrelevant, just as
    they are in spoken language, because we do not hear individual letters spoken
    (except I or O, as words), but <strong>phonemes</strong>."
  created: '2005-08-09 16:41:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">are monospaced fonts like Courier really less readable?\r\n\r\nYes and no.
    Monospacing is a simple form of harmony (think 2/2 march) which provides an easy
    matrix. However, the disposition of the normal alphabet within this creates awkward
    stem relationships. My experimental Panoptic alphabet tackles this problem by
    using unicase as a solution. If I were to continue along these lines, I would
    incorporate extenders.\r\n\r\nIt seems strange that a scale of horizontal visual
    proportions can be considered harmonic, when horizontal measurements in text readily
    suggest tempo."
  created: '2005-08-09 16:41:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">\u201Cinformation / noise\u201D\r\n\r\nThe problem of design is that you
    have at least two criteria to satisfy, and the information of each is the other's
    noise."
  created: '2005-08-09 16:47:00'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "oldnick, in saying that \"\u2018evoked\u2019 whites are information for the
    visual cortex, [...] we should not think of them as gaps\" I wanted to propose
    that the perceptual processing process uses the shapes of interstitial spaces
    as well. It reads them as information. They are not irrelevant. What it gets from
    them is contributory to visual wordform resolution, co-valent with counter shapes
    and stroke conformities. This is one of the things parallel letter recognition
    models of word recognition have so far failed to consider, or so it seems to me.
    \r\n\r\n...and why the preservation of bundled spacing in a properly spaced font
    \ makes sense... "
  created: '2005-08-09 17:01:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The problem of design is that you have at least two criteria to satisfy,
    and the information of each is the other\u2019s noise.\r\n\r\nThis seems to come
    back to the need for balance between different factors, which indeed seems at
    the heart of the problem of good type design--with different balances for different
    purposes. \r\n\r\nWhat did you have in mind here as the two competing criteria?
    Or in other words in what way is monospaced font less readable or not less reabable?
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 17:07:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, all you need is \"pattern\". Really.\r\nI know it's sort of sad, but
    hey.\r\n\r\n> don\u2019t the saccades occur with a consistent rhythm?\r\n\r\nNope.\r\nUnless
    the content is deliberately written in such a way as to cause rhythmic saccades.
    Never been done AFAIK, but could be interesting - like a sort of reading hypnosis...
    But even then, it's the content doing it, not the letterforms, so it's outside
    our scope.\r\n\r\n> Harmonic\r\n\r\nAnother misleading term.\r\nAs if we're not
    already drowning in a terminological miasma.\r\n\r\n> \"Notan: the dark-light
    principle of design\"\r\n\r\nThat's the one I have. It's cool.\r\n\r\n> That would
    imply that proportional spacing is a definite advantage, no?\r\n\r\nYou don't
    need voodoo to imply such a thing. The (perceptual/cognitive) reason that proportional
    is more readable than monowidth is that we read boumas. And this is related to
    the fact that it's easier to catch typos in a mono setting.\r\n\r\n> are monospaced
    fonts like Courier really less readable?\r\n\r\nOf course.\r\nOnly a readability
    relativist thinks otherwise, and a readability relativist has no business on the
    analytical end of understanding readability.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 18:16:29'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: ">> are monospaced fonts like Courier really less readable?<\r\n\r\nTry reading
    a novel set in Courier. Can't find one? Hmmmm.... There's a reason."
  created: '2005-08-09 18:25:44'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: "I'd like to add a point which, as far as I've found out, hasn't been mentioned
    yet. There has been a big discussion about writing (german) nouns with or without
    capitals some time ago, and the subject keeps reemerging now and then. One of
    the most striking arguments which speaks against writing everything (german) in
    lower case letters is that the experienced and fast reader of german texts uses
    to jump from one noun to the next to get the content. Here it is very helpful
    that the noun identifies itself by its uppercase first letter (operating as a
    kind of bouma-boost). \r\nWithin english texts, as linguists say, the main part
    of the content concentrates in the verb. Due to the lack of an explicit verb-marker,
    readers have to identify it otherwise, which is by its characteristic location
    within a sentence.\r\nIn both cases the gaps between the words play important
    roles as word-separators, which, according to the theory described above, is even
    more important in languages where nearly everything is written in lowercase letters. "
  created: '2005-08-09 20:27:47'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I wanted to propose that the perceptual processing process uses the shapes
    of interstitial spaces as well. It reads them as information. They are not irrelevant.
    What it gets from them is contributory to visual wordform resolution, co-valent
    with counter shapes and stroke conformities</em>.\r\n\r\nPeter, I agree with the
    first part of the statement: both positive and negative space define the ideograph,
    and thus provide the referent from which we divine meaning. However, I wouldn't
    accord counter shapes or stroke conformities the same \"transmission\" weight:
    their function is, I believe, more aesthetic."
  created: '2005-08-09 20:51:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> this is something I actually once discussed with Peter:\r\nThe desirability
    of manipulating notan accounting for pair frequencies.\r\n\r\nWhat did he say?
    Is there a thread to read?\r\n\r\n> we need another version of Comic Sans, renamed
    to reflect its serious side\r\n\r\nmade me laugh. thanks!\r\n\r\n> If someone
    can suggest a better term than the semi-metaphorical \u2018melodic\u2019, I\u2019m
    happy to consider it.\r\n\r\nI agree with nick that Harmony is a good descriptive
    choice - Even though it is a musical term it has also been applied to visual culture
    for a long time and seems easily comprehensible. Two examples - architecture &
    color theory. The idea is that a the a pleasing relationship of the parts is achieved.
    What is sensed as harmonic is often somewhat culturally bound. That's why unfamiliar
    color choices & combinations may feel wacky or crazy at first & then be accepted
    and enjoyed later.\r\n\r\nIn a text face the the harmony is refined and quite
    subtle which is why it takes a long time to see & understand. When Hrant talks
    about a necessary ugliness in a text font this makes sense too; the anology I
    think of is the notes in a melody that western culture tends to think of as 'sad'
    or 'dissonant'. They are used & then contrasted with whole notes for additional
    source of contrast drama & harmonic effect in a song. \r\n\r\n> Harmonic relationships
    form a conceptual grid against which the distinction between information and noise
    can be maximized. They are pleasing because they make sense, as opposed to random
    or more difficult matrices.\r\n\r\nI agree, but I think learned harmonic sense
    it is (too an extent) a cultural or learned set of distinctions which allows us
    to make sense, more rapidly interpret & appreciate more fully and deeply. Our
    ability to learn about a new kind of harmony in the unfamiliar is what is refered
    to in the early emigre mantra about what we read most... etc. I think that for
    a text face a new 'culture' of harmony, even one which uses increased notanal
    sensitivity as it's basis will have to introduce change in a subtle way. That
    subtlety will be powerful nonetheless.\r\n\r\n> It seems strange that a scale
    of horizontal visual proportions can be considered harmonic, when horizontal measurements
    in text readily suggest tempo.\r\n\r\nThis isn't so strange when you consider
    that the horizontals on their own are just one element in the design which is
    ideally harmonized with all the others.\r\n\r\n> ( Harmony) Another misleading
    term. As if we\u2019re not already drowning in a terminological miasma.\r\n\r\nPlease
    explain more why you don't like the term. 'It's too artsy' isn't really an explaination
    BTW - just a indication of your cultural preferences. I want to know why it obsures
    rather than clarifys. If that's what its doing...\r\n\r\n> (proportional spacing
    is a definite advantage) You don\u2019t need voodoo to imply such a thing. \r\n\r\nI
    agree. I think differences in relative horizontal size give us two great things:
    \r\n\r\nIn the Hrantian/Ennesonian sense:  They help differentiate forms - it's
    another 'cue' like counters, & serifs to aid in rapid processing of the text as
    enneson would have it.\r\n\r\nThey create another formal design element with which
    to create harmony.\r\n\r\n> Try reading a novel set in Courier.\r\n\r\nExactly.
    \r\n\r\nAnd yet many universities insist on Courier for formal disertations. It
    must be masochism...\r\n\r\nAs you see I am hardly an obsolute readability relativist.
    Actually, who is? Nick, are you?\r\n\r\nWhat would the opposite be? An A-cultural
    Readabilty Absolutist? Hrant are you?\r\n\r\nI doubt it in each case.\r\n\r\nNotan
    is I think, just an element in the overall potential harmony within a font design.
    Similarly I think Notan is also a sub category of visual contrasts - in this case
    having to do with the interplay of darks & lights. \r\n\r\nNotan is a Japanese
    word & I think I can shed a bit light on it's origins - I think that because Ink
    painting (rather that Oil) was a dominant form of art in China & Japan, and because
    the monochome styles were in vogue at the time when relations with China withered
    at the beginning of the Edo period (1603-1867), and finally because Zen Caligraphers
    went on to be in vogue and they especially favored monochome expression; Notan,
    as an aesthetic benchmark naturally became more important than it would have otherwise
    been. \r\n\r\nA side note - Sargent's Oil paintings draw much of their power from
    a profound & subtle use of Notan. Vermeer and Monet seemed pretty interested too.
    You can't tell by looking at photos or on the web either. The range of contrast
    in each case is nowhere near enough for their Notan to be reproduced. You have
    to see them in person. \r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 22:16:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> is even more important in languages where nearly everything is written
    in lowercase letters\r\n\r\nInteresting! And nicely written too."
  created: '2005-08-09 22:20:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What did he say? Is there a thread to read?\r\n\r\nI think he didn't see
    a point (although I could be remembering wrong). Maybe because it's not ideologially
    pure enough, hence unappealing to a Modernist philosopher. It was a private exchange.\r\n\r\n>
    Please explain more why you don\u2019t like the term.\r\n\r\nIt adds noise, and
    nothing else. I don't think it's a good idea to apply parallels between composed
    music and reading. A text face is more like a wild bird chirping.\r\n\r\n> What
    would the opposite be?\r\n\r\nSomebody who thinks Familiarity and Culture play
    no roles in reading.\r\nNot me.\r\n\r\nVermeer is indeed impressive, in person.
    When I was a kid he was my favorite painter. But I think that's more chiaroscuro,
    less notan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 22:44:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'An harmonic scale is assumed to have a mathematical basis, although in the
    visual arts this is hard to put numbers to. However, Luc de Groot''s mathematical
    curve that he uses to plot the relative weights of type family members is an example.
    The golden section has a mathematical definition, of course. Bringhurst, in his
    Elements, discusses Fibonacci series. Even if artists and designers are unaware
    of the maths, I suspect that through acquiring the implicit knowledge of their
    discipline, and through experimentation which develops their good taste, their
    work tends towards such mathematically pure proportions. '
  created: '2005-08-09 22:59:12'
- author:
    name: tina
    picture: 109693
  body: Hm, perception can change throughout lifetime, right? Just as an example,
    I always wonder when the time will come and I'll stop considering some sort of
    free jazz interpretations as noise instead of harmony, even if it's "mathematically"
    pure?
  created: '2005-08-09 23:16:15'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[Nick Curtis] I wouldn\u2019t accord counter shapes or stroke conformities
    the same \u201Ctransmission\u201D weight: their function is, I believe, more aesthetic.\r\n\r\nAs
    carriers of linguistic meaning, I wouldn't either. \r\nPerhaps stroke conformities
    is a misleading term. I meant to imply that both role architectural particulars
    and role architecturally evoked particulars, including the between-letter shapes
    evoked by placing two or more letters side by side, are functioning agents in
    visual wordform resolutional tasks. (Parallel letter recognition models of word
    recognition only consider the black) \r\n\r\nThe idea is a hunch. And I tried
    to develop it in my Typo#13 contribution. I do not know of any hard evidence.
    But it seems consistent with some current understandings of how transmission of
    information through the visual cortex works.\r\n\r\nWhat sparked the notion was
    consideration of the Stuart Gluth graphics reproduced with my Typo#13 contribution,
    and Gerrit Noordzij's method of correcting word blindess, by forcing the word
    blind person to see the shapes of the areas between adjacent letters (kind of
    like imprinting), as well as his insistance that the letter is two shapes, the
    white and the black. All the while familiarizing myself with the neuro-biology
    of the visual cortex."
  created: '2005-08-09 23:48:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> But I think that\u2019s more chiaroscuro, less notan.\r\n\r\nI think when
    you consider light & dark & composition in the same thought you are thinking about
    notan.\r\n\r\n> It adds noise, and nothing else. I don\u2019t think it\u2019s
    a good idea to apply parallels between composed music and reading. A text face
    is more like a wild bird chirping.\r\n\r\nEven if you don't like a musical analogy,
    harmony is still a term used by lots of other arts & crafts. Even in engineering.
    I think in some ways its a reduction of the thought - 'this works for me' or 'this
    is a pleasing combination'. Has pleasure really got no place in readability? It
    seems like it must have to me. Not the only role, but a role.\r\n\r\n> the time
    will come and I\u2019ll stop considering some sort of free jazz interpretations
    as noise instead of harmony\r\n\r\nIt's happened to me over & over. I used to
    find Chinese color schemes horrible but now I like them. I used to think that
    arab/persian/central asian music was squeaky and discordant. Now I like it. I
    used to hate cilantro - it tasted like soap - now I like it (alot).\r\n\r\nI think
    I leaned to find the 'harmony' or pleasure in these things. I aculturated them.\r\n\r\n>and
    through experimentation which develops their good taste, their work tends towards
    such mathematically pure proportions.\r\n\r\nYou don't need a theory to know something
    feels right to you. Still, it is interesting.\r\n\r\n> Luc de Groot\u2019s mathematical
    curve that he uses to plot the relative weights of type family members is an example.\r\n\r\nI
    looked into that. This turned out to be similar not be a quite the same as the
    Fibonacci series, or the golden # series ( which are also similar but not the
    same ). I am guessing that that was because Luc(as) adjusted his curve until it
    felt right to him. I still recall that Jean Porchez warned us to use our eyes
    not numbers when designing font or something to that effect. The thread is theoretically
    still on typophile."
  created: '2005-08-09 23:55:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ">  Has pleasure really got no place in readability?\r\n\r\nOf course it does.
    But many people here are looking in the wrong direction.\r\n\r\nDiscord is not
    lack of harmony. Harmony is everywhere.\r\nDiscord is a given person's inability
    to see the harmony.\r\n\r\n> Jean Porchez warned us to use our eyes not numbers\r\n\r\nMath
    is a tool. Just a tool. But a very useful one. But not the only one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 00:13:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">noise instead of harmony,\r\n\r\nFree jazz -- sounds like a Fuse fonts project."
  created: '2005-08-10 00:17:40'
- author:
    name: shiyuan
  body: "the thing i wanna point out is 003.jpg actually is a page of chinese, not
    japanese. Form a chinese perspective, i donot very like 003, the proportion is
    a bit odd and some parts are even distorted in wrong positions , could be a certain
    kind of style, i am not 100% sure.\r\n\r\nif East Asian calligraphy is interested,
    i suggest to look at the origin.\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/East_Asian_calligraphy\r\n\r\n(I
    do not have any hatred of japanese calligraphy, but in a pure sense of writing
    chinese characters, original ones look more \"right\" to me. )\r\n\r\n\r\nBTW:
    some english materials i found about it, without carefully reading, I am not sure
    the copy, but the examples are the \"right\" ones to me..\r\nhttp://www.art-virtue.com/history/index.htm\r\nMy
    personal favor would be Sung Dynasty, Yuan Dynasty and Ming Dynasty.\r\n\r\nespecially
    this one: http://www.art-virtue.com/history/sung/HueiZong1(complete).jpg\r\nfor
    me, it is true art with incredible confidence.\r\n\r\nalso: http://www.art-virtue.com/history/chin%20&%20han/TsuiYuan.jpg\r\nhttp://www.art-virtue.com/history/tang/HuaiSu1.jpg\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-12 01:26:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Beautiful examples. Are you a calligrapher?
  created: '2006-11-13 21:10:25'
date: '2005-08-07 03:01:36'
files:
- filename: 003.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/003.jpg
- filename: 002.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/002.jpg
- filename: 001.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/001.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Chirography & Notan in Japanese Calligraphy + Notan in Roman letterforms

---
