---
author:
  name: matha_standun
  picture: 110362
body: 'A Chairde, <BR> <BR>Weird and wonderful things have been going on in here:
  <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/16916.html?1064708452"
  target="_blank">http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/16916.html?1064708452</a>
  <BR> <BR>We&#39;ve been discussing and debating and arguing about Steven Heller&#39;s
  fear of Fraktur. There&#39;s a bit of a whisper, now, of an open letter/ pamphlet
  to express our love for what he sees as &#34;ominous&#34; and &#34;frightening&#34;
  letterforms evoking &#34;iron-fisted authority&#34;. <BR> <BR>Anyone interested
  in a collective <i>cri de coeur</i> set in Fraktur? <BR> <BR>Matha'
comments:
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Matha <BR> <BR>Heller has always seemed a pretty much a populist to me. Publishing
    crap on the latest trend. Why would he be concerned about fraktur!?! And why would
    we want him to populize it? Let&#39;s keep some of the good stuff to ourselves.
    Yes, Steven, should be very afraid. Nasty stuff that fraktur. Stay away, far far
    away. <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2003-09-28 03:26:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; why would we want him to populize it? <BR> <BR>It&#39;s not that Heller
    is Obi-Wan/our_only_hope or something and we want him to endorse blackletter.
    We just want him to stop defaming it. It&#39;s hard enough to revalidate blackletter
    without a generally respected pundit stating it&#39;s beyond salvation. <BR> <BR>My
    own reason to want a revival of blackletter is a desire to enrich the typographic
    palette; I want to [eventually] see books set in blackletter. The roman is stagnating.
    <BR> <BR>I&#39;m ready to write something up, but will only actually do it if
    we get like 10 or so others to commit, including some big names, like maybe Bain.
    Then we can put something powerful together and get all the magazines to run a
    story. The point shouldn&#39;t be to lambast Heller &#40;it&#39;s not like it&#39;s
    all his fault&#41;, but we can use his stance as a prominent example of what people
    should reject. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-09-28 07:13:19'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: Hi <BR> <BR>Nothing wrong with sublimation, Hrant. You, more than most, would
    understand that. <BR> <BR>Gerald
  created: '2003-09-28 07:21:29'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: <i>And why would we want him to populize it</i> <BR> <BR>We wouldn&#39;t,
    but we don&#39;t really want him populizing the idea that it&#39;s something sinister
    either, do we? <BR> <BR><i>...we can use his stance as a prominent example of
    what people should reject.</i> <BR> <BR>Exactly. <BR> <BR>M.
  created: '2003-09-28 16:20:10'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: 'Apologies to everyone for my late reply to this thread. This response uses
    styled text, so it&#39;s best when read on the typophile site and not in email.
    <BR> <BR>I own a copy of Heller and Fili&#39;s <i>Typology</i> and consider it
    a nice piece of work. It helped me to navigate all the subcurrents in modernism
    and what led up to them. It&#39;s got some great examples especially from the
    early part of the 20th century, including a few blackletter works. So you can
    imagine how frazzled I was when I read Heller&#39;s article. It&#39;s now two
    years old, so our responses are a little behind schedule, but it does need to
    be addressed. <BR> <BR>Heller&#39;s full article can be found <a href="http://designforum.aiga.org/content.cfm?contentalias=%5Fgetfullarticle%5F&amp;aid=%22%2C%230%20%0A">here</a>.
    In it he writes: <BR> <BR><b>German Fraktur type &#40;as opposed to other medieval
    gothics, such as Old English&#41; still evokes iron-fisted authority. The words '
  created: '2003-10-13 05:51:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Great post, John! <BR> <BR>&#62; Fraktur was considered Romantic and feminine.
    <BR> <BR>Maybe this is a digression, but: <BR>If you mean that historically most
    people thought fraktur was romantic &#40;not sure about your capitalization&#41;
    and feminine, I don&#39;t know enough to counter that. But to me &#34;Antiqua&#34;
    &#40;or Roman, or whiteletter&#41; is much more feminine; even though blackletter
    is narrower, its great angularity &#40;especially in styles like textura&#41;
    gives it an essentially masculine being. &#34;Romantic&#34; though I&#39;d agree
    with. <BR> <BR>&#62; chirogaphic blackletter design. <BR> <BR>Blackletter doesn&#39;t
    have to be chirographic. In fact I&#39;ve noticed a tendency among blackletter
    revivalists to rely too much on chirography. That&#39;s basically swimming against
    the current, and it just makes it harder to dump the historical baggage. We need
    to distill blackletter into its structural, typographic essence. <BR> <BR>I have
    no doubt that blackletter needs reform to be revived as a text style &#40;like
    by taming the caps&#41;, and the chirogaphic ghosts can be exorcised along with
    its archaic features in one fell swoop. And as much as spinning efforts &#40;like
    getting Heller to back off&#41; seem distasteful and/or tangential, they&#39;re
    really the fuel of such reform. <BR> <BR>&#40;BTW, thanks for the warning about
    the styled text stuff - good netiquette.&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-13 17:39:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>There is a popular and strange impulse to expand blame for the Holocaust
    beyond the individuals who executed it and extend it to everything they saw, read,
    touched, drank, smoked, ate, discussed, thought about, no matter how incidental.</i>
    <BR> <BR>This is not a new impulse. During the Nurenberg trials, one of the American
    prosecutors drew attention to such impulses and warned against them, especially
    when they involved shifting responsibility for the holocaust onto those &#39;who
    had not done enough to prevent it&#39; rather than those who actually did it.
  created: '2003-10-13 19:32:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'During the &#34;Old Europe&#34; opposition to Gulf War II, I was at a park
    in Montrose &#40;an Angloer-than-average area&#41; and I overheard two moms talking
    politics. One of them ended up saying: &#34;The Germans should talk! I mean, with
    what they <i>let happen</i>.&#34; Talk about a coping mechanism. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-13 19:45:21'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: What&#39;s the real agenda? To put Fraktur types fully back in <BR>good favor
    or to lambast Steven Heller? <BR> <BR>Has anybody invited Heller to respond here?
    I think it&#39;d be  <BR>interesting to hear if he still feels that strongly.
    He&#39;s very  <BR>active in other online fora &#40;AIGA, Speak Up&#41;. I bet
    he&#39;d  <BR>oblige if you agreed to be professional.
  created: '2003-10-13 23:52:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>I bet he&#39;d oblige if you agreed to be professional.</i> <BR> <BR>What
    profession are we talking about? Although Heller poses as a serious design historian
    and commentator, everything I&#39;ve read by him suggests that he is simply a
    journalist. The Fraktur article is a case in point: extremist, poorly researched,
    emotional &#40;&#39;What typeface says &#34;nigger&#34;?&#39;&#41;. Of course,
    most graphic design writing is journalistic, but type has often been blessed with
    a much higher level of scholarship. We have serious historians and commentators
    like Robin Kinross, Peter Bain, and Paul Shaw who have written knowledgeably about
    the modern history of blackletter, and whose books and articles are read by a
    small number of type afficionados, and then we get a journalist like Heller who
    writes an hysterical account of an entirely personal reaction to fraktur, which
    gets read by a thousands of AIGA members.'
  created: '2003-10-14 01:00:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; To put Fraktur types fully back in good favor or to lambast Steven
    Heller? <BR> <BR>Mine is to create an atmosphere where people can use blackletter
    for projects without fear of being called anti-Jewish. Lambasting people who strike
    down blackletter on spurious grounds is one good way to do that. <BR> <BR>I think
    it would be great if you invited Heller here, although I&#39;m not sure what making
    money has to do with it. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-14 01:03:40'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'By professional I meant the &#42;corporate america definition,  <BR>though
    Hrant&#39;s interpretation made me chuckle... <BR> <BR>After re-reading Hrant&#39;s
    first post here, I see that he  <BR>already answered my question, which I respect.
    I should&#39;ve  <BR>read more carefully. <BR> <BR>For what it&#39;s worth, John
    Butler and John Hudson, you&#39;ve  <BR>put some meat on the credibility of this
    thread and I&#39;m  <BR>willing to listen to. <BR> <BR>&#42; In corporate America
    speak, &#39;professional&#39; has another <BR>definition, which is something like:
    dress and speak  <BR>appropriately. Have some manners and if you have alterior  <BR>motives,
    just don&#39;t let them show. Keep them shielded by a  <BR>rational tone. Oh,
    and don&#39;t chew gum.'
  created: '2003-10-14 02:43:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>Mine is to create an atmosphere where people can use blackletter for projects
    without fear of being called anti-Jewish.</i> <BR> <BR>I suspect that the best
    way to do this is to start using blackletter types, but to do so in a strategic
    manner. Heller -- and presumably other non-experts -- is able to distinguish between
    German fraktur and &#39;other medieval gothics, such as Old English&#39;, even
    if his terminology is shaky. One of the great things about Peter Bain and Paul
    Shaw&#39;s publications is that they have begin to educate people about the incredible
    variety of blackletter types and writing styles, and the development of the style
    in countries other than Germany. This, coupled with some understanding of the
    history of the late Middle Ages, reverses the &#39;national identity&#39; trend
    of the 20th century, and properly situates blackletter as an aspect of &#39;international
    gothic&#39; culture, which flourished in western Europe immediately before the
    renaissance. Gerrit Noordzij&#39;s essays on the Burgundian style are another
    contribution to this fuller understanding of blackletter. <BR> <BR>This suggests
    to me that a parallel to this educational approach would be to start using blackletter
    types of French, Spanish, Italian, etc. origins and influence: types that undermine
    the identification of blackletter with Germany and hence, however erroneously,
    with National Socialism.'
  created: '2003-10-14 04:45:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#34;Professional&#34;: Certainly, being insincere is generally good business.
    <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>&#62; do so in a strategic manner <BR> <BR>Yes, and I have
    the perfect ice-breaker: a book about Yiddish. <BR> <BR>&#62; start using blackletter
    types of French, Spanish, Italian, etc. origins and influence <BR> <BR>But would
    such historical subtlety help to convert  the layman? I doubt it. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-14 05:16:47'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: John <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve been collecting and printing blackletter on occasion
    for well over twenty years, ever since I discovered its purity. The only insinuation
    I&#39;ve ever encountered was someone thinking Koch&#39;s Neuland was nazi-like!!!
    and that was just a matter of typographic ignorance. I put this kindly... just
    stop talking about it and do it. <BR> <BR>Gerald <BR> <BR>&#34;I suspect that
    the best way to do this is to start using blackletter types&#34;
  created: '2003-10-14 07:13:25'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: 'Gerald, <BR> <BR>If by &#34;John&#34; you mean me, I&#39;d love to print
    something, but: <BR> <BR>a. I&#39;m not set up for it. <BR>b. I&#39;ve not got
    a good topic that I could add important new contributions to. <BR>c. I&#39;ve
    not got the time. <BR> <BR>One day I will own my own shop. For now I&#39;ll keep
    doing the type programming stuff.'
  created: '2003-10-14 15:50:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Does blackletter have to be letterpress? <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-14 16:11:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Anyway, if anybody ever has a project where a new &#34;mainstream fraktur&#34;
    font would be just the thing, please keep me in mind: I&#39;ll work my rough sketches
    all the way to a font. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-14 17:42:45'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: 'John &#40;Butler&#41; <BR> <BR>I was referring to John Hudson&#39;s post.
    Your post #172 was greatly appreciated, by the way. <BR> <BR>Referring to Hrant&#39;s
    post... Um, why would anyone in their right mind do anything letterpress? but
    also, whatever would be a &#34;mainstream fraktur&#34;? Mainstream for Anglo-America?
    Doesn&#39;t sound like you, Hrant. <BR> <BR>Gerald'
  created: '2003-10-16 06:21:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; why would anyone in their right mind do anything letterpress? <BR>
    <BR>Hey, you make a living at it! <BR> <BR>Anyway, I was reacting to John Butler&#39;s
    post right before mine. In fact I think a Fraktur revival might stand a better
    chance using offset. <BR> <BR>&#62; whatever would be a &#34;mainstream fraktur&#34;?
    <BR> <BR>It&#39;s tricky ground, certainly. To me it means a face that combines
    curves and angles &#40;the way the fraktur subclass of blackletter does so wonderfully&#41;,
    and uses the extender space much more richly than Roman &#40;see the blackletter
    lc &#34;h&#34; for example&#41;, but with individual letters that have conventional
    structures - like none of that funky lc &#34;y&#34; stuff, and certainly caps
    that can be deciphered easily. <BR> <BR>BTW, I can be mainstream when it&#39;s
    for a greater good. I&#39;m not an artiste. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-16 06:31:36'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: 'I kind of like the fact that Fraktur is a bit outlawed. I kind of like the
    fact that few typographers are concerned with it. Or that the general public is
    freaked out by it. Or for that matter give a rat&#39;s .... what Steven Heller
    has to say about it. <BR> <BR>I still don&#39;t get why we would want to popularize
    something so precious, and then let it get watered down by morons &#40;apologies
    to all genuine morons&#41;. <BR> <BR>Gerald '
  created: '2003-10-16 07:29:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>...see the blackletter lc &#34;h&#34; for example...</i> <BR> <BR>Please,
    let&#39;s be precise: there is no single blackletter model for a lowercase &#39;h&#39;.
    I&#39;m guessing from the context that you mean fraktur. '
  created: '2003-10-16 19:48:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Gerald, you have a point, but... <BR> <BR>John, I was talking specifically
    about the descender - blackletter &#34;h&#34;s of any category have it almost
    all the time. Look for example at pages 6-7 of Bain&#39;s book. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-16 21:06:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Gotcha. Yes, this seems to be a close to universal feature.
  created: '2003-10-16 21:41:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'More insight into Heller&#39;s Head: <BR> <BR>Recently he wrote a review
    of the book &#34;Beirut&#39;s Memory&#34; for Print magazine. It was fine, except
    for an innocent-seeming mini history of Lebanon that reeked of political propaganda
    &#40;at least to somebody with a nose sensitive to that&#41;, buttressing the
    distortions of the powers that be. I wrote a reply, and it made it into the current
    issue: <BR> <BR>&#34; <BR>I was delighted to see coverage of the book &#34;Beirut&#39;s
    Memory&#34; in the <BR>July/August issue [&#34;Double Exposure,&#34; p. 98]. Sadly,
    this delight was <BR>matched by disquiet in reading Heller&#39;s encapsulation
    of Lebanon&#39;s 17- <BR>year civil war. Living that war as a non-Arab Christian
    in largely Muslim <BR>West Beirut, I learned to glean the true motivations and
    mechanics of <BR>political propaganda. Even if I suppress my tendency to assume
    the <BR>worst, I have to note that virtually every single clause in Heller&#39;s
    history <BR>seems strongly skewed to validate the American perspective, if not
    <BR>U.S. foreign policy per se. This does not help. <BR> <BR> I&#39;m sorry that
    my first letter ever to PRINT isn&#39;t strongly related to <BR>design, except
    perhaps in this way: Graphic designers seem to have <BR>developed a burning desire
    to be politically relevant, but the degree <BR>to which they can avoid being manipulated
    depends most of all on <BR>their political sophistication. <BR>&#34; <BR> <BR>They
    did however make two [telling] edits: <BR>1&#41; &#34;Heller&#39;s history&#34;
    originally had both in capitals. <BR>2&#41; I used &#34;zeitgeist&#34; &#40;a
    carefully loaded term&#41;, not &#34;perspective&#34;. <BR> <BR>To the credit
    of Print though, they didn&#39;t allow the use of my letter as as excuse for more
    spin. That&#39;s what almost stopped me from sending it in: the fear that it would
    be capped by a &#34;carification&#34; from Heller... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-12-24 18:59:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'There he goes again!! <BR>Now that the System is after Iran for real&#42;,
    Heller is ramping up the rhetoric towards his [self-]assigned demographic: soft-headed
    designers. In the current issue of Eye magazine&#42;&#42; there&#39;s an interview
    with a young Iranian woman &#40;living in Europe since age 14&#41; who has put
    out an interesting comic book about her childhood during the Islamic Revolution.
    Any ambivalence in the interviewee is quickly redirected &#40;carefully read the
    <i>questions</i>, more than the answers&#41; towards a tacit condemnation of The
    Enemy... Who needs subtlety when your audience has the political sensitivity of
    an earth newt? <BR> <BR>&#42; <a href="http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/3341233.stm"
    target="_blank">http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/middle_east/3341233.stm</a> <BR> <BR>&#42;&#42;
    An otherwise stellar issue - a typographic gold mine, this one. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-12-29 20:55:39'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: 'I think there is a consideration to be made. I investigated the fascination
    I myself had with the Blackletter, in subsequent times, and I felt it was difficult
    to completely separate it from Nazism. Even a pretty childish old idea for some
    type designs of mine was related to it. <BR> <BR>I feel like there is a general
    perception of it associating it with Nazism, which keeps going on, independently
    from what bad journalism &#40;which here in Italy is the majority&#41; may be
    pushed to sensationalize. <BR> <BR>So Heller may be annoying to accultured designers,
    but my own doubt is he may reflect a feeling to which a large portion of people
    keep clung to: something along the lines of &#34;Adolf Hitler was not a human
    being&#34; or so. <BR> <BR>In this way my fear is it would effectively be very
    hard to &#34;undemonize&#34; Blackletter, as much as it is hard to &#34;undemonize&#34;
    the figure of Adolf Hitler or treat Nazism with more historical fairness. <BR>
    <BR>The fact is that Blackletter seems to be in many ways a &#34;dead type style&#34;,
    in the sense Ancient Greek or Latin are &#34;dead languages&#34;. So, as you try
    to make it live in modern context, you are prevented by many obstacles. <BR>How
    many times I&#39;d have wished to use it for food packaging. But they would never
    allow me to do so. <BR> <BR>What do you think?'
  created: '2005-03-25 16:08:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Concepts -unlike crazy humans like Hitler- don&#39;t die. <BR>They can go
    dormant. And they can be redeemed. <BR> <BR>hhp
  created: '2005-04-02 16:49:44'
date: '2003-09-28 01:47:57'
title: Steven Heller gone too far?

---
