---
author:
  name: dctroy
body: "I'm looking for a handwriting typeface with a bit of an edge to it. I'm working
  on an identity project to appeal to urban youngish people in their late 20s and
  30s. I'd like to find a face that's casual and has some attitude, a little graffiti
  vibe in the style of the Mossimo logo (www.mossimo.com), but not a bonafide graffiti
  face -- I need pretty good readability.\r\nThe closest thing I've found so far is
  Marydale http://www.philsfonts.com/showing.html?sku=3I00001201P2&start=1\r\n\r\nWhich
  is okay but not quite as stylish as I'm looking for.\r\nIt seems all the handwriting
  or casual script fonts seem too Hallmark greeting card/Yuppie woman \"pizzaz\" /
  Kraft salad dressing label...\r\n\r\nAny thoughts?\r\n\r\nThanks "
comments:
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Maybe I can start you out with three very different treatments so you can
    give us an idea of just \"how edgey\" you want to go:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.dafont.com/en/font.php?file=velour\">Velour</a>
    by Jason Fagone. Sort of a quill grunge classy look.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.dafont.com/en/font.php?file=aggstock_gravid\">AggstockGravid</a>
    by TarmSaft Font Factory. Hard and crude marker style.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.dafont.com/en/font.php?file=da_bomb\">Da
    Bomb</a> by Future Fonts. Basic graffiti\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 07:14:52'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "'<a href=\"http://www.outside-the-line.com/plzscriptfontpage.html\" target=\"_blank\">Plz
    Script</a>', <em>by [[Rae Kaiser]] / Outside the Line</em>, '<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/066font/wopi-script/\"
    target=\"_blank\">Wopi Script</a>', <em>by [[Piotr Wozniak]] / 066.FONT</em>,
    <em>or even</em> '<a href=\"http://www.letraset.com/eu/template1a.asp?catid=80&id=789\"
    target=\"_blank\">Pablo</a>', <em>by [[Trevor Pettit]] / Letraset</em>, <em>maybe</em>.?\r\n\r\nDav,
    <a href=\"http://www.formlos.net\" target=\"_blank\">formlos</a>"
  created: '2005-08-07 08:02:26'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Look at the new Cezanne Pro, Its Cezanne but with about 6 alternates for
    each character. '
  created: '2005-08-07 12:12:39'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Would it be out of line for me suggest that you don't speak down to your
    audience by trying to lure them in with your approximation of hip street graphic
    lingo, or by visually aligning yourself with a brand they apparently enjoy? (If
    this is your approach, maybe you should refer to the iPod logotype.) Would it
    also be out of line for me to suggest you listen to the people you are targeting,
    and maybe collect some writing samples, so that you can see how they express themselves,
    then use your research as the basis for your approach?\r\n\r\nIf there is one
    thing I learned as a graphic designer it was that you have to be a member of the
    tribe to speak the language of the tribe; you can't be a tribal observer and expect
    to be trusted. (If there is a second thing that I learned it is that a typeface
    alone is not a design solution.)"
  created: '2005-08-07 14:27:23'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Chester, you have obviously directed your comment at me, since all of the
    other replies contain only typeface names.\r\n\r\nFirst, let me say that the \"Village\"
    is great (a comment which has nothing to do with this thread).\r\n\r\n><em>If
    there is one thing I learned as a graphic designer it was that you have to be
    a member of the tribe to speak the language of the tribe</em>\r\n\r\nI think my
    descriptive terminology is strictly typographic: quill, grunge, crude marker,
    graffiti, and makes no attempts at approximating \"hip street graphic lingo.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    you mean that to be \"a member of the tribe\" you have to live and work within
    the environs of other members, then I am one of the Grand Elders, having spent
    the a great number of years in the gritty streets of NYC and East Village with
    the very people that made it \"hip.\"  East Village was just a quite Ukranian
    neighborhood at one time.\r\n\r\nNYC spray bomb graffiti styles emerged on the
    scene on subway cars during the 1960s, and on the west coast in LA around the
    same time. \"Rap\" and \"Gangstas,\" \"Bloods\" have been around for over thirty
    years and have made the \"mainsteam\" vernacular that even Soccer Moms know \"waz
    up.\"\r\n\r\nIf you mean \"tribe\" to be a member of the younger up & coming urban
    designers on the scene, then you are right, I'm out in the pasture flinging cow
    chips.\r\n\r\nYou are not <em>out of line</em> for expressing that you feel my
    comments were condescending, but just say it plain, clear and directed to the
    individual(s). Because anything I can learn about being more helpful or understanding
    to posters who seek advice would be very helpful to me. I have no \"ego\" axe
    to grind and enjoy this community immensely.\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-08-07 16:02:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's hard to tell from the brief samples of the fonts mentioned above how
    well they'd work as text fonts, which I presume is what you're after, with mention
    of readability.\r\n\r\nChester's point is interesting: does one appeal to a target
    market by using writing that looks like their writing (which might entail research
    and possibly commissioning a font), or by showing them something more stylish
    and \"aspirational\"? Reality or stereotype?\r\n\r\nOne present technique (albeit
    DM tacky) is to use a rough script on a pseudo-PostIt note, to make it look like
    a buddy is passing on a recommendation. Is that anything like your creative strategy
    Troy? I mean, whose voice is the script representing in your ID?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 17:09:05'
- author:
    name: dctroy
  body: "Thanks to everyone for your suggestions. They are really helpful. Dav, I
    wasn't aware of Rae Kaiser's fonts but I really love them. The Plz Script is the
    closest thing I've seen to what I'm looking for, and it also looks cool with her
    (his?) \"Architectural\" font. The two could work well together for my project.
    \r\n\r\nChester, obviously research is an integral part of any successful design.
    However, my target audience/market is NOT graffiti artists or taggers. I'm  looking
    for a face with an element of that kind of influence or flavor -- but a \"real\"
    graffiti face would be all wrong for my purposes. \r\n\r\nFurthermore, you seem
    to be implying that we can't design for a group outside our own, which would be
    creatively confining, to say the least. Does that mean only designers with law
    degrees can design identities for law firms? Only gourmet cooks can design cookbooks?
    If I use a face like Cezanne am I \"talking down to\" my audience because I'm
    not a 19th century French post-impresssionist painter (and neither are they)?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    you said that a typeface alone is not a design solution. Did anyone say it was?\r\n\r\nTroy\r\n\r\nP.S.\r\nAre
    people who buy Mossimo stuff a \"tribe?\" They sell that stuff at Target."
  created: '2005-08-07 17:10:46'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Norbert, actually I was replying to the original post, and not to your font
    suggestions and other comments.\r\n\r\nPlease allow me to speak specifically:
    When I spoke of \"being a member of the tribe\" I was thinking about the time
    when I worked at a design firm and we were working for a mountain bike company.
    I embraced and enjoyed the life of a mountain biker, traded in my roadie attitude
    for a mountain biker attitude, hung out with fellow mountain bikers, and competed
    in races - which we preferred to call \"timed rides\". I crashed, bled, and ate
    Clif Bars... I became a mountain biker. That was the only way that I could speak
    to my fellow mountain bikers through the work for the mountain bike company.\r\n\r\nDesign
    isn't simply applying a \"style\" to provided content; it is understanding a set
    of needs and desires and finding the way to communicate those needs and desires.
    Modernism isn't sans serif typefaces, it's philosophy. David Carson is a design
    philosopher; thousands of designers have copped his \"style\" but they have no
    idea about the philosophy behind his work.\r\n\r\nTo speak to the \"youth market
    segment\" requires much more than an edgy typeface."
  created: '2005-08-07 17:18:48'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Are people who buy Mossimo stuff a \u201Ctribe?\u201D They sell that
    stuff at Target.</em>\r\n\r\nthat's one brand name i've never minded having emblazoned
    across my chest. mostly b'cuz it looks so darn cool. i love that you can still
    get that stuff at target, and i love that they continue to update their aesthetic
    so they don't fall by the wayside as did yaga and stussy."
  created: '2005-08-07 17:21:57'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Troy, even though my story of mountain biking above implies that you DO need
    to be a full-fledged member of the tribe to speak to them, there are obviously
    levels. \r\n\r\nNo, you don't need to be a gourmet cook to design a cookbook,
    but if you are at least an amateur cook you should have insight to bring to your
    cookbook. You don't need to have a law degree, but you should talk to the lawyers
    at your law firm client and learn what they do during the course of their day.
    Unless you understand what they do it is very difficult to speak on their behalf."
  created: '2005-08-07 17:30:11'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Sorry, Chester,\r\nI carefully re-read your post and now realize you were
    offering advice in directed marketing design through depth of experience and understanding
    of the target group.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, the Voodoo Meisters of Marketing could
    care less about being aligned with any tribe except the \"RICH!\" Designers just
    offer treatments and direction on marketing campaigns, but all of the major campaign
    decisions are made by those who hold the purse strings.\r\n\r\nWhat I am really
    trying to say is that top marketers are constantly sniffing for anything up &
    coming. That's why some firms actually hire teenagers as consultants on buying
    trends. We designers are frequently just delegated to developing treatments. Though
    once in a while we (as designers) do really shine, and that makes it worth it.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 18:46:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> don\u2019t speak down to your audience\r\n\r\nBut isn't graphic design
    often about helping\r\npeople <strong>pretend</strong> to be part of a desirable
    group?\r\nThink of how companies quickly approriate\r\nfringe/hip stuff... with
    our help.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 18:58:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Some people prefer to be \"Method Actors\", some find other ways to research
    audience needs. There is equity in both or all methods.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-07 19:57:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Mossimo stuff a \u201Ctribe?\u201D \"\r\n\r\nNow I KNOW I am not part of
    that tribe, I don't even know what Mossimo is. Of course I am not young and the
    only things hip about me connect my legs to my body.  ;->\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-07 20:01:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Burberry, blackletter and the typography in Schott's miscellany: not always
    the raddest stuff is hip, y'know.\r\n\r\nFountain's Incognito and Zanzibar are
    kind of old school.\r\n\r\nSo there's probably a way to (mis)use Bickham Script
    and Zapfino Extra Pro that would be quite cool.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 21:06:47'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Troy,\r\ncould you be a little more descriptive about the branding project
    without disclosing too much? Is it a company name, service or product?\r\n\r\n><em>I
    need pretty good readability</em>\r\nI take that to mean there will be some amount
    of text more than just the logo itself, like for a restaurant menu or such.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 21:24:24'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Hey Chris,\r\nJust so you know what they mean by <a href=\"http://www.bmezine.com/tattoo/A50720/high/bmegl101465.jpg\">\"hip\"
    lettering</a>.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-07 21:39:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Just so you know what they mean by \u201Chip\u201D lettering.\"\r\n\r\nNorbert,\r\nThat
    is quite some body of work :-)\r\n\r\nGood thing this isn't an architecture forum
    talking about groin vaults :->\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-07 21:55:59'
- author:
    name: .
  body: 'Note to all: I''m sorry that I used this thread as a soapbox. I''ve done
    that a couple of times lately, and I simply must stop. With my apologies. From
    now on, my opinions will be kept to myself.'
  created: '2005-08-08 14:40:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Chester, please don''t keep your opinions to yourself--they are interesting
    ideas, and everyone is free to accept or reject them. '
  created: '2005-08-08 14:50:45'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Chester, as stated in many other topics and threads, this forum benefits
    from diverse opinions, and given the expertise level of its many contributors,
    it's no wonder it commonly attracts over 1000 visitors to stay online during peak
    hours.\r\n\r\nBack on topic:\r\nMiss Tiffany's story post today from Linotype
    includes <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/7-2520-7/linotypeego.html?PHPSESSID=0383a6dec406fab8079b44e142bf2e6e\"
    target=\"new\"><strong>Ego</strong></a>, a handwriting styled typeface.\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I beg to differ!"
  created: '2005-08-08 17:18:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chester: no way, dude.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 18:05:44'
- author:
    name: Guerella
    picture: 110740
  body: 'Norbert: I love that you linked to BME.  That is my tribe!'
  created: '2005-08-08 19:16:02'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Guerella, do you recognize whose hip it is?\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-08 20:45:35'
- author:
    name: Guerella
    picture: 110740
  body: No, she didn't put a name with the image. And I don't recognize her.
  created: '2005-08-08 21:32:56'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Funny . . . hip or not, it's pretty close to my <a href=\"http://www.fontdiner.com/fdcfpfont09.gif\"
    target=\"_new\">Sweet Rosie font</a>\r\n\r\n:D"
  created: '2005-08-09 20:57:17'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: dctroy, Its often not the typeface but how its used. The point about Cezanne
    Pro is you have so many options to make it look custom, but as Norbert has pointed
    out without knowing the context of your typeface useage, its just a stab in the
    dark.
  created: '2005-08-09 22:04:49'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: '''wildstyle'' graffiti is a dialect of american capitalism.'
  created: '2005-08-09 22:09:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hope she bought a license for Sweet Rosie. Buying a font for tatoos could
    be a prickly issue :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-09 23:29:50'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nI hate to <strong>needle</strong> you but, if you keep those
    kinds of comments up, you just might get <strong>stuc</strong>k with the title
    of resident <strong>pun</strong>dit."
  created: '2005-08-10 18:35:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">'wildstyle\u2019 graffiti is a dialect of american capitalism.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think so. It's an activity of those marginalized by the capitalist system,
    who can't afford to rent advertising space or buy a storefront to get their message
    seen.\r\n\r\nIn a sense, then, it is a product of capitalism, but in that case
    so was communism."
  created: '2005-08-10 19:02:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, Communism was mostly a result of a desire for decency, which has always
    existed in Man, and sometimes gets the attention it deserves (just not these days).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 19:05:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I hate to needle you but, if you keep those kinds of comments up, you just
    might get stuck with the title of resident pundit.\"\r\n\r\nNick,\r\nPlease don't
    stick me with that label:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-10 19:34:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Communism was mostly a result of a desire for decency,\r\n\r\nNo, while
    there have always been \"communal\" social/political movements, Communism per
    se was a specific political system and movement, deriving from Marx's 1848 Manifesto.
    It's the Hegelian element in Marx's theory that I was alluding to: capitalism
    being the thesis producing, through economic determinism, its antithesis, communism.\r\n\r\nSo,
    there are beer and smokes billboards plastered all over the poor side of town,
    that's the thesis, and a subway car covered in grafitti is its antithesis."
  created: '2005-08-10 20:43:36'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "\r\n\r\n[Nick, would you mind to see my first font \u2014 Critique/sans serif
    \"Untitled: First font\"  ; thank you]"
  created: '2005-08-10 21:06:56'
- author:
    name: dctroy
  body: "Dan:\r\nI love Cezanne (the typeface AND the artist) but I think it's too
    formal and antiquated looking for what I'm going for. \r\nThe project is an identity
    for a line of all-natural soaps that are handmade in Brooklyn by a friend of mine.
    They look great, I think. \r\nHere is a link to a photo: http://serv1.uploadengine.com/1123705268D.jpg\r\nThey
    smell terrific too. You almost want to eat them.\r\n\r\nWe wanted to do something
    that looks casual and contemporary and \"youth\" oriented, in this case middle
    to upper-middle income people who consider themselves fairly with it. We also
    wanted to avoid the romantic/precious references to historical styles (Laura Ashley,
    for example) that are so common in this category. Thirdly, we wanted something
    that would appeal to women AND men. \r\n\r\nI was thinking the handwriting look
    would reinforce the handmade nature of the soaps -- each one really is different.
    \r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 21:24:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm sorry Nick, your neat little set of perfectly cubical boxes fail yet
    again to contain the human reality: the principles behind communism are much older
    than Marx, and seeing them as being a result of Capitalism smells very... capitalistic!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 21:56:59'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Remember Dove is an italic (I think marketed to women) and Irish Spring is
    a bold Italic (marketed to men). I still believe how you use the type will hit
    your demographic group. Color and even size of the type will make a difference.
    Maybe you could market the soap like they market lagers, make it "Brooklyn Clean"
    or something to that effect.  '
  created: '2005-08-10 22:24:55'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: ">In a sense, then, it is a product of capitalism, but in that case so was
    communism.\r\n\r\nWildstyle graffiti is driven by the need for 'awareness', using
    inane and repetative 'advertising' in the global public realm. But it's not profit
    making, so i guess it's more aligned with consumerism (like skateboarding is now).
    If 99.9% of graffiti did not look nearly so similar, I'd think differently.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 22:49:54'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: ' '
  created: '2005-08-10 22:49:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Hrant, how DO you manage to stay so in touch with reality? And so untainted
    by the stench of capitalism? Is the secret an all-natural soap, handmade in Los
    Angeles, featuring a with-it handscript on the packaging? What IS that font?
  created: '2005-08-10 23:18:20'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em> the principles behind communism are much older than Marx</em>\r\n\r\nHrant,
    this statement is generally true, but Marx's Manifesto was developed, I believe,
    in response to specific economic trends which were emerging at the time he wrote
    it; specifically, it was a reaction to emergent industrialism.\r\n\r\nMost people
    believe, because their history textbooks tell them so, that the American Civil
    War was waged to put an end to slavery. This tenet is utter nonsense: it was waged
    to see which manner of slavery would prevail -- chattel slavery or wage slavery.
    American industrial output exceeded its agricultural output for the first time
    in 1850, which is when the debate began showing up on the American political stage
    (the Missouri Compromise). The basic point of contention:\r\n<ul><li>Factories
    required large labor pools from which to draw workers, and thus required large
    cities; and </li>\r\n<li>Large cities were inimical to slavery, because they offered
    anonymous refuges for runaway slaves;</li></ul>\r\nBy this point in time, most
    European powers were no longer in the chattel slavery business, but wage slavery
    was a growing concern throughout the industrializing world. So, yes, Marx's specific
    brand of communism was indeed inspired by capitalism: it's just a shame that such
    a dysfunctional bunch of brigands as the Bolsheviks tried to pull it off...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 13:58:24'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "Troy\r\nI think <a href=\"http://www.veer.com/products/typedetail.aspx?image=UMT0000027\">Brisa</a>
    could be a good choose but you know, its mine and i m not very objective but I
    can see it in soaps labels ;)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nAlejandro Paul\r\nwww.sudtipos.com"
  created: '2005-08-11 14:10:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Alejandro,\r\n\"Brisa\" is not mine but I think it is pretty damn beautiful.
    Good Work! I will keep it in mind for future projects of mine. \r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-11 14:20:54'
- author:
    name: Ale Paul
    picture: 110500
  body: "hehe Chris, sorry for my english, the font is yours or whoever wants licence
    it :) but anyway I m still not objective!\r\n\r\nAlejandro Paul\r\nwww.sudtipos.com"
  created: '2005-08-11 18:06:35'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: one of my favorite [[grafitti]]-inspired fonts is <a href="http://letterheadfonts.com/contributors/chuckdavis/menace.shtml">Menace</a>
    by [[Letterhead Fonts]].
  created: '2005-08-11 18:17:32'
date: '2005-08-07 06:00:53'
title: Hip Handwriting Font?

---
