---
author:
  name: jeffrey
body: "I am from a cartoon background, no typography skills compared to what I have
  seen just browsing this forum. I have become a decent web site developer and am
  trying to create my logo. I want to do simple, clean websites. So I wanted a simple
  logo. But how simple is too simple? That is my problem. So far the one I came up
  with is just straight helvetica neue bold. In an attempt to not be too dull, I came
  up with the not so unique idea of reversing the last letter and giving it a different
  color. Not the most brilliant idea, but now I sort of like it. Any suggestions are
  greatly appreciated.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Sorry Jeff, it looks like a mistake unless you animate it and have the y
    revolve. You might also develop a positioning line like: Elegant website design.
    You need something to direct people to your core business, even if its not a tagline. '
  created: '2005-08-09 22:11:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You really think people could think that's a mistake? I actually like it
    - it creates a playful separation between a \"real\" word and a colloquial suffix
    (assuming it's supposed to say \"designy\", not \"design-why\" or something).
    But what I might try is: Futura; and a \"y\" of a flipped-\"j\" + \"u\" form.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-09 22:19:23'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: I am confused by the concept. Is it design-ee or design-why?
  created: '2005-08-09 22:42:47'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "The concept is design-ee. I'm not sure how to clarify that best in the logo
    either. Would just keeping it one color help?\r\n\r\nI would like a tagline, I
    just haven't thought of one that sounds designy enough yet. If the tag line simply
    said web development or web dev, would that be enough to make it read as design-ee
    for most people?\r\n\r\nThanks for the comments so far! I will put them to work
    on my next effort. I have browsed quite a few threads and seen some nice results
    from the advice on the forum."
  created: '2005-08-09 23:27:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ">  I\u2019m not sure how to clarify that\r\n\r\nBy making the \"y\" as much
    a part of the word as possible. Which is why I suggested that alternate form (it
    allows more convincing spacing).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 00:04:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "...But loose the light green - not enough contrast. A deeper green or a greyer
    would work better. \r\n\r\n> I am confused by the concept. Is it design-ee or
    design-why?\r\n\r\nClients will ask this too & clients don't like to feel stupid
    & do at the drop of a hat. I worry about this concept for that reason. What about
    a similar name that sets up a dialog. Like Ydesign. This & designy may both already
    exist. Have you checked? What about the URL? Can you get 'designy.com'?"
  created: '2005-08-10 02:44:34'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I don't think it's the concept that's the problem, just the treatment.\r\nAs
    Hrant suggested, you may have to take it up a few levels before it can become
    <em>brilliant</em>!\r\n\r\nYour skills as both a designer and problem solver must
    be demonstrated by your \"mark.\" I won't tell you what to do, but I will tell
    you that it's not a bad idea.\r\n\r\nMaybe the word/sound/meaning of <em>disign-ee</em>
    works more against you than your concept. IS your company name \"Design-y\"?\r\nMaybe
    there are other variants which might be more interesting:\r\nDizyn-e, Dezynee,
    Desygn?\r\n\r\nAnyway... Hrant, do you want to show them how flipping characters
    can be interesting?\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I flip characters with style!"
  created: '2005-08-10 03:03:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> do you want to show them how flipping characters can be interesting?\r\n\r\n:->\r\nIn
    the presence of the master?!\r\n(FYI guys, Norbert has an interesting Typographica
    nameplate in the pipeline...)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 03:29:49'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Over a week ago, before I left for vacation, I was working on a nameplate
    design for <a href=\"http://www.typographi.com\" target=\"new\">Typographica</a>
    (they openly invite design submissions). I had been playing around with Hrant's
    typeface Patria and after a few tweaks and emails after I got back, we both agreed
    on a version to submit.\r\n\r\nStephen Coles will try to get it into their nameplate
    rotation at Typographi.com (hit refresh button on their site and the nameplate
    changes) but you can see a <a href=\"http://www.acmedigital.net/Aimages/typog_5.jpg\"
    target=\"new\">preview here</a>.\r\n\r\nWe weren't planning to show it on Typophile,
    but after you see it you'll understand why this topic kinda forced us to.\r\n\r\nWith
    all do respect to Jeffrey and the Forum, we do not want to divert from the main
    reason for this thread... critique of \"designy.\""
  created: '2005-08-10 04:07:43'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: Whoops! Hit "Post Comment" by mistake.
  created: '2005-08-10 04:19:29'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Jeff,\r\n\r\nI like the name, and I think it's a good idea to keep it simple.
    \ Have you tried keeping Design all upper case and y lowercase?  <strong>DESIGNy</strong>,
    or do it the other way around.  And maybe try out some other fonts."
  created: '2005-08-10 05:42:30'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nI'm really impressed with Patria.  Looks really wonderful!"
  created: '2005-08-10 05:50:08'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Norbert,\r\n\r\nGreat-looking nameplate!  I love old paper, print, and anything
    that has that worn look from decades of use.  Lately, I've been bidding on old
    paper, and photographs (tintype, etc) on eBay for personal design projects.  And
    I'd like to get a complete wood type alphabet, and maybe digitize it."
  created: '2005-08-10 05:55:34'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Thanks, Lauri,\r\n\r\nbut let's not forget Jeffrey's request for guidance.\r\n\r\nJeffrey,\r\nto
    restate my opinion of flipped 'y' it's a good concept but make it work within
    the context of the message. My flipping of \"gra\" made sense in that the audience
    is type-minded and will recognize the significance in both type design and as
    homage to the hot metal days of \"backwards and upside down\" (though mine are
    just flipped).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 14:45:54'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I was going to suggest flipping/rotating and colouring a different character
    so that the designy reads without any ambiguity, it might be possible that just
    colouring the dot on the i might give that simple, clean appearance. If you decide
    you prefer the y flipped you need to close up the space with the n. To emphasise
    the meaning and comfort your reader your tag could be something that also ends
    in a (coloured, flipped) y (either real or created) like simply or pretty (that's
    why I'm not a copywriter).\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-08-10 14:54:04'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: ">What about the URL? Can you get \u2018designy.com\u2019?\r\n\r\nYes, that
    is domain. So I really want to work this so that designy reads design-ee and not
    design why. I just read some of the new suggestions, and will be working on my
    logo some more today. Thanks again for the really helpful input everyone! I will
    be back soon with a few new attempts. :)"
  created: '2005-08-10 16:21:11'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I like it. The problem, though, is that 'designy' doesn't equate to 'I want
    to do simple, clean websites.'\r\n\r\nTo me, 'designy' is a generic term for 'fluff
    it up by adding a bunch of fru-fru decoration to it' which seems to be the opposite
    of 'simple, clean websites'.\r\n\r\nBut that could just be me. ;0)"
  created: '2005-08-10 16:35:52'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Here's a quick thought. Design-E\r\n\r\nwhere \"E\" stands for excellence,
    exceptional and \"Ever so cool!\"\r\nGotta run, back on line later.\r\n \r\n----------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-08-10 17:30:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What about \"Designee\", as in the client is one? But really, I think \"Designy\"
    is best. Sure, it's a little bit self-deprecating, but it's a humble, humerous
    and honest way to break the ice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 17:40:20'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "I am hoping it will be a playful thing. \"Designy\" being a little \"froufrou\"
    but the design being clean and simple.\r\n\r\nHere is my latest attempt, using
    Futura. I kept it all black for now to avoid posting 30 different color combinations.
    I used the idea of a custom y also.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo2.gif\">logo2.gif</a>"
  created: '2005-08-10 18:29:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the son-of-my-idea, #3, works best. The \"d\": at first I was going
    to suggest trimming its ascender, but then I realized it gives a nice character
    to the mark; and you could shorten it (hey, maybe even lengthen it!) as needed,
    maybe even using the vertical line as a \"flexible\" part of your identity. One
    thing I <strong>would</strong> change though is make the descenders of the \"g\"
    and the \"y\" the same, probably by trimming the former and lengthening the latter,
    maybe even making both end horizontally (no up-curve).\r\n\r\nHere's another idea,
    if you wanted more whimsy/complexity:\r\nmake the righthand stem of the \"n\"
    a slight diagonal, and use a\r\nparallel diagonal arm in the \"y\" (instead of
    the \"u\" component).\r\nOr what about joining the \"n\" and \"y\" by sharing
    a stem?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 18:39:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> Or what about joining the \u201Cn\u201D and \u201Cy\u201D by sharing a
    stem?\r\n\r\nI like that. It feels less 'clever' but that might be the right feeling.
    \r\n\r\nYou could also just color a lower case y grey & be done.\r\n\r\nor make
    the descender go straight ( maybe long? ) to mirror the d.\r\n\r\nI think Darrel
    ( Aluminum) is right when he talks about the venacular associations of the name
    but that is an opportunity as much as a pitfall. More clients including marketing
    folk think we might just be too designy - as Hrant said bringing it up in the
    name is also humourous. Then being wicked simple in style is a great visual joke
    in and of itself. Like writting fat in skinny letters or the opposite. \r\n\r\nThe
    reversed y is a little designy actually. But just a little."
  created: '2005-08-10 20:33:59'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "I'm not too worried about the association, I think it will be more of a positive
    than a negative. But I would like to get it to read \"design-ee\"  rather than
    \"design-why\" as much as possible.\r\n\r\nNo. 3 was my favorite also, despite
    my wanting a backwards \"y.\" Here is my next round based on that.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo3.gif\">logo3.gif</a>\r\n\r\nedit:
    got a little eager and added this.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo3f.gif\">logo3f.gif</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 21:35:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think 3a has a slightly better chance of being read correctly, but 3c is
    quite a bit more interesting. But for both of them, a taller \"d\". And I might
    also try dumping the dot of the \"i\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 22:09:46'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Please chime in, but I read the new ones as design ny as Design New York.
    Jeffery where are you located will this be a problem?
  created: '2005-08-10 22:35:40'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'I think you might need to think of other concepts like: DesignER (emergency
    room, or emergency repair) or web catching design, implying designs that forfill
    website commerence goals. Just a couple of thoughts'
  created: '2005-08-10 22:42:22'
- author:
    name: tyleryoung
    picture: 110161
  body: "I agree that 3a is the most promising direction. The direction represented
    by 3c and 3d is certainly more graphical, but it gets lost between the typographical
    and the graphical. By that I mean: it's not far enough one way or the other, and
    ends up coming across as 'clever'.\r\n\r\nAs such, it takes me out of the mental
    state of percieving the brand the logo represents, and makes me think of how clever
    the designer is, what he might be reaching for, and whether or not he succeeded.\r\n\r\nSo:
    I vote for a less obtrusive direction, probably typographic, and let the notion
    of the word 'designy' speak your message, without any graphical wizardry to reinforce
    that message (notice I could have used the word 'sans' there, but resisted and
    used 'without' instead).\r\n\r\nTaking that train of thought to your 3f series,
    while I like the fact that the 'e' takes your eye to the dot in the 'i', I think
    the treatment is largely unnecessary, and even slightly destructive to the delivery
    of the brand."
  created: '2005-08-10 23:24:45'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: ">I vote for a less obtrusive direction, probably typographic, and let the
    notion of the word \u2018designy\u2019 speak your message, without any graphical
    wizardry to reinforce that message\r\n\r\nI agree. I think I've gone a little
    too far. Hmm. now I'm back to Helvetica neue. It's simple, I actually love Helvetica
    Neue&mdash;it has a pretty 'y' and I think that keeping everything one color helps.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo4.gif\">logo4.gif</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 01:04:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Too dark (a problem especially at small sizes and onscreen).\r\nToo much
    separation between \"design\" and \"y\".\r\nToo Helvetica.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 01:35:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Not 'designy' enough for me... \r\n\r\nHelvetica has to be used in a pretty
    careful & deliberate manner to work well. That was too easy. The y links up while
    it is in reverse for the first time though...\r\n\r\nMaybe a bold version of another
    face will help. You will to modify the face ( or something) to make the thing
    yours though."
  created: '2005-08-11 03:35:06'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "Is there a good font that has a similar look to Helvetica, in particular
    the \"y\"? I don't really know why Helvetica is a problem. I'm guessing it is
    overused? Here it is in Futura again, same basic idea. A little lighter color.
    I'm not sure what the final color will be yet, but it probably will not be grey
    with a white background.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.designy.com/logo/logo5.gif\">logo5.gif</a>\r\n\r\nI
    like the bottom 2 the best. But I also liked the Helvetica version. ;)"
  created: '2005-08-11 03:53:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Of those, I would go with 5g.\r\nBut I think 3a and 3c were better.\r\n\r\nHelvetica's
    problem here (it has others elsewhere)\r\nis indeed that it's too common. It's
    not designy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 04:21:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One other thing: with the two descenders facing away from each other like
    that, the pattern is too strong I think, too distracting. When they were facing
    the same direction it worked, but now I might actually suggest making them different
    (again).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 04:22:51'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "Thank you for all the input, hrant. I will try the lighter version of Futura
    again with this idea tomorrow. I alternated the descenders in this version. \r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.designy.com/logo/logo6.gif\">logo6.gif</a>\r\n\r\nedit: I am
    sleepy. I meant to do this to 5g but did it to the wrong ones."
  created: '2005-08-11 05:18:49'
- author:
    name: tyleryoung
    picture: 110161
  body: "Wow. When you first suggested dropping the dot over the 'i', Hrant, I resisted.
    That is, I didn't think it would work, because that dot not only balances the
    ascender value of the logo with the descender (left to right, that is), but it
    gave the logo a playful quality that I liked.\r\n\r\nBut now that I see it without
    the dot, I must admit, the word flows quicker through my mind than before. In
    fact, I don't even realize it isn't there at first.\r\n\r\nYou guys have amazing
    eyes for detail.\r\n\r\nGood show."
  created: '2005-08-11 06:32:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<cite>Helvetica\u2019s problem here (it has others elsewhere)\r\nis indeed
    that it\u2019s too common. It\u2019s not designy.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think the fact
    that it is common and isn't designy are its virtues in this case, the adventures
    with Futura look as though have too much effort put into them, whereas Helvetica,
    due in part to its ubiquity, can claim that clean and simple tag. I would like
    to see you try the same style with the roman weight, to increase the common feel
    (or Arial, if I tag this on here maybe no-one will notice).\r\nThe context of
    the logo should also be addressed, what else is going to appear on the screen,
    how much air you give it, scale etc. will be critical.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-08-11 14:25:06'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "I admit I am a fan of Helvetica. But I don't want to appear <em>too</em>
    common or simple either! I also had another idea last night, which may be cartoony.
    But while I want to go for \"clean and simple\" I don't want to go for dull, so
    cartoony might be a good thing.\r\n\r\nI also thought the dot on the \"i\" would
    look better, but I agree after removing it that it looks better without.\r\n\r\nHere
    are the latest.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo7-12.gif\">logo7-12.gif</a>"
  created: '2005-08-11 16:06:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> try the same style with the roman weight\r\n\r\nIf you want an ironic effect,
    I think this is right. The difficulty in pulling of an ironic design can be higher...
    The question is what effect are you gunning for? I don't want suggest that one
    effect or the other is right. Whatever effect is desired it should be a delibertate
    and historically aware decision.\r\n\r\n> The context of the logo should also
    be addressed\r\n\r\nYes. Totally!\r\n\r\nJeffery, there is alot of carry-over
    mid century modernism in graphic design for the architecture/retail trade. Lighting,
    pens, furniture. It's a kind of 'safe' othodoxy. It's seems like one of the things
    that emigre magazine was in opposition to. It's a kind of retro style. It also
    remains very popular. This isn't bad ( or good ) per se - it's just that there
    is a history & you should probably be aware of it. Do you know what I am talking
    about? If so, is this history something you want to tap? Or is you intended direction
    different? You might have something quite different in mind.\r\n\r\nhere are some
    urls that trade in the sensibility I am refering to\r\nhttp://www.cassina.com/index_ok.html\r\nhttp://www.petermiller.com/\r\n\r\nGiven
    that you are a web developer the direction I have described makes sense to me
    in that you can be seen as an un-fussy & reliable source of services. But to be
    seen as more than 'simple' the design will have to be sophiticated. The power
    of the identity will come from the context or way that that your mark is used
    in as much as or ideally more than the logo itself.\r\n\r\nI think that's why
    Tim is quite rightly bringing up context. \r\n\r\nOne thing I am not completely
    clear on is, is yours a technical service in the main, or primarily a design service?
    I thought I knew & then I re-read the posts & I realized that i was making an
    assumption that you were mainly offering design. Now I think I may have mis-understood.
    If I have - that would be part of the context too.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 16:30:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you must use a grot, use Unica.\r\n\r\nOf those, 8.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 16:32:06'
- author:
    name: Peter G.
    picture: 109459
  body: "Jeffery, these are looking good. You've got a great concept and you're getting
    some great results. I would agree with what some others have said, that Helvetica
    is not the best choice here. To me, it comes across as too industrial and sterile--not
    very designy.I think my favorite so far is 5g, but in lighter style like 11. As
    a side note, do you have any of your previous web design work you could post on
    your site? I love seeing other designer's work.\r\n\r\nTo everyone else: your
    input is great, keep it coming. I know from <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/10008\"
    title=\"Critique of law firm logo\">past</a> <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/12743\"
    title=\"Critique of design logo\">experience</a> how much help it is to have your
    input on a logo design and I'm sure Jeffery is feeling the same way. Just reading
    through this thread, I've already learned a lot."
  created: '2005-08-11 18:39:07'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "Hold up.\r\n\r\n3b, with the futura has great promise.\r\n\r\nIMO here is
    why:\r\n\r\n1.)\"Designy\" is a term used for over-design, over-decoration..\r\n\r\n2.)
    Using Futura and having the n & y connect; is so simple,\r\nit's anything but
    designy -- nice oxymoron (proper usage?)--smart.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 20:20:20'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "Logo 10 is also good.\r\n\r\nLight, simple, and the flip of the y makes a
    great contradiction\r\nto the name \"designy\".\r\n\r\nThe beauty of 10, is that
    the flipped character, as a focal point,\r\nis even more simple than 3b, though
    it's not as elegant.\r\n\r\nIMO."
  created: '2005-08-11 20:24:35'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "Thanks to all for sticking with me on my quest for a good logo!\r\n\r\nOne
    thing I think I may not have made clear is the concept of clean and simple. I
    think that was too short a description, so I will try to explain my idea more
    clearly. It's not that I want to do simple design like Jakob Nielson's <a href=\"http://useit.com/\">useit.com</a>.
    While it is simple and clean, I also find it visually horrid. I find typophile.com
    to be simple and clean while also being visually pleasing and to me it is what
    \"designy\" <em>should</em> mean! So I think that my real goal might be to change
    the meaning, at least for some.\r\n\r\nThat said, type is one area where I am
    no master. But I am certainly willing to be persistent in my pursuit of a visually
    appealing mark. :)\r\n\r\nToday, I tried yet a different font and a more designy
    approach. I liked the fact that it had a different \"g\" than helvetica while
    it had a similar \"y\". It's another common font, Franklin Gothic. I did alter
    the \"d\" and \"y\" a little though.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo13.gif\">logo13.gif</a>"
  created: '2005-08-11 20:53:46'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Since you flopped the y the chopped off d looks like a flopped h. Plus you
    made the d bigger so it weight is heavier than the other characters. Keep going,
    I like the Franklin Gothic g better its more interesting. '
  created: '2005-08-11 22:27:26'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "Here it is with a normal \"d\", I just extended it's ascender to be about
    as tall as the Futura version. Not sure why, but I like it a little taller.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo14.gif\">logo14.gif</a>"
  created: '2005-08-12 03:47:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: What if you started puuling the bits around to meet each other like Hrant
    was talking about? I see some other connections you could make. It could even
    be a woven shape around the word. That would suggest planning / architecture /
    design all in one. Then you would not need a reversed 'y'. Just thinkin'...
  created: '2005-08-12 05:24:03'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: ">As a side note, do you have any of your previous web design work you could
    post on your site?\r\n\r\n\r\nI could put up some links to a few sites if that
    is okay here.\r\n\r\nI haven't got many that I have done myself, I've been going
    thru 3rd parties for the last few years, and most won't let me claim anything
    as mine. Which is why I am wanting to get my own site up and ween myself off the
    third party work that requires that. ;)\r\n\r\nI also do some \"experimental\"
    and humor stuff just for fun."
  created: '2005-08-12 06:06:50'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: ">Then you would not need a reversed \u2018y\u2019.\r\n\r\nBut I like the
    reversed \"y\"! Is it not getting any more readable? I have played around with
    coming up with a graphic icon, an astronaut with a capitol \"D\" for a helment,
    but it turned out looking more like a mascot and probably no one would notice
    the helment was a \"D\". Any idea how I could use an astronaut succesfully here?
    My idea was the astronaut sort of leaning in from the left of the logo, with a
    word bubble coming from him and the logo in that bubble."
  created: '2005-08-12 06:17:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: What if you riffed off of the Applomission sewn patches? The it would be less
    litteral but you could cop the style. That would be cool. The Orb did that with
    their album U.F.ORB...
  created: '2005-08-12 08:34:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "These\r\n\r\nhttp://gerathsdesign.com/penplaque001.JPG\r\n\r\n&\r\n\r\nhttp://www.electroshot.com/orb/ufoffback.jpg"
  created: '2005-08-12 08:37:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Franklin is one of the most readable sans fonts ever made. But (because of
    that, eh, Eben?) it doesn't work in a logo, at least not for me. For one thing,
    the \"g\" is taking up too much attention (and its ear is breaking up the compactness
    that removing the dot of the \"i\" enabled). I'm glad you dumped the chopped \"d\"
    idea though.\r\n\r\nIf for some reason you do decide to keep this direction, I
    would point out (nobody else noticed?!) that the stroke contrast of the \"y\"
    is way off: the short arm is too thin; and the long arm/descender is probably
    too thick (although it's hard to tell from that low-res rendering).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-12 18:40:57'
- author:
    name: Peter G.
    picture: 109459
  body: "> <cite>I could put up some links to a few sites if that is okay here.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    could always post the links on your website (so as not to get off topic here)."
  created: '2005-08-12 18:42:47'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "Here are the links on my site. Not much there, as I've done few sites on
    my own.\r\n\r\nedit: <a href=\"http://nonesvch.org/links.htm\">links.htm</a> (I
    put it on the wrong domain.)\r\n\r\nI shall continue to pursue a good logo design!
    I heard mention of the word \"industrial,\" I wouldn't mind my logo looking a
    bit industrial or \"post modern\" but I'm not sure what everyone's ideas of what
    these are is the same.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-12 20:28:56'
- author:
    name: ken
    picture: 109972
  body: "Link doesn't appear to work for me. Jeffrey, have you considered keeping
    \"design\" in your sans serif treatment and adding a y in as a hand drawn red
    letter. Sort of a copy edit feel. This would make it read as \"design-ee\" and
    add a touch of irony in being a correction.\r\n\r\n(I haven't read all the posts
    to see if someone had suggested this cause yeesh this thread is long)"
  created: '2005-08-12 20:46:50'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "I had the link on the wrong domain, I think it's working now. The handwritten
    \"y\" is a cute idea, I will try that. Here is my latest attempt. I made a simple
    little \"d\" graphic.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo15.gif\">logo15.gif</a>"
  created: '2005-08-12 21:51:25'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "Next day, even I don't care for the \"d\" graphic. I wasn't happy with the
    \"g\" either, so here is one with a \"g\" that I actually like.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo16.gif\">logo16.gif</a>"
  created: '2005-08-13 16:55:04'
- author:
    name: strata
  body: "out of all your reversed y options I like number 13... this is because the
    unusual d balances out the reversed y. \r\nHave you tried just a green y the right
    way round? I know it's possibly a boring approach but when I tried a couple options
    it does work quite nicely.. I used adobe myriad pro for one and then tried using
    a serif font for the y on another (myriad pro & Adobe Caslon Pro italic) for a
    different approach to emphasising the y.\r\n\r\nhttp://img262.imageshack.us/img262/6706/designy2ob.jpg\r\n\r\nout
    of these 3 my favourite is the italic y. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-13 21:46:15'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: ">Have you tried just a green y the right way round?\r\n\r\nI did, but I think
    that makes it more design-why that design-ee.\r\n\r\nI tried a different approach
    today. It's more ordinary, but I am having a hard time finding a font I like that
    isn't \"over-used.\"\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo17.gif\">logo17.gif</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-13 22:27:11'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "Staying in a similar direction as the last logo, a big \"D\" icon. I like
    this because I've always wanted to use that font for something.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo18.gif\">logo18.gif</a>"
  created: '2005-08-15 16:30:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> Franklin is one of the most readable sans fonts ever made. But (because
    of that, eh, Eben?) it doesn\u2019t work in a logo, at least not for me.\r\n\r\nHrant,
    Microsoft uses Franklin of course... I think it isn't so much that it can't be
    used it's that you have to use it skillfully. The biggest danger in my view is
    that you look early 90's in a hurry ( it seems like it has a popular face in logo
    design then ) and you start to look like a Microsoft-alike. It depends on treatment
    of course. Avoiding italic helps.  Also, when you use a font for a work mark you
    sometimes have to change letterforms ( Microsoft did! ), and sometime you just
    reject a font because it has a bad design (for your purposes) in one or more of
    it's letters.\r\n\r\nSo I don't know if your suggestion about franklin works for
    me so far ... I think it's too much of a blanket statement.\r\n\r\nJeffery, I
    think that 16 really could work...\r\n\r\nThe only probllem I saw was that with
    the y reversed the bowl of the y seems too tight. I wonder if it might be fixxed
    by a bigger or wider bowl - if for instance you built a y from a u shape & reversed
    it. I'll show you what I mean f you like...\r\n\r\n> I am having a hard time finding
    a font I like that isn\u2019t \u201Cover-used.\u201D\r\n\r\nIt's not the font's
    fault. Any font has potential. In a well used font you have to use it better to
    make it seem great. A fancy new font is just a lovelly shortcut where the font
    designer has done the work, that is until that font becomes too popular.\r\n\r\nVersion
    17 seems like a great logo for a stuffed toy! Like a beanie baby. See what I mean?\r\n\r\n18
    seems pretty well outside your stated intent! Are you going for something different
    now?"
  created: '2005-08-15 19:35:43'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: ">Version 17 seems like a great logo for a stuffed toy! Like a beanie baby.
    See what I mean?\r\n\r\nNo, I'm not seeing it. Is the \"D\" too plush?\r\n\r\n18
    seems pretty well outside your stated intent! Are you going for something different
    now?\r\n\r\nWell, I pretty much ran out of ideas when I came up with that one.
    I really want a simple text logo that doesn't take up much space. But I just can't
    seem to find a font that has the right feel. I've played around in Illustrator
    trying to make letters, but I have no clue what I'm doing there.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-15 23:05:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> No, I\u2019m not seeing it. Is the \u201CD\u201D too plush\r\n\r\nMaybe
    it's just my own associations. It feels very friendly & warm & welcoming despite
    the fact that it is blocky etc. Maybe the fatness of the D too. To me it felt
    'toy'.\r\n\r\n> But I just can\u2019t seem to find a font that has the right feel.\r\n\r\nTwo
    ideas: Maybe re-state your objective to yourself. eg - what is the 'right feel'?\r\n\r\nSometimes
    if you work on something too long it's easy to loose sight of where you want to
    go - Also you could take a 2-3 day holiday from it. You may see things differently
    with fresh eyes.\r\n\r\nIt's probably good that you started taking some additional
    directions. Even if you throw them away.\r\n\r\nYou could also use a pencil...
    Sounds obvious - but it does make for a different thought process than the computer.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    I think 16 is pretty close to something you could use too."
  created: '2005-08-16 00:09:28'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "Thanks Eben. Here is 16 with a different \"y\" and \"g\". I left the y normal,
    flipping it makes a distracting thing between it and the \"g\".\r\n\r\nAlso, I
    did 19b just as wishful thinking that I could get away with it.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo19.gif\">logo19.gif</a>"
  created: '2005-08-16 03:17:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I like these \r\n\r\n- the 19b makes me think of big NYC clothing shops for
    some reason. The close set letters seem very 70's. It's well done, but the associations
    I get seem weird for your purpose.\r\n\r\n- I was playing with 19a bcause it seems
    to be so close to a finnished work - I tried several things. The one liked best
    was \r\n\r\na. split the letters in half down the middle using the base of the
    e as a guide.\r\nb. Split each letter down the middle from top to bottonm using
    the cut tail of the g & y as guides.\r\nc. both\r\n\r\nIf you do both then each
    part can have a slighly different color maybe. Subtle, I would say- 20% different
    maybe. Then you would be suggesting assembalege & systems. You are a sytems guy
    no?\r\n\r\nAnyway, 19a seems quite close. \r\n\r\nBTW - I agree with you about
    the flip. I tried that too to see what you meant.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-16 08:03:11'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "I will try the splitting, that does sound like a good idea.\r\n\r\nThe 19b
    was a play/rip on the logo for a <a href=\"http://www.designgraphics.com.au/\">design
    magazine</a>.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-16 15:32:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "19a is the best so far. I was waiting for you to get rid of that flipped
    'y'. It was driving me nuts. It seemed like one step more than necessary and was
    a bit confusing. The lc 'y' looks off rather than backwards because it's so nearly
    symmetrical, so it confused my eye, which kept looking for other weird characters
    where there were none.\r\n\r\nThe 'd' seems a hair too far from the 'e', as well."
  created: '2005-08-16 19:15:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "About 19a:\r\n- I'd make the terminals of \"e\" and \"s\" flat.\r\n- The
    bottom-rights of the descender curves on \"g\" and \"y\" seem a bit too thick,
    but it could be a low-res effect.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-16 19:22:28'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "Here is another version. PDF this time so all the flaws are easy to see!
    :)\r\n\r\nI flattened the terminals and made the desender curves thin. I also
    did a two-tone version.\r\n\r\nSo no one liked the big fat letters?\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo20.pdf\">logo20.pdf</a>"
  created: '2005-08-16 21:40:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Lookin' good.\r\n- The arches of \"n\" and \"y\" should match.\r\n- I'd make
    the stems of \"i\" and \"d\" a hair thinner.\r\n- I think a taller \"d\" would
    be really class.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-16 21:48:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Two more things:\r\n- Match up the bottom terminals of \"e\" and \"s\".\r\n-
    The \"y\" looks a little wide (probably because the tops of letters have more
    apparent importance). But that might actually be better...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-16 21:53:16'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "I think I used the \"d\" to make both the \"g\" and \"y\". I redid the y
    using the \"n\" and thinned the \"d\" and \"i\" and evened out the \"e\" and \"s\"
    terminals in this one. Oh, and made the \"d\" a little taller!\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/logo21.pdf\">logo21.pdf</a>"
  created: '2005-08-16 22:17:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Now your cookin' with gas!\r\n\r\nTry the suggestions above & see if you
    like 'em. But I think you have a solid & valid solution here. The real question
    is - are you happy with it? \r\n\r\nGive yourself some time to answer that."
  created: '2005-08-17 05:23:04'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "I'm liking it. I've plopped it onto a blank web page mock-up at a small size,
    and it looks really nice there. :)\r\n\r\nI'll try out the split color idea on
    this version too. I'll probably play around with a few different colors too, but
    I actually like the current color. Now I'm wondering which part of the forum I
    go to for the \"what font goes good with this for business cards\" question.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    thanks everyone so far! It may not be the best logo in the world, but I really
    like it and it's much better than I could have done without the help."
  created: '2005-08-17 17:11:45'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "Trying to put together a business card with this logo. I know the kerning
    on the info isn't there yet, but I was hoping to get some comments on the type
    because I used a different weight but edited some of the characters to match the
    logo.\r\n\r\nAlso, any opinions on the colors? The info type is 8pt, and I was
    wondering if that would print a clean black with all that orange. I've gone as
    small as 7 points before, but not with so much ink on the card. Both colors are
    PMS so it will be solid ink.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/designybcard.gif\">designybcard.gif</a>"
  created: '2005-08-22 05:01:36'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I'd watch out with the smaller point sizes just because you're playing some
    tricks with the characters and the descenders are so short. I can't <em>really</em>
    judge it on screen, but that's my gut reaction. Also, I want to see the logo a
    bit larger, it feels a tad small in that orange field. However, it might just
    be that I want to see all of that custom type work more clearly.\r\n\r\n; )"
  created: '2005-08-22 14:26:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Ink/printing issues: Depending on who you print it with mt guess is this
    design will probably be okay in print. You are going to get some ink fill into
    the white and you might want to compensate for that in the  white shape, but you
    also might want to do a short run & *see* where it happens & then run a new set
    with the compensation afterwards. Also, it might be fine. This is where the printer's
    skill, the paper & your design all meet. It's complex.\r\n\r\nI agree with Chris
    that you might want to have the mark bigger to show it off & to avoid some of
    the ink fill issues.\r\n\r\nI think the black would be okay.\r\n\r\nDesign issues:\r\n\r\nJust
    my opinion but, I think that having done all the work you have to create a like
    word-mark logo you should avoid watering down it's impact by using similar effects
    in text. The mark willl be stronger if it stays unique.\r\n\r\nI wonder about
    the orange. I just wonder why you picked it. Why this color specifically. What
    PMS is it? Will you use two inks or a 4 color process?\r\n\r\nIt seems like it
    went out of fashion of a certain kind with the dot com bust. Before orange a certain
    shade of green was in. Magenta has been in & is no doubt about to go out again.
    I have to admit I was a big big fan of the orange. But color fashion aside - Why
    orange?\r\n\r\nLastly, I wonder if you need to say what you do on the card. 'Web
    development'. It might feel more confident without that. After all, you would
    be giving the card in athe context of a conversation anyway, and if you want you
    can write a note on the back - a good think to do in my experience.\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you think?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-22 15:24:51'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "Here is a PDF if you want to look at the type larger. I'm not a type guy,
    so I didn't really know what I was doing there. I enlarged the logo a bit in this
    one.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/designybcard.pdf\">designybcard.pdf</a>\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-22 16:22:02'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "I picked orange because I just like orange and it seems to stand out well.
    You might be right about the type, and the web development. Any suggestion on
    a font that would work well? In these two, I used an OCR font.\r\n\r\nHere are
    two different versions with colors I liked. I'm not too hip with the trends, but
    I can see how orange would be trendy, it looks really good! These two colors are
    a little more mellow.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/designybcard-b.pdf\">designybcard-b.pdf</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://designy.com/logo/designybcard-c.pdf\">designybcard-c.pdf</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-22 16:54:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I like how well the card does in all the colors. The grey & brown appeal
    to me too. I don't want to suggest a color just because it's my fav or tell you
    not to use orange. I think that the best thing to do is ask yourself again what
    you want to card to 'say'. What role does the color have in that? I think that
    if you go with a more primary color it is more optomistic & less traditional business
    'serious' in tone. If you plan on selling design as a major componsent of the
    services you render as opposed to back end programming database etc then moving
    in that direction seems right. If you want to emphasize back end seriousness over
    design service then greys, grey blues, blues etc might be the way to go.\r\n\r\nIf
    I was doing this I might try to have my cake & eat it too by using a very pale
    greyblue or grey green blue on super white paper. The logo would pop just fine
    but the effect would be more subtle & serious while retaining some design chic.
    The the contact info would be especially prominent indicating that pragmiatic
    'utilty' was your emphasis. If you used a medium to dark blue color for the text
    you could use a screen of blue at 15% & then at progressive intervals over the
    main color to get variations of into cards too which might be fun... \r\n\r\nThe
    size of the mark also indicates something. If the mark is overly big it says 'look
    at me!' and may feel insecure. It could also feel bold & assertive. Making the
    mark smaller like you did could feel more confident because it doesn't need to
    shout. \r\n\r\nI do like the sizes you have been using but you might try others
    too & try altrenate placements to see how they come off to you.\r\n\r\nLastly,
    I might suggest that for your text consider a lighter weight of the font you modified
    to get the logo & not in condensed. Lucas De Groots monspaced fonts might look
    good too. If you have a testers' copy of Vista you could try Consolas.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-22 19:14:32'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "I'm having a really tough time choosing a more neutral color that I like.
    I am focused more on design than backend, so that might be why? I do love that
    consolas font, so I used it. Anyway, I looked for a happy medium in color. One
    that was fresh but not too trendy or bright.\r\n\r\nOne question I had about percentages
    is how it will affect the sharpness. This layout is one solid pantone color (320).
    The info text is 100%, the background is 50%. I just wonder if that 50% is going
    to make the edges of the white logo soft. I really like the color, it's not too
    loud or too neutral. I also scaled the logo back down a bit. I like it beter small,
    and like the \"secure\" feel.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/designybcard-e.pdf\">designybcard-e.pdf</a>"
  created: '2005-08-22 21:47:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "That teal is outragous! What market are you in? Florida? Germany? Oh, Alabama!
    That is a southern sort of thing. Teal never went away near the ocean did it?
    It seems a little agressive to me but color impression is very emotional & subjective.
    What does everybody else think?\r\n\r\nColor is up to you!\r\n\r\nRE: 50% \r\n\r\n50%
    will make the white fuzzy. I don't recommend it. It's the fuzzy percentage!\r\n\r\nWhat
    I meant was one solid color - it could be anything but maybe something a bit less
    dark than 320 ( i looked at my book ) is what I would recommend. How about 642,
    or 649? That was closer to what I was suggesting - but it's just my suggestion,
    I live in alaska - \r\n\r\nJust to clarify, what I meant by the % was this: when
    you gang the colors up on the card you could do one of them in just the base color
    & one in a percentage of the text color over the base for a 2nd color. 3025 maybe
    or 660. The text would be in the same color. Then the small text would be slightly
    fuzzy though. So maybe it's not a good idea.. It depends. 3 color would let you
    do it without getting fuzzy. 3 color is great but a bit spendy.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-22 22:50:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "For the color, do some research on art or photography that has a color palette
    that you like. I find when I start picking colors arbitrarily (not that you're
    doing that, necessarily), that connecting back with the real world and not a computer
    color picker/pantone book helps me clear up the fog.\r\n\r\nI agree with eben
    that a more 'serious' muted color might work best for designer/business. Look
    at paint collections, such as <a href=\"http://www.sherwin-williams.com/do_it_yourself/paint_colors/paint_color_palette/color_system/\">Martha
    Stewart's</a>. They're usually pretty well tapped into what's in now and avoid
    the crazier colors, because it's for paint."
  created: '2005-08-22 23:08:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Chris, is right - if you are picking from pantone colors via Illustrator,
    or even just on screen - DON'T. \r\n\r\nIt will only make you cry later. \r\n\r\nGet
    a pantone book in your hands even if you have to borrow one. Look at what these
    colors are really going to be. Rarely is there much in common between the screen
    & the ink. It's scary! \r\n\r\nIf you know all this already then - never mind."
  created: '2005-08-23 01:21:44'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: "I have a pantone color book. I apparently just have a bad taste in color.
    :)\r\n\r\nI just can't help it. I like an eye-catching color.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/designybcard-f.pdf\">designybcard-f.pdf</a>"
  created: '2005-08-23 19:01:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "No no, I didn't mean bad. Just brave! You have a pantone book. So you have
    seen what it means. If it fits you & you like it you should do it! The only other
    consideration is your market and if you are confident you can bring your choice
    off well with them. And again, if you are, go teal! What I said scary i didn't
    mean the teal just the way the color doesn't match from computer screen to print.\r\n\r\nThis
    new one is eye catching & conservative in one go. \r\n\r\nLooking back over the
    cards which one would you be proudest to hand over to a potential client? If it's
    the orange think about going that route.\r\n\r\nYou know with consolas having
    such thick strokes I bet you could reverse the text ( make it white too ) and
    have a striking one color design. Or you could have just a thin strip at the bottom
    in white for the text... that might be cool.\r\n\r\nI bet you could make that
    info text smaller and it would read just fine. What about an address?  I think
    an address would look more serious. \r\n\r\nOne other thing - will the web site
    for designy relate to the card color wise or are they going to use different color
    schemes? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-23 21:12:50'
- author:
    name: jeffrey
  body: ">This new one is eye catching & conservative in one go.\r\n\r\nThat's what
    I was hoping. Not middle of the road, but a little of both. :)\r\n\r\nI thought
    about the reversing of the small text, but was worried about that. Although I
    wouldn't mind cutting the cost a little.\r\n\r\nI will probably put my address.
    I had been debating it. One question I have is about puncuation. I'll have the
    address on one line, is there a proper character to seperate the street address
    from the city, state  zip? Below is how I had played around with the address.\r\n\r\nAbout
    the actual site, with the white on red, I will either do it like that or reversed,
    red logo on white. Probably red on white, but I like the card better red than
    white.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://designy.com/logo/designybcard-g.pdf\">designybcard-g.pdf</a>"
  created: '2005-08-23 23:48:33'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I really like this all red card. It is really simple but strong. I like this
    deep red too. What pantone is it? \r\n\r\nTotally trustable too. \r\n\r\nPossible
    quibbles: I wonder if the 'designy' shouldn't be move a little higher - to me
    it fights with the text below a little. I would also still like to see the bottom
    text a bit smaller. With this design you could have both kinds of cards & just
    one color & a small bill to pay at the printers too.\r\n\r\nI like what you did
    with the address. I bet you could use a comma & it would work too.\r\n\r\nThe
    other thing is you *could* put the contact info on the back & keep your centered
    designy on the front of the card. "
  created: '2005-08-24 00:35:17'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Red, the typographer's friend. Second only to black and white...\r\n\r\nYou're
    going in a better direction now. Seems like you're more comfortable with your
    color choice, too."
  created: '2005-08-24 01:52:38'
date: '2005-08-09 22:05:08'
files:
- filename: logo1.gif
  uri: public://old-images/logo1.gif
node_type: forum
title: web design logo

---
