---
author:
  name: Norbert Florendo
  picture: 110725
body: "Recently, Andi Emery started a topic asking if teaching <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/14469\">traditional
  copyfitting</a> methods to graphic designers had value anymore. This is a question
  of particual interest to educators who want to improve typographic awareness in
  students.\r\n\r\nGiven the fact that typography is a minor sub-set in most general
  graphic design programs, it sparked an interest in exploring types of exercises
  that might stimulate creative and cognitive abilities useful to budding typographers
  and type designers. \r\n\r\nThe topic of type education already exists under the
  heading of <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/694\"><strong>Typographic Edumacators</strong></a>
  within the <em>Special Interest Groups</em> area of Typophile. This topic area is
  sadly malnurished having only two replies to an important topic started by Nathan
  Matteson over two years ago! All of the real dialogs related to education are actually
  peppered throughout the entire Typophile forum.\r\n\r\n'Nuf said.\r\n\r\n<strong>If
  Typography was a Video Game</strong>\r\nThis is a thought that came to my mind after
  participating in Andi's topic. No, I'm not advocating a game blasting Comic Sans
  with laser guns, or a Sim game trying to pickup type hotties at a party. I'm not
  even suggesting an \"educational\" game a la Sesame Street or Nick Jr. (though they're
  wonderfully useful).\r\n\r\nI'm thinking more in the line of simple, engaging and
  hopefully stimulating exercises that might trigger higher cognitive and creative
  activities in the mind of students. Obviously this doesn't need to take the form
  of a video game, but the only reason it came to mind is that all designers are now
  trained in front of a screen.\r\n\r\nHere goes my first shot:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://enchantedmind.com/puzzles/tangram/tangram.html\"
  target=\"new\"><strong>Tangram</strong></a>\r\nIs this ancient Chinese game (or
  variant) useful in developing a heightened sense of notan?\r\nCan it help designers
  to create a plethora of recognizable shapes using only a fixed set of elements?\r\n\r\nDescription
  (From Answers.com)\r\nTangram (Hanyu Pinyin: Cantonese: ch'i ch'ae pan; literally
  Seven-Board of Cunning) is an ancient Chinese puzzle.\r\nIt consists of 7 pieces,
  called Tans, which fit together to form a square:\r\n5 triangles of various sizes,
  \r\n1 square \r\n1 parallelogram \r\nThe objective is to form a given shape with
  seven pieces. \r\nThe shape has to contain all the pieces, which must not overlap.\r\n\r\n---------------------------------------------------------------\r\n\r\nI
  can already see that exploring helpful tools and methods of developing typographic
  sensibilities will be a slow and laborous mission, as it has taken me a considerable
  amount of time just to get this post up. Hopefully a few of us can collectively
  hatch up some worthwhile exercises. I've got a few more simple activities to share,
  but it takes time to really think them through.\r\n\r\nLook for the \"Typography
  Edumacators\" topic area to come alive again.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "this was one of my favorite things i got from typecon:\r\nhttp://www.papress.com/thinkingwithtype/resources/crimes_quotes.htm"
  created: '2005-08-10 18:10:21'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Excellent suggestion, Norbert. The real strength of tangrams, I believe,
    is in its making people aware of <strong>possibilities</strong>. I have great
    admiration for the more skilled practitioners of the art, who seem able to coax
    an immense range of images out of what is really a rather limited tool set.\r\n\r\nAnother
    exercise which might prove helpful in developing typesense would be a game which
    has rules, but they are not spelled out at the beginning of the game: the purpose
    of the game is, in fact, to discover the rules. Ideally, these rules could be
    expressed graphically. Just a thought...\r\n\r\n==============\r\n\r\nYes, I'm
    old. So what?"
  created: '2005-08-10 18:31:54'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Norbert, the tangram exercise is an interesting starting point. What would
    be the exact objective/learning outcome, as it relates to typography? I mean,
    are we simply trying to get students to recognize forms and how they fit together
    or are we trying to have students recognize form and counterform? Is this more
    of a spatial exercise or can we tie it in more closely to type?\r\n\r\n(Thanks
    for starting this up!!)\r\n\r\nAndrea"
  created: '2005-08-10 18:33:56'
- author:
    name: drs18
    picture: 109660
  body: "Regarding the limited use of \u201CTypography Edumacators\u201D - I'm a fan
    of \"cute\" when it's appropriate; but I would guess that a title like \"Typography
    Edumacators\" is a bit too cute. If this blog is a tool of industry professionals,
    which I think it is, why not assume an initial, respectful tone and call it \"Educators\"?
    \r\nHow serious is your initial take of text set in Comic Sans? Possibly, Popeye
    has left the building..."
  created: '2005-08-10 18:35:52'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'Paul, I thought Ellen''s game was really clever too - something that might
    actually appeal to young people. It would be great if we could apply that same
    idea to a lot of other type setting rules, wouldn''t it? '
  created: '2005-08-10 18:40:10'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em> I\u2019m a fan of \u201Ccute\u201D when it\u2019s appropriate; but I
    would guess that a title like \u201CTypography Edumacators\u201D is a bit too
    cute</em>\r\n\r\nGeez, lighten up, David. It's the people who take <em>themselves</em>
    too seriously who are the problem (like the guy who inspired the \"Edumacator\"
    term)."
  created: '2005-08-10 18:41:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "You're on to something here Norbert.\r\nBut shoot-em-up games are bit anti-social,
    innit.\r\n(Oh, yeah, sorry, gotta lighten up and not be so politically correct,
    remind meself that violence and war is cool these days, hey, love that irony and
    kick ET's butt heh heh heh.)\r\nThe game could reward players for putting the
    right punctuation in the right context, with a special bonus for getting the abbreviation
    'postrophe the right way round.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 18:49:06'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "How about something along the lines of Phil Baines' deconstructed font that
    he designed for Fuse magazine. You know the one entitled \"Can you...?\" Essentially
    it was all about how much you can take away from a letterform and still recognize
    the letter. \r\n\r\n(The creative juices are flowing now!)"
  created: '2005-08-10 18:56:23'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>The game could reward players for putting the right punctuation in the
    right context, with a special bonus for getting the abbreviation \u2018postrophe
    the right way round.</em>\r\n\r\nHey, I know people who think SpellCheck is a
    video game..."
  created: '2005-08-10 18:57:08'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: 'Nick, did you ever see that post that I put up with all the typos in it?
    It was a misspelled ode to the spellchecker? (Since you seem to be on this bend
    today!) : )'
  created: '2005-08-10 19:01:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Edutainment is always a good idea, at any age.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 19:03:36'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: That would be Edumatainment, I think.
  created: '2005-08-10 19:07:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '<a href="http://typography.art.udel.edu/">Here</a> is a kerning video game
    from University of Delaware. Very nice. This I saw in the typophile news feed
    yesterday, via Veer. '
  created: '2005-08-10 19:13:56'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Wow! That's great William! Thanks.
  created: '2005-08-10 19:15:25'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Paul,\r\nthat link to Ellen Lupton's game is great.\r\n\r\nNick,\r\nkeep
    the ideas flowing. Also explore those activities which are of particular value
    to graphic designers in training their \"typographic eye.\"\r\n\r\nAndi,\r\nthanks
    for getting the ol' juices flowing. The tangram has no definitive educational
    outcome, and it may be only one of several obtional exercises for students. By
    suggesting the Tangram I am exploring simple ways of stimulating higher levels
    of pattern recognition and creating recognizable shapes with minimal visual clues.
    \r\n\r\nWhat if I asked a student to construct each character of the alphabet
    using only a hairpin, 2\" piece of string and 2 M&Ms. I'm not joking... \r\n\r\nDavid,\r\nI
    had the same feelings exactly about \"Edumacators,\" but now I think it might
    be OK. We'll just have to see if we can keep interest growing or if we go down
    in flames like the previous attempt.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-10 19:18:55'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Also explore those activities which are of particular value to graphic
    designers in training their \u201Ctypographic eye.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nFor a revivalist,
    discovering the \"rules\" is the key ingredient in creating a character set consistent
    with the artifacts at hand. For those who design their own typefaces \"from scratch,\"
    perhaps a game in which the player devised the rules (which might have unintended
    consequences down the line) might be more appropriate."
  created: '2005-08-10 19:28:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Wow!\r\n\r\nThat was my reaction too. It is really both fun and educational,
    which is actually a rare thing. The 'shoot the straight quote' stuff is fun but
    doesn't have a lot of educational content, I think. \r\n\r\nOne could do a similar
    thing by taking, say a Baskerville n and asking the student to make an m and u
    in the same style, then compare it to a few pro versions of Baskerville. Then
    give them the ho and ask to design the bd. This would have to be in Illustrator
    or Fontlab, though. If you did the same thing for four or five diverse classics,
    it would be incredibly educational, I think. "
  created: '2005-08-10 20:10:41'
- author:
    name: parker
    picture: 109663
  body: "...just don't play a lot:\r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/technology/4137782.stm"
  created: '2005-08-10 21:45:04'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "> Look for the \u201CTypography Edumacators\u201D topic area to come alive
    again.\r\n\r\nI am all for this, esp. as I am currently wrestling with content
    for the upcoming semester right now..."
  created: '2005-08-11 14:32:34'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Nicole, who are you teaching and what are you teaching - send me a note (andrea@archipath.com)
    and we can compare notes!\r\n\r\nAndrea"
  created: '2005-08-11 16:40:31'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: William - I really like that idea a lot. I think if the students had a bit
    of background first (of course), maybe use Tracy's Letters of Credit as a primer,
    and then attempted to build the other letters - and compare them to existing characters,
    they would really benefit from the hands-on learning. Great idea.
  created: '2005-08-11 16:43:59'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "William,\r\n\r\nThe \"building a character\" exercise would be a much better
    approach than the old obligatory \"comping headlines\" that many primers have.
    My students (and I) found no value other than becoming familiar with the character
    forms.\r\n\r\nDeveloping additional characters from existing ones is much more
    engaging, challenging and in the long run can add to the student's understanding
    of letterform structure.\r\n\r\nAndi,\r\nwe (plus others interested memebers)
    should start compiling key suggestions. (More than likely offline). So far the
    ideas are sprinkled in several topics going on lately. I would be terrible to
    see a single good contribution get lost.\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-08-11 17:11:10'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "Hmmm. I guess I should apologize to those whom my 'Edumacators' offended.
    'Twas meant to be light-hearted and such, but those things are wont to back-fire
    on occassion. Feel free to change the name of the Special Interest Group and I
    promise I won't be offended.\r\n\r\nIn any case, it's heartening that the whole
    dialogue among teacher-types is thriving on Typophile these days. More so that
    the days of yore anyway. I haven't been as active of a participant as I used to
    be -- teaching's been taking up more and more of my time -- but I hope to make
    some more time to participate in this sort of discussion. \r\n\r\nAlthough, quite
    frankly, I'm conflicted as to the idea of turning typography too much into a 'game'.
    Students today seem completely different than when I was in college (a mere 10
    years ago), but I buck at the thought of 'coddling' them. I'm sure it's not coddling,
    it's just change, but so much of what I hear about typography classes (not on
    this board, mind you) sounds like either (1) teachers obsfucate things to make
    their practice seem overly esoteric/important, or (2) the classroom becomes a
    playpen that panders to students' lack of attention.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, in
    the meantime I have to prepare for class :-P so ta-ta-for-now. "
  created: '2005-08-11 21:29:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "If typography <em>were</em> a video game.\r\n\r\nThis message brought to
    you by the World Health Organisation Taskforce Against Subjunctivitis (WHOTAS)."
  created: '2005-08-11 21:39:16'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Norbert, I'm taking notes and getting lots of ideas to add to my own. Unfortunately,
    I'll be in the throws of school in a weeks' time but I can check in here periodically
    and maybe add something to the Edumacator's section when it is up.\r\n\r\nWould
    it be worthwhile to list the tried and true exercises that type teachers currently
    use/try? Any projects or exercises that anyone has tried that they have benefitted
    from?"
  created: '2005-08-11 21:44:32'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "><em> If typography \"were\" a video game.</em>\r\n\r\nJohn, I kept repeating
    \"were\" in my mind and did not have a full understanding of why. Thanks.\r\n\r\nmatteson,\r\nmy
    take on exploring this area is slightly different than many of the design curriculums
    I am aware of. My personal intent is to find methods, tools, or exercises that
    MIGHT aid students of general graphic design programs to step through the portal
    of typographic awareness.\r\n\r\nIn other words, my own personal interest is to
    help \"wake up\" and heighten those mysterious powers of super type awareness
    which lay dormant in only a handful of students. \r\n\r\nI have asked myself many
    times, why can some people look at a full page of straight text and see the continuity
    or irregularities of type color, the <em>dazzle</em> or <em>spikeyness</em>, the
    need for an addition point of line spacing, or understand why the column should
    be extended by 4 picas, and finally decide that one vendor's version of Cheltenham
    should be replaced by a slightly different version to feel right.\r\n\r\nThese
    are abilities I have seen in very few graphic designers. If playing Tangram or
    Tetris during lunch helps to build these awarenesses, then I'm all for them.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    I don't want to build \"games.\" I want to find out if there is any sort of activity,
    on screen or off, which can help raise that awareness. It seems a dumb analogy,
    but I keep remembering the scenes in <em>Karate Kid</em> where the student develops
    exceptional blocking abilities by waxing cars using only two specific movements
    of <em>Wax on</em> and <em>Wax off</em>.\r\n\r\nI immensely respect the expertise
    and efforts of the many qualified and fully trained educators who build knowledge
    and train their students in design and typography.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-12 01:14:11'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "I didn't mean to poo-poo on what you're doing at all Norbert. I actually
    think it's a great idea. I dig the idea of building tangrams because they might
    help students develop the visual/spatial acuity needed for typography, through
    a non-typographic method. Because I certainly know that college freshman & sophomore
    can only look at type for <em>so long</em> before they're gone.\r\n\r\nI think
    I'm just wary of the term 'game'. That's all. For instance, like William, I'm
    not a huge fan of the 'shoot the fake quotes' game. As much as I hate improper
    quotation marks ;-)"
  created: '2005-08-12 01:26:12'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Yes, I agree, and do not want games to be the focus or issue.\r\n\r\nTo be
    honest, the (very) few people I've helped to \"see\" was done through continual
    and diligent one-on-one work. Maybe I watch too many Kung Fu movies and have become
    enamored with the myth of the \"Master.\" Anyway, what's wrong with having your
    students wash and wax your car?\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-12 01:40:31'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "> the (very) few people I\u2019ve helped to \u201Csee\u201D was done through
    continual and diligent one-on-one work. \r\n\r\nI think this is likely the case
    across the board. It's how I feel about my past students. But I think the challenge
    (which is partially what we're addressing I think?) is how to impart a knowledge
    or love or understanding of typography to the rest of the kids in the classroom
    who don't engage themselves in that long-term one-and-one work. \r\n\r\nThat's
    obvious innit. It's been a long day at school. I think I need to sleep.\r\n\r\nBut
    there's nothing at all wrong with kids washing your car. One of mine just gave
    me a bottle of Ardbeg. Sweet!"
  created: '2005-08-12 01:51:16'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Ardbeg?! Now, only a true single malt lover would even know what that was
    - there's one great student!
  created: '2005-08-12 17:33:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'Hmm. great Thread N: http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/AlphaGeometrique, get
    you to Clotilde Olyff, all of the fonts she made with us are based on board games
    she made for her students...Also, the development of digital tools for font design,
    (ones that worked), cured me of all for video games...it is the best game. :-@'
  created: '2005-08-12 17:49:58'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Thanks for the great link, David.\r\nIn fact, Typophile has cured me of video
    games. I haven't turned on the X-box in two months!\r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but my Halo is fading!"
  created: '2005-08-12 17:56:31'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: "Wow, that Clotilde Olyff is a real find! I'm searching for her book...\r\nhttp://www.dorpdal.com/lettered/Lettered2.html"
  created: '2005-08-14 21:25:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: If this is the book I'm thinking of, she also shows her extensive collection
    of beach stone type, which this special person has collected over the years from
    beaches all over the world, but primarily in Belgium, where the slate  is soft,
    beaches rough and no one else seems to collect. She gave me two quote stones that
    proudly sit in my solid type collection waiting for the proper marketing moment.
    And yes, she'll get a royalty...
  created: '2005-08-15 15:11:16'
date: '2005-08-10 17:25:44'
title: If Typography was a Video Game

---
