---
author:
  name: caboume
  picture: 110905
body: "There are times when I need to sketch out\r\na name, acroynm, or phrase in
  a particular\r\ntypeface during the conceptual stage.\r\n\r\nUsually, I just write
  out the name with\r\na thick marker.  However, this technique best\r\nconveys form,
  direction, etc..but NOT the\r\nsubtleties of [[weight]], [[contrast]] -- especially\r\nwith
  [[serif]] faces.\r\n\r\nMy attempts to \"draw\" out the typefaces more\r\nclearly
  seem rather dissappointing.\r\n\r\nFor those who may know, are there any helpful\r\nmethodologies
  or advice to be given as to how to\r\nsketch out letters more clearly?\r\n\r\nNote,
  I am a graphic designer not an illustrator,\r\nnor have I designed type before,
  thus my drawing\r\nskills lack savvy.\r\n\r\np.s. the technique known as \"[[building-up]]\"
  the letter,\r\nis one that has merit, but takes too much time with the\r\nfilling
  in...I need something more efficient yet\r\nvisually clear."
comments:
- author:
    name: hello_caleb
    picture: 110315
  body: "yes i am curious as well.\r\n\r\ncaboume - can you explain \"building up\"?"
  created: '2005-08-11 18:36:30'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Graphic designers who trained before Macs and PostScript had to \"comp\"
    headlines so clients could review the concept before going further with production.\r\n\r\nHow?
    Either you were good freehand, or would trace from type specimen books or even
    trace designs from Letraset sheets.\r\nLater, when scaling became available on
    Xerox machines, you could cut and paste a \"comped\" headline.\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-08-11 18:46:40'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "What do I do today?\r\n\r\nI find a pdf specimen of the typeface, do screen
    shots, then cut & paste in Photoshop.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: hello_caleb
      picture: 110315
    body: "<cite>What do I do today?\r\nI find a pdf specimen of the typeface, do
      screen shots, then cut & paste in Photoshop.</cite>\r\n\r\nyou do this because
      you may not have the typeface on hand while comping?"
    created: '2005-08-12 15:32:11'
  created: '2005-08-11 18:48:42'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Use a reasonably soft pencil -- 2B to 4B -- well sharpened, and be prepared
    to do a lot of erasing.\r\n\r\n------------------\r\n\r\nYes, I'm old, but so's
    your old man...unless he's dead, like my old man."
  created: '2005-08-11 18:55:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I do a lot less sketching that many people here, but I've found that the
    \"ghost\" left by an erased not-TOO-soft lead serves as a great guide. Of course
    the paper plays a huge role there too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 18:59:46'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: Using pencil and eraser allows the <strong>eraser</strong> to become a drawing
    tool as well...
  created: '2005-08-11 19:05:14'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "hello_caleb,\r\n\r\n\"Building up\" refers to a technique letterers would\r\nuse
    in which they first drew a stick outline of the shape,\r\nthen proceeded to color
    or \"build up\" the letter until\r\nthe form matured.\r\n\r\nI found this link
    in the Wiki section, \"how to..\"\r\n\r\nhttp://just.letterror.com/ltrwiki/SketchingType\r\n\r\nIt
    seems pretty informative, though I wonder if there\r\nare more \"secrets\" designers
    use.\r\n\r\nNorbert,\r\nthanks for sharing your suggestion.\r\n\r\n...\r\nI could
    just take the easy way out and work straight on\r\nthe computer, but I would like
    to utilize some of the\r\ngreat skills graphic designers used to have before everything\r\nbecame
    digital.\r\n\r\nIf one could sketch and design well, what a combo huh?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 19:11:54'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: oops, thanks to Hrant and Oldnick for your suggestions as well!
  created: '2005-08-11 19:13:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Letterror stuff (used by John Hudson as well) is very good for display
    work, but I wouldn't be myself if I didn't caution against its use in the making
    of text fonts...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 19:17:17'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "If you are still bent on drawing the concept... is it for presentation to
    a client or for your own eyes to refine the idea?\r\n\r\nIf for some reason you
    really need to draw this, then starts with a big pad of tracing paper and keep
    refining shapes and spacing through successive tracings.\r\n\r\nOnce you are ready
    to do a clean and precise \"comp\" get to a better grade paper and find a lightbox
    (they are still used for reviewing transparencies).\r\n\r\nBut I still don't understand
    why you need to actually draw a refined \"comp.\"\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-08-11 19:18:08'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I must admit that the last logo I designed was first sketched, then refined,
    then blown way up and re-sketched on clear acetate using indelible black marker...
    and finally scanned to final.\r\n\r\nFor some reason, that logo needed to be stroked
    with tender love and care.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 19:24:08'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "Norbert,\r\n\r\nMy motivations:\r\n\r\n1.) As designers, we spend so much
    time on the\r\ncomputer, I've sort of rebelled against it.  Instead of\r\nrelying
    on it for sketch work too, I'd like to be able\r\nto sketch well so it can be
    refined and further tweaked\r\nbefore jumping to the computer so quickly. \r\n\r\n2.)
    Additionally, I would like to show the client my\r\nsketches, in my attempts to
    teach that design isn't what\r\nthe computer does, it's all me!"
  created: '2005-08-11 19:24:59'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Frank,\r\n\r\nyou're right. I need to get away from the screen once in a
    while as well.\r\n\r\nThe other truth of the matter is that one (depending on
    the individual) thinks, creates and processes diffently based on the tools they
    use.\r\n\r\nWhen I sketch, I use visual \"shorthand\" for myself... just enough
    imagery for me to make decisions or experiment more. I can also process several
    concepts simultaneously on the same sheet of paper.\r\n\r\nOn the computer screen,
    I tend to want to see ideas more \"finished\" which means I generally go with
    the first few series of designs. On paper I throw a lot more in the trash (which
    also means I process many more ideas in the long run).\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-11 19:34:11'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hand skills are essential to any kind of design work. Graphic designers working
    without them are impoverished. \r\n\r\nFrank, any kind of drawing practice or
    training will improve your sketches: Life drawing classes, while they don't focus
    on type or grids, help anyone to SEE in several different ways, and also to develop
    abilities in your hand to convey ideas. \"Hand-eye coordination\" they used to
    call it. You can discover much about shape, line quality, balance, composition,
    contrast, materials and techniques from life drawing. All of this is acutely relevant
    to graphic design. I recommend it to anyone who spends too much time on the computer.
    You can do it at home if you have a lazy partner, roommate, dog or child, though
    instruction helps a lot.\r\n\r\nHand skills work well in combination with digital
    tools. The tools alone won't get you as far. "
  created: '2005-08-11 19:57:53'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Unless you work for a larger studio or agency that has a large budget for
    purchasing fonts, most designers need to justify their purchases.\r\n\r\nIf you
    are presenting two, three or more concepts to a client, each using a different
    typeface, either you draw (by hand or Illustrator) the design or purchase the
    fonts. It can get very expensive buying fonts for no reason other than just having
    them.\r\n\r\nAgain, concepts need not be finished work to be approved. Most clients
    will give you feedback without seeing a finished printed piece.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm not that rich!"
  created: '2005-08-12 16:01:53'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: As a student I've been doing a lot of sketching myself. I find that just sitting
    down  and blocking out time to open up Font Book and choose a few letters then
    draw those letters to the best of my ability for a few different faces. Repeat
    this exercise as often as possible and soon enough you'll be able to draw many
    faces without even looking at them. These drawings have also been a huge help
    in my knowledge of the 'flow' of letter forms and the different weights too! Good
    luck!
  created: '2005-08-12 18:54:49'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I agree with many points here, but specifically Carl's advice. I actually
    came from a fine arts background before I was a designer so I had the benefit
    of art school training. The illustrator side of me always draws everything I do
    FIRST on paper, before I ever touch the computer. Doing this first really helps
    me see the big picture before I start doing the fine details. I think many designers
    use the computer \"only\" which I think can really limit creativity. This is not
    to say that everyone is the same, there are many desginers who can go straight
    to the computer...but as a recent student myself, I've seen quite a bit of the
    former. \r\n\r\nDavid's onto something too, while I don't think its completely
    necessary to follow the drawing exercises-studying the typefaces is certainly
    a good idea. Designing with Type by James Craig or Elements of Typographic Style
    by Bringhurst might be good places to start learning. I also can't stress life/figure
    drawing classes enough. This will also teach you a lot about form. "
  created: '2005-08-13 04:33:09'
- author:
    name: skirklan
    picture: 110773
  body: "We are not old--we are BOOMERS.  Our first day in art school lettering involved
    \"sidling\" a lower case \"f\" in Franklin Gothic from our type books through
    parchment paper with a soft pencil.  Of course, few passed the test because we
    were all lunkheads incapable of seeing the delicate ambiance of the font. This
    seems like necessary work to learn type, but it seems unnecessary to prepare a
    comp with the availability of computers.  Clients understand finished comps much
    better than sketching.  This reminds me of an illustrator I once met who refused
    to give up marker comps; destined to be left behind because he only used his computer
    for billing.\r\n\r\nSDK\r\nSusan Kirkland\r\nSDKirkland Master Designer\r\nAuthor
    of \r\nStart & Run a Creative Services Business ISBN 155180607X\r\nView my work
    and excerpts from the book (click the book icon) at <www.sdkirkland.com>\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-13 06:28:52'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: I'm surprised anyone has learned design without having to draw. Frankly, I
    would have loved to go to one of these schools where they teach current methods
    at all, let alone to the exclusion of ancient methods. My teachers made us do
    a pile of thumbnails, a rough half-size marker comp, a tight half-size marker
    comp, a tight full-size marker comp that looks exactly the same as the tight half-size
    marker comp because all the demanded changes have been made already, and then
    for the final comp we had to spec type on film negative to make rub-on transfers
    with an accursed Omnicrom toaster thing. I once chose Kabel Extra Bold for a headline
    solely because I knew I was expected to cut 24pt letters out of colored paper
    with a blade. This was in the 1990s, when all design jobs were already advertised
    entirely in terms of what software you knew. You can see why I never became a
    fixture of the industry.
  created: '2005-08-13 22:36:06'
- author:
    name: strata
  body: "ah the heady daze of magic markers and layout pads are coming back to me!
    these days I find the a font which is something close to what I'm thinking of,
    then type the word/phrase I require, then do a hardcopy, then get my old layout
    pad or tracing paper out, trace over the top then scan it back in to Photoshop.
    If you have a light table you can use courser grained paper to trace with to get
    a better effect.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-13 23:00:55'
- author:
    name: mb
  body: "in one of our first classes on my degree we were told to \"stop drawing our
    way out of things\" and instead to work out what needed to be done and then simply
    lay it out on the computer. now i have real trouble doing this - what i see in
    my head looks nothing like what ends up on the screen. i <em>have</em> to sketch
    things in order to visualise them properly and to see any problems that might
    come up. \r\n\r\nin my end of year tutorial, when i mentioned my problems translating
    designs a different tutor suggested scanning my sketches onto the computer and
    doing the layouts directly over the top. this works much better for me.\r\n\r\nthe
    most useful things so far have been the workshops we have had - one was comping
    up posters for an exhibition, with emphasis on 'who'. others had 'where', 'when'
    etc. this was done purely from copy spec sheets blown up/reversed out/etc on the
    photocopiers and sellotaped onto a2 paper. this was much more useful, for me at
    least, than sitting down on a computer and moving boxes around with the mouse.\r\nand
    then in the last week of term we had a letterpress workshop. again, i learnt more
    about kerning and leading from <em>physically working</em> with type in that one
    week than i had over the course of the last three terms. \r\n\r\nto me, drawing
    is an essential part of design. "
  created: '2005-08-15 12:51:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hmmm. I think there are several kinds of drawing going on here. \r\n\r\n\u201CBuilding
    up\u201D refers to a technique letterers would\r\nuse in which they first drew
    a stick outline of the shape,\r\nthen proceeded to color or \u201Cbuild up\u201D
    the letter until\r\nthe form matured.\"\r\n\r\nThis is from the old days and no
    one does it much anymore because the accuracy of the result is so distant from
    the type that really happens, that it's useless. I tell young designers and old
    ones too, that type sketche, even the really  nice ones on napkins, are about
    the same worth: draw it for real if you're gonna take that much time, or buy the
    damn typeface for a fraction of the cost of drawing even  one  headline...\r\n\r\nAnother
    letterdrawing is all and only about the contour, so there is no \"build up.\"
    The letterdrawer concentrates all of her efforts on the contour by shifting back
    and forth on the two sides of the paper, using a light table to compare the results,
    erasing and shaving until the form is PerFect, all on one side or the other, and
    then transferring the contour to its final place and filling in a separate operation.
    \r\n\r\nAlso, watch your wrist! I learned as a child, to draw tiny little segments
    of lines in a nervous motion, rotating the paper for the optimal angle and generally
    using the hand as a stationary compass attached to the wrist. Then, I went to
    Aaahhrt School, and they unlearned me from this, teaching me that the wrist should
    be free! and the paper should be bound. This is fine for nak'd body drawing, but
    since very few people are shaped like letters...Well, then I went Linotype, and
    learned that my child'ood method was what was required, except, with a light table
    you can use both sides of the paper. \r\n\r\nEven later, Ed B. Nuts taught me
    that due to the need to prove to skeptical people that you do in fact have a job,
    you'd better also learn to make credible letters with a fork, on a napkin or table
    cloth. This too has served me well, and works especially nicely with a smaller,
    3-tined salad fork, a padded table with a nice white cloth."
  created: '2005-08-15 13:13:22'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "Thanks for the great suggestions from all!\r\n\r\nAt this point I would be
    very interested in\r\nseeing the actual sketches done using the prescribed\r\ntechniques.\r\n\r\nIf
    anybody has a scanned version of their sketches\r\nand would like to post them
    here in this forum,\r\n\r\nthat would be great!"
  created: '2005-08-15 14:55:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Here's some Patria napkin action, done over three days, in three different
    cities, immediately after ATypI-Leipzig in 2000:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/nour&patria/dev/harrier_leipzig.gif\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/nour&patria/dev/harrier_frankfurt.gif\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/nour&patria/dev/harrier_amsterdam.gif\r\n\r\nThe
    first was done in a bar called Letterman. The second, my favorite, was done in
    a sushi bar over some spider roll and sake. The third was done at a cool tea/coffee
    joint (yeah, they had joints too) called Goa (not Schiphol as I previously remembered),
    and it was when things clicked. On the other hand, Patria is based on Nour (its
    Armenian counterpart), and that was done as finished drawings (requiring structural
    change upon \"compilation\" in only one character) with almost no sketching, in
    Yerevan:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/nour&patria/dev/nour_yerevan.gif\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-15 17:52:53'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Hrant, I am very impressed by your napkins as you didn't even spill wasabe
    or sake on them.\r\n\r\nMr. Lin,\r\nI am more graphic designer and typographer
    than type designer (I have never designed a face, only edited them). For me, \"sketching\"
    and \"drawing\" are two completely different experiences, or areas of engaged
    processing.\r\n\r\n<em>Sketching</em> is more like brainstorming by eye & hand.\r\nIn
    some instances I have a concept in my mind's eye that I need to materialize on
    paper or screen in order to expand, refine or reject.\r\nIn other instances, my
    hand is governed by no preconception and is allowed to freely explore, wander,
    and conjur hoping that it triggers visual clues to explore, teasing ideas out
    of the subconcious.\r\n\r\n<em>Drawing</em>, by my own discipline, is setting
    aside the \"mind\" and letting the EYE guide what my hand should follow. Looking,
    looking, drawing, erasing, looking and drawing... in this way my mind develops
    an awareness of shape, form, and space by witnessing this process. One of my drawing
    teachers always told us to draw the <em>other side</em> of the figure or apple,
    the part unseen. This was hard to fathom at first (and even harder to draw once
    you understood). But eventually you begin to <em>see</em> not what your mind tells
    you, but subtleties that only your eyes can pick up.\r\n\r\nSo, for me, I can
    <em>draw</em> a typeface by observation, and can <em>sketch</em> an idea for review.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-15 19:05:55'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "Mr. Florendo, please call me Frank. :)\r\n\r\nYes I agree, sketching and
    drawing are two different things.\r\n\r\nI've observed that in this day in age,
    when showing comps\r\nor rough sketches to the art director or client, it's mostly\r\ndone
    on the computer and printed out..\r\n\r\nNow it seems, people don't have the ability\r\nto
    look at a pencil sketch; they all want to see the \"finished\"\r\nidea, even if
    it is just an idea and not the final excution.\r\n\r\nWhat is a designer to do?\r\n\r\nWhen
    I was in school, they advocated sketching but didn't go into\r\nthe methods and
    techniques...Most students showed comps that were\r\ngenerated from the computer.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    computer sketches will displace pencil sketching."
  created: '2005-08-15 19:16:31'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Frank,\r\n\r\nfor our own disciplines we should never give up how we process
    ideas and discover the world around us.\r\n\r\nPart of the current problem of
    not being able to \"see\" anything that is not fully rendered, is plaguing our
    industry as well as culture.\r\n\r\nNot long ago, writers and filmmakers could
    produce works without getting absolutely detailed, leaving areas \"unresolved\"
    and leaving it to the imagination of the public. (For some reason, they nicknamed
    open-ended film endings \"European endings.\")\r\n\r\nNow, audiences go ballistic,
    demanding their money back if they don't SEE a completely wrapped up neat and
    tidy ending. Kinda sad, huh?\r\n\r\nThankfully, creatives themselves do not need
    any more than a few scribbles to develop concepts, even incredibly complex ones.
    Take <a href=\"http://www.nga.gov/exhibitions/20th_design.htm\" target=\"new\">I.M.
    Pei's sketches</a>, for instance.\r\n\r\nMy experience with shortsighted clients
    is to get something approved with as little rendering time as possible. Chances
    are it's only the concept you need to \"sell\" and not the subtleties or refinements
    you can make AFTER the initial \"go-ahead\" from the client.\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but please call me Norbert!\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-15 19:41:22'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'My method is divided into concept then execution. Concept: marker with headline
    and key graphic drawn in marker (black). Executation: show examples of type and
    photos and illustration. They are hiring you to be a professional so I don''t
    go any further until I actually create the layout(s). So its a process, step by
    step and not a one shot deal.'
  created: '2005-08-15 22:32:46'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "All of your comments are very interesting and helpful.\r\n\r\nI found some
    helpful tutorials in the Wiki section which\r\nincludes this scribbling technique
    which is just perfect\r\nfor fast, effective sketching.\r\n\r\n\r\n...\r\nIf I
    may draw upon some of my observations:\r\n\r\nThe idea of a \"finished\" or tight
    pencil sketch is\r\nsomething of a relic from a previous era.  Designers of the\r\npast
    usually had great drawing skills, but the designers of\r\ntoday need only use
    the sketch as a rough conceptual guide\r\nbefore refining the idea for presentation
    on the computer.\r\n\r\nLike it or not, this is the most practical way of doing\r\nthings
    in a world where deadlines become shorter, clients\r\nare less imaginative, and
    where everybody is accustomed\r\nto seeing crisp shapes with gradients and drop
    shadows.\r\n\r\n(Yeah, it sucks. But what can we do?)\r\n\r\nWith that said, this
    is why I started this thread --\r\nbecause I see the need for designers to spend
    more time\r\npracticing the art of sketching."
  created: '2005-08-16 15:01:27'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I like to do hand sketching, when I am doing a logo I like to show the client
    pencil sketches first which gets me more time to develop ideas instead of detailing
    and printing everything.\r\n\r\nNot everyone would accept pencil sketches I have
    to ask first, I have a client who asked me for the first time we met to show him
    pencil sketches first, he turned out to be a very good client to work with.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-08-17 04:56:11'
- author:
    name: Miguel Hernandez
    picture: 110435
  body: "What about print a \"fontlab grid\" on a laser print, use it as a copybook,
    and then scan?\r\nThis way, we can go faster, i am testing this homemade method
    actually..\r\n\r\nmh"
  created: '2005-08-24 14:17:24'
- author:
    name: markatos
    picture: 110243
  body: "I also do a lot of tracing and scanning, digital to analog.  I even sometimes
    print out the digitized rendering, retrace, and scan back in.\r\n\r\nOne thing
    I've recently tried is to build rough skeletons of the letter or mark in AI, then
    print those, trace them until they get their natural letterflow.  This method
    is proving to be quite usefull.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-25 16:17:28'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Just sketch/draw letters. And sketch/draw. And sketch/draw. There's no trick
    or shortcut.  Just practice (also freehand)\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-25 18:04:37'
date: '2005-08-11 18:19:42'
title: Advice to graphic designers for sketching type?

---
