---
author:
  name: Dan Milne
body: "This is The-typeface-potentially-known-as-Omnium. \r\n\r\nIt is a text typeface
  with a rotated humanist axis, designed with a large x-height with the aim of strong
  horizontal emphasis and even colour. A sanserif sibling is also under development.
  It is my first typeface. \r\n\r\nI\u2019d love to hear your impressions, suggestions,
  criticism.\r\n\r\nI became acquainted with Fontlab for the first time last week
  so my spacing leaves a little to be desired. Let me know if you\u2019d like to see
  samples in any other format.\r\n\r\nhttp://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files//Omnium_serif_28_metrics.pdf\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nDan\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I like it. Here are some suggestions:\r\n\r\nI'd put more curve into the
    top of the s.\r\nThe bottom right of the b feels uncomfortable.\r\nThe terminal
    of the beak of the a (top) could be rethought, as could be the bottom of the g's
    descender.\r\nThe r's terminal could be heavier.\r\nThe v's crotch should be darker.\r\n\r\nHope
    that helps!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Dan Milne
    body: "Hi Dan.\r\n\r\nMany thanks for your suggestions. I had a feeling I should
      soften that curve on the b. What do you suggest for the terminals on the a and
      g? An s-style serif terminal perhaps? Or is it more a matter of breaking the
      stroke at a different angle?\r\n\r\nMy PDF file contains the full alphabet and
      ranging numerals. I'm not sure why it didn't work. It can be viewed at:\r\n\r\nhttp://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files//Omnium_serif_28_metrics.pdf\r\n\r\ncheers,\r\nDan"
    created: '2005-08-13 13:25:59'
  created: '2005-08-13 12:50:23'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "first of all, i should ask: what is the purpose of this typeface? any particular
    applications? This would effect what advice i would give in making revisions.
    For my comments i'm assuming it's a standard face for text.\r\n\r\nwow! i didn't
    even read dan's comments till after i looked at the face and his comments are
    the same as what mine would have been. just a couple more things:\r\n\r\n<em>The
    bottom right of the b feels uncomfortable.</em>\r\nsame goes for the top left
    of the bowl of the g (as i'm suspected it's the same piece, only rotated)\r\nthe
    inner counter of the o seems a bit too boxy. maybe smooth out the curves at 1
    and 7 o'clock.\r\nthe bowl on the a could be a bit more angular/contrasty to match
    the other curved elements. and to solve the a's terminal problem, you might just
    make it a bit heavier on the end.\r\nis that m a doubled n? even if not, it seems
    a bit too wide still.\r\ni think that poor little s feels very uncomfortable.
    try to make it less disjointed.\r\nlooking at the pdf:\r\nall the terminals look
    a bit hesitant (they go out with a whimper instead of a bang) i'm talking about
    a,f,g,j & y.\r\nthe w has the same crotch problem as the v, as does the y.\r\nThe
    caps are very nice. Terminal problem on J. The stroke on the Q looks like it's
    not sure it should be there. Are those ink traps on the A, M, N, V, W (and v,
    w, y) if so i think they need to be re-thought so as to give more weight to the
    crotches (as dan stated before). The C seems a bit squonched, but i'm not sure
    exactly to suggest to fix that. The S and the Z seem to be leaning to the left.
    There should be more difference between the bowls on the P and the R.\r\nMy preference
    is for slightly longer descenders, but that could be just my personal preference.\r\nThe
    figures seem a bit small. i think taking the height up between the x-height and
    the cap height they'd look better. If you decided to make the descenders longer
    this would help the numerals, IMO.\r\n\r\nAnd as with all critiques by yours truly,
    a disclaimer: I am no expert, all advice is my own personal opinions and does
    not reflect the views of typophile and is to be taken with a healthy dose of salt.
    use this information at your own risk. i refuse to be liable for consequences
    caused by the adherence to suggestions or the lack thereof."
  created: '2005-08-13 16:06:47'
- author:
    name: oribendor
    picture: 110846
  body: "it looks like a huge success for a first typeface! where did you learn typeface
    design an how did you work on that one? did you first sketch the letters and then
    scan them?\r\n\r\n\r\noribendor"
  created: '2005-08-13 16:18:13'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Do you try to establish broken forms into a common roman typeface? I think
    yes and I like it. So, please don't round up all the forms. To  judge it, we have
    to see it on real text in small point sizes. \r\n\r\nSome typesfaces looking very
    strong if you look very close to it but working well as bodytypes.  \r\n\r\nps.
    I can't download the pdf.\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2005-08-13 18:40:24'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i didn't mean to round <em>everything</em> up, but some curves do need a bit
    of smoothing out, IMO.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Dan Milne
    body: "Hi Paul,\r\n\r\nThankyou very much for taking the time to look at my typeface
      and for your detailed suggestions. They are very helpful. Apologies for my delayed
      reply: it is early Sunday morning here in Melbourne.\r\n\r\nOmnium is intended
      for reasonably extended setting in magazines and books. I think it has probably
      ended up with too much personality for serious continuous setting.\r\n\r\nI
      have been steadily rounding the counters from what started out as a much more
      extreme typeface. I\u2019d like to remove some of that boxy discomfort without
      losing too much of the angularity in the counters which gives the typeface much
      of its personality. As you suggest, only some of the counters are problematic.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll
      give some more presence to the terminals and the crotches and deal with soften
      the more awkward curves. I prized the crotches apart (so to speak) in order
      to achieve even colour -- probably at the expense of the strength in some of
      the intersections. I suppose I can keep the ink traps to some extent. They just
      need to be more subtle.\r\n\r\nYou guessed correctly on the doubled-n m. A trap
      for young players, I guess.\r\n\r\nMy intention with the old style numerals
      is to find a size which works well within text with lowercase but which also
      works with longer strings of numerals in their own right. I find that the height
      of old style numerals often jumps about too much with certain combinations like
      345 688 120 (see http://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files/num_demo.jpg ). \r\n\r\nWhen
      you suggest taking the height of the numerals up, do you suggest increasing
      all numerals or making the ascenders ascend more and the descenders descend
      more? I guess I\u2019ll try some options and see what works. I also intend to
      develop a cap-height lining set.\r\n\r\nHi Oribendor,\r\n\r\nThanks very much
      for your words of encouragement. The type design scene here in Melbourne is
      small but I\u2019ve had plenty of advice from local typographers and type designers
      with more experience than myself. I have spent quite a lot of time looking at
      Dutch typefaces and I think a lot can be learned from sites like this one!\r\n\r\nAs
      you guessed, I sketched the letters first and as Andreas suggested, the curves
      are made up of broken forms which I am trying to reconcile into flowing curves.
      I\u2019ve attached a sample of the kinds of drawings upon which my letterforms
      are based: http://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files/omnium_drawing.jpg\r\n\r\nHi
      Andreas,\r\n\r\nSorry you haven\u2019t been to access the PDF. Hopefully it
      can be viewed at: http://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files/Omnium_serif_28_metrics.pdf\r\n\r\nOnce
      again, thankyou for your contributions.\r\n\r\nI'll make some adjustments to
      the typeface and post an updated version in the next couple of days.\r\n\r\ncheers,\r\nDan\r\n"
    created: '2005-08-14 02:32:48'
  created: '2005-08-13 19:16:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "numerals: yeah, maybe you just need to make your descending characters descend
    all the way. the 3,5,7,9 all seem a bit tiny\r\nand yeah, make the ascenders on
    6 and 8 rise to the cap height."
  created: '2005-08-14 03:26:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, you're using my \"metagram\"! Cool. In case somebody (more like virtually
    everybody) doesn't know, a metagram is a fancy pangram that lets you evaluate
    a font much better:\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=2454\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    onto this quite interesting font...\r\n\r\nFirst of all, the PDF is much more
    convincing than that GIF up top, so I'm glad you've made that available. This
    face has quite enviable poise. And I don't agree that \"it has probably ended
    up with too much personality\" to serve as a text face; as Schwartz's Houston
    Chronicle effort has hopefully proven, the text face envelope still has huge room
    for expansion, although in a direction seldom explored. That said, I think this
    still needs a lot of work to become adequate.\r\n\r\nMy foremost \"macro\" critique
    is that the color is a bit light for the vertical proportions, which seem ideal
    for around 8 point setting. If that's too small a point size in terms of your
    target, I'd increase the ascenders a bit, shooting for 9 point; but I might still
    increase the color slightly. If you like shooting for 8 point, I would pull in
    the descenders a hair.\r\n\r\nMicro stuff:\r\n\"a\": It needs to be happier -
    it's a very important character. I don't think the terminal of the top is the
    problem (it's certainly better than the one in the \"g\") but probably that the
    top of the bowl shouldn't be so horizontal - try tilting it gently.\r\n\"f\":
    Could use a stronger beak.\r\n\"g\": Give its terminal a serif, like in the \"c\".
    Or much better: make a binocular one... with an open bottom. But if you keep it
    mono, give it a nice rising ear.\r\n\"j\": That chirographic terminal seems to
    actually work here.\r\n\"k\": Best glyph so far!\r\n\"p\": Bottom of the bowl
    too heavy.\r\n\"q\": depending on what you do with the \"g\", consider a pointy
    ear.\r\n\"r\": Majorly needs a powerful beak.\r\n\"s\": At first I thought it
    was too \"coiled up\", but now I think it's da bomb.\r\n\"v\", \"w\": Too much
    separation at the diagonal joins.\r\n\"y\": As in the \"j\", the terminal works
    here.\r\n\"B\": Slightly too wide.\r\n\"C\": A bit too narrow.\r\n\"E\": A bit
    too wide.\r\n\"F\": I'd lower the bar.\r\n\"G\": Slightly too narrow.\r\n\"J\":
    Tail not working at all. Maybe descend it (if you end up descending the \"Q\").\r\n\"K\":
    Nice, but a bit wide.\r\n\"M\": Too wide.\r\n\"P\": Slightly larger head.\r\n\"Q\":
    Tail not working, especially inside. Not descend it?\r\n\"U\": A bit too narrow.\r\n\"V\",
    \"W\": Same problem as in the lc.\r\n\r\nNumerals:\r\nI can only recommend what
    I so often do for text faces: hybrid numerals! Actually not far from what you
    already have, but taller than the lc x-height in body.\r\n\r\nAll in all, great
    stuff - please keep it up!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-14 07:05:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Milne
  body: "Hi Hrant.\r\n\r\nThankyou for your detailed critique and words of encouragement:
    lots of things for me to think about.\r\n\r\nIn terms of proportion and colour
    I think I have been too vague in stating my goals \u2013 sorry. Rather than 8
    or 9pt regular, this typeface should probably be seen as a semi-light for setting
    at 10pt. I intend to create a regular, semi bold and bold in the future. I started
    with the lightest weight because I\u2019m told that this is the most difficult
    to establish in terms of curves and stroke variation.  \r\n\r\nTherefore, as at
    10pt semi-light, I imagine I should increase my ascenders somewhat and maintain
    the same level of colour? Further down the track, I\u2019d like to create a caption
    cut with reduced extenders for setting at smaller sizes.\r\n\r\nThe colour of
    Omnium has simmered down during the testing process. I\u2019m aiming to find the
    smallest amount of stroke variation which still conveys its rotated humanist axis
    at 10pt (with laser output.)\r\n\r\nWith regards to proportions, a small preliminary
    comparative analysis I did may be of interest:\r\n\r\nBefore I started drawing
    Omnium, I made a rough analysis of a bunch of typefaces in terms of proportion
    and colour, making measurements and comparing them as percentages of each typeface\u2019s
    x-height (which I believe to be the most useful benchmark in terms of comparison).
    I measured ascender and descender lengths, maximum stroke thickness (typically
    the stem of the lc d), minimum stroke thickness (crossbar on the lc e). I divided
    min stroke thickness by max stroke thickness to give me a crude measurement for
    comparing the variation stroke thickness. To measure how condensed each typeface
    was, I measured the widths of lc d, e and o. I also measured the axis of stroke
    variation for each. A table of data can be viewed here: \r\n\r\nhttp://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files/omnium_decon.pdf
    \r\n\r\nNumerals:\r\nYes. I am very keen on the idea of hybrid numerals: not to
    replace the lining numerals, but to replace the old style ones. I\u2019ll explore
    some possibilities.\r\n\r\nThanks again for your advice. I\u2019ll post a revised
    version ASAP.\r\n\r\nDan\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-15 07:00:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For 10 point, I'd definitely lengthen the ascenders a bit. But this sort
    of thing isn't done to maintain color, it's done to be in tune with immersive
    reading, which is helped by different proportions depending on size.\r\n\r\n>
    I started with the lightest weight because I\u2019m told that this is the\r\n>
    most difficult to establish in terms of curves and stroke variation.\r\n\r\nMaybe.
    But I'd rather see the design of the Regular done first, simply because that'll
    be used most. Note that basing things on an extreme weight can skew the Regular
    in peculiar ways: potentially interesting for display, generally bad for text.
    On the other hand, you're not really far from what I personally would like to
    see as the Regular weight of this design (a bit darker) so I don't think you'll
    have any such problems.\r\n\r\n> http://danmilne.fastmail.fm/omnium_decon.pdf
    \r\n\r\nCool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-15 18:12:52'
- author:
    name: Dan Milne
  body: "I have made some changes to Omnium U&lc and numerals. A PDF can be viewed
    here:\r\n\r\nhttp://danmilne.fastmail.fm/Omnium_serif_55_metrics2.pdf\r\n\r\n\r\nCHANGES:\r\n\r\nI
    have lengthened the ascenders by 3%, the descenders by 1%. The Cap-height and
    stroke weights are the same as before.\r\n\r\nI tilted the bowl of the lc a down
    and gave it a serif terminal.\r\n\r\nI have given g, j, f, r, y more weight and
    more \u2018scoop\u2019 on their terminals. I am hoping to avoid a serif terminal
    on the tail of the lc g.\r\n\r\nI rounded the lc o ever so slightly. \r\n\r\nI
    narrowed the lc m.\r\n\r\nI put small rising ears on lc q and g, removing the
    unnatural serif from the g (much better for letterfit now) \r\n\r\nI put a \u2018downward
    ear\u2019 on the base of the lc b and opened the curve, Hopefully the awkwardness
    of the lower right of the lc b is now vanquished.\r\n\r\nv, w, y, M, N and W now
    have more weight in their crotches.\r\n\r\nI have squared up the corners of \u2018s\u2019
    in U&lc.\r\n\r\nMinor adjustments to the proportions of BCEFGKMPRU\r\n\r\nAdded
    a serif terminal to J. I am keen to keep Q and J above the line \u2013 J at the
    very least. \r\n\r\nQUESTIONS:\r\n\r\nJ is now wider, more stable. What thoughts?\r\n\r\nThe
    new Q needs work. (The current form was inspired by Hrant\u2019s prototypes on
    the Patria thread \u2013 thankyou). Too much like a flat tyre at the moment? Given
    the conformity of the other caps, I\u2019m inclined to head towards a simple descending
    Q.\r\n\r\nLowercase numerals:\r\nI\u2018ve opted for lining 2/3 height numerals.
    I experimented with ranging numerals from that 2/3 height but numbers like 3 and
    5 were floating on either side of the x-height / baseline so I ditched them for
    the lining option. I intend to make my small caps this size too. What thoughts?\r\n\r\nDoes
    my lc t ascend enough?\r\n\r\nAny other observations?\r\n\r\nMany thanks,\r\n\r\nDan"
  children:
  - author:
      name: oribendor
      picture: 110846
    body: "Dan,\r\n\r\n\r\nThe uppercase Q is both unpleasant and too close to an
      O. If it had a long tail that went below the line, it would be much better,
      IMHO.\r\n\r\nAs for the numerlas, I don't think it works. They should be either
      bigger than lowercase or old style (that is, have ascenders and descenders,
      like in Georgia for example).\r\n\r\nOther than that, there may be some small
      corrections still needed to be done, but the overall look is quiet impressive!\r\n\r\n\r\noribendor"
    created: '2005-08-16 17:50:17'
  created: '2005-08-16 13:31:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think it's really starting to sing now!\r\n\r\nThe \"c\" is narrow.\r\n\r\nI
    would give the \"f\" still a lot more beak. Your x-height is pretty big, don't
    worry about touching.\r\n\r\nNumerals: \"3/4 lining\" ones are my second favorite.
    And seeing them in action I'm thinking they suit the certain \"business-like\"
    mien of this design quite well. BTW, I would give the diagonal of the \"7\" a
    bit more character.\r\n\r\nCaps: The \"A\", \"E\" and \"S\" are a bit wide. The
    \"J\" looks great. If you're sure about restricting the caps to above the baseline,
    I actually like that \"Q\", although I would try to make the tail longer - and
    maybe give it a strong flaring terminal, not a point. BTW, if you do end up descending
    the \"Q\", you really might as well descend the \"J\" as well - for one thing
    that helps spacing, especially for Slovenians.  :-)\r\n\r\nSpacing: a bit loose
    overall.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-16 18:18:53'
- author:
    name: Dan Milne
  body: "Here\u2019s another update of Omnium Serif.\r\n\r\nhttp://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files/Omnium_serif_121_metrics.pdf\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve
    added the primary punctuation / symbols. I\u2019ve adjusted a few character widths/terminals,
    tweaked the Q and tightened the spacing a bit (but probably not enough??). \r\n\r\nI've
    strengthened the beak on the f, but I'd really like to keep it narrow to avoid
    the need for ligs. (The substituted ligatures in Indesign dont work when small
    text is tracked slightly).\r\n\r\nI will make descending alternates (perhaps even
    default) for J and Q. It'll make life easier for the kids from LJUBLJANA (Thanks,
    Hrant). I think the above-the-baseline Q is working better now with a longer tail
    and more weight in the right places. Hopefully there\u2019ll be no confusing it
    with the O?\r\n\r\nIs the spacing tight enough yet? I think it\u2019s probably
    still too loose for 10pt? There is still no kerning.\r\n\r\nIs the ampersand a
    bit dark? Do you think I need a serif on my sharp s? Any obvious problems with
    the analphabetic characters thus far?\r\n\r\nOnce again, thankyou very much for
    your contributions. I\u2019ll post a PDF of Omnium\u2019s nerdy new-born sibling
    over in the Sans Department in the next few days.\r\n\r\nCheers, Dan\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-23 01:26:02'
- author:
    name: Dan Milne
  body: "I've just posted Omnium Sans in the amputees wing. He's a little more subdued
    than his big sister but I think they make good playmates.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/14805\r\n\r\nI'd
    love to hear what you think.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nDan"
  created: '2005-08-24 11:51:17'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: "Some minor details could be improved (like the C, for example - it looks
    narrow and tall), but overall good work.\r\n\r\nAbout the sans: I think the term
    \"amputee\" is quite appropriate... Seriously, the serif already has a \"sans\"
    quality to it, especially because of the low contrast between thicks and thins;
    I think you could focus on improving the serif instead of trying to derivate a
    sans. IMHO.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-25 16:19:23'
- author:
    name: Dan Milne
  body: "Hi Eduardo.\r\n\r\nThanks for your feedback. I am actually quite pleased
    that you say my serif has a sanserif quality to it. It was always my intention
    to create a family of hybrids: to push the serif and sanserif designs as close
    together as possible\u2026 to make a serif which takes proportions and geometry
    from sanserifs without losing too many of the serif features which help readability:
    the humanist axis, the stroke variation and, of course, the serifs. \r\n\r\nIn
    the same way, I\u2019d like to keep as much of this humanist readability in the
    sanserif as is possible without straying too far from what is considered a classic
    sanserif.  So I\u2019ve been waiting to stabilise the design of the serif before
    (gleefully) amputating the serifs, reducing stroke variation and making other
    necessary adjustments. \r\n\r\nSo I'm not really deriving a sanserif from my serif.
    I like to think of them as twins who have grown up together :-)\r\n\r\nI started
    with more variation in stroke thickness in the serif, but the boxy, angular counters
    were looking very awkward and I was forced to retreat.\r\n\r\nIf my serif appears
    to be too much of a \u2018sanserif with serifs\u2019, how do you suggest I improve
    it without increasing the stroke variation? I guess I could bracket the serifs
    a bit more?\r\n\r\nDan\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 08:19:23'
- author:
    name: Dan Milne
  body: "These are the small caps for Omnium Serif:\r\n\r\nhttp://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files/Omnium_serSC_15.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    have made them to match the height of the \xBE lining numerals. Perhaps they are
    a little larger than is ideal, but I think they will be more useful if they match
    the height of the numerals than if they sit somewhere in between and I dare not
    make the numbers any smaller.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think?\r\n\r\nI\u2019m having
    a lot of trouble getting the M, N, A and W (in small caps) light enough to match
    the other letters. Do you think I should further reduce the weight of the strokes
    \u2013 or is consistency of stroke weight more important than evenness of colour?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nDan\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-30 15:22:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have made them to match the height of the \xBE lining numerals.\r\n\r\nSmart.
    And I don't think they're too big.\r\n\r\nBut something else: if you're going
    to keep this overall loose fit, you'll need to make your blank space wider (and
    use more leading).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-30 18:53:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Milne
  body: "Here\u2019s my first attempt at Omnium Italic. Her proportions are based
    upon a 90% width and 12-degree sloping of the roman.\r\n\r\nhttp://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files/Omnium_Ser_ital_21.pdf\r\n\r\nShe
    ain\u2019t elegant, but I think she matches the roman quite well. I\u2019d be
    very grateful for any feedback you can provide.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nDan\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-19 14:28:51'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: "I like the italics; very simple and functional. Quick comments:\r\n- e: could
    have a slightly narrower/smaller bowl;\r\n- f: IMO, the long straight descender
    is disturbing, a curved descender would work better (or maybe no descender at
    all?);\r\n- x: too wide.\r\n\r\nAbout my previous post (regarding your sans version):
    it's just my personal opinion that sans-serifs directly derived from serif typefaces
    are often unnecessary/dull. I think this serif typeface is fine, that it has a
    certain \"sans\" quality to it is a good thing. But the sans needs more elaboration.\r\n\r\n--
    <a href=\"http://www.omine.net/\">omine.net</a>"
  created: '2005-09-20 22:04:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It does match the Roman very well. I might make it slightly more \"delicate\"
    though - maybe make some counters (like of the \"e\") smaller, and give some letters
    (like the \"s\") smaller heads - and maybe make the \"a\" the classic WAD form
    with the narrow top (which Parkinson admires, IIRC).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-21 06:14:47'
- author:
    name: Dan Milne
  body: "Here\u2019s a revised version of the italic.\r\n\r\nhttp://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files/Omnium_ser_ital_23.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    have reduced the counters and narrowed the heads of many of the characters (Thankyou
    Eduardo, Hrant). The shapes are a bit softer and more cursive overall. I have
    also streamlined and simplified terminals on the curved extenders and added more
    curve to the tail of the \u2018f\u2019.\r\n\r\nI have made ranging default numerals
    as well as a lining set to go with the (hopefully seldom-used) small caps. I have
    also loosened the spacing slightly. Do you think the spacing is ok?\r\n\r\nHi
    Eduardo,\r\n\r\nThanks for your advice once again. I agree with you that <a href=
    \"http://typophile.com/node/14805\">Omnium Sans</a> needs some work. It is clearly
    derivative of the serif and I think that as an individual typeface it struggles.
    As a supporting face for the serif it seems quite suitable, but I would like to
    see it rise above this level. I will turn my hand to it over the next few days.\r\n\r\nHi
    Hrant,\r\n\r\nFirstly, thank you for your consistent, constructive advice. The
    design of Omnium owes you much! It is amazing how much difference the tweaking
    of an \u2018s\u2019 can make to the personality of a typeface. I explored the
    idea of the Dwiggins narrow-topped \u2018a\u2019, but I couldn\u2019t make it
    work so I opted for a compromise in-between and adapted all the bowled characters.
    \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nDan\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-24 13:28:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think this is a big improvement.\r\nThat new \"f\" is especially nice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-24 20:02:33'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'one quick observation: the ligatures seem too wide.'
  created: '2005-09-24 21:04:51'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "These are both very beautiful faces, Dan. At first viewing, I thought it
    would be ideal for a magazine set, and then read that in one of your subsequent
    posts.\r\nI have art directed several (U.S. circulation) magazines, and I think
    your design would hold up well in that kind of context; it seems particularly
    suited to aqueous coated stock. "
  created: '2005-09-25 04:14:02'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: "hi! I would like to say that your shapes are quite interesting. What was
    your 'fuse'? I can sense some similarities with Frutiger's Apollo or Blockland's
    Proforma, though it it is distinct and very well optically balanced in both shapes.\r\n\r\nKeep
    the good work.\r\n(what was the software you used?, and have you considered glyphs
    for alternate characters?)"
  created: '2005-09-27 23:15:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Milne
  body: "Hi seml,\r\n\r\nThanks for your kind words.\r\n\r\nSilmbach\u2019s ITC Slimbach,
    Bilak\u2019s Fedra Serif, Unger\u2019s Demos & Praxis, Carl Dair\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.fonts.com/FindFonts/HiddenGems/Cartier.htm\">Cartier</a>
    and Bloemsma\u2019s <a href=\"http://www.evertbloemsma.nl/\">Legato</a> all influenced
    me in various ways.\r\n\r\nBlokland\u2019s Proforma is a great typeface. I was
    introduced to it after I did my first drawings for Omnium. It gave me confidence
    to keep the serifs long and unbracketed. I have just looked at it again and I
    think there might be some ideas there which will help me improve my italic.\r\n\r\nI
    wasn\u2019t aware of Apollo, but I just checked it out and it looks like Frutiger
    had similar goals with his long baseline serifs and his very oblique axis of stroke
    variation.\r\n\r\nI drew my characters by hand and then in Illustrator before
    taking them into Fontlab. In retrospect, I should have taken them straight from
    hand drawings into Fontlab because it is so much more precise than illustrator
    and much easier to test your letters as you draw them.\r\n\r\nSo far I\u2019ve
    only made alternates for \u2018Q\u2019 and \u2018J\u2019. I originally planned
    to keep all my caps above the baseline, but I was never really happy with my \u2018Q\u2019
    and the above-the-line \u2018J\u2019 makes spacing difficult so I developed <a
    href=\"http://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files/Omnium_Alt_ligs_230.gif\">these.</a>\r\n\r\nDo
    you have some suggestions for other alternates?\r\n\r\nMy f-ligatures are simply
    joined at the crossbar, so I\u2019ve used context dependent substitutions to substitute
    a single long crossbar\u2019d \u2018f\u2019 with the existing I such that the
    letter combinations can be tracked freely\u2026 As opposed to stiff ligatures.
    If that makes sense\u2026\r\n\r\nDan\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: seml
      picture: 110996
    body: "Bringhurst has written that we shouldn\xB4t try to make vain changes in
      what history has proven to work. Changes sometimes only scramble the code that
      is known for so many... therefore I think that the choice to draw the 'Q' and
      the 'J' below the baseline is \"typographically correct\". Although we look
      for changes in order to distinguish \"our\" drawings from others, is it also
      known that only the very careful and microscopic eye can distinguish the novelties.
      It has to be banal enough for you to read without changing speed and recognition,
      but somehow leaves a perfume of a personality that gives it taste.\r\n\r\nAs
      for alternates, in roman type, the 'c's and the 't's can always fall is love,
      just like de 's's and 'c's, and the 's's and 't's. My advice is for you to look
      at the forms Slimbach made in Adobe Garamond, which drinks from Griffo's work
      in the Renaissance. But what I believe to be more interesting is the personality
      of the italic letter. There's a wonderful study in the work, also by Slimbach
      - Poetica. I had the honour of exploring this family on a small book on Old
      Music, through the combination of alternates, small caps, swash capitals and
      the chanceries, working aside with Bembo.\r\nWe should always learn from old
      ways. (Mrs Eaves by Licko shows that particular interest).\r\n\r\nYour typeface
      Omnium, in particular seems a challenge for exploring such a feature. I liked
      very much because it reminds me of the faces I have referred, but it has a touch
      of the geometric modernism that makes it interesting.\r\n\r\nI don\xB4t know
      how valid you might think my critics are, since I haven\xB4t drawn a typeface
      so far. I just a guy who loves letters and history and art, and the way that
      they interact.\r\n\r\nAs I have said before, keep up the good work ;) and keep
      me posted. I'd like to see the evolution."
    created: '2005-09-28 22:02:40'
  created: '2005-09-28 12:59:54'
- author:
    name: Dan Milne
  body: "Ligatures can have two roles: <em>style</em> and <em>function.</em> \u2018s_t\u2019
    and \u2018s_c\u2019 ligatures are examples of the former; \u2018f_f_l\u2019 is
    an example of the latter. As a typeface designed for magazines and books, Omnium
    concerns itself only with functional ligatures which solve spacing problems. The
    \u2018s_t\u2019 ligature is beautiful, but unnecessary and can be seen as a distraction
    in immersive reading. Omnium\u2019s \u2018f_f_l\u2019 ligature is almost entirely
    at the function end of the scale. It solves the problem of the undesirably close
    \u2018f\u2019 and \u2018l\u2019, adjusting the character shapes slightly to allow
    comfortable spacing. Rather than taking a purely functional approach to the f_f
    combination, I chose to unite, rather than shorten, the crossbar between the two.
    Perhaps a shortening of the offending crossbars (hence avoiding any binding of
    the letters) would have been a more \u2018invisible\u2019 solution, however the
    long crossbar seemed more in tune with my goal of horizontal emphasis. And can
    a ligature still be called a ligature if it does not bind, but serves only to
    space?\r\n\r\nI hope that, in avoiding distractive ligatures, Omnium is not considered
    bland.\r\n\r\nFor similar reasons, I have replaced the original non-descending
    \u2018Q\u2019 with a more standard and predictable design. However, I have kept
    the original non-descending \u2018Q\u2019 as an alternate for the odd occasion
    when someone might like to set a heading in caps without descenders, perhaps with
    a rule below.\r\n\r\nI am pleased that Omnium reminds you of Garamond and Griffo.
    In fact, the name <em>Omnium</em> comes from that much referred-to <a href=\"http://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files/
    jenson_scan76.gif\">page from Jenson in <em>De Evangelica Preraratione,</em> Venice,
    1469.</a> It is a word chosen both for its \u2018physical\u2019 beauty and for
    its meaning: it is the genitive plural of Latin <em>omnis,</em> meaning <em>all</em>
    or <em>of all.</em> But it is the Jenson text\u2019s rhythmic nature and the strong
    horizontal lines, rather than the beautiful ligatures, which have contributed
    to the design of Omnium. As a straight-forward and business-like typeface, Omnium
    may not benefit from such stylistic ligatures. Perhaps they can be developed as
    a side-project. As you suggest, it would be a great challenge to design harmonious
    ligatures for such a rigid, geometric typeface. \r\n\r\n>therefore I think that
    the choice to draw the \u2018Q\u2019 and the \u2018J\u2019 below the baseline
    is \u201Ctypographically correct\u201D\r\n\r\nThe descending \u2018Q\u2019 and
    \u2018J\u2019 should not be seen as more \u2018typographically correct\u2019.
    The descending \u2018J\u2019 makes it easier to achieve even spacing (with fewer
    white space anomalies which disturb the horizontal movement of the reader\u2019s
    eyes), but I would argue that as a form of the \u2018J\u2019 it is no more conventional
    than the non-descending model. Even as I draft this post in Microsoft Word, I
    notice that Morison\u2019s ever-present Times New Roman sports a non-descending
    \u2018J\u2019. And most sanserifs as well\u2026 Omnium will use non-descending
    \u2018J\u2019s at the start of words and descending \u2018J\u2019s otherwise.\r\n\r\nDan"
  created: '2005-09-29 02:06:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> can a ligature still be called a ligature if\r\n> it does not bind, but
    serves only to space?\r\n\r\nGood question. If you consider the white as important
    as the\r\nblack (or really, important at all) then I would say yes, totally.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-29 03:25:55'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: "I' glad to see that you understand the meaning of my words. You would be
    suprised with the rude knowledge on typography that I have to deal with ;).\r\n\r\nIn
    fact, the reason I said that was a challenge is precisely because the 'omnium'
    face runs to purity of form that Tschichold and Gill seeked, which makes it difficult,
    or should I say 'inadequate' to treat it like a classical typeface. (Just trying
    to defend the experiment and the 'errare humanum est'.)\r\n\r\nThe apprecitions
    I've made had the goal of taking to the limit the articulation of influences that
    you are 'printing' with your face.\r\nIt gives shape to what I whould draw, that's
    why I couldn\xB4t look at it without tell you something.\r\n\r\n\r\n(And I agree
    that the name is well applied, considering the basis of this kind of drawing).\r\n\r\nI
    whould buy it.\r\nKeep up. ;)"
  created: '2005-09-29 09:23:35'
- author:
    name: Dan Milne
  body: "I\u2019ve recut <a href=\" http://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files/omnium_ser_ital_85.pdf\">omnium
    italic.</a>\r\n\r\nI have adjusted each letter so that the slope is more consistent
    (thanks Wendy).\r\n\r\nI have made it considerably more cursive. The bowls now
    form complete arcs, cutting into the stems slightly. I hope the intersections
    are not too black?\r\n\r\nI have also reduced the weight of the serifs because
    I felt they were disruptive before..\r\n\r\nI think it is looking much better,
    but I am concerned that it no longer matches the structure of the roman as well
    as the former design.\r\n\r\nI\u2019d love to hear your thoughts.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Dan\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-03 15:02:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Milne
  body: "Here is <a href=\"http://omnium.danmilne.fastmail.fm/files/omnium_serif_italic_140.pdf\">the
    latest version of the italic.</a> \r\n\r\nI have softened many of the character
    shapes so that they better match the serif and have removed those awkward top
    right-corners on the a, d, g etc, opting to expose the top of the stem instead
    (Thanks Brad). I have adjusted curves on the \u2018m\u2019 and \u2018n\u2019 as
    well.\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n<em>Only two things I'd like to comment: the finishings
    of the 's' look a bit strong when compared with the finishing strokes of other
    letters e.g. the leg of the 'k', the one down right. The serif detail looks different.
    Is that on purpose or are you afraid of losing the squared shape? Also, that same
    purpose seems to affect the bowls like the one of the 'a', for instance. It gives
    it a broken shape, as intended, but I believe that the horizontal elongation should
    be enough to give the squared personality you seek, without being too attached
    to the roman attitude.</em>\r\n\r\nThe \u2018s\u2019 is much revised: I have rounded
    the curves and given it a bit more forward movement. I think the lack of squareness
    in the italic helps to differentiate it from the roman.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nDan"
  created: '2005-10-09 15:16:14'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: "Hi Dan,\r\n\r\n2 words: Much Better.\r\nGlad to see you agree that you admit
    that the absence of squareness in the italic gives it its own personality. It
    becomes quite interesting to see how the two forms are so close and so separate
    at the same time.\r\nOnly one thing: it seems to me that the uppercase 'S' hasn\xB4t
    got the same balance as you have given now to the lowercase one.\r\nI liked the
    detail of the relationship between the uppercase 'T' and the lowercase 'h'. They
    seem to fit like a key to the lock. Still, as the spacing seems to be important
    for you, could you consider ligatures between uppercase/lowercase?\r\n\r\n(No,
    it's not an obsession :D)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nSandro"
  created: '2005-10-09 20:24:08'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: "another thing, you won\xB4t be mad at me if I tell you that I'm preferring
    the Italic best? It's not about achievement, but personal taste. Still, good work\r\n\r\n;)"
  created: '2005-10-09 20:28:28'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Really nice work. What you've done with the ampersand italic and the french
    look you've gave to him it's perfect.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-09 21:35:20'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: "hello dan!\r\n\r\nI've just noticed something a bit weird. I printed it in
    order to be sure that ismn\xB4t a visulization problem. The 'e'. The stronger
    lower part makes him lower than the actual baseline made by other letters. I believe
    it's due to the strength of the the lower stroke, more than the height. Could
    you take a look at it? The italic version seems better, but the roman should be
    analized.\r\n\r\nIt's almost perfect. Keep up.\r\n\r\nCheers."
  created: '2005-10-11 13:58:25'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: One more thing. The rendering of the lowercase 'a' in the italic version seems
    to have a problem with the rendering. Is it my problem?
  created: '2005-10-11 14:00:19'
date: '2005-08-13 12:42:16'
title: T.T.P.K.A. Omnium

---
