---
author:
  name: sebsan
  picture: 110914
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nI am a self-taught graphic designer and I have been lacking some
  real understanding of typography. I know very little about the history of typography,
  it's technological evolutions and the rules of best practice. I see the world of
  typography as being as  complicated and unfriendly as the messy font collection
  we have at work. When I dive into FontAgent at the office, I don't know where the
  fonts come from, what they where made for and how I can best understand and use
  them (nor does my boss). \r\n\r\nI've been reading some intersting articles on different
  sites dedicated to type and I've learned quite a lot but I feel there is still a
  website to make about typography vernacular. The language used is often confusing,
  contradictory and esoteric. For exemple what is a font? Seems like a silly question
  since I use the word everyday, but if I think about it I don't really know where
  the word comes from and what it really refers to. Last night I was reading an advert
  for the excellent <a href=http://www.typography.net>Enigma</a>, it read <cite>\u201CEnigma
  has 3 fonts, 2 wheights, and 4 styles\u201D</cite>. Er... excuse me but I thought
  that Enigma was the font ?! \r\n\r\nAt this point I would like to recommand an article
  that has really helped me understand some of the fonts I am using at work. <a href=http://designforum.aiga.org/content.cfm?ContentAlias=%5Fgetfullarticle&aid=1112055><cite>When
  typefaces were experimantal</cite></a> by Paul Shaw is the kind of essential literature
  for grahic designers to understand where those long lists of fonts in their machines
  come from. I just wish they were some more of that didactic stuff on the web or
  in books.\r\n\r\nI have a straight question for you, it's probably not the most
  important but it really bugs me. Why do Herculanum, papyrus and odd fonts like that
  come standard with my OS X system?\r\n\r\nSeb"
comments:
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Yeah, the language is a mess for a variety of reasons. Here's my understanding
    of the 'correct' usage:\r\n\r\n<strong>[[font]]</strong>: refers to the <em>file</em>,
    the data on your machine, the 'font' from which the type springs (so to speak),
    common usage for 'font' makes it interchangeable with 'type' or 'typeface', even
    though it's imprecise\r\n\r\n<strong>[[typeface]]</strong>: the literal face of
    the font, the design. Common usage often makes this refer to the roman, with the
    implication that the other weights and styles are part of the typeface, which
    is, again, imprecise.\r\n\r\n<strong>[[type]]</strong>: refers to characters that
    use a predetermined design for assembling into words, etc. Also refers to the
    output (type on a page, etc.), common usage makes it interchangeable with font,
    but is imprecise.\r\n\r\n<strong>[[family|type family]]</strong>: a group of typefaces
    that have a common design origin/theme\r\n\r\n<strong>[[glyph]]</strong>: a specific
    visual mark/design, doesn't necessarily carry any meaning or symbological cues\r\n\r\n<strong>[[letter]]</strong>:
    the set of shapes upon which we all loosely agree on that carry certain alphabetic
    meanings and cues, which can be expressed with different glyphs and typefaces,
    as long as it shares enough of the commonly recognized shapes that it is recognized
    as a meaningful symbol, blah, blah, blah, philosophy.\r\n\r\n<strong>[[character]]</strong>:
    a printed/displayed/written letter or symbol, refers to the thing without referring
    to its design attributes (I think)\r\n\r\n<strong>[[lettering]]</strong>: any
    creation of letters not employing type/fonts (implying that it's done by hand)\r\n\r\n<strong>[[sort]]</strong>:
    a piece of metal type\r\n\r\n<strong>[[weight]]</strong>: the visual darkness
    or lightness of the strokes in a character: ultra light, light, semibold, black,
    ultrablack, etc.\r\n\r\n<strong>[[style]]</strong>: an alteration in the design
    that is distinct but isn't weight-related: italic, roman, regular, text, display,
    small caps, etc.\r\n\r\nThis is my own working understanding of these [[terminology|terms]].
    There are others here who probably disagree (or know better than I do), and my
    definitions are meant to be brief, not comprehensive.\r\n\r\n\"<em>Why do Herculanum,
    papyrus and odd fonts like that come standard with my OS X system?</em>\"\r\n\r\nBecause
    most people can't see the difference between [[Garamond]] and [[Times New Roman]],
    and selling is about 'perceived value', so more different-looking fonts = value.
    Also, most people don't have the design mind or skills to add true charater to
    a layout, so a novelty/display face allows them to 'paint on the aesthetic' with
    the click of their mouse. The less cynical view: there's a good use for any type
    (font), and variety is the spice of life."
  created: '2005-08-19 14:13:51'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Oof. I realized that there's some strict inconsistencies in there, but I'm
    not diving headlong into that thicket.\r\n\r\n\"Do I contradict myself? Very well,
    then I contradict myself, I am large, I contain multitudes.\"\r\n\r\n\u2013 Walt
    Whitman"
  created: '2005-08-19 14:16:15'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"what is a font?\"\r\n\r\nI know it's confusing. Part of this comes from
    incorrect use of terms by the wide assortment of participants, from newbie founders
    to the aged and beyond...\r\n\r\nNo one knows for sure where the word comes from
    except that it's mostly believed to originated in France, where the idea of a
    spring of water, was close enough to the ideas that spring from words, I guess,
    to merit the additional definition of the word...\r\n\r\nBut eventually, font
    came to mean a single size of a single style, remembering that before multiple
    masters and scaleable outlines, (film aside), a font was metal, or wood, and so
    it was only good for a single size...\r\n\r\nDigital outline font, means a bit
    more can be done with this new kind of font. Font Family, means a clooection of
    styles meant to be used in conjunction, like Roman, italic and bold. Font library
    them means a collection of families and styles... and so on. . . \r\n\r\n\"Enigma
    has 3 fonts, 2 wheights, and 4 styles\"\r\nI don;t know what this means either,
    and I've been around for while. Maybe, it's a marketing ploy to make Enigma enigmatic.\r\n\r\n\"Why
    [...] fonts like that come standard with my OS X system?\r\nOriginally, fonts
    came with OS so you could see the OS, like Chicago, or something. But then, when
    OS makers wanted to attract broader audiences, they expanded the fonts they \"bundled\"
    with the OS. Now, the OS folk want certain classes of users, (not graphic designers
    e.g. but dentists, e.g.), to have all the fonts they needed from the start, to
    make the documents they needed. So, Herculanum was included for people interested
    in sharing ideas that felt buried under volcanic ash, or somethin'.\r\n\r\nHope
    that helps...\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-19 14:19:23'
- author:
    name: euginb
  body: "<cite>\"the \u2018font\u2019 from which the type springs (so to speak)\"</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>\"it\u2019s
    mostly believed to originated in France, where the idea of a spring of water,
    was close enough to the ideas that spring from words, I guess, to merit the additional
    definition of the word\u2026\"</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nOn an etymological side note.\r\n\r\nOur
    \"font\" has nothing to do with the font as in fountain, or spring -- it comes
    from the French <em>fondre</em> (Lat. <em>fundere</em>), to melt. So traditionally,
    our word \"font\" would refer to the founded metal type set (correct?)."
  created: '2005-08-19 15:06:17'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Font?\r\n\r\nNot to spread any more misinformation than already exists, I
    will share my understanding of the origin of the term <em>font</em>.\r\n\r\nAs
    told to me by several \"old coot\" typesetters (skilled craftsmen who set lines
    of copy professionally prior to Macs and PostScript), the term <em>font</em> is
    derived from <em>fount</em> and <em>foundry</em> going back to the manufacture
    of type using molten metal. The <em>fount</em> was the reservoir or pot of molten
    <a href=\"http://www.bastoky.com/Typo.htm\" target=\"new\">lead/tin/antimony</a>
    which was used for casting individual type characters, and eventually complete
    lines of type (linecasters, Linotype contraction of \"line-of-type\").\r\n\r\nType
    casting referred to the manufacture of typefaces, hence it was often done by metal
    [[foundry|foundries]]. The <em>font</em> then loosely referred to the finish casted
    <em>[[sort]]</em> of the typeface, which was a SINGLE point size set of individual
    type characters sufficient enough for composing typical print jobs.\r\n\r\nSo,
    that is the mysterious origin of <em>font</em> as told to me by the errant Knights
    of [[Aldus Manutius]]... again, just legend.\r\n\r\n-------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, mwah-ha-ha!"
  created: '2005-08-19 15:07:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sebastien, I would highly recommend one pivotal book that will go a long
    way towards giving you \"comfort\" in the world of type: Alexander Lawson's \"[[Anatomy
    of a Typeface]]\" (although it deals much more with history than dissection).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-19 16:17:37'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Another reason terminology gets confusing is because the original defintions
    were loose to begin with and commonly misused in advertising copy.\r\n\r\nHence,
    a typeface (specific design like \"Neue Helvetica\") might be part of a family
    (also called \"Neue Helvetica\") which generally follows a convention of weight
    and style variants. \r\n\r\nWeights HAD generally referred to versions created
    with different [[stem]] thickness (Thin, Light, Medium, Book, Demi, Bold, Extrabold,
    Heavy, Ultra, 45, 55, 75, etc. are just some common terms used and abused).\r\n\r\nStyles
    HAD generally referred to commonly excepted design variants which maintained visual
    continuity of look and feel -- though not ALWAYS true -  [[Italic]] (though sometimes
    regarded a \"weight\"), [[Oblique]], 46, 56, Cursiv, Condensed, 47, 57, Compressed,
    Expanded, Extended, [[Inline]], Outline, [[Handtooled]], Shadow, [[Titling]],
    [[Diplay]], [[Poster]], are just a few of the dizzying nomenclature thrown about.\r\n\r\nWhen
    Linotype made <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/packages/172714/\"
    target=\"new\">Neue Helvetical Family</a> available in 51 <em>Styles</em> purchasable
    as a single part number, things really got confusing. What was Helvetica 57 Condensed
    Oblique? A [[Squooshed]] slanted version of 57, or did they really just mean Helvetica
    58? It's <a href=\"http://www.fonthaus.com/xheight/typefam.cfm\">Adrian Frutiger's</a>
    fault for using those <a href=\"http://www.fonts.com/AboutFonts/Articles/fyti/TypeFamilies.htm\">damned
    numbers</a>.\r\n\r\nDoes a type vendor license typefaces from a type foundry,
    so they in turn can manufacture a font that the end user can install the font
    and who license to right actually use the typeface design AND the software technology
    under a set of legal agreements? Yup, I think that's right.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-19 17:52:57'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Here's my simple explanation:\r\n\r\nYou've got a collection of letters,
    numbers, symbols, etc. that can be used together to form words, paragraphs, tables,
    etc.\r\n\r\nThe physical embodiment of such a collection (whether it's a case
    of metal pieces or a computer file) is a <strong>font</strong>.\r\n\r\nWhen referring
    to the <em>design</em> of the collection (the way it looks) you call it a <strong>typeface</strong>.\r\n\r\nA
    <strong>typeface family</strong> or <strong>font family</strong> refers to a related
    collection of typefaces or fonts.\r\n\r\n<strong>Weight</strong> refers to the
    thickness of the strokes that make up the letters, numbers, etc. of the typeface
    (light, bold, etc.).\r\n\r\n<strong>Style</strong> refers to a distinct design
    variations within a typeface family (italic, condensed, etc.).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-19 18:40:40'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "A little off topic (but not much):\r\nI've always wondered about <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/itfmecanorma/futura-black/\">Futura
    Black</a> ever since I saw it in high school. What's the story with the single
    to double-story \"a\"? Actually, in high school I said, \"Far out. What's up with
    that, man?\"\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-19 19:41:36'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Start with:\r\n\r\n1.  Anatomy of A Typeface by Alexander Lawson\r\n     [[The
    History and Technique of Lettering]] by [[Alexander Nesbit]] \u2014 if you want
    to have a   nice background about letters & typefaces.\r\n\r\n2. [[The Complete
    Manual of Typography]] By [[James Felici]]."
  created: '2005-08-19 19:56:58'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "When I was serving my apprenticeship during the age of dinosaurs, my ITU
    lesson books explained pragmatically that \"font\" sprung fom the word \"fount\"
    (still used today in the UK) meaning a source from which words gushed. It went
    on to say that a Font is an assemblage of enough letters, punctuation and figures
    with which to set a collection of words. So I guess I am saying about the same
    things that Mark has said. \r\n\r\nThe smaller the point size, the more characters
    of each you got; following what was called a \"font scheme\", which meant that
    you got more a's that z's roughly.\r\n\r\nI realize that the common useage of
    \"font\" today is for the actual stye of the typeface. I have no argument with
    that. Many terms in current use have come from ancient ones, and even thopught
    somewhat bastardized they become the modern nomenclature.\r\n\r\nA couple of months
    ago I received a commission to make a simple wordmark for a young art director,and
    at first was confused becuase she wanted it to be an origianl \"font\". Once we
    were on the same page everything was OK.\r\n\r\nIn my world a font is still a
    font of so many pounds of lead when I cast fonts for printers and designers, and
    I've gotten used to calling a digital face a font.\r\n\r\nJim \r\n"
  created: '2005-08-19 20:54:02'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Lost Terminology of the Print Trade\r\nWhat does it mean when a pica-thumper
    is pieing in his case?\r\n<a href=\"http://www.metaltype.co.uk/stories/story18.shtml\">Metaltype.co.uk</a>
    has a great glossary of old typesetter trade terms.\r\n\r\n-------------------------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm a Swinger Wayzgoose Nailing on The Stone!"
  created: '2005-08-19 21:40:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Our \u201Cfont\u201D has nothing to do with the font as in fountain, or
    spring \u2014 it comes from the French fondre (Lat. fundere), to melt.\"\r\n\r\nyeah
    yeah yeah. I've heard that one before. So what you're saying is our word for a
    composition-ready package of type comes from the French \"to melt\"? People, even
    French people, use words that mean something, so they remember. (Souvenir, by
    the way was originally drawn for the French Tax Department, according to Ed, remember?).
    So believe what you will, but I, when all evidence trails off, try my best to
    make sense. :)"
  created: '2005-08-21 12:52:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">make sense\r\n\r\nAccording to my Oxford Concise Dictionary, the word Fount
    (English spelling) and Foundry come from the same French root, 'fondre', which
    means according to my French dictionary not only 'melt,' mentioned above, but
    more relevantly 'cast', as in casting a metal statue. So a foundry is a place
    that casts metal, and a 'fount' or 'font' is a casting of an alphabet in metal.
    Makes sense to me.    "
  created: '2005-08-21 16:19:34'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I guess the 'old coot' typesetters weren't pulling my leg after all.\r\nHmmmm...
    I better get rid of those type lice before I pull the furniture from the chase."
  created: '2005-08-21 17:02:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Don't lounge on that chase without the keys or you will be locked up for
    improper use of furniture :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-21 17:23:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Yeah, but you''ll have the ''quoins'' for your trouble.  '
  created: '2005-08-21 18:40:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Good one William :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-21 18:54:19'
- author:
    name: adiazpaz
  body: 'Interesting thread. Perhaps Typophile.com could organise a Typography 101
    for us newbies... '
  created: '2005-08-22 11:02:41'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Alexei,\r\nWe are hoping to expand the \"<a href=\"http://typophile.com/forum/16\"><strong>Typographic
    Edumacators</strong></a>\" topic thread to include not only suggestions for educators
    of design and typography classes, but also to include information useful to students
    and newbies.\r\n\r\nFor now, try the TypoWiki section for detailed and specific
    type info, and of course, ask questions -- that's how these topics get started.\r\n\r\n--------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but not too old to learn!"
  created: '2005-08-22 12:40:54'
- author:
    name: sebsan
    picture: 110914
  body: "Writing to the Typophile community is the best thing I've done for my graphic
    design career in a long time. \r\n\r\nI am not sure how the TypoWiki works though.
    Often the the links take me to an empty entry field."
  created: '2005-08-22 16:19:14'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: 'sebsan if there is a red "w" superscript to the right of a wiki link it means
    the  page is empty either because it was just created by making the link to it
    or because no one has gotten around to filling it in yet.   '
  created: '2005-08-22 16:23:17'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "I've just completed cutting Eastern and Western dialect Cree matrices in
    14 point from a new design of my own. The problem I now have aside from being
    completely illiterate in the language is how to font it. In other words a font
    count (scheme). Does anyone have any idea where a person can find such numbers?
    I have scoured the Aboriginal councils and various bodies, but have come up with
    nothing. \r\n\r\nAny lead would be appreciated.\r\n\r\nJim"
  created: '2005-08-23 03:56:39'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Perhaps Typophile.com could organise a Typography 101 for us newbies\u2026</em>\r\n\r\n...it's
    called [[Elements of Typographic Style|The Elements of Typographic Style]]\r\n\r\nJim,
    I think your last post deserves its own thread. Email me if you need help on making
    a new posting: pauldhunt (a) yahoo . com. (take out the spaces and put the at
    symbol i there)"
  created: '2005-08-23 04:33:52'
- author:
    name: rogergordon
  body: "@Mark Simonson:\r\n\r\nAfter a long period of confusion, I think I finally
    get it. Thanks a lot."
  created: '2007-12-16 21:04:49'
- author:
    name: cclifford
  body: "Suggested Reading:\r\nThe History and Technique of Lettering \r\nby Alexander
    Nesbitt  \r\n\r\nHistory of Graphic Design \r\nby Philip B. Meggs\r\n\r\nWolfgang
    Weingart: My Way to Typography \r\nby Wolfgang Weingart\r\n\r\nPioneers of Modern
    Typography\r\nby Herbert Spencer\r\n\r\n:: \r\n:: cheryl clifford\r\n:: cmclifford@gmail.com\r\n::
    \r\n"
  created: '2009-09-02 12:54:50'
- author:
    name: Zergon
  body: Great !
  created: '2017-07-18 12:35:02'
- author:
    name: IvanPerez
  body: The physical embodiment of such a collection (whether it's a case of metal
    pieces or a computer file) is a font.
  created: '2017-08-05 17:17:23'
date: '2005-08-19 13:12:20'
node_type: forum
title: Er...what is a font?

---
