---
author:
  name: Glyn Adgie
body: This is (more or less) my first attempt at a serif typeface. Any comments and
  criticisms would be most welcome.
comments:
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: 'Attachment did not work. Try this: www.adgie.f9.co.uk/typophile/Ledbury1.pdf'
  created: '2005-08-21 12:44:55'
- author:
    name: grod
    picture: 109624
  body: 'I just wanted to say that this is excellent for text, I printed the pdf and
    think you''ve managed to create a face that very self-effacing (a good thing)
    and doesn''t intrude on the content. '
  created: '2005-08-21 17:57:24'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "It's very English, both in the solid unobtrusive nature and that leg on the
    'R'. It feels quite nice, but the curved leg on the 'K' doesn't do it for me.
    (I am funn ywhen it comes to k's\u2026)\r\n\r\nkris. "
  created: '2005-08-21 21:43:17'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: 'Some Ledbury updates: www.adgie.f9.co.uk/typophile/Ledbury2.pdf'
  created: '2005-08-22 15:42:31'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: This reads so smooth. It's like some kind of airy amaretto mousse melting
    in your mouth, but for reading. Once you work out a few minor kerning issues (the
    most obvious example is how "ry" or "rv" touch), you should have publishers lining
    up at your door with bags of money.
  created: '2005-08-22 16:49:09'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "Thanks for the encouraging comments, everyone.\r\n\r\nOn the subject of kerning,
    I would not normally get fully into that until a much later stage, i.e. when I
    have completed at least ISO8859-1 and a full set of punctuation. I like to work
    on the base spacing and shaping of the awkward letters first. On the other hand,
    it does appear that I made a rather unfortunate choice of name in Ledbury, as
    it contains at least one kern problem. I think I will do some temporary kerns
    for now, just to smooth out the major problems in the samples.\r\n\r\nBy the way,
    the numerals in the last sample are <em>horribly</em> rough. I banged these out
    quickly, and posted the sample before looking at a printout."
  created: '2005-08-23 07:13:02'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "Here is my latest update, including a decent amount of text to judge readability
    in book form. \r\n\r\nCharacter set: www.adgie.f9.co.uk/typophile/Ledbury3.pdf\r\n\r\nRight
    Ho, Jeeves: www.adgie.f9.co.uk/typophile/jeeves1.pdf"
  created: '2005-08-25 12:03:07'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: "It has a nice \"soft\" look; a good balance between vertical (x-height, descender,
    ascenders) and horizontal (width) proportions. Some letters (K and R for example)
    look a bit odd at big sizes but I think they work fine at text-sizes.\r\n\r\nLetter-specific
    comments:\r\n- a: maybe a bit too narrow;\r\n- g: the stress of the lower bowl
    looks odd to me, it feels like it is falling off (try rotating the lower bowl
    10 degrees counter-clockwise);\r\n- ij: dot too low?;\r\n- 5: I'd give it a top
    serif;\r\n- 7: the diagonal is too \"curvy\" to my taste."
  created: '2005-08-25 14:11:29'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "This is one of two fonts to be discussed from 1\u20133 pm EST as part of
    <strong>Critique Thursday 2</strong> (read about it <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/14813\">here</a>)!\r\n\r\nThis
    is an excellent face. What are your plans for it?"
  created: '2005-08-25 16:51:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Frankly, when I look at this, my first and main thought is: Why? It looks
    like a PDF substitution font. Technically it has a lot going for it, but isn't
    it just way too maintream? Unless the point is to: provide an extremely generic
    serif face (some people value genericity), sort of like Kievit does for sans;
    or simply provide for practice. That said, I do think there is sometimes value
    in designing a new font that \"distills\" so to speak the essentials of a few
    dozen existing faces that sort of define a category. But that's <strong>really</strong>
    hard to pull off - I'd be afraid to try.\r\n\r\nBut I don't want to be too negative.
    Even if I'm right about the stylistic paucity, at the very least we can have some
    elaboration on: if this should be given more character; how, and how much; what
    Glyn feels about doing that. This last bit is of course very important, but fonts
    are for <strong>other people</strong>, so it's not everything.\r\n\r\nLooking
    at it more closely, I would say that if one wanted to make this design more idiosyncratic,
    some structural strangenesses here and there would be an easy -if I guess superficial-
    way. But if my doubts are unfounded, let me know and I'll get into the micro stuff.
    But one micro thing I can't resist pointing out: the top of the bottom bowl of
    the \"g\" is a superb -and rare- form.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-25 18:15:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Very nice clean rendering, a silent partner in reading.\r\nSome of the weights
    of glyphs are a bit out of balance,  The i is too weak as is the left side of
    the e. ; good g.  The spacing is a tad too tight for me but not much.\r\nIt is
    a comfy face that you feel at ease with and there fore not as distinctive as some
    may wish.  This is not a bad thing, it just means your font won't separate itself
    from the rest easily.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-08-25 18:51:14'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Yes, I also agree that your rendering is clean and crisp.\r\nFor me, curved
    legs of the uppercase K and lowercase k seem to be the only unique aspect of this
    balanced design. I like them on both K/k but the treatment of curved tails on
    uppercase Q and R are slightly bothersome to my eye.\r\nGreat work.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-25 19:06:05'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Critique Thursday has ended, but there is no reason for the great discussion
    on this thread to have to, too! What do you think, Glyn?
  created: '2005-08-25 19:19:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, I'll just jump into the warm micro waters then...\r\n\r\n\"J\": tail
    out of character.\r\n\"Q\": much thinner bowl-tail join.\r\n\"R\": nicely non-generic
    character (sorry :-).\r\n\"S\": a bit wide.\r\n\"Z\": correct left lean.\r\n\"c\":
    correct left lean.\r\n\"f\": extend bar leftward.\r\n\"g\": stronger, rising ear;
    slight malformation at very bottom/bottom-left.\r\n\"k\": nice, but bend upper
    arm more evenly, throughout (although the UC one seems to work).\r\n\"s\": make
    slightly narrower.\r\n\"t\": malformed at bottom.\r\n\"w\": slightly too dark.\r\n\"&\":
    make bottom bowl bigger/rounder.\r\n\"fi\": define beak better.\r\n\"2\": malformed
    at top-left.\r\n\"4\": needs more presence (a \"standard\" problem).\r\n\"5\":
    make join thinner; give upward serif to end of bar.\r\n\"7\": diagonal unconvincing;
    maybe make bottom terminal like head serifs.\r\n\"8\": bottom bowl too small,
    and malformed at bottom.\r\n\"#\": looks mechanically warped.\r\nPound: longer
    base.\r\n\"@\": circle malformed.\r\n\"!\": too heavy.\r\n\r\nAnd two macro things:\r\n-
    I'd make the ascenders a hair taller.\r\n- Spacing: balanced, but loose in spots;
    blank space could be a hair thinner.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> Critique Thursday has
    ended\r\n\r\nHalf an hour early?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-25 19:30:30'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Half an hour early?</em>\r\n\r\nOh. That was my bad. Sorry :("
  created: '2005-08-25 20:31:59'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "Blast! I missed all the fun. Anyway, here are my belated replies to the comments
    so far.\r\n\r\nAs to Hrant's 'Why?': well, yes, it is a rather conventional design.
    On the surface, it appears pointless to go over the same ground that has been
    well covered before. However, I think each designer's interpretation of the traditional
    forms and decorations tends to be different, as long as the designer is not simply
    doing a revival of a particular typeface.\r\n\r\nMy basic idea with Ledbury is
    to make something functional: easy to read, and suitable for use in many settings.
    From several comments above, it appears that the design succeeds in the readability
    department, and I am obviously pleased about that. Beyond readability, I am aiming
    for something that looks attractive in blocks of text and headings, without being
    artsy and cute. This means that I need to be careful about stylistic oddities,
    like the 'g', and the curvy 'k', 'K', and 'R'. I think, though, that I can do
    more to give the design character, without detracting from its usefulness.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for all the help and encouragement chaps. I will more than likely post some more
    stuff soon.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 09:11:20'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "I have been working through some of the changes suggested above. Most of
    it I agree with. There are a few places where I think I will keep my present letter
    forms, as a matter of personal taste.\r\n\r\nHrant, why do you think the tail
    of the 'J' is out of character? I have not put a blob on it, because I did not
    think either 'J' or 'j' actually need blobs, as the termination is in the form
    of a thick stroke tapered down, like the bottoms of 'c' and 'e'. This taper also
    fits in fairly well with the slanted stress, I think.\r\n\r\nAs an aside, on the
    subject of blobs, the typical blob on the 'a' is inconsistent with a slanted stress,
    unless the top stroke is curved down alot towards the end. A blob termination,
    and curving the top down, both eat into the small top counter. One of my pet hates
    is an 'a' where the top counter is almost closed off by the blob. Perhaps I could
    try leaving the blob off altogether, and go for a taper like the bottom of 'c'.
    The typeface in one of the books I was reading recently  had a blobless 'a', and
    it did not harm readability at all in my opinion.\r\n\r\nMy 'S' and 's' are wider
    than is typical. I think this results from my disliking typefaces with particularly
    narrow esses. However I will try narrower forms, and see how they look in my text
    sample.\r\n\r\nOn the subject of the bottom bowl of the 'g', Eduardo, there does
    seem to be a potential problem with the slant causing it to look like it is falling
    off. However, I am reluctant to change this letter too much, as everyone else
    seems to like the somewhat unusual shape. From a function point of view, I was
    trying to avoid trapping a small white space between the two bowls, which I think
    can create colour problems. My earlier efforts (not presented on this forum) produced
    grey smudges in the text, which could have been due to that effect.\r\n\r\nOn
    the subject of the little oddities like the 'g', the curved legs of the 'k' came
    about from solving a colour problem, where the bottom of the 'k' looked to dark.
    The shape of the 'k' also helps with letter spacing with rounds on the right,
    I think. The curved legs on the 'K' and 'R' were to harmonise with the 'k'. As
    with 'k', I think the curved leg of the 'R' also helps with letter spacing. Contrast
    the effect with an 'R' that has a swash-like tail (curving the other way), which
    makes spacing really difficult, due to the need for a large negative right sidebearing,
    which then causes serif collisions. I do not know if all this makes sense. Comments
    would be welcome.\r\n\r\nHrant, I agree that the ear of the 'g' looks a bit weak.
    This is another problem I have had with the letter. However, I am not sure I want
    the ear to overshoot the x height much more than it already does.  I prefer a
    'g' which keeps things simple along the x height, rather than cluttering the reading
    line with extra blobs or sticky out bits. I will look into the malformation at
    the bottom, though. I had quite a few problems getting the contrast right in this
    area, and it still needs work.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I am off down the pub now with pencil
    and paper, to see what I can do to zing up the style a bit."
  created: '2005-08-26 12:25:10'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: Just another thought before I go. Does anyone think my capital straight sidebearings
    (e.g. 'H') are too big, or do I need to kern all capital straights next to rounds?
    I am thinking of the unkerned straight-round spacings in the words 'WODEHOUSE'
    and 'Medium', for example. I generally try to space all capitals a bit wider than
    the small letters. The fact that the capitals have longer serifs than the small
    letters also motivates some extra spacing to the main stems. Perhaps I have overdone
    it.
  created: '2005-08-26 12:35:53'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Hrant is doing a great job here. You don't need me here.
  created: '2005-08-26 17:37:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "?\r\nAre you a subset of me?... Hey, get out!!  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 19:10:43'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'What? What to add/say? '
  created: '2005-08-26 19:41:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My problem with the \"J\" isn't that it doesn't have a strong terminal*,
    it's the shape of the curve being \"skewed\" uncharacteristically. It looks a
    bit too calligraphic, while this design seems strongly Transitional.\r\n\r\n*
    I don't think it should have one anyway; but be careful about thinking \"it doesn't
    <strong>need</strong> one\", especially concerning the lc \"j\", since immersive
    reading depends heavily on presence/divergence in the extenders.\r\n\r\n> the
    typical blob on the \u2018a\u2019 is inconsistent with a slanted stress\r\n\r\nWorry
    more about reading than writing. There is actually a good reason <strong>not</strong>
    to have a strong terminal in the \"a\", but that's because it helps diverge boumas
    - it make the contribution of the \"a\" to the shapes we read stronger. My Patria
    has a terminal-free \"a\", and so does Proforma. Please see this: http://themicrofoundry.com/ss_read1.html\r\n\r\n>
    My \u2018S\u2019 and \u2018s\u2019 are wider than is typical. I think this results\r\n>
    from my disliking typefaces with particularly narrow esses.\r\n\r\nI like bulk
    too. But a text font is not [only] about one's aesthetic preferences. Divergence
    in width is also valuable -in fact very strongly so- in readability.\r\n\r\n>
    cluttering the reading line with extra blobs or sticky out bits.\r\n\r\nClutter
    mainly in the realm of display; in text, it's information.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 19:55:38'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Glyn,\r\n\r\nI think this has a very pleasing color and texture. It is conventional,
    but the amount of warmth and humanism you've infused it with is very welcome in
    a text face. Delightful! Also, Economical! \r\n\r\nRe: Kerning: your default spacing
    (sidebearings) of cap straights and rounds should be such that they do not need
    kerning. It's oddities and difficult overhangs like L, T, A, Y that need kerns.
    To space a font well leaves very little need for kerning. Bad spacing needs so
    much remediation by kerning it's not worth the time. Measure twice, cut once.
    \r\n\r\nFor a book typeface, caps will be used mostly in combination with lowercase,
    so the lowercase spacing is the most crucial. Adapt the cap spacing to work well
    with lowercase. This will result in all-cap settings that seem distinctly tighter
    than the lc, but now with OpenType you could offer a feature to letterspace caps.
    In the case of Ledbury, there does seem to be a bit too much room between the
    straight-sided caps and lowercase. \r\n\r\nfor your intriguing g, consider redistributing
    some of the weight around the lower bowl. There's a drooping feel, which could
    be eliminated without losing the nice open notch between bowls. Experiment with
    less weight on the left of the bowl and a little more on the outside of the link
    as it turns right. Nice work! \r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 20:12:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> now with OpenType you could offer a feature to letterspace caps.\r\n\r\nOr
    brute-force it with kerning for all the cap pairs!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 20:20:37'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "Thanks for the explanations, Hrant. I am now back from the pub. That said,
    please forgive any dropoffs due to the affluence of incohol. \r\n\r\nI can see
    what you mean about the problems with the undecorated terminations of 'J' and
    'j'. A bit of extra divergence of forms is going to add to functionality, which
    is all to the good, I would say. Reading your previous brief comment, I was a
    bit puzzled, as I thought that you might have been encouraging a more conventional
    design, which would certainly have been out of character. I will try blobs on
    the 'j' and 'J', with stronger curves, but I am a bit concerned about descender
    collisions with 'gj' and 'QJ'. Not very likely. you might think, but my alphabet
    investigations show that 'gj' is a common digraph in Albanian (one of your other
    posts put me onto this), and, with capital combinations, one must assume that
    anything goes, due to acronyms and such.\r\n\r\nWith the bit about the blob on
    the 'a' being inconsistent with the slanted stress, I am coming round to the idea
    that type letterforms should not neccessarily be dictated by the forms generated
    by writing.  I must admit that I often work out stroke thickness variations by
    assuming a notional pen, and use a nib-shaped guage on the background to check
    things. I have tried to avoid doing this in Ledbury, but the habit remains. By
    the way, my pencil sketches did not succeed in making a good blobless 'a', so
    the blob stays for now.\r\n\r\nRegarding the generous esses: I must admit I am
    fond of the fulsome shape, but I agree that this should not come at the expense
    of readability, especially given my stated aims.\r\n\r\nMust go now, my dinner
    is ready.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 21:29:27'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "Carl, thanks for your remarks about the warmth and humanism. This is precisely
    the feel I was going for.\r\n\r\nI can see your point about about expecting some
    tightness in all caps if the cap spacing is determined by working as initials
    for the lower case. I will tighten up the straight sidebearings, as I had thought
    I should. Opentype cleverness apart, it would seem to be normal practice for typesetters
    to loosen all cap spacing anyway, so perhaps overtight all caps are not really
    a problem.\r\n\r\nRegarding the weight distribution in the lower bowl of 'g',
    the weak bit from my point of view is the bottom left, which does not do justice
    to the top part. With the top part, I was going for a gradual flare out to the
    right corner, followed by an s-like reduction to minimum width around the bottom
    right. After that, I must admit I was unsure what should happen next. As I have
    said before, I think I need to be really careful about knocking this letter into
    shape, for fear of subduing its character. Much of the conventional nature of
    Ledbury has, I think, come about from knocking off the rough edges for the sake
    of functionality."
  created: '2005-08-26 22:57:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm, what about this idea for spacing caps:\r\nGive them more left than
    right sidebearings.\r\nCrazy?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-27 01:35:08'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "Hrant, I have considered doing just that at various times. One problem I
    can see is that it would widen the word space in front of initial caps. Not too
    bad for sentence breaks, maybe even beneficial, but would it make things like
    proper names embedded in sentences look wrong?\r\n\r\nBy the way, Hrant, I would
    have posted my reply and some remedial updates on Saturday, but I could not access
    the forums due to some Typophile server problem over the weekend. In the meantime,
    I have started the italics. My first test printout and studying other fonts raised
    a question about spacing (conventional) italics: should the spacing (rounds and
    main stems) be looser than the roman?"
  created: '2005-08-29 09:19:27'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "Here is my latest update: www.adgie.f9.co.uk/typophile/Ledbury4.pdf\r\n\r\nThis
    (I hope) fixes all the dodgy contours and proportions mentioned above. Blob terminations
    have been added to 'J' and 'j'. They look more positive now. The tail of 'Q' has
    been reshaped, to lighten the joint and make a more definite curve.\r\n\r\nI have
    tightened all the capital straight sidebearings, but I have not offset the caps
    as discussed with Hrant."
  created: '2005-08-29 10:23:39'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "Just an a few remarks about Hrant's earlier comment that Ledbury looks like
    a distillation of a stylistic category. I think I know why this has happened.\r\n\r\nAs
    a self-teaching aid, I have several other fonts on my system open in Fontforge,
    while I am working on my own. At the moment, I am looking at New Baskerville,
    Garamond, Aldine721, (all from a Bitstream collection that came with Wordperfect),
    and Adobe Minion Pro, that came with Acrobat Reader. I then look at things like
    proportions, stem widths, and decorations, and decide where I want my design to
    be placed, e.g. darker than this, but not as dark as that, or slightly bigger
    x height than most, and so on. I also look at the things in other designs I do
    not like, and try to 'fix' them, or adopt (but not copy) features from other designs
    that I like. This no doubt has the effect of making my design a sort of average,
    where I have not been confident enough in my own judgements.\r\n\r\nI am hoping
    that I will get more confidence as I go along, so I can base new work more on
    my own efforts, rather than always comparing my designs to others.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I am wondering what more experienced, and formally qualified, designers think
    about the benefits and drawbacks of detailed study and criticism of long-standing
    designs. My own feelings are that this rather old-fashioned learning process helps
    build technique and judgement, and that self-expression needs to wait on learning
    the basics, or it will result in naive and primitive work."
  created: '2005-08-29 11:27:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it would widen the word space in front of initial caps.\r\n\r\nAdd space-UC
    negative pairs? You'd need a lot fewer than kerning all UC-UC pairs.\r\n\r\n>
    italics: should the spacing (rounds and main stems) be looser than the roman?\r\n\r\nWell,
    generally italics have lighter color. Looseness is one way of getting to that,
    but I personally don't like that idea.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nStudying/following precedent:
    it's a two edged sword, or like an addiction. The more you do it, the more you
    have to remind yourself it can be dangerous.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-30 19:02:31'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "Why dangerous? I try to criticise long-standing designs, to see if things
    can be done better, so I am not saying that the traditional forms are set in concrete.
    I suppose I am being a cynical old engineer: if it ain't broke, don't fix it.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    the spacing of italics: knowing that the different decorations from the roman
    would affect this on straights, I started with the assumption that at least the
    round sidebearings would be the same, and tinkered with the serif length until
    the straight sidebearings looked right relative to this. Ledbury roman has rather
    short serifs, and I wanted to preserve that idea in the italic. This worked fine
    at larger sizes, but a 10 point print just looked far too tight. My point about
    some other italic fonts being loosely spaced was based on Minion Pro Italic, which
    appears to be much more loosely spaced than the roman. This is not the case with
    the Bitstream fonts.\r\n\r\nOn the colour thing: I have not lightened the italic
    by much, the main straight stem width is about 95% of the roman. Same goes for
    the width: it is only a bit narrower in general. I am trying to avoid a thin spidery
    look here, while providing the expected style contrast.\r\n\r\nI have not posted
    any samples of the italic, as it really is in a state of flux. It is mostly conventional
    in style at the moment, which is good for test purposes, but I think I can work
    in more adventurous stuff than I managed in the roman."
  created: '2005-08-30 21:27:48'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "Here is Ledbury Italic, with just the lower case done at the moment.\r\n\r\nwww.adgie.f9.co.uk/typophile/Ledbury-Ital1.pdf\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-01 10:32:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Looks fine (except the spacing).\r\nOnly the \"s\" is off: make it narrower,
    and maybe more \"wound-up\".\r\n\r\nBTW, the bowl of the Roman \"a\" is a bit
    too ample.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-01 16:32:52'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "This update should, I hope, fix the worst of the spacing problems, or at
    least prod things in the right direction. I am still working on various letter
    shapes. I am wondering whether to lift the bottom of the  arch of the 'y' a bit,
    or maybe tinker with the descender, as the top counter looks too big to me.\r\n\r\nwww.adgie.f9.co.uk/typophile/Ledbury-Ital2.pdf "
  created: '2005-09-02 12:24:48'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: Just noticed a hinting error, which causes severe distortion/trunction of
    the descenders. Should be OK for print, I hope.
  created: '2005-09-02 21:46:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'The first thing that strikes me about the italic is that the ascenders apprear
    too short compared to the Roman. The x-height may be too high also, but you will
    find out testing them in line with one another. '
  created: '2005-09-03 16:31:19'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "William, I just checked the x height and ascenders, in case I had made a
    mistake. It looks like I have made the italic ascenders except 'f' a hair short
    compared to the roman. There is only two font units difference, but perhaps this
    being amplified by rounding effects in rendering. The x height is the same, with
    the same overshoots.\r\n\r\nI recall reading somewhere, almost certainly on Typophile,
    that an optical correction for apparent height is sometimes applied to italics,
    but I cannot recall the details.\r\n\r\nI will be in a position to do a sample
    with in line italics shortly, after I have done the leftward offset of the italics.
    This sample should show if there are any real problems."
  created: '2005-09-04 05:39:02'
- author:
    name: Glyn Adgie
  body: "Here is an update, showing italics in line with roman. Regarding the apparent
    ascender or x height mismatch, I found small error in the ascender serif slope,
    which might make the ascenders look short. Also, the hinting error I mentioned
    earlier might possibly have expanded the x height, by affecting the rendering
    of baseline overshoots in a different way to the roman.\r\n\r\nThe italic offset
    has been set roughly according to the guidelines suggested by Mark Simonson and
    Thomas Phinney in reply to a question I posted in Build. I have set the alignment
    point at about 55% of the x height. This was just a convenient number for the
    purpose of quickly updating all the glyphs and construction guides."
  created: '2005-09-04 19:25:19'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "This is admirably successful: very ugly and very readable. \r\nHead and bottom
    serifs on b,i,u etc in the roman lowercase are too concave. Reducing bracketing
    on the serifs such that brackets do not reach the ends of the serifs would give
    the face a touch of severe elegance. Think how x might be improved, for instance.\r\n\r\na:
    consider lowering the upper part of the bowl, at the join especially,  such that
    it is possible to give more definition to the ball-terminal without diminishing
    the optical size of the aperture.\r\ne: reduce counter by thickening at top left.\r\nf,
    t: thicken bars.\r\ng: too beautiful for the rest of the face. Or consider altering
    bdpq to fit g (and also to fit O and Q). That is the route I should prefer.\r\no:
    too light.\r\ns: too broad, and the serifs are lifeless.\r\ny: Lighten crotch.\r\nz:
    serifs are lifeless.\r\n\r\nAll your thins in the Roman caps need thickening,
    as it is, they cause slight refocussing in reading to accomodate their greater
    dazzle (with plain letterforms, colour must be very carefully standardised). Lighter
    brackets would also especially benefit the caps. \r\nB: Pull the upper bowl inwards
    and/or reproportion to reduce the relative size of the upper bowl. Consider shaping
    the central join by having it curve with the lower bowl.\r\nM: drop or otherwise
    darken the central meeting point.\r\nS has the same problems which s does, and
    consider leaning it rightwards minimally.\r\nO and Q: too beautiful for the rest
    of the face, unless the rest of the face is changed instead.\r\n\r\nItalic:\r\nb:
    darken bottom of stem.\r\nk, z: thins are too thin.\r\np, q: consider regularising
    the descenders' serifs to horizantals, each a little longer under the bowl.\r\n\r\nHope
    this helps,\r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-11-10 02:28:23'
date: '2005-08-21 12:10:41'
title: Ledbury

---
