---
author:
  name: jim_rimmer
body: "I\u2019ve just completed cutting Eastern and Western dialect Cree matrices
  in 14 point from a new design of my own. The problem I now have aside from being
  completely illiterate in the language is how to font it. In other words a font count
  (scheme). Does anyone have any idea where a person can find such numbers? I have
  scoured the Aboriginal councils and various bodies, but have come up with nothing.
  \r\n\r\nAny lead would be appreciated.\r\n\r\nJim\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/creesmpl.gif]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Martin LAllier
    picture: 110634
  body: "Patrick Giasson will give a talk at the next Atypl in Helsinky on the Cherokee
    syllabary. Maybe part of is research can be of help (?)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.atypi.org/07_Helsinki/30_program/40_speakers/view_person_html?personid=11\r\n\r\nMichael
    Everson is also a potentially rich source http://www.evertype.com/"
  created: '2005-08-25 02:07:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jim, is there no digital data that you can throw at a frequency-counting
    algorithm (of which there are a few now)? If not, I would get somebody to sit
    down with a page or two of typical text and do a hand count; linguistic frequencies
    tend to stabilize quite quickly. Plus deciding on sort counts is a deterministic
    problem anyway - you don't need to be very precise.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-25 04:21:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Ross Mills? '
  created: '2005-08-25 04:53:02'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Because it takes me a few minutes to whip something like this up, I went
    ahead and ran some stats on some Cree texts I was able to find online. My sources
    were <a href=\"http://www.languagegeek.com/algon/cree/mcr_example.html\">Moose
    Cree</a> and <a href=\"http://www.languagegeek.com/algon/cree/thcr_example.html\">Woods
    Cree</a> the from <a href=\"http://www.languagegeek.com/algon/cree/nehiyawewin.html\">languagegeek.com</a>.
    In the table below, you just have a plain count of how many times each glyph occurs
    in the combined text. Hope this is helpful.\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n166 U+1472 CANADIAN
    SYLLABICS KA\r\n145 U+1455 CANADIAN SYLLABICS TA\r\n124 U+146d CANADIAN SYLLABICS
    KI\r\n110 U+1483 CANADIAN SYLLABICS K\r\n102 U+14aa CANADIAN SYLLABICS MA\r\n
    99 U+14c2 CANADIAN SYLLABICS NI\r\n 97 U+1401 CANADIAN SYLLABICS E\r\n 85 U+1403
    CANADIAN SYLLABICS I\r\n 80 U+1505 CANADIAN SYLLABICS S\r\n 78 U+14c7 CANADIAN
    SYLLABICS NA\r\n 74 U+140a CANADIAN SYLLABICS A\r\n 69 U+148b CANADIAN SYLLABICS
    CI\r\n 63 U+1424 CANADIAN SYLLABICS FINAL RING\r\n 61 U+1417 CANADIAN SYLLABICS
    WA\r\n 59 U+166e CANADIAN SYLLABICS FULL STOP\r\n 59 U+146b CANADIAN SYLLABICS
    KE\r\n 56 U+146f CANADIAN SYLLABICS KO\r\n 52 U+1405 CANADIAN SYLLABICS O\r\n
    49 U+14a5 CANADIAN SYLLABICS MI\r\n 47 U+144e CANADIAN SYLLABICS TI\r\n 45 U+14d0
    CANADIAN SYLLABICS N\r\n 41 U+1438 CANADIAN SYLLABICS PA\r\n 39 U+14c0 CANADIAN
    SYLLABICS NE\r\n 39 U+140e CANADIAN SYLLABICS WI\r\n 38 U+1511 CANADIAN SYLLABICS
    SHI\r\n 38 U+14ef CANADIAN SYLLABICS SI\r\n 37 U+1431 CANADIAN SYLLABICS PI\r\n
    36 U+14d5 CANADIAN SYLLABICS LI\r\n 35 U+1450 CANADIAN SYLLABICS TO\r\n 33 U+14f4
    CANADIAN SYLLABICS SA\r\n 31 U+152d CANADIAN SYLLABICS YA\r\n 31 U+147f CANADIAN
    SYLLABICS WEST-CREE KWA\r\n 30 U+1427 CANADIAN SYLLABICS FINAL MIDDLE DOT\r\n
    29 U+1490 CANADIAN SYLLABICS CA\r\n 28 U+1426 CANADIAN SYLLABICS FINAL DOUBLE
    SHORT VERTICAL STROKES\r\n 27 U+1423 CANADIAN SYLLABICS FINAL RIGHT HALF RING\r\n
    25 U+14a7 CANADIAN SYLLABICS MO\r\n 25 U+1466 CANADIAN SYLLABICS T\r\n 23 U+1481
    CANADIAN SYLLABICS WEST-CREE KWAA\r\n 23 U+144c CANADIAN SYLLABICS TE\r\n 22 U+142f
    CANADIAN SYLLABICS PE\r\n 19 U+14a1 CANADIAN SYLLABICS C\r\n 18 U+14a3 CANADIAN
    SYLLABICS ME\r\n 17 U+14da CANADIAN SYLLABICS LA\r\n 16 U+1422 CANADIAN SYLLABICS
    FINAL TOP HALF RING\r\n 15 U+140d CANADIAN SYLLABICS WEST-CREE WE\r\n 14 U+1420
    CANADIAN SYLLABICS FINAL GRAVE\r\n 14 U+140c CANADIAN SYLLABICS WE\r\n 12 U+14ed
    CANADIAN SYLLABICS SE\r\n 11 U+14f1 CANADIAN SYLLABICS SO\r\n 11 U+14c4 CANADIAN
    SYLLABICS NO\r\n 11 U+1456 CANADIAN SYLLABICS TAA\r\n 10 U+14ab CANADIAN SYLLABICS
    MAA\r\n 10 U+1418 CANADIAN SYLLABICS WEST-CREE WA\r\n  9 U+152e CANADIAN SYLLABICS
    YAA\r\n  9 U+14bb CANADIAN SYLLABICS M\r\n  9 U+147e CANADIAN SYLLABICS KWA\r\n
    \ 9 U+1473 CANADIAN SYLLABICS KAA\r\n  9 U+141a CANADIAN SYLLABICS WEST-CREE WAA\r\n
    \ 9 U+140f CANADIAN SYLLABICS WEST-CREE WI\r\n  8 U+1515 CANADIAN SYLLABICS SHA\r\n
    \ 8 U+14b6 CANADIAN SYLLABICS MWA\r\n  8 U+1406 CANADIAN SYLLABICS OO\r\n  6 U+15ac
    CANADIAN SYLLABICS TH-CREE THA\r\n  6 U+1541 CANADIAN SYLLABICS SAYISI YI\r\n
    \ 6 U+14d7 CANADIAN SYLLABICS LO\r\n  6 U+1434 CANADIAN SYLLABICS POO\r\n  6 U+141f
    CANADIAN SYLLABICS FINAL ACUTE\r\n  5 U+1489 CANADIAN SYLLABICS CE\r\n  5 U+1457
    CANADIAN SYLLABICS TWE\r\n  4 U+14c8 CANADIAN SYLLABICS NAA\r\n  4 U+1474 CANADIAN
    SYLLABICS KWE\r\n  4 U+1433 CANADIAN SYLLABICS PO\r\n  4 U+140b CANADIAN SYLLABICS
    AA\r\n  3 U+1501 CANADIAN SYLLABICS WEST-CREE SWA\r\n  2 U+15a8 CANADIAN SYLLABICS
    TH-CREE THI\r\n  2 U+1526 CANADIAN SYLLABICS YE\r\n  2 U+14d3 CANADIAN SYLLABICS
    LE\r\n  2 U+14cb CANADIAN SYLLABICS NWA\r\n  2 U+143a CANADIAN SYLLABICS PWE\r\n
    \ 2 U+1428 CANADIAN SYLLABICS FINAL SHORT HORIZONTAL STROKE\r\n  1 U+1540 CANADIAN
    SYLLABICS WEST-CREE Y\r\n  1 U+1528 CANADIAN SYLLABICS YI\r\n  1 U+1513 CANADIAN
    SYLLABICS SHO\r\n  1 U+14f6 CANADIAN SYLLABICS SWE\r\n  1 U+14f5 CANADIAN SYLLABICS
    SAA\r\n  1 U+14f2 CANADIAN SYLLABICS SOO\r\n  1 U+14dc CANADIAN SYLLABICS LWE\r\n
    \ 1 U+14ca CANADIAN SYLLABICS WEST-CREE NWE\r\n  1 U+14b9 CANADIAN SYLLABICS WEST-CREE
    MWAA\r\n  1 U+14a8 CANADIAN SYLLABICS MOO\r\n  1 U+148d CANADIAN SYLLABICS CO\r\n
    \ 1 U+1470 CANADIAN SYLLABICS KOO\r\n  1 U+1461 CANADIAN SYLLABICS TWA\r\n  1
    U+1447 CANADIAN SYLLABICS WEST-CREE PWAA\r\n  1 U+1439 CANADIAN SYLLABICS PAA\r\n</code>"
  created: '2005-08-25 07:20:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: jim sent me a sample of the partially completed font so that i could make
    a sample setting... it's attached to the initial message if anyone wants to see
    the font in question.
  created: '2005-08-25 15:47:24'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Hrant, Sii, Raph\r\n\r\nThank all of you for your suggestions. I have considered
    that it may be necessary to sit down with a piece of text and count the character
    frequency, and Raph has done that, for which I am grateful.\r\n\r\nI think I might
    do the same thing and take an average from his count and my own.\r\n\r\nI really
    do admire the tenacity of it originator, Rev James Evans, and this was my way
    of paying a small personal tribute to him and his just plain cussedness. He certainly
    got precious little help from his superiors.\r\n\r\nThank you all again, and I
    hope there will  be  further interest in this type.\r\n\r\nJim \r\n"
  created: '2005-08-25 16:03:46'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: Beautiful work. Have you considered letting someone do an authorized digital
    version? It would be an indescribably vast improvement over what's available now,
    both <a href="http://www.linguistsoftware.com/lcr.htm">commercial</a> and <a href="http://babel.uoregon.edu/yamada/fonts/cree.html">free</a>.
  created: '2005-08-25 17:07:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Finally, somebody is doing justice to a North American indigenous script.\r\nAll
    those existing line&circle designs are just plain pukey.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-25 17:30:31'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Raph, Hrant\r\n\r\nThanks for kind comments about the Cree.\r\n\r\nRaph I
    have done digital version of part of the Cree Syllabic: enough to get me to the
    pattern cutting stage. I did a lot of the fill-ins at the point that I was cutting
    the glyphs out of bristol board (Goudy's method). I could certainly fill out the
    characters as a digital font. \r\n\r\nRoss Mills has done a lot of  work with
    the Aboriginal bodies and has done one or more fonts for them. Maybe if I talk
    nice to him I can get some kind of key-cap layout. He can be a hard man to find.
    There are a lot of characters in the set: if I recall rightly, there are 125.
    Parking them on a key position would be easy enough if I knew where to get the
    information.\r\n\r\nThank you all for your interest in the project. it's much
    more than I expected. And thank you Paul for posting this for me.\r\n\r\nJim\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-25 23:03:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think Ross has been on vacation. The characters should all be Unicode,
    and standard keyboard drivers exist so all you really need to do is map the characters
    correctly in FontLab. \r\n\r\nYou could compare your font with Plantagenet supplied
    with Mac OSX as a sanity check.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 00:20:45'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Thanks, Sii.\r\n\r\nI'll try that.\r\n\r\nJim"
  created: '2005-08-26 16:41:11'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Jim, I noticed that the pattern of contrast in one or the other of each of
    your paired glyphs often partly or totally emulates or paraphrases what a writing
    of the Reverend James Evans's shapes with a broad-nibbed pen might produce, but
    in the other flipped member of the pair, you often flip the contrast as well.
    Sometimes the result is that the paired glyph 'violates' ductal logic. Meanwhile
    the dots reside somewhat in a world of their own. \r\n\r\nI am intrigued by all
    of this. And I don't want to imply that what you are doing with contrast is wrong.
    But what is the thinking behind this? How does this pattern of contrast manipulation
    play out in word- and text-length-contexts? Does this contrast flipping have a
    readability benefit or exact a cost?"
  created: '2005-08-26 17:54:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It could be that the combination of a desire not to waste time plus a healthy
    disrespect for \"ductal logic\" can indeed produce an instance of \"optimal design\".
    There are entire worlds out there besides geometry and chirography.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 19:14:50'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Peter Enneson: yes, I noticed that too. The syllabary has two major symmetry
    groups. One, which I'll call \"delta\", has an internal mirror symmetry, and appears
    in four orientations. For example, \"I\", which strongly resembles a Greek capital
    delta, becomes \"O\", \"E\", and \"A\" when turned to 3, 6, and 9 o'clock respectively.
    The other, which I'll call \"p\", has no mirror symmetry (in other words, is chiral),
    and appears in a total of eight orientations: the four compass points times two
    for the mirror flips. For example, \"KI\", which strongly resembles a \"p\", becomes
    \"NE\", \"KO\", and \"NA\" in the four clockwise rotations, and becomes \"KE\"
    in left-right mirror symmetry (resembling a \"q\"), which in turn becomes \"NO\",
    \"KA\", and \"NI\" in clockwise rotation.\r\n\r\nI see that Jim has taken great
    care to respect the ductal logic for the 90 degree rotations (\"O\" is beautifully
    different from a 90 degree rotation of \"I\"), but for the reflections, the implied
    angle of the pen also reflects. Note that 180 degree rotation leaves pen shape
    essentially invariant. \r\n\r\nWhen putting the sounds together with the shapes,
    though, I observed that the logic of the syllabary is organized around reflections,
    not rotations. KI becomes KE with a reflection around the vertical axis, and becomes
    KA with a reflection around the horizontal. It also becomes KO with a reflection
    around both axes (in either order), which is also equivalent to a 180 degree rotation.\r\n\r\nSo
    it may well be that the contrast flipping violates the ductal logic but at the
    same time respects the syllabic logic. Jim, did you ever sketch the other way
    round? If so, did literate Canadians find one odd and the other natural?\r\n\r\nJim
    [re digitization]: I'm not surprised to learn that you used a Bezier digital outline
    as an intermediate step. Several straight-curve transitions have the abrupt curvature
    shifts characteristic of Bezier outlines, including TE (resembling \"U\") at 3-4
    o'clock, and KI (resembling \"p\") at 5-6 o'clock, and at 9 o'clock.\r\n\r\nIf
    I were doing the digitization, I would be very tempted to release it as a free
    font. It seems to me that the most compelling argument against free fonts (that
    it takes away incentive for font designers to sell their work) doesn't really
    apply here - the pay-font market obviously isn't viable, or else somebody would
    have done a professional Cree digital font. (and btw, the font in the Unicode
    3 book, which I'm using to look up the sounds, is just as bad as the other samples
    I linked above)\r\n\r\nJim [re averaging of letter frequencies]: actually, I'm
    not convinced that averaging is the best way to go. What you really want to do
    is shoot for worst-case usage. For example, for the glyphs which have West-Cree
    variants (mostly a different dot position), just averaging texts from West and
    Moose variants will leave you with about half the frequency for both variants.
    If you were going to set a book page in West-Cree, though, you'd want 100% of
    the frequency for the West-Cree variant, and wouldn't be upset at all about their
    counterparts sitting idle in the case. Similarly, for a very infrequent glyph
    such as SHO, you want to be ready for a page in which it appears in someone's
    name.\r\n\r\nSi [re Unicode]: Yes, absolutely. A font like this wants to be encoded
    as Unicode, not in ASCII with a keyboard mapping.\r\n\r\nSorry if I've geeked
    out excessively here. It's kinda my nature."
  created: '2005-08-26 19:15:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> chiral\r\n\r\nHey, you sure you wanna use that?  ;-)\r\n\r\n> What you
    really want to do is shoot for worst-case usage.\r\n\r\nBut you also have to worry
    about casting so many sorts that will go unused. On the other hand, texts with
    divergent frequencies can leave you stuck... So here's an idea: take the square
    root of the frequencies as a guide.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 19:30:56'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Hrant and Raph\r\n\r\nThanks for your questions and very thorough alalysis
    of the calligraphy in the Cree.\r\n\r\nYou are right: there are arguments going
    on back and forth between the mirrored glyphs. I could say I did this to simply
    annoy you both, but the truth is I did the drawings quickly with a big juicy ad
    marker in my left-hand calligraphic way. The contradictions are because I was
    rushing as I often do and merely flipped some of the characters. In many cases
    I went back in and altered these on the 360 point printouts that I used to cut
    as paper patterns. Many of them were missed.\r\n\r\nI agree with you that if this
    is to be a digital font it needs to be brought into line, and I will certainly
    do that.\r\n\r\nThe one saving grace about it as a metal font is that the terminations
    are so small as to not jump out too loudly. Since I think that the metal type
    will very likely never see the light of day outside my own workshop, I am going
    to leave it as is. At least it is an honest if hurried effort to execute the face
    with some style instead of the straignt geometric renderings I have been used
    to. On the other hand, now that ouy have pointed it out to me, it may irritate
    me so much that I will have to go back in and recut about 40 characters. Thanks
    a lot, fellas!\r\n\r\nThe idea of making this variant of Cree available as a free
    font is a good one. I have made an offer to a font company as a gift with the
    thought in m ind that sales would likely be slight, and that it would be a nice
    gesture to offer it as a free font. I almost cringe at the thought of making money
    on the backs of a culture that has been roundly dumped on in history. I feel quite
    embarrassed at the sight of a white man carving a Haida or Kwaikutl totem pole,
    and I want to avoid the notion that I have pinched something from the native culture.\r\n\r\nIf
    the opportunity comes about to make metal type available to Aboriginal groups
    on a gratis basis I would be thrilled to do that, less of course the cost of typemetal
    which is getting hard to find.\r\n\r\nI have spent this morning fitting the glyphs
    to their set widths, working at the Thompson caster. The outside temperature is
    in the mid eighties and it got to be too much to handle, so I'm taking this break.\r\n\r\nWell
    I got off the subject again. Once more thank you for your input. I will alter
    the inconsistencies is my calligraphy when making the rest of the digital font.\r\n\r\nJim\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-08-26 20:54:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, a left-handed calligrapher. A probable source for that \"healthy disrespect\".\r\n\r\n>
    if this is to be a digital font it needs to be brought into line\r\n\r\nI would
    actually think twice about that. These indigenous peoples -who so often become
    weighed down by Western conventions- might at least be given some freedom and
    individuality in the structure of their script.\r\n\r\nJim, consider donating
    it to/through SIL:\r\nhttp://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&id=
    _\r\nI'd gladly put you in touch with Victor Gaultney.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-26 21:08:35'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nI may take you up on that reference. I need to wait a little
    and see what is happening with the contact I have made regarding the face.\r\n\r\nGood
    news for me: The bookdealer to whom I have sold the patterns has not taken them
    away yet so I went down to the foundry and looked them over. I was so close to
    the project I had forgotten how thorough I have been. It looks like I have made
    all of the sensible alterations with a the knife when cutting out the printouts.
    I missed three, I think, and I can recut the patterns and the three mats. The
    partial font that is shown on this thread does not show the changes, so it really
    is disconcerting. I often make changes with a the knife when cutting the patterns;
    stress of curve, terminations etc., since it is less work to do on the computer.
    . . and I like the sponteneity that comes from working in a loose manner. There
    are probably bad things about working this way, but it suits my imaptient nature.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again for your constructive comments and enthusiasm.\r\n\r\nJim \r\n\r\n  "
  created: '2005-08-26 21:51:49'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Raph, you say: \"[w]hen putting the sounds together with the shapes, though,
    I observed that the logic of the syllabary is organized around reflections, not
    rotations. \r\n\r\nCompare Robert Bringhurst's comment in <em>The Solid Form of
    Language</em>: \"In Canadian syllabics (the Cree and Inuktitut scripts, for instance),
    each basic symbol represents a consonant, and its <em>orientation</em> (facing
    up, down, left or right) signifies the vowel.\"\r\n\r\nBefore Jim's reply I too
    thought the contrast flipping might reflect another (perhaps syllabic) logic.
    And perhaps reflecting syllabic logic in a diversified contrast scripting deserves
    more consideration. I'm not sure how this could be organized or implemented. But
    I do wonder if freedom and individuality in the structures of the Cree or Inuktitut
    scripts might develop without an indigenous scribal tradition (as Bringhurst suggests).\r\n\r\nAlso,
    Hrant, remember that ductal logics also underly advanced non-western scripts."
  created: '2005-08-26 22:06:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Jim, I'll put you in touch with Ross via e-mail, and I look forward to coming
    out to the workshop to see the type when I am back in town for a longer period.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    ductus, this is indeed a tricky issue for the Evans syllabics not only because
    of the rotation vs. reversal conventions but also because of the rotating triangles,
    which if actually written with a broad nib produce six different stem weights
    unless you rotate the hand. The visual form of writing systems tend to reflect
    the tools with which they were first written. In the case of the Evans syllabics,
    there was no primary 'writing' tool (except in Noordzij's broad sense of writing):
    this is a script that began life as <em>type.</em> There has been no chirographic
    evolution of the writing system, so far as I can tell. The few handwritten texts
    I have seen in it have shown no aesthetic consciousness, and I'm not aware of
    any indigenous 'calligraphy'. The script is prized for its cultural uniqueness,
    as part of the identity of the user communities, but its expression is wholly
    utilitarian.\r\n\r\nWhen we white folk sit down with our calligraphic tradition
    to write the Evans syllabics, we pick up our broad nib pens because that is the
    tool we are most familiar with (at least since the early 20th century calligraphic
    revival). I did the same thing, when I started examining the Evans syllabics.
    But I'm not convinced that this is the best tool for writing these forms, and
    I think the evolution of the script, in both chirographic and type design terms,
    would benefit from much more experimentation with different tools (e.g. pointed
    brush) and with less fixed ductus (e.g. employing more rotation \xE0 la Noordzij's
    'mannerist' classification).\r\n\r\n\r\n[Martin, Si, the Cree and Cherokee writing
    systems are unrelated.]"
  created: '2005-08-30 19:07:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Martin, Si, the Cree and Cherokee writing systems are unrelated.]\r\n\r\nSorry,
    I thought Ross stuck the Cree glyphs in Plantagenet.\r\n\r\nSi \r\n"
  created: '2005-08-30 20:07:05'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Some larger questions / comments?\r\n\r\nWhy did Evans devise the syllabics?
    Was it a necessary invention because of the problems with representing indigenous
    speech sounds with existing alphabetic scripts? What are the sources for Evans'
    forms? Did he devise it as a notational system for use outside the typographical
    realm or only inside. Should / could he not have started with notational devices
    used in the pictogram tradition. Should his initiative have been more collaborative.
    Was his initiative pre-emptive. What is the meaning of indeginous in this context?
    Might studies of pictograph writing on buffalo robes and petroglyphs help us think
    through issues of shape?\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that without a writing tradition
    (where problems of construction / contrast get resolved together naturally with
    reference to readability and legibility all in one feed-forward / feed-backward
    loop over time) it's hard to know how to proceed in typographic terms. Perhaps
    this shows I am not a type-designer. In a way Jim's efforts--probably earlier
    efforts as well--raise the question of how to give shape to Evan's formal code.\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-30 22:24:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> without a writing tradition ... it\u2019s hard to\r\n> know how to proceed
    in typographic terms.\r\n\r\n?\r\nMaybe it's harder in that there's nothing to
    ape (albeit in the wrong medium - with some people not even caring about that),
    but in terms of making something Good it would in fact seem much easier.\r\n\r\nYes,
    it's easier to simply follow orders; but no, it's not \"real\" - it \"doesn't
    count\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-30 23:09:39'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "John\r\n\r\nWhen I did my key drawings for the Cree type, I held the \"calligraphic\"
    maker at a fixed angle and didn't manipulate the tool as I wrote each from. I
    discovered that this produces differing stroke widths. In my ignorance I like
    this and kept to it as I went through the many characters.\r\n\r\nI can't see
    anything terribly wrong with this approach. To me it seemed to parallel flat brushwork
    which is not unknown to the Coastal cultures. I am aware that I didn't take a
    terribly studied, analytical approach to my characters. I just did what felt good
    to me. In a the final outcome, I prefer the face to have some kind of movement
    and variation of stroke, much more than the handful of rigid geometric attempts
    I've seen to date. I'm aware that evans' approach in devising the characaters
    was of strict monoline stroke and geometric construction, but I believe he did
    this as a method of keeping this new language simple and uncluttered, and I am
    almost certain from my own experiences in typecutting that his specially ground
    tool gave him this consistent weight and line quality.\r\n\r\nI did make a couple
    of attempts at a present-day design over the past 20 years plus, but I kept coming
    back to this one.\r\n\r\nThanks for your comments. It's indeed nice to have more
    people than I had expected take an interest in the face. I'ver made a couple of
    tentative contacts to Aboriginal bodies; brobably the wrong ones, without any
    response.\r\n\r\nIn the end I don't expect to make a buck out of cutting this.
    It was simply a way of paying a small tribute to the determined Rev evans. I'd
    be pleased if sometime a group or individual in the Abriginal groups could get
    to cast this type for themselves and print some kind of text. With all the things
    governmants can think of to spend money on, it seems to me that a workshop could
    be set up to do the work.\r\n\r\nYou may recall that legendary BC printer Will
    Hudson was hired to teach the Inuit people to print up on Baffin Island. They
    produced at least one fine book. Maybe someday . . .\r\n\r\nJim "
  created: '2005-08-30 23:19:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Jim, regarding: \"[Evans] specially ground tool\"\r\n\r\nCan you go into
    a bit more detail about this. Sorry, I know next to nothing about Evans. Was this
    a writing implement or a tool he used to make his own type.\r\n\r\nHrant:\r\n\r\nSo
    how would you proceed?"
  created: '2005-08-31 00:37:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe like Jim? Something that makes sense. Not chirography. The comparison
    of which nicely fits a riddle a former co-worker once posed concerning the place
    we both worked at: What's the difference between FILL-IN-BLANK and a headless
    chicken? A headless chicken has a random chance of going in the right direction.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-31 01:44:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, so you wold hold the marker at a fixed angle, flip or rotate the results
    of each basic form to make templates for the other three in each set, 'correct'
    them on the fly when cutting them out, etc? \r\n\r\nI wanted to know how you might
    proceed if you didn't have Jim's precedant to build on. I wanted to know how you
    would proceed if you had to work from scratch, with only Evan's monoline versions
    to refer too. Would you stick with the monoline approach, would you intoduce,
    experiment with, develop a contrast scheme? In other words, would you develop
    a novel shape protocol?\r\n\r\nI think Jim's experiment is a very interesting
    one, and would still love to see how the glyphs we saw above and Jim's corrected
    glyphs work together in real text situations. I'm not at all convinced, as John
    intimated, that following fixed pen-orientation ductal logic across the board
    will produce a set of glyphs that click satisfactorily in real-text situations.
    That's why I asked about the thinking behind the 'norm violations\"\r\n\r\nMy
    assumption, following Douglas Hofstadter is that 'norm violations' are a key to
    evolution (of typefaces too). When they catch, because they are 'fit' they become
    conventions and become the platform for new norm violations."
  created: '2005-08-31 02:33:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I would incorporate features that I think add to the style and/or functionality
    of the end result. I would not use a \"marker\", not even paraphrase one. I would
    incorporate stroke contrast, and would be unlikely to do much mathematical transformation.
    I was once asked to make a glyph for an invented script, and here's what I came
    up with:\r\nhttp://themicrofoundry.com/other/shwah.gif\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-31 03:16:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: So you wouldn't proceed like Jim after all?
  created: '2005-08-31 03:56:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just said: \"Maybe like Jim?\" His method struck me as making sense on
    a certain level, of being self-confident (hence progressive) not servile.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-31 04:18:06'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Enne Son\r\n\r\nIt is difficult to describe evans' ground cutting tool, particulary
    becuase I have never seen it in the flesh. There is a replica engraving tool and
    replica sundry other tools that are to be seen in photogrpahs on the internet.
    If you start searching by typing in \"Norway House, Evans tools\", you will eventually
    come across the pictures.\r\n\r\nI can describe the cutting tool as being ground
    to the stroke width of the character. Unbelievably, evans simply cut his Glyphs
    into the end grain of hard oak wood (described by Robert Bringhurst as \"burr
    oak\"). Presumably since his matrices were carved with a single stroke to a prescribed
    near depth, this gave him a uniform width of line. \r\n\r\nThe photos go on to
    show that once he had cast lead into the resulting cavities of the wood, he then
    shaved the face of each piece of type level and to a consistant \"height to paper\".\r\n\r\nIt's
    my assumption that Evans achieved a uniform monoline becuase of the precision
    of the tool's width and becuase he was aiming for an absolute simplicity of form.
    This is of course only my theory.\r\n\r\nThose who have followed in making the
    face available to current typesetting systems have pretty much followed the general
    flavout of Evans' work, and that makes sense. I was merely taking a departure
    for personal reasons, and I may be completely mistaken in doing this, but I do
    like the crispness and precision of the way my metal version prints. The obvious
    disparity in line width when letterpressed at 14 point is not glaring, and I believe
    there is a pleasant, softer more personal look to the type set in words.\r\n\r\nAnyhow,
    it's done now, and that's my one shot at it.\r\n\r\nIf you can locate Robert Bringhurst
    (he has moved to yet another island, thsis time, Quadra) and I haven't been able
    to trak him down to thank him for the information he supplied me a couple of years
    back regarding character sets.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, I gather that when evans devised
    his language he got by by cutting only nine glyphs, which when rotated 90 degrees
    did for everything. With the addition of over-dotted and differing tribal character
    requirements, the character \"set\" that I cut had come out to 125; to my chagrin,
    a lot of patterns and matrices to cut!\r\n\r\nI'm sorry I can't direct anyone
    to the site with photos, but I am certain if I can stumble across it, you will
    find it.\r\n\r\nMany thanks\r\n\r\nJim"
  created: '2005-08-31 16:04:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter,\r\n\r\nRoss has compiled some very good information on the background
    to Evan's invention: http://www.tiro.com/syllabics/James_Evans/Evans_bio.html\r\n\r\nSee
    also http://www.tiro.com/syllabics/James_Evans/Rossville/Rossville.html, which
    gives a pretty good idea of the material circumstances of the invention if one
    ignores the propane torch.\r\n\r\nArguably, Evan's principle design goal was material
    and labour economy. Rotation allowed him to cut a single matrix for multiple syllables
    and even to use the same piece of type for different syllables. I don't think
    Evans had any pretensions to being a type designer: he wanted to print some prayers
    and hymns in Ojibway and, later, Cree translation, and determined to make his
    own type simply because he didn't have any other. It seems to me quite likely
    that if he had a font of Latin type at Norway House he would have devised a Latin
    orthography. He doesn't strike me as the sort of man who would make unnecessary
    work for himself if there were a simpler way to achieve his goal."
  created: '2005-09-01 05:33:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I think in the absence of the organic development of a writing system by
    being written by large numbers of people over a long period of time, developing
    criteria for 'well formed writing' that is not purely functional, it is very difficult
    to progress to the kind of diversity of type design we see today, including design
    that is not chirographically influenced. When people sit down -- as James Evans
    sat down -- to create new shapes for writing and reading, the tendency seems to
    be almost always towards simplified, geometric shapes. I think the chirographic
    evolution stage is important, because it is through the making and remaking of
    the shapes, at different size, with different implements, that one first begins
    to really understand the forms and then understands how to manipulate them and,
    eventually, how to deliver them from chirographic models.\r\n\r\nHrant thinks
    it should be easier to produce good type design without a writing tradition behind
    it. I'm casting about for an example to support this view, but I simply can't
    find one. Type design as a craft seems to exist only within cultures with a strong
    writing tradition. This is not to say that type design necessarily needs to 'ape'
    chirographic forms, but it strongly suggests that there is an evolutionary process
    that cannot easily be skipped."
  created: '2005-09-01 05:48:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Jim, I think the difficulty with the strongly contrasted, broadnib ductus
    applied to the Cree syllabics is that we don't have a good understanding of readability
    in this script. I'm concerned about the considerable variance in the weight of
    vertical or near vertical strokes, and considering that some combinations in text
    may produce areas of greater lightness or darkness, depending on the sequence
    of syllables, and that this may result in reduced legibility, especially when
    light strokes are adjacent. The ruggedness of the near-monoline, traditional forms
    avoid this problem, which is why Ross' designs, though modulated, have a low contrast.\r\n\r\nConsider,
    for example your U like form and its inverted variant. This convention of making
    the left vertical heavy and the right light is a typical typographic form for
    the Latin uppercase U. But the uppercase U is a very infrequent letter in almost
    all Latin-script languages: it typically occurs, like all uppercase letters, only
    at the beginning of words, and even then it is a relatively infrequent letter
    (more common in German than most other languages). So that fact that the right
    side of the U collapses visually, isn't a major legibility issue for the Latin
    script, but we shouldn't assume that because this convention works in the Latin
    script that it can be applied to Cree. How do Cree readers understand the visual
    identity of this syllable? What, to use Peter's term, is the role architecture
    of the verticals? If it is to bound a space, linked by a curved bow, then weakening
    one of the verticals may reduce legibility. I don't know what the answer to that
    question is. I don't think anyone else does either: as far as I know, very little
    study has been done of syllabic reading in general*, and I'm not aware of any
    studies of Cree or Inuktitut reading.\r\n\r\n\r\n* The obvious place to conduct
    studies on syllabic reading in general -- e.g. to compare and contrast with our
    developing understanding of alphabetic reading -- would be Ethiopia and Eritrea,
    where there are very large numbers of literate adults reading a syllabic script
    on a daily basis. Part of the problem with designing type for Cree is that relatively
    few people read it, and there are few texts published in the script; the situation
    is better for Inuktitut."
  created: '2005-09-01 06:10:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I simply can\u2019t find one.\r\n\r\nMaybe it simply hasn't been done right
    yet? Although Hangul is admirable in its lucid innovation. In any case, the past
    is never \"complete\" - relying on it for affirmation of what one should aim for
    in the future is death.\r\n\r\nA script that has arrived into our age with no\r\nhandwritten
    tradition is lucky, because it is free.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-01 06:35:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>A script that has arrived into our age with no handwritten tradition
    is lucky, because it is free.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd like most 'free' things it wanders
    arbitrarily without anchor, having no point of reference outside itself, essentially
    antisocial. You've spent too much time among the American individualists, Hrant.
    :)\r\n\r\nMuch of the richness of anything that humans make is in how it relates
    to other things that we make, how it becomes part of the fabric of culture, bound
    to the visual and aesthetic considerations that link creations in different media.
    Perhaps this will make more sense to you if I say that a script without a chirographic
    tradition is as handicapped as a script without a painting tradition or even a
    musical tradition. You see? I'm not saying that type design needs a chirographic
    model per se, but that it needs to be informed by something other than the whim
    of the type designer. On this, I think we agree theoretically at least. You want
    type design to reference an understanding of reading, rather than an understanding
    of writing. This sounds like a great plan, except for the fact that a) our understanding
    of reading as it relates to design is limited and b) what we do know doesn't suggest
    a prescriptive design agenda because we read comfortably across so many different
    scripts and styles. So I'm concerned that there isn't enough knowledge to anchor
    this reading-centric approach to type design, and it will simply be used to justify
    arbitrariness.\r\n\r\nThe Cree/Inuktitut syllabics are an interesting case of
    a script that is very important to its users in terms of 'identity politics',
    i.e. it is part of what makes its users culturally distinct from the dominant
    civilisation in this country. At the same time, though, it never seems to have
    been naturalised into the broader aesthetic cultures of the Cree and Inuit peoples.
    It is something apart from their art and craft, and has not yet found an aesthetic
    expression within those cultures."
  created: '2005-09-01 21:41:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it needs to be informed by something other than the whim of the type designer.\r\n\r\nWell
    of course. But please, not the wrong thing.\r\nLimited? Yes, always. But better
    than misguided.\r\n\r\n> The Cree/Inuktitut syllabics are an interesting case
    of a script\r\n> that is very important to its users in terms of \u2018identity
    politics\u2019\r\n\r\nWhich is another reason to make it cousciously different
    than Latin\r\ntype, which is 99% an admixture of chirography and constructivism.\r\n\r\nI
    might say that the main thing it shouldn't be, is Modernist.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-01 21:47:48'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Jim, thanks for the elaboration, and John, those links were very informative.\r\n\r\nJohn,
    I think you are probably right about the importance of contrast reduction in shapes
    such as those Evans gave us if we are to start with a dimensional vector model
    (broadpen-based) of how to shape the strokes. To some extent the Evans shapes
    are in an inbetween world between western minuscules and majuscules. And this
    inbetweeness has made its way into Jim's glyphs in the left and right stem characteristics
    of the U-type forms. So I'd say a dimensional vector approach has its pitfalls
    here, probably because it has not played a part in the formation of the role architecture
    of the characters. And it is probably not good to sustain it in any rigorous way
    accross theJim says, \"The obvious disparity in line width when letterpressed
    at 14 point is not glaring.\" I hope Jim will give us a peek at how these glyphs
    set in a real text context.\r\n\r\nI found it very interesting to see that Evans
    character set is recognizably descendant from the James Frere, Thomas Lucas, and
    Isaac Pitman efforts, which are essentially stenographic.\r\n\r\nIt is hard for
    me to see at the moment where perceptual processing issues come in. Because the
    system is syllabic, and at least origianlly aimed at pre-literate populations
    do readers ever come to  process entire groups of them as one perceptual unit
    the way we do with words?"
  created: '2005-09-01 22:18:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, I think you are absolutely right about this: \"what we do know doesn\u2019t
    suggest a prescriptive design agenda because we read comfortably across so many
    different scripts and styles.\" To your 'prescriptive,' I would want to add 'proscriptve.'
    I also think that what we know helps us understand why strategic construction,
    a well-motivated contrast sheme, and 'space craft' still matter. I also think
    that what we know about parafoveal pre-processing and cue-value should be kept
    within our sights and might move us in new directions. I doubt that you would
    contest this. But I say it because I want to emphasize that just because it's
    not prescriptive or proscriptve, that doesn't mean it's not relevant. \r\n\r\nAnd
    why shouldn't a Cree Modern be available alongside a Rimmer Cree? The group Kashtan
    appropriated a rock idiom to great effect.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-01 23:03:02'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Peter\r\n\r\nI'd like very much to be able to show on this forum Cree printed
    letterpress, but unfortunately I have no digital camera, scanners or zip with
    which to do that, not to mention I wouldn't know how to do it if I did have the
    stuff. I am however experienced with the use of the postage stamp and would be
    happy to mail you a proof, if you will give me your dirt address offline.\r\n\r\nAnd,
    hey, I thought my version WAS a modern! (joke)\r\n\r\nThanks for your interest.\r\n\r\nJim\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 00:39:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...do readers ever come to process entire groups of them as one perceptual
    unit the way we do with words?</em>\r\n\r\nAccording to the anecdotal evidence
    of one of Ross' main contacts in Nanavut, yes. This person is actually a non-Inuit
    who has learned the language and script. He notes that common sequences of syllabics
    are recognised as such: syllabic bouma shapes.* Of course, as we know, a person's
    description of how he reads doesn't necessarily conform to the reality of the
    optical and cognitive processes.\r\n\r\n* Actually, now I think about this, multi-glyph
    bouma shapes are potentially more useful in reading syllabic scripts than they
    are for reading English, since the spelling is much more consistent and the correlation
    to spoken language much more regular and precise. This means that any repeating
    sequence of two or more glyphs will always correspond to exactly the same sounds,
    allowing variation for stress and emphasis of course.\r\n\r\n\r\nSome of these
    thoughts are informed by my work on Ethiopic, a syllabic script that I know better
    than Cree/Inuktitut (Ross is the one who has done a lot of work for North American
    aboriginal languages). Interestingly, surviving examples of the south semitic
    Sabaean script from which the Ethiopic or Ge'ez script is evolved are very geometric,
    regular and sometimes monoline. This is no doubt partly due to the fact that almost
    all surviving texts are stone inscriptions; the Sabaeans presumably had a less
    rigid, more informal style for other kinds of writing. But if you compare the
    richness and relative variety of the long and glorious Ethiopic manuscript tradition
    to the absence of such a tradition in the Cree and Inuktitut you can see how the
    organic evolution of a writing system <em>through writing</em> is productive of
    new ideas and styles. Maybe we should give the Cree and Inuit another couple of
    thousand years with their script and see what they come up with."
  created: '2005-09-02 02:57:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A bouma is as large as three things in combination allow: reader experience;
    form distictiveness (a compound of silhouette divergence, crispness, etc.); and
    semantic context. The blank space is indeed not an unbreachable wall.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 04:46:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "re: evolution of a writing system <em>through writing</em>\r\n\r\nSee Gerrit
    Noordzij's <em>Letterletter</em> page 157. (The arrows are missing--they should
    proceed from item 1 in the lower register to item 1 in the upper register, then
    back down to item 2 in the lower register, then up, then down, etc.). Also see
    <em>The stroke of the pen</em> page 48."
  created: '2005-09-02 22:17:33'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>standard keyboard drivers exist</em>\r\n\r\ncan you point me at these,
    sii?"
  created: '2006-02-07 16:06:13'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Paul\r\n\r\nYou may be able to get some help from John Hudson on the layout.
    I know his partner Ross Mills has a lot of experience with the Syllabics.\r\n\r\nJim[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-02-07 16:43:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: I'm checking on the keyboard drivers. We don't ship one, but I should be able
    to track one down. I'm checking with the the keyboard gurus here.
  created: '2006-02-07 18:48:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "In the interim... http://www.wats.ca/resources/unifiedcanadianaboriginalsyllabics/36
    \r\n\r\nmight be helpful\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-02-07 19:05:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: for those of you interested, we are nearing the completion of this project.
    Jim and I have been working together on the font and there is now a full set of
    characters covering the Canadian Syllabics Unicode block. If anyone wants to beta
    test the font and provide feedback, please contact me at paul(a)p22,com.
  created: '2006-03-16 14:46:38'
date: '2005-08-25 00:00:30'
title: Need Help with Cree Font

---
