---
author:
  name: Dan Weaver
body: 'The news just announced that the National Guard is being sent into New Orleans
  to evacuate it for the next two months. So all the displaced residents will need
  the help of organizations like the Red Cross. Would it be a good idea for the Typographic
  community to make a relief glyph font to be sold to raise money for an organization
  like the Red Cross? Fortunately all the New York radio stations are doing public
  service announcements appealling for donations of time or money to the Red Cross.
  Any Thoughts?  '
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If there's an organization dedicated to improve\r\nUS city planning, we should
    help them instead...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-08-31 22:55:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Hrant, Its an amazingly poorly planned city, but this is an emergency. The
    comparison was made to an earth quake in San Francisco. You probably could give
    the date. This is a human tragedy.
  created: '2005-08-31 22:57:46'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Yes, it is tragic and yes Louisiana needs a better solution in the immediate
    and long term...\r\n\r\nI would be curious to ask Jim or Tamye how much of an
    impact they've made with the previous <a href=\"http://www.typesociety.org/fontaid.html\">FontAid</a>
    programs."
  created: '2005-09-01 05:30:52'
- author:
    name: tamye
    picture: 110562
  body: "While Font Aid and Building Letters cannot make a giant impact in comparison
    to overall disaster relief efforts, that should never stop us from doing what
    we can. As of tonight, the Font Aid III effort has raised over $17,600 to benefit
    the victims of the Southeast Asian tsunami and floods. This figure is from sales
    of the collaborative \"Fleurons of Hope\" font and the donated proceeds from sales
    of specific fonts from a group of MyFonts foundries earlier in the year.\r\n\r\n\"Building
    Letters,\" Jim Richardson's side of the project, is not yet available, and I don't
    have a release date at this moment. But when BL does go on sale, it will certainly
    raise more money for the cause.\r\n\r\nThe Font Aid II September 11 font raised
    more than $5,000 in 2001-2002. I am not privy to the results of the inaugural
    Font Aid sales, as the project was under designer Claes K\xE4llarsson's direction
    at that time (he originated the first Font Aid to assist war and disaster refugees).\r\n\r\nIf
    you haven't done so already, license your copy of Fleurons of Hope, please! Not
    only does every cent of the selling price go to a good cause, it's a beautiful
    font and a heartfelt gift from the international type and design community who
    worked together to create it.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontaid/fleurons-of-hope/\r\n\r\nAnd
    thanks again to all who have contributed their time, creativity, and cash to help
    others.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-01 07:13:13'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'The latest on New Orleans. It seems it is like its like the wild, wild west
    down there with geniuses taking gun shots at the very relief helicopters coming
    to give them aid or evacuate them. There were people screeming for food and water
    outside the Super Dome and they can only evacuate about 25,000 people per day.
    There is a fear of Typhoid and other deseases carried in the sewage flood waters.
    If you can help do so! '
  created: '2005-09-01 21:59:17'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "Okay, this is a human tragedy and I'm supposed to buy some stupid font. Riiiight.\r\n\r\n(You
    asked for thoughts.)"
  created: '2005-09-02 03:45:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sergej, different people are motivated to donate money via different \"triggers\".
    Buying a font (hopefully one that isn't stupid) is a natural trigger in this context.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 04:38:58'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "What boggles me is how poorly the administration is handling this situation.
    They knew exactly when and where this disaster would hit, yet the relief efforts
    are utterly inadequate and give the impression the USA are some third world country.\r\n\r\nI
    guess this is what happens when budgets that are sorely needed for maintenance
    and reparations of dam infrastructure get rerouted to some inane \"War on Terror\",
    and when most of your military force that could help domestically are abroad trying
    to force a deluded vision of a new world order down the throat of foreign countries.\r\n\r\nThis
    whole situation is very upsetting, and I feel sorry for the people of New Orleans
    and neighbouring areas. They don't deserve this farce of an administration (although
    it's quite possible most of them voted it into power)."
  created: '2005-09-02 08:35:56'
- author:
    name: robsayshowdy
  body: "I couldn't more completely agree with Yves. This is insane. As a Journalist,
    I'm reading all these stories from collegues and hearing all the tales and my
    mind just keeps going back to the reasons why America is supposed to be so great.
    Our citizens are so great. Our political infrastructure is so great. Where is
    all that now? Congress passes a $10B AID bill. Great, wonderful, but why wasn't
    the National Guard all over the area the next day? Because they're all off training
    for Iraq. I have several friends in the National Guard. They are just now leaving
    to drop supplies. Drop supplies from 10,000 ft. I cannot fathom what it's like
    to be down there on the streets. It will be interesting to see how this develops.\r\n\r\nPoliticians
    for you: <a href=\"http://movies.crooksandliars.com/Anderson-Cooper-Landrieu-Katrina.mov\">
    click here.</a>"
  created: '2005-09-02 10:56:30'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I agree. And we don't have much national gaurd left because no one wants to
    get shipped off to a resource war. All these mistakes are compounding as the dollar
    drops in value. Seems as though we drift into the perfect storm drunk on cheap
    gas and Jesus while living on borrowed money. This is one national hangover I'm
    not looking forward to.
  created: '2005-09-02 11:55:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The dykes weren't strong enough.\r\nBut will even Holland's defences be sufficient,
    the rate climate change is proceeding?\r\nIf the democratic governments were prudent
    about the security of their countries against environmental threat, they would
    be legislating draconian measures to wean us off the carbon economy. \r\n\r\nBut
    the democratic system isn't working in Canada and the UK (two countries I'm familiar
    with). Sure, the scientists have done their job, identifying the problem of global
    warming, and the media has done its job, publicizing it, and citizen activists
    have done their job, forming Green parties with comprehensive platforms and running
    a sufficient number of candidates to form a government, if voted for.\r\n\r\nCitizens
    have the option to vote Green, but they don't. Most people want larger cars, bigger
    houses, air miles, food miles, and flat-panel TV screens, ASAP, and they feel
    pride in buying, owning, and consuming this CO2 generating stuff, not shame. Citizens
    consider the security of their material possessions, and their own safety, as
    social problems, not environmental ones, so they'll vote for right-wing and neo-liberal
    law-and-order parties, not greens who would curtail their indulgencies. \r\n\r\nGreens
    should change their strategy from \"Do the right thing\" to \"Only we can protect
    you and your property from violent assault and destruction\"."
  created: '2005-09-02 13:11:40'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Yes its good to point out the problems and point fingers, but, do it after
    supporting relief efforts of the people most effected NOW! I can tell you it isn''t
    the rich either, they evacuated days before, these people couldn''t evacuate,
    they are leaving most of them walking, why because they couldn''t afford a car
    and there isn''t mass transit like in NYC. '
  created: '2005-09-02 13:28:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The failure of the levies is a failure of democracy, as Nick says. Winston
    Churchill said that 'democracy is the worst system of government except for all
    the others that have been tried.' \r\n\r\nInvesting in the levies was not glamorous,
    and no monied constituency or large voting block was hollering for it. So the
    Presidents and congresses did not fund strengthening the levies, in spite of the
    fact that for thirty years the engineers were warning disaster and begging for
    funds to do the job they knew was necessary. Of course, we might have had responsible
    leadership, but we didn't. "
  created: '2005-09-02 14:21:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: I can see, (from the fact that many of you don't know what you're talking
    about), that you watch the news :-|. If you are unfamiliar with the entire history
    of this tragedy, from the centuries old devil-may-care altitude that founded New
    Orleans, to the MANDATORY evacuation ahead of the storm...call 1-800-HELP-NOW
    if you want to, but I don't think finger pointing, (even at you;), will help.
  created: '2005-09-02 15:27:47'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Well, the news is all we have, don't we? ;-) I try to get my information
    from a couple of different sources, hoping that my point of view won't be too
    one-sided.\r\n\r\nMandatory evacuation might be a little more difficult for the
    poor and disenfranchised, and those are the ones that are stuck in a toxic pool
    of chemicals, waste and dead bodies.\r\n\r\nStill, just 2 days in Bush says that
    the police should stop trying to save and rescue, and to concentrate on looters.
    David (Earls, not Berlow ;-) wrote something about \"dedicated to those who value
    life over production\" in the back of our booklet. Nuff said."
  created: '2005-09-02 15:51:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is happening for one simple reason: the trapped people are poor, and\r\nand
    the system treats them as collateral. In fact, fewer people on welfare\r\nafter
    this, they figure.\r\n\r\n> the democratic system isn\u2019t working in Canada
    and the UK\r\n\r\nDemocracy is inherently unworkable.\r\nIts main function has
    become a covert operative for Capitalism.\r\nVoting is for peons.\r\n\r\nDavid:
    the trick is not to listen to US news.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: descender
      picture: 110959
    body: Oh now Hrant, don't be so cynical. Its main function is and always was as
      a covert operative for the rich/powerful in general. ;)
    created: '2005-09-02 16:48:14'
  created: '2005-09-02 16:04:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> the democratic system isn\u2019t working in Canada and the UK\r\n\r\nI
    meant in so far as dealing with climate change, and getting greens in power. It
    works very well in many other aspects, but unfortunately none of them are ultimately
    as significant as the future of weather. "
  created: '2005-09-02 16:55:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I don\u2019t think finger pointing... will help.\r\n\r\nMy hope that we
    will in future spend money based more on need and less on politics my be foolish,
    but I think it is important to recognize that the government messed up big time
    by ignoring the repeated warnings from technical people that an avoidable tragedy
    was in the making. \r\n\r\nIf journalists had the priority of reporting on these
    warnings, and listening to the technical people who know what they are talking
    about, something might also happen. But journalists label such people 'wonks'
    and 'nerds' and don't pay attention to them until the dam breaks...\r\n\r\nBut
    at this point, I agree, give money.  "
  created: '2005-09-02 17:14:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The government did exactly what it thought was needed, and I doubt\r\nany
    regret is registering. The larger the entity, the more that's true.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 17:27:31'
- author:
    name: cchs
    picture: 110574
  body: http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm?ContentAlias=reliefeffort
  created: '2005-09-02 19:27:20'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Listen, the point isn't weither democracy works, the point isn't weither the
    Bush adminstration blew it, the point is trying to save the disinfranchiced who
    will die if action isn't taken. A chemical refinerary blast occured this morning
    and in alot of those cities have wooden buildings. The cities will burn down and
    desease will provail. And you have to note this is a K storm before September
    (I never remembered a K storm having occured this early if ever) and there are
    at least 2 major storms building in the Atlantic. There are 2 months of major
    hurrican storms possible.
  created: '2005-09-02 22:01:55'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Help should definitely be given. The problem is, where is it going, and how
    can it be guaranteed that it is truly going to the most needy people? I think
    people should be angry, there should be finger pointing, it certainly wakes people
    up to some prevailing issues here in America that have been constantly ignored.
  created: '2005-09-03 01:54:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Still, just 2 days in...\" counting is that hard? \r\n\" the trapped people
    are poor, and and the system treats them as collateral\"\r\nEnough Hot air, thanks
    : ) Hey y'all... ever seen a 3rd world country with 10,000, mostly middle class
    white volunteer emergency workers stressed to the max, but still going back out
    to save and supply more people? Could anyone in the world evacuate 40,000 patients
    from the hospitals of a drowned city? Put finger in mouth, bite hard and wait
    for the congressional report. :) 1-800-help-now.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-03 13:50:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Doing things like Fleurons of Hope raises some money for those in need and
    becomes a visual reminder that we should do better next time. It also aids in
    that powerless feeling we can succumb to. Private action is no guarantee that
    whatever powers that be will take leadership in doing better though. People have
    to take it on themselves to \"do better\" but my understanding is that thousands
    of people went to the Gulf area to volunteer to help but were turned away by authorities
    because they just didn't know what to do with the volunteers. I don't know of
    any country with any form of government that has a great track record in handling
    major catastrophes. Sometimes we are just humbled by mother nature and we lose
    a bit of our misplaced sense of power and control. We each have to contribute
    in whatever way we can to help those in great need right now. After the Gulf victims
    have been returned to some meager semblance of life, we can raise hell with the
    powers that be (after all, Bush did cut his 5 week vacation a couple of days short
    to buzz the Gulf area and let us know it was a disaster down there).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-03 21:49:04'
- author:
    name: Martin LAllier
    picture: 110634
  body: "Will sound hard and maybe cynical but... when the irresponsible and dangerous
    US government decide to invest it's massive financial ressources in the development
    of it's people and of greener energies instead of it's army, then maybe giving
    money to help will be relevant. \r\n\r\nAnd, if I remember, US is not a third
    world country. Many more people die each day in \u201Cdevelopping countries\u201D
    than will die in the whole Katrina crisis. Think about that too.\r\n\r\nMaking
    a font to gather a few thousand. Comon, let's be serious. Just write a check.
    Do we absolutely need some gizmo in return?"
  created: '2005-09-04 00:43:59'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "If you give to the Red Cross, that'll help the Red Cross, and that's great.
    I am starting to think, though, that nothing will help the poor people in New
    Orleans if the government wants them dead. There are armed guards on the bridge,
    telling anyone who tries to leave New Orleans on foot that they're not allowed
    to go. They're also keeping the Red Cross out of the city.\r\n\r\nBut, you know
    what, in the big picture, there is something that creative people can do, and
    how much money it raises, if any, is ancillary. Make something in memory of a
    city that had some of the most unique, vibrant, and above all <em>artistic</em>
    history in the United States, to help keep alive what it gave us and make people
    remember where it came from."
  created: '2005-09-04 02:30:40'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: 'George Bush causes any and all problems. ? '
  created: '2005-09-04 05:33:28'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Well, not him personally, as he obviously is a mere hand-puppet. No one believes
    he is actually running the country, innit? :-)\r\n\r\nI've watched the news on
    CNN (pro-administration), BBC and Holland (European supporters of the USA), and
    Belgium (very critical of the Bush administration). The opinions were unanimous,
    and let's say they were not exactly in favour of how the administration is handling
    this situation.\r\n\r\nAgreed, it is an arduous task evacuating tens of thousands
    people out of a drowned city, but at day five you could expect <em>some</em> help
    to have reached the victims. I've seen harrowing images, and if you'll alow me
    to be very cynical here, I haven't noticed any \"middle class white\" <em>victims</em>.
    Kudos to the people helping out relentlessly -- and I'm certainly not attacking
    them -- but the people stranded there are indeed all African Americans, Hispanics,
    elderly, sick and poor, the ones that obviously couldn't get out by themselves
    or didn't have anywhere to go to. :-("
  created: '2005-09-04 13:15:57'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "People in the US expect too much, they expect everything in ten minutes or
    less. It is expected that the governement will take care of each and every person
    in need and nobody has to do anything for themself. When things aren't 'quick
    enough' fingers just start pointing.\r\n\r\nWhat about Tulane? They hired their
    own security force and private helicopters. When the storm was upon them, they
    deployed the force and evacuated all the students and faculty to safety. Now they're
    rescuing the people from the hospital next door.\r\n\r\nDid anyone watch the weather?
    Evacuate the area when it looks like hell is breaking loose, there were 4 nurses
    from a hospital who just left and walked from New Orleans to Baton Rouge ON FOOT
    because they knew it was time to leave. If you have nowhere to go...then I guess
    you deal with the consequences, after all you chose to live in a city on the coast
    where you dig two feet down and there's water.\r\n\r\nSnap your fingers and demand
    help all you will but, you know what...most of this is volunteer work. The troops
    have to be summoned....meaning they must call each individual reservist and ask
    if they will help...some might not be able to, others might. Then all supplies
    must be put together and ships/airplanes loaded and manned before anyhting can
    start to happen. And finally they must make the trip from around the country to
    New Orleans area for relief. When you're living in an area barraged by hurricane
    after hurricane each year you must take that risk or be NAIVE to think that nothing
    will happen. Don't sit on your porch and watch it come raining down on you, thinking
    'i'm ok, the government will save me' Do something, in the end everyone is responsible
    for themselves. I guess I don't have much sympathy, because I'm not sympathetic
    to a lot of the American population and the way they think. You know what though....Bush
    was voted in and that's the end of the story. Bash on him all you want, but seriously
    it's not going to do a single thing.\r\n\r\nDon't even know if it's worth posting,
    there's a thread like this in just about every forum and everyone's just pointing
    fingers as well.\r\n\r\n\r\nBack on topic, I think any kind of relief effort would
    be nice if you'd like to take your time to do so. Volunteering is the ultimate
    defense to finger pointing."
  created: '2005-09-05 03:01:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Your opinions are one thing (and I see them as apologism for dog-eat-dog
    Capitalism) but characterizing Americans as people who expect their government
    to do everything for them is the opposite of the truth. In no other first-world
    country do people tend to take the responsability of personal failure in life
    on their own shoulders, ignoring the fact that so many other governments do so
    much more to help the less fortunate (damn shame that leaves them with less money
    to build fancy bombs and spend 1 billion dollars on <strong>not</strong> fixing
    a foam problem on a trophy space program). And in no other country that I know
    of do people not expect much from their government because they think that's the
    way it should be; in countries where people expect to be ignored by their government
    it's because they <strong>admit</strong> their government sucks... Italy for example
    has a crappy government too (and it's not about Bush or Berlusconi, the whole
    systems are bribery-infested profit-taking whorehouses) but the fact that they
    realize it puts them that much closer to one day possibly overcoming it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-05 03:30:11'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Interpret them as you will, everyone else expressed their own so I figured
    I'd express mine. I could care less if you agree or don't. I'm not arguing with
    you. I see it a certain way and in the end don't really care, because I'm looking
    out for myself and the people I love or am close to.
  created: '2005-09-05 03:51:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, we each strike some balance between satisfying our own desires versus
    serving the needs of society (local and global). The point is that the particular
    balance you seem to be advocating, and the balance encouraged -more like enforced-
    by the current zeitgeist in the US (and its most formal state, the US government)
    is simply not sustainable. At best, it's wishful thinking; at worst, it's criminal.
    And really, the absolute very least you should do is expect people to complain
    about the rape, murder and theft. When you act like you're actually doing them
    a favor or something, that only increases their resolve to defeat you, or at least
    to slap you awake from your drunken pillaging.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-05 04:13:52'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Fair enough, I guess I have a bigger problem with people trying to convince
    me of certain 'facts' when they have no idea what they're talking about. I'm not
    really all that interested in politics, but in this case I've just been irritated
    to the point by people that I had to say something (nobody here, more people in
    my real life interactions). I guess what I'm getting at is the speed at which
    people expect things to happen is unrealistic. I'm not trying to say that people
    shouldn't be helped. I believe that things are being done as fast as possible,
    I know a reserve soldier who has been in the process of shipping out since the
    hurricane, but as I said it takes time. He won't actually leave for another day
    or two because of logistics, not because they're screwing around or don't care.
  created: '2005-09-05 04:50:20'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I think the Bush administration caused the Hurricane so they could send in
    the military so their popularity polls would go up for saving so many people.
  created: '2005-09-05 07:38:45'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'The latest figures have upwards to 20,000 dead. '
  created: '2005-09-05 11:48:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"you chose to live in a city on the coast where you dig two feet down and
    there\u2019s water.\"\r\nactually it's not on a \"coast\", and when the French
    started digging they found recently buried trees, and topsoil...You don't find
    water when you dig in a delta, it finds you if you stay long enough. \r\n\r\n\"I
    think the Bush administration caused the Hurricane so they could send in the military\"\r\n:-)
    you think big, like f15s and b52s flying in rapid circles, herding and corralling
    a 400 mile wide behemoth to the perfect spot, brilliant, you're hired. \r\n\r\nIt
    looks like there \"could\" have been a misrepresented levee survey and then \"they\"
    just waited, while budgets were cut and the gulf loop changed to hot. But knowing
    N' Owlins', we will never make the connection between that survey and the beneficiaries.
    Nev'r.\r\n\r\n\" I haven\u2019t noticed any \u201Cmiddle class white\u201D victims\"\r\nNearly
    every scene has middle class white victims either in front of or behind the camera,
    or they've gone off right away to look for more survivors...please adjust you
    brain-eye connection, you can practice this by seeing the white space in and around
    type. :)"
  created: '2005-09-05 14:01:05'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "A resource for those in the creatve industry recently displaced by the on-going
    situation in New Orleans and the surrounding region...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.displaceddesigner.com/"
  created: '2005-09-06 07:31:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I've been pondering the response to the disaster in Louisiana.\r\n\r\nI think
    there is an understandable amazement among many people, both within the USA and
    abroad, that the <em>the world's only superpower</em> seems so woefully unprepared
    for this disaster at both the local and national levels. David is quite right
    to point out that now the relief and rescue effort is actually under way some
    remarkable things are being achieved -- things that many other countries would
    not be be able to achieve --, but it is reasonable to ask why it took so long.
    And there is a perfectly reasonable expectation that the <em>richest nation on
    the planet</em> should be able to handle this situation much better than it has:
    there is no shortage of material resources, so inevitably it looks like a massive
    political failure.\r\n\r\nWhen millions of people around the world made donations
    to help the victims of the South Asian tsunami, it was with the knowledge that
    most of the countries affected were desperately poor by comparison to the western
    industrialised nations, and that there were neither the material resources nor
    infrastructure to provide adequate relief without massive international assistance.
    Quite simply, no one expected the governments of those countries to be able to
    cope, especially since the effect of the tsunami was so wide spread and the death
    toll so high. While the tragedy of what is happening in New Orleans and surrounding
    areas is terrible -- I've made a donation to the American Red Cross, which seems
    the most direct means to support the immediate relief effort* --, it is localised
    and taking place against a backdrop of a country with a per capita GDP more than
    ten times larger than that of most of the nations affected by the tsunami. The
    USA should be able to help itself. Rather than wondering whether or not Americans
    expect too much or too little from their government, anyone might reasonably ask
    what the heck any government is supposed to be for if not to help its own citizens
    at such times?\r\n\r\nI'm glad to be able to make personal donations to organisations
    like the Red Cross, but such private charitable assistance doesn't let governments
    off the hook for caring for their citizens.\r\n___\r\n\r\n* http://www.redcross.org/donate/donate.html"
  created: '2005-09-07 03:25:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'John you are right about the US SHOULD be able to help without aid. The reality
    is the US government will allocate more money to purchase one F15 jet fighter
    than to lift a finger to help the poor. My thinking is the relief effort led by
    the government is to get the oil refineries back up and running. For this reason
    its even more important that we support organizations that actually get the help
    to those who need it. The Red Cross for one. '
  created: '2005-09-07 12:36:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Paul Krugman put it very well in the New York Times a couple of days ago:\r\n\r\n<em>...the
    federal government's lethal ineptitude ... was a consequence of ideological hostility
    to the very idea of using government to serve the public good. For 25 years the
    right has been denigrating the public sector, telling us that government is always
    the problem, not the solution. Why should we be surprised that when we needed
    a government solution, it wasn't forthcoming?</em>\r\n\r\nIdeologically driven
    decisions, whether left or right -- whether Stalinist collectivised agriculture
    or capitalist failure to invest in public infrastructure --, tend to kill large
    numbers of people."
  created: '2005-09-07 19:41:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Krugman's observation is on target, but there is another important factor,
    which is that our current President is one of the most incompetent screw-ups in
    American history. This is beginning to dawn even on Republicans, way too late.
    :(
  created: '2005-09-07 20:16:28'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: If any of you happen to know how to control air traffic without electrical
    power, the FAA would like to talk to you.
  created: '2005-09-07 20:19:47'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Now the geniuses in the CDC have released data that even when the flood waters
    go down the combination of sewage and dead bodies will contaminate most of the
    buildings (if not all) making them uninhabitable, ever. Basicly they have to let
    it burn down and start over. Also all the water pumped back into the lake (name?)
    is full of the toxic contaminates released including a huge amount of lead. So
    the lake is being poisoned as well. '
  created: '2005-09-07 22:08:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they have to let it burn down\r\n\r\nThere are people who would love to
    take care of that.\r\nBut I think they'd require the inhabitants back in first.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-07 22:19:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Krugman\u2019s observation is on target, but there is another important
    factor, which is that our current President is one of the most incompetent screw-ups
    in American history.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I actually edited the opening of Krugman's
    first sentence when I quoted it because I wanted to focus on his point regarding
    the ideological factors. He actually wrote: <em>But the federal government's lethal
    ineptitude wasn't just a consequence of Mr. Bush's personal inadequacy; it was
    a consequence of ideological hostility...</em>.\r\n\r\nThe two, of course, go
    hand in hand. Krugman goes on to discuss Bush's appointment of Joseph Allbaugh
    as head of the Federal Emergency Management Agency (inappropriately subsumed under
    the Dept. of Homeland Security, as if every emergency were going to be a terrorist
    attack). Allbaugh is one of Bush's political cronies, whose main activity after
    taking over FEMA was to scale back its preparedness programs in order to cut costs.
    Allbaugh was succeeded in the post by Michael Brown, whose only qualification
    for the job seems to be having been Allbaugh's college roommate. He lost his previous
    job organising horse shows.\r\n\r\nSince the policy is to undermine effective
    government in favour of the private sector, ineptitude in public office actually
    becomes a kind of strategy."
  created: '2005-09-07 22:40:33'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Now there is an "O" storm in the Carribean headed (they think) for Florida
    and Alabama. That is what Katrina was supposed to do too. What I''m afraid of,
    as we send relief to stricken Lousianna, another letter storm comes and batters
    an area where the National Guard has weakened itself with the relief efford. This
    is like a evil natural chess game. What if this "O" storm turns out to be an Andrew
    the federal government will be reeling for the rest of the members terms. '
  created: '2005-09-07 22:54:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ineptitude in public office actually becomes a kind of strategy.\r\n\r\nIndeed.
    That's why those who blame individuals are either being ignorant or have a hidden
    agenda. Which however doesn't mean that people who refuse to blame individuals
    are necessarily any better - in fact usually they're worse.\r\n\r\nAnd more importantly:
    if the two farm animals we're supposed to choose between have ineptitude as a
    feature, what does that say about Democracy?\r\n\r\n> the National Guard has weakened
    itself\r\n\r\nhttp://www.theonion.com/content/node/40305\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-07 22:55:14'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I think one of the most interesting developments is this quote from within
    the Bush family by none other than dear old \"Barb\":\r\n\r\n\"And so many of
    the people in the arena here, you know, were underprivileged anyway, so this is
    working very well for them.\"\r\n\r\nThis statement to me, is part of the underlying
    problem that has yet to be addressed. She says this statement as if she really
    doesn't get it, and as if she is totally unconnected. Part of the larger problem
    as John Hudson and others have pointed out are years of issues that have continued
    to pile up over the years. \r\n\r\nThe issue that this comment speaks to is the
    fact that 30-40% of the population of New Orleans was already poverty striken.
    For the wealthiest industrialized nation in the world (and one of the largest
    cities in the United States) that statistic is INEXCUSABLE. \r\n\r\nWe live in
    a country where many cities are divided by poverty and race. This particularly
    gets my goat because my hometown of Cincinnati, Ohio (a very segregated city)
    socio-economic standing is almost literally Black and White. \r\n\r\nThe survival
    of the fittest attitudes I've seen expressed I often find naive and dismissive.
    You'll find very few people who have actually gone hungry share this viewpoint.
    My point is this: no one wants to be poor, and when there is such a disproportionate
    number of people who are in an allegedly wealthy nation, its time to access what
    the problem is. \r\n\r\nFirst and foremost we are human beings, the government
    and politicians need to start reflecting that. This isn't just the problem of
    the citizens of the Gulf, its everyone's problem. If you think this isn't your
    problem, then you're part of it. "
  created: '2005-09-07 23:44:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...what does that say about Democracy?</em>\r\n\r\nThat it is corruptible
    -- but then so are other systems of government --, and that it reflects the social,
    economic and cultural mores of the society (as it did in classical Athens, republican
    Rome, and has on the Isle of Man for some 1,200 years). In other words, having
    a democracy does not automatically produce a majority population of well informed
    and civil minded democrats. If many of the cultural forces in your country are
    running counter to that end, you can't expect your democracy to function very
    well. The necessary relationship between effective democracy and the institutions
    of society that are needed to inculcate democratic social values should be obvious.
    Indeed, they are obvious, which is why they are deliberately targeted by forces
    that wish to undermine or exert control over the democratic process. The problems
    of democracy in the USA are the problems of a system that is not strong enough
    to counter the interests of capital, and unfortunately the US constitution seems
    to have been designed to put institutional brakes on democratic development, so
    US democracy is ill equiped to respond to the much more dynamic forces of wealth
    and power that have developed in that country."
  created: '2005-09-08 01:57:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> having a democracy does not automatically produce a majority\r\n> population
    of well informed and civil minded democrats.\r\n\r\nThe thing is, nothing does.
    Which is why relying on that\r\nis dumb. Correction: not dumb, but Good For Business.\r\n\r\n>
    The problems of democracy in the USA ...\r\n\r\n... are the problems that are
    being exported\r\nfaster than truly civilized people can tame it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-08 02:16:35'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Has this been linked yet?\r\n\r\nWilliam Drenttel, Design Observer\r\nKatrina:
    Designer News & Resources Notice\r\nhttp://www.designobserver.com/archives/005977.html#more"
  created: '2005-09-08 07:10:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More evidence that, no matter how good or bad a country is, voting is dumb:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/programmes/from_our_own_correspondent/4223148.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-08 17:04:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">More evidence\r\n\r\nReally, Hrant, your bizarre interpretation of evidence
    amazes me. Norway is one of the few countries with oil wealth who have not squandered
    it, and they are democratic. I believe that every single undemocratic oil county
    has obscene inequality of income, with the government hoarding the wealth. This
    includes Saudi Arabia, which is an undemocratic monarchy, a form of government
    beloved by you.\r\n\r\nSo you think democracy has nothing to do with the fact
    that Norway and Britian have been more responsible with their oil wealth?\r\n\r\nThe
    evidence is clear that the governments which are most cruel and \"indecent\" and
    oppressive to their people are undemocratic.\r\n\r\nAs I wrote above, the failure
    to defend New Orleans against flooding is a failure of democracy. Democracy is
    very far from a cure-all, and full of failures. But without it governments are
    much worse. \r\n"
  created: '2005-09-08 17:25:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Let them eat cake\" is even royally dumber. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-08 17:26:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I attribute Norway's success to other things (like being out of the way).
    To me the key thing in that story isn't that Norway is successful (bunches of
    democratic countries are not*, and many non-democratic countries are doing much
    better) it's that success does not alleviate the idiocy of Democracy. Everything
    is really great there, but people are still voting for change. Britain, I consider
    a failing state, and historically responsible for much of the current misery on
    this planet. It is not remotely a good example for the world.\r\n\r\n* Think of
    your apartheid homeland for one.\r\n\r\nYou know what's bizarre? That people refuse
    to admit that the world\r\nis going to hell faster than it ever did, at the hands
    of Democracy.\r\n\r\n\"Let them eat cake\"? Oh yes, \"give them pizza and give
    them Nintendo\r\nwars and they'll just keep getting fatter and dumber\" is much
    better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-08 17:40:54'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "Regarding the poverty rate in the US:\r\n\r\nWhen I was in college, my German
    professor spoke of a German colleague who said she was amazed the first time she
    saw a homeless person sleeping on the street of an American city. In Germany,
    this would not happen. The authorities would take that person somewhere where
    they would be taken care of. (So she said at the time. It sounds accurate, cos
    I've never seen a homeless person in Germany.)\r\n\r\nIn the US, local government
    officials generally cannot arrest someone without suspicion of a crime being committed.
    A person cannot be institutionalized without being a danger to himself or others.
    Simply muttering to oneself and living in disarray is not enough to force a person
    to get help. In other Western nations, it is. Homeless advocates in the US routinely
    defend the \"freedom\" of the homeless to do as they wish as long as there is
    no violent or property crime. And that is the order of things here.\r\n\r\nFreedom
    still trumps security... sadly, freedom without a personal sense of responsibility
    can and will destroy what's left of our culture from within: drugs, illegitimacy,
    domestic violence, pederasty, and the television programs, movies and popular
    music that celebrate and glamorize them. Why would anyone willing to walk out
    on the very child he conceived give a crap about some stranger's house being flooded?\r\n\r\nThere
    is also much more religious and private charity in the US in proportion to government
    services when compared with other nations, and these private charities are generally
    vastly more efficient in their spending. They can spend less and still help more
    people. Other countries are better at using government to solve these problems.
    (Er, except unemployment.) My theory is that the more homogeneous a culture, the
    more effective its government programs can be. American culture is vastly fragmented
    (a fact generally ignored by self-annointed cultural critics who think we all
    watch Oprah and NASCAR) and seems to be getting moreso. That's unavoidable in
    a country this size. Whether that means privatization or moving more power back
    to states I'll let someone else argue.\r\n\r\nPlenty of specific individuals are
    responsible for the failures both after and (more importantly) before the hurricane.
    Again, I'll let others argue who they are and in what order. In the meantime,
    many of us have some checks to write."
  created: '2005-09-08 18:07:25'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "There seems to be a void of leadership in the New Orleans crisis. Leaders
    locally were looking for the lead from Washington and FEMA is being run by lawyers
    not known to act quickly. Mayor Bloomberg chimmed in that if an emergency like
    a huricane hit NYC he would force an evacuation immediately even if the police
    had to go house to house. He sites the law that allows the police to take the
    homeless off the streets when the temperature goes below 32\xBA. People don't
    always act in their best self interests. I don't think this tragedy has anything
    to do with the form of government, there are lousy leaders in all forms of governments.."
  created: '2005-09-08 20:59:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More evidence that voting does not work:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/4247158.stm\r\n\r\nAs
    far as I'm concerned, we tried Democracy, and it didn't work. Plus it makes perfect
    sense why/that it didn't. Give it up, people - for the sake of your grandchildren.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-15 01:31:01'
- author:
    name: Martin LAllier
    picture: 110634
  body: "Hrant, is the fault lying in democracy or with political systems parading
    \xABas democracy\xBB?\r\n\r\nUSA, like many other countries, seem to have gotten
    rid of a royalty only to replace it later with a post-bourgeoisie host of business
    lobies. Democracy in it's pure form is the \xABpower to the people\xBB, not \xABthe
    people to the powerful\xBB.\r\n\r\nThe fault is only manifest in the system because
    it's lead by immature people. Men and women who are in part there to help and
    in part because they crave power and social status. Any system can fail under
    that. Anything, will fail or only partly succeed in these conditions (a political
    system, a project, a business, a relationship, ... a life).\r\n\r\nBut, maybe
    we should stick to our topic of choice... typography?"
  created: '2005-09-15 04:20:04'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: aaaaaaa m e n .
  created: '2005-09-15 17:34:39'
date: '2005-08-31 22:45:12'
node_type: forum
title: New Orleans

---
