---
author:
  name: Will Miller
  picture: 109722
body: "i just read chapter 28 of [[Anatomy of a Typeface]] last night...the chapter
  dealing with [[Optima]] and the Humanist san serif faces....it was really sad. at
  least the end of the chapter was very sad where they cite H. Zapf's response to
  seeing Dwiggins' attempt at an idea of a humanist san serif nearly like Zapf's Optima.
  what hit home was the little picture of him sitting in a chair outside drawing.
  smoking a pipe.\r\n\r\nWho says typography is all technicalities...\r\n\r\nw|m"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Something quite interesting in that chapter (if my memory serves) is the
    implication that Optima's characteristic extasis* was in fact a result of fighting
    technical limitations! Pretty much dilutes any possible \"genius\" element in
    it...\r\n\r\n* Opposite of entasis; coined by Cynthia Batty (when she was still
    Hollandsworth).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-01 16:16:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Legato shows extasis - no?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-01 16:26:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">nearly like Zapf\u2019s Optima\r\n\r\nTo my eyes, Dwiggens's interesting
    effort at a humanist sans bears little resemblance to Optima, other than the fact
    that it uses greater thick-thin contrast than in the past with sans serifs--and
    in the manner of seriffed fonts. That is the only 'anticipation'. Dwiggens's caps
    are not shown in 'Anatomy', so there may be more resemblance with them. The caps
    of Stellar light, which 'Anatomy' reproduces, have classical proportions and look
    more like Optima's caps (without the tapered waist); Zapf was probably familiar
    with these.\r\n\r\nThe lower case of Dwiggens, which is shown in 'Anatomy' is
    narrow, whereas Optima is wide; the thick-thin contrast of the joins of the bowls
    and branches to the stems is much greater than the gentle modulation of Optima.
    And there are little suggestions of serifs on some of the strokes, but not the
    tapered waist that is characteristic of Optima, and whose sources in the 16th
    century and antiquity Zapf acknowledges. \r\n\r\nThe way the tapered waist, gentle
    modulation and wide lower case goes together has an unforgettable unity and harmony
    of form that marks a great typeface and a unique creation.    \r\n\r\nHrant, I
    don't see anything in 'Anatomy' about technical limitations being responsible
    for the tapered-waist sans; the inspiration was from the classical and antiquity
    sources. The brilliant handling of the idea and the creation of the lower case
    is Zapf's genius at work.  \r\n"
  created: '2005-09-01 17:10:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a great typeface and a unique creation.\r\n\r\nWith quite poor readability,
    even for a sans; too wide, too gray.\r\nA distinctly superior effort in that genre
    is Pascal - sadly still\r\nnot digitized, although it's in the capable hands of
    Neufville.\r\n\r\nAs for the thing about the technical fight, I guess I'd have\r\nto
    spend time finding it, but maybe Will -having just read\r\nthe chapter- could
    find it faster?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-01 17:24:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">poor readability, even for a sans; too wide, too gray\r\n\r\nOptima is great,
    but a bit of a 'diva'. As the thread on matching serifs with it brought out, it
    is difficult to match, except with Zapf's own faces. In smaller text the regular
    weight is too grey, but 'Optima Nova' seems to have corrected that. My feeling
    is that its circular bowls in the lower case militate against it working well
    in smaller text, or large amounts of text. But among sans it is more readable
    than grotesques, though less so than the newer humanist sans. \r\n\r\nIts limitations
    are real, but so is its greatness.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-01 18:48:54'
- author:
    name: Will Miller
    picture: 109722
  body: "Anatomy states \"...the curved lines of the stems of each letter result from
    technical considerations fo type manufacturing rather than purely esthetic considerations.\"\r\n\r\nas
    for the Optima capitals: \"The capitals of Optima...follow the proportions of
    the Trajan Column inscriptions...\"\r\n\r\nw|m"
  created: '2005-09-02 14:53:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">curved stems\r\n\r\nI have seen somewhere in a longer account of the development
    of Optima a photo of the models that Zapf says inspired Optima, and they do have
    tapered stems. The inspiration for the idea of tapers was not technical but aesthetic,
    based on ancient models. Zapf means in that quote, I think, that the drawing of
    the taper was constrained by the demands of production of metal type. Some of
    the curves in Optima Nova have been changed--perhaps he wanted to do this in the
    first place, but couldn't because of the demands of metal type. \r\n "
  created: '2005-09-02 15:42:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think Anatomy is more correct than William.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 15:57:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">more correct than William\r\n\r\nAnatomy's quote of Zapf is accurate, I
    believe. What is incorrect is your interpretation of it. \r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/6-1808-6/optimanova.html\">Here</a>
    is a  photocopy of the bank notes on which Zapf first drew the letters he saw
    in the Santa Croce church. He had no other paper and was so excited that he drew
    on the bank notes! You will see that the tapers are there. This was obviously
    before he drew his own version, Optima, and before he discussed manufacturing
    problems with the punchcutter and then with Linotype. \r\n\r\nThis is consistent
    with my reading of the quote, above, and refutes your view that the tapers in
    Optima--and more generally its beauty--is a result of technical limitations.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, I noticed in looking at the Linotype site that the 'condensed' version
    of Optima Nova just kills the beauty of Optima--so the wide lower case is an essential
    part of the look of the original. \r\n\r\nAddition: here in the attached PDF article
    on the linked site is more on the technical limitations and their role:\r\n\r\n\u201COne
    distinctive design feature that gives Optima much of its elegance is the slight
    curve of the character strokes. While shaping this subtlety in fonts for hot metal
    and photocomposition was somewhat problematic, other characteristics Zapf intended
    for the original display design had to be dramatically compromised because of
    the technical limitations of text typesetting equipment. In Optima nova all of
    the letterforms have been reshaped as Zapf initially intended.\u201D\r\n\r\nThe
    article goes on to talk about the problem of the 18 unit system and spacing problems.
    \r\n    \r\n "
  created: '2005-09-02 16:18:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't see how I'm misinterpreting that quote - it seems pretty straightforward.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the sketches, I would note that: it's actually quite hard to get a solid rectangular
    stem when quickly sketching; and as every type designer knows the end-results
    (and all the iterations in between) are rarely very similar to the initial effort.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, I do suspect that the bowing <strong>became</strong> an aesthetic device
    once Zapf and company realized its appeal. This type of thing also being a characteristic
    of type development.\r\n\r\n> the wide lower case is an essential part of the
    look of the original.\r\n\r\nSure. But it's also bad for reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 16:31:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">it\u2019s actually quite hard to get a solid rectangular stem \r\n\r\nGive
    it up, Hrant, you are just dead wrong about the taper being the *result* of technical
    limitations. The drawings on the notes disprove your reading. The idea that Zapf
    would have problems drawing a rectangular stem is laughable. He is one of the
    world's greatest masters in drawing letters, and in calligraphy. (For an example
    of his calligraphy see the square below my name.) \r\n\r\nNotice that on one side
    of the bank note are the Caps from the church. On the other side, below he is
    already drawing Optima, with the lower case. And drawn very well, some close to
    the final. \r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 16:39:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I'd disagree that the taper was a technical issue. \r\n\r\nI'd also add that
    Optima Condensed seems wrong to me. A nice idea to enlarge the family, but I don't
    think Optima should be condensed. Similar to the horrible idea of Trajan condensed.
    Just sad."
  created: '2005-09-02 16:41:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, you wrote \"I don\u2019t see anything in \u2018Anatomy\u2019 about technical
    limitations being responsible for the tapered-waist sans\", and you were shown
    to be wrong. Now you're flailing post-rationalizations. But really, my view about
    the genesis of the bowing is actually more moderate and tentative than that quote
    asserts! For one thing, it's possible Zapf was just spinning a story there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 16:45:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">you were shown to be wrong\r\n\r\nOnly if one assumes that you could not
    possibly misunderstand the 'Anatomy' quote, which in fact you do. The evidence
    I have cited shows clearly that Zapf drew the tapers long before he had discussions
    of the technical problems of production. The correct reading of the quote is not
    that he invented the tapers because of technical limitations, but rather that
    he couldn't draw the tapers exactly as he wanted because of technical limitations.
    \r\n\r\nYour response to the clear evidence I cite is that Zapf must have been
    sloppy in drawing! This, given how excited he was about that letters he saw, and
    that he is a master of drawing letters, is ridiculous. \r\n\r\nAs the evidence
    is here, I will just leave it for others to judge.  "
  created: '2005-09-02 17:03:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> he couldn\u2019t draw the tapers exactly as\r\n> he wanted because of technical
    limitations.\r\n\r\nYes, that correlates perfectly with \"the curved lines of
    the stems of\r\neach letter <strong>result</strong> from technical considerations\".
    If you're from Mars.\r\n\r\nBut again, I'm not saying it was 100% one way or another
    (I'm a big believer in Gray anyway). On the other hand there clearly is something
    fishy in the compound of Zapf's statements and actions, and that's certainly not
    my doing.\r\n\r\nAnd something else: I detect a measure of anger at the suggestion
    that technique had a role to play and it wasn't just Zapf's creative/expressive
    genius at play. But a true craftsman sees technical issues as part of the beauty
    of Design, in fact exponentially more beautiful that mere pretty formal shapes.
    Zapf himself is a big believer in technique. And maybe that caused him to post-rationalize
    the genesis of the bowing in a certain direction?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 17:16:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Dwiggens\u2019s caps are not shown in \u2018Anatomy\u2019, so there may
    be more resemblance with them.</em>\r\n\r\ni was able to look at what exists of
    dwiggin's experimental sans at [[RIT|RIT's]] Cary Collection. I don't think that
    there ever were any caps drawn... FYI."
  created: '2005-09-02 17:20:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "By 'the curved lines of the stems of each letter result from technical considerations'
    Zapf meant that the way the curves were drawn was influenced by technical considerations,
    not that the concept of making tapered stems came from technical considerations--that
    come from the Santa Croce letters, as the drawing shows. Your reading is possible,
    but it just isn't right, given the evidence. Both the drawing and the quotes above
    support my reading, not yours.  \r\n\r\n>measure of anger at the suggestion that
    technique had a role to play\r\n\r\nI agree that technical constraints are key
    in the design process. You are criticising some straw man, not me.  "
  created: '2005-09-02 17:27:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Zapf meant that\r\n\r\nYes, I'm sure you're him.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 17:30:05'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Will, \r\n\r\nYou might also find interesting a test or experiment Matthew
    Carter did in the 60's in which he started with a nice renaissance roman and removed
    the serifs, to see what could be done. He was not at all happy with the immediate
    result, but continued redrawing it until an interesting, and more modern alphabet
    resulted. I saw this project mentioned in The monograph for the show \"Typographically
    Speaking: The Art of Matthew Carter\", from Princeton Architectural Press. \r\n\r\nI
    saw Mr. Carter at TypeCon and mentioned this project, and he surprisingly didn't
    remember it. It seems to be an interesting idea that can be approached many ways,
    and has been approached by several designers. Gudrun Zapf von Hesse made a similar
    type (Christiana) with more angled stress than Optima. It might be interesting
    to thoroughly trace the interest in this kind of modulated sans, or serifless
    roman. How to classify them is another endless thread.\r\n\r\nI'm working on a
    design for a serifless roman for text, which I hope to be able to preview here
    in the next few months. "
  created: '2005-09-02 19:22:51'
- author:
    name: Will Miller
    picture: 109722
  body: "carl,\r\n\r\nwas this book the one you saw Matthew Carter's project mentioned
    in?\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/1568984278/103-6183903-7975042?v=glance\r\n\r\nthe
    project does sound interesting, or at least the idea has merit as a jumping point.
    i'd be interested to read more about this and look forward to seeing your serifless
    roman\r\n\r\nw|m"
  created: '2005-09-02 22:56:26'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: That's the book. An excellent value at the Amazon price!
  created: '2005-09-02 23:33:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Stellar (1929) is not a well-known face, and as a result Optima (1958), which
    follows in its footsteps, gets a certain amount of credit for innovative design
    which perhaps belongs to Stellar.\r\n\r\nHermann Zapf was, as the publicity says,
    inspired by Renaissance stone-carved lettering, but I assume that he, August Rosenberger,
    and others at Linotype would have been aware of Stellar, learned from it, and
    positioned the design of Optima accordingly. \r\n\r\nThe classical, humanist quality
    of Stellar's regular weight is not so well conveyed in its bold, and it lacks
    an italic. (This lack of range may well have accounted for its obscure status.)
    So Optima, with its clever sloped roman \"italic\", and full, well matched family,
    has proved a far more useful typeface in a wide variety of situations.\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 23:47:59'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Can any of the type scholars hereabouts give a \"creation date\" of Wolpe's
    Albertus as compared to Zapf's Optima? I have always thought there were a lot
    of similarities between those\u2026\r\n\r\nAlso to consider is the fact that calligraphy
    done with a reed pen has a lot of the characteristics of Optima etal. And the
    reed pen being one of the oldest writing utensils (feel free to add your own conclusions)
    \u2026\r\n\r\nAnd on another note: I have always understood that the digital version
    of Optima was uncomparable with the lead version. And that the recent Optima Next's
    intention intended to \"repair\" those differences. Does this mean that L'Oreal
    (and not to mention 80% of all pharma companies) will update all their packaging
    and advertising (and where do I apply for that job?)? ;-)"
  created: '2005-09-04 00:44:32'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/28/albertus-family.html?PHPSESSID=c58964cec735acc00b63f5c164cb8cb8\">This</a>
    from the Linotype site gives a date of 1932-40, the technique of cutting bronze
    relief letters seems to have influenced the design. I can see your point about
    the similarities and the crossing of classical seriffed with a sans serif seems
    to have inspired both. I like Albertus capitals that have been recently used for
    some road signs in London (especially around <a href=\"http://www.typemuseum.org/museum.htm\">the
    Type Museum</a>, which holds a lot of Wolpe's library, incidentally).\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-09-04 10:55:16'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: Speaking of Wolpe's legacy. I very much admire his <strong>Pegasus</strong>.
    I have almost no information on that design, and saw only a couple of examples
    of its use in print. Can anyone on this list help? Any links, showings and/or
    references would be appreciated.
  created: '2005-09-04 15:10:09'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I have a copy of \"Berthold Wolpe, A Retrospective Survey\" and in it is
    a sample of the 16 point Pegasus in a setting of Genesis. If this is of interest
    to you Maxim, I'll arrange to get you a copy.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2005-09-04 15:24:22'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "> <em>If this is of interest to you</em>\r\n\r\nThanks in advance, James."
  created: '2005-09-04 15:39:48'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Bert,\r\n\r\nWe released versions of four of the original weights of Albertus
    plus added two weights during the mid 1980s while I was at Agfa-Compugraphic (now
    Monotype Imaging).\r\n\r\nHere is part of the copy I pulled together for the specimen
    release:\r\n\r\n<em>The early 1930s commemorative plaques of calligrapher and
    type designer Berthold Wolpe were highly regarded. These bronze inscriptions with
    their hard-angled, chiseled type were noticed with interest by the publishing
    world. As a result, Wolpe was soon commissioned</em> [by Stanley Morison, Monotype]
    <em>to produce an all capital letter typeface for book titling based upon his
    bronze works. By 1940, the family was expanded to include four complete faces.</em>\r\n\r\nHere
    is a link to <a href=http://www.linotype.com/7-291-7-12182/albertus.html\">Wolpe's
    own description</a> of the development of Albertus.\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-04 16:16:53'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Thanks Norbert,\r\n\r\nI'm gonna crosslink that with the info in the Optima
    Type Specimen I have lying somewhere around, but my guts tell me that Herman Z
    was pulling air raid duties in the Hitler Jugend at the time Berthold W was working
    on the typeface family.\r\n\r\nSo who was influenced by who(m)?\r\n\r\nBTW. There's
    just one reason why I watch all those Law & Order series\u2026 And off course
    my full first name is Albertus. (Germanic: He who gives light \u2014 but I need
    a flashlight!)"
  created: '2005-09-05 23:44:34'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: Then of course you know that Norbert means <em>bright light in the north</em>
    or northern light. Guess us "berts" need sunglasses in order to look at each other.
  created: '2005-09-06 03:57:30'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'An odd coincidence: In the same monograph I mention above, there is a showing
    of a version of Pegasus that Carter worked on in 1982 for Linotype. The original
    was done by Wolpe in 1937. Pegasus is a very interesting design; it looks very
    exciting for display, and possibly also quite nice in text. Delightful figures.
    For true utility, certain letters might be candidates for Hrant''s remix challenge,
    however. '
  created: '2005-09-06 17:45:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So where can we see this winged wonder?\r\nA scan, please? \"Fair use\" and
    all that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-06 17:49:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Carl, as you are working on a roman with flairs instead of serifs, and I believe
    you were intending it for signage, you might also be interested in looking at
    <a href="http://vllg.com/TypeInitiative/Arrival/mudTyper+Weights/">Keith Tam's
    Arrival</a>, if you haven't already.
  created: '2005-09-06 17:55:30'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Thanks, William,\r\n\r\nI have seen Arrival, in various iterations, before
    it Arrived at the Village. \r\n\r\nI'm actually not working on that design. It
    was more of a sketch of what I feel is a direction for a high-legibility signage
    face; a suggestion for reducing ambiguity. \r\n\r\nI will try to get a picture
    of the Pegasus; I'm a little frazzled this week. "
  created: '2005-09-06 18:29:57'
date: '2005-09-01 13:35:14'
node_type: forum
title: Chapter 28 - Optima....

---
