---
author:
  name: Norbert Florendo
  picture: 110725
body: "Because we had a recent hiccup in Forum accessibility, I browsed the topic
  areas (I generally link to '<a href=\"http://typophile.com/tracker\">tracker</a>')
  to note any topics that requested response and had \"0\" (zero, naught, nada) replies.\r\n\r\nI
  was thinking back to a former member who became indignant and \"<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/14249\">terminated
  his membership</a>\" from Typophile because no one replied to his request for critique.
  (Please, I don't want to open old wounds, I'm just looking forward.)\r\n\r\nI think
  members who frequent the Forum should try and be aware of any direct requests for
  assistance or critique older than two to three days. I know we can't have the answers
  to everyone's questions, but at least one member should make an attempt or at least
  acknowledge the post.\r\n\r\nI think it's a courtesy to those who are willing to
  become members and post topics or questions. Besides, it's good for Karma.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
  I'm old, but I'm a softy too!"
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You have a good point! \r\n\r\nBut... Sometime a question doesn't deserve
    a response. This doesn't happen much but I thought I would quibble. \r\n\r\nAlso,
    sometime nobody has a clue what the answer is & it isn't a matter of clarification
    being needed. I'll ask for clarification sometimes. And then there is a response.
    \r\n\r\nSometimes the subject just isn't interesting to folks around here. That
    seems fair. \r\n\r\nSometimes the heading is so vague as to make me unwilling
    to take the time. \r\n\r\nSo I agree but with some caveats. Ah! - and the bliss
    of being responded to is yours! \r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2005-09-01 22:01:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Eben is right when people post requests about type IDs without reading the
    FAQ. I think Yves hair is the way it is because of that.
  created: '2005-09-01 22:06:38'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\n> Agree, sometimes (but few) a topic doesn't deserve a response\r\n&#160;
    &#160; -- Reply: <em>Cripes! You don't deserve a response!</em>\r\n> Agree, sometimes
    someone asks for clarification\r\n&#160; &#160; -- Reply: <em>What the hell are
    you asking for!</em>\r\n> Agree, sometimes there is absolutely no interest in
    the topic\r\n&#160; &#160; -- Reply: <em>Dude, this is really lame.</em>\r\n>
    Agree, sometime the headings are too vague to evoke interest\r\n&#160; &#160;
    -- Reply: (none, zero, nada)\r\n\r\nI leave it to Forum members follow up on requests
    or not.\r\n\r\n------------------------------\r\nYes, I'm old, but I hear you!"
  created: '2005-09-01 22:50:49'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Actually, I think the new functionality of displaying the number of reads
    of any given thread is a vast improvement in that respect. For the Type Identification
    Board for example this means that even if there hasn't been a reply yet, the poster
    can see by the number of reads how many people have visited the thread and at
    least taken a look at the posted sample.
  created: '2005-09-01 23:02:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yves, Thats a great point!\r\n\r\nNorbert. Really I was agreeing with you
    in general. I do think it's a tad unrealistic to think that we will all feel that
    we must responnd to all posts or something. But I don't think that's what your
    suggesting exactly. You just want us to be on the look out for orphaned threads
    right?\r\n\r\n> Cripes! You don\u2019t deserve a response! etc.\r\n\r\nCripes?
    That's wonderful! I haven't seen that in a long time. But the rest is a bit heavy
    handed - no? Anyway I'll take it with a grain of salt..."
  created: '2005-09-02 03:15:37'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: Yup. Just be on the lookout. There's no real need to respond to absolutely
    everyone... Jimminy Cricket, gosh-darn it!
  created: '2005-09-02 03:55:53'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Is there a way to be updated via email of posts to a thread that one has
    already posted on? I was loving that back in the 'old days', it was much easier
    to participate in a discussion that way. \r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\nYes,
    I\u2019m young but soon I'll be out of fashion!"
  created: '2005-09-02 04:51:37'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Last thing I heard e-mail notification might come back to the Type Identification
    Board were it's sorely needed -- I mean, when was the last one minute ID!? :-D\r\n\r\nRSS
    functionality for the rest of Typophile will get upgraded in order to notify of
    new posts within threads."
  created: '2005-09-02 08:41:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I mean, when was the last one minute ID!? :-D</em>\r\n< brag > I'm sure
    i had a couple last week < /brag >\r\n\r\nand if email gets instated for type
    ID, i want it for the crit section as well!!!\r\n\r\n...okay, <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/14830\">i
    guess it was two mins</a>, drat!"
  created: '2005-09-02 09:22:13'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: :-P
  created: '2005-09-02 10:52:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Revive email delivery for <strong>everything</strong> please!!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-02 15:54:13'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: Talk to the people in charge. I'm just the guy keeping the Type ID Board clean.
    :-P
  created: '2005-09-04 13:21:50'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Norbert\r\n\r\nOne of the problems for me in responding is that I can't get
    into the site most of the time. I just get Document Done and there is nothing
    on the screen. Plus this bouncing around nonsense, even as I type, just pisses
    me off. I didn't think Typophile was broke before the switchover. Sure is now.
    An old saying in the US, \"if it ain't broke, don't fix it.\" I suppose I'm supposed
    to post this in the proper forum. Which I would if I could.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-09-06 04:58:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Gerald, what OS do you use? What Browser?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-06 15:55:03'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Eben\r\n\r\nI'm back, and I see nothing has changed.\r\n\r\nIn regard to
    your question, why should it matter?\r\n\r\nI was talking to a fellow a little
    while back, well known for several books on logos and typography, well respected
    and with a lot to offer, and he lameted how backward he felt in regard to the
    net because he just couldn't keep up with the unnecessary software changes.\r\n\r\nDude,
    yeah, let's impress the kids. They've got so much to friggin contribute. Hey,
    I really cannot in anyway say that this beta has anything more to offer than the
    previous Typophile. In fact, it has far less to offer, and it, quick frankly,
    doesn't friggin work for shit.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-09-09 08:04:08'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: What about the wiki? That's got a lot to offer. And of course, the new typophile's
    got bugs. But the old typophile went down A LOT. And when it was down, it went
    down for days. They new typophile has only really been "down" once since the relaunch  (for
    a whole weekend sadly, a few weeks ago).
  created: '2005-09-09 09:34:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Without a functional equivalent to the old emailed posts, the\r\nnew Typophile
    is indeed less useful overall. With it, it will rock.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-09 15:29:02'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Dan\r\n\r\nThis is pretty cool. There is no type showing up in the box as
    I type.\r\n\r\nBut I have figured out that I can see it if I preview and correct.\r\n\r\nAt
    any rate, I've always thought that wiki's were just \"bad\" information that folks
    tend to accept as \"good\" information.\r\n\r\nIf that is the whole point of the
    beta, at the expense of the previous features, there sure isn't much to offer
    here. Especially since you cannot effectively tract messages any longer. I thought
    that was pretty cool.\r\n\r\nI keep hearing when \"it gets fixed\" everything
    will be so fine. How long has this beta been up? Isn't beta usually pre-public
    release?\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-10 04:04:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Gerald, the reason I asked what browser you were using is that it can make
    a difference. A big difference.\r\n\r\nIs it a pain to have to update stuff all
    the time? sure! I hate it too. But if you want to be on the internet you have
    to realize that standards change. Or you could not use it. It's up to you. I have
    one hint for you: Firefox.\r\n\r\nThe wiki is cool & if you think it's got bad
    info - go in & correct it!\r\n\r\nAnd as regards the new typophile - it is better
    in some ways & worse in others. But tracking Your Threads is *easy now*. You just
    have to look for the link when you first come in. I would like the links I use
    the most to be at the top & bottom of every page. I need to load 2 pages to get
    where I want to go as it is. With links to recent posts & my posts on everypage
    I would not need to do that. I would like the option to have a thread be a long
    page instead on breaking it into 2+ pages too. Still, I am happy Typophile is
    here. It blows the pants off lists.\r\n\r\n I understand your being frustrated
    by tech - but now it's time to grow up & act like a big boy. Either play nice
    and stop throwing feces or get sent to your room.\r\n\r\nHrant - the RSS is not
    cutting it for you? You are using that right? If so, what is missing? I stated
    to use RSS but I didn't like my reader & I haven't gotten another one yet so I
    admit being in the dark on that a bit."
  created: '2005-09-10 17:13:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The RSS currently only alerts you to new threads. Basically, it's useless
    (unless you're extremely selective about what you read on Typophile).\r\n\r\nI've
    been using the Tracker, which is quite wasteful in terms of the overhead of repeatedly
    navigating over stuff you've already seen (and not being able to bypass certain
    sections, like ID in my case), but for now it's the only way to not miss anything
    [unwittingly].\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-10 17:31:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Right. It's new threads- Oh, maybe you want the Rss to tell you if you have
    a new response to *your* threads or to tagged threads or something like that?\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-10 17:34:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I want to see all the posts (except in certain sections),\r\nand choose what
    not to read. The old system allowed that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-10 17:38:06'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Oh, I see - so if it isn't a brand new thread it isn't listed on the RSS.
    Or put another way - new posts to existing threads don't show up on the RSS. I
    get it. ( unless thats wrong )\r\n\r\nI agree with you about the tracker but some
    UI changes could fix at least 30% of the problems there. Still, it would be nice
    to have a RSS of all new postings and or subsections. I might be a pig for having
    this attitude, but I have to admit that the type id thing while quite impressive
    isn't something I like to read a lot. "
  created: '2005-09-10 22:01:04'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Eben\r\n\r\nThanks for your parental advice. Perhaps you can provide me with
    one further tidbit. How do I resign from Typophile?\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-09-11 02:56:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Boys, boys. Gerald is being grumpy, that's all. People of all ages can do
    that. On the other hand, he's also forgetting that Typophile is free, which makes
    complaining a lot less appealing!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-11 03:02:17'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Free or not Hrant, how actually do you get off the list? Can't find the unsubscribe
    anywhere. Is one doomed to be a member of Typophile for eternity? Eben is not
    my problem here, he's just a little prick, I'm a big boy. But this is really a
    major headache for me, and by the way, the only bad \"tech\" experience I am having
    on the net, and being a member, because of my compulsive nature, just causes me
    to self-punish myself on occasion, which, in my old age, I have learned to control
    by the \"just quit\" method.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-09-11 03:23:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Gerald, really my parental riff was meant to be silly/funny. If it didn't
    feel that way then I apologize. Basically I just wanted you to keep in mind some
    of us are not having the technical problems you are having & there is probably
    a solution if you can muster the patience. I have afeeling that if you asked for
    help resolving your issues you would get lots of it. And I wanted you to  know
    that I thought you were not being fair to Typophile because it is as Hrant remninds
    us - free.\r\n\r\nPersonally I don't see what is wrong with somebody signing up
    if they like Typophile - or leaving if they don't. Or being grumpy. Whatever.
    It's for them to decide. If folks want to try influence Gerald or the next impatient
    person- feel free. I won't think less of you. Gerald, I am also totally happy
    with the idea of your staying. I have no desire to push you out either. I think
    you are very probably not giving Typophile a fair chance but - it's your bag.
    Dowhatchalike. Typewhereyoulike. \r\n\r\nIf you are willing to answer a question
    or three before you go: Do you like Listservs better? What environment do you
    like better? Or do they all suck? \r\n\r\nHrant do you know Gerald?"
  created: '2005-09-11 03:44:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gerald, there should be a \"log out\" thing at the top-right.\r\n\r\nEben,
    Gerald was (is?) my letterpress teacher. I'd even\r\npresume to think he's a friend.
    I like you too though.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-11 04:19:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks!\r\n\r\nSo - all the more reason to try to help him stick around.
    No? Looking over his other posts he seemed pretty contented. Does he know that
    alot of us have had problems too? I guess that would not matter.\r\n\r\nI am up
    for attempting a little tech support - but your closer to him than I. By 2,300+
    miles. :-)\r\n\r\nHere are some ideas: \r\n\r\n\u2022 Make sure his Plug-ins are
    up to date. That is my #1 guess.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Toss out the typophile cookies,
    he might not know how to do this so a little phone coaching or hands on might
    help. He will need to remember his password if it getting inserted automaticaly
    now.\r\n\r\n\u2022 Then ( or maybe first ) try a different browser. Like Firefox.
    \r\n\r\n\u2022\_This is a little far fetched but I guess you could try a new account.\r\n\r\n\u2022
    Also, he could see if Joe or Jared have any ideas.\r\n\r\nAnd now the thread is
    well & truely off topic. Oh well."
  created: '2005-09-11 06:51:28'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "\u21D2 <em>And now the thread is well & truely off topic.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks,
    Eben, for pulling the thread back to topic.\r\nThe topic may have run its course
    anyway since a greater need regarding browser management vs. Typophile beta errors
    was raised.\r\n\r\nActually issues such as Gerald's should be directed either
    to the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/12063\"><strong>Bug Report Thread</strong></a>
    or to a new topic area for Tech Assistance.\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------\r\n\"Yes,
    I'm old!\" is getting pretty old!"
  created: '2005-09-11 15:27:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW Eben, the posting errors of before are gone (although to me at least
    those were just a minor nuisance) but the much more disruptive full collapses
    of the system (usually over the weekends, as before) are still here...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-12 18:11:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Yes, the system does all kinds of wacky things. For instance when I show
    up I used to be recognized. Now I am not - but when I click into the forums then
    I am recognized. Sometimes I can post & sometimes not. I am sure it's being worked
    on. And even if it isn't - it's still free. \r\n\r\nDid you even try to help Gerald?"
  created: '2005-09-12 18:33:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Help Gerald do what? Troubleshoot his system? Or troubleshoot Typophile?
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-12 18:43:56'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Eben\r\n\r\nPlease accept my apologies as well. I reading through this all
    you seem quite sincere and I certainly misjudged you.\r\n\r\nActually I am fairly
    computer literate. I was doing informational retrieval of online databases back
    in 1976. Worked with proprietary analog typesetting systems in the early 1980s.
    Was involved with the Mac platform since about 1989. So when I hear the question,
    \"what is your browser,\" I reach for my Taurus 9mm.\r\n\r\nAt any rate, I looked
    through the thread on problems with the beta and I now realize I am hardly the
    only one with problems and that this is somewhat of a misguided and unique hell
    hole\u2014and in saying that, I do like Typophile or I would not even waste my
    time being critical. Hrant's thing about \"free\" is a bit of nonsense though,
    most of the web is free, that's why most of us are here, um, especially Hrant.
    :\u2014)\r\n\r\nThere are some serious problems here and they actually need to
    be addressed by the owners and not solved by the members. I would suggest that
    the list \"loyalists\" start to come to terms with that. This might be a voluntary
    altruistic effort on the part of the owners (whoever they actually may be) but
    I do believe money is accepted at certain categories and when you do that you
    do have to deliver.\r\n\r\nIf I can't get into the site half the time and it causes
    me problems the other half, looks like I will have to accept that, until, of course,
    it just becomes a pointless exercise.\r\n\r\nIf it's a problem with my browser
    by the way, that's Typophile's problem, not mine.\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-09-15 08:17:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Welcome back Gerald! \r\n\r\nI can't say I agree with everything you wrote
    just now - but then there would be no point in having typophile if we all agreeed
    about everything - or knew everything.\r\n\r\n> If it\u2019s a problem with my
    browser by the way, that\u2019s Typophile\u2019s problem, not mine.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are still using a 2.0 browser then I could not agree - that would be just
    <b>asking </b>for trouble - but chances are that your not using that old of a
    browser. Personally if I had to access Typophile with a specific browser then
    I would probably do that. But that is an extreme kind of attitude & I see your
    point about web sites needing to work with a wide range of browsers.\r\n\r\nAnyway
    - welcome back!"
  created: '2005-09-15 16:24:28'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Email notification is further down the list of improvements. The ability
    to flag a thread as one you're interested in to \"watch\" is closer to being developed.
    At this point our focus is on fixing bugs and on getting the old content (courses,
    articles, projects) back online.\r\n\r\nAs far as browser support, that is a given.
    We're committed to supporting current (within reason!) browsers. I'm talking about
    IE for Windows, Safari for Mac and Firefox for both."
  created: '2005-09-15 19:04:51'
date: '2005-09-01 21:39:11'
title: Help Stamp out Zero Response

---
