---
author:
  name: Peter G.
  picture: 109459
body: "I write a good number of papers for school and I would like to incorporate
  some of the good typographic style I\u2019ve learned from [[Robert Bringhurst|Bringhurst]].
  Specifically, I would like to take advantage of the [[OpenType]] features available
  in some of my good fonts. \r\n\r\nThe problem is Microsoft Word doesn\u2019t support
  the OpenType features, and I can\u2019t write my papers in InDesign because it lacks
  some of the essential features of Word (e.g. Spell Check as you type, Thesaurus,
  Grammar check, etc). Besides, I\u2019m much more comfortable using Word for the
  actual writing. However, I\u2019ve become fairly familiar with InDesign\u2019s robust
  type formatting options so when it comes time to take the type into consideration
  I would like to be able to use them. But when I import my Word documents into InDesign\u2014or
  Illustrator for that matter\u2014everything gets thrown in to one text block and
  I lose my page breaks, pagination, footnotes, etc.\r\n\r\n<strong>So here\u2019s
  my question: is there a way to import/open Word documents in InDesign or Illustrator
  and not lose any formatting?</strong><!--break-->"
comments:
- author:
    name: jeffreyross25-spammer
  body: working with words and In type is a typicality area of writing. So you should
    be fully skilled in typography. <a rel="dofollow" href="http://www.paperwisdom.com/pw/thesis.asp">Custom
    thesis</a>
  created: '2012-11-13 10:52:24'
- author:
    name: WurdBendur
    picture: 110861
  body: "I thought InDesign had a spellchecker and a thesaurus.\r\nHave you tried
    to copy and paste the text? May may also want to try an in-between format, exporting
    to that from Word and then importing it into InDesign. I'm not sure what formats
    InDesign can handle, though.\r\nBut unless your documents are a page or less,
    I wouldn't bother with Illustrator."
  created: '2005-09-05 05:07:02'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\"and I can\u2019t write my papers in InDesign because it lacks some of the
    essential features of Word (e.g. Spell Check as you type, Thesaurus, Grammar check,
    etc)\"\r\n\r\n\r\nWho told you that?\r\n\r\nGo to Edit > Preferences (Windows);
    InDesign >Preferences (Mac)  Autocorrect / Enable Autocorrect\r\nor Edit > Spelling
    > Autocorrect\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n\r\n\r\n- - - - - - - - - - - -\r\nAdjective5\u2122
    | Adj5\u2122"
  created: '2005-09-05 05:37:17'
- author:
    name: carl
    picture: 110738
  body: "I've been using .txt and .rtf as intermediaries for probably 15 years. That
    statement, of course, implies that this was an issue before InDesign existed.
    (Quark 4, PageMaker 6, etc.) As much as I like word processing software, there's
    just usually no business incentive for developers to make it work smoothly with
    typesetting software. I guess it could happen eventually by accident, but I'm
    still not bothering to try to make it work. \r\nBoth Microsoft and Adobe have
    \"mature\" markets, which means they don't have any close competitors. I don't
    expect things to change unless the market does. "
  created: '2005-09-05 09:52:34'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: "I think these are different tools and (for various reasons) (e.g., footnotes,
    cross-references, automatic generation of tables of contents and so forth) I would
    generally stick to a word-processor for writing. You can still have something
    better than the typographic average if you use the tool properly. For instance,
    since you're not going to have ligatures, you choose a font that doesn't need
    them, and so on. Get the margins and leading right. Do everything using defined
    styles, set up in advance, using templates. What you get will not be perfect (it
    won't be what you would want if you were actually publishing a book), but it will
    \ not only be acceptable, it will be significantly better than average thanks
    to a little typographical refinement.\r\n\r\nI would save InDesign for the very
    occasional piece that you want to make look even better. You then resign yourself
    to writing in Word (say), and then pasting it all into indesign and marking it
    up, which you do only when the \"manuscript\" is absolutely perfect in Word. For
    instance, if one were writing a PhD dissertation, one might do this as the last
    stage before submission. But not until then. For ordinary school papers it really
    is not worth the trouble.\r\n\r\nOne alternative is LaTeX, which will give you
    typographic refinement to some degree. I'm quite a fan, and if you are doing anything
    involving mathematical or symbolic things, LaTeX is probably the way to go. The
    trouble is font installation and set-up, and there is a very steep learning curve."
  created: '2005-09-05 14:34:14'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: Did you try to import directly in Xpress?
  created: '2005-09-05 20:49:58'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Peter, you can keep a \"live\" connection between the InDesign document and
    the Word document it's based upon. That way you can use all the features of Word
    you need AND all of the OpenType features of InDesign.\r\n\r\nJust check the Help
    of InDesign (I can't right now, because there's InDesign on the machine I'm using
    right now). "
  created: '2005-09-05 23:55:22'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Set up your document and create a text box and, with the cursor in the text
    box, use \"place\" from the \"file\" menu to import your word document. Choose
    \"show import options\" in the bottom left of the dialogue box that appears for
    selecting the file you want to place. You can choose to include the table of contents,
    index, and footnotes, and to preserve/import formatting like page breaks. \r\n\r\nI
    just did it with one of my essays and the essay looks the same as it did in word
    -- centred title, double spaced, bold where it's supposed to be, and so on. I'm
    using InDesign CS\r\n\r\nKristina."
  created: '2005-09-07 03:00:06'
- author:
    name: Peter G.
    picture: 109459
  body: "I figured InDesign had spell check and even a thesaurus, but can it check
    the spelling and grammar as you type? I guess part of my hesitation in deserting
    Word completely for InDesign is my familiarity with Word and my lack of experience
    with InDesign. Footnoting was also a major concern. Some of my papers use lots
    of footnotes, and I find that Word handles those very well.\r\n\r\n<em>> Did you
    try to import directly in Xpress?</em>\r\nDon't have Xpress.\r\n\r\n<em>> I would
    generally stick to a word-processor for writing. You can still have something
    better than the typographic average if you use the tool properly.</em>\r\nThat's
    what I've been doing thus far, Paul, and it's better than nothing and certainly
    better than the typical papers my professors get. In fact, last semester I set
    all my papers in Garamond Pro and I actually had a professor tell me my paper
    looked very nice and ask me what font I used. Since then, I've also been using
    a Word macro that finds \"fi\" and \"fl\" combonations and replaces them with
    the correct ligatures. I would just like to take it a step further and be able
    to use true small caps, and especially old-style figures.\r\n\r\nKristina, I'm
    know I've tried doing that, but I don't remember getting the same results. I think
    InDesign messed up my footnotes and it put it all in one text box. I'll have to
    try it again while following your instructions. I'm also using CS.\r\n\r\nBert,
    that \"live\" connection may also be the solution, thanks.\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-07 20:06:55'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'As you say, InDesign has robust text-formatting tools, so why waste time
    doing those tasks in Word? I can''t believe you still have any hair. Suppose you
    compose (type) your documents in Word, which is its ostensible purpose, then move
    the plain text (no formatting) to InDesign and do the layout/formatting there?
    This makes use of each application''s strengths, and doesn''t waste time in converting
    formats etc. '
  created: '2005-09-08 18:30:30'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Peter, \r\n\r\nI tried it again just now from my office computer only to
    find that it isn't working the way I said -- so I wonder if it has something to
    do with the version of word the document was written in. It worked perfectly well
    on my home computer (with a document). Now I'm really intrigued.\r\n\r\nAnother
    option, as I think has been suggested, is to compose in word and do all formatting
    afterwards in InDesign (paragraph styles can be a time-saver).\r\n\r\nI've never
    used footnotes in InDesign, though. Can't be of help there.\r\nI'll let you know
    if I figure anything out, and I would be curious to know if you get anywhere with
    it.\r\n\r\nAs a side note, my reason for not composing papers in InDesign is that
    I can't select and drag passages to rearrange my sentences. I find it frustrating
    to cut and paste while composing. \r\n\r\nKristina."
  created: '2005-09-08 20:56:42'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Hi again Peter,\r\n\r\nFound it. \r\nIn the same \"import options\" box you
    need to de-select \"remove text and table formatting\".\r\n\r\nThe footnotes appeared
    immediately at the bottom of the text (no blank lines between) and with a header
    that said \"(footnotes)\".\r\n\r\nOne other thing I noticed: Pay attention to
    the InDesign character settings before you import. If you import a document with
    size 12 font and 14 leading and your InDesign set up is 8/10, your imported text
    is going to be squished. It seems to preserve the font size of the original document
    but not the leading. So in my case, I ended up with 12/10. Auto leading might
    be a good choice pre-importing.\r\n\r\nKristina"
  created: '2005-09-08 21:15:54'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: "Peter, you can get all you are asking for if you are using InDesign CS2.
    Make sure you define and use styles in Word. Creeat styles with the same names
    in ID and add the OT options that you want. When you import a word document, select
    preserve formatting.\r\n\r\nPage breaks will not be imported, so you will need
    to do the page breaks in ID. In any case, you will need to go over the document
    and check for problems."
  created: '2005-09-08 21:17:38'
- author:
    name: Peter G.
    picture: 109459
  body: "<em>> Suppose you compose (type) your documents in Word, which is its ostensible
    purpose, then move the plain text (no formatting) to InDesign and do the layout/formatting
    there?</em>\r\nI guess I'm leaning towards this, but I'm still hesitant because
    of my lack of familiarity with InDesign. Basically I just know the tools in InDesign
    that carry over to Illustrator. Of course, part of the reason for using InDesign
    at all is to learn it better.\r\n\r\n<em> >As a side note, my reason for not composing
    papers in InDesign is that I can\u2019t select and drag passages to rearrange
    my sentences.</em>\r\nIt's the little things like that that are keeping me from
    switching entirely.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know if Microsoft has any plans to include
    tools to take advantage of OpenType features in the next version of Word? I was
    reading about their new fonts for Windows Vista about a month ago and they're
    all OpenType and if I remember correctly, they all have good features such as
    true small caps, old style figures, etc. This made me hope that their going to
    allow us to take advantage of those in Word, PowerPoint, etc. On the same note,
    does anyone know how Word currently handles small caps with OpenType fonts that
    have them? Does it actually use the real small caps, or does it shrink the uppercase
    letters?\r\n\r\nKristina,\r\nWhat version of Word are you using? I'm using 2002."
  created: '2005-09-08 21:42:16'
- author:
    name: Peter G.
    picture: 109459
  body: You know, I've never really learned how to use the styles in Word. Maybe that's
    my problem.
  created: '2005-09-08 21:45:22'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Peter, \r\n\r\nI am using Word 2002 also. \r\nI've never used styles in Word,
    either. Somehow my projects never seemed long enough to merit them, but the work
    I'm doing in InDesign certainly does and they come in very handy. With one click
    I can format the whole paragraph. It's also useful for repeated styles like headers
    and subheaders. If you're doing a short paper, the time setting up the styles
    is maybe not worth it, but for a book it's a few well invested minutes.\r\n\r\nGood
    luck,\r\nKristina"
  created: '2005-09-09 16:45:15'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: "Peter & Kristina, setting up styles in Word can be very useful, even if all
    you do is short papers. For my graduate work I did 2-page papers regularly. I
    setup the styles and saved them as default (in Normal.dot). From then on I did
    not worry about setting up paragraph formats. It took me some time to get all
    the styles I need, but I still use them, years after graduating.\r\n\r\nPeter,
    it seems you are not using InDesign CS2, or you did not check all the options.
    In the preferences if you select spelling, you can activate dynamic spelling a
    la Word, you can also activate autocorrect. And in Preferences>Type there is a
    Drag and Drop text section.\r\n\r\ngood luck."
  created: '2005-09-10 13:54:03'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Alas, we are both using CS. \r\nK."
  created: '2005-09-11 03:13:46'
- author:
    name: attic
  body: Our work involves putting many languages in brochures. We work in InDesign
    CS. We have now recieved a Hebrew text which views well, I presume, on the PC.
    When put on the Mac it also views well in TextEdit but when copied into InDesign
    it inverts the letters and it will also not display correctly in a special Hebrew
    font which I have. Please give advice or advise me where I can go for help.
  created: '2005-11-16 16:40:06'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: "Martin, Hebrew is written right to left. MS Word on PC can work with left-to-right
    texts. On the Mac you can use TextEdit, Mellel, and a few other apps, but these
    are word processors. The page layout programs that can deal with it are QuarkXpress
    with ArabicXT, but it has its own font set and needs to convert the system fonts,
    and it costs a fortune. the second program is InDesign CS ME. To check it out
    go <a href=\"http://www.adobeceea.com/products/ME/indesign/MEoptions.html\">here</a>.
    You will need this to do any serious work in LTR languages.\r\n\r\nIf your Hebrew
    text is only a few lines there are other programs that can insert a few lines
    of text into InDesign CS. I think <a href=\"http://www.devalipi.com\">Develapi</a>
    has one such app."
  created: '2005-11-16 18:12:41'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I would recommend writing WORDS ONLY (no formatting) in Word, saving as ASCII
    text, then importing into InDesign for formatting. Yes, you can format in Word,
    then save as RTF, but RTF is a ridiculously overblown format which adds tags promiscuously:
    you're better off without all the excess garbage.\r\n\r\nAnd forget about Word's
    Grammar Check -- it's laughable.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-17 19:41:12'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: Martin, Nick's comment does not appply to you, it is for the original poster,
    Peter. It would have been better if you had started a new thread, since your problem
    is different from this one.
  created: '2005-11-17 20:33:43'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "And to all and sundry: if you're going to be using Word for anything more
    than \"writing words only\" I'd absolutely agree that getting fully <em>au fait</em>
    with Word's paragraph styles is the most useful thing you can do (and templates
    the second most useful!)\r\n\r\nLet's all keep our fingers crossed that future
    versions of Word will support all the OpenType features, but given MS's history,
    I wouldn't bank on it... \r\n\r\n(Somebody ought to write a suite of Word Macros
    with specific \"quality-typography\" features.)\r\n\r\n________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2005-11-19 10:32:13'
- author:
    name: Peter G.
    picture: 109459
  body: "Dave,\r\n\r\nI've actually made a few macros for Word that take advantage
    of OpenType features. I wrote one that changes all numberals to oldstyle figures
    and two for ligatures: one for the common letters that most fonts have (e.g. fi),
    and one for really good fonts that have \"extra\" ligatures (e.g. ft, fl). I also
    want to make one that replaces Word's small-caps with real, OpenType Small Caps.
    But I haven't figured out how to access the macro files. I want to post them on
    my website, but don't know how. Any advice?"
  created: '2005-12-13 20:13:59'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\n> I would recommend writing WORDS ONLY \r\n> (no formatting)
    in Word, \r\n\r\nSorry, not an option. Every document I work on has a *structure*
    I don't want to deal with structureless documents. I use the excellent Word 2003
    to define the structure of my documents through styles. The actual formatting
    of the styles does matter as well: I usually set up Word so the proportions of
    the text column and the type parameters are equivalent to what I will use in the
    final typesetting. This way, I can estimate how much my text will occupy in the
    printed matter as I type (things like counting words are just a crude and primitive
    approximations.) \r\n\r\nI always use Word's native .doc format to move my files
    into InDesign, and of course I *only* work with styles (no manual formatting).
    What I  haven't tested out extensively yet is InDesign's support for footnotes
    (I don't mean \"footnotes that appear at the end of the text\" because that's
    not *footnotes*, that's endnotes). Apparently InDesign CS2 has some support for
    real footnotes. \r\n\r\n> And forget about Word\u2019s Grammar Check \u2014 it\u2019s
    laughable.\r\n\r\nOn the contrary. I think Word's proofing tools are very useful,
    especially for a non-native English speaker such as myself. I use them in all
    the languages I write: Polish, German, English, Russian. Of course, as with any
    automatic tool, I would rarely trust it blindly. \r\n\r\nWhenever Word's grammar
    check underlines my sentence (or the spelling check highlights a word), I take
    it as a good opportunity to review it. Sometimes, the sentence is just fine so
    I ignore the warning, and sometimes it can actually spot things like a verb that
    I omitted by mistake. \r\n\r\nFrom the usability point of view, InDesign doesn't
    even come close to Word when it comes to editing text. Half of the useful shortcuts
    are not there in InDesign, and everything is slow. But most importantly, the 4-5
    dictionaries that I have installed on my Windows machines all have Word macros
    that integrate them in Word, so I can do things like English-Polish translations
    right from Word without any copy-pasting. \r\n\r\nFinally, for the languages other
    than English, Word's proofing tools also beat InDesign's by miles. You could call
    the German or Polish spellchecker in InDesign at best \"experimental\" while the
    ones in Word are quite solid. I don't blame InDesign for that -- for last-minute
    checkups the spellchecker is perhaps useful but the only thing that I really need
    to work well in InDesign is the hyphenation algorithm. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-14 00:58:22'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>> And forget about Word\u2019s Grammar Check \u2014 it\u2019s laughable.\r\n\r\nOn
    the contrary. I think Word\u2019s proofing tools are very useful, especially for
    a non-native English speaker such as myself.</em>\r\n\r\nAdam, you may find Word\u2019s
    proofing tools useful as a non-native speaker but, for native speakers who have
    degrees in English language and literature and are, ideally, more intimately acquainted
    with the rules, they are pathetic. Word's Grammar Check flags items which are
    perfectly grammatically correct, overlooks items that are patently grammatically
    incorrect, and often makes totally erroneous suggestions (<em>its</em> and <em>it's</em>
    being perhaps the most egregious one, <em>than</em> and <em>then</em> being a
    close second).\r\n\r\nYes, Word is a much more capable <strong>word processing</strong>
    program than InDesign, as well it should be: I don't think that I suggested otherwise.
    Use its (proper usage) tools to write the words (or get a semi-accurate idea of
    how much space those words will occupy, although there does exist an arcane discipline,
    known to some of us old-time typesetters, called copyfitting, which would serve
    equally as well); but chuck Word's formatting (basically .rtf) when you export
    those words. Apply your styles in the page composition program, which is one of
    the areas in which that particular kind of program excels. In other words, do
    what each program does best in the program that does it best."
  created: '2005-12-14 01:24:22'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Apply your styles in the page composition program, which \r\n> is one of
    the areas in which that particular kind of \r\n> program excels. \r\n\r\nNo, I
    *design* my styles in the page layout application (InDesign) but I apply them
    when I devise the document sturcture during the work on the text (in Word). Of
    course RTF is only an imperfect replacement for a proper distinction between structure
    and formatting. To do it properly, one uses XML (to devise the structure) and
    CSS, XSL, or any other formatting language, to devise the formatting. \r\n\r\nCurrently,
    the XML support in Word 2003 is only very basic but I hope it will improve in
    Word 12, so I can author my XML files in Word and move them to InDesign. Until
    then, I'll stick with RTF. \r\n\r\nFor me, the whole point of spellchecking or
    grammar checking in word processing applications is not making suggestions but
    pointing my attention to *potential* errors. \r\n\r\nThere is this feature in
    FontLab called FontAudit. Some users take it literally and instead of making an
    reasonable assessment, they try to  fix every single potential problem that FontAudit
    flags. I could never understand that \"the computer tells me to\" attitude. When
    it comes to assessing legitimate situations vs. errors, the human brain is still
    eons ahead of computers. Automatic spellchecking does not lift the necessity of
    proofreading the text. And yet, it can be useful for identifying possible deficiencies
    by simply highlighting portions of text that need double-checking. With grammar
    checking, it's the same thing. \r\n\r\n> for native speakers who have degrees
    in English language \r\n> and literature\r\n\r\nPlease forgive me (and some 700
    million other people) for not having the \"luxury\" of being member of that \"elite\".
    \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2005-12-14 02:15:37'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>> for native speakers who have degrees in English language\r\n> and literature\r\n\r\nPlease
    forgive me (and some 700 million other people) for not having the \u201Cluxury\u201D
    of being member of that \u201Celite\u201D. </em>\r\n\r\nI didn't mean to suggest
    that people who know the rules were in anyway superior to anyone else, and that
    sarcastic comment is really beneath you, Adam. What I <em>said</em>, and will
    repeat once more, is that Word's Grammar Check is often inaccurate, and sometimes
    downright wrong and is, therefore, only marginally useful. Likewise, FontLab's
    Font Audit feature is sometimes wrong: its notion of a \"flat curve\" needs some
    serious fine-tuning, and the flag \"unnecessary extremum\" ought to be \"incorrect
    extremum,\" since it usually occurs at points which stray a degree or two into
    obtuse angle territory.\r\n\r\nSpell checkers are indeed useful: typos happen,
    and it is convenient to have them pointed out. But they have their problems,too:
    for whatever reason, WordPerfect does not have <strong>Pentium</strong> in its
    dictionary, and often suggests <strong>penis</strong> as a possible substitute..."
  created: '2005-12-14 12:53:54'
- author:
    name: jakob
  body: "<cite><strong>oldnick:</strong> WordPerfect does not have Pentium in its
    dictionary...</cite>\r\n\r\nyes, spellcheckers can be good for a chuckle too (and
    we all know: all work and no play makes jack a dull boy).\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite><strong>twardoch:</strong>
    and of course I *only* work with styles (no manual formatting)</cite>\r\n\r\nIs
    there a word-equivalent to Indesign's character styles that I've not discovered?
    I always find that word's styles apply to entire paragraphs, so some manual formatting
    is always necessary.\r\n\r\nOtherwise matching style names between Word and InDesign
    sounds like a good workflow method that achieves as much of the best of both worlds
    as possible.\r\n\r\nThere are plenty of reasons why Word is used over InDesign,
    not least that many (most?) contributing authors simply don't have InDesign or
    InCopy. The suggested workflow would smoothen the graduation from source copy
    to layout considerably. Of course, that presupposes that authors will work with
    Word's styles, but that's another question...\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: JeffM
    body: ">Is there a word-equivalent to Indesign\u2019s character styles that I\u2019ve
      not discovered?\r\n\r\nYes, when you create a new style you can choose to make
      it a paragraph (default) or a character style in the drop-down list in the upper-right
      corner of the dialog box."
    created: '2005-12-21 16:45:07'
  created: '2005-12-17 23:31:46'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Likewise, FontLab\u2019s Font Audit feature is sometimes wrong\r\n\r\nNick,
    \r\n\r\nif it were right all the time, you'd have no job. Software can't make
    accurate judgements but it can assist you in making your own accurate judgements
    FASTER. This is why I use spellcheckers, grammar checkers, hyphenation, machine
    translation, \"Make Bold\" or FontAudit. None of these methods replaces thinking
    but all of the methods -- if used consciously -- can get me faster where I want
    to arrive. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-19 15:14:01'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: ">Is there a word-equivalent to Indesign\u2019s character styles that I\u2019ve
    not\r\n>discovered? I always find that word\u2019s styles apply to entire\r\n>paragraphs,
    so some manual formatting is always necessary.\r\n\r\nI don't know about MS Word,
    but I use <a href=\"http://www.openoffice.org/\" target=\"_blank\">OpenOffice.org
    Writer</a> and there are both Paragraph and Character styles -- as well as Page,
    Frame, and List Styles. I'm not sure if the last three will export to InDesign.
    \r\n\r\nI usually export my files do .doc or .rtf (OpenOffice.org's default is
    .odt), and Place them in InDesign. \r\n\r\nEdit: I just tested Place with a .rtf
    file and both Paragraph and Character Styles were imported."
  created: '2005-12-19 17:30:36'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>> Likewise, FontLab\u2019s Font Audit feature is sometimes wrong\r\n\r\nNick,
    \r\n\r\nif it were right all the time, you\u2019d have no job. Software can\u2019t
    make accurate judgements but it can assist you in making your own accurate judgements
    FASTER. This is why I use spellcheckers, grammar checkers, hyphenation, machine
    translation, \u201CMake Bold\u201D or FontAudit. None of these methods replaces
    thinking but all of the methods \u2014 if used consciously \u2014 can get me faster
    where I want to arrive.</em>\r\n\r\nAdam,\r\nI agree with your assessment, but
    I persist in my position that BAD advice is worse than NO advice. Word's Grammar
    Check sometimes gives BAD advice (it's <em>its</em>--the neuter possessive pronoun--not
    <em>it's</em>--the contraction for <em>it is</em>); FontAudit sometimes gives
    BAD advice (it's an incorrect extrumum, <em>not</em> an unnecessary one); WordPerfect's
    Spell Checker sometimes gives REALLY BAD advice (it's a <em>Pentium</em>, not
    a <em>penis</em>). And Adam: if either you or I were right <em>all</em> the time,
    we could probably gets jobs as Creators and Rulers of the universe or, at the
    very least, in the Bush White House. Since, I don't believe, either of us aspires
    to either of those positions, let's just settle on giving GOOD advice when we
    can, and agree to disagree when our definitions of said good advice differ."
  created: '2005-12-20 00:01:26'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "On the other hand, the WordPerfect SPellCheck gaffe suggests a whole new
    take on the old line attributed to Mae West...\r\n\r\n\"Is that an Intel Inside\u2122
    or are you just glad to see me?\""
  created: '2005-12-20 20:32:44'
- author:
    name: jakob
  body: Thank you Jeff, I'd not seen that before. Thank you too Gabriel.
  created: '2005-12-22 14:12:20'
- author:
    name: Jennifer Hearing
  body: "I have a question about Word file placement in InDesign.\r\nI'm typesetting
    an English doc with a few lines of different languages. Russian is one I'm currently
    working on.\r\nTried placing directly, and copying to Text Edit then to InDesign
    and saving as RTF and get pink boxes.\r\nSo I tried inputting myself. Opened International
    Input menu and turned on Russian (Cryllic) Also tried languages with CE input.
    Then I chose the language under the flag menu and opened my Keyboard Viewer. I
    chose TNR PS in Keyboard and started typing. The Russian characters appear in
    Keyboard, but come out as pink boxes or highlights in InDesign when I type. \r\nThe
    only font I can get to work is Times, but the client does not want True Type.\r\n\r\nAny
    solutions?"
  created: '2007-12-05 19:41:16'
- author:
    name: emenninga
  body: "Lots of questions in this thread...  I'll try to address some of them.  As
    Levon said, starting a new thread for a new topic can help keep things from getting
    lost.\r\n\r\n1) The response to the original question would be: InDesign CS didn't
    have a footnote feature, so the Word footnotes are imported as a block.  The latest
    versions do support footnotes and they import correctly.\r\n2) Martin: Hebrew
    can be formatted very professionally using the ME version of InDesign, which was
    adapted by [[http://www.winsoft.eu/products_solutions/adobe-indesignCS3.php|WinSoft]].\r\n3)
    InDesign doesn't ship with a thesaurus but InCopy does.\r\n4) The pink boxes sounds
    like you are using Cyrillic text with a font that doesn't have Cyrillic support.
    Many more informal applications support a \"font fallback\" mechanism to use some
    font to draw missing characters. InDesign generally will use only the font specified
    to prevent unintentional use of other fonts."
  created: '2007-12-05 21:48:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Eric it would be cool if there were an option to convert footnotes into endnotes
    when importing into InDesign. Or even better, and option to not import the main
    body so you can only import the footnotes, index, TOC, etc.
  created: '2007-12-05 23:41:39'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>it would be cool if there were an option to convert footnotes into
    endnotes</em>\r\n\r\nSome time ago* I wrote an InDesign script that converts footnotes
    to endnotes, which can be run right after importing a Word doc containing footnotes.
    I've just submitted it to the <a href=\"http://www.adobe.com/cfusion/exchange/index.cfm?event=productHome&exc=19\">InDesign
    Exchange community</a> and will post here a direct link to it as soon as it gets
    approved.\r\n\r\n*around ATypI 2006 when I was cornered by a friend book designer
    in Lisbon that wanted me to lobby InDesign for the same kind of functionality
    you're asking for"
  created: '2007-12-06 07:12:16'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: <a href="http://www.adobe.com/cfusion/exchange/index.cfm?event=extensionDetail&extid=1345518">Footnotes2Endnotes
    - InDesign Exchange</a>
  created: '2007-12-12 00:55:24'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Miguel,\r\n\r\nI've downloaded the script you created and I received a text
    edit file. Sorry for my ignorance, but I don't know what to do with this kind
    of file. I tried to place it in the Indesign Plug-Ins file, I also tried to place
    it in the Presets > Scripts file and I didn't see any change in Indesign. To make
    a test, I imported a Word file with footnotes and as it is write in the Adobe
    download page I didn't see the any new style in the Paragraph or Object Styles
    in the Indesign palette. Could you help me. \r\n\r\nThanks in advance.\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2007-12-12 13:18:04'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Andr\xE9,\r\n\r\nThe file you download is an InDesign script, and should
    have the name 'Footnotes2Endnotes.jsx'. If you're using Safari, you'll probably
    get a file named 'Footnotes2Endnotes.jsx.txt'. If that's your case, just remove
    the '.txt' extension from the name. [To be sure that the file type really gets
    changed, do File > Get Info (Command+I) and edit the Name & Extension field]\r\n\r\nOnce
    you're done with the above, you'll need to put the .JSX file inside a folder that
    InDesign will access. If you're using CS2, the location of that folder is <code>Adobe
    InDesign CS2/Presets/Scripts</code>. If you're using CS3, the location of that
    folder is <code>Adobe InDesign CS3/Scripts/Scripts Panel</code>.\r\n\r\nAfter
    you've \"installed\" the script, just go to InDesign and open the Scripts palette
    by doing Window > Automation > Scripts. You should now be able to see the 'Footnotes2Endnotes.jsx'
    script. To run it, just double-click on it.\r\n\r\nNow it should be pretty straight
    forward to use the script. Let me know if you have any problems."
  created: '2007-12-12 19:13:17'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Thanks Miguel,\r\n\r\nI've made what you suggested and all works fine. \r\n\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2007-12-13 18:00:25'
- author:
    name: Urquell
    picture: 113239
  body: "Miguel, do you happen to know if the script can preserve character styles
    applied to the footnotes text after importing Word file (see screen below)?\r\n\r\nAntoni\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/footnotes_4741.gif]"
  created: '2008-03-03 10:33:25'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "The script does not preserve any formatting. Furthermore it assumes that
    the references are numeric and start at #1.\r\nI've started rewriting the script
    to make it more robust, but can only work on it as time permits. I'll report back
    once the new version is ready."
  created: '2008-03-03 18:49:08'
- author:
    name: Urquell
    picture: 113239
  body: "Miguel, thanks for your answer, and the script as well. It's actually vary
    handy as it is.\r\n\r\nAntoni"
  created: '2008-03-04 08:38:08'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "A new and enhanced version of the script is now live at [[http://www.adobe.com/cfusion/exchange/index.cfm?event=extensionDetail&extid=1345518|Footnotes2Endnotes
    - InDesign Exchange]].\r\n\r\nSpecial thanks to Antoni Adamowicz and Margaret
    Longstreth.\r\n\r\nRelease notes:\r\n-- Added dialog for selecting which character
    styles to apply. (The styles should be created before running the script)\r\n--
    The script no longer assumes the footnote numbering style is numeric and starts
    at #1.\r\n-- The footnotes' text formatting is now preserved.\r\n\r\nKnown issues:\r\n--
    The document's footnote options \"Restart Numbering\" and \"Prefix/Sufix\" are
    ignored.\r\n"
  created: '2008-04-25 21:56:29'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: .
  created: '2012-11-13 15:56:19'
date: '2005-09-04 23:22:46'
node_type: forum
title: Working with Word and InDesign

---
