---
author:
  name: david h
  picture: 110928
body: "Proxy  Magazine  \u2014 Adobe vol.1 no.4:\r\n\r\n\r\nMaybe it\u2019s a paradox,
  but Lucille Tenazas doesn\u2019t see it that way. As the principal of San Francisco\u2019s
  Tenazas Design and founding chair of the graduate program in design at the California
  College of the Arts (formerly CCAC), she has long been known for her innovative
  typography. But rarely does she reach for anything but the most common classical
  typefaces.\r\n\r\n\"I think that the less expressive a typeface is, the more creative
  a designer can be with it.\"\r\n\r\n\u201C If you have a strong image you can use
  it to recontextualize the type and give it a character all its own.\"\r\n\r\nTenazas\u2019s
  award-winning work tends to do just that: juxtapose a powerful image with a meaningful
  arrangement \r\nof type. By using subtle contrasts between serif and sans serif,
  as well as weight, she turns what\u2019s sometimes considered bland type into powerful
  statements.\r\n\r\nI believe that the test of a good designer is how well he or
  she deals with type,\u201D she says. \r\n\u201C Good typography should be intuitive
  and structural at the same time.\u201D"
comments:
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "The \"design\" of a typeface is only one of the many elements considered
    in typography.\r\nA \"good\" typeface does not equal good typography, and a \"bad\"
    typeface needn't produce bad typography. -- Typography 101.\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-09-09 00:04:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201CI think that the less expressive a typeface is,\r\n> the more creative
    a designer can be with it.\u201D\r\n\r\nWhat she really means is: \"I don't understand
    the real power of type, and I'm\r\ntoo lazy to learn, so I'd rather just express
    myself the way it's easiest for me.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-09 02:44:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Or perhaps she does know the power of type?  The laziest thing a person can
    do is pick a typeface from a large library and assume they are now done.  The
    power of the type will take over and do your job for you. Not.  Anyone who has
    labored over a typographic design can tell you that lazy is not even possible.
    Only lazy typographers throw there font library at a job.  That is easy as hell.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-09 03:02:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There are indeed different types of lazy. And it's possible she's not lazy.
    But the alternatives are distinctly worse. I was being gentle.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-09 03:27:53'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>Personally I feel ever so relieved every time a designer manages
    to overcome his urge to </strong>express himself<strong> through type.\r\n </strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2005-09-09 08:39:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Fredo is right.  The type is used to solve a communication problem brought
    to the designer by a client.  The type should help \"express\" the solution to
    that problem, not the psyche of the designer who uses it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-09 13:38:06'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\r\nHrant, I don't think she does not understand the real power of type.\r\n\r\n\r\n\"The
    type is used to solve a communication problem brought to the designer by a client.
    The type should help \u201Cexpress\u201D the solution to that problem, not the
    psyche of the designer who uses it.\"\r\n\r\nChris, True. See the sample  of her
    work. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-09 13:57:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris Lozos articulates a fundamental principle of design--though I hear
    often enough that clients don't correctly understand their own problems.\r\n\r\nHowever
    there is too much good design of all styles--with expressive type and with neutral
    type, with an element of personal expression and with an anonymous style--to be
    dogmatic about one approach being 'best'.\r\n\r\nFor a start, the length of work
    is a big factor. Too much artistic expressiveness in a lengthy text will seriously
    detract form the content of the author. But in a poster that tries to influence
    the viewer at a glance, expressive approaches may well get the better solutions.
    \r\n"
  created: '2005-09-09 15:04:20'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>See the sample of her work.</em>\r\n\r\nAre there other samples available
    for viewing?\r\nThe <em>REVELATORY LANDSCAPES</em> is sorta bland, n'est pas?\r\n\r\nIMHO,
    Ilene Strizver's <a href=\"http://www.thetypestudio.com/TypeRulessubs/typerulesREV.html\"
    target=\"new\">horizon line</a> is fully integrated into the typography of the
    book cover and not so \"incidental\" in feeling as Ms. Tenazas\u2019s. I'm not
    knocking Tenazas\u2019s book cover design, it just doesn't look revelatory to
    me.\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------\r\nYes, I'm old, but I'm
    back in style!"
  created: '2005-09-09 15:25:49'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Are there other samples available for viewing?\r\n\r\nYes. I'll post soon."
  created: '2005-09-09 15:32:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> overcome his urge to express himself through type.\r\n\r\nOr express himself
    at all, through type or anything else. But that's a different issue. No matter
    how talented/skilled a designer is in a certain niche (often merely a result of
    arbitrary self-imposed limitations) we cannot ignore the negative implications
    of shunning fonts beyond a small \"classic\" set. Furthermore, type is the point
    of Typophile, so that issue is what needs the most focus here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-09 15:38:21'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Is there such a thing as nonexpressive type?
  created: '2005-09-09 15:43:03'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>we cannot ignore the negative implications of shunning fonts beyond
    a small \u201Cclassic\u201D set</em>\r\n\r\nIs this another slam against Vignelli
    again, Hrant?\r\n\r\n---------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I know a slam when I see one!"
  created: '2005-09-09 15:47:08'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> Is there such a thing as nonexpressive type?\r\n\r\nStage direction:\r\n<em>Norbert
    stares into the void with no expression on his face</em>\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm expressionless!"
  created: '2005-09-09 15:50:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's Tenazas's turn - no cutting in line!\r\n\r\nI really don't get it, not
    on Typophile. Admire certain skills all you want, but if one assumes correctly
    that all of us here appreciate the value of expression in fonts, variety, and
    <cite>new</cite> fonts, there is a serious problem with Vignelli, Tenazas, et
    alia. Admit it, move on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-09 15:51:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...though I hear often enough that clients don\u2019t correctly understand
    their own problems.\"\r\n\r\nTrue William. Part of a good designers job is to
    help the client \"see the problem\" and articulate it with delineation of audience,
    purpose, message, and desired action.  (Paul Rand was a master at this.) Design
    is about problem solving. This includes far more non-visual work than people not
    in the design field understand. It is hard sometimes to convince a client that
    comes to you holding something and says, \"Make me one of these\" that \"one of
    those\" doesn't solve his problem.  The easiest part of being a designer is when
    you are just doing the design. The rest is the real work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-09 15:53:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "My readng of that quote is: A) a cautionary statement to budding designers,
    and B) an articulation of <em>focus</em> in a design piece: if the type calls
    for less attention, the other elements will receive that attention (or have to
    pick up the slack), and therefore the  \"more creative\" the designer can be/has
    to be with other elements.\r\n\r\nAlso, she's expressing her own take on the design
    process. I don't think one or the other is 'better' because I've seen and appreciated
    examples of both. It's the <em>knowing</em> about these visual balances and trade-offs
    that seems most important to me.\r\n\r\nJust becuase I have a deep appreciation
    for variety in type design doesn't mean I won't use Helvetica or Garamond to keep
    the type toned down next to an image that does the job. This is, of course, coming
    from a graphic designer, not a type designer."
  created: '2005-09-09 16:12:05'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: It could be she's encouraging other designers to not let trendy fonts make
    design decisions for them?
  created: '2005-09-09 16:35:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the other elements will receive that attention\r\n\r\nNot necessarily.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-09 16:42:29'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I still think we as a community should be highlighting exemplary work in
    both type design and typography. There are way too many samples of mediocre pieces
    that tend to justify themselves by way of explanation.\r\n\r\nIf we lower the
    bar then how are we to inspire or build an appreciation of type in others. The
    exceptional can still be subtle, just not ho-hum!"
  created: '2005-09-09 16:57:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Or hey, what about this?\r\n\r\n\"The less expressive a graphic designer
    is, the\r\nmore creative a user can be with the content.\"\r\n\r\nOr even:\r\n\r\n\"The
    less expressive an author is, the more\r\ncreative a reader can be with his life.\"\r\n\r\nMisguided,
    one and all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-09 17:00:41'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Basic typography courses often start students off with exercises that force
    them to do a lot of things with one or two boring typefaces (stilted Bodonis,
    Times, Helvetica). At that stage, it's useful for them to learn how to use type.
    Later, after one has presumably learned how to use it and has control over the
    type, the designer can indeed do a lot of things with type that even the type
    designer might not have imagined, and not all bad, either. \r\n\r\nStill, one
    arrives at a threshold with a certain typeface where there isn't anything else
    you can get out of it. Certain Bodoni cuts dry up and fade off the page with a
    certain amount of use. They look empty, weak, or at best, like throwbacks or imitations
    of 70's ads. At that point I would indeed urge a conservative designer to crack
    open the internet and discover the world of new powerful typefaces. But I don't
    think it's categorically weak or unimaginative for a designer to want to see how
    much they can get out of a certain established face. I just hope that they don't
    hobble themselves by being dogmatic about it and refusing to look around. The
    internet itself is the most obvious example. "
  created: '2005-09-09 17:38:59'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "\u201DYes, I\u2019m old, but I\u2019m expressionless!\"\r\n\r\nRight. And
    I'm invisible.\r\n\r\nMaybe expressionless type is like transparent design, too
    convinced of its own existence to be real."
  created: '2005-09-09 17:42:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Carl:\r\nAnd one would assume that Tenazas is somewhat\r\nbeyond being a
    basic student of typography...\r\n\r\nJames, you're so right that expression is
    unavoidable (which is certainly great, although only if it's not made a fetish).
    Warde/Morison were full of it. And anybody who thinks Helvetica is neutral needs
    to stick to just seeing Barbarella over and over again. On the other hand, some
    fonts are certainly more expressive than others.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-09 17:54:05'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Imposing certain limitations for the sake of creative exploration is understandable
    and commendable.\r\n\r\nPicasso's limited palette for his \"Blue\" period, and
    <a href=\"http://www.moma.org/collection/browse_results.php?criteria=O%3AAD%3AE%3A4057&page_number=5&template_id=1&sort_order=1\">Piet
    Mondrian</a> restricting himself to verticals, horizontals and primary colors
    pushed personal and creative \"boundaries\" but neither of them declared their
    exploration to be the <em>be all and end all</em> of creativity.\r\n\r\nSo IMHO:
    <em>Limitation good... exclusion bad!</em>\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-09 17:59:17'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "\u201DOn the other hand, some fonts are certainly more expressive than others.\u201C\r\n\r\nAnd
    expressive of different things.\r\n\r\nNorbert makes good points. It is the limitations
    an artist chooses that define the artist. Recently I was at a Dan Flavin show
    where the progress of his art could be seen in the refinement of his limitations.
    No one claims that Flavin is better because he uses ready made materials. \r\n\r\nWe
    are reacting to the idea that the design is better for limiting itself to classic
    faces, when the point is that good design can be built with classic and/or contemparary
    faces."
  created: '2005-09-09 18:16:01'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I think I'm allowing for the possibility that Tenazas is a conservative designer,
    who chooses a minimal palette. She seems fully in control of the type she's using,
    and a separate issue for any designer is which typefaces they choose. A really
    good designer can get mediocre and poorly-made typefaces to look better than they
    are. A good designer can get more freshness out of stale type. But I think the
    designer who masters typography and then ignores all but 4 type designs is not
    really making the most of type. \r\n\r\nIn the best of worlds, the designer uses
    expression to enhance the editorial message (not their own ego), and I don't think
    this can be fully realized using only Bodoni and News Gothic. But it's important
    to discern between skilled typography that seems boring, and inept typography.
    \r\n\r\nI think Tenazas is skilled but dogmatic. There's a passive-aggressive
    voice in her work that refuses to really let go of the \"expressiveness\" of seemingly
    inexpressive type. It's maybe not paradoxical but dishonest. "
  created: '2005-09-09 18:18:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Limitation good\u2026 exclusion bad!\r\n\r\nPretty good for an old guy.
    Goes in 'best quotes from Typophile'. \r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nI was born before Norbert,
    but I'm young!"
  created: '2005-09-09 18:27:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I recall a period in the 60s when there was a hot new type that became \"in\"
    every few months. There was a time when every head was set in Cooper Black. That
    ad had to be great because it was set in Cooper.  This is what I used to call
    the \"Typeface of the Month Club\" period. Everyone was \"discovering\" the in
    face and all the ad agency account reps were throwing type names around like they
    would save the world from nuclear holocaust.  About 75% of the ads were pure crap
    because all they did was use the \"cool font\".\r\nYou can fail at design both
    by excluding all but the same blessed few types or you can fail by using a new
    one every month. It is about the skill, knowledge, and talent of the designer,
    not how big or small his toolbox is.  The world is a big place, there is room
    for everyones way of working.  There is no need to point and chastise those who
    don't do it your way.  Do your own work and do it well. Discussing differences
    in work habits is fine but putting down others for not doing it your way is more
    dogmatic than confining yourself to a few trusted types. So, how many types did
    Garamond, Caslon, and Gutenburg use?\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-09 18:40:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well said, Carl.\r\nTo me, her choice of typefaces is extremely expressive
    -- expressive of a contempt for contemporary type design. I take it personally.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    if that's the way she wants to design, that's cool, that's her prerogative. But
    I can't help the way I feel about it, having dedicated my career to making new
    typefaces."
  created: '2005-09-09 18:53:57'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>About 75% of the ads were pure crap because all they did was use the
    \u201Ccool font\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nSo true, Chris.\r\nBut aahhhh... it was great
    \"type marketing\" which really hit it's zenith between the mid-seventies to mid-eighties.
    [[Aaron Burns]] of ITC and [[Mike Parker]] of Linotype were two maestros of making
    fonts fashionable. This has less to do with the current topic thread, but stimulating
    markets to purchase fonts and building huge libraries of typeface went hand-in-hand
    with the <em>Hardware Wars</em> between Linotype, Monotype, Berthold and Compugraphic.\r\n\r\nThe
    metal that had to be sold was in the form of high-end proprietary typesetting
    equipment, and if it couldn't output the hottest and biggest selection of type
    then sales suffered badly.\r\n\r\nAnother topic for another day."
  created: '2005-09-09 19:23:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant is also right that not managing to choose type in a sensitive way is
    disfuctional. It just is. \r\n\r\nBut it is also true that alot of graphic design
    tries to ride on the font choice to a degree which is excessive. Even if the the
    example is extreme it is getting at a reasonable point. The idea of showing that
    you can do strong work with a more limited set of fonts is a good one. Limiting
    choices in graphic design is sometimes a good way of getting focus on a problem.\r\n\r\nThe
    biggest problem I see with the text is the idea that certain fonts are 'classic'.
    Our society is all too ready to create 'classics'. The idea of Classic Rock &
    Classic Fonts are both ideas borne of an impetus to bland insensitive lazy reductivism.
    It will be 'classic punk' & eventually 'classic vegis' next. I think I'll choose
    my own 'classics' if at all.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-09 20:56:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Start that topic Norbert! I want to hear more about it.
  created: '2005-09-09 20:57:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "How about classic avante garde? or even better, classic futurism :-) \r\nOh
    God, it is oh so last year.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-09 22:07:54'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<cite>>Limitation good\u2026 exclusion bad!\r\nPretty good for an old guy.
    Goes in \u2018best quotes from Typophile\u2019.\r\n\u2014\u2014\r\nI was born
    before Norbert, but I\u2019m young!</cite>\r\n\r\n<strong> I pretty much agree.
    Where do I sign up for the </strong> Gerontophile<strong> forums?\r\n</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-10 00:16:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Someone told me where I could sign up for Gerontophile but at my age, I forget
    easily :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-10 02:19:05'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Perhaps I'm just not cultured enough, but it looks to me like she's not as
    good at what she does as she is at describing what she's done, making up arty-sounding
    reasons for each aspect of whatever dull layered thing she threw together.\r\n\r\n\"I
    needed to choose a typeface with ascenders and descenders for an undulating look.\"
    Wow, now the type choice makes sense, because Helvetica has ascenders <em>and</em>
    descenders. It's perfect. Lucky that such a face existed, because you can't get
    that rise-and-fall effect from, you know...Shotgun, for example. Next she'll explain
    why it was so important that the book cover be rectangular. The parallel sides
    and four 90-degree corners, you see, symbolize structure."
  created: '2005-09-10 10:53:22'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Brilliant\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-10 15:16:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "ha! Cerulean! You slay me. Wonderful.\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2005-09-10 16:43:39'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "Let me quasi-quote.\r\n\r\nPart of a good designer's job is to help the client
    to \u201Csee [invent] the problem\u201D and articulate it with delineation of
    audience [the designer's ego], purpose [get rich, fast], message [newspeak], and
    desired action [jump up and down].\r\n\r\nI'd say she's pretty good."
  created: '2005-09-10 17:07:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I\u2019d say she\u2019s pretty good....\"\r\n\r\nLOL! Good one Sergei
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-10 18:10:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: I think type is many things. I also think people are of many minds. So, when
    you get many things and many minds on the open plains...you get many things on
    many people's minds. Sometimes, they herd together and sometimes they wander off,
    and then there is all the stuff in between. Who is to say what's good without
    a complete definition of WHAT the what is?  E.G. "Is there such a thing as nonexpressive
    type?" , I should hope nearly all text types used for reading more than a few
    ppgs would be so...;)
  created: '2005-09-11 13:16:03'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "While everybody's got a right to their own opinion, I get a little bored
    with the I only use \"these typefaces\" kind of attitude that many so-called \"great\"
    designers say. I'm a designer as well and I find that to be a bit limiting and
    too \"comfortable.\" That'd be like Matisse saying, you know red and blue really
    work for me, so I don't see any reason to use any other colors.\r\n\r\nOr more
    simply put, its like eating grilled cheese for dinner every night. I mean, I like
    grilled cheese, but DODGAMN! I'd put twelve gauge to my head before I'd eat it
    everyday!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-12 07:13:08'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>What's with this whole </strong>Confederacy of the dunces<strong>
    vibe?\r\nSaying one typeface equals one expression is downgrading the potential
    of type. To explore that potential takes time, hard work and talent. \r\n\r\nIf
    You're looking for a </strong>working <strong>metaphor involving Matisse let me
    tell You, it is not the amount of colours that will do the trick. Rather, take
    a look again at his paintings. How many different </strong>styles<strong> do You
    see?</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2005-09-12 12:21:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "When Matisse was too ill to do anything else, he was limited to what his
    weary hands and a pair of scissors would allow.  His color palette was only a
    few colors of stock paper.  With these limitations, he made some very incredible
    work.  The same man, in good health and with all the abilities intact, previously
    had also made some very incredible work using a full range of tools.  A talented
    person can do fabulous work however he works. Once again, it is not the tools,
    it is the person using them who makes the difference.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-12 14:59:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Saying one typeface equals one expression\r\n> is downgrading the potential
    of type.\r\n\r\n1) Nobody said that. Except maybe Tenazas, Vignelli, and others
    with blinders on, chasing a stale carrot.\r\n2) That's still not as bad as limiting
    expression outright.\r\n\r\nTerry, the Matisse metaphor is right on. I was actually
    thinking of comparing this to artificial and impoverishing limitations on color
    choice as well!\r\n\r\nChris, the implication of what you're saying is that Tenazas
    is handicapped. I agree.\r\n\r\nSome of you continue to:\r\n1) confuse talent/skill
    in one area with narrow-mindedness/lethargy in another.\r\nAnd/Or\r\n2) have an
    allergic reaction to dissent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-12 18:02:00'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>Heh... The more the merrier. The more colours You use \u2013 the
    funnier. And better! It's... kind of romantic. It's the stuff You pave the road
    to hell with. \r\n\r\nNot exactly sharing some esoteric information here, but
    limiting the palette is of course not limiting expression, quite the opposite.\r\n\r\nImagine
    Pere Ma\xF1ach, Picasso's art dealer in the early 1900:s. <cite> Mmmmkey Pablooo,
    I see. A bluey-dewey. The last one You showed me was, um, kinda blue. The one
    before was, well, also pretty blue. And the one before \u2013 Yeah \u2013 blue.
    Ever thought about using the full power of an unlimited palette? It would so much
    improve the power of your expression. At least add some green and orange and \u2013
    ooh \u2013 I love California blue. AND maybe some... burgundy? Pleeease? They
    would sell like mad! Instead of these miserable malnourished monochrome clowns\xBF!
    Eh, I can't wait for your rose period...</cite></strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2005-09-13 18:36:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It\u2019s\u2026 kind of romantic.\r\n\r\nYes, romance is bad, bad - it
    does lead straight to hell.\r\nMuch better to wear a straightjacket and put on
    blinders.\r\nBoth black of course: having to choose an actual color\r\nwhen getting
    dressed is way too stressful.\r\n\r\nWhat leads straight to hell (in fact it's
    doing\r\nit right now, globally) is the lust for Control.\r\n\r\n> limiting the
    palette is of course not limiting expression, quite the opposite.\r\n\r\nIt depends
    why you limit it (and noting here that the parallel between painting and typography
    can't be taken very far). The evidence is that Tenazas, Vignelli and their ilk
    probably mostly do it for one reason: they simply can't handle more.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-13 18:49:43'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Yes, Matisse (BTW- my personal hero)... yes, Picasso... and yes, Piet Mondiran
    for showing the unlimited potential of limitation.\r\n\r\nBut aahhhhh... <a href=\"http://www.guggenheimcollection.org/site/artist_work_lg_116_1.html\"
    target=\"new\"><strong>Robert Motherwell</strong></a>! \r\nA chiro-notanic minimalist
    of monumental proportion.\r\n\r\nI loved him before I met him, and even more so
    afterwards. I had the pleasure of being his canvas stretching grunt for two consecutive
    summers while in college. And let me tell you,  constructing and streching 8&#8242;
    x 10&#8242; canvases ain't easy.\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but the people I've met!"
  created: '2005-09-13 18:59:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I so love Motherwell's work! The trouble here is you hit on the \"rainbow-everything-please\"
    crouds worst nightmare--not only FEW colors but just BLACK! \r\nNow if that Motherwell
    guy wasn't such a wuss and could actually handle color, he could have been famous,
    even could have sold \"Sofa-Sized\" oils on TV!\r\n\r\nToo bad Ansel Adams was
    such a colorless guy too, he might have made it as a photographer.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-13 20:36:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Come to think of it, most typography was just black too! Too bad.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-13 20:37:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Typographer General's Warning: Comparing Type and Art too closely is known
    to cause mental confusion and may complicate gestation of intelligent design.\r\n\r\n>
    most typography was just black too! Too bad.\r\n\r\nYou're not kidding.\r\nOnce
    typography truly grasps Gray Power, then it will mature.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-13 20:57:03'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Hey... I think I qualify for Gray Power! though not quite mature.\r\n\r\nChris,\r\nMotherwell
    was not adverse to using color, just not a whole lot at the same time:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.allposters.com/-sp/Blue-elegy-1981_i339356_.htm\">Blue
    Elergy</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.allposters.com/-sp/Mexican-night-1979_i339354_.htm\">Mexican
    Night</a>\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm not too old for the Gray Panthers!"
  created: '2005-09-13 21:35:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Motherwell was not adverse to using color, just not a whole lot at the
    same time\"\r\n\r\nI know, and he used it well. I just think his black stuff was,
    well, ballsey :-)\r\nhttp://www.guggenheimcollection.org/site/artist_work_lg_116_1.html\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-13 22:02:30'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\u201CI think that the less expressive a typeface is, the more creative a
    designer can be with it.\u201D\r\n\r\n\"He [Piet Zwart] said that the simpler
    and more geometric the character, the more useful he found it\"\u2014Lewis Blackwell,
    20th Century Type.\r\n\r\nThis may be a slight diversion, but it always cracks
    me up when a designer puffs their chest and utters something as solemn as this,
    when a little bit of reading reaveals many similar utterances throughout history.
    Ah, the old guys\u2026"
  created: '2005-09-13 23:10:44'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: but is there really such a thing as "nonexpressive type"? i mean even helvetica
    and futura have a lot of character that is their own.
  created: '2005-09-13 23:24:21'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>Take it from one who enjoyed a brief and not necessarily successful
    stint in amateur theater \u2013 If You have a strong concept, You don't want the
    typeface \u2013 unless it's a vital part of the Big Idea \u2013 </strong>to steal
    the focus.<strong> Therefore designers that are visually and conceptually talented
    but slightly typographically challenged tend to prefer the generic so-called less
    expressive typefaces (a mis-nomer, agreed, because there is no such blablabla).
    But it's because they have stood the test of time and been used for so many different
    purposes, their shapes don't exclude anyone. And it can still be really great
    communication art. Anyway, that's my conclusion.\r\nThat said, I've just looked
    at Lucille Tenazas things and couldn't care much for it. Oh, well...</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2005-09-13 23:47:17'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "One mention of Matisse and look what I've done! Shame on me! \r\n\r\nI find
    a few of the older designers who like the tight grid structures (or grid structures
    that are repeated throughout much of their work) have this sort of idea. See:
    Massimo Vignelli and Willi Kunz. \r\n\r\n__________________________\r\n\r\nI may
    be YOUNG, but I love OLD dead artists!"
  created: '2005-09-14 01:18:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I'll tell Willi next time I see him :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-14 01:21:17'
date: '2005-09-08 23:52:33'
title: Expressing yourself with nonexpressive type

---
