---
author:
  name: dan_reynolds
  picture: 110440
body: "Hello everyone. I'm working on a semi-serif display face, which is currently
  unnamed. My working title is \"Teutonia Serif\", because the letterforms are in
  part based on Teutonia, a geometric display face that was cut in Offenbach by the
  Roos & Junge type foundry in 1902.\r\n\r\nI'd love to hear any feedback that anyone
  here might have."
comments:
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "it's lookin good, Dan. very nice. just a few personal preferences: I think
    i'd like k,v,w,x,y,K,V,W,X,Y with just the entry stroke and no exit stroke. i'd
    like to see an atempt to put a serif on the end of the ampersand's arm. i think
    if you're going to serify the 2, you might as well do 3 & 5 as well. keep up the
    good work!\r\np.s. and welcome back!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: as8
      picture: 109877
    body: "Sorry, very fast, I like it, Q tail is weak, S is kind of upside down.\r\n\r\nSee
      you,\r\n\r\nAlessandro Segalini"
    created: '2005-09-09 15:18:14'
  created: '2005-09-09 14:50:25'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Thanks again Paul <cite>[Paul has already seen this design once]</cite>.
    I put exit strokes on the k, v, w, x, y, K, V, W, X, and Y because the overall
    spacing looked really awful without them. The diagonals would bash into the entry-serifs
    of the letters that have them (d, e, g, o, etc don't have top-left serifs\u2026).\r\n\r\nGood
    idea with the ampersand and 3 and 5.\r\n\r\nI'm glad to be back in Germany. France
    is a beautiful country but it is sad to not be able to speak their language :("
  created: '2005-09-09 15:17:04'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: The foot serif of the f doesn't read right to me.
  created: '2005-09-09 17:49:43'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Kevin, I've added an image of four lowercase fs above.\r\n\r\nThe third f
    shows my first f. The fourth shows the current design: I wanted to get some weight
    down there on the baseline. The first two are some other options. do you like
    one of them better?"
  created: '2005-09-09 18:11:14'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i'd say either 2 or 3. the current f almost looks like a stylized E or even
    a sterling symbol.
  created: '2005-09-09 18:15:51'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: I concur. 2 has that baseline sturdiness but is far less confusing.
  created: '2005-09-10 09:10:29'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Paul, I just uploaded a new number-string, with the bottom serif of the 2
    on the 3 and 5 as well. I don't know\u2026 the serif on the top of the 2 and the
    7 would definitely not work on the 5 (not pictured). What do you think?\r\n\r\nBTW,
    are PNG files ok for everybody? I just saved the newest image as a PNG, which
    I've never uploaded before\u2026 they're kosher in every browser sans uralt-IE,
    right?"
  created: '2005-09-10 11:07:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is pretty cool, especially some of the caps. But are you sure you want
    to make the UC [that much] darker? And I think the ascenders should either be
    exactly cap height, or they should be a full \"notch\" higher. I myself would
    go with the latter, as I think it would give the face some added elegance too,
    which would be refreshing.\r\n\r\nf: Your original form has the problem of \"E\"-confusion,
    and it looks like it's leaning backwards. You don't think just the form with no
    serifs at the bottom makes great sense?\r\ng: I wonder if you couldn't do <cite>something</cite>
    with it...\r\ni: I might try removing the half-serif, to somewhat relieve paragraph
    texture of all those top-left half-serifs.\r\nj: Make the tail terminal much stronger.\r\nk:
    Either move the right half-serif to the bottom, or make the leg stronger than
    the arm (maybe by raising the joint height).\r\ns: I would try putting the weight
    in the (horizontal) spine, taking it away from the top-left and bottom-right sidewalls.\r\nt:
    I would make it wider (on the right). This would prevent the bottom looking like
    a half-serif.\r\nu: Maybe move the half-serif from the top-left to the bottom-right.\r\nv,
    w, y: You sure you want half-serifs at the top-rights?\r\nx: I'd give half-serifs
    to the top-left and bottom-right only.\r\neszet: I might dump the nick. And maybe
    make the bottom bowl wider.\r\nB: Narrower top?\r\nD: Killer.\r\nE: Shorter top
    bar.\r\nF: Wider.\r\nJ: Love the nick, but maybe give the bottom a diagonal finish,
    or even an angled stroke, to help recognition.\r\nK: Same as in the lc.\r\nL:
    Shorter up-serif. Wider.\r\nN: Very nice.\r\nQ: No go. Maybe a stub coming straight
    down from the right wall?\r\nT: Wider.\r\nV, W, Y, X: Same as above. And the slant
    in the \"X\" join doesn't work for me. But the \"Y\" is super.\r\nZ: Too much
    like a \"2\".\r\n&: No go.\r\nNums: I like your originals - I'd just dump the
    serif on the \"2\". And make the \"7\" wider. Plus the one needs a straight beak.\r\n?:
    I wonder if you couldn't do something special with it.\r\nEuro: Love it!!\r\nRegistered/Copyright:
    It would be nice if you could make the former [relatively] smaller.\r\n\r\nI can
    see this selling; the texture is compelling.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-11 05:51:55'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Thanks, Hrant. \r\n\r\nI've deleted some of the older attachments above (but
    not the first PDF), and I've added a new PDF that incorporates Hrant's changes
    (it is the PDF with Hrant 1 in the name).\r\n\r\nHrant, I've implemented most
    of your suggestions, sans the u,v,w,x,y (and their respective caps) for now. I
    did raise the ascender height significantly, and I raised the x-height a bit to
    compensate. Note that the lowercase is now relatively narrower."
  created: '2005-09-11 13:13:51'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>I can see this selling; the texture is compelling.</em>\r\n\r\nI hope
    so. I will distribute this face commercially, and hopefully soon. But I haven't
    settled on a vendor yet."
  created: '2005-09-11 13:14:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Interesting effort--this can be a unique look. My feeling is that it doesn't
    quite 'click' yet as far as the relative weights of the horizontal and vertical
    strokes, and as far as the widths--too narrow in the lower case. On the weight,
    I suspect the horizontal and vertical should have less contrast. \r\n\r\nOn the
    serifs on diagonal letters, I think the exit strokes on the caps work, but not
    the lower case. It should be possible to space them without right serifs because
    this kind of thing is on some traditional serifed italics. Kerning probably very
    needed. On the x, you could try the serif on the exit lower right instead of upper
    right. \r\n\r\nThe diagonal cuts on the stem of the D look good, but out of place.
    In think it would be better either made to conform with the rest, or change others
    to conform with it.\r\n\r\nThe bottom of the S looks squashed; I would make it
    more like the lower case s. The join of the P bowl at the bottom is too low, it
    threatens to become a D. Should the cap X have serifs on the bottom too? Right
    bottom of N distracting. K too wide? M not wide enough? Serif on the lower E bar
    looks way too heavy. The one serif on the H looks lonely, it needs bottom right
    or all four, maybe. \r\n\r\nThe lc e might look better wider. I think when you
    divide the letter & have the smaller counters it needs width for balance. \r\n\r\nOverall,
    I think this is very promising, but needs a lot of work on relative width of characters
    and weight of strokes and where to put serifs & their length to look really balanced
    and good. Varying more the widths of characters and lengths of serifs will eventually
    get everything to look more optically uniform and balanced. Being more physically
    uniform will always look awkward. \r\n\r\nBecause it is a good concept, it demands
    a lot of work to bring it to its full potential. You will see new things every
    day for months, and then it will be what you want. \r\n\r\nGood luck!\r\n\r\n
    \ \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-11 16:10:22'
- author:
    name: oribendor
    picture: 110846
  body: The (u.c.) P is the weakest link, I think. Perhaps because of the serif at
    the bottom, which the R lacks, the bowl looks too big and too close to the bottom.
    It even took me a while to recognize it was a P.
  created: '2005-09-14 07:23:53'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "William, I've attached a new PDF to the lead thread of this post. The PDF
    is called \"drupal,\" but it should be called \"Teutonia Serif 3-William 1.pdf\"\u2026
    anyway, in that PDF, I've begun address your points in your post above. I think
    that the uppercase may be a bit, too heavy now. What do you think?\r\n\r\nOri,
    I've changed the uppercase P a bit, too."
  created: '2005-10-09 14:21:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Dan, it's progressing well. I don't think the upper case is too heavy; in
    the current state it's working better than the lower case. The whole design is
    going to be very assertive because of its squareness, so I would say just go with
    it. \r\n\r\nMy only current problems with the upper case letter forms as far as
    balance are the vertical serifs on the bottom of the E and L, and the horizontal
    serif on the T. The vertical serifs look to heavy. I would thin them slightly.
    I think they can be subtly thinner than the other verticals, because they are
    serifs. The T starts to read as an I, which is distracting. Your F doesn't have
    a foot serif, and I suspect the T will do fine without it. \r\n\r\nOn the lower
    case, I think the basic forms are good now. The vertical serifs on the c and r
    might be thinned slightly like the E and L on the upper case. or maybe only the
    c serif. \r\n\r\nThe striking thing is that now the lower case, while wider has
    way too much 'dazzle'in the smaller size. Currently there is an optical illusion
    of the corners having hairlines shooting from them, which is surprising. I suspect
    this has to do with the weight of it --did you increase the weight? --but particularly
    with too tight spacing.  \r\n\r\nI think you have a lot of spacing issues, on
    both the upper and lower case, but it's affecting the lower case most. On the
    upper case alphabet, for example, the HIJ look much tighter than your MON. You
    might have to adjust your serifs, like the top of the J in order to get everything
    to work. \r\n\r\nMy suspicion is that the lower case would be better lighter,
    but mainly with looser spacing. I guess you need to figure what is the minimum
    size you want this used at, and then work on it accordingly. Again the spacing
    on the lower case is quite uneven. For example in the alphabet the nop are much
    looser than the lmn. I would loosen the latter rather than tighten the former,
    because of the dazzle issue, but basically see what works.\r\n\r\nI think at this
    point working on the spacing is key, because that will also tell you what letter
    forms or weights you need to modify as well. \r\n\r\nSo overall, I think you have
    the basic letter forms down pretty well, and the issue is spacing and color--both
    the overall darkness, and  particular the issue of evenness. \r\n\r\nOn evenness,
    is your eszett too dark on the top? Maybe try thinning the left vertical slightly,
    and the diagonal? The thing is, to get evenness of color--and I think that it
    the main challenge at this point--you will probably need to vary the width of
    stems slightly, as well as respace. For example the B stem is often thinned slightly.
    Playing around with this kind of stuff and getting right will make  this design
    'itself' and polished. \r\n\r\nOne thing you might think about to get the direction
    is what this will be used for. Sports? Bands? That mood might help guide you in
    finishing it.      \r\n\r\n\r\n  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-09 16:17:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nIt has a nice blackletter updated look which does not surprise me
    coming from you. Besides the metal bands angle William mentioned, I think it has
    a nice between bitmap and PostScript niche. \r\n\r\n I can't seem to get the Drupa
    file for some reason, I am using Safari.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-13 22:56:15'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Hmmm\u2026 Chris, it downloads for me in Safari 2.0 (Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger)\u2026
    so sad!\r\n\r\nI've uploaded the file to my web space. Here is a link to it:\r\nhttp://www.typeoff.de/dan_personal/Teutonia_Serif_3-William_1.pdf\r\n\r\nI'll
    be posting an updated PDF soon, which will reflect William's most recent suggestions."
  created: '2005-10-14 06:22:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nI got it now!  Looks good too! The more I look at it the better I
    like it.  It does a Russian Costructivist thing with Blackletter.  It has that
    El Lizzitsky feel but with the warmth of manuscript illumination.  Let me know
    when it is for sale and who you are selling it through, I will buy it for sure.\r\nMy
    only crit is that the weight of the caps seems a bit too heavy for the lower case.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-14 14:33:32'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I've got a thing about this Russian Constructivist style\u2026 a lot of fonts
    billed as \"Russian Constructivist\" were actually made in <em>fin-de-si\xE8cle</em>
    Germany. (The basic model for this face included).\r\n\r\nMy theory, which I need
    to investigate, is this: these forward-thinking German Display Faces were not
    really accepted or used in Germany at the time. People tended more toward organic
    art nouveau things. Then during and after World War I, a lot of display work moved
    (back?) into solid calligraphic blackletter styles, a la Rudolf Koch.\r\n\r\nBut
    German typefoundries did big buisness with printers in Czarist Russia. Somehow,
    these types must have gotten to Russia <strong>before</strong> the revolution
    (because international trade shut down after it\u2026). I suspect that, when the
    Bolsheviks took over, things kept being printed in typefaces that were on hand.
    It must have taken a while for new \"Soviet\" types to be cast.\r\n\r\nOr maybe
    Russian designers and typefounders just copied and changed similar European designs?
    Perhaps it wasn't so commercial. But I still think it is pre-revolution.\r\n\r\nBy
    the 1930s, I think that what a lot of what westerners typically think of as \"Russian
    Constructivist\" was gone. I think that the Stalinist regime had other ideas of
    what Soviet design should look like. But I can't speak with any authority on Russian
    typography. Paul? Anybody?"
  created: '2005-10-14 14:42:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: looks good, dan. just a few comments (personal preferences if you will). The
    tail of the Q is bothering me. Maybe come up with a different solution. I didn't
    think the original was so bad... I know i said to add a serif to the ampersand,
    but that looks just a bit ackward. Maybe try finetuning it just a bit more. And
    I like the bar you put on the J, nice touch!
  created: '2005-10-14 14:44:47'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "So, since my audience isn't Russian or Cyrillic, I'd rather go to the \"roots\"
    of this style. The result is something different than constructivist, I think,
    because there is still some art nouveau and blackletter traces in there (and there
    would me even more if I had some long-s lgatures\u2026)."
  created: '2005-10-14 14:46:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Russian Avant Garde movement with Rodchenko, Malevich, and El Lizzitsky,
    et al., with Supremacists bloomed in the early revolutionary time.  There was
    also interaction with the Dutch De Stihl.  Stalin wasn't a fan of many of these
    guys (I think he thought them to be too intellectual for the \"worker\" and pushed
    for a national worker style. The Bauhaus people were fans however and you can
    see the relationship. To me, this was a design culture which blurred national
    borders.  Later, Stalin kibashed the Russian avant garde and Hitler in time did
    the same to the Bauhaus gang.  Nationalism triumphed over the young cutting edge
    designers. Later, the Basel folks \"rediscovered\" El Lizzitsky and Rodchenko
    and their typography reflected that. The so-called \"New Wave\" designers of the
    80's grew out of this extension with designers like Dan Friedman and April Greiman.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-14 15:00:47'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Willam, Paul, Chris\u2026 in this thread's first post is a new PDF, called
    \"teutonia_serif_3_will_2.pdf\".\r\n\r\nWilliam's <em>Sun, 2005-10-09 17:17</em>
    items are addressed here, including the E and the L serifs, the T, the c, the
    r, and some overall spacing.\r\n\r\nFor Paul I've changed the Q and the ampersand.\r\n\r\nChris,
    I didn't thin out the uppercase any yet. I'm not sure what I'm going to do there
    (see my discussion with William above).\r\n\r\nWilliam, because of the audience
    of the foundry who'll most likely distribute this, I'm assuming that the primary
    customers will be indy music and fashion clients. Sports is unlikely."
  created: '2005-10-17 08:42:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nI think your latest looks better.  The spacing is very blackletter
    and part of its charm.\r\nThe lc e looks like the right upper vertical needs to
    be thinned a hair to correct optically withe the taller vertical at left.  I am
    sure that they are actually the exact same thickness now. The illusion makes the
    right side look thicker though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-20 23:57:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nHow is this going? The other day I saw a book at an opera director's
    house which was old and perhaps used the precursor font you mentioned above.  It
    was a German book on German music.  I will try to borrow it to make a scan.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-12 03:35:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Just got back from travelling. I like the revisions. The upper case E is
    \  especially better--making the lower arm longer really works here.\r\n\r\nGood
    luck with it.  "
  created: '2005-11-17 23:22:56'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Good work Dan.\r\nI'll make only one comment concerning your D. To me he's
    look out of the game, although it could gave some personality to the face. He
    is the only glyph with cutted stem and his angle looks like a calligraphic letter.
    Did you try to simply join this stem with the top and the bottom arms?"
  created: '2005-11-19 12:34:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"It was a German book on German music.\"\r\n\r\nDan, I was wrong on 2 counts,
    it was an English book on Oscar wilde!\r\nHere is the scan:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/oscar
    wilde.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-20 17:53:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...only glyph with cutted stem and his angle looks like a calligraphic
    letter\"\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9,\r\nI think Dan might be trying to stay true to the original
    which inspired his design.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-20 17:58:35'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Chris, the type on that bookcover is a revival of Teutonia, which I have
    also already revived\u2026 Mine will be released by a small German foundry sometime
    in 2006, but under a different name\u2014probably \"Mountain.\"\r\n\r\n(Mountain
    includes small caps & obliques\u2026 of course R&J's 1902 original \"Teutonia\"
    didn't have anything in the way of additions or ornament. So far, I think only
    Paul Hunt here as seen it\u2026 I don't want to publicly display it, since it's
    initial marketing is in the hands of its foundry. I'll make some small hoopla
    about it when it debuts for sale online)\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9, Chris is correct in
    that the D in Teutonia Serif harkens back to the original Teutonia's quirkiness.
    But you are right, it doesn't fit in with the design. Teutonia Serif (which will
    someday have a wicked-cool name\u2026) is its own design, a design with a clear
    inspiration, but no longer a revival. I've changed the D."
  created: '2005-11-20 18:10:18'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Sorry Dan, I did'nt see the original D.\r\n\r\nEdit: but I still think, event
    though it's different from the original typeface, you could change the way the
    D is done."
  created: '2005-11-21 00:32:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Andr\xE9, you were right, so I wrote at the end of my last post that I would
    in fact change the D (see the post right above yours, or two before this one)!
    I'll post a PDF in a few hours."
  created: '2005-11-21 05:34:22'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "A new PDF can be seen here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typeoff.de/dan_personal/teutonia_serif_4-Jochen_1.pdf"
  created: '2005-11-21 08:57:45'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: Dan, your last send with the new D is really good and more intregrate to the
    entire face.
  created: '2005-11-21 12:54:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Looks very good Dan! Best of luck with the forthcoming distribution.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-21 13:37:15'
date: '2005-09-09 13:29:52'
files:
- filename: teutonia-serif-1.gif
  uri: public://old-images/teutonia-serif-1.gif
- filename: teutonia serif.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/teutonia serif.pdf
- filename: teutonia-serif-fs.gif
  uri: public://old-images/teutonia-serif-fs.gif
- filename: new-number-string.png
  uri: public://old-images/new-number-string.png
- filename: teutonia serif 2-Hrant 1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/teutonia serif 2-Hrant 1.pdf
- filename: drupal_60
  uri: public://old-images/drupal_60
- filename: drupal_61
  uri: public://old-images/drupal_61
- filename: teutonia_serif_3_will_2.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/teutonia_serif_3_will_2.pdf
- filename: teutonia_serif_3_will_2_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/teutonia_serif_3_will_2_0.pdf
- filename: teutonia_serif_3_will_2_1.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/teutonia_serif_3_will_2_1.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Teutonia Serif

---
