---
author:
  name: Jennifer E. Dahl
  picture: 110983
body: "Hey,\r\nI'm redesigning a magazine. Anyone have any favorite sans serifs that
  aren't helvetica, gill, futura or bell gothic? "
comments:
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Optima (or Optima Nova) by Hermann Zapf is very nice. Almost looks like a
    Palatino on vacation. \r\n\r\nFrutiger (or Frutiger Next) is a gorgeous, readable
    sans. A work of genius.\r\n\r\nYou might also try TheSans. Calibri looks good
    as well, although it's more of a screen font.\r\n\r\nSo, consider Optima and Frutiger."
  created: '2005-09-14 16:18:42'
- author:
    name: Guerella
    picture: 110740
  body: Franklin Gothic
  created: '2005-09-14 16:25:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Our favorites are a lot less important than what the magazine <cite>needs</cite>.\r\nTell
    us as much as you can about it, and its readers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-14 16:46:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Gotham, Whitney, The Sans, Interstate, FF Din. But as Hrant pointed out, your
    type choice should be a reflection of the audience.
  created: '2005-09-14 16:51:10'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "my old favorite: <a href=\"http://houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=18\">Neutraface</a>\r\nmy
    new favorite: <a href=\"http://www.ms-studio.com/FontSales/proximanova.html\">Proxima
    Nova</a>"
  created: '2005-09-14 17:16:43'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: hrant makes a good point. Please provide details.
  created: '2005-09-14 17:28:37'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "&#9830; <em>I\u2019m redesigning a magazine. </em>\r\n -- Great! Good luck.\r\n&#9829;
    <em>Anyone have any favorite sans serifs(?)</em>\r\n -- Yes.\r\n\r\n-------------------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I've answered your question!"
  created: '2005-09-14 18:30:32'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: "thanks for the ideas. \r\nyes, better serving the audience and needs of the
    magazine is the point of the redesign. I'll have a look at these and see if anything
    will work for me. I love type geeks!!"
  created: '2005-09-14 19:37:21'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Jennifer who is reading your magazine. Is it teenagers, (Norberts), business
    types, origami folders. You can''t make suggestions without basic information
    or else it just becomes a beauty contest. '
  created: '2005-09-14 21:26:12'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "&#9674; <em>Jennifer who is reading your magazine. Is it teenagers, (Norberts),
    business types, origami folders.</em>\r\n\r\nHey Dan! Is there a magazine base
    just for Norberts?\r\nThat ought to be a subscription base of about 103.\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-14 21:38:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: If there were a Norbert mag, the odd Nick might also buy it.
  created: '2005-09-14 21:53:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Then if Chris buys it too, it might be called Geezer Times :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-14 22:15:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jennifer,\r\n\r\nFavorite fonts are all over the board. Think about audience
    fit and the content first.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-14 22:16:55'
- author:
    name: Aron Hoag
    picture: 110512
  body: "Trade Gothic:\r\nThe working man's typeface; hardworking and durable."
  created: '2005-09-15 05:05:14'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: "Jennifer,\r\n\r\nI don't usually don't like to pick my own designs as favourites,
    but \"Stalemate\" or \"Sophisto\" might work for this redesign of yours? Have
    a look yourself at:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.macrhino.com\r\n\r\nCheers"
  created: '2005-09-15 05:50:41'
- author:
    name: Stefan H
    picture: 109742
  body: sorry... one "don't" too much for sure :-)
  created: '2005-09-15 05:51:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sophisto is a strong, readable face with a broad glyph set. Thanks for mentioning
    it (\"don'ts\" and all). Even if Jennifer doesn't use it, I will keep it in mind
    for future projects.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-15 12:59:34'
- author:
    name: locus
    picture: 110840
  body: Franklin Gothic, Myriad Pro.
  created: '2005-09-15 14:03:07'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: Akzidenz Grotesk the daddy of the sans... Franklin Gothic is the Bold by the
    way.... I like the whole original ATF family Lightline Gothic, News Gothic, and
    Franklin Gothic not the ITC renamed Franklin digital bollocks.
  created: '2005-09-15 14:32:49'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "The list so far (in no particular order):\r\n\r\nAkzidenz Grotesk\r\nFranklin
    Gothic\r\nTrade Gothic\r\nATF Lightline Gothic\r\nATF News Gothic\r\nATF Franklin
    Gothic\r\nMyriad Pro\r\nSophisto\r\nStalemate\r\nOptima (or Optima Nova)\r\nFrutiger
    (or Frutiger NEXT)\r\nTheSans\r\nNeutraface\r\nProxima Nova\r\nGotham\r\nWhitney
    \r\nInterstate\r\nFF Din\r\n\r\nQuite a list. I can name at least seven in there
    that are particularly good. Hehe, you've got your work cut out for you, Jennifer."
  created: '2005-09-15 15:02:17'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Lots of good choices. Like people say, you need to choose what is right for
    your application.\r\n\r\nSince we are discussing sans again, I'd like to hear
    comments on Charlotte Sans, and add Nick's Brown Gothic to the list.\r\n\r\nPalatine
    you Ascended Master. You are creeping me out with that avatar. "
  created: '2005-09-15 15:31:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you\u2019ve got your work cut out for you\r\n\r\nWhich is of course exactly
    why we need to know the nature of the magazine and its readers - to focus the
    search and come up with something really good, not just something that happens
    to appeal to you or me, or happens to be handy. Gone are the days where you looked
    to your type drawers and chose one of the three sans fonts you had. Way.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-15 15:32:43'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "jupiterboy:\r\n\r\nHehe, I didn't mean to creep anyone out. I don't usually
    advertise it, but I AM what the avatar suggests. \r\n\r\nI chose that avatar because
    I just couldn't resist how the square and compasses revolve like that.\r\n\r\nFunnily
    enough, my *renewed* interest in typography has a Masonic connection. One of our
    lodge members and I were discussing the layout of our summons. I had a look at
    it and noticed that everything was justified. I commented that full justification
    of text is a bad habit (well, in many cases.) Our friendly debate lasted well
    into the night, and lasted through a number of glasses of wine. We had a good
    time. As soon as my copy of Bringhurst's work arrives, I'll share it with him.\r\n\r\nNow
    back to our own discussion of sans fonts.  "
  created: '2005-09-15 16:05:12'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "So I'd like to see the Masons drop the \"G\" and go with \"YOD\". Any chance?
    Sort of a restoration impulse?\r\n\r\nNow back to our discussion of sans fonts."
  created: '2005-09-15 17:10:12'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "The letter \"G\" is typically seen in most Craft (or Blue) lodges. But the
    YOD letter is retained, or rather, it makes an appearance, in the ceremonies of
    higher Masonic degrees.\r\n\r\nChanges in Masonry happen very slowly. It is unlikely
    that the \"G\" will be dropped anytime soon (I'm talking in lifetimes, here),
    for this letter is wedded to our 1-3rd degree rituals as well as the ceremonial
    opening and closing of our lodges."
  created: '2005-09-15 17:29:53'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Christian,\r\n\r\nHow's that taking-over-the-world business coming along.
    \ Any progress yet?  ;)"
  created: '2005-09-15 17:51:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But could you switch to the lc \"g\"? It <cite>is</cite> the\r\nmost interesting
    glyph in [Latin] type design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-15 18:06:07'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "antiphrasis: \r\n\r\nHasn't happened yet. It's enough trouble organizaing
    a joint vacation, never mind global domination. ;-)\r\n\r\nhrant:\r\n\r\nI agree
    that the lc \"g\" is interesting. It's oddly beautiful. But the subject that the
    letter g represents makes a captial g (G) more appropriate."
  created: '2005-09-15 18:35:29'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: ">But could you switch to the lc \u201Cg\u201D?\r\n\r\nSee they pull people
    in by telling them the \"G\" stands for God (comfortable for your basic protestant
    business Joe). So a lower case \"G\" won't do as that would imply polytheism.
    Later they go to YOD, then even later Osiris/phallus symbolism. They are building
    civilization on the Egyptian model, which requires monotheism as a founding principle
    through which all perceived power flows.\r\n\r\nI'll stop so they won't take me
    to Canada and whack me ; )\r\n\r\nWhat level of initiation are you at Christian?"
  created: '2005-09-15 19:21:45'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "&#916; <em>What level of initiation are you at Christian?</em>\r\n\r\nOnly
    if it has something to do with sans serifs in the rites!  &#8472;\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-15 19:46:23'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "I'ave always been fond of this combination:\r\nATF Raleigh Gothic Condensed,
    which works beautifully with Franklin Gothic Demi and Minion for a light serif
    contrast."
  created: '2005-09-15 21:00:23'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "jupiterboy:\r\n\r\nI was made a Master Mason in January.\r\n\r\nIf I'm not
    mistaken, our summons is done in Galliard. I'm not sure which version, although
    since I don't see any small caps/osf faces I'm assuming its ITC or some other
    version, not the nice Carter & Cone.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-15 22:59:18'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: 'Of course I have a lot of favorite sans serif typeface. I love this one,
    this one and also that one. Do not forget Parisine from JF Porchez a really efficiency
    one. As others wrote: first question, who will read?'
  created: '2005-09-16 00:35:10'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Christian,\r\n\r\nThanks, let me know when the time is near and I'll join.
    \ ;)"
  created: '2005-09-16 00:45:49'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "*puts goat mask back in the closet*\r\n\r\nOh, ok, sure. ;-)"
  created: '2005-09-16 02:16:44'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I thought it was a goat skin apron ; )
  created: '2005-09-16 14:16:27'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "The apron is lambskin. \r\n\r\nI just made a joke about the goat mask because
    it is assumed that we use alot of goat symbology. At least in the Craft lodge
    there isn't any. I doubt that there is any in Scottish Rite or York Rite, but
    I haven't checked.\r\n\r\nOk, back to work. But before I go, I'd like to add Avenir
    (or Avenir NEXT) to the list. Another landmark achievement by Adrian Frutiger.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-16 14:39:55'
- author:
    name: solling
  body: "OK, so I'm redesigning a magazine.\r\n\r\nIt's a business magazine.\r\n\r\nThe
    demographic is 24-40, management/skilled/educated, heavily digital, mostly men
    (surprise!), and focussed on financials, techno gadgetry, management/sales/marketing
    advice, regional trends, and simplicity.\r\n\r\nThe market historically is a provincial
    rah-rah town. \"But now, it's really becoming a different city!\"\r\n\r\n It's
    currently (mainly) an Akzedenz book.\r\n\r\nHere's my formation of the problem:
    If the magazine is to be distinct, and, if \"it's really becoming a different
    city\" then maybe something less common than Akzedenz, something more cosmopolitan,
    something with some curves, some sophistication, would make the book uncommon,
    more thrilling, more of an artifact, than it currently is in dear ole Akzedenz
    . . . \r\n\r\n- and it's gotta be a sans, because \"sans is, like, it's like the
    web.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n(a pie of evil is still a pie.)\r\n\r\nAny helpful comments
    would be . . . most helpful.\r\n\r\n\r\n-yes, my first post. I very much enjoy
    typophile. thanks go out to vurt and anorak for mentioning it often enough to
    finally get me here."
  created: '2005-09-18 03:32:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Syntax\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-18 04:03:15'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Solling:\r\n\r\nOptima (or Optima Nova for a bit more variety.) A sans with
    some stylish curves. Definitely upscale."
  children:
  - author:
      name: solling
    body: "I'll look at syntax in a minute.\r\n\r\nOptima is too dentists office,
      seems inevitably linked in my mind with Souvenir, and the inevitable followup
      of Eras.\r\n\r\nSyntax is pretty optima-like, too. \r\n\r\nThese faces are fine
      in and of themselves, but do not go far enough, or seem to have enough weights
      in their families.\r\n\r\nI have been looking at Gotham. Am I a hipster doofus?"
    created: '2005-09-18 05:14:49'
  created: '2005-09-18 04:16:38'
- author:
    name: gordon
  body: "hi,\r\n\r\nmy favourite is meta so far. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: solling
    body: "meta: interesting. looks fairly condensed right out of the box, though.\r\n\r\nI'll
      go see the fontfont examples."
    created: '2005-09-18 21:23:00'
  created: '2005-09-18 06:45:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gotham is a very good font.  It does not seem to be the \"grabber\" like
    font you described though. I don't see any similarity between Optima and Syntax
    though. There is about as much similarity as there is between Gotham and AG which
    you are trying to get away from. \r\nYou might look at Luc's Thesis if you want
    a very broad range of weights.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-18 21:39:30'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Here's a recent thread that compiled a list of humanist sans, with links
    to samples. (You have to scroll down a ways.)\r\n\r\nMany of the faces listed
    fit your desire for \"something more cosmopolitan, something with some curves,
    some sophistication...\"\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/13281"
  created: '2005-09-19 00:21:01'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Alright, I give in: if Optima isn't your thing, then I'll cast my vote for
    meta (FF meta) as well. It's a solid, progressive sans. I really can't argue against
    it.\r\n\r\nJust a note about Optima:\r\n\r\nDon't forget that of all the well-known
    sans faces, Optima is unique: It is a sans that is nearly a serif. It is probably
    the most elegant sans face I have seen. I wouldn't be far off the mark by saying
    that Optima is a sans version of Palatino. And Palatino is, with aknowledged subjectivity,
    the greatest serif face ever designed. It retains most of its charm in its digitized
    version (yes, updated charm, but still looking good), and in light of the absolute
    farce that is digitized Bembo and Centaur, that's saying alot.\r\n\r\nJust in
    case you're interested in a *good* Palatino, look no further than the version
    (Linotype) sold at Adobe: PalatinoLTstd. Decent variety, sc/osf included, of course.\r\n\r\nBut
    yes, meta would be a good choice for a sans."
  created: '2005-09-19 00:52:55'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Solling,\r\n\r\nTake a look at Parisine\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typofonderie.com/alphabets/view/Parisine"
  created: '2005-09-19 01:05:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It is probably the most elegant sans face I have seen.\r\n\r\nExcept you
    can't make soup with elegant.\r\n\r\n> Palatino is, with aknowledged subjectivity,\r\n>
    the greatest serif face ever designed.\r\n\r\n{Polite coughing sounds.}\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-19 01:16:43'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "**shhhh**  !!!!\r\n\r\nDon't ruin my Palatino fanboyism! \r\n\r\nSeriously,
    though, I'd love to hear your opinion of Palatino. I've been following your posts
    off and on for over a year now, and if I want to hear anyone's opinion (with due
    respect to all the typophiles here) it's yours."
  created: '2005-09-19 01:25:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't know about that. Remember, I know very little about actually <cite>using</cite>
    type. But thanks.\r\n\r\nTo be fair, I think Palatino has a lot going for it.
    It has arguably suffered the least from -and continues to serve well after- its
    \"Laser 35\" ubiquity. On the other hand, it has unfairly upstaged Aldus, its
    more textish sibling. Basically, its x-height is too big* and that limits it more
    to larger point sizes. Admittedly however that suits its calligraphic nature (the
    type of thing that looks best large... kinda like a dumb blonde though). Speaking
    of its calligraphic aspect, the most memorable experience I've had with Palatino
    is holding some sorts from a large metal size of it in my palm, and not being
    able to help feel \"this is wrong\"; on some level it just doesn't seem right
    to have such shapes carved/cast into a metal parallelepiped.\r\n\r\n* Which might
    have still made it great for really small point sizes, except its spacing isn't
    loose enough for that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-19 02:03:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"And Palatino is, with aknowledged subjectivity, the greatest serif face
    ever designed.\"\r\n\r\nMy personal opinion, which is no more valid than anyone
    else's, is that Palatino is the face I am least likely to ever use.  This is just
    my gut reaction and it hasn't changed since I first saw the face over 40 years
    ago.  Optima is much better but a bit too weak for me as a text face. Melior was
    a better face as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-19 03:37:42'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "dezcom:\r\n\r\nI like Melior as well. Is it jsut me, or is there no sc/osf
    with Melior? I'm rather partial to the extra goodies that Melior seems to lack.\r\n\r\nhrant:\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the food for thought! \r\n\r\nAgreed. As I understand it, Aldus (which I used
    once upon a time) was actually meant as a text-complement to Palatino. For some
    reason, however, I'm partial to fonts with a relatively larger x-height. I'm not
    a fan of long ascenders. I find Aldus rather anemic. I realize I'm blaspheming
    against a proven classic, but perhaps my love of Palatino is more personal than
    objective."
  created: '2005-09-19 03:47:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Hey there, Jennifer ... Check out <a href="http://www.joshuadarden.com/shop/fsans.php">Freight
    Sans</a> ... Gorgeous! '
  children:
  - author:
      name: Palatine
      picture: 110988
    body: Indeed. Nice find!
    created: '2005-09-19 11:25:03'
  created: '2005-09-19 09:11:58'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I'll throw <a href=\"http://www.typography.net/type/bliss.htm\">Bliss</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.typography.net/type/aspect.htm\">Aspect</a> into the
    hat.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-09-19 14:53:43'
- author:
    name: solling
  body: " . . . from my perspective, Palatino is GREAT - \r\n\r\n - the best thing
    to ever come along, right after Times, my other font at the time, along with Helvetica
    and Zaph Chancery.\r\n\r\nThen we got Palatino, and somewhere in there, we got
    Adobe Garamond, closely followed by Univers, Futura, Eurostyle, and the whole
    world was set alight . . . soewhere in there, I started using CTP workflow . .
    .\r\n\r\n- so, I'm over Palatino for now, and moving on to joining this market
    I'm in to the national and international markets. I need something that will play
    distinctively with national ads, which everyone is dying for hereabouts, something
    that will show local advertisers that  they need to class up their layouts, get
    with the program, etc. . . . "
  created: '2005-09-19 15:55:28'
- author:
    name: jay
    picture: 110472
  body: I've been using formata a lot lately. A little flair to the strokes, ala optima,
    but w/o optima's medical odor.
  created: '2005-09-19 15:57:54'
- author:
    name: solling
  body: 'BTW: I''m waiting to see Pal come back around, just like those old Adobe
    Garamond Apple layouts, way back in the Day . . . and someone must be using souviner,
    and using it well, in an orange and brown, or, mauve and grey, layout somewhere
    . . .'
  created: '2005-09-19 15:58:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When will Pascal be released digitally?!\r\nIt's to Optima what St\xE9phanie
    is to Princess Grace.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-19 17:30:05'
- author:
    name: satya
    picture: 111785
  body: I love neo sans.
  created: '2006-08-02 22:54:52'
- author:
    name: NiceTry
    picture: 110937
  body: "The experts agree, Berthold Akzidenz-Grotesk is very handy, .\r\n\r\nDTL
    Prokyon Pro is a nice one too, but not so common. Get it here: \r\nhttp://www.dutchtypelibrary.nl/\r\n\r\nI
    like this one too, but I haven't used it yet: Franklin with a nice, jagged chip
    on its shoulder: http://www.type.fi/SuomiFranklin.html\r\n\r\nI agree that Freight
    is a great one, it was clearly made for a magazine. I am eager to use it. But
    it is a massive amount of type to work with \u2013 too much perhaps. No OpenType
    either. Intimidating.  "
  created: '2006-08-03 19:29:57'
- author:
    name: leonpmc
  body: FF Transit has an attractive flow and superior legibility. Its versatility
    and stickyness make it useful for a wide variety of audiences. I have found the
    response ratios to be quite favorable while using Transit in different types of
    marketing and campaign materials.
  created: '2006-08-09 09:12:10'
- author:
    name: Jennifer E. Dahl
    picture: 110983
  body: I just found this old thread and thought some of you might be interested in
    knowing that I ended up going with Gotham for this project. Your suggestion here
    were very helpful. Thanks Typophiles!
  created: '2010-03-02 18:42:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Better late than never!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-02 18:52:16'
date: '2005-09-14 16:09:24'
node_type: forum
title: whats your favorite sans serif

---
