---
author:
  name: George Horton
body: "This Aldine lowercase has been partly repaired after disastrous alterations,
  but I no longer think it has sufficient intrinsic character to be worth going on
  with.\r\nGeorge"
comments:
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "George,\r\n\r\nthis looks good, the forms are very lively. I like the 'g'
    a lot\r\n\r\nI'd alter the top of the 'e' as it looks as if its leaning to the
    right a little, and adjust the baseline/x-height overshoot of the rounded forms
    such as 'o' 'e' etc. At the moment they appear to float above the baseline. Similarly
    the alignment of certain letters to the x-height is a bit variable, see for example
    the 'ng' and 'wn' combinations. The terminal of the 'j' could benefit from an
    approach closer, but not identical, to what you've done with the 'y' as it seems
    a little unsure of itself at the moment\r\n\r\nhope this is of some use\r\n\r\nI
    think the finished article will make for very comfortable reading.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: "Dear Chris,\r\nThanks very much for your help - your comments were perfectly
      accurate.  A revised PDF is up.\r\nGeorge"
    created: '2005-09-21 13:49:08'
  created: '2005-09-21 10:41:44'
- author:
    name: point918
  body: "George\r\n\r\nThe old-face irregularities in this font give it a pleasant
    warmth and \u2013 I agree with Chris G \u2013 make for a comfortable read. I would
    counsel against over-polishing it, as digital tools tend to encourage. The one
    thing that caught my eye (in a negative sense) in the test setting was the y.
    I wonder if the counter isn't just a tad small and contributing to the sensation
    that the long diagonal is too long ... in detail the terminal also seems tentative;
    unresolved in the context of the decisive and crisply cut serifs elsewhere in
    the face\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: "Dear point918,\r\nI've warmed it up further by reducing the concavity of
      serifs - discarding what is only a gimic without Baroque letterforms.  But this
      tends towards, not away from, digital regularity.  In fact I don't want irregularities
      in the sense of a pseudo-random scattering of yokelish accidents.  Rather, I
      want to avoid constructivist letterforms.\r\n\r\nYou're right about y, I've
      enlarged the counter: thanks.\r\n\r\nGeorge"
    created: '2005-09-23 15:25:58'
  created: '2005-09-23 13:31:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "The problem with doing any sort of a revival is how to introduce your own
    ideas into it. Without introducing your own ideas into the design you risk being
    to obedient to the original and then you are stuck with the problem of lack of
    originality.\r\n\r\nI wouldn't remove the concave shapes, rather I'd figure out
    a way to introduce that elsewhere. "
  created: '2005-09-23 20:35:51'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Miss Tiffany,\r\nThis isn't a revival of any design but rather a type developed
    independently, within the framework that Griffo invented: the motivation behind
    the letterform is roman-calligraphic, but this motivation is expressed through
    typographic marks, including typographically shaped serifs.  Rather than ideas
    I have brought my taste to the design.  Originality hasn't been a aim, though
    mamillius does have a character in text different to those of existing types.
    \ And I think those concavities were pretty gross.\r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-09-23 22:03:55'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Hi George.\r\n\r\nThis is really well done. On a structural level, the proportions
    and color look good. Here are a few areas to take a look at:\r\n\r\nh,m,n: the
    right legs seem a tad to bow-legged for my taste.\r\nz: bottom is slightly long\r\ny:
    agree with Point's above comments\r\ndecenders: slightly too long I think. (will
    help the y too)\r\n\r\nThe next thing I think you should work on is the quality
    of the outlines. On the whole they look wobbly. You miss this at text sizes where
    things look fine, but look to the terminals of the s to see what I mean. Here
    are a few areas to look at: \r\n\r\ns: The spine looks fine. Nice and smooth curves.
    It gets ugly from there. The terminals (especially the top one) are very uncertain.
    Pick a line and go with it :-) Maybe look at your f/j terminals or z for inspiration.
    The curves in the counters are bad... too square. (Perhaps you adjusted the overshoot
    by dragging down the top points without adjusting the beziers?) Rework them so
    they flow with the same grace as the spine.\r\n\r\nt: upper left is wobbly\r\n\r\nThere
    are many places where I expect a single curve, but find an s shape.\r\n\r\nYou
    have three kinds of serf endings. Why? Some of the head serifs have totally rounded
    tips (p), some have corners and bowed sides, while others have corners and flat
    sides? You don't pick this up at text sizes but these are the kinds of things
    that make a quality face IMHO.\r\n\r\nI wouldn't mind seeing more pen in the punctuation
    ie not perfect circles.\r\n\r\nAll that said, this is very well done.\r\n\r\nRandy"
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: "Hi Randy,\r\nThanks for your sharp comments.  I've updated the pdf in partial
      agreement with them. \r\n\r\ns and z have been altered. the top terminal on
      s was a late-night accident, but the principle of uncharacteristically sharp
      terminals on s is I think defensible - though I've now regularised them. You
      were right about z.  I'm sticking with long descenders: it's a slippery slope
      down to ITC Garamond once you start shortening descenders. t I have grudgingly
      unwobbled a little. \r\n\r\nThe serifs are now a bit more regular.  I think
      they were more continuous in their variety than perhaps you noticed - all head-serifs,
      for example, were rounded, though some more than others - but, as you say, they
      now make a better impression at display sizes. Bow-legs are staying.  Punctuation
      and dots on i/j I'm still not decided on.  Any ideas as to how it's best done?
      \ \r\n\r\nGeorge"
    created: '2005-09-24 13:52:40'
  created: '2005-09-24 12:37:08'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "I like what you've done. I still wonder on the little flatop on the head
    serifs. It seems like a sub visible design element until the type gets to a size
    where this*feature* becomes odd. It just seems out of character. I don't see it
    being a result of ductus or of function or of style.\r\n\r\nDecenders: You've
    set with generous leading, because you must to prevent clashing. If this truely
    is for extended reading, consider heading down the slippery slope about 15%. It
    will still be elegant I promise.\r\n\r\nr: Did you modify this since last time?
    Hard to tell since I deleted the pdf I downloaded before. Anyhow, I like how you've
    dropped the connection down (compared to an n). And I like how you've tried to
    introduce more white space by raking back the head serif. I think you've overdone
    it a tad though. Consider bringing it back touch.\r\n\r\nPunctuation: Show some
    ductus, ie more diamond, less circle. It should reflect the angle of the *pen*
    used to create the leg of the n. It seems like slightly rounding the corners (or
    bowing the sides) will fit nicely with your serif treatments. You might start
    with the comma. Instead of a dot with a hook, try an arc as created by your *pen*
    And keep it nice and long. One critique I've received and seen repeatedly at critiques
    from Matthew Carter and Akira Kobayashi is \"make the comma longer for text.\"\r\n\r\nLooking
    forward to caps and italic. This is a very elegant face. Well done so far.\r\n\r\nR"
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: "Thanks again Randy; as you can see I have followed your advice, with good
      results.  I've learnt a lot over the last few days, and for the first time I
      feel I know what I'm doing.  It's now very satisfying work.\r\nGeorge"
    created: '2005-09-26 00:54:25'
  created: '2005-09-25 22:29:25'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "No doubt. It's looking good. Further thougts:\r\n\r\ny: Still don't like
    the tail. I think the tail is maybe a little too thick too close to the crotch.
    More of a flair might help, or some kind of foot, or terminal like your j.\r\n\r\npunctuation:
    I like the ductus! I wonder why the dot on the i and j don't also reflect this
    change?  The following is nit picky stuff: I like the diamond period (though it
    seems a little squished vertically -- like it wasnt' drawn with a pen at 45degrees
    in one stroke, upperleft to lower right. The comma is too angular imho. Try a
    more vertical hook (don't worry about keeping diamond shape at the top). This
    will have two benefits. Better spacing with letters like g. Also stylistically
    it works with your bowed nhm. Not hard angles in this whole font!\r\n\r\nIt looks
    like you know what you're doing!\r\n\r\nR\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-26 15:52:39'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hi Randy, good of you to check again. I've done pretty much as you suggested,
    though you might prefer more drastic work on y, and the comma might be less hooked.
    \ \r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-09-26 16:41:35'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "1. I found the old pdf in my cache and prefer the old r (to your re-revised
    r) -- do like the long foot.\r\n2. Perhaps some more heft in the the Terminal
    of the f\r\n3. j: the bend is a little thick. Maybe take some off the outside
    (see the f)\r\n\r\nCaps!\r\n\r\nR"
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: "Thanks Randy, I'll get going on the caps soon.\r\nG"
    created: '2005-10-08 12:24:03'
  created: '2005-09-27 14:31:36'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: "hi.\r\n\r\nYou may find this odd, but I believe this typeface looks a blend
    between the Aldine, as you refer, and a Neoclassical type, should I say, a baskerville
    in some details? It does remind me of Bembo, but with a touch of Baskerville.\r\nIt's
    well conceived overall, but I would like to see the uppercase and ligatures (are
    you developing them?). And I also believe an Italic would be interesting, but
    you must have thought of that ;).\r\n\r\nCurious, but you don't notice how long
    the serifs are. Only when you zoom in, which makes it a good baseline.\r\nAs for
    particular shapes, I would need some more attention.\r\n\r\nKeep up the good work."
  created: '2005-10-12 14:09:31'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hi Seml,\r\nThe bias of curves in Mamillius is blander and less mannered
    than in Bembo - perhaps that is what reminds you of Baskerville.  Uppercase and
    ligs are being made, yup, and either a Joanna-style italic or a digitisation of
    Griffo's superb italic for Soncino (<a href='http://www.library.upenn.edu/exhibits/rbm/petrarch/petrarch_23-02.html'>link</a>).
    \ \r\n\r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-10-12 16:12:10'
- author:
    name: jafo
  body: 'Hi. Another voice of approval for the design and warmth here. It feels organic,
    like twigs growing unhurredly in the summer sun. I like how you''ve reinterpreted
    the classic Aldine by harmonizing it with notes from the endearingly wobbly Goudy;
    I particularly like its subtle, angular Jenson (Centaur, really) influence. Overall,
    it''s a rather successful design, modulo a few letter sequences: the round, slightly
    bowed h/m/n combined with the angular e are stylistically jarring, for example
    -- Bembo vs. Centaur. But the overall effect is excellent, and I''d really like
    to see the UC and italic.'
  created: '2005-10-16 15:08:11'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Thanks Jafo; I've just cleaned up some errors.  Very perceptive of you to
    notice Rogers rather than Jenson, and there's lots of Goudy here, in the s and
    a especially - I admire his work greatly. \r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-10-16 19:42:45'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'Postscript: there''s not much Goudy left in a or s, and the curves are less
    blandly neoclassical, but I think the textblock has a clarity now that it generally
    hasn''t had during the very long development of this lowercase.'
  created: '2005-11-11 17:16:31'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Dunno if I'm repeating anyone else's comments, so many apologies if I am.\r\nThe
    descender of the \"y\" gets pretty heavy. Maybe the right side of it could be
    taken in a little bit? \r\nThe bottom of the \"g\" looks a little flat; maybe
    tweak the curves leading to the point to give it a bit more curve.\r\nThe \"j\",
    \"b\", and \"l\" look a little heavy in context. Don't be afraid to make some
    of your verticals lighter than others; there are some \"tricks of the light\"
    which should be compensated for, even at the rsk of consistency of construction.
    (I have discovered this on even very constructed sans serif fonts.)\r\nThe \"v\",
    \"w\", and \"x\" look a little light in context.\r\nThe top of the \"a\" seems
    to be overreaching, but it works very well. I like it a lot. \r\nThe cap \"I\"
    looks light in context. Caps benefit from some additional thickness.\r\nKeep rocking."
  created: '2005-11-11 18:45:46'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "As a preface let me say that I too am impressed. I am naive about text faces
    still, and will be for some years yet I suspect. So take my crit/questions with
    some ( or even a lot of ) salt!\r\n\r\nSo far all the comments I have read have
    dealt with letterforms rather than interletter spacing. Is it the case that eveybody
    is happy with that aspect of the font or is that being saved for later? When I
    look at the word 'child' the spacing does seem to be an issue. The l seems to
    be clinging to the i to escape the d. The w seems a bit over strong. It takes
    over. The c seems to be creeping to the lower left. The spacing of 'ya' in 'yard'
    seems to big. Overall it has the effect for me of reminding me of metal type that
    was set without kerning. The i in metal Bembo seems to creep to the a on it's
    right and away from an n on it's left. I wonder if philisophically you may be
    looking to relate closely to that history & approach. \r\n\r\nSeperately, the
    tail of the 'y' seems to draw a little too much attention because of the weight.
    The 'a' does too but for the opposite reason - it's terminal is so light.\r\n\r\nThe
    irregularity of the face does make it lively and pleasant ( other folks said organic,
    wobbly, pleasant warmth etc ). \r\n\r\nI also think that the ascenders & descenders
    could be less tall & deep with no ill effect.\r\n\r\nIt would be nice if you posted
    the old PDFs so I could see the progress as you went along.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-11 22:41:04'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Chester and Eben, thanks for your comments, I've acted on them but I think
    this might still need more thought. See what you think now - it finally looks
    OK at 15 point, though its colouring is rigidly 11-12 point. \r\n\r\nKerning is
    not yet done - and yes, I do love metal Bembo's slightly odd but very intelligent
    spacing. \r\n\r\nI haven't kept old PDFs, or indeed dated backups. This has resulted
    in my having to go with whatever tweaks I've made, typically with horrendous results,
    but it does mean that I've been able to learn a lot about the effects of small
    changes on the textblock.\r\n\r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-11-12 02:43:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> I haven\u2019t kept old PDFs, or indeed dated backups.\r\n\r\nHow extraodinarily
    naughty! You could change your habits now of course...\r\n\r\nAs before take all
    of this with the understanding that there are lots of folks here who know far
    more than I but with that said:\r\n\r\nI was thinking about a face like this and
    it's connection to metal type and thinking that it would be a good idea now to
    decide if you are going to make different designs for different sizes, something
    I think would add to the value of the project, and if so pick a size to work into
    first. Then you can make it behave for that size and not try to straddle to many
    purposes at once. \r\n\r\nI also think that it's time for you to start thinking
    about interletter spacing and shapes at once. Even though you have been doing
    a great job in general there is just as much to accomplish in the spaces where
    letters are not as in where they are. And I don't just mean the bowls & counters.
    And I don't just mean kerning, I mean that you should design the spaces that occur
    in between the letters. It's a different way of looking at the whole thing. Some
    folks would say that letter shapes should be done with those spaces in mind. I
    would be in that crowd.\r\n\r\nThe used to be a nice teaching flash file on Typophile
    from Jonathan Hoefler that dealt with this. But the link to it is broken.\r\n\r\nIf
    you want I'll point you at threads that deal with this idea & other resources.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    Have you been here? \r\n\r\nhttp://briem.ismennt.is/index.htm \r\n\r\nIt's pretty
    cool."
  created: '2005-11-12 04:50:18'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Eben, it's OK, this is Mamillius 12 point, and will never appear at larger
    sizes if I have anything to do with it. I have indeed been thinking about intraverbal
    spacing a lot - that's why the head-serifs are how they are - what irks you about
    the current setup? l was loosely spaced to the right, but that's been changed.\r\n\r\nAll
    links are very welcome. I'm not sure I trust Hoefler, who is, let's face it, better
    at display than text faces (Requiem Text is rather flimsy, and the letters in
    words are polite to one another rather than having fun with one another). I do
    know about http://briem.ismennt.is, but it's pretty basic and can (& did for me)
    give the wrong idea about eg relative stem weights - it's no good deciding how
    thick a thin is before drawing all the letters.\r\n\r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-11-12 14:33:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> will never appear at larger sizes if I have anything to do with it.\r\n\r\nOnly
    if you'll be the only person to have anything to do with it...\r\nAnd maybe not
    even then, since people change their minds. What I'm saying is, never say \"never\"!
    :-)  That said, it is indeed sometimes useful to focus a design on a small size
    range.\r\n\r\n> the letters in words are polite to one another rather than having
    fun with one another\r\n\r\nGood point.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s no good deciding how
    thick a thin is before drawing all the letters.\r\n\r\n?\r\nBut how can you make
    any letters without deciding that?\r\nThe trick is to see any decision as provisional.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: "Hi Hrant, I doubt whether this would ever be used by anyone but me and
      a few friends, I'm afraid. I hope to do the MA in type design at Reading next
      year, and to immerse myself in Griffo sufficiently deeply to produce a really
      good Aldine type then, but for now this is both a chance to see how far I can
      go without training and a type for my own first book on Shakespeare. \r\n\r\nUntil
      yesterday, this design looked terribly dull when (as it were) blown up beyond
      13 point. Checking how a face looks a little larger than its intended size can
      show clearly some kinds of structural failure only vaguely and nigglingly apparent
      at true size.\r\n\r\nAnd what I should have said was \"in particular, the weight
      of thins is not a design decision which should be imposed on letterforms in
      advance of their being drawn, except in the roughest terms\". Which is rather
      different to, though much less silly than, what I in fact wrote.\r\n\r\nGeorge"
    created: '2005-11-12 17:18:50'
  created: '2005-11-12 15:46:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> and a few friends\r\n\r\nWell, there you go - out of your control!  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    Checking how a face looks a little larger than its intended\r\n> size can show
    clearly some kinds of structural failure\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, I personally
    feel that a \"real\" text\r\nface has to have a certain ugliness when viewed large.\r\n\r\n>
    the weight of thins is not a design decision\r\n> which should be imposed on letterforms
    in advance\r\n\r\nIf you mean what I think by \"imposed\", I would agree. But
    the more experience one has, the closer one can come to establishing the desired
    parameters from the get-go; sometimes close enough not to need revision. It is
    reputed for example that towards the end of his career E Prince used to cut his
    finished punches with zero corrections, and IIRC without even doing smoke proofs!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-12 17:47:33'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "It's reassuring to hear that a real text face has to be ugly when enlarged.
    Do you have an opinion on whether Mamillius' structure is exaggeratedly or sufficiently
    \"text\"?\r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-11-12 18:10:46'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "About the size issue. If you have picked a size you are designing into then
    thats great. My sense was that you were thinking about evaluating the type at
    several sizes and so I started to think that you were attempting to straddle 9,
    12 & 15 or something which could only lead to misery. I see now that is not your
    intent. Chris Lozos recently said that rather than working on multiple weights
    (extra thin, thin, bold, extra bold or whatever) of a font it might be better
    to start by making the same font but cut for several intended use sizes. I think
    he is right about that. Even if you are designing for just one specific size.\r\n\r\nAbout
    relative stem weights. No source is completely oracular. Casting about for a source
    that dealt with the idea of interletter spacing that site was the best I could
    find quickly.\r\n\r\nCertainly there is a problem of overpoliteness in lots of
    digital faces. Adobe faces seem to exemplify that. And certainly you are well
    on your way to avoiding that problem. \r\n\r\nI am not inked by your type by the
    way. It's pleasing to me. It just lacks a certain virtue I would love to see it
    have. It's a virtue that is pretty rare and one that I am still developing my
    eye for myself.\r\n\r\nBecause I am after a little more harmony in interletter
    spacing, some of what I am after could be construed as suing for that same well
    mannered but overly polite quality. But I don't think you have to sacrifice color
    & warmth ( aesthetic virtues) or readability ( a use virtue) to achive better
    harmony.\r\n\r\nAbout this spacing issue you said:  that\u2019s why the head-serifs
    are how they are.\r\n\r\nIt isn't the serifs that concern me but the actual amount
    & shape of the white space between glyphs. Not the black but the white. Look at
    the word 'was' The w is drifting away. You could say but the serif... but that
    isn't the issue. The issue is the design of the w ( and a), and the design of
    their relationship - the design of the interletter space. Theoretically the design
    of a given a or w could be perfect. As long as the other letters harmonize with
    it. But it is easier I think to design the harmony in the first place. \r\n\r\nI
    don't want to say make your 'a' like this or 'w' like that because that just deals
    with one or two specific places where something is happening. If I convince you
    at all ( which i might not ) I hope it will be to look at the type and judge it
    in an additional way.\r\n\r\nHrant has influened my thinking about this a great
    deal when he wrote about Legato. (Scroll way down)\r\nhttp://typographi.com/000969.php\r\n\r\nHe
    & others have also talked about this idea and related ideas using terms like 'bouma'
    and 'notan'. You could seach for these terms on typophile & see what you think.\r\n\r\nHere
    is what the designer said about Legato\r\nhttp://www.evertbloemsma.nl/legato/about_legato/about_legato.asp\r\n\r\n>On
    the other hand, I personally feel that a \u201Creal\u201D text face has to have
    a certain ugliness when viewed large.\r\n\r\nI agree. Features that are going
    to be preceived well at all at 12 point will become grotesque when large. And
    a display version will look weak-willed at a small size."
  created: '2005-11-12 19:11:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It\u2019s reassuring to ...\r\n\r\nWoah, don't be <cite>too</cite> reassured!
    :-)  Many accomplished type designers do not agree with that idea. These tend
    to be the same people who don't place a qualitative distinction between display
    and text fonts, believing that it's just a matter of changing stroke contrast,
    etc. to get one to be the other. But to me these are the designers who produce
    non-optimal (if still entirely serviceable) text faces.\r\n\r\n> Do you have an
    opinion on whether Mamillius\u2019 structure\r\n> is exaggeratedly or sufficiently
    \u201Ctext\u201D?\r\n\r\nNo, I'm not good enough for that yet. Although the statement
    I made I have full faith in, I'm still not at a point where I can see exactly
    what it is and make it happen myself; which is why Patria is still too close to
    the Display end of things - although some of the people described above still
    complain that it doesn't have enough formal harmony. What they don't grasp is
    that that's a feature, not a bug.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-12 19:16:02'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Eben and Hrant, this is interesting. I agree that Mamillius is missing something,
    no doubt several somethings, and I think one is white \"rythm\". But what genuinely
    accurate phrase should replace \"rythm\" there? An adequate name for it would
    also be a description of it. Smeijers' 'Counterpunch' has the beginnings of a
    description of white harmony through the reuse of counterpunches. But presumably
    there's a whole world of different kinds of white interractions, just as there
    is of black, and a big part of the problem for the novice is that the shapes involved
    are so different (that most are composite is a smaller and more obvious difficulty).\r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-11-13 00:38:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> what genuinely accurate phrase should replace \u201Crythm\u201D there?\r\n\r\nI
    don't use \"rhythm\", because I think it alludes to a motion that\r\nis not there.
    I prefer \"pattern\". And to me the ideal objective is\r\nto achieve a certain
    pattern in the notan (unity and relationship\r\nof Black and White), the desired
    pattern depending on the purpose\r\nof the design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-13 00:51:31'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "OK, I've started working on the notan, and already there's a lovely sprinkling
    of fairy-dust on the textblock. \r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-11-13 02:13:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "George, I am glad it's helping!\r\n\r\n :-)\r\n\r\nHrant, explain to me why
    the the motion is not there. \r\n\r\nPatten in motion is rhythm - no? \r\n\r\nThe
    eye moves past the pattern we already agree is there. So..."
  created: '2005-11-13 23:42:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Patten in motion is rhythm - no?\r\n\r\nExactly, but where the motion is
    continuous. Saccades preclude that; mechanically, reading is an aggregation of
    discrete fixation-events. Now, some people will tell you that rhythm does not
    depend on motion; but to me, whatever their motivation*, they're causing trouble
    by using the term.\r\n\r\n* Quite often a stubborn/romantic apologism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-14 03:19:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hmmm I am not convinced about this yet. Rhythm which is regular in nature
    as in 'musical' would probably need to be constant or regular which is what I
    think you mean when you say 'continuous'. Continuous might just mean continuing
    with varied pace. But rhythm can also be irregular. Obviously this is bad in a
    heartbeat, and probably alot of music but other natural events have more complicated
    structures - like reading. But that irregularity & complexity don't preclude rhythm
    in my mind. \r\n\r\n> Now, some people will tell you that rhythm does not depend
    on motion. \r\n\r\nThat sounds pretty specious to me! \r\n\r\nIf somebody made
    a claim for visual rythym and wanted to allow for a wide variety of motions or
    complex motions a opposed to a single motion I would be willing to think about
    that.\r\n\r\n> reading is an aggregation of discrete fixation-events\r\n\r\nLight
    is considered both a particle & a wave. Reading is not light (obviously) but I
    am not sure that fixation events which occur between saccades preclude rhythm.
    Also, saccades are movement. Even if there is no motion/rhythm during a fixation
    event, something I am not sure is true yet*, there is the saccade itself.\r\n\r\nWhat
    makes me skeptical of the idea of rhythm isn't the objections you have brought
    up so far. It's the issue of 'frame'. In musical terms the 'frame' is very narrow.
    A moment of conciousness. In reading I wonder if the area of focus isn't too broad
    for the term to apply well.\r\n\r\nSo am am ultimately ambivalent about the term.
    \r\n\r\n> Quite often a stubborn/romantic apologism\r\n\r\nRomance is stubborn.
    It makes me laugh happily when you write stuff like this. ;-)\r\n\r\nLook, we
    are hijacking George's thread. \r\n\r\nGeorge, I think your term 'interractions'
    is decent and covers the needed idea. But Hrant's term 'Notan' seems the richest
    and most satisfying to me for many many reasons not least of which because it
    is a term which is all about looking, noticing, and making your own judgement
    - a responsibility that can't ever be shirked in favor of typographic dogma of
    any stripe.\r\n\r\n*Hrant, If I am going to keep argueing with you about this
    kind of stuff I had better start reading some primary scientific literature!\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: Hrant and Eben, I am enlightened, see what you think of this now.
    created: '2005-11-15 01:32:28'
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: ' Sorry about the following empties. Can they be deleted?'
    created: '2005-11-15 01:32:31'
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: ' '
    created: '2005-11-15 01:32:37'
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: ' '
    created: '2005-11-15 01:32:39'
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: ' '
    created: '2005-11-15 01:32:53'
  created: '2005-11-14 07:54:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The font doesn't seem to be fundamentally altered, but how could it be this
    quickly? That said I think it's better. \r\n\r\nI must say that it's a good thing
    I have kept my old print outs or I could not even say that much. Your habit of
    overwriting the old PDF makes it impossible for other folks to follow along &
    benefit for your process afterwards. Which is of course VERY naughty as I said
    before!\r\n\r\nWhat I notice is that the words seem to gel better now. They seem
    less restless. The eccentric qulatity of the c and e ( the wayward lower left)
    is not as noticable now.\r\n\r\nThe 'w' still seems like less of a team player
    than I would ideally like. It seems too wide, too tall, and to plunge below the
    base line too far.\r\n\r\nThe 'a' is in contrast, a bit to much of a shrinking
    violet. I keep wondering if the top needs to take a bit of the pluck of your 'r'
    or if the bowl might be bigger, or maybe both.\r\n\r\nWhat a is your a modeled
    after?\r\n\r\nWhat do you think? What have you noticed?"
  created: '2005-11-16 19:22:21'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hi Eben, yup, I've been concentrating on the gelling of words, through the
    resizing of counters and also by rotating white space counter-clockwise relative
    to the axis of black. I've found that Griffo and, to an almost exagerrated extent,
    the draughtsman of Monotype Bembo observed the same dual-axis principle. It gives
    sparkle despite low contrast, which is now the most notable thing about this design,
    and it helps, as in FF Legato, to unite the word-image. \r\n\r\nThe unterminated
    'a' is found in Jenson's and Gill's types, and also in Lutetia.\r\n\r\nSorry about
    not posting old PDFs, I've put up one previous version along with the current
    update. \r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-11-16 20:54:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "How interesting! I'll have to go & look at those examples to get some better
    context.\r\n\r\nI am looking foreward to seeing the next PDF.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-16 21:55:28'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hi Eben, more thorough changes have been made, and a new PDF is up.\r\nG"
  created: '2005-11-29 00:17:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have printed out the two samples. It will be a day or so before I can get
    into it. I just saw some type in a fancy edition of Moby Dick that had more than
    a passing resembalance to your font. Similar shapes & spacing. It was pretty weird.
    I'll look into what it was & let you know. I should have jotted it down at the
    time but ... \r\n\r\nAlso I need to look at goudy centaur & bembo again too so
    I have a better idea of where you are coming from. These are the big three sources
    you are referencing - no?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: "Actually I'd leave it for a while - I'm still not very happy with this.\r\nG"
    created: '2005-11-29 21:58:05'
  created: '2005-11-29 16:50:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hmmm- okay. In the meantime though, it is goudy centaur & bembo I should
    look at by way of comparison. Yes?\r\n\r\nAlso, what specifically are you not
    happy about?"
  created: '2005-11-29 22:03:45'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Sorry to fiddle around Eben; I was overwhelmed with disgust at Mamillius'
    bland ugliness, but I think I was just bored with these now rather overfamiliar
    letterforms - a fresh eye would be very welcome. The copy you will have printed
    out is thus the correct one. Thanks very much for taking the trouble to look at
    it,\r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-11-29 23:16:04'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "- And the relevant fonts are Bembo Book and Poliphilus.\r\nG"
  created: '2005-11-29 23:17:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I found this Essay:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typeculture.com/academic_resource/articles_essays/pdfs/tc_article_23.pdf\r\n\r\nHave
    you read it? If so, what did you think?"
  created: '2005-12-01 21:13:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I finally found the face I had been looking at in that Moby Dick. It was
    Goudy Modern.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/goudy-modern-mt/\r\n\r\nNow
    I will print a PDF of it & get to work."
  created: '2005-12-02 03:07:10'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "I had read the essay, but it doesn't exactly pull the scales from one's eyes:
    the merest child could have produced its structuralism of revival and the varying
    opinions of it, and a hypereducated child with a little knowledge of the development
    of early 20thC book types could have rattled through a Griffo case study. \r\n\r\nWhat
    an interesting comparison you make with Goudy Modern. It's true, but it shouldn't
    be; and attempts to narrow and lighten Mamillius have just shown it to be totally
    hollow, a useful failure.\r\n\r\nGeorge"
  created: '2005-12-02 13:40:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "When you say narrow & lighten you mean compared to the weight it had before
    - right? I just want to be sure I follow you. Why did you want to narrow or lighten
    the font in general? Was it to make it for a larger pt. size?\r\n\r\nWhat struck
    me about the Goudy modern is that while it felt 'period' from an aesthetic point
    of view & somehow there fore superficially 'worked' in the context of reading
    Moby Dick, ultimately the 'w' overpowered the letters around it, was distracting
    & compromised the word shapes. And there are dozens of similar problems. \r\n\r\nAt
    some point, to be fair I aught to point at some fonts that I think lack these
    problems or which I feel exhibit virtues I would suggest for your font.\r\n\r\nI
    think I can hear that you are dispirited. I am sorry about that. \r\n\r\nI agree
    with your assesment of the essay, but not being a student of Aldine faces in particular
    I wondered if it covered any ground basic to your project. It sounds like it did
    albeit in a manner that isn't useful to you now.\r\n\r\nGiven your face's similarity
    to Goudy Modern, The obvious question seems to me to be - how do you feel about
    these period letter designs & spacings? Are you primarily interested in maintaining
    the flavor that can be achieved by what is essentially a kind of revival? Or do
    you care about the integrity of word shapes I am concerned with? I think that
    to make the changes I have been advocating would mean loosing some fraction of
    the flavor you have had. My point of view is that it would be great to make a
    face that maintained alot of the flavor you have now but which used contemporary
    insight to resolve word shapes better and enhance reading. \r\n\r\nI am still
    looking at your stuff, but given your posts I thought I aught to reiterate the
    purpose I had in mind to see if it matched yours."
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: "Hi Eben,\r\nI'm afraid I don't think there's any point going on with Mamillius,
      at least for a while. Were I to start again, I would do it differently, and
      much more as you would wish (also with a more rigorous set of central formal
      ideas), but I haven't time.\r\n\r\nGoudy Modern isn't really a revival - its
      \"flavour\", including odd horizontal proportions and spacing, is Goudy's imposition
      of his ideals on a histoorical style which was never so irregular. I agree that
      Goudy Modern, as is the case with even California Old Style at large sizes,
      is tiresome to read long-distance. I don't approve of that kind of flavour.\r\n\r\nIn
      addition, I doubt there are many new insights into readability - I think, for
      instance, that Griffo's lowercase letterforms for the Hynerotomachia are more,
      not less, readable than those of (excellent) metal Bembo; the seeming narrowness
      of some letters ensures more even white within the word-image, or would if the
      press-work were better. 13/14 letterpress Poliphilus, though the design shows
      crudities not present in Griffo's original, is the most enjoyable reading I
      know.\r\n\r\nG"
    created: '2005-12-09 14:05:36'
  created: '2005-12-02 16:49:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I can't be sure if either starting Mamillius or stopping it was a great idea,
    but it certainly takes balls to do the latter, when you've spent so much effort
    on it. Respect.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-09 18:45:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I totally understand deciding to put a project down - especially if you have
    decided that the ideas that originally informed the project are no longer ones
    you can get behind. Not fully grasping your current ideas & insights I can't say
    I approve or disapprove ( not that I have a say ) but Like Hrant I respect your
    choice. It can't have been easy. I aught to confess that I have discovered that
    some of the faults I was finding with your font had to with my printer not with
    your font! But in general it's true that I find the GoudyModern-like direction
    gets tiresome over longer reading. I would have been keen to peek over your shoulder
    if your had decided to reform your face in one way or another. The material is
    new enough to me to be very interesting. Since I will not have that oppotunity
    ; would you be willing to show me some of the examples ( or point to them on the
    net or in books) you are referring to? I would also appreciate any additional
    insights you have or erecomendations on source material.\r\n\r\nLooking around
    for Hynerotomachia Pholiphili references I found these:\r\n\r\nhttp://special.lib.gla.ac.uk/exhibns/month/feb2004.html\r\nhttp://mitpress.mit.edu/e-books/HP/index.htm\r\nhttp://mitpress.mit.edu/e-books/HP/hyptext1.htm\r\nhttp://library.byu.edu/~aldine/\r\nhttp://wally.rit.edu/cary/cc_db/15th_century/14c.jpeg\r\n\r\nThis
    is fascinating. It's amazing how cohesive and pleasant the text looks in the images
    - but how seemingly imprecise & irregular the spacing & shapes seem when viewed
    closely.\r\n\r\nHrant, do you get this effect too? How do you explain it?\r\n\r\nChris
    Lozos, see the g in that last example? Line 7 middle of the page. It's the oly
    one like it and it was probably broken metal - but it made me think of you and
    your g's!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-09 21:26:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Also, just for anybody like me who is looking put some puzzle pices together,
    there is a related thread here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/14503"
  created: '2005-12-09 23:16:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, I'm sad to say that I haven't been following this closely enough.\r\nI've
    read most everything in the thread, but haven't taken a close look\r\nat the font
    itself for a while now. Sorry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-10 18:15:15'
date: '2005-09-21 02:24:04'
title: Mamillius, an Aldine book type

---
