---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "I'm looking for everything/anything on the\r\nEmerson face (originally made
  in the 1930s).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Hrant:\r\nYou've read Blumenthal's <em> Typographic Years</em>, right?\r\n\r\nFWIW,
    there's a small showing in <em>An Atlas of Typeforms</em> (Sutton and Bartram).\r\n\r\nI
    suppose you want something a bit more definitive."
  created: '2005-09-21 22:24:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You\u2019ve read Blumenthal\u2019s  Typographic Years, right?\r\n\r\n{Blush}\r\nBut
    UCLA has it, so I'll get it soon.\r\n\r\nI saw the Atlas thing, plus the Jaspert
    entry. There's also something in Consuegra's \"American Type Design and Designers\".
    Since Atlas says it's an \"original\" design, I don't know if I'll find what I'm
    looking for: Blumenthal's possible inspirations for that amazing \"a\" and the
    hybrid numerals (the earliest example I've found so far - ATF Garamond's are way
    too mild to count for me).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-22 17:29:21'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: Actually, there's not all that much about the design itself in <em>Typographic
    Years</em>, but there are a few examples of it in use.
  created: '2005-09-22 21:49:41'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: There's also a chapter on Spiral / Emerson in [[American Proprietary Typefaces]].
    Recommended.
  created: '2005-09-23 08:00:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Does it say anything about what might have inspired Blumenthal?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-23 08:09:39'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nBeatrice Warde (with additions by John Dreyfus in 1984) did
    an analysis of the various Monotype text typefaces in, I think, the Monotype Recorder
    (1960s?). I have a copy of Monotype Composition Faces that was put out by Harold
    Berliner's Typefoundry that, as far as I can understand it, replicates the Warde
    work. \r\n\r\nIt gives a bit of information about the origins, history, and use
    of the various faces, showing text settings using a page from The Crystal Goblet
    as a template. Each page has a sidebar of microtypographic showings (likely the
    Dreyfus contribution). \r\n\r\nEmerson is included. To quote, \"one of a number
    of 20th-century faces which have been designed especially to meet the demands
    of modern printing processes and paper surfaces.\" This was a concern promoted
    by Warde in her later writings. There were a number of her studies, published
    in fugitive sources, that have never been compiled.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-09-23 18:55:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks Gerald.\r\nDo any of those sources provide particularly good/complete
    print samples?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-23 18:59:07'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nI've got a specimen of it that shows the full character set
    in 10 pt plus text settings in 8, 10, 11, 12, 14, 18, and display setting in 24.
    According to the sheet the Monotype version is number 320, issued in 1935. It
    was originally cut by Bauer in 1930 as Spiral. There was an article on Emerson
    in Signature by Reynolds Stone.\r\n\r\nI might have others but this was readily
    at hand.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-09-24 03:30:04'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: 'Emerson is used to set one of the articles in <em> Books and Printing: A
    Treasury for Typophiles.</em>'
  created: '2005-09-24 04:07:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gerald, more great info - thanks.\r\nDo you have a scanner? And time? :-)
    Or if it's not between semesters right now could I come by your class, borrow
    it, and bring it back? Basically I'm wondering if there are other glyphs beside
    the \"a\" that are both so fine and so unique. And the other thing is the derivation
    of the numerals - I wonder if that Signature article says anything about that,
    or any possible derivation of the font in general; I've been trying to track down
    the first case of hybrid numerals for a while now...\r\n\r\nJohn, another thing
    to pick up from UCLA then - thanks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-24 06:38:02'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nNo problem if you want to borrow what I have. Let me know if
    you will be coming by on a Tuesday night and I will bring them along.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-09-25 01:09:03'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nThe reprinted quote from Stone\r\n\r\n\"The intention seems
    to have been to make the type suitable for photogravure reproduction. This involved
    a thickening of thin strokes and a blunting of the serifs and all terminals. The
    designer further seems to have aimed at producing a reasonably light face, fairly
    condensed, and at the same time one which avoided the rigidity of a modern face
    and preserved some of the virtues of the classic renaissance types.\"\r\n\r\nAny
    typos are my own!!!\r\n\r\nThe figures are as you say.\r\n\r\nThere is a foundry
    in Switzerland, which bought up the Berliner stuff, so they do have the mats.\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-09-25 04:42:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gerald, continued thanks.\r\nI'll probably come in this Tuesday.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-25 05:05:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So thanks to Gerald I got a good specimen of Monotype Emerson.\r\nHere's
    the charset at 10 point:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Emerson.gif\r\n\r\nNothing
    as exhilarating as the \"a\", but the \"AE\" has a feature I think is as nice
    as it is rare: the middle stem <cite>slightly</cite> tilted leftward. And the
    \"U\", although not very uncommon, is rare enough to single out for praise. Negatives:
    a descending \"J\" but a non-descending -if decent- \"Q\"; although in the Italic
    the \"Q\" is exactly the sort I like. Another thing about the Italic is that Monotype's
    typical uniwidth (generally called \"duplexed\") approach has NOT been applied
    - which however makes me wonder why it still looks a bit brutish. The smallcaps
    are too small to me (although the main caps are too big).\r\n\r\nThe numerals
    (as I mentioned above, but it's worth mentioning again) are hybrid (and I just
    noticed, monowidth too) which is pleasantly surprising to see as far back as the
    1930s. I wonder if Blumenthal was in fact the first...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-30 02:34:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Apparently I can't even keep track of my own stuff: I had previously found
    an older example of hybrid numerals, done towards the end of the 19th century
    by Phelps, Dalton & Company (AKA Dickinson) and even discussed the find here on
    Typophile. Oh well.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-01 01:13:48'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nEver since you put out a call for information about the Spiral/Emerson
    type of Joseph Blumenthal I've been racking my brain to try and recall where I
    have an article by JB on the entire process of making both the types.\r\n\r\nEach
    time I come across a pile of paper, books, etc. I think I've found it. No luck.\r\n\r\nI
    recall that the account was very personal, covering the early days of his sketching
    the design, and mentioning that since he was newly married, he had no money to
    fund the project.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that the article was in a copy of The
    Colophon, but I can't be certain. Can't swear that I will ever find it, but I'm
    on the lookout for it.\r\n\r\nHave you looked into the early editions of this
    publication?\r\n\r\nJim "
  created: '2005-10-05 23:04:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry for the rack inducement.  :-)\r\n\r\nThat article sounds tantalizing.
    Maybe its contents ended up in his \"Typographic Years\"? I'll be getting my hands
    on that soon. Colophon: if you're firm on that lead I can scour the collection
    that UCLA has.\r\n\r\nAnd certainly, if one must get married, one\r\nshould spend
    the big money [shortly] beforehand.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-05 23:09:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So I got my hands on \"Typographic Years\". First: it's really\r\nquite well
    set, in Monotype Baskerville - very sharp, sans any\r\nletterpress fetish. Anyway.
    There's a chapter on Emerson, and\r\nit's pretty interesting, but: not much on
    its origins, although\r\nhe does say he traced over enlargements of Jenson, Baskerville\r\nand
    Bodoni, if only to familiarize himself more with classics;\r\nand nothing on the
    hybrid numerals. But the book does reveal\r\nthat the punches, matrices, proofs
    etc. of the original version\r\nof the design (Spiral) are at RIT's Carey... It
    also mentions\r\nthat Victor Hammer thought it was the best Roman in town.\r\nOh,
    and that he made virtually no money from it. But I think\r\nit's a really nice
    design, worth reviving much more than\r\nGaramond yet again (although with a new
    Italic).\r\n\r\nBTW, John, I got the Bennett book you mentioned as well.\r\nIsn't
    the chapter set in Emerson so utterly convincing?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-04 02:54:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I am also getting interested in this face but more in the version called Spiral
    that existed before Monotype adapted it. Does anybody have a suggestion?
  created: '2008-02-02 10:22:56'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: No suggestions, but very handsome and distinctive -- well worth the effort
    of interpreting for digital type, I'd think.
  created: '2008-02-02 14:24:39'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Eben --\r\n\r\nI'm pretty sure that Blumenthal's papers went to the Dartmouth
    College Library. I don't know if the collection has been indexed. \r\n\r\nAs mentioned
    in Hrant's last post, the APHA article says that the original Spiral materials
    were given to the Cary Collection at RIT. Jerry Kelly would also be a good resource.\r\n\r\nI
    can try to drum up some contacts for you. Maybe you (we?) can get over there and
    hunt something down during TypeCon week in nearby Buffalo. ;-)\r\n\r\nI'll respond
    to your e-mail separately.\r\n\r\n-- K."
  created: '2008-02-02 15:05:23'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Does anyone know how to get in contact with Jerry Kelly? His Nonpareil website
    won't let me see the pdf and the contact e-mail is rejecting.
  created: '2010-01-23 11:45:58'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Ben --\r\n\r\nJerry\u2019s partner in Nonpareil handles the licensing. I\u2019ll
    see if I can dig up a different e-mail for her. And I\u2019ll contact you offline
    with the PDF as well.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-23 12:25:08'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Super, that's kind Kent, thank you.
  created: '2010-01-23 12:34:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I hadn't seen that Nonpareil stuff. What a horrible digitization\r\nof Emerson
    (or actually Spiral). Somebody get them to pull it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-23 16:53:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> Somebody get them to pull it.\r\n\r\nA Google search let me find the website
    and get their PDF specimen. It does seem like the x-height line isn't even, although
    I saw that with some examples of the \"real\" Emerson as well. Other than that
    flaw, which should be easily correctable if it is real, the digital version did
    not look terrible to me - and I'm glad one exists.\r\n\r\nLooking more closely,
    and using the \"test drive\" feature of their site, it seems that the problem
    is really with only one letter: the lowercase z. It is too low, and is tilted
    so that the right side is even lower. The \"real\" Emerson from Monotype appears
    to have a characteristic like that in the lowercase z as well, but not so pronounced."
  created: '2010-01-24 01:15:13'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "> Zoom in to the foot of the \"i\".\r\n\r\nI see that the two serifs on either
    side are not equal in length. However, that seems to be true for most of the other
    lowercase letters as well; it seems to have been intentionally done to give flow
    or directionality to the letters.\r\n\r\nThus, the serifs on the right-hand vertical
    of the \"h\" are similar to those of the \"i\", while those on the base of the
    \"f\" and \"r\" point in the other direction."
  created: '2010-01-24 02:00:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Zoom in to the foot of the \"i\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-24 02:18:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sorry, I meant the \"i\" in the display cut.\r\nBut in the text cut, check
    out the \"U\"...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-24 02:18:44'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I'm still not entirely certain what you may be wishing me to look for, as
    the samples of the real Emerson that I've seen weren't at a large enough scale
    for me to compare them with this.\r\n\r\nHowever, the curve at the bottom of the
    U in the text version does seem to change abruptly, I will admit.\r\n\r\nIn the
    case of i in the display version, the counter on the left-hand serif at the bottom
    does seem to have a problem - where the others are smooth curves, this one seems
    to depart from the vertical earlier, and change to a straight line leaning against
    the vertical - which then rejoins the normal serif after a bend with a smaller
    radius of curvature."
  created: '2010-01-24 04:49:51'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Yeah, I got in touch with them and they've fixed the pdf link now. They could
    do with some optimisation to get their website on Google's radar. I've been researching
    Emerson all week and they hadn't come up at all. But the whole site is Flash.\r\n\r\nThe
    lowercase /x/ and /y/ in the display cut have similarly unsmooth serif joins.
    I'm hoping to find out how the digitisation project was handled."
  created: '2010-01-24 16:44:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It looks like FontLab did it...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-24 16:55:19'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hrant, I got a new scan from my friend at Wells College, and overlaid it
    on the scan you had, noting a few differences, particularly the descender of italic
    g. (The darker scan was the one you sent me.) Some of the differences of course
    could just be ink spread but I think the Wells specimen has stronger serifs and
    terminals. I haven't yet got exact details of the source (and whether it could
    be the foundry version). \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Emerson_5936.gif]\r\nAlso
    I gather there's some 14pt metal Emerson knocking around there so I've asked for
    some macro photos.\r\nIf you'd like me to e-mail this new scan I'd be happy to.
    I'm pretty happy about the quality. :)"
  created: '2010-02-27 11:49:56'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "Stronger serifs and terminals could indicate fresher type. Monotype would
    typically be cast fresh for each setting, but long runs might get more worn toward
    the end. Handset foundry type would be more likely to exhibit affects of wear
    and tear, depending upon the printer\u2019s practices.\r\n\r\nI can\u2019t explain
    the smaller shorter g of the Wells specimen. I don\u2019t think Monotype was in
    the habit of making short/long-descender versions. That was more a Linotype practice,
    due to certain constraints."
  created: '2010-02-27 14:12:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Like Kent said, the softer serifs are probably just a wearing of the metal.
    BTW, Monotype fonts were sometimes cast as sorts for hand-setting, and being much
    softer than foundry would wear down much faster in such cases.\r\n\r\nThe only
    real difference is indeed the \"g\". Since the earlier Spiral didn't even have
    an Italic (correct?) the only explanation I can think of is that they set the
    \"g\" a point or two larger than the rest!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-02-27 15:49:33'
- author:
    name: Shrdlu
  body: "I was at Wells last summer and got to take a monotype class from Mike Bixler.
    But I also picked up a copy of Victor Hammer and the Wells College Press which
    has this passage at the end of the book:\r\n\r\nSpiral Type, 14 point Roman, approximately
    200 pounds. Donated to Victor Hammer by Joseph Blumenthal.*\r\n\r\n* This is most
    likely the only existing Spiral Foundry Type in existence as only 1000 pounds
    was cast. Blumenthal gave 200 pounds to Hammer and eventually melted down the
    remaining 800 pounds. That Wells has this much Spiral and the original Emerson
    type is a tribute to the devotion of Father Thomas J. Collar, a printer who live
    in Aurora, and friend of Victor Hammer. This type was pied in the many moves and
    nearly totally lost. Father Collar spend countless hours setting the pied type
    back on its feet and tying and wrapping it so that it could be easily relayed
    and used. Without his almost heroic effort, this type would certainly be lost
    forever.\r\n\r\nI suppose I should have used it in the specimen book I printed
    there. But presumably that's the foundry version then. I have a picture of the
    front of the California cases that say Spiral, but that's not so interesting."
  created: '2010-05-27 04:09:11'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Wow, that's really exciting! I'm going to get in touch with my friend; she
    mentioned Mike Bixler so I'm now really wondering what the source of her scan
    was!
  created: '2010-05-27 09:42:51'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I remember there was a thread about identifying a typeface in an encyclopedia
    by Golden Books in which the Emerson typeface was discussed extensively. However,
    while the search feature of this site seems to be working again, it did not turn
    up that thread.\r\n\r\nThankfully, Google stepped into the breach:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/66413"
  created: '2010-05-29 07:01:32'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: 'More: <a href="http://typocurious.com/the-spiral-emerson-types-an-interview-with-joseph-blumenthal/">Spiral
    & Emerson: An Interview with Joseph Blumenthal</a>.'
  created: '2010-12-31 12:48:51'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I've created a page on Wikipedia for Emerson. It's a bit concise, so feel
    free to edit or let me know any suggestions and I'll amend.\r\n<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Emerson_%28typeface%29\">Emerson
    (typeface)</a>"
  created: '2011-01-02 04:17:18'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Interesting Wikipedia article.\r\n\r\nThe first use of Emerson - or perhaps
    Spiral - was in publishing a private-press edition of Ralph Waldo Emerson's essay
    Nature, in 1935, but that had been published before (in 1908, and perhaps earlier).
    Somehow, I think, the wording should be made explicit on this point, to avoid
    leading people to think that the font was first used for the initial publication
    of that work.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of Wikipedia articles, there is a beautiful and
    detailed article entitled \"Linotype Machine\". But there was only a paragraph
    describing how Monotype machines work in one of the articles about the history
    of the Monotype corporation. I created an article, but it's far from complete,
    entitled \"Monotype system\", if this news might reach anyone interested in doing
    it properly!"
  created: '2011-01-02 06:10:34'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Thanks, I've amended that, hopefully it's clearer now?
  created: '2011-01-02 10:44:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That Typocurious interview is quite revealing - thanks for sharing!\r\n\r\nIt's
    interesting how Blumenthal was in such denial about the pivotal positive role
    that Hoell played... To me Emerson would have been lukewarm at best without Hoell's
    contribution.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-10 23:16:29'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "I've finally had the chance to look at a scan Dan Rhatigan sent through to
    me a while ago, from the MT archives. I don't feel I can post it here, but I've
    compared the original foundry version with the MT version.\r\n\r\nMy observations
    of the changes:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Overall the MT face is lighter. Odd perhaps, wouldn't
    both versions have used the same kinds of ink in the presses?\r\n<li> Round letters
    (CDOQ especially) are considerably lighter.\r\n<li> HMNPS were made narrower.
    (To fit the 18-unit system?)\r\n<li> Terminals on CGS were trimmed down.\r\n<li>
    Lowercase extenders were brought in.\r\n<li> Arched counters on m and n were raised.
    Similar with the a. Crossbars of f and t thinned.\r\n<li> Zero was changed from
    round to narrow form (still oldstyle, both have same modulation). </li></ul>\r\n\r\nI
    think the last is the only stylistic change, the other adaptations seem to have
    been made for practical reasons.\r\n\r\nI'm afraid my observations are sadly not
    quantified due to the low-ish resolution images I have, but I'm hoping to make
    some high resolution scans fairly soon, and see what else the MT archives hold."
  created: '2012-02-19 22:24:54'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Overall the MT face is lighter. Odd perhaps, wouldn't both versions
    have used the same kinds of ink in the presses? </cite>\r\n\r\nMy guess (only
    a wild-ass guess) is that perhaps because hot metal is softer than foundry, the
    anticipation was that the type might wear slightly over any moderately long run
    (for books, for example) and gain as a result. \r\n\r\n(It\u2019s a stretch, and
    I have no evidence or direct experience, but that was my first thought upon reading
    your observation.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-02-20 13:08:53'
- author:
    name: ultrasparky
    picture: 109750
  body: "Ben, I don't remember all the details from the correspondence about Monotype's
    cut of Emerson, but I at least remember that there was discussion about the weight,
    and trials printed to compare the foundry cut against ours. You can correct me
    if you come and look through the files, but IIRC it was a conscious decision to
    get at a weight that seemed more in line with other text faces in the library.\r\n\r\n[[http://ultrasparky.tumblr.com/post/17964873656/comparison-of-foundry-vs-monotype-cuts-of-emerson|Here's
    a scan of the comparison setting]]"
  created: '2012-02-20 20:39:40'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: Ha, there's the man! Thanks for chiming in, Dan. I did wonder if it was something
    to do with Monotype's house style.
  created: '2012-02-20 21:15:51'
- author:
    name: St Brigid Press
  body: "Hello All,\r\nThanks to all who have provided information on Spiral / Emerson.
    Has anyone investigated or put to use ARTypes' recent (2014) digital version,
    called Spiral? https://www.myfonts.com/fonts/artypes/spiral/  \r\nTo my novice
    eye, it is not as light as the version at Nonpareil (http://nonpareiltype.com/emerson.html),
    and seems more compact. \r\nThank you for your help.\r\nEmily Hancock\r\nSt Brigid
    Press\r\nstbrigidpress.net"
  created: '2017-09-10 17:39:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I'm waiting for Ben's version...  :-)
  created: '2017-09-10 21:08:43'
date: '2005-09-21 21:24:15'
node_type: forum
title: Old Emerson Typeface

---
