---
author:
  name: Norbert Florendo
  picture: 110725
body: "My turn for a dumb question.\r\n\r\nYes, we know that the typographic term
  <em>[[color]]</em> refers to the level of gray of a block of text.\r\n\r\nBut how
  or why did the word \"color\" come to mean that in typography. Obviously the use
  of colored inks in printing pre-date the use of movable type, and lettering in manuscripts
  were also in various color inks or tempera.\r\n\r\nWas the term \"color\" actually
  derived from another word, language or term much in the same way as \"font\"? I
  am actually interested in knowing since many students don't seem too satisfied with
  the conventional answer of \"color\" means grayness.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know of
  an historic reference and not just a speculative answer?\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "OK, let's take a different approach.\r\n\r\nAccording to the <a href=\"http://www.irisa.fr/faqtypo/lexique.html\"
    target=\"new\"><em>DICTIONNAIRE TYPOGRAPHIE MULTILINGUE</em></a> the following
    are equivalent terminology for \"type color/colour\" in:\r\n\r\nFrench -- <em>couleur
    typographique</em>\r\nGerman -- none?\r\nItalian -- <em>tono</em>\r\nSpanish --
    <em>color</em>\r\n\r\nSurely an equivalent term for type color exists in both
    German and Dutch. Perhaps the original root term can be found in either of these
    places of type infancy.\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm very curious!"
  created: '2005-09-24 17:15:30'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "German: Grauwert (Grayscale)\r\n\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2005-09-24 17:48:53'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Thanks, Adreas.\r\nIt seems so far that <em>color</em> is just an unimaginative
    and confusing English term."
  created: '2005-09-24 17:51:01'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Norbert\r\n\r\nThe first book on printing, Mechanick Exercises on the Whole
    Art of Printing, by Joseph Moxon, 1683\u20134, mentions colour. \r\n\r\nGood Colour.
    Printed neither too Black or too White.\r\n\r\nPale Colour. If there be not Blacking
    enough in the Inck, or the Form be Beaten with too Lean Balls, the Work will be
    said to have a Pale Colour.\r\n\r\nA note on some of these terms. The form would
    be the page of metal type. Ink balls were used to print with (rollers weren't
    used until the early nineteenth century).\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-25 01:07:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Color me curious too.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-25 02:25:57'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: Gerald, I doubt that this is talking about the same colour as Norbert is talking
    about. I suspect this is about the blackness of the ink, whether it is too much
    ink or too little ink.
  created: '2005-09-25 07:10:10'
- author:
    name: sebsan
    picture: 110914
  body: "The italian word <em>tono</em> means <em>tone</em>. This one seems more appropriate
    to describe what we refer to as <em>colour</em> or <em>color</em> in typographhy.
    \ It may be that at some point the two words\u2014colour and tone\u2014became
    interchangable."
  created: '2005-09-25 12:27:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "We all know it is meant to describe the evenness of the page with respect
    to the type.  I wonder if it was first used by printers who were pulling proofs
    to check impression and ink, or by punch cutters trying to determine if their
    fonts were balanced in stroke weights?  The ink makes more sense when you refer
    to color but punch cutters didn't have the luxury of instant proofing we have
    today to checK our type.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-25 16:49:13'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Very true, Chris.\r\nType and typography had always been part of the printer
    craft and guild. The mixing of inks, the eveness of printed impressions, the consistency
    of ink color and impressions from folio to folio, all this was controlled with
    great understanding of technique and technology.\r\n\r\nThat's why I find the
    terms \"color,\" Grauwert or tono off-the-mark in trying to describe the subtle
    yet complex levels of visual effects created by adjusting letter or linespacing,
    point size, column widths, selection of typeface, weight of typeface, and so on
    and so on...\r\n\r\nIn other words, EVERYTHING that typography involves is contained
    within the single term <em>color</em>. It embodies more than just the <em>grayness</em>
    of blocks of copy, but also the texture created by the glyphs themselves, dazzle,
    spikeyness, flow, <em>textura</em>.\r\n\r\nIt just dawned on me... maybe because
    the \"secrets\" of the Guild kept the terminology obtuse because it indeed embodied
    all the mysteries of typography.\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm colorful!"
  created: '2005-09-25 18:50:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I suspect this is about the blackness of the ink\r\n\r\nBut that's probably
    still the source of the term. In fact that was my hunch before Gerald revealed
    the Moxon passage. Also, you could say that when type is small enough (like for
    text) they really become the same thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-25 20:15:58'
- author:
    name: leonpmc
  body: I've always viewed the term color as referring to the intensity of the ink
    on the page, its definition with white space, and the residual contrast thereby
    formed. The relative strength and definition of that contrast is the color of
    the type on the printed surface.
  created: '2005-09-26 09:16:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'I''ve always thought "color" was a perfect term for the overall density of
    the type, meaning: not just the amount of black in the letters themselves, but
    also  that which results from the spacing and leading...because "color" in its
    more general definition, does not exist in typography otherwise...if you see what
    I mean.'
  created: '2005-09-26 12:37:16'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "So, in comparison to the range, detail, descriptive and technical terminology
    used by type design, typography suffers from both lack and vagueness of descriptive
    terminology.\r\n\r\nThis has been my main point, and also the reason why it is
    difficult to make graphic designers aware of the nuances and <em>visual refinement</em>
    that can be made to blocks of copy.\r\n\r\nTypographic training rarely goes beyond
    basic typesetting techniques. Why? Because it is easier to describe and even easier
    to implement nowadays. \r\n\r\nPick the typeface, point size, linespacing, tracking
    (letterspacing) and column widths and you are done. OR open the leading, tighten
    the letterspacing, and pick a lighter weight of the typeface and \"Oh my gosh!\"
    I've changed the <em>color</em>.\r\n\r\nMuch of typographic terminology is really
    just markup and proofing notation with a little bit of type design speak. The
    more sophisticated levels of typography use <em>warm-fuzzy/cold-prickly</em> descriptions
    which are difficult to describe without explicit illustrations.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-26 15:02:12'
- author:
    name: fractal
    picture: 110979
  body: "<cite>Pick the typeface, point size, linespacing, tracking (letterspacing)
    and column widths and you are done. OR open the leading, tighten the letterspacing,
    and pick a lighter weight of the typeface and \u201COh my gosh!\u201D I\u2019ve
    changed the color.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis has been my experience, (except that I didn't
    even know of the term \"colour\"). Likely common knowledge here, but another thing
    that affects the colour of a page for me are the margins; where the block of text
    sits in realtion to the surrounding whitespace.\r\n\r\n\r\npd"
  created: '2005-09-26 16:53:42'
- author:
    name: timfm
    picture: 110404
  body: "\u201CThe density of texture in a written or typeset page is called its color.
    This has nothing to do with red or green ink; it refers only to the darkness or
    blackness of the letterforms in mass. Once the demands of legibilty and logical
    order are satisfied, eveness of color is the typographer's normal aim. And color
    depends on four things: the design of the type, the spacing between the letters,
    the spacing between the words, and the spacing between the lines. None is independent
    of the others.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u201CColor  The darkness of the type as set in mass,
    which is not the same as the weight of the face itself. The spacing of words and
    letters, the leading of lines, and the incidence of capitals, not to mention the
    color (i.e., darkness) of the ink and of the paper it is printed on, all affect
    the color of the type.\u201D\r\n\r\n\u2014Robert Bringhurst\r\nThe Elements of
    Typographic Style"
  created: '2005-09-27 05:15:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> eveness of color is the typographer\u2019s normal aim\r\n\r\nWrong.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 05:51:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "\"The most important thing is for the color to be even and consistent.\"
    James Felici, The Complete Manual of Typography, p. 104\r\n\r\nFelici is a long
    time type setter from the metal era on, so what he says, as well as what Bringhurst
    says, reflects a standard view.\r\n\r\nYou can disagree with the wisdom of that
    received view, Hrant, but that it is the received view I don't see how you can
    deny given these quotes. Can you quote one well known type designer or typographer
    who advocates uneveness of color?  "
  created: '2005-09-27 06:13:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not that they don't know what they're <cite>doing</cite>, it's that
    they're not really in touch with what's really going on, at least not enough to
    be able to discuss it properly. They need to put those pretty phrases aside and
    focus on truly expressing the nature of the foundation.\r\n\r\nTotally even color
    is a solid gray blob - 100% unreadable. Good typography on the other hand relies
    on a balance of white and black, on a balance of even color and color contrast.
    Information comes from contrast, not a gray blob. Some people are just not sufficiently
    in tune with the underlying mechanics of how humans see and interpret things,
    and not sufficiently critical of precedent, to be able to see the shiny Modernist
    mantras for the claptrap that they really are; all they do is perpetuate meaningless
    myths that nobody really even believes in.\r\n\r\nSo: What you point out is not
    the received view. It's merely the\r\nreceived <cite>expressions</cite>, which
    in fact do not match any view at all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 06:37:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The way Felici uses the word 'color' it includes balance of black and white,
    not even gray. Here is more Felici:\r\n\r\n\"If there is an essential truism in
    typesetting, it is that a page contains no voids, only spaces between printed
    elements. The essence of typesetting is regulating the size of those spaces to
    control the balance and rhythm between black and white. This is the key to a graphically
    harmonious page--one with good *type color*--as well as to text that is pleasing
    and easy to read.\"\r\n\r\nIt is an even texture, not a uniform grey that is aimed
    at in the idea of \"even color\". \r\n\r\nI am not saying that \"color\" is all
    that satisfactory term. As Norbert points out in the beginning of this thread,
    it is not very descriptive or clear. But if you are saying that \"even color\"
    doesn't refer to something real and important in type, I think you are very off
    base. Typographers have known what it refers to--an important quality in type
    and page design and composition--even though they haven't perhaps ever explained
    it well. \r\n\r\nAnd it has nothing to do with modernism. I'm pretty sure the
    phrase 'evenness of color' predates 20th century modernism.\r\n\r\nThe people
    who have been working daily to produce evenly colored pages know what they are
    referring to. It is not bogus. The question is how to explain it more clearly
    and fully. \r\n   "
  created: '2005-09-27 07:11:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm sorry, but you're having the same problem they're having: not managing
    to express what you mean. Texture, color, rhythm, all mish-mashed together. And
    although the intent is fine, I have to think that part of the problem is a failure
    to grasp the central role of <cite>unevenness</cite> in communication. And this
    is very much a symptom of Modernism (which goes way, way further back than the
    20th century btw, it was just called other things, like \"The Enlightenment\"
    for example). Grandiose, misguided phrases.\r\n\r\n\"Color\" doesn't have to be
    ambiguous or confusing - it just has to be used well.\r\nSame goes for \"even\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 07:21:14'
- author:
    name: fractal
    picture: 110979
  body: "If I understand what you are saying, it is contrast (unevenness of colour
    in this context) which draws understanding from information. One could take this
    back to a time where seeing a silhouette on the horizon could mean dinner or death.\r\n\r\nI
    agree with this view insofar as print is meant to be read and understood. But
    are we not talking about the aesthetic presentation of the printed page or book
    when we speak of colour?\r\n\r\nI took \"evenness of colour\" to mean that kerning,
    leading, margins, type choice and size etc. all combine to deliver the look of
    a page in its own right. However, I assumed right away that the phrase went on
    to mean that consecutive pages would also adhere to the same conditions thereby
    ensuring a consistent looking document. \r\n\r\npd"
  created: '2005-09-27 08:11:02'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\nI think I understand what you are intending. (?) I agree that
    the \"expressions\" are merely acceptances of ideas or values that may have been
    hashed out in the not too distant past. Mainly by the early to mid twentieth century
    apostlehood. If you follow them to their historic roots there seems to be only
    an interpretation, or reinterpretation, or misinterpretation, of a long distant
    era.\r\n\r\nBut I am not in any way sure of what you are suggesting as other.
    An example?\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-09-27 09:26:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not managing to express what you mean\r\n\r\nI would say rather that you
    are not reading what I wrote, but some fantasy of an opponent. I said the term
    'color' is not very descriptive, but that it refers to something real, and the
    challenge is to explain it. \r\n\r\nLetter forms are diverse, and obviously deliberately,
    so that one letter is distinguishable from others. The H and the O don't look
    alike. But when you space a string of Hs and Os for a typeface, you aim at a quality
    that typographers and type designers have sometimes called 'even color'. In 'Letters
    of Credit' Walter Tracy uses the words 'harmony' and 'balance' to refer to this,
    rather than 'even color'. Others speak of the volume of space between the letters
    being uniform--though what that volume is is somewhat hard to define (how far
    does the volume extend into the 'c'?). What is aimed at is a visual quality that
    practiced typographers will have a large degree of agreement on--such on what
    constitutes 'good' kerning--what, yes achieves 'even color'.  \r\n\r\n'Evenness
    of color' is not a phrase that denies diversity, but rather tries to express in
    a not very clear phrase a visual harmony and balance in a diverse group of symbols
    on a page. \r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nBy the way, your view that the Enlightenment was
    opposed to diversity is balderdash. Before the Enlightenment Europeans were busy
    killing each other over which version of Christianity should be imposed on everyone.
    The Enlightenment supported freedom of opinion, tolerance and diversity.   "
  created: '2005-09-27 13:34:28'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: "I think it was Hrant who mentions on an article that word recognition in
    a given script depends on the unevennes of the letterforms of that word, and that
    is why it is more difficult to read all capital words/sentences.\r\n\r\nIf I understgand
    Hrant correctly, evennes in the color of type will decrease its legibility, because
    it will turn into grey. It is the unevennes that makes it recognizable and readable.\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 13:53:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">If I understgand Hrant correctly\r\n\r\nI think you do understand Hrant
    correctly, but his use of the term 'even color' is a misuse of the term, if he
    thinks it means going to complete grey. It is not what others have meant by the
    term, as the above quotations indicate. It is about harmony and balance, not uniformity.
    \r\n\r\nAlso I might mention that letterforms have both diversity and sameness.
    For example a degree of uniformity of stem width, serifs etc. A certain balance
    of diversity and repetition seems to be valuable for readibility. \r\n\r\nI think
    trying to understand that balance would be more productive than ascribing stupid
    views to those who have used the term in the past. I don't think they were stupid,
    even though the terminology is poor. "
  created: '2005-09-27 14:08:00'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>Once the demands of legibilty and logical order are satisfied, eveness
    of color is the typographer\u2019s normal aim.</em>\r\n\r\nI think the order of
    desirable attributes is important here. \r\n\r\nIt seems logical that eveness
    of colour will conflict with legibility while promoting a better initial view
    of a page, it also strikes me that the two qualities are separated by scale and
    action; in that, the reader takes an initial view, \"mmm\u2026 strong rectangular
    form\", then 'zooms'* in to start reading, \"ahhh\u2026 I can read this without
    skipping lines\". There may be a point at which the actions of looking and reading
    overlap and it seems that the overlap should be kept to a minimum, whether by
    scientific methods or by personal experience of reading.\r\nSo the first action
    should remain subordinate to the second. However, the action of reading can be
    disrupted by too wide a gap in between characters, words etc. So it seems that
    another term would be useful to describe this micro eveness of colour.\r\n\r\n*not
    the best description but hopefully understandable.\r\n\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-09-27 15:15:59'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Eveness in the overall darkness or blackness of the letterforms-in-mass--a
    textural density issue on the macro-scale of a column or page of type, as Bringhurst
    implies--doesn't at all conflict with or imply not being in touch with or realizing
    the importance of a black / white balance in bounded glyph-clusters on the intermediate
    scale of words in a line of type.
  created: '2005-09-27 15:53:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Is it really worth the effort for me to sort through\r\nall this, put it
    in order, and try to reduce the cronic\r\nconfusion where there should be none?
    Damned if I know.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> But are we not talking about the aesthetic
    presentation\r\n> of the printed page or book when we speak of colour?\r\n\r\nWell,
    I'm not. I'm talking about functionality, and the fallacy of the supreme merit
    of even color. Aesthetics? Some people like a gray blob, others like a gray rainbow.
    I don't think taste is worth arguing about.\r\n\r\n> I took \u201Cevenness of
    colour\u201D to mean that kerning, leading, margins,\r\n> type choice and size
    etc. all combine to deliver the look of a page\r\n> in its own right.\r\n\r\nI
    fail to see what one has to do with the other. The \"look of the page\", not to
    mention its readability depends on <cite>uneven</cite> color as much as even color.
    It comes from <cite>balanced</cite> color, and I don't mean a formal, conscious
    balance.\r\n\r\n> But I am not in any way sure of what you are suggesting as other.
    An example?\r\n\r\nYou mean an example of what I think would be better? I think
    typical current practice (at the high/sensitive end, not the secretaries using
    Comic Sans for that flyer) is fine, if not great. It's become that way through
    centuries of pragmatic, instinctive, quiet evaluation/experimentation. It's become
    that way <cite>in spite</cite> of the superficial, posturing worhip of Even Color.\r\n\r\nA
    good example of the value of uneven color is... stroke contrast!\r\n\r\n> I said
    the term \u2018color\u2019 is not very descriptive, but that it\r\n> refers to
    something real, and the challenge is to explain it.\r\n\r\nYes, it's not an ideal
    term, but explaining it is only a challenge (in fact it becomes impossible) if
    you think color has to actually be even.\r\n\r\n> Letter forms are diverse, and
    obviously deliberately\r\n\r\n1) How do we know they're diverse <cite>enough</cite>?
    By taking many second to identify a letter -made in a certain conventional way,
    mind you- at a huge size? If we really look at immersive reading, it's pretty
    clear they're not diverse enough - that they can be more diverse and only a certain
    class of type designer would mind.\r\n2) Deliberate? You must be joking. The cases
    of deliberate differentiation of characters (like the crossbar on the \"7\", which
    most people don't even use) are quite rare. See \"Canons of Alphabetic Change\"
    in \"The Alphabet and the Brain\".\r\n\r\n> Walter Tracy uses the words \u2018harmony\u2019
    and \u2018balance\u2019 to refer to this\r\n\r\nAre you trying to make this <cite>more</cite>
    confusing?\r\n\r\nThe Enlightenment: people die less or more depending on what
    the people in power want. Your cherished 20th century, the height of Modernism,
    saw more deaths that at any time in history. Modernism started with monotheism/Rome.
    It is a lust for Control, through regularism/predictability/simplicity. It does
    not match the human reality, at least not more than about half.\r\n\r\n> It is
    the unevennes that makes it recognizable and readable.\r\n\r\nAnd virtually everybody
    agrees with this (it's just the degree/flavor that we argue about). Unfortunately
    though too many people seem to prefer the numbing incantation, \"even colorrrrr,
    ohmmmmm, even colorrrrr, ohmmmmm...\" Slap them awake, I say.\r\n\r\n> It is not
    what others have meant by the term\r\n\r\nPlease ask them to use English better
    then. And they're not stupid, just too susceptible to illusion and pretty phrases.\r\n\r\n>
    Once the demands of legibilty and logical order are satisfied,\r\n> eveness of
    color is the typographer\u2019s normal aim.\r\n\r\nBut why would you separate
    the two like that?\r\n\r\nNow, I do agree that there are layers of reading - and
    un/even color needs a different balance depending. However, \u201Cahhh\u2026 I
    can read this without skipping lines\u201D never happens.\r\n\r\n> Eveness in
    the overall darkness or blackness of the letterforms-in-mass\r\n\r\nBut this is
    confined to theory/hypothesis, at least in terms of function. When you get down
    to designing an actual font for example, if you try to shoot for totally even
    color, you're dead. Nevermind that's not even possible - which however doesn't
    seem to stop people from thinking that's what they're doing. Because it sounds
    nice. Much better than \"I'm trying to strike this tricky, essentially unattainable
    balance between black and white, between macro distraction and micro divergence.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 18:01:37'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: ">\u201CI\u2019m trying to strike this tricky, essentially unattainable balance
    between black and white, between macro distraction and micro divergence.\u201D
    \r\n\r\nThis seems like just another way of saying 'I am trying to acheive visual
    balance'. A more explicet way but not essenstailly different.\r\n\r\nThis 'balance'
    could also be described as 'eveness'. All these terms are remarkably opaque unless
    you see what someone means by them. It is *only then* that you can see if you
    agree.\r\n\r\nAbout this terms color... Color is a broad trerm sometimes incorrectly
    made synonymous with saturation. Color is actually inclusive of hue, shade, saturation,
    lightness, darkness, greyscale etc and so on. It's a big basket - a catch-all.
    \r\n\r\nSo I have to agree that using te term color is a very vague way of expressing
    the idea. On the other hand perhaps deliberate vaguesness is better than an imperfect
    word that can be more readily misconstrued like 'eveness'. Maybe it's good at
    provoking the question 'what could you possibly mean by that'.\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 18:31:38'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "&#8658; <em>typography suffers from both lack and vagueness of descriptive
    terminology</em>\r\n ... to quote myself.\r\n\r\n&#8658; <em>The more sophisticated
    levels of typography use warm-fuzzy/cold-prickly descriptions which are difficult
    to describe without explicit illustrations.</em> \r\n... to quote myself again.\r\n\r\nColor
    (prisma) and <em>color</em> in typography are both measurable (wavelengths, total
    area density of glyphs on field) as well subjective visual experiences by viewers.\r\n\r\nMy
    personal sense of <em>color</em> in typography comes from my person sense of color
    as a painter in fine arts.  I am able to see text as texture and glyphs as being
    fine to coarse droplets of ink.\r\n\r\nMy views on typography are both right brain
    and left brain.\r\n\r\nA pragmatic view of typography is essentially the technical
    craft of what used to be called typesetting. I guess a more accurate term would
    be copysetting. It incorporates various guidelines for readability and layout,
    and allows for a moderate amount of expressiveness. The majority of literature
    on typography only gets this far in viewpoints and guidance.\r\n\r\nFor lack of
    a term, there is an ascendant state of typographic awareness that explores levels
    of visual perception and cognitive experience. Obviously this is non-exclusive
    to typography and is more often experienced in music, fine arts, performing and
    cinematic arts, and mathematics.\r\n\r\nThis is the realm where we as a community
    strive to be. This is where Picasso's admiration of Matisse exists, where Salieri's
    murderous jealousy of Mozart sprang forth, and why arguments between Hrant and
    Berkson colide with sheer sparks of insight and inspiration.\r\n\r\nMaybe this
    is why <em>color</em> remains such a vague term in typography, because descriptions
    fall short of experiencing it.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 20:20:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ">My personal sense of color in typography comes from my person sense of color
    as a painter < \r\n\r\n\"Arrangement in Grey and Black\"\r\nYou weren't just Whistlering
    Dixie:-)\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-27 20:43:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> ascendant state of typographic awareness\r\n\r\nTell 'em bout it, brother!
    \r\n\r\nWow, what a sermon. Amen :)\r\n\r\n>You weren\u2019t just Whistlering
    Dixie:-)\r\n\r\nI don't know notan about that. "
  created: '2005-09-27 20:56:18'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: "After going over this discussion agian and again, I am starting to get the
    feeling that evenness is a synonym for monotonous. I mean, lets put aside the
    diversity of the letters, legibility, logical order, and whatever else that forces
    itself to be uneven, and make whatever remains even. I mean lets put aside the
    different faces, different body types, different heights, different quirks of
    each person in a military troop march, it is simply boring, especially if you
    have more that a handfull of pages in front of you.\r\n\r\nUniformity I can accept.
    No, uniformity most of the time I would insist on. Evenness makes things stale.
    It is the unevenness that stimulates the perception to understand the colorless.
    In other words it is the unevennes that gives the boring vitality, and the monotonous
    glamour."
  created: '2005-09-27 21:01:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But Levon, those in power <cite>like</cite> it boring...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 21:05:36'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "<cite>According to the DICTIONNAIRE TYPOGRAPHIE MULTILINGUE the following
    are equivalent terminology for \u201Ctype color/colour\u201D in:\r\nFrench \u2014
    couleur typographique</cite>\r\n\r\nIn french we speak more often about <a href=\"http://tnemeth.free.fr/linuxdocs/tt.html\">gris
    typographique</a> than about couleur typographique.\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 21:15:53'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "It is both impossible and undesirable to get \"perfect eveness\" of typographic
    color.\r\n\r\nThough I started the topic thread, I haven't gotten around to describing
    and illustrating the methods used to view and fine tune text color.\r\n\r\nOne
    fact remains true. The calligrapher and typographer must rely on the given language
    and text of the document. Since the copy is a given, there is no control over
    the sequence and order of glyphs. Therefore the patterns and textures created
    by letterforms will always be irregular. Unless you were setting a text block
    using only a single character, there will always be modulating frequencies and
    haphazard patterns of positive to negative forms.\r\n\r\nAin't dat great!\r\nDissonance
    and not symmetry is where the magic lies.\r\n(Hmmm... I guess I'm mixing terms
    here. <em>Asymmetry</em> vs. symmetry is more appropriate. Or <em>melodic</em>
    vs. monotone is even better.)\r\n\r\n-------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but my back has style!"
  created: '2005-09-27 21:29:27'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: "In a graduate history course we discussed the fall of empires. To jump to
    the conclusion, the more power the empire practices over neighboring states, the
    closer its demise. And it is usually the smallest and most insignificant that
    puts the knife into the heart.\r\n\r\nI am not comparing, I just remembered this
    because it was vedry interesting."
  created: '2005-09-27 21:35:03'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Thank you, Andre.\r\nI will make note <em>gris typographique</em> is the
    preferred term. Would you say \"gray typography\" is a close translation?\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 21:40:02'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: hey! me no french. english anyone?
  created: '2005-09-27 21:45:04'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>More like 'typographic gray'</em>\r\n\r\ndid I get that right, Hrant?\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 21:50:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Or as a true Frenchman would say, \"THE typographic gray\".  :-)\r\nLike
    that book by Paput called \"The Punchcutting\", which\r\nI suspect is ideally
    pronounced with the emphasis on the\r\nlast syllable.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 21:55:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Now that's using your grey matter to make grey matter (and help clear up
    the matter).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-27 22:09:48'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "<em>gris typographique</em> is \"typographic grey\";\r\nthe German <em>Grauwert</em>
    (way above) is \"grey-value\" not \"greyscale\"\r\n\r\nAll 'even' asks for is
    a consistent grey-value across a textblock top to bottom and left to right in
    a page of pure text, such as one finds in a descriptive essay or expository text.
    The grey-value is constituted by the play of black and white within the text block.
    'Even' is an emergant quality. 'Even' at the text-block level does not mean undifferentiated
    at the letterform construction or stroke contrast level. If it is 'even' the setting
    is not disturbed by rivers, clogged with areas of greater density of black, such
    as might be caused by pockets of too boldly rendered double two-story g's. Consistency
    of grey-value is not in competition with the need for stems bowls and counters
    to have proper salience and independant cue-value at the microscale of wordform
    resolution. Professionally-set well-printed pages set in Smeijer's Quadraat, a
    moderately lively typeface, can have a wonderfully assertive but still consistent
    grey value top to bottom, front to back over many pages in its running text areas.
    A ragged right setting, dynamic positioning of the text-block on the page, subheadings
    or section marks in a contrasting weight, strategically placed running heads and
    folios, can give pages with a consistent grey value in their running text vitality,
    articulation and navigability.\r\n\r\n'Eveness' or consistency of grey-value at
    the macro-scale of the text-block is not a power grab of the complacent. And it
    isn't the only requirement. It has a place within a heirarchy of typographic values.
    'Eveness' and consistency of grey-value at the macro-scale of the paragraph or
    text-block are perceptual processing requirements for a smooth reading experience,
    an experience not distracted by the subliminally signaling force of non-essential
    variation in colour or rhythm.  "
  created: '2005-09-27 22:53:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">\u2018Eveness\u2019 and consistency of grey-value at the macro-scale of
    the paragraph or text-block are perceptual processing requirements for a smooth
    reading experience, an experience not distracted by the subliminally signaling
    force of non-essential variation in colour or rhythm.\r\n\r\nRight on! \r\n\r\n>Consistency
    of grey-value is not in competition with the need for stems bowls and counters
    to have proper salience and independant cue-value at the microscale of wordform
    resolution.\r\n\r\nActually there is a conflict or tension between the need for
    diversity of letter form, and the evenness of color that promotes smooth, easy
    reading. It's the job of a designer of text type--maybe his or her main job--to
    reconcile the two. To have a lively, variegated texture, and yet balance and evenness
    to words and sentences constructed from the letters. "
  created: '2005-09-27 23:06:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If it is \u2018even\u2019 the setting is not disturbed by rivers, clogged
    ...\r\n\r\n\r\nThis argument falls apart when you take into account that lack
    of \"disturbance\" is: relative, not least in terms of the reader; and no guarantee
    that functionality is optimal, not least because there is a chasm between deliberative
    observation of a layout versus actually reading it. As Optima demonstrates so
    well, there is such a thing as too-even color, and that's all the evidence one
    should really need.\r\n\r\nA typographer who <cite>really</cite> wants Even Color
    will use a fat monoline sans in all-caps, in a medium gray tone, with just enough
    leading to make consecutive lines appear as close as consecutive words are. Heck,
    he might even forego blank spaces! Fortunately, we only have some people <cite>pretending</cite>
    that's desirable, and not even explicitly; when you really corner the Even Color
    boys with the right arguments, they turn into hot steam... and disappear.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem here might simply be the term \"even\".\r\nBut personally I think it's
    a manifestation of a deeper psycho-cultural problem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 23:18:54'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: William, perhaps I should have said "<em>need not be</em> in competition".
    There are or can be countervailing pressures, but they can be successfully navigated.
    One or the other need not win. The tension inherent in the countervailing pressures
    can be generative of new approaches. Design is always at a set of crossroads.
  created: '2005-09-27 23:24:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, when the even boys and girls use 'even' in relation to colour, they
    do not mean featureless regularity. To make your point you need to pretend that
    they do. What part of the slipshod extension of the everyday term 'even' to 'colour'
    or 'grey-value' in type-composition contexts by type-involved practitoners don't
    you understand?\r\n\r\nIn my argument I interchanged 'even' with 'consistent'
    and I pointed out that the signalling effect of disturbance is subliminal. I am
    an 'even' boy at the macro-scale of text-composition. I don't feel cornered, and
    I'm not evaporating into clogged rivers of hot steam."
  created: '2005-09-27 23:45:34'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Because <em>color</em> or grayness are vague terms, we are imparting too
    much significance to what was meant to be one characteristic of block setting.\r\n\r\nFor
    a moment, let's examine the one sentence description found in our own [[Typowiki]]:\r\n<dl>\r\n<dt>Indices:
    Terminology: <strong>[[Color]]</strong></dt><dd>The color of a typeface refers
    to the overall lightness or darkness of a set paragraph of text, and is generally
    thought of in terms of levels of gray.</dd></dl>\r\nThe other definitions cited
    in this thread suffer from the same mistake of including non-essential and extraneous
    descriptions of typography. Clarity and simplicity of meaning will do a lot in
    understanding the essential aspect of the term <em>color</em>.\r\n\r\nFIRST: Strip
    away \"typeface\" from the definition. Since a block of copy can contain several
    weights (book, medium, bold), styles (roman, italic, condensed) and even kinds
    (serif, sans serif, script) of typefaces it is only the DENSITY of glyphs that
    matter.\r\n\r\nSECOND: \"Paragraph\" confuses the definition. It is a block or
    deliniated area of glyphs we are attempting to describe.\r\nA single page can
    contain several blocks or areas of text which are differentiated by <em>color</em>
    (captions, sidebars, extended quotations). If our refined definition of <em>typographic
    color</em> holds true, then even changing the line measure (indenting) or justification
    (centering) affects the overall color.\r\n\r\nTHIRD: Remove any references to
    \"readability\" from the definition. The typographer must look at readability
    as a separate issue from <em>color</em>. You can make one or two minor adjustments
    (leading, letterspacing) that would affect <em>color</em> while the readability
    of the text remains virtually the same.\r\n\r\nFORTH: For clarity, replace <em>gray</em>
    with <em>tonal value</em>. The terms \"tone\" and \"value\" individually have
    multiple meanings, but together speak specifically to the range of light to dark.
    Copy blocks set in or reversed out of actual ink colors (red, blue, etc.) can
    vary in tonal value so why confuse it with \"gray.\" Also, different ink colors
    can have the same tonal value, so in that instance it is HUE that differentiates
    blocks of copy.\r\n\r\nFIFTH: Keep texture as separate from typographic color.
    Though both are integral, one modulates the other much in the same way melody
    and cadence do in music.\r\n\r\nBy focusing on one perceivable attribute I believe
    we can arrive at clearer definition of the typographic term <em>color</em> (though
    I personally would replace it with <em>tonal density</em>). But before we attempt
    it, I feel we to exercise our eyes with a few examples. Remember the expression,
    \"You can't see the forest through the trees\"? You can't see <em>color</em> when
    you are too close to the type.\r\n\r\nEXAMPLES OF TYPOGRAPHIC \"COLOR\"\r\n\r\nGuilelmus
    Parisiensis. \r\n<a href=\"http://www.loc.gov/exhibits/heavenlycraft/images/rw750s.jpg\"
    target=\"new\"><em>Postilla super epistolas et euangelia</em></a>.\r\nVenetian
    Woodcut: Jacobus Pentius de Leuco, 1505. \r\n\r\nVirgil.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.uflib.ufl.edu/spec/rarebook/art3283c/1757.htm\"
    target=\"new\"><em>Bucolica, Georgica et Aeneis</em></a>.\r\nBirminghamiae, typis
    Johannis Baskerville, 1757.\r\n<em>Comentary</em>: \"Baskerville's first book
    was a revolution that influenced printing on the Continent as well as Great Britain.
    New type, new ink, and calendered paper in combination with heavily leaded lines
    and generous margins was a complete break with the past. The typeface he designed
    was open with a graceful elegance. The paper was of his own invention.\"\r\n--
    Brian Slawson, University of Florida, Dept. of Fine Arts\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.library.upenn.edu/finearts/slide/990/99004812.htm\"
    target=\"new\">Sixteenth Vienna Secession Exhibition Poster</a>\r\nVienna 1903,
    design by Alfred Roller \r\n\r\nHomer.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.uflib.ufl.edu/spec/rarebook/art3283c/1932.htm\"
    target=\"new\"><em>The Odyssey / of Homer</em></a>.\r\n1932.\r\nRogers, Bruce,
    1870-1957, book designer.\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-28 05:57:43'
- author:
    name: fractal
    picture: 110979
  body: "Fantastic thread.\r\n\r\nNothing black and white about colour!\r\n\r\npd"
  created: '2005-09-28 06:41:42'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hrant\r\n\r\n\"A good example of the value of uneven color is. . . stroke
    contrast!\"\r\n\r\nHa! I just completed a letterpress job using Monotype Granjon
    (digital). Had to be \"corrected\" a bit but. . .  The stroke constrast drove
    me nuts. But there has been a bit of a sea change in my thinking and I see your
    point. Faces at a microtypographic level don't always reveal their significance
    at a macro level. I think, in regard to this thread, you are dealing with the
    former. And that is not being addressed otherwise. If one examines Caslon Old
    Style or Granjon's Civilite, for instance, at the micro level there is seemingly
    some quite odd stuff that would not rationally seem to make sense, but when they
    are set in text form, there is a wonderful weave (color) to the page. I suspect
    that you are right about where to start. \r\n\r\nA long while back Letraset decided
    to revive some of the great Czech faces but they followed Adobe's thinking about
    digitization and Herman Zapped them to death. They got the harmony and color right,
    but the faces just weren't much to write home about. They took out the funk.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-09-28 09:47:52'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "There is historic relevance in guidelines to achieve <em>eveness of typeface
    color</em>.\r\n\r\nPrior to phototypesetting and offset lithography, there were
    numerous variables that had to be contended with that are no longer present in
    printing today.\r\n\r\nThe \"color of a typeface\" when set in blocks of copy
    could fall prey to known hazards of the trade; poor line casting, poor quality
    of casted font, worn, nicked or smashed type, missing or additional \"lead\" between
    composed lines of copy, uneven placement of spacers (inter-character spacing),
    and so on.\r\n\r\nThese were all potentially present in typesetting and had to
    be corrected during the proof stage. The \"eveness of typeface color\" could be
    disrupted by any of these mechanical variables and screening them out was one
    of several earmarks of quality typography.\r\n\r\nWith current methods of prepress
    and printing we no longer consider combing character by character and line by
    line for inherent typesetting problems. Because of this one should consider method
    of production and historic context when evaluating \"typeface color.\"\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-28 14:48:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">at the micro level there is seemingly some quite odd stuff that would not
    rationally seem to make sense, but when they are set in text form, there is a
    wonderful weave (color) to the page\r\n\r\nGerald, are you suggesting that Caslon
    and Granjon were unaware of the affect that their variations on the micro level
    would have in mass? I think there is good evidence that were acutely aware of
    this, and very deliberately introduced such variations in a way that both created
    lively, readable texture, and still gave even color. I am not sure about how even
    Civilite is, but in other faces Granjon was, and for sure Caslon was aiming at
    this, as well as a varied texture.\r\n\r\nNone of those quoted here claim that
    evenness of color means turning everything to grey. The alway discuss how to balance
    and harmonize diverse elements. \r\n\r\nIt is only Hrant who has created the straw-man
    fantasy of \"the even color boys\" who are supposedly on some whacky crusade to
    turn the world grey to satisfy their lust for control because of their admiration
    of monotheism, Rome, the enlightenment, the twentieth century and whatever else
    Hrant hates. \r\n\r\nIn reality, these old folks were not just aware, but devoted
    to making typography that achieves balance and harmony with diverse elements.
    For traditional printers, the typeface with its diversity of forms was already
    a given, set in metal, and the issue was to mass them in way that is lively but
    retains 'even color'. \r\n\r\nFor the type designer the goal has been to strike
    a balance so the diverse forms of the letters knit into an even texture while
    preserving and emphasizing \"stems bowls and counters ...[that] have proper salience
    and independant cue-value at the microscale.\"\r\n\r\nI like Norbert's suggestion
    to keep even tone and texture as two different variables, which helps clarity.
    However, I have to disagree that color has nothing to do with readability. As
    Peter has noted, evenness of the resulting set type aids readability. The point
    is that you have a predictable, even background, against which the diverse elements
    in the letters that are key for recognition stand out. If you have variation in
    non-informational characteristics this becomes 'noise' that interferes with the
    readability of the text. (My translation of the Ennesonese.) \r\n\r\nSo yes, Hrant,
    you can have too much uniformity and that hurts readibility. But you can also
    have too little and that hurts readibility also. It is the balance that is the
    key, and your crusade against gray is unbalanced.  \r\n\r\nYou can have different
    sizes of type with different 'color' as in Norbert's first example. But if you
    mixed different sizes or colors in the same line it would definitely slow down
    the reader. (Of course, sometimes you want the reader to slow down, and use italics
    or caps, but that is another matter.)"
  created: '2005-09-28 15:30:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> at the micro level there is seemingly some quite odd stuff that\r\n> would
    not rationally seem to make sense, but when they are set\r\n> in text form, there
    is a wonderful weave (color) to the page.\r\n\r\nExactly. The smaller text is,
    the more the \"strangeness\" moves from micro to macro relevance. Furthermore,
    there is a threshold (the deliberative-immersive threshold) below which the reader
    will realize nothing - although his subconscious is still in tune (it always is).
    The best recent example of the power of strangeness is the new Houston Chronicle
    face. Lastly: my feeling is that the nature of this goes beyond strangeness, and
    directly into ugliness; for a text font to be \"real\", it <cite>has</cite> to
    look awkward large.\r\n\r\nWilliam, I don't think you should claim to know what
    other people\r\n(especially ones who've been dead for centuries) were thinking.\r\n\r\n>
    you can have too much uniformity and that hurts readibility.\r\n\r\nYes, and the
    best interpretation of \"even color\" is just that.\r\nPlease use different terminology.
    But not all at once either.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-28 16:54:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">William, I don\u2019t think you should claim to know what other people\r\n(especially
    ones who\u2019ve been dead for centuries) were thinking.\r\n\r\nHrant, I have
    a PhD in History and Philosophy of Science, and it is my business to gain new
    and better understanding of history of ideas, by carefully testing alternative
    historical hypotheses against evidence. I will go on doing it, just as you will
    go on being rude. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-28 17:59:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When you get a degree in Time Travel, with a minor in Mind Reading, <strong>then</strong>
    you could attempt to KNOW, which is not at all the same thing as to \"gain new
    and better understanding of [the] history of ideas\" - I know because I do the
    latter all the time. And then maybe you could shoot for a Bachelor's in Growing
    Skin, or Whine Control. Rude, he says - when I haven't been this gentle in years.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-28 18:40:30'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, if you read what I wrote you will see that I said that there is good
    evidence of their efforts at balancing varied texture and even color, not that
    I am a mind reader who posesses clairvoyance. \r\n\r\nMatthew Carter, among others,
    notes the \"famously even\" quality of Caslon's text type. Because of the widespread
    historical admiration for Caslon on this point, and the knowledge of how difficult
    it is to achieve a good balance, I said I was sure about Caslon. I have been sure
    and wrong before, but I am sure about Caslon. \r\n\r\nI suppose this makes Caslon
    and Carter part of the \"even color boys\" conspiracy who according to you are
    out to turn pages into a bleak, featureless grey. Glad I am in good company.  "
  created: '2005-09-28 19:05:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Caslon was a hack. Carter is not. He is more in tune with Fleischmann, who
    <strong>I'm</strong> pretty sure would be on my side in this discussion. But even
    if he weren't I wouldn't accept that \"even color\" -in the <cite>useful</cite>
    sense of the term- is more than half the story; because the human subconscious
    thrives on divergence - with the consciousness obscuring. Modernism, Even Color,
    Control, are all children of consciousness, lost in the dark, luscious forest.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-28 19:18:57'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "\"Gerald, are you suggesting that Caslon and Granjon were unaware of the
    affect that their variations on the micro level would have in mass? I think there
    is good evidence that were acutely aware of this, and very deliberately introduced
    such variations in a way that both created lively, readable texture, and still
    gave even color. I am not sure about how even Civilite is, but in other faces
    Granjon was, and for sure Caslon was aiming at this, as well as a varied texture.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nWilliam\r\n\r\nI
    sort of thought that was what I said.\r\n\r\n>at the micro level there is seemingly
    some quite odd stuff that would not rationally seem to make sense, but when they
    are set in text form, there is a wonderful weave (color) to the page\r\n\r\nI'd
    think yes, obviously, the punchcutter (rather than type designer in these cases)
    was quite aware of how their letterforms would print on the page. Hrant pointed
    out that there was discordance at the microlevel. I'd agree. This hardly means
    the punchcutter was errant or did not know what he was doing. It simply means
    that there is purposeful discordance. Which I believe was Hrant's point. That
    this can result in a page with appropriate color doesn't alter the claim. But
    it does provide more insight, yes (?); more so than simply re-issuing platitudes
    passed from one apostle to another.\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-09-29 03:25:06'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant: \"[...] even if he weren\u2019t I wouldn\u2019t accept that \"even
    color\" [...] is more than half the story [...] \r\n\r\nI'm not hearing anyone
    saying it is even close to the whole story.\r\nAnd by the way, 'purposeful discordance'
    is a wonderful and very useful concept. I wonder if the fluctuation of axis in
    types in the Mannerist and Lyric Modernist (Mannerist Revival) tradition are purposeful
    in this sense. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-29 04:11:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019m not hearing anyone saying it is even close to the whole story.\r\n\r\nBut
    then why do we not hear nearly as much about the merits of <strong>un</strong>even
    color, of divergence? The answer to that is simple: Modernism, Control, Consciousness.\r\n\r\nDiscord[ance]:\r\nCould
    be said to in fact be a level of harmony beyond a [given] recognition.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-29 04:52:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Gerald, great posts! You made this idea much much clearer! I think I can
    intuit what kinds of things you might mean because I think there are lots of examples
    of couterintuitive or are least seemingly divergent shapes that occur in better
    bold faces for instance. The lc a in Porchez's Costa comes to mind. \r\n\r\nStill,
    I know I am missing plenty. This is probably a bit much but could you show us
    specifically what you mean? I think alot of us who are readiong this could benefit
    from examples. Hrant? What about you? Got some examples? William what do think
    ever seen a purposeful divergence?"
  created: '2005-09-29 07:38:31'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Eben\r\n\r\nWish I could be a wizard here but I am not. This is just a new
    investigative journey for me. Sometimes we are best not to accept the status quo
    or the commonplace or the wisdom of the day. What is the nuts and bolts of the
    idea? Where did it come from? Why do we believe what we believe?\r\n\r\nI am very
    interested here in teasing out of Hrant what he is trying to tease out of us.
    Ain't easy. And, maybe he's not there. But it doesn't hurt to look.\r\n\r\nThe
    thing is, yes, you have to do the work. You are already thinking about it. You
    are on the way.\r\n\r\nGerald\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-29 08:02:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "As Peter says, nobody has said that even color is the only consideration
    in type design or page design. Hrant your \"even color boys\" are just a fantasy,
    so far as I can see. Who exactly is in this crowd? Bringhurst and Felici, who
    brought on your attack, explicitly talk about harmony and balance of diverse element.
    Someone else? \r\n\r\nYes, deliberate variation is important to texture, and I
    do think Peter is right that the variation in stress in, for example Caslon, is
    an example. I think to call it discordance is going too far, though. Such variation
    must be brought into harmony so that, yes, an even color is achieved or else the
    variation will distract and make the text less readable. \r\n\r\nI believe the
    reason that variation is not so much talked about as even color is that variation
    in form is a given, and even color is usually the difficult challenge to achieve,
    whether in type design or page design. You are dealing in design of the roman
    with two different alphabets--caps and lower case--and each letter with a different
    shape and different differentiating features. To keep these differentiating features
    noticeable in the blink of an eye, yet with the evenness to guide and not slow
    down the reader is a major challenge. \r\n\r\nIn the early days of printing even
    color was also mechanically also quite a challenge to achieve, which is another
    reason it was talked about. \r\n\r\nNow it is true that you can achieve even color
    with dullness in page design, or type, so the challenge is much more than even
    color. But even color is such a huge part of the challenge, and that is why it
    is talked about. But Tracy, for example, talks about the dangers of dullness as
    well as the need for harmony and balance. \r\n\r\nNow as to being discordant to
    the point of being ugly or awkward, I think it is demonstrably wrong that this
    is necessary. Baskerville is a refutation. It is an admirably readable text type,
    and each letter has a neoclassical balance and beauty,\r\n\r\nI don't deny that
    you can have effective text types where individual shapes of letters look awkward
    on their own, but the letters in question must look harmonious in combination
    with other letters. If a letter looks awkward or discordant in combination--it
    fails to harmonize--then I think the typeface is hurt as a text face by that letter.
    This applies most strictly to the lower case. With upper case letters, which mark
    the beginning of sentences, it is possible to over weight them, violating even
    color, and for this to be functional. \r\n\r\nThe balance of diversity and evenness
    is a fascinating business, at the heart of good type and page design. "
  created: '2005-09-29 09:35:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Got some examples?\r\n\r\nFleischmann's #65.\r\n\r\n> must be brought into
    harmony\r\n\r\n\"The more you tighten your grip, Tarkin, the more\r\nstar systems
    will slip through your fingers.\"\r\n\r\n> even color is usually the difficult
    challenge to achieve\r\n\r\nQuite the contrary! Making things the same is child's
    play. Making them different, but <cite>intelligently so</cite> is what's beyond
    the abilities -but also desire- of so many. And this is why beginner type designers
    make gridnick fonts.\r\n\r\n> the letters in question must look harmonious in
    combination with other letters.\r\n\r\nIndeed. But if you limit harmony to the
    kiddie kind (superficial formal harmony) you will end up with pointless [text]
    fonts. The harmony you seem to want is not the one the human reality most needs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-29 19:24:05'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Making things the same is child\u2019s play. Making them different, but
    intelligently so is what\u2019s beyond the abilities -but also desire- of so many.\"\r\n\r\nMaking
    glyphs--or place-holders in a glyph set--different enough so that role architectural
    particulars and evoked form have proper salience and independant cue value, but
    the same enough so that they conjoin constructively on a visual wordform level,
    and so that the response bias to visual whole-word-form resolution is not compromised,
    and so that the gestalt impression of the block of text is not problematic, but
    smooth in tone, vibrant in texture and consistent in its attributes across diverse
    blocks of text and within itself, is the mark of a professional--desired by all
    who know their craft, exacting at both ends, and acheived by a goodly number.\r\n\r\nYou
    want to push the 'different' envelope and that is respectable. Others don't, and
    you are frustrated that they don't or that they don't want to push it us far as
    you do. You think intelligent difference is a functional benefit. And you are
    right. But so is formal familiality. They are both important at the subterranean
    level of processing within the visual cortex, or so I believe. And there is no
    error in being mindful of the one (sameness / familiality / conjunctivity) if
    it is not at the expense of the other (difference / divergence / perceptual distance).
    It is just that your sense of where the inflection points (a term I picke up from
    Kevin) between the pressures lies is different from others."
  created: '2005-09-29 20:20:08'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "&#8658; <em>students don\u2019t seem too satisfied with the conventional
    answer of \u201Ccolor\u201D means grayness.</em>\r\n\r\nThis thread has progressed
    into areas of typographic awareness where mere mortals would fear to tread.\r\n\r\nThat
    is to say... \r\nlet the sparks fall where they may and let the meek quake in
    their boots... there's enlightenment in the air!\r\n\r\np.s.> my intent in this
    topic is to come out with better descriptors and possible samples to help graphic
    design students make the leap. I may need to regroup and form another thread later."
  created: '2005-09-29 21:42:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> is the mark of a professional\r\n\r\nI don't think that's what most people
    think \"professional\" means. Strictly speaking, it's much easier to be a professional
    (make a living, or at least good money) than to do what we're talking about. I
    might even say that making money is <cite>opposed</cite> to what we're talking
    about - or even just the act of talking!\r\n\r\nI contend that most people who
    don't want to \"push\" as much as I think we should are simply ideologically lazy.
    And that doesn't make me frustrated. At most it makes me sad. But one thing that
    <cite>does</cite> make me angry is denial - denial that pushing <cite>can</cite>
    be useful - sometimes even denial that pushing exists.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-29 23:05:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"But one thing that does make me angry is denial - denial that pushing can
    be useful\"\r\n\r\nI think that's fair."
  created: '2005-09-29 23:09:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I may be making a kind of squishy thought here if so sorry. But It just occured
    to me that sometimes I have have read the term color in the context of type to
    mean just this idea 'pushing'.  I am a little sick at the moment & don't quite
    trust my thought process... As in 'this face has color' - as opposed to being
    bland. Of course this is also a somewhat couter intuitive use of the term at first
    too. But when you see a beatiful and not dull page it makes some sense I think.
    Color in this sense might be related to saying that the text is lively or sparkles.
    Maybe therfe is a continum\r\n\r\ngrey> dull> plain> color> lively> sparkles>
    hurts my eyes?\r\n\r\n'Color' being the place you would probably want the text
    to be if it was a text face.  'Sparkles' might be okay in a display face. "
  created: '2005-09-29 23:38:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly, \"colorful\" is related to eccentricity in English. On the other
    hand when I hear \"this face has color\", I tend to associate that with an assertive
    darkness (although not Bold), not an \"internal\" <cite>divergence</cite> of color.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-29 23:44:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> \u201Ccolorful\u201D is related to eccentricity in English\r\n\r\nYes,
    if there is too much or it is poorly judged but it can also be said that 'Good
    Color' or is also an important idea - you might say it about a Fruit or Vegi -
    or even someones complexion if they look healthy. This would be in contrast to
    having dull looking skin for instance which would be associated with being un-well
    or spending excessive time in the dark... When I think of type 'having color'
    this is the color I think of.\r\n\r\nThinking about type as being darker in the
    same phrase seems odd & simple to me... It seems would be easier & more descriptive
    to just say it is darker.\r\n\r\nBut this brings us back to the statement already
    made that the term 'color' does take on meaning over time & that what is meant
    by it isn't always all that clear.\r\n\r\nThis ambiguity seems inevitable to me."
  created: '2005-09-30 00:20:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I am also increasingly convinced that the judicious use of divergence is what
    creates a 'healthy' looking type that has 'good color'.
  created: '2005-09-30 00:23:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think you have a point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-30 01:44:43'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "As the dialog continues regarding aspects of <em>typographic [[color]]</em>
    there are two main viewpoints and several issues to consider in order to keep
    proper perspectives.\r\n\r\n<strong>Graphic Design & Typography Viewpoint</strong>\r\nThe
    visual experience and adjustments are made at the macro level in regards to blocks
    of text, juxtaposition with other page or document elements, the graphic designer/typographer
    wrestles with solving \"total balance\" or intentional disharmony if that is the
    intent. Selection of typeface and fine tuning textsetting are the only means of
    solution.\r\n\r\n<strong>Type Design & \"Punchcutter\" Viewpoint</strong>\r\nIn
    regards to developing text faces, design decisions are made based on how they
    resolve at the macro level, with adjustments and fine tuning made at the micro
    level. Once a typeface is released, there are no adjustments to be made by the
    type designer.\r\n\r\n<strong>Issues to consider</strong>\r\nFor the benefit of
    Forum members and readers who may know certain details about type design prior
    to phototypesetting, <em>color</em> was often adjusted by the type designer (and
    punchcutter) for EACH text point size font that was released. If one were to closely
    examine clean specimen sheets of block settings at 8, 9, 10, 12 and 14 pt. text,
    the subtle adjustments to design and widths are quite evident. Also, designers
    of hot metal typefaces were concerned not only with scaling adjustments but also
    account for printing methods where ink had tendencies to \"well up\" and \"plug
    counters.\"\r\n\r\nScaling of digital fonts from text to display settings is of
    major concern to type designers today, though not always apparent to your average
    graphic designer. Training the eye to \"see\" type color is the only way to understand
    what adjustments can be made.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.acmedigital.net/JianSabu/multi-master.htm\"
    target=\"new\"><strong>These illustrations</strong></a> from Adobe's guide to
    creating multiple masters might give the novice an idea of some factors involved.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    the viewer must take into consideration that <em>typeface color</em> can only
    be examined based on final output or near final resolution since the subtle details
    are lost on screen.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-30 19:33:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nice summation dude!
  created: '2005-09-30 21:58:51'
date: '2005-09-24 15:04:10'
node_type: forum
title: Why is it called "Color"?

---
