---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: "So once in a while I see the need for a new term in type design (yeah, like
  \"bouma\") generally to make discussion easier/clearer. This time it actually came
  to me as a result of reading a passage in Dreyfus's \"Type specimen facsimiles\"
  - so actually maybe this term was in fact used by people before - but I'd never
  seen it before, and it's sorely needed.\r\n\r\n[[Depth]]: the degree of extenderness
  of a typeface. So for example Mrs Eaves is somewhat deep, while ITC Cheltenham is
  very shallow. We often need to say things like \"the x-height is too generous\",
  but that's too clunky. So instead you could say \"it's too shallow\". You could
  even say things like \"the depth is good, but too high\", meaning that the x-height
  is fine but the ascenders are too long compared to the descenders.\r\n\r\nWhat do
  you guys think? Unless somebody convinces me otherwise I think I'm going to start
  using the term right now, probably with a little wiki to refer to. I just hope it
  doesn't take as long as bouma to engrain - that took a lot of work, and I'm not
  font-young any more.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: aaron_carambula
    picture: 109990
  body: "I like the concept, Hrant, So let's hash out the usage and definition. \r\n\r\n<cite>Depth:
    the degree of extenderness of a typeface</cite>\r\nI think that \"extenderness\"
    is a difficult word to define another term by. \r\n\r\nI propose: \"Depth: The
    degree of difference between a typeface's x-height and its extenders.\" \r\n\r\nThen
    we can define \"Deep: A large degree of difference between a typeface's x-height
    and its extenders\" and \"Shallow: A lesser degree of difference between a typeface's
    x-height and its extenders.\"\r\n\r\nMy only trouble with using these terms is
    that \"shallow\" is related to less and \"deep\" is related to more but a \"shallow\"
    typeface would have a <i>greater</i> x-height. I do get the \"deepness\" of mrs
    eaves when I look at it, but when I call it \"deep\" it feels contradictory.\r\n\r\nSo
    then I wonder if the term is necessary, considering that it kind of boils down
    to deep=lesser x-height and shallow=more and depth=relative x-height. Let's see
    more potential usage and then, if necessary, look for other potential analogies. "
  created: '2005-09-26 18:45:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Do you mean depth as a font is extended or condensed (horizontal depth) or
    do you mean Xheight is big or small? I don't mind a term which helps but I would
    hate to see a term which would cause more confusion.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-26 18:47:40'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Interesting. I'm not aware of any other terms that have the same meaning,
    and I agree that a term would be useful.\r\n\r\nIs <em>depth</em> similar to [[color]]
    in that it's a pretty obscure reference? It's not immediately clear what it means,
    whereas x-height and word space are much more descriptive. But, I realize it's
    more difficult to get a concise word if something like depth is describing relationships
    and relative sizes.\r\n\r\nChris (DezCom) has a good point. We're so used to seeing
    \"extended\" in terms of weight or horizintal width."
  created: '2005-09-26 19:37:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hrant, can you give us the full quote(s) from Dreyfus, showing how <em>he</em>
    uses the term? The term depth seems to make a lot of sense when talking about
    descenders, but I don't really understand the other ways in which you are trying
    to use it.
  created: '2005-09-26 20:13:26'
- author:
    name: aaron_carambula
    picture: 109990
  body: "just a clarical note, because i needed to reread his original post to get
    it, Hrant's definition is based on his term \"extende<strong>r</strong>ness\"
    which initially reads as \"extende<strong>d</strong>ness.\" Extenders being the
    ascenders and descenders, of course. \r\n\r\nedit: extender is not his term, rather
    adding the ness is unusual."
  created: '2005-09-26 20:33:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, I first thought he was talking about descenders too, plus I was getting
    sleepy (watching the Brazil race in the background late at night; after lap 5
    it was pretty boring - congrats to the Spaniard though) so I re-read it twice:\r\n\r\n\"\r\nThe
    Types of Baskerville, 1754\r\n\r\nIn England the continuing vogue of Caslon's
    types maintained the\r\ntraditional proportions, and the Great Primer and Pica
    Roman and*\r\nItalic ... are hardly more than tentative departures from the\r\ntraditional
    relations of depth and width. It is an important fact,\r\nhowever that his descenders
    (g, p, q, etc.) are shorter than Caslon's.\r\n\"\r\n\r\n* A good place to use
    an ampersand, I say.\r\n\r\nThat last bit especially -in the context of \"hardly
    more than tentative departures from ...\"- makes me think he didn't mean [just]
    descenders.\r\n\r\nBut anyway, I'm not saying he used the term the way I'm proposing
    we should - it was more of a terminological inspiration.\r\n\r\nMore soon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-26 20:39:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Which is DEEP, the extender or the xheight?  If the extender, why not just
    tall or short extenders?  If xheight, why not large or small xheight? If we want
    to give a ratio to be more precise, typically not something like 3-5-2 (3 being
    ascender, 5 being xheight and 2 being decender. [or 5-5-5 for a \"tall\" script?].
    \  I am borrowing this from calligraphy where heights were in \"pens\"--stroke
    widths.  We could also use UPM.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-26 20:54:42'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "How is bouma clearer term than word shape? \r\n\r\nBouma is a national park
    in Fiji."
  created: '2005-09-26 21:41:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> How is bouma clearer term than word shape?\r\n\r\n1) It's shorter.\r\n2)
    It doesn't have the word \"word\" in it. A bouma is not necessarily a whole word.
    We don't read whole words, nor do we read only individual letters - we read clusters
    of letters, which are sometimes whole words (when short, frequent and distinctive
    enough) and sometimes single letters (when/where the fovea provides total clarity).
    So it's clearer because it's [much] more accurate.\r\n3) It avoids all the old
    (lost) baggage - it's a clean break from all the confusion, misinformation and
    \"customization\" to ones ideological preferences that circulates as valid theory.
    \"Serifs are like train tracks.\" Riiight.\r\n\r\nAnd Fiji works for me too.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-26 21:52:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201CDepth: The degree of difference between a typeface\u2019s x-height
    and its extenders.\u201D\r\n\r\nMore like the <cite>proportion</cite> between
    the various vertical measures.\r\nEssentially between the x-height and the rest
    though, yes.\r\n\r\n> My only trouble with using these terms is that \u201Cshallow\u201D
    is related\r\n> to less and \u201Cdeep\u201D is related to more but a \u201Cshallow\u201D
    typeface would\r\n> have a greater x-height.\r\n\r\nBut it's not about the x-height,
    it's about the <cite>variation</cite>. Like how a gentle water wave is shallow.\r\n\r\n>
    Do you mean depth as a font is extended or condensed (horizontal\r\n> depth) or
    do you mean Xheight is big or small?\r\n\r\nNo, strictly vertical.\r\n\r\n> I
    don\u2019t mind a term which helps but I would hate\r\n> to see a term which would
    cause more confusion.\r\n\r\nBelieve me, I don't like frilly, redundant terminology
    either. Maybe it was too much calling it \"sorely needed\", but it's still better
    than the clunky stuff we have now. As for potential confusion, I think there's
    less than with \"color\", and except for impression depth in letterpress, or maybe
    the \"neck\" of metal sorts (which are outside the context of our particular \"2D\"
    world) I can't think of what else it could be taken for.\r\n\r\n> Is depth similar
    to color in that it\u2019s a pretty obscure reference?\r\n\r\nThat's an interesting
    terminological parallel, in that you sort of have to look beyond the obvious to
    understand them. Well, I'd say right now it's much more obscure than \"color\"!
    :-)  But if you mean it can't ever become non-obscure, I have to agree.\r\n\r\n>
    If we want to give a ratio to be more precise\r\n\r\nI think quantification can
    often impede good discussion.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nA good example of the usefulness
    of \"depth\" can be seen here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15369 _\r\nI would
    have had to write a whole long phrase instead.\r\n\r\nSo you could say for example:\r\n\"Electra
    is too deep to be a good news face.\"\r\n\r\nAnd a type geek could critique Bernhard
    Modern* thus:\r\n\"<strong>Man</strong> that depth is huge and high.\"\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n*
    http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/ef/bernhard-modern-b/reg/charmap.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-26 22:41:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Dreyfus seems to be using depth in the same way that I would use height ('hardly
    more than tentative departures from the traditional relations of height and width'),
    which is why I don't think it is a good term for what you are talking about, which
    is length of extenders relative to x-height. Better not to repurpose existing
    terminology.\r\n\r\nI think what you want needs to include the notion of extent,
    because it is extent beyond the x-height that you are describing. And since this
    is both ascending and descending I don't think 'depth' makes any sense. Personally,
    I think I'll probably stick with describing typefaces as having long or short
    extenders. This seems to me both efficient and precise."
  created: '2005-09-26 23:05:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You really think he had a problem just using \"height\" when he meant it?\r\n\r\n>
    Better not to repurpose existing terminology.\r\n\r\nI agree. But his use of \"depth\"
    there is hardy common.\r\nAlso, using \"short\" and \"long\" to describe both
    ascenders and descenders I think is better than \"tall/short\" for the former
    and \"deep/?\" for the latter.\r\n\r\n> having long or short extenders\r\n\r\nYou
    know, that would indeed be ideal. But too many times I've read descriptions which
    treat the elements like extenders and x-height outside the critical context of
    the em square, sort of like it's still all physical - and I think that's an instinctive
    thing that's hard to overcome. Like this example:\r\n\r\n\"\r\nAn aspect of Baskerville
    type that I intended to retain is that of overall openness and lightness. To achieve
    this while reducing contrast, I have given the lowercase characters a wider proportion.
    In order to avoid increasing the set-width, I reduced the x-height, relative to
    the cap height.\r\n\"\r\nSheesh.\r\n\r\nSo maybe like my point #3 in defence of
    \"bouma\" above,\r\nwe need a clean break? Dunno - maybe not in this case.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-26 23:18:31'
- author:
    name: aaron_carambula
    picture: 109990
  body: 'I really like your wave analogy, and I think it might work. Amplitude seems
    to give the right idea but unfortunately does not have the easy descriptors deep
    and shallow, maybe nautically it''d be choppy and smooth. I do, however, have
    a good understanding of depth in that context. '
  created: '2005-09-26 23:44:58'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Chris, what's UPM?\r\n\r\nI think it's fine to keep using the language of
    (long or short) extenders, but I also like the idea of having a simpler way to
    refer to vertical proportions.\r\n\r\nWhat about something like <em>nad ratios</em>
    (= <em>n:ad ratio</em> or <em>n:a:d ratio</em>, where <em>n</em> = the height
    from baseline of neutral characters; <em>a</em> = the height from baseline of
    characters with ascending components; <em>d</em> = the depth below baseline of
    characters with descending components)\r\n\r\nBernard Modern has a steep n:ad
    ratio. Classical n:a:d ratios are proportionate. How do WAD's legibility series
    fonts come out?"
  created: '2005-09-26 23:49:03'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Hrant, have you gotten to see the essay from the latest Interrobang about
    "A New Typometry"? It proposes terms and quantifiables for such features as xheight/ascender
    ratios. It does go a lot farther than adding a term to existing vocab, though.
  created: '2005-09-27 00:42:49'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "If that is the case, than letter cluster is a better term. It defines what
    it is in normal english, and does not rely on jargon to obsucre its meaning.\r\n\r\nLetter
    cluster --- Yes\r\n\r\nBouma ---- a national park in Fiji\r\n\r\nThank you!"
  created: '2005-09-27 04:15:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's not just a letter cluster. It's the basic unit of reading, that gets
    \"deciphered\" in a certain way, based on semantic context, frequency and distinctiveness.
    Using \"letter cluster\" is more confusing, because it's too vague, too open to
    personal interpretation, and has too much baggage. Also, the concept of bouma
    is relevant to writing systems that that don't even have letters (like Chinese).
    Like any useful term, it's shorthand and an abstraction. Do you call a car a \"combustion
    engine driven civilian transport\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 05:49:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> choppy and smooth\r\n\r\nOoooh. Like a \"choppy depth\" would be if a font's
    x-height varried erratically. So for example John might point out that \"the depth
    of the first Greek types is much choppier than in later designs.\"\r\n\r\nPeter,
    I think \"something-ratio\" would indeed work. I don't know about \"n:a:d\" though
    - sounds like a Matthew Broderick movie...\r\n\r\nCarl, is that Jorge de Buen's
    thing? I've read an earlier paper by him on the subject. Extremely useful work
    - I hope it gets the airtime it deserves. Where can I get a copy of the latest
    Interrobang?, I mean: ?!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-27 07:01:45'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: James, I agree with Hrant. Bouma expresses that the letter cluster forms a
    unity, or 'bounded map'--as I like to say--, of visual particulars at a specific
    grain of vision. A bounded map with an object-like consistency for vision. To
    discuss perceptual processing in reading effectively it is useful to have such
    a term.
  created: '2005-09-27 13:12:11'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: I think the term bouma is just some over-intellectuallized mumbo-jumbo. But
    hey, if it makes you feel smarter, go ahead and use it. The fact that it only
    seems to exist in discussions on on-line communities lead by Hrant may say something
    about the term.
  created: '2005-09-27 13:28:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ene,\r\n\r\nUPM means \"Units Per M\" typically 1000. I meant to use the
    same system Font design software uses to describe xheight ascent and descent.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-27 14:10:38'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "James, in studies of perceptual processing in reading the question of  the
    perceptual unit is fundamental. This is acknowledged in every domain-relevant
    study. Why should a term which brings such discussion to a head be dismissed as
    over-intellectualized mumbo-jumbo.\r\n\r\nIs it that discussions of perceptual
    processing in reading don't interest you, or that you find them hard to sort your
    way through, or that you don't see the connection with what you do?\r\n\r\nI would
    think type-involved people would welcome and encourage exploration of perceptual
    processing in reading at the level at which they are pursue at in the psychological
    and cognitive scientific literature. I don't think I feel smarter, and it's not
    for everyone, but I do think sustained exploration-- with bouma-concept in hand--has
    given me a better understanding of why, among other things, strategic construction
    of letterforms, a well-motivated and consistent contrast scheme, and 'space-craft'--typographical
    obsessions all--matter.\r\n\r\nYou proposed a more accessible term, but it doesn't
    cover the same ground."
  created: '2005-09-27 15:02:27'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "James,\r\n\r\n> I think the term bouma is just some over-intellectuallized
    mumbo-jumbo\r\n\r\nSpot on. If 'bouma' is different from 'word shape' perhaps
    Hrant should submit a better wiki entry for it than \"see word shape\"\r\n\r\nAs
    for the rest of the thread \u2013 Why use the word depth to describe something
    that, in a strict sense, has no depth? It can only serve to confuse, and this
    thread is testament to that.\r\n\r\nTypography has enough obscure terminology
    as it is, adding more for the sake of amusing a small clique of hrantophiles just
    makes the whole subject less accessible to everyone."
  created: '2005-09-28 12:08:45'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"over-intellectuallized mumbo-jumbo\" \r\n\"self-agrandizing rubbish [...]\"
    \r\n\"for the sake of amusing a small clique of hrantophiles\"\r\n\r\nI can only
    see this as a resistance to wanting to discuss the mechanics of perceptual processing
    in reading at an appropriate level of terminological care. In today's usage, 'word
    shape' refers either to 1) envelope structure or 2) the raw pattern of meutral,
    ascending and descending characters. As I tried to say in my Thessaloniki 2004
    presentation, this is too crude a notion of word shape. There is a lot it leaves
    out. And it's ommissions are part of the reason the ascendancy of a parallel letter
    recognition model of word recognition could take hold. (I don't think such a model
    is fully up to the task of providing support for what type involved practitioners
    see as important in type design and typographic practice.) Other candidates, like
    'total word form' or 'distinct word image' are as open as 'word shape' to 'inadequate
    formalizations'.\r\n\r\nEither we need an expanded notion of 'word shape', or
    a new term. For those of us who read Taylor and Taylor's <em>Psychology of Reading</em>
    and Peter Saenger's <em>Space Between Words</em>, 'bouma shape' provided an relevant
    candidate for a new term which could include the internal form of the word contained
    within the envelope and created by a word's unique pattern of positive and negative
    shapes at the level of stems and crossbars , angular components and counters.
    A denser notion of wordshape if you will.\r\n\r\nPerhaps you do not like the term
    'bouma' or 'bouma shape' or you do not see it as a necessary <em>typographical</em>
    term. (If you think of it as 'a bounded map of visual particulars at the internal
    form, both black and white, level' the term becomes transparent to a meaning:
    bouma becomes a truncated form of 'bounded map', as well as a tribute to a pivotal
    psychologist of reading.) So I think, that in discussions of perceptual processing
    in reading it has a use, or at least that what it's introduction into the discussion
    tries to acheive is important."
  created: '2005-09-28 14:50:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For the record, with the initiation of Forrest, I once edited a wiki entry
    for \"bouma\" to a decent state - but then it disappeared. Coupled with the brittle
    reliability of the wiki section, I'd really rather spend the time discussing things.
    Terminology can sometimes get in the way as much as help anyway.\r\n\r\n> has
    no depth?\r\n\r\nThink beyond the plane.\r\n\r\n> for the sake of amusing a small
    clique of hrantophiles\r\n\r\nThere is no court, and I'm not a jester.\r\n\r\n>
    less accessible to everyone.\r\n\r\nNo, only to those who are afraid.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-28 16:11:00'
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "> It\u2019s not just a letter cluster. It\u2019s the basic unit of reading,
    that gets \u201Cdeciphered\u201D in a certain way, based on semantic context,
    frequency and distinctiveness\r\n\r\n> How is bouma clearer term than word shape?\r\n\r\n>1)
    It\u2019s shorter.\r\n2) It doesn\u2019t have the word \u201Cword\u201D in it.
    A bouma is <strong>not necessarily a whole word</strong>. We don\u2019t read whole
    words, nor do we read only individual letters - we read clusters of letters, which
    are sometimes whole words (when short, frequent and distinctive enough) and sometimes
    single letters (when/where the fovea provides total clarity). So it\u2019s clearer
    because it\u2019s [much] more accurate.\r\n\r\n> Bouma expresses that the letter
    cluster forms a unity, or \u2018bounded map\u2019\u2014as I like to say\u2014,
    of visual particulars at a specific grain of vision\r\n\r\n>While the paleographer's
    principle focus has been on the  classification of individual letter forms, the
    student of the history of reading in the medieval West is primarily concerned
    with the evolution  of the word shape, and the letter forms are important only
    to the degree  that they play a role in determining that shape. Thus, the adoption
    of  miniscule, that is, lowercase letters, as a book script is significant  for
    the historian of reading insofar as it contributed, in conjunction  with word
    separation, to giving <strong>each word</strong> a distinct image. Modern psychologists
    call this image the Bouma shape.\r\n\r\nPaul Saenger, Space Between Words. The
    Origins of Silent  Reading 18-19.\r\n\r\n\r\nProblems:\r\n\r\n1) - the question
    of which is the clearer term out of word shape/bouma is irrelevant if those terms
    are describing two different things (as hrant insists they are).\r\n\r\n2) - People's
    definitions of bouma are contradictory, and this coupled with the fact that the
    term itself is not self explanatory doesn't make \"discussion easier/clearer\".\r\n\r\n3)
    A concise and straightforward definition would help make clear the difference
    from 'word shape'. At the moment the most that can be gleaned from this thread
    is that bouma is concerned with groups of shapes that may or may not be whole
    words, it isn't the same as word shape, it includes \"visual particulars\", and
    semantics, frequency and distinctiveness are all involved somehow.\r\n\r\nHow
    much clearer do you need?"
  created: '2005-09-28 17:07:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if those terms are describing two different things\r\n\r\nBut they're not.
    They're trying to descibe the main element of how we recognize visible language
    - they just disagree with what it is. But since we don't read whole words (except
    when they happen to be boumas) the term \"word shape\" is bad.\r\n\r\n> People\u2019s
    definitions of bouma are contradictory\r\n\r\n1) And those for \"word shape\"
    are not?\r\n2) Nobody should expect perfection. Humans -and their languages- are
    fuzzy and dynamic.\r\n3) It's a lot less contradictory than a bunch of other type
    terms that nobody complains about, that almost everybody merrily uses - like \"color\"!\r\n\r\nIf
    you'd like a good idea of what a bouma is, please read my article in TYPO #13.
    It's freely accessible online.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-28 17:26:58'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, your 1) 2) and 3) are dodges. Technical terms should strive for precision
    and and univocality of reference. Neither of these things are fully attainable.
    Precision is never absolute and univocality--meaning one and only one thin--is
    hard to sustain, because a theory is always a construction site. But that's no
    excuse for ambiguity and unsharpness.\r\n\r\nI think it's regretable that there
    isn't greater agreement between myself and Hrant on how to apply the term, given
    it's pedigree. A word is a concrete thing. A bouma is an abstraction. I would
    say our reading of familiar words is bouma-based, that is, based on processing
    them as perceptual units or wholes according to their internal figural compositon
    (their internal figural composition encompassing the black (stems, bowls, angular
    components) and the white (counters, between letter shapes, abscences of closure).
    The significance of this might become apparent if we consider that most theories
    of reading construct  fluent reading as involving some form of internal spelling
    or phonological computation from independantly identified parts (letters) at every
    fixational juncture."
  created: '2005-09-28 18:40:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Precision is never absolute and univocality\r\n\r\nHow is that not a dodge
    if my stuff is?\r\nBut I certainly agree that we need to clarify things.\r\n\r\n>
    there isn\u2019t greater agreement\r\n\r\nIf we disagree on exactly how people
    read, that's one thing. But if we agree enough -specifically here that the unit
    of reading is a cluster of letters- then we can both use \"bouma\" just fine.
    Kinda like you're doing right now!\r\n\r\nBut really, no two people will ever
    agree 100% what a term means (even  if it's technical). You might sometimes approach
    such totality, and that becomes total for practical purposes, but it's still not
    Perfect. Which of course is wonderful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-28 18:50:57'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"How is that not a dodge if my stuff is?\"\r\n\r\nBecause you seemed to
    be arguing for fuzzyness and making an apology for contradictoryness. "
  created: '2005-09-28 19:06:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Does a hyena apologize for his smell?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-28 19:15:52'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: So you were making an apology for contradictoryness?
  created: '2005-09-28 19:36:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...most theories of reading construct fluent reading as involving some
    form of internal spelling or phonological computation from independantly identified
    parts...\"\r\n\r\nA perfect example of this is my misread of Hrant's first post.
    \ I read \"Extendedness\" where he had written \"Extenderness\". My internal dictionary
    came up with the more familiar word to me.  \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-28 19:53:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "An exceptional instance of such... expectedness :-) happened to me on the
    ATypI list a while back: replying to a post by John Hudson, Fiona Ross wrote [something
    like] \"my view is apposite to John's\". I read that as \"opposite\", which has
    the... opposite meaning to \"apposite\"! This, even though: it was in Courier,
    a highly deliberatively-read face; the difference was in the initial letter, the
    most distinctive part of a word/bouma; and I knew that Fiona generally <cite>agrees</cite>
    with John, and has very rarely disagreed with him in public. It took a couple
    of lines to realize something was fishy, and I had to start from the beginning.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-28 20:01:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: " > the term \u201Cword shape\u201D is bad\r\n\r\nI think this is obvious
    too. As a descriptive term it's a kind of endless self refferential ride you can't
    get off of. 'Bouma' is better because like 'typographic color' it is abstract
    enough to take on definition & clarity over time. Even if it is so vague on initail
    contact that it means nothing - like a new word for some novel kind of food on
    the menu - eventually we find out what the word means and sometimes the specificity
    is utterly worthwhile. Once Ramen, Tamale or Yqem may not have meant much to you
    chances are today you know what some of these things are - and I think you would
    not prefer to see them described as noodles, Fried stuffed pepper, or Dessert
    wine. Why? because they are inadequite descriptions. English is a great language
    in part because it takes on new words so readily. You can resist if you want but
    the tide of english is against you.\r\n\r\nComing up with a term we all like for
    the relationship of asceder/descender sizes either together - or for my money
    seprately - or better still one for each & then one for the combination for a
    total of three - is a fine & worthwhile thing to do! I would guess that ready
    acceptance will be easier if the terms suggested are closer to common english
    like 'arm' & 'bowl' & less initially obscure like 'bouma'. But even if they are
    initially opaque, I say let's have them!\r\n\r\nI think that one of the reasons
    that easy desription may be hard & an opaque sounding term inevitable is the relationship
    of the structures to our bodies. We mostly all have arms like on a 'T'. Foot the
    same way. We don't have asceder-like or descender-like shapes unless you count
    our heads or genitals or legs. These shapes are centered or occcur in pairs, and
    our recognition of them requires that the be centered or paired. Asceders & descenders
    don't match well. \r\n\r\nPersonally I don't hate the term depth, but I would
    preffer to retain it exclusively for offset impression where it fits absolutely.
    \  \r\n\r\nThe idea of ratios seems nice but it doesn't lend itself to the use
    that Hrant described. Where you could substitute one of three possible observations
    readily fot x-height in a sentance like this: \"That font has a large 'x-height'
    \". That's the goal we should be shooting for: easy use."
  created: '2005-09-28 22:48:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm, what about \"armature\" instead of \"depth\"? Because -in Latin at
    least- the extenders are like things coming out of a central part (the x-height).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-28 23:01:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Armature is certainly the kind of word that I would like ideally speaking.
    In that it is a part of existing english. And it is really very descriptive!\r\n\r\nThe
    thing about armature is that I associate it with a kind of supporting understructure.
    Like steel in a skyscraper or bones in your body. Armature would be a good term
    to describe the centerline of a font shape. Not seen- but part of a theoretical
    analysis of the understructure of a font. Like at the base of an engraved letter.\r\n\r\nI
    am still trying to make sure I am fully grasping the idea you want the term to
    express or I would maybe suggest a term too. I need to re-read the thread at least
    once more."
  created: '2005-09-28 23:59:53'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Eben, I like your riff on terms a lot. And I like to shave myself with Occam's
    razor. But seriously (and at the risk of irking those who dislike terminological
    play or exploration), something like nad-ratio is no less descriptive and easy
    to use than x-height (when you know the code) than nad-ratio is more puzzling
    than x-height (when you don't, and encounter it for the first time). "This font
    is generous and proportionate in the horizontal plane, has large x-heights for
    it's assigned point sizes, but it has a pinched nad-ratio in the vertical plane,
    making it unsuitable for extended texts because the cue value of the extenders
    is compromised and frequently eclipsed but the salience of the counters." (I'm
    not saying nad-ratio is the term you're after, Hrant, but I do prefer it to depth
    or armature)
  created: '2005-09-29 00:52:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Peter!\r\n\r\nThis may be less succesful but here it goes. \r\n\r\nThe
    key idea being worked up here has everything to do with <strong>relative</strong>
    difference in size of ascenders & descenders to an x height. The differences are
    actually relative in two ways. \r\n\r\nOne - obviously - relative to x height
    (or maybe some other chosen measure too?) \r\n\r\nTwo - As defined by as we like
    to say 'our eye'. This is of course the relative perception of looking good, balanced,
    or whatever terrm we choose. I think this second kind is actually more juicy and
    more relavant.\r\n\r\nBecause in both cases a relative/subjective nature is being
    invoked rather than a rational/measured/precise sense, I suggest we try out the
    term the term 'divergence'. We could also use the term dis/proportional for a
    all the font's relative sizes. Maybe we do already...\r\n\r\nDivergence in plain
    english means separation of one thing from the other - to 'diverge from a path'
    means to leave the path and choose another. It also means departure from a norm;
    or a deviation. It's this second sense that interests me. \r\n\r\nLooking back
    again, the focus of the terms 'deep' and 'shallow' is on depth - just the vertical.
    The idea being described is not really about the vertical but instead relative
    verticality or height - or I would argue that more precisely we are talking about
    a degree of vertical compared to a loose idea of what is 'normal' or perhaps typical.
    Some people are still alergic to 'normal'...\r\n\r\nSo for example we could say
    'I think these ascenders are divergent from the x height' - meaning they are biger
    or smaller than I expected given the x height. Or ' I think this font is divergent
    from it's own x height' meaning that the asceders & descenders are too long or
    short. Or if the term is really accepted then we could just say 'this font is
    divergent'. \r\n\r\nIf that's fine, then by my self imposed standards I aught
    to find a way of of indicating the degree of divergence & maybe a way of indicating
    if it is descender or ascender or both. \r\n\r\nUsing a term like Divergent implies
    that we should be able to say the opposite - that the font ascenders are proportionate
    to it's X height. Hmm That the font 'Conforms'?\r\n\r\nI do still like body references
    in type - they seem more traslatable & intuitive - so for overly tall ascender
    maybe I could say it 'reaches' and for too short we could say it 'crouches'.\r\n\r\nwhaddaya
    think?"
  created: '2005-09-29 06:29:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em...>and I knew that Fiona generally agrees with John...</em>\r\n\r\nAs
    I think I said at the time, it would be more accurate to say that I generally
    agree with Fiona."
  created: '2005-09-29 07:39:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I tend not to use the term bouma very often, but not because I think there
    is anything wrong with the term itself. I think Hrant usually begs the question
    when he uses it, because he assumes that it is phenomenologically central to the
    reading process, while I'm not willing to commit to that. My definition of bouma,
    or bouma shape, would be something like 'a subcategory of letter cluster recognised
    as a unit during reading', which is what I understand Hrant to be saying. So in
    terms of distinguishing this kind of letter cluster from other kinds of letter
    clusters -- distinguished, that is, by its supposed role in reading --, I think
    having a distinct term is useful.\r\n\r\nExactly what the role of such letter
    clusters is in reading remains inconclusive."
  created: '2005-09-29 07:48:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, relativism is in fact exactly why I shy away from John's  -otherwise
    plenty adequate- \"long/short ascenders/descenders\" scheme: many people -even
    seasoned type designers- seem to tend to think of the extenders as coming out
    of an x-height <cite>that's fixed in size</cite>. So for example they might say
    \"Mrs Eaves has long extenders\" instead of \"the ratio of extenders to x-height
    in Mrs Eaves is high\". Considering that everything has to fit in the EM (things
    like Zapfino excepted) the latter is a much more useful way to think about things,
    but it's not \"natural\", and it's cumbersome. I think we can hope to remove at
    least the second of these problems with something like \"depth\" or whatever.\r\n\r\n>
    it would be more accurate to say that I generally agree with Fiona.\r\n\r\nDunno
    - you make more posts!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-29 19:11:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>...you make more posts!</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but she knows a lot more than
    I do. :)"
  created: '2005-09-29 21:33:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, when people talk about a typeface having long extenders, they usually
    mean 'relative to the x-height', and I don't think people do think of the latter
    as being fixed in size. Actually, the ascender height and descender depth are
    much more likely to be fixed in size, relative to the body (types cast small on
    the body, like Perpetua, are unusual). So this is why the observation that a typeface
    has a small x-height is actually more common than the observation that it has
    long extenders.\r\n\r\nThere is another thing to take into account when describing
    a face as having long extenders, and that is cap height. When I think of long
    extenders, I think not only of a relatively small x-height, but of tall ascenders
    that extend well beyond the height of the caps."
  created: '2005-09-29 21:41:49'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> There is another thing to take into account\r\n\r\nThats a good point -
    a very good one. But would you try to get the term to describe this? I guess that
    you could say for instance that it's reaching beyond cap height...\r\n\r\nBut
    my question is in general do you agree that the visual judgement of being too
    this or that is the thing thats important/useful to associate the term with? \r\n\r\nPut
    another way I am suggesting that it's already easy to say 'the asceder goes beyond
    the cap'. It's directly observable, and we have the language already really. But
    Hrant's 'too deep' or my 'reaching' are more of an unprovable point of view, a
    characterization or a judgement call. And we don't have an easy way of saying
    this kind of thing yet."
  created: '2005-09-29 22:04:17'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I am quite comfortable with John's way of addressing questions of description
    in the vertical plane of type. Characterizations like too deep or too shallow
    might be useful, but are indeed judgement calls and we need an axis of reference
    to make them understandable (and quantification to make then testable). That axis
    of reference can either be spelled out in longhand or implied (as John suggests)
    or it can be specified in a cryptic shorthand: n:a(x):d = 1:1:1 / n:a(b):d = 1:2:1
    / n:a(b)+d = 1:3 / n:e(xb or n) = 1:1 (can you guess what 'x', 'e(xb or n)' and
    'b' represent?) \r\n\r\nI doubt if one plain language term will do the job cleanly.
    But we could meningfully say an n:e(xb or n) ratio of 1:1 or thereabouts is too
    shallow or too steep or just right for easy readability at a conventional text
    size and no leading.\r\n\r\nSo if we want quantification, and sometimes we do,
    we will have to talk ratios. Here in longhand and a different order are several
    of the options coded above, plus a bonus one inspired by John's post:\r\n1) neutral
    : ascent (relative to the baseline) + descent (relative to the baseline)\r\n2)
    neutral : ascent (relative to the x-height) : descent (relative to the baseline)\r\n3)
    neutral : cap height : ascent (relative to the baseline)\r\n4) neutral : extender
    extent (beyond baseline for descenders / beyond x-height for ascenders or relative
    to (but not including) the x-height of n) This one only works if the 'a' extent
    and 'd' extent are the same.\r\nThese seem to give the clearest picture of the
    height parameters of the font."
  created: '2005-09-29 23:02:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they usually mean \u2018relative to the x-height\u2019\r\n\r\nSome of them,
    yes. Not all of them. And no matter what people <cite>mean</cite>, somebody -especially
    a \"beginner\"- listening can't read minds so is quite likely to get confused,
    simply because the terminology is confused. Good terminology does help us think
    more clearly - I believe it even ends up guiding thought.\r\n\r\n> this is why
    the observation that a typeface has a small x-height is actually\r\n> more common
    than the observation that it has long extenders.\r\n\r\nIt seems far-fetched that
    this a result of the relativism of the vertical proportions within the EM. It
    seems much more likely that this is due simply to the fact that Latin is very
    strongly x-height-centric, and that's what people see and base expression on.\r\n\r\n>
    cap height\r\n\r\nCovering that would be nice too. But since lc is 95% of text,
    I'd rather work on this first. :-) As you can see, this is hard enough already!\r\n\r\n>
    Characterizations like too deep or too shallow\r\n> might be useful, but are indeed
    judgement calls\r\n\r\nSo is \"long/short ascenders/descenders\" though.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-29 23:16:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It seems far-fetched that this a result of the relativism of the vertical
    proportions within the EM. It seems much more likely that this is due simply to
    the fact that Latin is very strongly x-height-centric, and that\u2019s what people
    see and base expression on.</em>\r\n\r\nBut the reason they see x-heights as relatively
    smaller or larger is precisely because the ascender and descender are normally
    scaled to reach close to the extent of the UPM body height. This is the cause
    of the difference in x-height between on face and another at the same nominal
    point size. If we typically spec'd type size in terms of x-height, so that types
    would have the same x-height at the same nominal size, then I think people would
    be more inclined to talk about long or short extenders. But so long as we are
    sizing type by body height, which most often corresponds quite closely to the
    overall ascender+descender height, relative x-height will be the more obvious
    element of comparison."
  created: '2005-09-30 03:02:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the reason they see x-heights as relatively smaller or larger\r\n\r\nI
    guess I'm not sure they do. I think maybe they only -or generally- see an absolute
    difference, when two fonts with very different x-heights are put next to each
    other (and of course when a given font is set at very different point sizes).
    I think the relativism (or abstraction) which is the important thing for <cite>makers</cite>
    of type (as well as the more sophisticated users of type) gets \"over-ruled\"
    by the absolutism that I suspect laymen prefer - probably because that's what
    human nature prefers. Which is fine for them - but causes us communication problems.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-30 03:09:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The term \"depth\" is still the main issue for me. I think it would make
    more sense if we were to use terms like \"reach\" and \"drop\".  Ascenders reach
    and descenders drop. You could then compare Futura with say Helvetica and say
    Futura has more \"reach\" than Helvetica.  You could also say a cursive face had
    enough reach and drop to allow for flourishes. Screen friendly fonts like Georgia
    and Verdana have very little reach.  The obvious reflection of this is to say
    ample xheight.  This renders the same picture but changes the focus of description
    on the xheight rather than ascender/descenders.  For instance, if I wanted to
    say that Verdana did not have enough drop for a double bowls g, it would be more
    descriptive than to say Verdana had too much xheight for a double bowl g.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-09-30 19:02:36'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "So you could say for example:\r\n\u201CElectra is too deep to be a good news
    face.\u201D\r\n\r\nNot if you had taken the trouble to ascertain that there was
    a short descender version. \r\n\r\nI just don't get it. Everyone knows what the
    terms long/short descenders/ascenders mean. What's the point in changing this?
    You get the feeling that people are more into terminology and less into actually
    looking at the typefaces they're talking about.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry but every modern
    effort made to reform typographic vocabulary from the estimable Bringhurst down
    does nothing but add at best annoying preciousness and at worst utter obfuscation
    to a simple vocabulary that everyone already understands perfectly."
  created: '2005-10-04 21:12:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow, Bill agreeing with John!\r\n\r\nLike I said, I think a new term is needed
    (although not as badly as I first expresses, I admit) only because the current
    ones are in fact <strong>not</strong> properly understood/used (by enough of us).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-05 01:29:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I was re-reading this thread, and I spotted a mistake. I wrote:\r\n\r\n>
    You could even say things like \u201Cthe depth is good, but too high\u201D,\r\n>
    meaning that the x-height is fine but the ascenders are too long\r\n> compared
    to the descenders.\r\n\r\n> And a type geek could critique Bernhard Modern thus:\r\n>
    \u201CMan that depth is huge and high.\u201D\r\n\r\nIn both cases the \"high\"
    should in fact be \"low\", sorry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-30 23:56:39'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: The term "depth" implies a negative value to me. And what if the ascenders
    are tall and the descenders short, what is the depth then? What are your thoughts
    on typefaces with those characteristics anyway?
  created: '2010-01-03 21:58:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> what if the ascenders are tall and the\r\n> descenders short, what is the
    depth then?\r\n\r\nWell, I was just going to say \"that means the depth is low\"
    but then I realized that makes it all ambiguous. :-/  So I don't know about using
    \"depth\" to talk about the location of the baseline* after all, but it can certainly
    be used to discuss the relative size of the x-height compared to the extenders.\r\n\r\n*
    We could use \"sits high\" and \"sits low\".\r\n\r\n> What are your thoughts on
    typefaces with those characteristics anyway?\r\n\r\nGood question. I would say
    things like:\r\n- A typeface that sits too high is wasting the readability potential
    of the ascender space, while a typeface that sits too low results in ungainly
    descenders.\r\n- The smaller the point size the more a typeface should sit low.\r\n-
    The smaller the text point size the more shallow (low depth) it should be; for
    display setting however it's almost entirely an aesthetic decision.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-04 00:02:17'
- author:
    name: bendy
    picture: 112931
  body: "Hrant, I am beginning to see how your views translate into how well a font
    works, interestingly. It seems you've helped me see relationships and variables
    that hitherto I've not been aware of. So whether you call it 'depth' or 'small
    x-height' it's a useful thing to discuss. \r\n\r\nI like \"sits high\" and \"sits
    low\" to express the relative position of the x-height within the extender height.\r\n\r\nDo
    you have any references for your three points above, or are they derived from
    your direct experience? (Not that I would necessarily trust formulae and hypotheses
    over direct experience.)"
  created: '2010-01-04 00:54:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I would say my views have coalesced over the past ~11 years via an interplay
    between reading theory and observation. Listening, thinking (often out-loud*)
    and reverse-engineering. That said, I have to believe that what I've \"discovered\"
    so far is still the low-hanging fruit; the really luscious stuff is not yet within
    my reach, and may never be.\r\n\r\n* Which is really useful, since people react
    to false claims much more often than things they agree with. Going out on a limb
    is the only way to see what the branch is really made of.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-04 02:03:14'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I am a bit confused by the initial post.\r\n\r\nCurrently, when we say a
    font has a \"small x-height\" or a \"large x-height\", we are usually comparing
    the x-height to the ascender to baseline distance, <em>or</em> to the cap height.
    Usually, we do not have to make this distinction precisely, since in nearly all
    conventional typefaces, ascender height either equals cap height, or is only slightly
    greater.\r\n\r\nFor historical reasons, due to the parameters of newspaper legibility
    faces, and the foundry convention of lining faces to a common baseline to the
    extent possible, descender length tends to be referred to separately. This also
    makes sense because descenders are relatively rare, and thus short descenders
    can be compensated for by leading with almost the same visual result.\r\n\r\nGiven
    that, a term for x-height relative to the ascender-to-descender distance would
    seem to be likely to create confusion, as it would tend to equate faces with different
    visual impact.\r\n\r\nOf course, the faces with really stubby descenders also
    have a huge x-height in relation to cap height, and really low x-height faces
    have long descenders, so the cases in which this could cause confusion are limited."
  created: '2010-01-04 04:29:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We discussed this at length (and with some acrimony) recently, but I will
    quickly reiterate my stance: the combination of ascenders and descenders (and
    really just the former by itself) is far more important than cap height.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    the relationship between cap and ascender heights is far less predictable these
    days than historically.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-04 04:45:38'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "<cite> > Of course, the faces with really stubby descenders also have a huge
    x-height in relation to cap height, and really low x-height faces have long descenders,
    </cite>\r\n\r\nThere are, of course, plenty of exceptions.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bernhard-Candide_3603.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Egmont_4739.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/KochAntiqua_4119.png]"
  created: '2010-01-04 14:06:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good examples. Perhaps the most prominent one would be Berling, which was
    mainstream enough to be used as the MS Reader's default.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-01-04 16:07:23'
date: '2005-09-26 17:37:42'
node_type: forum
title: New Type Term

---
