---
author:
  name: enne_son
  picture: 109487
body: "How many of you think my attempt to ground the term <em>[[bouma]]</em> or <em>bouma
  shape</em> in <em>bounded map</em> has merit? <!--break-->The derivation is based
  on making the expression <em>bounded map</em> one word and then dropping the <em>nded</em>
  of <em>bounded</em> and the <em>p </em>of <em>map</em>.\r\n\r\nThe idea for the
  derivation was sparked years ago (in a series of early exchanges with Hrant) by
  encounters with the idea of <em>saliency maps</em> in the perceptual processing
  literature. The visual cortex is thought to compile <em>saliency maps</em> of stimulus
  material. So that is what motivated the use of <em>map</em>. The use of <em>bounded</em>
  is perhaps self-explanatory: word-like clusters of letters are bounded by white
  space (though the white <em>in</em> the word is part of the map).\r\n\r\nThe use
  of <em>bouma</em> that original sparked my interest is contained in Hrant's comment
  on TYPO_L (early 1999): \"According to my lectures in cognitive science, the combined
  outer *and* inner outlines (but in blurry, para-foveal form) of a word is what we
  rely on the most; and that\u2019s in fact the bouma.\"\r\n\r\nFor Insup Taylor and
  M. Martin Taylor (Hrant's source), who introduced the term <em>bouma shape</em>
  in 1983, the term refers principally to a string of numerical coefficients that
  code distinctiveness when several (though perhaps not enough for my liking) internal
  measures (like 'the expressedness of the body') beyond the raw pattern of neutral,
  ascending and descending characters are taken into account.\r\n\r\nPeter Saenger
  appropriated the term from Insup Taylor and M. Martin Taylor to give substance to
  a notion of \"each word a distinct image\". The implication being: that's what we
  rely on. This is a notion consistent with Gerrit Noordzij's views on the history
  of writing.\r\n\r\nHrant's \"but in blurry, parafoveal form\" probably has its source
  in Taylor and Taylor's statement that \"[t]ext could in principle, be read when
  the letters are too small, blurred, or distant to be consistently identified correctly,
  provided their gross features could be seen. These are the conditions that prevail
  during parafoveal viewing of words to be foveated at the next or the second following
  fixation.\" (But experiments with the effects of 'crowding' (read: visual interference)
  <em>in the parafovea</em> suggest that if these 'gross features' are the internal
  features (like 'the expressedness of the body') that underwrite distinctiveness,
  they can not in fact be 'seen'. This, incidentally, may be what is behind Hrant's
  more recent emphasis on 'envelope distinctiveness'(Typo#13) (at the expense of *and*
  (blurry) 'inner outlines') to preserve a notion of recognition in the parafovea)\r\n\r\nI
  suggested in another post that the term <em>bouma</em> is a fitting tribute to a
  key figure, Herman Bouma. Though Herman Bouma and his associate at the Institute
  for Perception Research in Eindhoven, The Netherlands, Don Bouwhuis, ended up pursuing
  (with important caveats!) a letter based approach to visual word recognition (involving--like
  Kevin Larson's model--a perceptual stage and a decisional stage), it was Herman
  Bouma who said (1973) \"word recognition is an event much more complicated than
  just the combining of a number of recognized consecutive letters.\" And it was Herman
  Bouma who also first sensed the contribution of 'visual interference' to the process.
  (Visual interference is crucial to the binding implied in <em>bounded</em>).\r\n\r\nSo
  the question is: does my derivation have merit? The rest is to provide some context."
comments:
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think you have succeeded beyond my imagination in describing how & why
    the term has come to us. That's great.\r\n\r\nThe only nit I would pick (maybe)
    is with the term 'bounded'. And only because unlike the rest of your post it isn't
    something that seems clear right away. When I read bounded map I am thinking about
    ideas like - demarcated by white, or wrapped, or something similar - but the idea
    of a 'border' is what comes up for me. Borders are intended to be precise even
    if reality doesn't match.\r\n\r\nMaybe the phrase \u201Cbut in blurry, parafoveal
    form\u201D is where answer to my quibble lies. I think that the bounded isn't
    meant so much as a sharp but rather a soft definition. If that's the case then
    maybe a term that is softer than bounded could be used to suggest this softness.
    Maybe my ideas about the bound bounded emphasize precision more than is warrented.
    Reading some definitions I get mathematically bound vs unbound meaning finite/defined
    vs. infinite/undefined , there is the idea of limit in law, & the more old style
    venacular speech 'Our joy knew no bounds' & 'Your remarks exceed the bounds of
    reason'. And last the bounded meaning to bind or restrict. All of these cases
    seem to point more to precision or to a desire for precision than I think you
    mean. I can imagine a counter arguement being made... What do you think?\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-29 22:19:42'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Thanks Eben, I suppose all I would really want <em>bounded</em> to call to
    mind is: delimited, having some definite extent in spatial terms, demarcated by
    background or white, which, judging from your reply it does. It doesn't concern
    me that the boundary might be thought of as well-defined or sharp, rather than
    blurry or hazy or fuzzy, because in foveal vision the demarcation between foreground
    and background, information and noise (a paper stock with a 'tooth' has noise--nice
    noise), appears distinct <em>but isn't 'thematized'</em>--it doesn't become a
    feature, so to speak, subject to devoted processing routines. I don't believe
    the boundary or 'envelope structure' is separately thematized (or separately responded
    to as such) in parafoveal vision either, though I do believe definite information
    is captured there about extent (and coarse but accurate information about internal
    composition as well--too coarse to spark visual wordform resolution and a sense
    of perceptual connectedness with the words on paper, but accurate nonetheless.)\r\n\r\nIt
    might help you to know that one area where I disagree with Hrant is that the wholistic
    response bias isn't shattered in foveation such that processing becomes <em>letter</em>
    recognitional (or at best bi- or trigram-recognitional) rather than remaining
    fully wordform resolutional. Parafoveal vision, meanwhile, is unable to acheive
    wordform resolutional closure, or so I've come to think.\r\n\r\nSo because it
    still evokes many of the things I think it should (also indirectly the idea of
    cross-letter-cluster binding), and because some of the things I think it shouldn't
    (like 'bordered', or 'boundaried') are probably knocked out by it's association
    with (information) <em>map</em>, and because it provides a nice anchor for the
    <em>bou</em> of <em>bouma</em>, I guess I feel inclined to keep it, at least as
    a mnemonic--something to remember the meaning of the term by.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-30 01:48:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, I'm happy <cite>somebody</cite> is keeping track of this stuff! :-)
    I myself am lousy at housekeeping (at least when it comes to interesting things).\r\n\r\nFrankly
    though, terminological derivation has always seemed too \"academic\" to me. I
    don't mind people using my preferred derivations or making up their own or anything
    in between - as long as when we actually use the term enough of us can understand
    it sufficiently well. Your \"bounded map\" thing can work - it reminds me of \"pixel\"
    being (supposedly) derived from \"picture element\" - although I've heard challenges
    to that.\r\n\r\nEben I think has a point about the exactitude of \"bounded map\"
    when talking about what a bouma really is. But, as above, I don't mind, simply
    because the definitions of \"bounded\" and \"map\" are nicely fuzzy of themselves!\r\n\r\nI
    don't mean to sound dismissive - this stuff <cite>is</cite> interesting to me,\r\notherwise
    I wouldn't have lasted these ~7 years studying it!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-30 03:45:47'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "It's not so much derivation as <em>grounding</em> that I'm after, <em>anchorage</em>.
    I don't mean to be cute, but such grounding can discourage or constrain slipshod
    extensions or referential drift (besides making the term more transparent to a
    meaning / less opaque). And the kind of fuzziness <em>bounded map</em> contains
    still gives us room to move. \r\n\r\nI wouldn't say this if I didn't think the
    susceptibility to drift is real."
  created: '2005-09-30 04:40:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Having not investigated these thing except by proxy I can only refer back
    to what you both say you are getting at & look for holes if I see any. \r\n\r\nPeter,
    when you remind us that bouma is a term that is relevant both when text is in
    focus & when it is just starting to be perceived (before focus actually occurs)
    - I find my reservations about using the term 'bounded' retreat. This is because
    at some point it really is bounded in a fairly tight, crisp & precise way. Tight
    enough in my view to justify 'bounded'. You also say, \"delimited, having some
    definite extent in spatial terms\" and even if it's splitting hairs I would have
    to say that yes; even when out of focus, text has some sort of range of blur that
    is limited. \r\n\r\nHrant, I agree with you about 'map' & 'bounded' in reality
    or RL as the scifi folks say - but I am not so sure about the linguistic intent.
    There I think the intent, albeit fruitless at some level, is to nail things down
    & make them certain.\r\n\r\nPeter, you mean 'Drift' as in obscuration as opposed
    to alteration, or enhancement - no? \r\n\r\nCertainly most english words drift
    a great deal over time if all you mean by drift is change. Whether the change
    is good in any of these cases depends where you stand. \r\n\r\nAlso while I do
    think it's worthwhile to try to bring this word child up right for now; you must
    realize that it is going to have go out on it's own one day and get it's own apartment
    etc. \r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2005-09-30 05:52:21'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"it\u2019s worthwhile to try to bring this word child up right for now [but]
    you must realize that it is going to have [to] go out on it\u2019s own one day
    and get it\u2019s own apartment etc.\"\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n[referential drift]\r\nI
    guess I mean alteration to the point where it becomes difficult to connect a current
    use with the original intent. The term's meaning becomes diffuse, rather than
    more clearly defined. I've though Hrant's stretching of the his use of the term
    to include single letters in focal vision might suffer from that. The original
    intent seemed to be to provide a term for a multiplex unit with an internal and
    external figural distinctiveness or uniqueness subject to processing by our vision-ware
    as one thing.\r\n\r\n\"the intent [...] is to nail things down\"\r\nBut different
    people will feel inclined to nail it down differently and the term needs enough
    'surface' for that, without the term loosing its basic shape. For example Peter
    Saenger will nail <em>bouma shape</em> down one way in <em>Space Between Words</em>
    and Insup Taylor and M. Martin Taylor will nail it down a different way in their
    <em>Psychology of Reading</em> and their nailing it down might be sufficient to
    suit the needs of their subject matter and make their claims appear compelling,
    while still being mutually compatible. When I want to ask questions about receptive_field
    stimulus_information_integration behaviour within the visual cortex, I may feel
    the need to nail it down differently again. These ways needn't conflict."
  created: '2005-09-30 19:39:47'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Peter, I see your point, but can you really prevent this except by deliberate
    negotiation? Maybe that's wht you are doing here.... I see. And certainly I can
    see some reason to try to be clear about the terms definition or it's utility
    goes away. \r\n\r\nThe question that comes up next is can you craft both a definition
    that you & Peter Saenger, M. Martin Taylor etc can agree on and which is going
    to to be specific to your professional concerns and at the same time create a
    sort of budget model definition useful to type designers. I for example might
    be willing to wade into the field of jargon ( that is legitimately neccesary to
    persue your work - that was not a crit at all! ) to attempt to understand what
    you mean - but most folks who design type are going to want a sort of workhorse
    definition. It seems to me that there is room for both. After all what a chemist
    means by sugar & what I mean by sugar when i go to the grocery store do overlap
    to a significant degree but the grocery store definition cannot be said to be
    nearly as precise."
  created: '2005-09-30 21:53:39'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"can you really prevent this except by deliberate negotiation\"\r\n\"can
    you craft both a definition that you & Peter Saenger, M. Martin Taylor etc can
    agree on and which is going to to be specific to your professional concerns and
    at the same time create a sort of budget model definition useful to type designers\"\r\n\r\nProbably
    not. The most I can ask is that Peter Saenger, Hrant, and the Taylor's say: I
    see what you're doing and why, and it makes good sense to me. Now this is how
    what you say relates to how I use it. \r\n\r\nFor normal everyday use I could
    be happy for now with:\r\n<strong>bouma</strong>: \r\n[from <strong>bouma shape</strong>]\r\nDefinition:
    \r\nA configured whole or <em>bounded map</em> of interdependant internal figural
    components.\r\nExplanation: \r\nType design, typography and our reading-ware treat
    words in text visually as bounded maps of <em>visual (con)figural</em> 'stuff'
    to be process as a whole, not first and foremost linguistically as <em>letters
    with assigned orthographic identities arranged in an agreed-to order</em> to be
    processed bit by bit. \"The natural form of reading is not by spelling or syllabification,
    but by grasping word wholes, i.e., word forms or configurations, constituting
    the units of perception in reading.\" \r\nMotivation: \r\nThe reason to push beyond
    terms like word <em>wholes</em> or <em>forms</em> to expressions like 'bounded
    maps of figural stuff' is to give these terms substance and sharpness, a greater
    specificity or definition. And to forestall inadequate formalizations of them
    in empirical testing situations.\r\nPractical import: \r\nAmong other things,
    this makes distinctiveness of the figural map, bouma distinctiveness, important
    for efficient processing, or readability. "
  created: '2005-09-30 23:42:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sounds good. Except the reliance on \"word\", which is misleading. Words
    stand out, because of the power of the blank space, but they're just a special
    case of a broader scheme.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-09-30 23:59:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'If, as you seem to be suggesting Peter, bouma is simply a more rigorous and
    sharply defined alternative for ''word wholes or forms'', then I think you and
    Hrant, and probably you and I, are disagreeing about what the term implies. And
    when you explain your derivation in this way, I''m less comfortable with it than
    I was previously. Words are bounded in an obvious way by the white space between
    them (at least in our writing system; not, I should note, in all writing systems).
    And I agree that ''grasping word wholes'' is the central act of reading: words
    are what we are always trying to recognise. But I have been understanding Hrant''s
    use of bouma as part of a particular model of word recognition -- one that I am
    not convinced by --, not as a any kind of synonym for a word whole. It seems to
    me that the most interesting thing about the bouma is that it may often not be
    identical to a word whole, but may be a recognised sub-word letter cluster. In
    this case, the notion of boundedness is less clear, although still relevant. Unlike
    the whole word shape which is visually bounded in our writing system, the implication
    of bouma recognition is that boundedness is internal, cognitive, presumably a
    function of pattern familiarity. In order to be able to recognise sub-word letter
    clusters, we would need to be able to discreetly separate them from neighbouring
    letters or letter clusters, i.e. imposing boundaries that do not exist visually
    on the page.'
  created: '2005-10-01 02:53:40'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, I think you are right in sensing that for me <em>bouma</em> is simply
    a more rigorous and sharply defined alternative for \u2018word wholes or forms'
    and you are right in sensing that Hrant and I, and probably you and I, disagree
    about the specifics of what the term implies, or should imply. But we might still
    not differ fundamentally about how reading works. \r\n\r\nIn conformity with some
    of the the literature on reading and object perception, I would want to use the
    term, <em>tokeniztion</em> for what Hrant seems to be alluding to with his \"broader
    scheme\" and you spell out with \"recognised sub-word letter cluster.\" <em>Tokeniztion</em>:
    the identification of meaning-bearing complexes in a character string where they
    are not physically marked--my gloss on an existing definition. And as you suggest
    pattern familiarity is key.\r\n\r\nSo I would need to add something like this
    to my explanation: \r\nThe functional unit of perception in skilled fluent silent
    reading is a bounded map. Tokenization within the bounded map can occur. In unseparated
    text tokenization has to occur. In both instances tokenization imposes it's own
    boundaries. In separated texts, word spaces make a provisional, convention-based
    tokenization of the line of text available to parafoveal vision.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-01 03:50:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The reason it's boumas and not whole words is that letter-cluster frequency
    & distinctiveness, and even semantic context do allow us to pick out smaller-than-word
    wholes out of long words - in fact we prefer to, because it's generally more efficient.
    This is for example why \"readjust\" is so hard to read.\r\n\r\n> we might still
    not differ fundamentally about how reading works.\r\n\r\nIf so, I'd love to hear
    John affirm\r\nthat he doesn't think Kevin's angle\r\ncan be the Real Deal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-01 03:59:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Sorry, I think parallel letter recognition could well be ''the real deal'',
    but this is not the same as it being the full deal. I still think the evidence
    for parallel letter recognition as the primary process in reading is quite persuasive:
    certainly persuasive enough not be be discounted. And -- you''ll hate this --
    we shouldn''t discount the possibility that bouma recognition itself involves
    some parallel letter recognition. This is not something that has been examined,
    and it seems to me that if bouma recognition is important to word recognition,
    as you believe, you have solved the mechanics of word recognition by introducing
    the problem of the mechanics of bouma recognition. :)'
  created: '2005-10-01 06:14:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Real\", \"full\", whatever, I think you need to make explicit that you
    don't\r\nbelieve Kevin (that the PL model truly explains the mechanics of reading).\r\n\r\n>
    we shouldn\u2019t discount the possibility that bouma recognition\r\n> itself
    involves some parallel letter recognition.\r\n\r\nI don't get this, at least not
    the way I use \"bouma\". The main question really is, do we sometimes recognize
    certain clusters of letters as wholes in some cases, or do we always build everything
    from individual letters? Recognizing a bouma precludes worrying about its component
    letters - unless you regress to a bouma that seems to have been misread, and you
    foveate on the cluster to disambiguate it. The whole point of relying on boumas
    is speed - so there's no point bothering with the component letters of a bouma
    that's been \"confidently\" deciphered.\r\n\r\n> you have solved the mechanics
    of word recognition by introducing\r\n> the problem of the mechanics of bouma
    recognition.\r\n\r\nWord recognition, the way I use the term (in the semantic
    sphere) is on a higher cognitive level than bouma/letter decipherment. In fact
    it's on a level beyond the context of type design or typography. The important/interesting
    thing for us is how the shapes get decoded (before they get to the semantic level)
    and the bouma model validates a bunch of things (like serifs) that the PL model
    does not. The two are fundamentally different.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-01 06:29:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the bouma model validates a bunch of things (like serifs) that the PL model
    does not\r\n\r\nI don't see why serifs can't be an advantage on the parallel processing
    model. To me they: 1. help maintain even color when letters are spaced widely
    enough for quick and easy letter recognition; 2. mark the baseline so the eye
    can follow the line more easily--thus requiring less leading than sans faces;
    3. Help differentiate characters, also facilitating quick recognition.  \r\n\r\nAll
    three of these qualities, if I am right about their benefits, would apply within
    the parallel processing model, I would think. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-01 13:22:05'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, when I said \"I think you are right in sensing that for me bouma is
    simply a more rigorous and sharply defined alternative for \u2018word wholes or
    forms\u2019,\" I probably should have said: actually <em>bounded map</em> makes
    a statement about what for vision and the visual cortex a word whole in separated
    text is. It's a proposal for how we might want to think about 'whole' or 'form'
    or 'shape', when it comes to the visible word (if we want to sort out, without
    fear of ambiguity how visual wordform resolution or recognition works.)\r\n\r\nHrant,
    bounded map encodings form, and it is the encodings that strict visual wordform
    resolution <em>and tokenization</em> rely on. This is what it means, in my scheme,
    to say reading is bouma based. A better counter to my introduction of <em>tokenization</em>
    might have been: \"the reason it\u2019s boumas and not tokenization is [...]\"\r\n\r\nIt's
    a question of which way of speaking can move us forward more effectively. Time
    will tell.\r\n\r\nJohn, I've tried to claim that what happens in the visual cortex
    happens massively in parallel, but that the mediating agents for visual wordform
    resolution are not specifically letter wholes but the totality of stems, cross
    bars, counters--as you say--in their pattern.  In learning to read, encodings
    of words form that are indifferent to or cut across molarities (at the glyph level)
    and polarities (of black and white). (This is why it seems important to me to
    say the bounded whole is (for the visual cortex) a map of figural components at
    the role_architectural_particular and role_architecturally_evoked_form level,
    the stem / crossbar / counters / closure level.) There are persuasive arguments
    for this that can accommodate the empirical test results that make parallel letter
    recognition seem persuasive. But persuasive for one might not be persuasive for
    another. For another, what seems like a persuasive consideration to the one, might
    seem like special pleading.\r\n\r\nA bouma-concept is an invitation to see the
    word-whole under a certain aspect. Seeing it under this aspect puts our notion
    of 'whole' or 'form' inconformity with what happens in perceptual processing.
    It also provides a fertile basis for channelling our efforts in type design and
    placing type."
  created: '2005-10-01 14:04:37'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Also, John, 'the mechanics [I want to say: 'perceptual processing mechanics']
    of bouma recognition', or as I like to say 'visual wordform resolution' is the
    heart of the matter from a typographical point of view. And to stick with the
    terminological question, an understanding of 'word wholes' as <em>bounded maps</em>
    provides opportunities for a specification of 'wholes' fit for empirical testing
    at a <em>perceptual mechanics</em> level.\r\n\r\nA further note about tokenization:\r\nTokenization
    to a letter or 'glyph-molar' level happens only in 1) learning to read, 2) letter-by-letter
    reading and 3) dechiperment of unfamiliar words. In separated text a single letter
    is a whole word. This is an argument against parallel letter recognition as the
    primary mechanism in word recognition. We can call it 'the tokenization argument'.\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    your \"when letters <em>are spaced widely enough</em> for quick and easy letter
    recognition (my empahsis)\" begs the question <em>when</em> that is. And is it
    different for quick and easy visual wordform (read: bouma) resolution, as I am
    inclined to believe? That is, is it wider than the currently accepted norm, which
    craft knowledge claims optimizes readability? And if it is wider than the currently
    accepted norm will it be possible to maintain, even with the help of serifs, an
    even colour or a vibrant texture? "
  created: '2005-10-01 15:24:38'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Further, I think serifs promote binding, and when they are abscent, there
    are greater pressures on spacing.
  created: '2005-10-01 15:50:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I made an update to the inaugural post in this thread. It now reads: \"(But
    experiments with the effects of 'crowding' (read: visual interference) <em>in
    the parafovea</em> suggest that if these 'gross features' are the internal features
    (like 'the expressedness of the body') that underwrite distinctiveness, they can
    not in fact be 'seen'.)\"\r\n\r\nOriginally it did not contain the words 'the
    effects of' and <em>in the parafovea</em>"
  created: '2005-10-01 17:10:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: When & if the technical details are worked out I still want to encourage a
    workhorse definition. Actually, a workhorse definition might be composed or distilled
    from of those details that everyone already agrees on <strong> first </strong>.
  created: '2005-10-01 17:56:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I think you need to make explicit that you don\u2019t believe Kevin</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    I believe him at least as much as I believe you. Sorry, Hrant, but I am not discounting
    or disbelieving any reasonable explanation of the reading process at this stage
    because I simply don't think we have enough solid knowledge, only conjectures.
    The parallel letter recognition model happens to be supported by a number of empirical
    studies, and also conforms to what we know about how the brain seems to handle
    other processes, so I certainly am not going to say that I don't believe it. I'm
    not convinced that it explains everything about the mixture of speed and accuracy
    of mature reading, but on the other hand it is obviously a sufficient explanation
    during the time we are learning to read. This suggests to me that parallel letter
    recognition might be <em>the primary reading mechanism</em>, and anything else
    such as bouma tokenisation and recognition is a developed extension that improves
    reading speed and accuracy but is not essential to the basic cognitive operation.
    It is pretty obvious that we can read without relying in any way on bouma recognition;
    what is of interest is the degree to which bouma recognition might contribute
    to reading <em>well.</em>"
  created: '2005-10-01 18:36:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">William, your \u201Cwhen letters are spaced widely enough for quick and
    easy letter recognition (my empahsis)\u201D begs the question when that is.\r\n\r\nMy
    comment raises your question, but it does not beg it. Question-begging is the
    fallacy of simply reasserting the issue under debate. I was not here asserting
    that we read or don't read using 'boumas'--the issue addressed by Hrant--and so
    was not committing the fallacy.\r\n\r\nI was arguing is that serifs are plausibly
    of value to the reader under the parallel processing models as well as bouma theories.
    So the values of serifs is not, to my thinking, a crucial test between competing
    theories. \r\n\r\nIf the theories were precise enough to specify optimal spacing
    - and that would be fabulous if they were - then maybe a crucial test could be
    done. \r\n\r\nI have hunches about optimal spacing, but not any well formed theory.
    \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-10-01 18:36:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t get this, at least not the way I use \u201Cbouma\u201D.
    The main question really is, do we sometimes recognize certain clusters of letters
    as wholes in some cases, or do we always build everything from individual letters?</em>\r\n\r\nMy
    point is that we don't have a tested model of bouma recognition. To say 'we sometimes
    recognise certain clusters of letters as wholes' is begging the question: you
    are making assumptions about <em>how</em> we recognise those clusters. Let's say
    we have a letter cluster 'bed' and a letter cluster 'bad'. We have two possibilities
    for recognition, both entirely reliant upon distinguishing the middle letter of
    the cluster, since that is the only difference between them:\r\n\r\n1) we recognise
    the cluster as a whole, taking into account the impact on the appearance of the
    whole of the middle letter.\r\n\r\n2) we recognise the cluster by recognising
    the individual letters that make it up, essentially applying the parallel letter
    recognition model to sub-word clusters in the same way as we do to whole words.\r\n\r\nIn
    either case, I reckon a huge amount of bouma recognition rides on context if we're
    talking about cues in the parafovea. I don't think there is sufficient distinction
    between bed and bad to be recognised with certainty in the parafovea, so we make
    a best guess based on context which is either confirmed by subsequent fixation
    content (in which case we proceed) or is not (in which case we regress).\r\n\r\nI
    know you won't like the second option because you have been happily assuming the
    first, but hopefully you see that it is a reasonable possibility and something
    that should not be discounted without testing."
  created: '2005-10-01 18:52:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Peter: <em>I\u2019ve tried to claim that what happens in the visual cortex
    happens massively in parallel, but that the mediating agents for visual wordform
    resolution are not specifically letter wholes but the totality of stems, cross
    bars, counters\u2014as you say\u2014in their pattern.</em>\r\n\r\nI like this
    explanation a lot. But I don't sign up to ideas just because I like them :)\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me pretty evident that you, Hrant and I do not, in fact, 'agree fundamentally
    about how reading works'. There is some commonality, but still a lot of disagreement.
    For my own part, I don't have a commitment to any particular explanation, and
    my interest is in keeping the options on the table and exposing unconsidered possibilities
    as they occur to me from reading what you and Hrant write."
  created: '2005-10-01 19:01:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The passage John quotes is also the one that enables me for the first time
    to understand your theory clearly, Peter.\r\n\r\nIf I get it right, then, after
    learning the individual letters that make up a word like 'thought' (not phonetic),
    we mentally go from the pattern of bowls and counters and stems to meaning, without
    one of the intermediate steps being an identification of individual letters, and
    assembly into words. Do I understand you correctly?\r\n\r\nI still think that
    the ease of reading scrambled letters militates against your view, and for the
    importance identifying letters as part of the cognitive process. \r\n\r\nBy the
    way, even in Chinese while there are twenty thousand some characters, there are
    something like 200 'radicals' that compose the characters, and far fewer, I believe,
    in most characters. So even in reading these symbols it is likely, I suspect,
    that an 'assembly process' is going on.    \r\n\r\nAs I have said, it would be
    exciting if you could derive some testable views on spacing or letter forms. Then
    whether you are right or wrong it would stimulate an advance to test your views. "
  created: '2005-10-01 21:17:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "William, in your next to last post, you are right, I should indeed have said
    that the comment 'raises the question'. My 'begs the question' was slipshod.\r\n\r\nYou
    also say: \"[i]f the theories were precise enough to specify optimal spacing [...]
    then maybe a crucial test could be done.\" \r\nI think my theory is precise enough
    to specify an optimal spacing, and that it has to do with stems and the vertical
    components of bowls--and maybe the means of angular components--, hovering about
    a rhythmic mean, but not hovering too tightly. This is the basis of my interest
    in fourier transforms. The idea is that, when the vertical components on either
    side of a letter like an o or an n are in synchronicity with the vertical components
    of the adjacent letter on either side, the pattern of the whole supersedes the
    molarity of the parts and makes resolving them effortful. \r\nThis leaves the
    question of a critical test. I think it is in principle testable, but I don't
    have a handle on just how to structure it. There is some existing research that
    seems to come close, for example: <em>Effects of alphabeticality, practice and
    type of instruction on reading an artificial script: An fMRI study</em>, by Tali
    Bitan, David Manor, Istvan A. Morocz, Avi Karni (available on line at http://splweb.bwh.harvard.edu:8000/pages/papers/morocz/cogn_brain_res.Bitan2005.pdf).
    \r\nThe scrambled text phenomenon that you mention in your last post before this
    reply raises interesting questions. How easy is reading scrambled text really?
    It seems to require some work, or at least some introduction to the underlying
    scramble protocol, before becoming manageable. How is reading speed effected?
    What pattern of eye movements become apparent, compared to those used in immersive
    reading of normal text? How quickly does fatigue set in? Is there a greater reliance
    on tokenization of still intact criterial word parts?\r\n\r\nAlso in your last
    post before this reply: your summary indicates to me you got what I mean, though
    I'd want to clarify what is meant by 'mentally'. I'd want to argue that, through
    learning, sense becomes neurally encapsulated with the bounded map or patterned
    whole. This is why with visual wordform resolution, <em>a perceptual process</em>,
    the connection with 'sense' is immediate.\r\n\r\nJohn, I'm hesitant to go into
    the bed / bad thing, because I think how we conceive parafoveal preview and the
    contribution of semantic context has to be turned on its head. I've tried to specify
    just how in a set of questions to Hrant and Kevin to follow up our suite of Typo_13
    contributions. If you wish, I could fly it in a new thread, but like most of my
    exploratory stuff, it's full of 'ennesonese'.\r\n\r\nIn an earlier post you said
    \"[t]he parallel letter recognition model happens to be supported by a number
    of empirical studies, and also conforms to what we know about how the brain seems
    to handle other processes, so I certainly am not going to say that I don\u2019t
    believe it. \"\r\nI think your unreadiness to commit yourself one way or the other
    is fair. But I think your claim that \"[t]he parallel letter recognition model
    happens to be supported by a number of empirical studies\" is misleading. \r\nKevin
    sought support for his claims about word recognition by pointing to the results
    of a series of empirical studies. But the results of some of these studies could
    just as easily sustain a model such as I am proposing, and the results of at least
    one of the others rely on a confounding of the bouma-concept, with 'word shape'
    in its \"raw pattern of neutral, ascending and descending\" meaning. Kevin's claims
    may be compatible with the results, but on their own the data provided by the
    studies he cites \"do not constrain the space of possible models\" to just his,
    or one, or to just the parallel letter recognition model of word recognition.
    (In the quoted phrase just above, I'm alluding to a comment about model confirmation
    in <em>Word skipping: Implications for theories of eye movement control in reading</em>
    by Marc Brysbaert, Denis Drieghe, & Fran\xE7oise Vitu). \r\nAlso, what we know
    about how the 'how the brain seems to handle other processes' is--Kevin would
    be the first to admit--incomplete. And especially what happens in the visual cortex
    before text enters the cognitive stream is far from adequately understood.\r\n\r\nIn
    addition, I wouldn't call what happens in learning 'primary', except insofar as
    it has to happen for learning to occur. If the paper I linked to earlier in this
    post is any indication, we will have to say that what we think of as skilled reading
    of continuous text is an event much different than the effortful process of serial
    letter-wise or bigram / trigram-wise tokenization and sounding out, not just a
    faster, more parallelistic version of the same routine.\r\n\r\nEben, you are right
    about how a workhouse definition might come about. Now I might try: \r\nbouma:
    the bounded map comprised by the totality of stems, cross-bars, bowls, counters,
    between-letter shapes, angular components, and the like, in their pattern. This
    is what we use, etc..."
  created: '2005-10-02 00:16:31'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Willian, one more thing, I don't think of what is going on in the visual cortex
    as an 'assembly process'. I think of it as a trace recognition process. As stimulus-provoked
    impulses move through the structured neural mass, where all kinds of processes
    of integration, enhancement, averaging and squeltching occur, at a certain point
    the system will recognize the trace pattern of neural spikes passing through the
    system. This will happen even with something as complex as radical-based symbols.
    But like with words in alphabetic western texts, the visual-cortex-ware must be
    'trained'.
  created: '2005-10-02 00:46:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t see why serifs can\u2019t be an advantage on the parallel
    processing model.\r\n\r\nIn the PL model serifs can't help, and they would probably
    even hurt, because all they add to the decipherment of individual letters is noise.
    This is why some studies have actually shown that sans fonts are <cite>easier</cite>
    to read - because such studies are confined to deliberative reading.\r\n\r\n>
    1. help maintain even color when letters are spaced\r\n> widely enough for quick
    and easy letter recognition\r\n\r\nSo you're saying:\r\n- sans fonts have less
    even color than serif?\r\nAND/OR\r\n- loose letterspacing helps readability?\r\n\r\nAnd
    concerning even color, the way you're using the term here (properly, unlike in
    that even color thread) I don't see how it helps in anything more than preventing
    errant saccades - and that's an extreme event that's easy to avoid, without really
    making everything \"even\" at all.\r\n\r\n> 2. mark the baseline\r\n\r\nThere's
    no reason to believe this happens. And even if it did, the only way it could help
    is to save space, not aid reading.\r\n\r\n> 3. Help differentiate characters\r\n\r\nExactly
    which characters are mainly differentiated by their serifs?\r\n\r\n> serifs promote
    binding\r\n\r\nExactly. They make individual letters less themselves and more
    parts of wholes. This speeds up reading, in a simple scalability sort of way.\r\n\r\n>
    details that everyone already agrees on\r\n\r\nI dunno about this getting-everyone-to-agree,
    on anything.\r\n\r\n> I believe him at least as much as I believe you.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    avoiding what you need to say... You have no problem detailing how you disagree
    with me, but you never make explicit that you disagree with Kevin about anything.\r\n\r\n>
    conforms to what we know about how the brain seems to handle other processes\r\n\r\n?\r\nQuite
    the contrary.\r\n\r\n> it is obviously a sufficient explanation during the time
    we are learning to read.\r\n\r\nChild's play. Literally. We spend a small fraction
    of our lives learning to read. Focusing on that is like only making all-caps fonts.\r\n\r\n>
    we don\u2019t have a tested model of bouma recognition.\r\n\r\nAnd as long as
    we're stuck in cruise-mode testing (the stuff Kevin does) we'll never be testing
    anything that can help us <cite>improve</cite>.\r\n\r\n> a huge amount of bouma
    recognition rides on context\r\n\r\nYes, something I've repeated at every opportunity.
    But this has no bearing on type design (except to validate the bouma model).\r\n\r\n>
    you, Hrant and I do not, in fact, \u2018agree fundamentally about how reading
    works\u2019. \r\n\r\nNo. But we do agree that the PL model is <cite>at best</cite>
    incomplete.\r\nBut only two of us explicitly admit that.\r\n\r\nWe agree enough,
    for example, to state that serifs help.\r\nThe PL model counters that.\r\n\r\n>
    So even in reading these symbols it is likely, I suspect,\r\n> that an \u2018assembly
    process\u2019 is going on.\r\n\r\nNo, that's too slow.\r\n\r\n> How easy is reading
    scrambled text really?\r\n\r\nOne interesting thing that Luciano Perondi* has
    found is that this is easier to do in some languages than others. To me though,
    reading scambled text precludes good use of the parafovea - so yes, you can read,
    but never approach your full speed.\r\n\r\n* I'll alert him to this thread.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-02 01:05:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, I think William is correct in suggesting \"that serifs are plausibly
    of value to the reader under the parallel processing models as well as bouma theories.
    So the values of serifs is not, to my thinking, a crucial test between competing
    theories.\"\r\n\r\nHere is how I rationalize William's claim:\r\nFrom a perceptual
    processing point of view serifs affect saliences (and saliencies modulate cue-value).
    Herman Bouma and Cyril Latimer, and possibly some other researchers, hypothesize
    that some parts / features of letters or zones in their map have greater cue value
    than others. So if a serif marks an important zone or a cue-value-rich component
    or feature, it will make it more salient and heighten the recognizability of the
    glyph. \r\n(There might also be an argument from 'well-formedness'. 'Well-formedness'
    is a gestalt-theory consideration (and for gestaltists a perceptual processing
    requirement).)\r\n\r\nI can see both a wholistic (whole-wordform resolutional)
    processing oriented researcher and an analytic (parallel-letter recognitional)
    processing oriented researcher accepting the above as a working hypothesis without
    jeapordizing their paradigm.\r\n\r\nWhere they take it will be different. A wholistically
    oriented researcher might hypothesize that under appropriate spacing conditions
    serifs have the added benefit of making the 'whole' more robust or well-formed
    as a whole or perceptual entity, and that that is good, because automatic tokenization
    to the letter or glyph-molar level is inhibited. A researcher with an letter-analytic
    processing bias might hypothesize that just because of that--just because of the
    inhibition of glyph-molar tokenization through lateral interference--letter spacing
    should be wider than most type-involved people think it should. And [s]he will
    want to show that a readbility advantage can be documented.\r\n\r\nSo the values
    of serifs is not a crucial test between competing theories. While predictions
    about spacing, premissed on notions of lateral binding / lateral inhibition that
    have functional-anatomical teeth might be. To me having functional-anatomical
    teeth means conforming with robust knowledge about signal tuning, signal integration,
    signal squelching and signal summation routines in the visual cortex, i.e., robust
    knowledge of lateral interference / integration.\r\n\r\nIf the researcher with
    a 'letter-analytic' bias finds that looser spacing does not produce the documentable
    readability advantage he or she expected, he or she will try to adjust their paradigm
    without jumping ship. Sometimes that will produce explainations that are byzantine
    or inelegant in their complexity. This is what happend to the Ptolemaic picture
    of celestial mechanics--epicycles within epicycles. And than a Copernicus comes
    along and realigns everything."
  created: '2005-10-02 15:32:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">all they [serifs] add to the decipherment of individual letters is noise\r\n\r\nNo,
    serifs add the qualities I mentioned, not just noise. \r\n\r\n>>Exactly which
    characters are mainly differentiated by their serifs?\r\n\r\nNot 'mainly'--the
    main features are preserved in sans faces. But I think serifs make differentiation
    easier. For example, the serif on the top of the n's stem makes the n look more
    different from an o than is the case for a sans, perhaps making it easier to recognize,
    particularly in context of other letters. \r\n\r\n>So you\u2019re saying:\r\n-
    sans fonts have less even color than serif?\r\nAND/OR\r\n- loose letterspacing
    helps readability?\r\n\r\n'No', and 'oversimple'. Sans can have even color, but
    as Tracy points out they normally need to be more tightly spaced to have even
    color. However, I think Peter is on to something about having a set rhythm which
    is then slightly disturbed by where vertical elements hit one way and another--something
    like syncopation in music. \r\n\r\nMy pet theory is that the absence of serifs
    makes it difficult to achieve good spacing for readability, probably because the
    narrrow space between stems violates optimal rhythm in a wide face, such as Helvetica.
    I think things like Meta and Vesta read better because the ratio between the counter
    and space between letters is better. \r\n\r\nThinking about this now, I am thinking
    that one of the reasons even color is important is that it might ease identification
    of what is a 'word' in the parafovea. In other words, if you have an evenly grey
    blob with a space, then another evenly colored blob, it might help to plan the
    next jump of the eye. \r\n\r\n>loose letter spacing. \r\n\r\nThere is obviously
    such a thing as too loose space and too tight spacing, but what is optimal is
    not easy to ascertain.\r\n\r\nPeter, I sort of get the idea of what you are talking
    about as regards rhythm, but not fully. There are two aspects to making it testable.
    One is to specify it with sufficient precision that it will potentially be contradicted
    or connfirmed by further observation. the second aspect has to do with the logical
    links of your spacing ideas to the 'bouma' theories. If you can't derive it logically
    from you Bouma theory then a test of your spacing idea won't reveal anything about
    the larger theory. Similarly, if you can't show that your idea of spacing contradicts
    the parallel processing by letter assembly idea, then you won't have a crucial
    test, enlightening though it may be.  \r\n\r\n   "
  created: '2005-10-02 19:38:35'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "William, without you immersing yourself more fully in the literature I refer
    to, and without me experimenting with ways of articulating what I see until something
    clicks with you or others, it will be difficult for you to follow completely why
    I put things as I do. The two things you say are necessary for my processing model
    to be testable are precisely what I try to do with my talk of molarities, polarities,
    spatial frequency channels, response bias, lateral interference, inhibition of
    glyph-molar tokenization and the rest, as well as my use of fourier transforms.
    (And why I try to push beyond where Hrant has left things.) I use these abberations
    to be specific about what happens in the visual cortex and to connect my sense
    of what happens there to an overarching scheme. That you don't see this means
    I have to work harder to make plain what I see. I'm not sure trying to stick with
    normal everday language will get us there. We require terms that describe events
    at the visual cortext level.\r\n\r\nType-involved readers want a work-horse definition.
    So a concept has to respond to both needs.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-02 20:40:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not sure trying to stick with normal everday language will get us there.
    \r\n\r\nYes, I have not read the literature on the question of readability, so
    I am fumbling. On the other hand Einstein, said that the beginning of any theory
    is an idea and not a formula. To explain a theory fully in lay language is not
    something I would expect, and is unreasonable to ask. But to explain its basic
    idea, so you get what it is about, and how it differs from competitors, is usually
    possible. So I am a little suspicious of the jargon. "
  created: '2005-10-02 21:25:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> I  am a little suspicious of the jargon.\r\n\r\nI am not. We would not
    get nearly so far so quickly if we didn't have words like 'counter' 'serif' 'ascender'
    etc. \r\n\r\nJargon is jargon \r\n\r\n\u2022 only to those who don't see the use/definition
    of the words in use -yet- \r\n\r\n\u2022 or when these words are used when simpler
    words would in fact suffice.\r\n\r\nI think Peter does end up using a certain
    amount of 'ennesonese' as he says or 'jargon' from time to time (example 2). But
    it seems to me that he is making an effort to avoid jargon for it's own sake in
    general and I think those of us who are interested aught to try to meet him half
    way if we want to argue/discuss this bouma-bounded-word-shape-parafovea-thingy...\r\n\r\nActually
    - I wonder who funds research into this kind of stuff. I imagine it isn't all
    that well funded or there might be more people working in the field. Wait a minute
    I really don't know how many people are working on this now. Peter? "
  created: '2005-10-02 22:04:02'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "William, do you get my basic idea and how it differs from Kevin's and pushes
    beyond Hrant's? Have phrases like 'supersedes the molarity of the parts' helped?
    \r\n\r\nLateral inhibition is relatively easy to explain at the ganglion cell
    level. It is far more difficult to discuss at the visual cortex level. Perhaps
    as difficult as it is to discuss elementary particles and how they interact.\r\n\r\nI
    do my best, using words I come across that strike me as relevant, and sometimes
    remixing them. When one works against the grain in a domain that has acheived
    a high degree of sophistication, one needs to be creative. The danger is that
    one can end up looking like a quack.\r\n\r\nEben, plenty of people do research
    on the psychology of reading and a lot of it comes from pedagogical and remedial
    interests, far fewer delve into the perceptual processing mechanics and have type
    interests. This shapes where we look for relavent data: in the cognitive stream,
    or in the visual cortex."
  created: '2005-10-02 22:31:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">We would not get nearly so far so quickly if we didn\u2019t have words like
    \u2018counter\u2019 \u2018serif\u2019 \u2018ascender\u2019 etc.\r\n\r\nIt is pretty
    clear what is the referent of serif and ascender. When a concept is more abstract,
    like 'bouma', problems are more likely. When you start relating two more abstract
    concepts, then things can really start to get fuzzy. It may be that \"molarities,
    polarities, spatial frequency channels, response bias, lateral interference, inhibition
    of glyph-molar tokenization\" all have very clear definitions and are needed to
    explain the theory. If so, I don't have any basic problem with them, although
    a brief definition would be helpful. \r\n\r\nKevin, the research psychologist
    and third part of the Hrant-Peter-Kevin set of papers as I remember had the least
    jargon.\r\n\r\nPeter, no, 'superceeds the molarity of the parts' is not clear
    to me.  I do understand, I think, one way your views are different from Kevin's.
    I'm not sure I understand Hrant's.  "
  created: '2005-10-02 22:34:01'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "[William]\r\n\"When a concept is more abstract, like \u2018bouma\u2019, problems
    are more likely. When you start relating two more abstract concepts, then things
    can really start to get fuzzy.\"\r\n\r\nor complicated, yes \r\n\r\n\"It may be
    that \u201Cmolarities, polarities, spatial frequency channels, response bias,
    lateral interference, inhibition of glyph-molar tokenization\u201D all have very
    clear definitions and are needed to explain the theory. If so, I don\u2019t have
    any basic problem with them, although a brief definition would be helpful.\"\r\n\r\nSo
    it is unwise of me to let out my developing ideas in a forum such as this unless
    I want to lay out in full detail all the unfamiliar terms I use or my idiosyncratic
    use of them, and how they all interrelate. In lieu of definitions I often try
    to put a simpler version beside the more technical term.\r\n\r\nKevin's paper
    in Thessaloniki and Vancouver was directed at a general audience. I used the Thessaloniki
    venue mainly to address concerns I had about his conclusions and how he reached
    them. This may have seemed like a misjudging of the composition of my audience.
    But I felt it was important for the audience to get the sense that things were
    not as straightforward or the reasoning as innocent as Kevin's presentation seemed
    to make them seem, and that my complaints had some teeth.\r\n\r\nWould it have
    helped if I said 'supercedes the 'partness' or the 'independent unitness' of the
    parts? The first seems slighty off in the way the second isn't. Both are grammatical
    aberations, the second more than the first, though both are perhaps more familiar."
  created: '2005-10-02 23:26:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, it probably doesn't matter what terminology you use if you are able
    to produce testable results. But I personally find that the effort to write as
    clearly and concretely as I can forces me to clarify my ideas. So trying to avoid
    what Fowler calls 'abstractitis' I think is a good idea methodologically. But
    honestly only the result matters. If complex terminology is your way to get to
    a good theory, go for it. If not, try another way. \r\n\r\nAs far as being clear,
    if you describe contrasting scenarios, what you are saying will be a lot clearer
    to readers. For example: 1. the parafovea is able to distinguish words to the
    right, and plan a jump. 2. jump. 3. the brain in the initial step identifies all
    differentiating features of a word simultaneously. 4.... and so on."
  created: '2005-10-03 14:34:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"I have not read the literature on the question of readability...\"\r\n\r\nWilliam,
    you need to read material that addresses the matter of <em>perceptual processing</em>
    in reading, and that will include material that addresses reading at the mechanical
    level of neural signal processing: how atomic (= unitary) pulses, originating
    on the retinal surface are combined--here I might indeed use assembled--to give
    the visual cortex an impression of the feature map (all under the supervision
    of a wholistic response bias). Literature thematically focussed on the question
    of readability doesn't usually address this.\r\n\r\nWhat happens with impulses
    originating in the fovea, where rods and cones project to a dense mosaic of ganglion
    cells and then enter the parvocellular stream, where there are additional layers
    of processing?\r\n\r\nWhat happens with impulses originating beyond the fovea,
    where rods and cones project to a much less dense mosaic of ganglion cells and
    then enter the magnocellular stream?\r\n\r\nHow is information from the two streams
    integrated? At what level?\r\n\r\nKevin has a special theory of lateral inhibition
    that applies to signal integration at the ganglion cell level (and it appears
    to be robust), but has, to the best of my knowledge, no <em>explicit and tested</em>
    theory of lateral inhibition or signal integration that applies at the higher
    levels of the visual cortex. Probably different implementations of the same general
    principle apply at all levels, and there are currently judged to be 4 to 7 involved
    in reading. I know of no detailed model that has worked this out in algorithmic
    terms.\r\n\r\nTo fully assess the difference between my proposals and Kevin's
    we will need explicit theories and a set of models that predict behaviour at this
    level, at the neural mechanics level and develop a test which can reveal things
    about these processes relative to immersive reading.\r\n\r\nKevin knows this as
    well as I do and we are both informally committed to making moves to pursue this,
    but without you or others getting into the details at this level my descriptive
    proposals may continue to seem frivolous or needlessy cumbersome to many, and
    we will continue to go around in circles about the need for them, or the usefulness
    of bringing them into discussions of matters like the importance of serif or divergence.
    I bring them in where I think a discussion has become gridlocked and they might
    get the discussion moving again by pushing it to a deeper level in the perceptual
    processing domain.\r\n\r\nI would be happy if others joined the effort to clarify
    what happens at the neural mechanical level in the visual cortex, and could propose
    \ simpler terms that make mine redundant.\r\n\r\nI wrote the above before your
    latest post.\r\n\r\nIn reply to the second paragraph in your latest post, I tried
    to describe contrasting scenarios visually in my Typo_13 contribution, figure
    6 an 9. Figure 9 illustrates the last paragraph on page 24.\r\nFigure 6 is here:
    http://www3.sympatico.ca/penneson/pe_figure_6.pdf\r\n\r\nThe correct version of
    Figure 9 is: http://www3.sympatico.ca/penneson/pe_figure_9.pdf\r\n\r\nI also find
    that \"the effort to write as clearly and concretely as I can forces me to clarify
    my ideas.\" I try to avoid abstractitis, but I don't see any benefit in avoiding
    abstractions when they are called for. Frequently they are, but that is a judgement
    you might not share. That being said, I do enjoy serious terminological play,
    and it probably shows. \r\n\r\nIn your: \"the parafovea is able to distinguish
    words to the right\" I would have problems with \"distinguish words\". What does
    'distinguish' mean? It is too open a term to discuss visual mechanics and the
    specifics of saccade-generation. The most I can confidently assert is \"assembles
    accurate ensemble statistics about\" (not my terms, though I've adopted them),
    and the parafovea doesn't <em>do</em> it, the ganglion cells do it on the basis
    of information the parafovea supplies. Etc. What do these ensemble statistics
    look like or give information about? We are still not sure. More testing needs
    to be done to tease that out.\r\n\r\nThe point is, if we want to explore and weigh
    Hrant's idea of bouma identification in parafoveal vision to the point where his
    conclusions might become fruitful for channelling typographic practice, we will
    have to be clear about (specify) how \"distinguish words\" needs to be understood.
    Sorry William, I see no other way. "
  created: '2005-10-03 16:11:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "addition to the above:\r\n\r\nWhen you lay aside the 'niave-realism' notion
    that the visual cortex simply and mysteriously draws an internal representation
    on a mental canvas and then matches it to tokens in a database, things become
    a whole lot more complex, but also more exciting. It's like answering the question:
    if atoms are mostly empty space, how is it that we experience things as solid?"
  created: '2005-10-03 16:47:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> I would have problems with \u201Cdistinguish words\u201D.\r\n\r\nI wasn't
    putting forward a theory, just giving an example of a scenario with 'dummy text'
    of somewhat vague words. My point is that of C.S. Peirce in his essay 'How to
    Make Our Ideas Clear': the more we identify the practical consequences of our
    concepts the clearer they are. So I think \"serious terminological play\" gets
    in the way of clarity. But as I said, if you are able to use your terminology
    and get to testable results, more power to you. \r\n\r\nI'm not going to study
    this issue properly, as it will take months (at least) to do it right, and other
    work presses. I just wanted to bring up a methodological issue. But there is no
    one path to innovation. Whatever works, works. If terminological play works for
    you, and in the end gets a testable version of your interesting ideas, fine. But
    if you find that you are stuck with that, then my suggestion is to 'operationalize'
    it: make in-principle testable, concrete scenarios. "
  created: '2005-10-03 17:05:15'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"But if you find that you are stuck with that, then my suggestion is to
    \u2018operationalize\u2019 it: make in-principle testable, concrete scenarios.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is what my terminological proposals seek to promote: suitable  operationalization.
    Operationalization is not the <em>alternative</em> to what I try to do. It <em>is</em>
    what I try to do with all the plain language and terminological resources I can
    muster. You are unhappy with my <em>way</em> of doing it and the consequences.
    In my Typo article I complained about Kevin's paper's 'inadequate operationalizing'
    of the construct 'word space', and I explore avenues to operationaliize the construct
    more adequately. Which is why we need the specificity potential provided by the
    bouma-concept.\r\n\r\nThe reason for my challenge was for you to put yourself
    in my shoes. I would love to see what your terminological appartus might look
    like after suitable immersion, or what the terminological appartus of the both
    of us together might look like after suitable immersion.\r\n\r\nDid Charles Saunders
    Pierce say 'practical'? Functional-behavioural consequences at different levels
    of processing in the visual cortex are one thing; consequences for practice quite
    another. Both enhance clarity. I try to explore both. Which is why I try to articulate
    a specific proposal for rhythmic spacing using fourier transforms.\r\n\r\nI don't
    think I am leaving aside things that need to be done where I can (I don't have
    access to a lab or team of researchers; but I do have fourier processing plugins),
    and doing less relevant things instead, out of the context of what needs to be
    done."
  created: '2005-10-03 17:43:34'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"I wasn\u2019t putting forward a theory\"\r\n\r\nI realize that. I was trying
    to show that the moment you scratch the surface of plain language when you try
    to import it into scientific domains that explore functioning in a detailed way,
    you run into trouble."
  created: '2005-10-03 17:51:20'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "another try at 'independant of their molarity' \r\nindependent of the the
    fact that various subsets of components in the total bounded map form independant
    stimulus units or glyphs on their own, on the basis of their contiguity, attachedness
    or connectedness, \r\ni.e., independant of the glyph-unit-partness of the parts\r\n\r\n'independant
    of their polarity'\r\ni.e. for the visual cortex, <em>both the white stuff and
    the black stuff within a bounded map</em> have information value that goes toward
    recognition, again, 'in its pattern'--both the black stuff and white stuff <em>are</em>
    information susceptible to compact encoding in a unitized way to facilitate retrieval:
    the visual cortex works with the black and white together, at the stem / counter,
    etc. level, in their conjunction.\r\n\r\nDoes this help?\r\n\r\nAll this makes
    rhythmic spacing important. Hrant will probably want to say black / white balance
    (= notan)"
  created: '2005-10-04 17:06:06'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "More to: \"all this makes rhythmic spacing important\"\r\n\r\nIf the spacing
    is too wide, so that the internal and external whites (within the bounded map)
    are out of synchronicity and the vertical components out of phase to the point
    of setting up competing spatial frequency peaks rather than one dominant spatial
    frequency peak (with harmonic frequency peaks dependant on that one), the visual
    cortex will be inclined to interpret the retinal imput data <em>according to</em>
    molarities and more dependant on the black. The efficiencies gained by compact
    <em>encodings</em> (of material across the bounded map) <em>at the stem / counter,
    etc.</em> level will be lost."
  created: '2005-10-04 18:10:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Peter - would you expand on that last post and maybe show us some examples?
    What for instance do you mean by 'out of synchronicity'? I think I know what you
    mean but without looking at something I feel unsure.\r\n\r\nI ask this because
    I have an idea that this idea of your relates to that pet idea I had about textfaces/notan/caligraphy
    etc. This is the one I mean:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/14816\r\n\r\nI would
    like it if somebody would respond to that thread too - hint! hint!\r\n\r\nI would
    also like to add that other ideas you have expressed in text would be easier for
    me to apprehend if there were visual examples too. I know it would be alot of
    work and that not all the ideas lend themselves to being shown. Still, if you
    you don't ask...\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2005-10-07 17:36:43'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, while you were posting your post, I was preparing the following (I
    do think my last post and your thread are related; expanding /providing illustrations
    is the long-term plan):\r\n\r\nAfter a representative but not exhaustive search
    of the google-store of material about bouma and bouma shape on line, and in the
    context of the above, I suggest that for general use, or as a workhorse definition,
    we stick with the Paul Saenger gloss of the term or go with the widely available
    wikipedia definition.\r\n\r\nHere is what the wikipedia makes of it:\r\n\"the
    shape of a cluster of letters, often a whole word\"*\r\nSaegner's gloss:\r\n\"each
    word a distinct image\"\r\n\r\nIf we need or want to discuss word shape or reading
    at a deeper level than this allows, I suggest we use the expanded notion of bouma
    as <em>the bounded map of salient whites inclusive af the black</em>** to guide
    us in our thinking about word shape and reading. So the word shape of the word
    is its map or distinctive pattern of salient whites, inclusive of the black. \r\n\u2022
    this puts our thinking about shape and recognition into congruency with an, I
    think, robust notion of how the visual cortex processes word-like-stimuli;\r\n\u2022
    it discourages 'easy operationalism' by calling to mind more with the term word
    shape than is usually meant in the cognitive scientific, perception-science and
    neurological literature on reading (beyond 'envelope structure' and 'raw pattern
    of neutral, ascending, and descending characters,' it encodes internal figural
    form elements)\r\n\u2022 it channels action in productive directions, encouraging
    us--when working with existing types, or devising new ones--to think about the
    whole, and the white, divergence and the visual integrity of the word image \r\n\r\nSo
    for purposes of discussion I will call the word shape of the word its distinctive
    map or pattern of salient whites, inclusive of the black. And when I say reading
    is bouma-based I will mean by this, that this is what the reading person orients
    his or her attention to for the purposes of perceptual processing: the bounded
    map of salient whites, inclusive of the black.\r\n\r\nDigging even deeper has
    additional benefits. Things like the importance of spacing becomes apparent. Things
    like the importance of space craft becomes apparent when we specify a perceptual
    processing scenario or scheme and the neural signal transmission mechanism underlying
    it. \r\nHere is a new try at describing my scheme:\r\nLetter parts, not letter
    wholes, are the mediating agents in word recognition. In fluent reading of well-formatted
    continuous text, assembling letter parts into their letter wholes, as an intermediate
    step (I call this: componential abstraction), does not spontaneously occur. (This
    contradicts Kevin) The perceptual processing routines that underlie word recognition
    go from the disturbance of the bounded map (or field) by letter parts to the pattern
    of the salient whites. The pattern of the salient whites inside the black is what
    we most rely on. What we see is the map of salient whites inclusive of the black.
    And we see this particular map as this meaning-holding word.\r\n\r\n\r\n* The
    full wikipedia entry reads:\r\nThe term bouma (pronounced \"bowma\") is sometimes
    used in the work of cognitive psychology to mean the shape of a cluster of letters,
    often a whole word. Some typographers believe that, when reading, people can recognize
    words by deciphering boumas, not just individual letters. The claim is that this
    is a natural strategy for increasing reading efficiency. The term bouma is a reduction
    of \"Bouma-shape\", which was probably first used in Paul Saenger's 1997 book
    \"Space between Words: The Origins of Silent Reading\", although Saenger himself
    attributes it to Insup & Maurice Martin Taylor.\r\n\r\nThe bouma as 'reduction'
    quip makes me think of my 'bouma as bounded map' as an 'expansion' (this could
    be further expanded to 'bounded difference map')\r\n\r\n** <em>the bounded map
    of salient whites inclusive of the black</em> is an attempt to come up with something
    more succinct than: \"the bounded map comprised by the totality of stems, cross-bars,
    bowls, counters, between-letter shapes, angular components, and the like, in their
    pattern.\" It is also slightly differently skewed."
  created: '2005-10-07 19:33:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "RE: 'the bounded map of salient whites inclusive af the black'\r\n\r\nI really
    like this. Even though you mean to parcel out & define with this phrase ( not
    a bad thing ) I find it contains some of poetry and vigor that bouma & notan signify
    to me.\r\n\r\nYour breakdown is useful too.\r\n\r\nTo me it seems like a workhorse
    definition should include both the idea in that phrase & phrase 'the shape of
    a cluster of letters, often a whole word'. The idea doesn't seem complete in either
    one alone. \r\n\r\nI also think some of the language could be made easier without
    compromising the idea - words like 'salient', & 'bounded map' seem like good places
    to attempt substitutions.  I don't know if I can do it but I'll give it a stab.
    Even if I fail I will come closer to understanding what you mean. I don't have
    time today but maybe later this week.\r\n\r\nThanks for pushing this topic along.
    You are doing 90% of the heavy lifting!"
  created: '2005-10-08 02:35:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "This is still pretty rough...\r\n\r\nBouma is \" the combined visual features
    of lights and darks, usually darks shapes bounded  a ligher color, made by grouped
    forms in printed or written or on-screen communication.\"\r\n\r\nI wrote this
    to try to use more common language while avoiding talking about shapes or other
    kinds of misleading specifics. I also wanted to write a definition that allowed
    for bouma in the context of non western forms like Hindi, Arabic & Chinese. I
    am sure it's pretty weak since it's a just a 1st draft but hopefully the idea
    I am trying to get across is there in seed form.\r\n\r\nI realized while writting
    this that I am unsure that elipisis ( ... ) could be said to have a bouma shape.
    I think intuitively it must because it is a combination.  Whereas a period cannot
    because it is just one form. Still, a One in Chinese is a single stroke - and
    it seems somehow counteruintuitive to deny it a bouma shape...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-11 07:57:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben, what seems to be missing from your definition is the idea of the bouma
    as subset group of forms within a word (unless the word is short enough to consitute
    a bouma in itself). Perhaps you want something like this:\r\n\r\nBouma is 'the
    combined visual features of lights and darks ... recognised as a discreet unit
    of grouped forms in printed or written or on-screen communication.'\r\n\r\n\r\nYou
    raise an interesting point: can a bouma consist of a single typeform, or does
    the term always imply a group? I'm half inclined to say that bouma should be defined
    precisely by that act of recognition, or tokenisation, so a bouma is as large
    or small as what we recognise discreetly. In terms of the kind of role architecture
    that Peter has described, it is even possible to consider that a bouma might be
    smaller than a single typeform."
  created: '2005-10-11 08:52:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, I like \"made by grouped forms\" but I think we've lost the sense of
    'in their pattern' that 'map' provides.\r\n\r\nIn following the recent arabetic
    threads at ATypI I came to realize 'bounded map of salient whites inclusive of
    the black' is convenient for the western scripts, but useless for arabetic scripts
    where recognition at the word level seems to rely heavily on the disturbances
    provided by arrhythmia and amplitude and facingness to simple undulance, at the
    junctures between graphemes--seems to rely on action at the junctures. The interesting
    thing is: the script forces perceptual attention away from the 'gravitational
    centre' of graphemes to the junctural action pattern--the action where the left
    and right ends of graphemes meet--, accented / inflected by the pointing system.
    Interestingly, the characteristic fourier transform of texts in arabetic scripts
    looks very different than a text in a latin script. It operates as it were on
    a different premise.\r\n\r\nThe question becomes, do we need a different term
    to name this or do we try to adapt the term bouma. At the moment I would opt for
    a different term. So we would say reading of semitic or latin-derived texts is
    bouma-based, while reading of arabetic texts is.... This does not preclude a deeper
    commonality. In both cases the perceptual system must attend away from the center
    of gravity of the bricks.\r\n\r\nJohn, I think it is fair to ask, can a single
    token be a unit of perception or recognition in reading, and I would say it could.
    I think though that the questions the term bouma seeks to answer are: in a cluster,
    is the unit of <em>perception</em> in recognition in fluent reading of continuous
    texts the individual tokens in the cluster, or the cluster as a whole; and, if
    it is the whole, are the 'mediating agents' in processing the tokens, or their
    parts in their pattern, or is there only the envelope structure or raw pattern
    of neutral, ascending and descending components? So to my mind the good sense
    of using the term evaporates when we try to use it in reference to letters, or
    components of letters.\r\n\r\nI would say tokenization happens when the word is
    long or complex and there is a familiar item in our bouma-store that corresponds
    to the part currently in foveal vision. (And when this happens a process of completion
    occurs.) So tokenization is bouma-based.\r\n\r\nEben, in reference to your other
    thread you might want to explore Thomas Milo's work on allographic typography."
  created: '2005-10-11 15:06:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "John, you are right that I didn't use the word 'word'. \r\n\r\nI didn't &
    don't take my phrase *too* seriously since I don't have the expertise or understanding
    ( yet ) to craft a good phrase. And I knew somebody would be there to bring up
    the point! \r\n\r\nI guess I was trying to avoid that issue for now to concentrate
    on the possibility of making bouma a term that might be applied to  non-western
    writting systems too. I would like Bouma to be a term that is as universal as
    it can be. I don't know how universal that can be. But I would like to know. In
    science and culture there is a tempermetal tendency to be a lumped or a splitter.
    I recognize that I am more of a lumper. It's just my temperment.\r\n\r\nOriginally
    I started my attepted definition with some word/word subset/tokenization language
    but then I started adding phrases that related to radicals in Kanji/Chinese charcters
    realized that Hiragana (the non-Chinese derived japanese forms) were maybe not
    covered yet, there was the problem of the Chinese 'one' character and that I had
    no language to describe hindi, urdu or Arabic - and so I glossed this aspect.
    \r\n\r\nI do recognize that this is maybe a big problem because the idea or the
    'word shape' was I think pushed over to allow for a more nuanced idea of 'the
    shape of a cluster of letters, often a whole word'. So there is a link that has
    to be adressed.\r\n\r\nHowever, look at what this new phrase does! It is both
    more inclusive and broad but also much more precise. No small feat!\r\n\r\nI suppose
    I thought that tendency or direction might be continued. \r\n\r\nThat pretty much
    described my motivation for using that kind of phrasing except of course for my
    already admitted interest in relating bouma to Notan. Since my (quite possibly
    naive) view of Notan includes Chinese Japnese caligraphy (probably other kinds
    too) and the since the definition of Notan relates closely to Bouma I was also
    motivated to consider these links too.\r\n\r\nObviously the 'way' we read varies
    with the script/language used but there are a ton of relevant pralells too. 'Bounded
    map' for instance might be used just as well with any script type - not just western
    ones.\r\n\r\nPeter,\r\n\r\nI agree with you about the loss of the idea of pattern.
    And I see how 'map' provides that in a professional context but I still don't
    know that a non-techincal person or art/design student is going to get the sense
    from the phrase 'bounded map'. Not right away anyway. I'll have another go perhaps
    & see what I can do there. Obviously it's a really useful phrase and can't be
    tossed out lightly.\r\n\r\nI am not sure if you are right about the arabic. Sure
    the script is structured very differently but it is still a pattern of lights
    & darks with readable salient features. It doesn't seem to me that we can talk
    about bouma (or notan) in the context of Chinese or Japanese & not allow it for
    Arabic. Arabic can also takes alot of extreme forms where salient features are
    stretched  - but doesn't always have to. There are also condensed arabic forms.
    So it is especially tough to compare. Tougher both because of the profound variety
    of expression within it & it's inhernet structures. But the way I see it toughness
    doesn't get us off the hook.\r\n\r\nI guess that I think that if it is possible
    it would be good to separate the 'Bouma' definition from reliance on the processes
    specific to reading western texts. Maybe it should be a term that relates to the
    parcelling of visual stimulus alone. I am not saying that we should not use bouma
    to describe a reading process - not at all. \r\n\r\nBouma seems like a great candidate
    to describe parsing of raw perception, whereas other words like Tokenization do
    a good job of describing interpretation. It seems preferable to me just now because
    Bouma is freed from script specific arguements over how we read but still does
    a good job of describing a genuinely interesting, useful and complicated idea
    about the visual stimulus.\r\n\r\nLet me ask you both about the idea of tokenization.
    I am not clear I get this.\r\n\r\nhere are 3 contrasting examples: 'start' '3'
    & 'modernization'\r\n\r\nWith 'start' the token & bouma shape happen to be the
    same. I think there is no disagreement about this. \r\n\r\nWith '3' I wonder if
    you can say it has a bouma. It seems like you should be able to say it does according
    to my visual only definition anyway. Accidentally it is also a token too. I think...\r\n\r\nAnd
    then there is 'modernization' There 'token''iz'& 'ation' are the tokens or maybe
    'modern' & 'ization'. But the idea is that we parcel whole sections of the word
    visually ( bouma ) and that we can then make meaning from these clusters ( token
    ). \r\n\r\nMaybe parcelizing & interpretaion are too close to separate. \r\n\r\nI'll
    have to check out that Thomas Milo."
  created: '2005-10-11 18:47:20'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, I don't see the 'much more precise'. I would have said: more diffuse,
    and less crisp!\r\n\r\nWhen you dropped the parcelling of visual stimuli phrase
    I had a moment of envy. My issue with Kevin's model is all about how the visual
    cortex parses / parcels.\r\n\r\nQuickly, I think tokenization is unlikely to happen
    with 'start'; tokenization happens around the 'modern' of 'modernization', but
    not around the 'ization', because there a completing mechanizm takes over. In
    '3' tokenization doesn't need to happen, and it only makes sense to think here
    of recognition being bouma-based in a derived sense--according to my sense of
    it, that is. \r\n\r\nI have not considered some of the other script sytems you
    describe fully enough to comment about them, but I'm inclined to say 'bounded
    map' could apply to chinese / japanese scripts. But what I would put after 'of'
    in relation  to them is unclear to me. I'm not sure it would come out 'bounded
    map <em>of salient whites</em> etc."
  created: '2005-10-11 19:22:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: ">  I\u2019m not sure it would come out \u2018bounded map of salient whites
    etc.\r\n\r\nI am not surfe why. What does the 'of' indicate? The thing is I can
    read japanese ( a tiny bit ) and there is in hiragana a close paralel to lettering
    in that each form relates to a sound and is not usually indicating an idea all
    by itself - unlike the more complicated chinese characters. But despite this complicated
    and rich set of reading behavior - I am still registering shapes or 'parcelling
    of visual stimuli' since you like the phrase. And I am still looking at black
    & white. So why not a bounded map? Is bounded part of bounded map related to the
    discreet forms - the separateness of letters? If so, Japnese has it in print,
    except sometimes with the chinese charcters Kanji which could be said to be running
    together, but then each Kanji is separate too so maybe each one of those could
    be considered bounded... But in a running script this boundedness ( if that is
    what you mean ) goes away. But then quickly written Western cursive lacks this
    boundedness too.  \r\n\r\nI am speculating all over the place now. \r\n\r\nArabic
    is unusually complicated so maybe we can leave it to one side until I am following
    your idea better.\r\n\r\nBTW I tried out the phrase 'parcelling of visual stimuli
    ' to see if I could undergird the idea of separating a kind of universal Bouma
    characterized by visual stimulus/perception from one a Bouma whose definition
    was inexticably linked to western text. Maybe it's too late. Maybe thats wrong
    headed.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think?\r\n\r\nIt would be fun to sit with beer & a
    napkin & show my examples... Maybe in Boston in July."
  created: '2005-10-11 22:10:34'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I think it might be futile. \r\n\r\nWhen I look at chinese characters I don't
    have the same sense of containedness of space by the black, so I am not confident
    about the 'of salient whites' part in 'bounded map / pattern of salient whites...'
    with chinese characters in a block or cursive script. And I don't have the same
    sense of the closedness or enclosedness of the figural complex I do with words
    in western writing either. So I'm hesitant to transpose the concept to the chinese
    script domain. It seems less applicable. I don't want to force it. And I don't
    want to loose what 'bounded map of salient whites inclusive of the black' adds
    to a notion of word shape beyond what is usually meant by it in studies of reading.\r\n\r\nWith
    chinese writing I get more of a sense of marks that together have a unique and
    quietly assertive clusteral signature, tightly packed but not clogged to the practiced
    reader, and without a definable silhoutte structure--I'm trying to find apt words
    here. \r\n\r\nLike the arabetic samples Thomas Milo shows in his allographic typography
    pdf there seems to be less reliance possible on the pattern of salient whites
    in recognition. The eye seems to be forced on to a dependance on other features
    of the map. (There's something here like recognizing an animal has been here by
    the tracks, as if an idea has alighted here...)\r\n\r\nThe initial appeal of parsing
    / parcelling was on a different level for me than the bouma-definitional level.
    I was thinking of the parsing done by the visual cortex at the role-architectural
    component level, and the parcelling of them 'independant of molarities'.\r\n\r\nBeer
    and examples would be good."
  created: '2005-10-11 23:34:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">unlike the more complicated chinese characters\r\n\r\nIn Chinese characters,
    the compounded ones (with more than one radical) usually have part indicating
    the sound-a simpler character with the same sound but different meaning-and one
    part indicating the meaning. I forget whether the sound one is on the left or
    right, but it is systematic, I believe.  \r\n\r\nPeter, going back to your commments
    on the importance of rhythm in the counters as they march across the page. I like
    the ideas, and it sounds like this could be put into a valuable, and maybe true
    testable theory. But I don't see why it couldn't also be made part of a parallel
    processing view. There the idea could be that good rhythm enables the eye to pick
    out individual letter quicker, but the processing is by assembly of letters into
    the word, and matching with a mental dictionary. \r\n\r\nFinally a general comment
    on the bouma vs parallel view. My old teacher Popper had the theory that the mind
    was actively, relentlessly testing our theories in order to understand incoming
    data. For example, the periodic reversal in optical illusions, such as the <a
    href=\"http://www.cut-the-knot.org/Curriculum/Geometry/Necker.shtml\">Necker Cube</a>,
    he attributed to the brain testing and then failing to confirm one theory of the
    perspective, and then trying another theory. \r\n\r\nIf the brain is trying this
    super fast and multi-faceted hypothesis testing on letters and words, we might
    expect that every type of analysis is at work, maybe simultaneously. For example,
    short words like 'was' might be recognized immediately as patterns--the 'bouma'
    view--while if there is not such an immediate recognition an assembly process
    might be going on--or both in two tracks simultaneously, with one abandoned when
    context corroborates a guessed meaning. Also the brain might be guessing from
    first and last letters, and the meaning of the contextual words--explaining how
    we don't notice many typos. In other words, as soon as the brain gets a plausible
    hypothesis given the  contextual meaning, it might just fly along further with
    that meaning, and only have the eye jump back if not confirmed, to look more carefully.
    For example, it is possible that the brain can identify words from a few individual
    letters without identifying a     full bouma or doing a full assembly process.
    This could be tested perhaps by having words with missing or wrong letters and
    see how easily they are read. \r\n\r\nThos cxxld bx txxted by hxvxng wxxds wxth
    mxssxng or wxxng lxttxrs.\r\n\r\nThis reminds me of the fact that Hebrew is normally
    written without vowels, and that English, without vowels, is surprisingly easy
    to read without vowels, except for very short words.\r\n \r\nThs rmnds me tht
    Englsh is sprsngly easy to rd wtht vwls...\r\n \r\nThe way some words with missing
    letters are easy to read and others hard would probably tell us a lot about the
    process--maybe there's even a test here. Misspell word with a related 'bouma'--such
    as round letter replacing another round, and one with an ascender another ascender--or
    mangled letters with some feature of the original, then that should be much more
    quickly read than with letters replaced by words whose features are more different
    by salient features--or not, depending on who's right.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-12 03:09:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "William, to take every possibility you throw out and address it item by item
    would take much more time and resources than I have available. (Or maybe it's
    because it's late in the evening and I don't have the energy.) If you think some
    of the things you suggest have legs, try to develop them in dialogue with the
    avaiable data from neuroscience and perceptual psychology, studies of eye movements,
    etc. To me the terms of reference you use are too coarse and the reference to
    the brain trying out theories and hypothesis in a perceptual processing frame,
    too analogical to get very far. \r\n\r\nBut I don't think rhythmic spacing would
    naturally flow from a parallel letter recognition processing model where contextual
    interference is taken into account. I don't think it would be regarded as an consequence
    of a parallel letter processing view.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-12 04:35:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Peter, I was just throwing out these ideas to see if anything seemed worth
    pursuing, or resonated with your thinking. If not, forget it. \r\n\r\nThe question
    of whether the rhythm idea is consistent with the parallel processing view has
    to be ascertained by developing a clear theory of good rhythm in type, and deducing
    observable predictions from the parallel processing view that are inconsistent
    with predictions from a bouma theory.\r\n\r\nA good theory of rhythm in type would
    have merit whether or not it discriminates between the bouma vs parallel processing
    view. "
  created: '2005-10-12 04:47:54'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "William, thanks. The things you threw out resonated more with things I've
    read in the literature on reading than they do with my own thinking. But they
    do require consideration. I am on a different track but one that needs to be able
    to accomodate what transpires when the reader meets the kind of truncations you
    spell out. One of the things I do hold is that, when the reader trips over an
    unfamiliar word, a process is set in motion that is decipherment based, and tokenization
    to the letter level happens. Something like word-identity, pronunciation and meaning
    hypothesis testing might happen here. So there is some overlap at this level with
    your suggestions.\r\n\r\nOn the matter of spacing and rhythm, I'm using fourier
    transforms to get some kind of a stable benchmark for defining good rhythm. Then
    I want to describe a theory of lateral interference that guages the inhibition
    to molarization in a rhythmic system where stem-like agents are the items for
    processing. I think this will predict what happens to the Word Superiority Effect
    under different spacing conditions, and what response patterns (relative to accuracy
    and response times) we should see in a forced-choice test where spacing and format
    are the independant variables and co-varied.\r\n\r\nThen the question becomes,
    what kind of theory can best explain the pattern of results. And what results
    would test my confidence in my scheme."
  created: '2005-10-12 13:43:29'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Eben, I am starting to shift my opinion about the applicability of bounded
    map to arabetic scripts. Though my sampling set is quite limited, it is clear
    to me now that in assimilative scripts the map of visual items is clearly bounded
    left and right.
  created: '2005-10-12 15:56:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nMaybe I can post some examples on a new thread & ask you to comment
    on them. Maybe I can call the thread 'bounded map' or something.  July is far
    away! \r\n\r\nThis is what I will be trying to get at with my examples: I thought
    that boundedness was something that you had been using in order to avoid fixating
    only 'black' and allowing for a more Notanic or whole view. A view that was aware
    of both the shape of letters and of the counters and in-between shapes. \r\n\r\nLet
    me try my idea out in a simple way here first: In western letterforms we have
    counters which are surrounded by black. Like in an 'O'. In this case for instance
    the white of the counter is a part of the bounded map as much as the white around
    the outside of the 'O' is it not? \r\n\r\nWilliam, your posts are intertesting
    but I have not left off trying to sort out basic terms yet to go on to reading
    theory yet. Thats why I haven't commented."
  created: '2005-10-12 20:24:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben: <em>I thought that boundedness was something that you had been using
    in order to avoid fixating only \u2018black\u2019 and allowing for a more Notanic
    or whole view. A view that was aware of both the shape of letters and of the counters
    and in-between shapes.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that is what I am after.\r\n\r\nEben:
    <em>Let me try my idea out in a simple way here first: In western letterforms
    we have counters which are surrounded by black. Like in an \u2018O\u2019. In this
    case for instance the white of the counter is a part of the bounded map as much
    as the white around the outside of the \u2018O\u2019 is it not?</em>\r\n\r\nExactly.
    \r\n\r\nI think what might have thrown you off is my comments about Arabetic scripts.
    In your reply to those comments you asked: \"Is [the] bounded part of bounded
    map related to the discreet forms--the separateness of letters?\" In reply to
    this I say: no, it is intended to refer to the whole of the cluster.\r\n\r\nBut
    when I look at the items in this Thomas Milo sample:\r\nwww.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/fa_bi_tathbiitayni.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    see a bounded map, but bounded--in the full sense of the word--on the left and
    right only. Top to bottom there is more of a dispersion pattern of marks across
    a peak / valleyed band. I don't get the sense that 'pattern of salient whites
    inclusive of the black' is descriptive of what is there, or what the visual cortex
    relies on. I might opt for something like: 'bounded map of marked and salient
    peaks, inclusive of the valleys, and inclusive of the markings: in their pattern.
    I am unsure of how to include the white, because it is rarely 'contained' except
    at the extermities left and right, and stuctured in the valleys."
  created: '2005-10-12 21:49:12'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "William [importance of rhythm]: <em>I don\u2019t see why it couldn\u2019t
    also be made part of a parallel processing view. There the idea could be that
    good rhythm enables the eye to pick out individual letters quicker...</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    a system that responds to salience, and gauges processing protocols by distance
    between stems, placing equi-distance above connectivity accross a salient gap,
    why / how would a rhythm where vertical blacks are in step and whites in synch
    promote rather than inhibit automatic processing according to molarity? \r\n\r\nAn
    encoding based on compiling statistics about the salient white strikes me as offering
    efficiences over one that is premised on going against the natural grain of visual
    processing and than reassembling the whole outside the visual cortex.\r\n\r\nAsk:
    what would the processing rule have to be in a field where visual gravitational
    forces (between visual subcomponents) and mass (saliency) rules behaviour?"
  created: '2005-10-13 13:33:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: William, regarding your 'multi-faceted hypothesis testing' scheme, I'll say
    there are more than one routes to recognition, but it's not a horse-race between
    competing routes. When the preferred efficient 'non-molarizing' / 'pattern of
    salient-white compiling' route does'nt work because the cluster (or the part of
    the cluster that is in the form-resolving field) is unfamiliar, the system switches
    horses taking the longer and harder route to recognition, tokenizing to the letter
    level, with a subsequent (re)assembly process. A different set of signal-processing
    protocols kicks in, that will, over repeated encounters with the new word, lead
    to a boumatic shortcut / a compressed encoding. Also, the perceptual processes
    work on a principle of sufficient confidence, not absolute confidence. This leads
    to missed typos, etc.
  created: '2005-10-13 19:55:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Peter, thanks for the examples. \r\n\r\nI guess I intuit what you mean about
    the Milo examples and white boundedness on the L&R sides. The trouble is that
    the tops also seem bounded to me. The black is surrounded by white. The meaning
    I am taking is like that of water. Water, for instance, surrounds islands. An
    island is bounded by water. See what I mean? I wonder if the bounded you mean
    has to do with the sweep of an eye over the text. Maybe you are suggesting that
    a text which has overly long ascenders (or has overly long descenders) ends up
    being read like an eye over a picket fence at close range. That would make the
    text (for a reader) 'not bounded' perceptually speaking - despite being litterally
    bounded by white. I wonder if in the case of the taller more extreme examples
    / styles of arabic text the point of focus is less tight and the Bouma idea is
    applicable after all. Also, the most extreme examples of this kind of writting
    is usually reserved for a title - not running text - but we are not experts. I
    would need to look into this quite a bit more. Still, as an example maybe arabic
    text is a good theoretical model to help me understand what you mean.\r\n\r\nThe
    next aspect I wanted to explore is common to Hebrew & chinese & Japanese. An abscence
    of word spacing. In all there texts you get a series of glyphs which share a common
    height ( no arabic style problem here! ). But there is a second variance with
    western text. One that arabic doesn't have. 'Words' are not separated. In Hebrew
    there might be texts where this is done now ( are there? I know modern hebrew
    uses quotes sometimes too...) but old hebrew did not do this. So in this way Old
    Hebrew might be violating an idea about bouma - that there must be word spacing.
    Chinese might not be said to do this because each ideogram can be perhaps thought
    of as a word. On the other hand the regularity of texts might be an issue. Japanese
    text is a hybrid. It uses Chinese characters but then also uses phonetic characters
    ( Hiragana & Katakana ) with no word spaces.\r\n\r\nThe last aspect I wondered
    about is the dense kind of Chinese character - one with many marks packed tightly.
    For some reason I had an idea that this kind of glyph would be be the sort of
    thing that would violate an idea about being 'bounded by white'. Now I doubt you
    would have a problem with it  - but I would still like you to comment on it."
  created: '2005-10-14 16:30:54'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, thanks for pushing me on all this because it has generated many refinements
    to my thinking about where we should take the term. But I have to be a bit cryptic
    in reply because of other commitments.\r\n\r\nwrt paragraph 1 & 3:\r\nDon't think
    <em>white</em> boundedness; think: <em>map</em> or <em><strong>salient</strong>
    (for vision) relevant-<strong>component</strong> (can be black and / or white
    in different quantities or proportions) <strong>map</strong></em>\r\n\r\nwrt paragraph
    2:\r\nThink of this: for bouma-based processing to work there doesn't have to
    be word spacing. There only has to be a store of <em>(linguistic-)<strong>sense-tagged</strong></em>
    bouma-level encodings. (rote memorization of grammers in scribal schools might
    help build them--i.e., the encodings) In unseparated texts tokenization to the
    bouma-shape level has to occur for reading to proceed."
  created: '2005-10-14 18:07:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Eben, Hebrew always has word spaces now, and has had for at least 2000 years.
    The spaces in Chinese are, as you say in effect word spaces. However, in reality
    most Chinese words are two syllables and two characters, not one, so the Chinese
    case doesn't quite fit either way. \r\n\r\nPeter, I haven't had time to work through
    your argument on why your theory can't derived from the parallel processing view,
    and I will be away from the internet, more or less, for the next month, but best
    wishes with the development of your ideas on this. "
  created: '2005-10-14 19:05:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Thanks William, we'll see where it goes. If you ever get a chance, read George
    A. Kelly's <em>The Psychology of Personal Constructs</em> (1955: W. W. Norton
    & Company). (George Kelly is my Karl Popper.) It's fundamental to how I think
    about theory / practice and how I work with concepts. Or do you know it?\r\n\r\nIn
    relation to this thread:\r\nDon't ask: do boumas exist; ask if the bouma-concept
    is a fertile construct--for 1) understanding perceptual processing in reading
    and for 2) channelling practice.\r\n(That's not Kelly, but me--in the spirit of
    Kelly)"
  created: '2005-10-14 19:42:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "William, sorry, I thought it was more recent than the last 2000 years! ha!
    Boy is my face red! Actually, was there ANY period in which there was no word
    space? In the case of Chinese there is still no 'word space' in the sense that
    we know it. Peter's ideas about bouma seemed related to this space.... But your
    right. It's in-between. Not here nor there. The whole idea of bouma could be reduced
    to western language only but I am not sure thats a good or healthy idea. \r\n\r\nPeter,
    I don't know where this leaves us. The second of the two responses makes sense
    to me. Your saying that it isn't the spacing in a litteral sense but rather the
    in the mental 'parsing' of signs. This make sense. To me anyway. \r\n\r\nThe first
    response seems less clear. When you have time to elaborate please do. I suspect
    that actually the same kind of idea applies - it's a question of how you parse
    the signs. I suspect that you & I might do it one one way. If the arabic speaker/reader
    does it that way is another sort of question. I am a very visual thinker. I may
    be suffeering from an over reliance on that outlook. Hence my camera-centric idea
    about visual focus with the attendant suggestion that moving the camera/eye perspective
    back to bring more of the parsable signs in is possible. And that that would accomplish
    a white boundedness. But you are saying that I am fixating on the wrong issue
    \ - no? I am still not sure where you would redirect focus however. Looking foreward."
  created: '2005-10-15 08:41:06'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, to talk sensibly about chinese / japanese and arabetic scripts I need
    to know more about them. The bouma issue is about how independant sense-units
    are coded and processed in reading of continuous texts. In reading of texts arabetic
    scripts it seems intuitve that what I have called 'componential abstraction' does
    not occur, except in learning the building blocks of the script. What I call componential
    abstraction is often called 'slot coding' in connectionist models of reading.
    Kevin Larson's model relies on slot-coding. Similarly in chinese / japanese scripts.
    While a character might contain a semantic radical and a phonetic component, I
    would guess that slot-coding of these components does not occur in practiced readers.\r\n\r\nI
    responded: \"Don\u2019t think white boundedness; think: map\" because I felt we
    were getting hung up on it when trying to extend the bouma concept to chinese
    / japanese and arabetic scripts, and that when you heard 'bounded', this became
    'bounded by white', which an enclosed map is, but that's not the point. The point
    is that there is a more or less definite point at which the shape-map ends. If
    a word in a western script is like and island, a word in chinese / japanese scripts
    is more like a delta and a word in arabetic scripts is more like an archipelago
    with an isthmus-like core.\r\n\r\nIn an assimilated arabetic script, certainly
    the central isthmus is bounded by white, but the sense of boundedness in the sense
    of the entire complex of isthmus and teeth having a definite boundry at the top
    and bottom is less strong than in western alphabetic scripts. Yet there is a strong
    sense of boundedness left and right. So bounded map applies to arabetic scripts
    in a different way. The consistancy of the white is also different. Except at
    the extremities it is not strongly contained, or contained to the point of saliency
    or 'psycho-activity', so it is hard to get a strong sense of a strong pattern
    of salient whites. There is some pooling of whites in the wells of the main form,
    but I suspect this is less tuned-to in the visual cortex than the marked peak
    pattern.\r\n\r\nThe point is that if we want to have a 'wholistically-skewed'
    term or replacement for 'gestalt' that goes beyond 'envelope structure' or 'raw
    pattern of neutral, ascending and descending characters' to help us talk about
    how linguistic sense units might be perceptually processed in reading, we might
    need to specify it slightly differently for different scripts. \r\n\r\nThere is
    a significant gain in exploring this applicability to other scripts, because it
    forces us to get clear(er) about the different <em>optical grammars</em> of different
    script systems.\r\n\r\nIt seems that the evolutionary dynamic subtending the move
    into the future of every script system is toward an optical grammer where unitization
    of subcomponents at an independant sense-unit (= word) level is facilitated, bouma-distinctiveness
    optimized and (letter-recognitional) componential abstraction superceded."
  created: '2005-10-15 14:54:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Right. This is where you seem going - the difference between a directly observeable
    optical form the visual grammer of that form, and the mental parsing of those
    signs. Obviously they relate to each other in some strong ways. But the maybe
    point of bouma is perhaps their intersection. Would it be fair to characterize
    bouma then as a visual unit of meaning mentaly parsed from a larger set of signs?
    I like this better because it focuses on the parsing first & then the visual.
    The unit is something you can map out on the signs & point to but is not the same
    as the signs - nor is it the same as the mental process alone. I imagine I may
    well made a mess of this - but what do you think? \r\n\r\nIf there is anything
    here in this then the advantage of it would be that it would be a definition that
    was less culturally bound that the one being used before. I find that more satisfying.
    \r\n\r\nI have to acknowlege that there is probably a powerful utility in having
    language specific terms. I guess am keen on bouma not being one of these for some
    reason. This despite the fact that I see now what your mean by cultuarl differences
    in a textual saliency map. My sense of the word had been so caught up with a visual
    definition up until recently that I found the idea of using bouma for western
    texts kind of sad. It seems lile a universal term is a more powerful term too...
    \r\n\r\nLike the term 'plural'. No matter how indicated in a given language -
    and it varies alot; plural is still a useful concept - even if you are comparing
    a language which specifies kinds or flavors of plural with great specificity to
    one which goes: One, two, three, four, five - lots/much/many. Still, we are talking
    'plural'.\r\n\r\nYour comments about the 'point of saliency' seem skewed in favor
    of the utility of condensed forms. Why should that be? Isn't bouma the tied to
    the parsing event  - rather than the relative ease or lack threof in the parsing
    process? \r\n\r\nThat is why I am not sure why the shape of a map - island, delta,
    or peninsula is important. Well, that's not quite what I mean - I mean maybe you
    can characterize them as having visual differences and probable attendant differences
    in the mental processing/parsing structures - but I keep imagining that within
    this diversity might be a kind common aspect to the parsing and that maybe this
    might be called bouma. It just seems like that has more utility than drawing a
    line in the cultural sand. Oh well, I am repeating myself now.\r\n\r\nCheers!\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-16 10:01:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Also would you elaborate about 'componential abstraction' or \u2018slot coding\u2019?
    Would be the act of consciously recognizing first a part of a word or a radical
    within a chinese glyph as part of the reading process?\r\n\r\nAbout 'bounded'
    - Are you saying that because western texts have such regular or predictable upper
    & lower shapes compared to arabic that the sense of a predicatble boundry is stronger
    and that the sense of boundedness comes from that predictability? If so I start
    to see that - but I wonder if that sense isn't just the product of unfamiliarity
    with the forms... Still, you may have a point."
  created: '2005-10-16 10:10:22'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, \r\n1. Yes. Slot coding is recognizing the part first--or better, activating
    a (so-called) detector neuron for the part first--but it is not done consciously
    in reading, it is done automatically & subliminally (according to its proponents).
    I think it is not done period when encountering familiar words during immersive
    reading. \r\n\r\n2. My comments in my previous post were to explore the applicability
    of the bouma-concept to other script systems, not to raise doubts about its applicability
    as I had done earlier in relation to arabetic scripts (pardon the about face).
    One of the things I was trying to show is that such an exploration promotes a
    more intimate knowledge of what the visual cortex relies on optical-grammatically
    in other scripts compared to the western script. Does it rely on the white in
    quite the same way? \r\n\r\nIn arabetic scripts 'bound(ed)ness' is still a usefull
    construct (thinking about them in terms of their boundedness as wholes is a useful
    exercise), but words in arabetic scripts are bound or bounded in a different sense
    than words in western scripts. Bound by different mechanisms? The main real benefit
    to the concept is to force us to see words (parsed / parsable and parcelled sense
    units) in non-simplistic <em>visual-figural / integral-unit / object-like</em>
    terms rather than <em>abstract-orthographic aggregate</em> terms.\r\n\r\nTry to
    think of parsing / parcelling etc., in perceptual processing terms, not as 'mental'
    operations. That's the problem with many studies of reading: reading is seen as
    a chiefly mental cognitive process with a quite straightforward and relatively
    minor perceptual processing compontent. I say that in studies of reading the perceptual
    processing component is massively misunderstood. There are some signs that this
    is changing.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-16 14:30:43'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, I'm struggling to figure out how best to reply to your main comment
    above about characterization. I don't want to say what a bouma <em>is</em> just
    <em>how I want to use the term</em>.\r\n\r\nEssentially I'm still stuck on 'bounded/bound
    map,' skewing my characterization of what it's a bounded/bound map of, differently
    for different script systems. \"Visual unit of meaning mentally parsed from a
    larger set of signs?\" doesn't get me where I need to be when talking about response
    bias and mediating agents in visual wordform resolution in reading. It talks about
    what is the object-correlate of the response bias (a sense-tagged visual unit),
    but not about what the visual cortex relies on to mediate recognition--the mediating
    agents in their pattern. For my purposes of grounding typographical practice in
    percptual mechanics I need more from the term (or another term)"
  created: '2005-10-16 15:37:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Type design, typography and our reading-ware treat words in text visually
    as bounded maps of visual (con)figural \u2018stuff\u2019 to be process as a whole,
    not first and foremost linguistically as letters with assigned orthographic identities
    arranged in an agreed-to order to be processed bit by bit. \u201CThe natural form
    of reading is not by spelling or syllabification, but by grasping word wholes,
    i.e., word forms or configurations, constituting the units of perception in reading.\"
    \r\n\r\nWhere Latin reading is concenred, this is a fantasy theory, so this fantasy
    definition can only do more real harm than fantasy good."
  created: '2005-10-17 12:59:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "David, when you design letters is your focus on shape, and how shapes interact,
    interlock or cohere in a word setting, or is your focus on phonetic assignments
    and spelling conventions? And what is a rhythmic word image important for if it
    is not fundamental to efficient processing in the visual cortex?\r\n\r\nThe neurological
    processes underlying perceptual processing in reading are indeed remarkable. I
    think my proposals are imaginative and fit the data. However, my proposals are
    incommensurate with current patterns of data-interpretation and appear counterintuitive
    when phenomena at the retinal, post-retinal and neuroanatomical level are not
    adaquately considered.\r\n\r\nThat you think of my proposals as fantasy indicates
    that I need to work harder to make them compelling, and that I need to work harder
    to make the alternatives seem awkward, ill-conceived or not explanatory enough."
  created: '2005-10-17 15:59:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's notable that David (not unlike many others in his -rarified- category)\r\nhas
    however also rejected the Parallel-Letterwise model. I have to wonder:\r\nWhat's
    in between? So more discourse is indeed needed.\r\n\r\n> I need to work harder\r\n\r\nBut
    no matter how hard we work at this, the reality remains that in order to make
    fonts that people like and people buy you don't need to really know how reading
    works. Anecdotal experience is sufficient for that. Note how all those nice fonts
    were made before Javal.\r\n\r\nThis is a classic case of mainstream versus pushy
    - and both have a place - it's just a matter of striking a good balance, which
    is entirely dependend on the individuals in question and the circumstances at
    hand.\r\n\r\nFantasy is relative - but so is Quality.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-17 17:49:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I think there are different levels, or degrees, of observation with which
    we can observe Latin text-shapes in order to recognize them, thereby decoding
    their meaning.\r\n\r\n1. the shape of phrases\r\n2. the shape of words\r\n3. the
    shape of phonetic or syllabic letter groups within words\r\n4. the shape of individual
    letters\r\n5. the shape of letter parts\r\n\r\nIn fluent reading, we start from
    the top, doing only as much as is necessary to get the meaning, inferring the
    rest.\r\nThe levels have been learned from the bottom up, a hierarchy of skills.\r\nOn
    any given day, we may proceed differently through the levels, or do so on rereading.\r\n\r\nIn
    type design, the designer pays attention to making all these levels of recognition
    as clear as possible, because they are all relevant to the process of reading.
    So although the designer works on discrete letters (level 4), the context of the
    other levels is always in play.\r\n\r\nI think that boumas are dynamic visual
    constructs created by the viewer, prefigurations of what one expects to see next.
    The process of seeing/reading involves the creation of successions of boumas,
    from level 1 down, each bouma collapsing at the point of closure when meaning
    is deduced.\r\n\r\nBoumas are flexible shapes, envelopes, or conceptualized graphic
    relationships which are fitted over, and matched against perceptual data. They
    are a library (or toolbox) of patterns which one has learned.\r\n\r\nTypographers
    teach themselves the bouma of good letterspacing, aka even color; this is a non-linguistic
    way of reading text, a meta-level of control.\r\n\r\nA bouma is a specific kind
    of gestalt phenomenon.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-17 19:13:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> boumas are ... created by the viewer ...\r\n\r\nPlease find another term
    for that idea.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-17 19:22:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Hrant, What do you think of a non-western centric bouma definition? Worth
    a shot or a waste of time? \r\n\r\nPeter, do you do experiments/studies too? I
    could look this up I suppose but asking you is simpler & probably more accurate.
    \r\n\r\nNick - nice to see you on the thread. Would you care to contrast your
    idea in more detail with Peter's and or Hrant's?\r\n\r\nDavid, I think if you
    are interested in this you have to have a hypothosis & that this might well be
    fantasy - but that is a risk you run when doing research. That much is fair isn't
    it?\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-17 21:53:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the ideal definition of \"bouma\" would\r\nin fact be independent
    of writing system.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-17 22:03:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Eben, the only experiments I do are with fourier transforms. I haven't published
    anything on reading other than the <em>Typo#13</em> text.\r\n\r\nNick, the more
    I read your post the more I like it. \r\nWhile I've tried to use the bouma / bounded
    map concept to help me to formulate a more robust notion of word shape than current
    cognitive-science usage promotes, the idea of dynamic [prefigurative] visual constructs
    [...] from level 1 down [...] each collapsing at the point of closure [...] is
    massively appealling.\r\n\r\nReading involves a dynamic anticipatory visual indexing
    of parafoveally available text at the phrasal and word level, and upon foveation
    of the parafoveally indexed items, sometimes involves tokenization to the phonetic
    / syllabic or letter level--with letter-part discrimination as a last reort--to
    promote visual wordform resolutional closure.\r\n\r\nIf the core idea in the bouma-concept
    is visual information maps, it could be useful to distinguish word-maps, phrasal
    maps, sub-word maps.\r\n\r\nHrant, I agree. Hence my use of 'bounded map'; what
    is being argued here are basic principles of object perception and how they apply
    to perceptual processing in reading.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-17 23:19:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Reading involves a dynamic anticipatory visual indexing\r\n\r\nYes, but
    it arises from the boumas at hand; the probability-mapping of a bouma to an actual
    letter cluster is certainly guided by contextual expectation*, but the reader
    doesn't <cite>create</cite> anything in advance - that would be massively inefficient,
    and is not the type of thing the subconscious bothers with. Yes, we decide what
    a bouma is based on all the boumas we've deciphered before, but saying the reader
    creates boumas is utterly confusing.\r\n\r\n* Better than \"anticipation\".\r\n\r\nAlso:
    Anything beyond what's visible in a single fixation (e.g. entire phrases) is moot
    (I mean at the perceptual level).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-17 23:27:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">but the reader doesn\u2019t create anything in advance\r\n\r\nYou're right,
    I got the creation in the wrong place. Dynamic boumas aren't created on the fly
    from scratch during reading.\r\n\r\nThey are originally created when one learns
    to read. They are memorized \"patterns\" (in the sense of templates) which may
    later be matched against perceptual data during reading.\r\n\r\nThey are created,
    in as much as learning is a creative process with personal and cultural overtones,
    and in as much as one makes a decision to create a useful memory.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 00:26:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, much better, but: we don't decide to create memories.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 01:17:32'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, about my use of 'anticipatory': the visual indexing of parafoveally
    available text at the phrasal and word level bears on what lies ahead in the visual
    stream. So it is anticipatory. Indexing what lies ahead (for subsequent foveal
    attention) and triggering grammatical expectations or determining their precise
    semantic loads are different things, though they work together. Indexing what
    lies ahead requires compiling ensemble statistics; triggering down-stream expectations
    requires a visual wordform resolutional event; connecting to the semantic load
    of the indexed items--word or phrase--requires a new fixation and a new visual
    wordform-resolutional event down-stream.\r\n\r\nI'm dubious about your mootness
    claim: entire grammatical phrases fall within visual parafoveal range at every
    line-of-type-medial fixation."
  created: '2005-10-18 03:05:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> entire grammatical phrases fall within visual parafoveal range\r\n\r\n1)
    What do you mean by \"phrase\"?\r\n2) In the best case still only really short
    ones.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 03:58:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>In fluent reading, we start from the top, doing only as much as
    is necessary to get the meaning, inferring the rest.</em>\r\n\r\nI find this sentence
    very problematic, because I'm not sure that I understand what you mean by 'meaning'.
    This could be taken to imply that we 'get meaning' somehow independently of 'getting
    the text', and that we only get as much of the text as we need to get the meaning
    in 'fluent reading'. Something like this might be true of informational texts
    such as manuals, but we are more likely to be skimming the text in such cases
    than engaging in what I would think of as fluent reading, or immersive reading
    to use Hrant's phrase. Most of the time when I am reading -- novels, non-fiction
    works, journal articles, even quite a lot of newspaper content -- I am not getting
    meaning independent of text: the text <em>is</em> the meaning that I am getting.
    I am 'getting' arrangements of clauses, phrases, sentences, parapraphs, etc.,
    not a kind of on-the-fly paraphrase of the meaning of these arrangements."
  created: '2005-10-18 04:14:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">we don\u2019t decide to create memories.\r\n\r\nYes we do.\r\nWe don't learn
    to read and write in a passive way, we actively train, forcing ourselves to memorize
    shapes, to imprint these ways of accessing information into the core of our being,
    as habits. Each one of us creates our own reading technique through intense practice,
    intellectual athletes.\r\n\r\n>I\u2019m not sure that I understand what you mean
    by \u2018meaning\u2019. \r\n\r\nIt's it in relation to the level at which text
    is accessed. User defined.\r\nIf a reader is skimming sentences in a mostly parafoveal
    blur, they're getting enough meaning (on their criteria) to not ponder every word.\r\nThey
    may go back later, rereading, and sharply fixate on individual words.\r\nWhere
    does that fit in the reading lab scenario?\r\nWhat is the reader \"seeing\" when
    the words were long ago recognized and decoded, but reading continues and the
    meaning is still emerging?   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 06:27:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, I took Nick's <em>[i]n fluent reading, we start from the top, doing
    only as much as is necessary to get the meaning, inferring the rest</em> somewhat
    differently. I took Nick to be evoking a kind of probability summation mechanism
    in the visual cortex, where only enough processing of blacks and white--in their
    pattern--to promote sense-following need occur. And that this can happen at the
    phrasal level. Because at the bouma level words and phrases are overdetermined,
    confidence about identity works on the 'doing only as much as necessary' or selective
    processing principle. With wordform resolutional confidence comes connection with
    sense, often even on a phrasal level, because a location in sense- or meaning-space
    is encapsulated with each boumatic code, and bouma supercodes at a phrasal level
    might also exist.\r\n\r\nHrant, by phrase, I mean short strings of words, often
    two to three items in length. Interestingly, my Random house tells me that in
    Rhetoric a phrase is \"a word or group of spoken words that is perceived momentarily
    as a meaningful unit\". So a bouma string can have a single location in meaning-space
    encapsulated with it.\r\n\r\nNick, your way of speaking sometimes makes the processes
    you describes sound hyper-deliberative. I am reading your sentences as if that's
    not what you have in mind. "
  created: '2005-10-18 13:41:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Each one of us creates our own reading technique\r\n\r\nEssentially: no.
    The necessities and mechanics of reading end up overpowering any personal variances,
    and we almost all end up reading pretty much the same way. The only thing that
    varying one's way of learning to read does is alter the point at which it \"clicks\"
    (which normally happens about age 10). All those teachers teaching us how to read
    are basically nannies, not shepherds.\r\n\r\n> If a reader is skimming sentences
    in a mostly parafoveal blur, they\u2019re\r\n> getting enough meaning (on their
    criteria) to not ponder every word.\r\n\r\nThat's not reading (in the sense of
    the word useful to us).\r\n\r\nHowever, I'm glad to see you're in fact a close
    subscriber\r\nof my own theory of reading, at least in relation to Kevin.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 15:58:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">The necessities and mechanics of reading end up overpowering any personal
    variances,\r\n\r\nIn my mind, I was comparing it to my backhand stroke. Yes, it's
    identifiable as a backhand stroke similar to other people's, and it intercepts
    the ball and redirects it in a way similar to other people's backhands, but I've
    spent a lot of time practising it and training/programming myself to get it working
    \"automatically\", and in that sense I've created my backhand stroke, because
    I wasn't born with it. Also, everyone's backhand has their own style, from Federer
    on down.\r\n\r\n>That\u2019s not reading (in the sense of the word useful to us).\r\n\r\nNo,
    but the reader's decision on how much meaning to extract from a piece of text
    is their decision, whether or not it's an amount that you consider substantial
    enough to constitute proper reading.\r\n\r\n > you\u2019re in fact a close subscriber
    of my own theory of reading,\r\n\r\nI wouldn't say that I subscribe to your theory.
    My theory may be similar in many respects,  and makes use of the bouma concept
    you have advanced (although not perhaps in the way you had intended, after all
    it IS an evolving concept) but it's something I figured out for myself, from a
    general, unvoiced understanding I've had for a long time. Certainly, Typophile
    threads have focused my thought, though not as much as yours or Peter's. In fact
    the idea of \"as much as is necessary for recognition to occur\" came from a John
    Hudson comment sometime last year, which struck a chord with me. "
  created: '2005-10-18 16:30:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I was comparing it to my backhand stroke.\r\n\r\nMisleading, because one
    is largely conscious and the other not. A much more pertinent tennis analogy is
    the one I made in my Typo13 article: how expert tennis players use the parafovea
    to place their hits, while beginners don't.\r\n\r\n> the reader\u2019s decision
    on how much meaning to\r\n> extract from a piece of text is their decision\r\n\r\nYes,
    they could even decide to read a book held upside down.\r\nBut we need to focus
    a bit.\r\n\r\n> not perhaps in the way you had intended\r\n\r\nActually, it's
    been pretty much on track.  :-)\r\n\r\nThe one thing that's fluctuated though
    is the\r\nrelative importance of external versus total White.\r\n\r\n> Typophile
    threads have focused my thought\r\n\r\nExactly. You're welcome.\r\n\r\nBut it's
    quite important to realize that there's still a limit to how much you can advance
    your understanding of reading by simply thinking about your necessarily limited
    personal experience, without a serious and persistent study of empirical research
    and third-party analysis and experience. For example the way you throw away Kevin's
    entire corpus of work and references is too romantic, too subjective, to help
    you <cite>advance</cite> as opposed to merely clarify. To really understand, you
    must assimilate, not discard.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 17:49:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Nick, your way of speaking sometimes makes the processes you describes sound
    hyper-deliberative. I am reading your sentences as if that\u2019s not what you
    have in mind.\r\n\r\nIt's all those years I spent writing ad copy.\r\nBTW, I like
    the way you paraphrased me.\r\nActually, I don't believe that we are somehow absent
    from our perceptual apparatus, so to personalize reflex reactions is exactly what
    I have in mind. Quantum entanglement, dude.\r\n\r\nThinking of early eye-movement
    experiments (as seen in big ol' Life magazine), where male and female are shown
    the same old master painting, and their eye-fixations are marked like bullet holes,
    the men's targetting the Madonna's bosom, I would expect there is a fair amount
    of reflex, subconscious influence on saccadic eye movement. \r\n\r\nIf deliberative
    means conscious, then the reading process is obviously not that.\r\nThe difficulty
    is that deliberation suggests a personal, wilful engagement -- but a reflex reaction
    made by the reader's subconscious perceptual apparatus is equally personal and
    decisive.\r\nReading is a process based on personal decision making. The questions
    that must be decided are:\r\n\r\n1. When to look somewhere else.\r\n2. Where to
    look next.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-10-18 18:01:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> to personalize reflex reactions is exactly what I have in mind.\r\n\r\nThis
    for example is exactly something you wouldn't believe if you were more emprically
    inclined. Which is not the same as claiming we're entirely absent.\r\n\r\nNever
    forget: we're animals.\r\n\r\n> male and female are shown the same old master
    painting\r\n\r\nEntirely too conscious.\r\n\r\n> Reading is a process based on
    personal decision making.\r\n\r\nNot entirely, not even mostly. At least not\r\nthe
    way you seem to using \"decision making\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 18:10:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">But it\u2019s quite important to realize that there\u2019s still a limit
    to how much you can advance your understanding of reading by simply thinking about
    your necessarily limited personal experience, without a serious and persistent
    study of empirical research and third-party analysis and experience. For example
    the way you throw away Kevin\u2019s entire corpus of work and references is too
    romantic, too subjective, to help you advance as opposed to merely clarify. To
    really understand, you must assimilate, not discard.\r\n\r\nI didn't return to
    Typophile to be lectured by you on my faults and told how I should improve myself."
  created: '2005-10-18 18:15:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When a WRBWWRM-er starts lecturing me on readability, and which happens to
    be something I've studied intently, in its many facets (not just my personal introspection)
    for 7 years, I can get a bit testy, sorry. But really, don't come and go based
    on me, please.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 18:26:40'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: In my opinion, the patterns of regularity are pervasive, but each of us inhabits
    them differently. Indeterminacy reaches deep inside the visual cortex. (I would
    elaborate but a few deadlines are pressing.)
  created: '2005-10-18 18:36:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "They are all theories until thoroughly tested, and even then there is room
    for doubt. Engaged skepticism is what I suggest is best.\r\n\r\n> Reading is a
    process based on personal decision making.\r\n\r\nWe could also be talking about
    immersive reading and the steps that precede it. I think Hrant is talking about
    immersiuve reading exclusively - like he talks about text fonts exclusively. Nick,
    I imagine ( perhaps wrongly ) that you may be refering to pre-immersive reading.\r\n\r\nPeter,
    it sounds like you are saying that reading occurs differently in different people
    like sports performance, speaking ability etc.  Is that what you mean?"
  created: '2005-10-18 19:13:45'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'Eben, the processing, response bias, lateral integration, probability summation
    mechanisms, in the visual cortex, retina and thymus especially, are reliable and
    stable, the same in principle (but perhaps tuned slightly differently) to a very
    high degree of detail across all readers of a given script, if their skill levels
    are commensurate, but the mechanisms are not deterministic.  The higher up we
    get into the cerebral cortex, that is at the sense-following end, the clearer
    individual differences emerge. At least, so I think (and so most research scientists
    assume: it is implicit in how they sum data).'
  created: '2005-10-18 19:39:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Right, so you have common mechanisms at work, but individuals reading the
    same text will vary anyway, probably depending on time of day, how long ago they
    ate, if they have been drinking and if they are interested in the text or not.
    And that is just the individual - not the environment. Thinking about all these
    potential sources of 'noise' is interesting.
  created: '2005-10-18 20:07:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "They do vary in terms of performace, but not the immersive mechanics.\r\nI'm
    talking about normal adult readers here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 20:41:00'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Peter Enneson\" wrote on 10/19/05 4:20 PM:\r\n\r\n> I was disappointed
    that you did not follow up \r\n> on my reply.\r\n\r\n\r\n\"If the core idea in
    the bouma-concept is visual information maps, it could be useful to distinguish
    word-maps, phrasal maps, sub-word maps.\"\r\n\r\n...letter maps?\r\n\r\nI think,
    there is enough anecdotal evidence to posit that word shape reading might be a
    part of immersed reading practice by the average reader, but it is not the central
    mechanism of the practice. What is this anecdotal evidence? 1. German words are
    much longer than, say, English words. To suggest that one tiny but interconnected
    slice of the gene pool is either better at reading because they can parse longawordenfrases,
    or   s l o w e r at it as a result of longawordenfrases, does not fit with my
    perception of things like actual German reading capabilities or genetics. 2.    1,000
    words are added to our language every day? Okay, so it's 50,000, 300?. Regardless
    of that number, Each one of Us reads new words every day that we did not know
    the day before,  and from the age we start reading, until we drop it. Now this
    should tell you something, NO?. Okay, so the number of our new words is a series
    of curves and or spikes throughout our lives, but still, it is constantly required
    of us to learn to read new names, at least. 3.     What is most certainly \"read\"
    as a word map? I always start with what is even anecdotally certain: I is and
    a are all for sure. . Methahydrodrogeonousticity, probably not ;)  .The Kanji
    for tree(s) is/are, for bright is not, but much of Kanji is recognized by word
    shape, from the center to the periphery of the glyph, as it was 'splained to me,
    but as has been denied here. \r\n\r\nI think, the universal mechanism is divided
    into main two parts with an interface to span them. I think the parsing part is
    the same across all genes, and there's a second I/O part that varies by script
    and must, along with the interface, be developed per reader, per language. Latin
    readers share some common sub-parts (many of which are also shared with Hebrew
    and Arabic readers), like word shape recognition, and what follows. Following
    along lines of parts ( x-ht, baseline, cap ht. and descender ), tossing aside
    to the parser interface the short and medium length known words, (part sequences),
    marks and spaces and clutching the rails ever so slightly when we don't know the
    part sequences, then storing (or not) the new stuff, tossing it to the parser
    on the way and then there's a <CR> and we go for another line. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-20 15:21:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "David, FYI, none of us believe in the <cite>whole-word</cite> model.\r\n\r\n>
    \u2026letter maps?\r\n\r\nYes, in fact. Which is why my reading model includes
    single letters as special-case boumas (foveal ones).\r\n\r\n> word shape reading
    might be a part of immersed reading practice by the average reader\r\n\r\nAnd
    when you go a little further, you realize that it's not whole words, it's letter-clusters.\r\n\r\n>
    but it is not the central mechanism of the practice.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure what
    \"central\" is. The point I for one try to make is simply that <cite>sometimes</cite>
    (and I suspect quite often) letters bind into larger units. This is all one needs
    to accept to design differently.\r\n\r\n> s l o w e r at it\r\n\r\nI actually
    think they are slower at it. But this stuff being in the subconscious realm:\r\n1)
    It's much harder to measure.\r\n2) It cannot be consciously gauged.\r\n\r\nPlus
    it's not like it's 50% slower or anything.\r\n\r\n> Each one of Us reads new words
    every day\r\n\r\nNot really.\r\nAnd anyway, that clearly doesn't preclude letter-cluster
    boumas.\r\n\r\n> What is most certainly \u201Cread\u201D as a word map?\r\n\r\nAccording
    to Taylor & Taylor, about 60 words that are short and frequent.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to me:\r\n1) That's not the point - the point is letter-clusters.\r\n2) There's
    a lot more that have a fainter presence, but because of that they don't \"register\"
    clearly.\r\n\r\n> much of Kanji is recognized by word shape\r\n\r\nYes. And Chinese
    are still humans.\r\n\r\n> the universal mechanism is divided into main two parts
    with an interface to span them. \r\n\r\nThis is not implausible (although I'm
    a bit hazy on your description).\r\nBut it does not preclude boumas.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nMy
    objective is really quite simple, for now: get people to realize  that letters
    bind into larger wholes, that the PL model is only half the story. It seems you
    don't think this is fantasy after all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-20 17:59:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"My objective is really quite simple, for now: get people to realize that
    letters bind into larger wholes\"\r\n\r\nI'm sold, or I would not fit so carefully
    after so carefuly drawing. But I don't think you'll succeed in your objective
    by calling it a bounded, bounding, map, bounding map, bou, bom, bmap, bouna or
    bouma, applied to the reading of Latin script, among others. This term, implies,
    and I have seen illlustrations that seem to indicate, that the comprehension of
    words is related to this word-form shape that's implied by the boundish name.\r\n\r\nMy
    point was that reading utterly is an process, divided into tasks that eventually,
    sure, lead to all the letter groups converted to words, but the process does not
    involve a \"blurry, para-foveal form of a word is what we rely on the most; and
    that\u2019s in fact the bouma\"....stage, beyond a few letters at a time. With
    all due respect."
  created: '2005-10-21 21:50:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This term, implies, and I have seen illlustrations that seem\r\n> to indicate,
    that the comprehension of words is related to\r\n> this word-form shape that\u2019s
    implied by the boundish name.\r\n\r\nI'm pretty sure I don't get it.\r\nAnd what
    illustrations, exactly?\r\n\r\n> \u201Cblurry, para-foveal form of a word is what
    we\r\n> rely on the most; and that\u2019s in fact the bouma\u201D\r\n\r\nI hope
    that's an old one of mine, because it's sloppy - to the point of inaccuracy. On
    the other hand, I do believe that boumas are recognized in the parafovea, and
    sometimes quite deep in there, and the deeper the blurrier.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-21 22:01:44'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "David, I'm trying to get a handle on your 'central meachanism.\" I take you
    to be saying that it is generalizable across at least Hebrew, Latin, Arabetic
    and Chinese / Japanese scripts.\r\n\r\nYou also say the mechanism is divided into
    two main parts, a parsing part, and an I/O part with an interface to span them.
    \r\n\r\n1) Is your 'parsing' similar to my tokenization? Or is it similar to my
    indexing? On my view indexing occurs relative to material eccentric to the form
    resolving field, and tokenization to (indexed) material brought within the form
    resolving field.\r\n2) What does I/O mean?\r\n3) Is your objection to the bouma
    notion that Hrant's model of reading is wrong about the part played by the parafovea
    (was 'parafoveal preview': see below) in immersive reading?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-10-22 03:36:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Hrant\u2019s model of reading is wrong about\r\n> the part played by \u2018parafoveal
    preview\u2019\r\n\r\nReal quick: this is confusing, because it makes it sound\r\nlike
    I think the parafovea merely plays a \"preview\" role.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-22 05:35:57'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Hrant, I edited my post. See above.
  created: '2005-10-22 13:47:39'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "David, it my help you to know I don't share Hrant's views about bouma recognition
    in the parafovea. Hrant's \u201Cprimary \u2018hidden core\u2019 of reading,\u201D
    is \u201C a mechanism [...] that gains efficiency by taking \u2018educated guesses\u2019
    at hazy clusters of letters some depth into the parafovea.\u201D (Typo#13)\r\n\r\nEssentially
    my view is that\r\n1) visual wordform resolutional closure requires processing
    in the parvocellular stream (= the stream foveal retinal impulses project to)
    of items indexed in the magnocellular stream (= the stream parafoveal retinal
    impulses project to) during a prior fixation.\r\n2) processing of known words
    in the parvocellular stream does not involve componential abstraction / letter
    specific slot-coding (hence the parallel letter recognition model does not rule
    in foveal vision when known words are the object of perceptual attention).[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: John Hudson
      picture: 110397
    body: Peter, I agree with 1, but wonder on what basis you claim 2? I can actually
      understand why Hrant disagrees with the parallel letter recognition model, because
      he believes that recognition, and not just indexing, takes place in the parafovea.
      But if you believe that recognition is essentially foveal, what makes you reject
      the parallel letter recognition model as that mechanism of recognition? For
      the benefit of other Typophile readers, it might be good to fill in the space
      between 1 and 2.
    created: '2005-10-22 18:23:13'
  created: '2005-10-22 17:59:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, you ask what makes me reject the parallel letter recognition model.\r\n\r\nThe
    background to my rejection is Gerrit Noordzij's insistance that the pivotal events
    in western writing are the invention of the word and the consolidation of the
    word image. Statements like: \"The word is the smallest organic unit in writing.
    Whatever can be said about a letter or the stroke must be said with one eye on
    the word. In this book I pull apart the organism, but only to be able to make
    the word. (<em>The Stroke</em>, page 13)\r\n\r\nSo I am predisposed to reject
    it. As I said in my <em>Typo 13</em> contribution, \"the parallel letter recognition
    model of word recognition is generally incongruent or out of step with the express
    attunements and obsessions of type involved practioners.\" What I had in mind
    when I wrote that was Gerrit Noordzij's \"one eye on the word\"  and related comments.\r\n\r\nIn
    my <em>Typo</em> article I presented four other reasons for rejecting the parallel
    letter recognition model of word recognition: It is a) too rigorously biased toward
    the black of the letter and abstract-letter-identity representation, b) haunted
    by the specter of combinatorial explosion and computational overload, c) logistically
    incommensurate with the well-documented logic of eye movements, d) underestimating
    of the demonstrable plasticity of functional anatomy at the visual and cerebral
    cortex level.\r\n\r\nIn my <em>Typo</em> article I also tried to suggest that
    Kevin Larson's attack on the word-shape hypothesis suffered from an inadequate
    formalization of the notion of word shape. (The argument I try to make in this
    thread is that the bouma / bounded map concept has the ability to provide a more
    adequate formalization of the notion of word shape.)\r\n\r\nFurthermore, my skepticism
    is fed by reading statements from prominant  neuroscientists to the effect that
    \"most cognitive psychological coding schemes are formal and detached from neuroscience.\"
    (Laurent Cohen, July 2005). (This is only partially true for Kevin Larson's model.)
    Cohen himself presents a parallel letter recognition-style model but than states.
    \"For simplicity, we only included feedforward connections [...] however feedback
    <em>and lateral connections</em> are numerous in the visual system <em> and probably
    contribute to shaping the neuron's receptive field</em>.\" [my emphasis] This
    statement, combined with, for example Wilson S. Geisler and Boaz J. Super's 2000
    paper \"Perceptual Organization of Two-Dimensional Patterns\" and others like
    it, as well as papers on processing protocols in the visual cortex and Herman
    Bouma's 1970s signalling of the importance of lateral or contextual interference
    effects, and Denis Pelli's work on spatially frequency channels for reading convince
    me that, when Kevin Larson says in his Typo contribution that the details of processing
    at the feature detection level are not critical for the purposes of his  argument,
    he is wrong.\r\n\r\nAnother recent source of my deepening skepticism is Tali Bitan
    et. al.'s recent \"Effects of alphabeticity, practice and type of instruction
    on reading an artificial script: an fMRI study.\" I quote a representative sentence
    from the abstract: \"These results indicate the involvement of the left posterior
    IFG in letter decoding, and suggest that reading of explicitly well-trained words
    did not rely on letter decoding, while in implicitly trained words letter decoding
    persisted into later stages.\"\r\n\r\nFinally, for now, a model of reading that
    uses lateral binding into unitary bounded maps at the visual encoding level and
    the inhibition of segmentation that comes with it (rather than the simple fact
    of regular letter combinations), to explain the Word Superiority Effect, might
    better explain why the effect exists at all.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-10-22 21:53:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Thanks for that summary, Peter. I was concerned that your response to David
    was too concise to enable the discussion to move very far.\r\n\r\nWith regard
    to the 'express attunements and obsessions of type involved practioners', I don't
    find this in itself a reason to be skeptical of the parallel letter recognition
    model. I mean, we could easily be wrong. Type involved practitioners seem have
    had roughly the same set of attunements and obsessions before the identification
    of saccadic patterns in reading, and certainly before any scientific understanding
    of the reading process was widely understood. I doubt if our professionally developed
    instincts are totally incorrect, but they may well be responsive to cultural rather
    than mechanical aspects of reading. Indeed, given how broad our reading competency
    is, it seems likely that most typography is concerns with non-mechanical aspects
    of what we read and how we read it, e.g. 'invitingness'.\r\n\r\nRemember the distinction
    I made in Thessaloniki between the mechanics of reading and the experience of
    reading? Unless we have some kind of instinctive understanding of what science
    is still trying describe, it seems likely that most -- even all -- of our attunements
    and obsessions are involved with the experience of reading, rather than the mechanics.\r\n\r\nWords
    are a fundamental of all language, and what this means in terms of reading is
    that they are the natural unit of cognition regardless of the nature of the writing
    system. So a word is what the reader is trying to recognise, regardless of whether
    the writing system is alphabetic, syllabic, alphasyllabic, etc. or whether the
    writing system clearly bounds words with spaces or does not (some South East Asian
    writing systems, for instance, insert spaces between phrases rather than between
    words, which are not separately bounded). This is enough to explain an obsession
    with the word as the 'smallest organic unit in writing', although I'm not sure
    what Noordzij means by 'organic' and his obsession is with writing rather than
    with reading.\r\n\r\nBut the question of how we arrive at the identity of a word
    during reading is what remains unclear. Obviously, it must begin with the identification
    of the limits of the thing to be recognised, which is where the bounded map of
    the word itself, as separated by spaces in our writing system, makes its most
    obvious contribution. We see this collection of interlocking black and white shapes
    bounded by two white spaces, and we know this is the thing to be recognised. It
    seems very likely to me that, at that point, we work both upwards from the identified
    individual components -- stems, bowls and other 'architecture' defining discreet
    letters, feeding into iterative parallel guesses -- and downward from the word
    shape -- overall shape breaking down into sub-word clusters providing hints to
    the guesswork coming up in the other direction from the letter recognition. This
    is intensive parallel recognition: taking into account <em>all</em> information
    in the fovea (while simultaneously tracking word spaces in the parafovea and cueing
    the next fixation)."
  created: '2005-10-22 22:46:43'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, [written prior to your latest post] if you were to read the Wilson
    S. Geisler / Boaz J. Super text, I could explain that in my view transitive and
    non-transitive grouping of role architectural particulars and evoked form occur
    together, but not slot coding according to molarity. (I would also need to explain
    that I don't subscribe to a 'template matching to dedicated neurons model' of
    visual wordform resolution, but to a 'neural trace-signature recognition' model
    of visual wordform resolution.)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.cs.uic.edu/~super/PsychRev2000.pdf\r\n\r\nBecause
    transitive grouping happens it might seem that slot-coding has a chance. But because
    non-transitive grouping co-occurs, and is at least as strong processing doesn't
    go there, or need to. The transitive grouping part of the processing never sets
    off on its own and takes over in the recognition of known words. \r\n\r\nThe parallel
    letter recognition model does not distinguish between transitive grouping and
    slot coding / componential abstraction. I think we must.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-10-22 22:55:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "<em.>It seems likely that most--even all--of our attunements and obsessions
    are involved with the experience of reading, rather than the mechanics.</em>\r\n\r\nJohn,
    I am surprised that you would say this, given the availability of a grounded point
    of view that does not involve making that sort of disconnect between experience,
    attunements and mechanics.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-10-22 23:29:40'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"<em>upwards from the identified individual components \u2014 stems, bowls
    [...]</em>\"\r\n\r\nJohn, a suggestion:\r\nDon't think 'identified individual
    components'; think <em>map statistics compilation</em> when talking about what
    the visual cortex does with neural signals deriving (ultimately) from cluster-sets
    of letter parts. \r\n\r\nUpwards from components, yes. Map statistic compilation,
    yes. But nothing is <em>identified</em> \r\n\r\nIn (parvocellular-stream) map-statistics
    compilation, visual wordform resolution emerges.\r\n\r\nAll that needs to happen
    for us to be and stay visually and cognitively connected with what is written
    on the page is thus: \r\nmap statistics compilation of the material at and just
    around the point of fixation with reference to a perceptually indexed item (or
    set of items) needs to get underway and progress to a point of singularity. When
    this point of singularity is reached we experience a connectedness to sense and
    see the entire indexed item sharply as a 'letteral' unit.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-10-23 01:56:08'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "<em>Type involved practitioners seem to have had roughly the same set of
    attunements and obsessions before the identification of saccadic patterns in reading,
    and certainly before any scientific understanding of the reading process was widely
    understood.</em>\r\n\r\nJohn, a further comment: one does not have to be aware
    of the precise neuromechanics of reading, to be attuned to the things these neuromechanical
    patterns make important; that is, to be attuned to the right things from a neuromechanical
    standpoint, like strategic construction (to promote bouma-level divergence for
    instance), a well-motivated contrast scheme (to promote cross-leter binding),
    and--in non-assimilated script systems--space craft (to inhibit processing according
    to molarity or slot coding*) one does not have to be aware of the precise perceptual
    processing mechanics of reading. \r\n\r\nAttunement to the right things was already
    hammered out well before the typographic era dawned. (It emerged in diverse cultures
    in the practice of writing.) Insofar as typographic feature-manipulation stayed
    or stays attuned it could or can make progress.\r\n\r\n* actually all three do
    all three equally and in concert.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-10-23 16:13:01'
date: '2005-09-29 15:47:47'
title: bouma as bounded map

---
