---
author:
  name: silas
  picture: 110762
body: "What are the benefits of hinting a font if you're not going to do it manually?
  \ I have found that even my more rigid, geometric typefaces end up rendering clunky
  or wobbly when autohinting comes into play.  Decorative and detailed fonts... fugetaboudit!\r\n\r\nI
  am of the opinion that an unhinted font generally looks better than an autohinted
  font on screen, leaving antialiasing to a quality engine (ie: Adobe or MacOS...
  especially Photoshop with the selection of antialiasing styles).\r\n\r\nHow do you
  all approach this conundrum?  Does it bother you?  What do you prefer... autohinting
  or no hints at all?\r\n\r\n(PC/Windows centric opinions are most appreciated here.)"
comments:
- author:
    name: Down10
    picture: 128220
  body: I too am curious, as I've noticed the auto-hints tend to only hint horizontally
    and not vertically (in FontLab). Is there some special method of hinting a font
    that delivers great results, or is it more of a trial-and-error effort?
  created: '2005-09-29 19:53:22'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Type 1 hinting is not that hard and you usually get better results than with
    autohinting. TrueType hinting is much more complex, and therefore more difficult
    to do. I also think that autohinting TrueType fonts does not work as well as autohinting
    Type 1 fonts. You can get the best results manually hinting TrueType fonts, but
    it's a lot of work.
  created: '2005-09-29 20:58:53'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: 'My recommendations are: hint t1 manually, put in (manually) some standard
    stems and zones, convert t1 hints to tt (automatically, but adjust conversion
    rules according to font design), apply delta-hinting to stems and zones (first
    - auto to stems, then adjust as needed). For most designs it will do 80% of the
    work.'
  created: '2005-09-29 22:26:56'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "A combination of manual and auto hinting seems to do the trick for me on
    T1 fonts.\r\nIn FL go, Prefs > Type 1 > Type 1 Auothinting Options.\r\nAdjusting
    these numbers based on the stem widths of your design can have a drastic\r\nimpact
    on the quality of the autohints you end up with. Really thin and really bold designs\r\nusually
    need the most adjustment."
  created: '2005-10-01 15:02:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Where does autohint on type 1 typically not work well, and need correction?
    How? '
  created: '2005-10-01 16:22:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "William, T1 autohinting will typically add more hints than you really need,
    and some of these can conflict and result in messy rendering. Hint replacement
    can sometimes deal with these, but if you were hinting manually you probably wouldn't
    put so many hints in. Also note that FontLab's auto hint replacement function
    works most of the time, but we found some problems with it when working on a project
    for Adobe last year. FontLab was reporting correct hint replacement (green dot)
    but Adobe's test tools were finding faults where one hint sits directly on top
    of another hint. I went in to the manual hinting window and confirmed that the
    hints were overlapping, and had to manually create separate hint groups. I have
    not had an opportunity to test this with FL5.\r\n\r\nUnless I am making a quick-and-dirty
    test font during development, I manually hint. It doesn't take long, and I like
    knowing what is going on in every glyph."
  created: '2005-10-01 19:15:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">if you were hinting manually you probably wouldn\u2019t put so many hints
    in\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2005-10-01 19:21:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nThanks very much for the info!  If manual hinting is as easy as
    you say in FontLab, It makes me wonder why auto hinting seems to fail at it so
    often. I have yet to do an auto hinting which is better than no hinting.  Sometimes
    it works better than others but most of the time, it is less than stellar.  I
    hope Adam Twardoch can enlighten us on this function as well as let us in on FL5
    for Mac OS-X release plans. He could give us a \"hint\" on hinting as well:-)\r\nIt
    has been a while, but I seem to remember Fontogrpher doing a better job at hinting.\r\n\r\n
    ChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: Thanks William for posing the question so concisely as well!"
  created: '2005-10-01 23:53:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "What John said.\r\n\r\nGenerally, I would start with FontLab autohinting,
    and add manual hinting on top of that.\r\n\r\nAdobe's own Type 1 and OpenType
    CFF fonts are all autohinted, but with our own autohinter. We're looking at putting
    that into our OpenType SDK code so that folks like FontLab will be able to use
    it, and the need for manual hinting of PS outlines will be greatly reduced.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-10-02 01:14:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"We\u2019re looking at putting that into our OpenType SDK code so that folks
    like FontLab will be able to use it, and the need for manual hinting of PS outlines
    will be greatly reduced.\"\r\n\r\nBRAVO! Kudos to Thomas and Adobe for sharing
    with the type design community.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-02 02:33:40'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>If manual hinting is as easy as you say in FontLab, It makes me wonder
    why auto hinting seems to fail at it so often.</em>\r\n\r\nThe difference is that
    <strong>you</strong> know what the font is supposed to look like, FontLab doesn't.
    It's easy for you as a designer to look at a glyph and say, \"This is an important
    part of this glyph; this isn't.\" There is a certain amount of judgement that
    no algorithm can completely replace. \r\n\r\nIf the hinting process was so easy
    to automate, there would be no need for hints; it could be built into the rasterizer."
  created: '2005-10-02 04:36:14'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "One could indeed put the hinter into the rasterizer. I suspect there are
    two reasons that wasn't done long ago:\r\n\r\n1) Performance. Even back in the
    early 90s, let alone the mid-80s, autohinting every font would have had a noticeable
    impact on output speed.\r\n\r\n2) Until the last few years, Adobe considered the
    quality of its autohinter a proprietary advantage over other type foundries. This
    attitude has shifted as we have come to the realization that it is more valuable
    Adobe as a company to help others make better fonts so that our applications work
    better.\r\n\r\nActually, it's a particularly fun aspect to working in the Adobe
    type group in recent years: we can legitimately say that altruism towards other
    type foundries is good business, too.  :)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-10-02 05:33:48'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Thomas, if that's the case, I really hope it happens soon. As you can tell
    from my argument, I was making the assumption that if quality autohinting was
    possible, we would have it by now, and I speculated as to the reason why we don't
    have it. Here I thought Adobe had a team of expert hinters on staff to do the
    grunt work. So it turns out it does exist, but you guys were just keeping it to
    yourselves. Thanks in advance.
  created: '2005-10-02 05:45:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> We\u2019re looking at putting that into our OpenType SDK code\r\n\r\nYes,
    that would indeed be very nice of you.\r\n\r\n> autohinting every font would have
    had a noticeable impact on output speed.\r\n\r\nEven if you consider that it only
    has to be done once per character? Just like you cache a rasterization of a glyph
    at a given size for better performance.\r\n\r\nAlso: When it comes to really small
    PPEMs (like onscreen) no T1 autohinter can match TTs manual hints. It's like Mark
    said about \"true\" intelligence.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Thomas Phinney
      picture: 128358
    body: "I think I've heard that the FreeType rasterizer on Unix may do auto-hinting.
      But other than that, I've not heard of a rasterizer doing autohinting.\r\n\r\nHinting
      has some relevance to 600 dpi, but not a ton at normal text sizes. Very small
      type at 600 dpi benefits quite a bit from good hinting (think 5-8 pt). At 300
      dpi hinting matters a lot. At imagesetter resolutions, it matters very little.\r\n\r\n>>
      autohinting every font would have had a noticeable impact on output speed.\r\n\r\n>
      Even if you consider that it only has to be done once per character? Just like
      you cache a rasterization of a glyph at a given size for better performance.\r\n\r\nEven
      so. I don't think most people realize how slow RIPs were back when. I remember
      waiting up to an hour for a single page of text for me newsletter to output....\r\n\r\n>
      Also: When it comes to really small PPEMs (like onscreen) no T1 autohinter can
      match TTs manual hints. It\u2019s like Mark said about \u201Ctrue\u201D intelligence.\r\n\r\nThis
      is only sort of true. I agree that manual hinting can always be better than
      auto-hinting. I am dubious about whether manual hinting is always or even usually
      worthwhile. Manual hinting of TrueType is a particularly troublesome cost/benefit
      equation because hinting of TT always assumes some particular rendering system:
      one does it differently for ClearType than without, for example.\r\n\r\nI think
      it will be very interesting for people to do in-depth comparisons of ClearType
      on OpenType CFF versus TrueType outlines. It will be especially fun with cases
      where we have essentially the same typeface design fully realized in multiple
      formats.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
    created: '2005-10-04 05:54:51'
  created: '2005-10-02 06:27:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"The difference is that you know what the font is supposed to look like,
    FontLab doesn\u2019t. It\u2019s easy for you as a designer to look at a glyph
    and say, 'This is an important part of this glyph; this isn\u2019t.' \"\r\n\r\nThe
    difference is that I don't know jack about hinting. I know how my font is supposed
    to look but I don't know what to do with the hinting to make it work.  I look
    at the hints auto-hinting creates in my fonts and I look at hints from other fonts
    to try to figure out how they work but I am too naive to make it work.  Is there
    some source for hinting (Hinting for Dummies) that you might recommend? When people
    on this forum say it is so simple to do manually, I keep looking for the \"Easy\"
    button but I am too much of a dufus to find it. I have managed to teach myself
    pretty much the rest of what I need to know about using the software but hinting...well
    I need a hint.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-02 16:41:16'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: <a href="http://www.taquitos.net/snacks.php?snack_code=2535" target=_blank>autohinting
    is for girls!</A>
  created: '2005-10-02 20:28:02'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "The way I think about Type 1 hinting is this:\r\n\r\nAny important horizontal
    stroke (like the crossbar of a T) gets a hint. When you do this, you are defining
    a horizontal stem. Any important vertical stroke (like the middle of the T) gets
    a hint. This is called a vertical stem. Some things, like the top of an A and
    the bottom of a V, also get a sort of one-sided-horizontal-stem hint, even though
    there's not a horizontal stroke. Forget about diagonal strokes (including italics).
    They have to fend for themselves. Don't worry too much about serifs.\r\n\r\nAlignment
    zones are like horizontal ruts. The edges of horizontal stems that fall into them
    will magically line up with each other at lower resolutions. You normally put
    alignment zones at the baseline, cap height, x-height, and so on. You make them
    thick enough to catch any edges that are nearby (including the tops and bottoms
    of rounded glyphs). This is what keeps things lined up horizontally at low resolutions.\r\n\r\nStandard
    stems are a bit like alignment zones, but define recurring dimensions in the font,
    such as thin strokes and thick strokes. The rasterizer decides how many pixels
    each of these standard stems should be at a given resolution. Then, when it encounters
    one of your stem hints, it picks the closest match from the standard stems and
    uses that to decide how many pixels wide it should be.\r\n\r\nAdding hints also
    imposes some symmetry to the shapes in the glyphs. For instance, a round bullet
    with no hinting will not necessarily come out symmetrical when it's rasterized.
    By adding a horizontal and a vertical hint, the rasterizer will magically make
    it symmetrical in both directions at low resolutions.\r\n\r\nThere's obviously
    more to it than this, but it should be enough to get you started.\r\n\r\nI found
    David Lemon's introduction helpful when I started doing my own hinting:\r\n\r\nwww.pyrus.com/downloads/hinting.pdf\r\n\r\nBetween
    that and the Hinting chapter in the FontLab manual, it's not too difficult to
    figure out the important stuff.\r\n\r\nAnother thing that helps is to turn on
    the Type 1 Hinting Preview in FontLab. This allows you to see interactively how
    hinting works. (Note: If you're on a Mac, this won't work in OS X or Classic running
    under OS X. You have to run FontLab in OS 9 with ATM for it to work. Reportedly,
    this will be fixed in FontLab Studio 5.)"
  created: '2005-10-02 23:00:06'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "<cite>I am of the opinion that an unhinted font generally looks better than
    an autohinted font on screen, leaving antialiasing to a quality engine (ie: Adobe
    or MacOS\u2026 especially Photoshop with the selection of antialiasing styles).</cite>\r\n\r\nGot
    two questions which may have obvious answers, but would be grateful if someone
    could clarify:\r\n\r\n- for an unhinted font, does any screen renderer (either
    OS or application) do any of its own autohinting? Don't have an unhinted font
    to test with, but would Photoshop's crisp/strong/smooth text rendering modes give
    exactly the same results without any hints?\r\n\r\n- does hinting, or indeed anti-aliasing
    have any relevance to printing at all? (I'm thinking desktop printers rather than
    press here)"
  created: '2005-10-03 10:48:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mark,\r\nThank you very much for taking the time to get me started on hinting.
    I am sure others who are hinting-challenged will appreciate your efforts as well.
    You are one of the people on this board who make it valuable.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-03 13:14:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"autohinting is for girls!\"\r\n\r\nBut Vincent, I like girls AND chocolate--what
    do I do? :-)\r\n(What would this forum be like sans a Comic :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-03 13:16:49'
- author:
    name: edeverett
    picture: 109635
  body: "There is (limited) information on Freetypes autohinting <a href=\"http://www.freetype.org/freetype2/docs/ft2faq.html#autohint\">here</a>.\r\n\r\nI
    bumped into it the other day when I was making a greyscale pixel font to use on
    my website that would be dynamically rastered by freetype. Freetype kept autohinting
    the middle 'crossbar' on my B to align with the pixel grid which was not what
    I wanted. I've put an example <a href=\"http://www.edeverett.co.uk/files/BB.gif\">here</a>
    The top left B is how freetype rendered it and the top right B is how I wanted\u2014and
    finally got\u2014 it. Their outlines are in red bellow.\r\n\r\nEd."
  created: '2005-10-04 12:02:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vincent,\r\nNow that I have follwed everyone's links and done some more research,
    I find that you are a Zen Master Hinter with a Black Belt in Delta:-) So when
    you say, \"Autohinting is for Girls,\" you speak with master authority.  \r\nHere
    I am, not even yet worthy of a \"Yes Grasshopper\" yet :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-05 20:55:58'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "One tip: if you experiment with hinting in FontLab/FontLab Studio, try the
    following: \r\n1. In Font Info / Hinting Settings, do \"Auto zones\". \r\n2. Autohint
    your font. \r\n3. In Font Info / Hinting Settings / Standard Stems, do \"Auto
    stems\". \r\n4. Remove the hinting. \r\n\r\nThe bottom line is that sometimes,
    having an OpenType PS font without hinting is OK if you have defined standard
    stems and alignment zones. \r\n\r\nAlignment zones are most important. Standard
    stems are the second-most important. Individual glyph hints follow in priority.
    \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-03-19 14:11:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Adam!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-19 15:15:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Also: There are several <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/activity/hinting/\">Hinting
    links</a> at this MyFonts site.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-19 16:50:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I don't think anyone mentioned the fact that TrueType hints are not used
    natively on Mac OS X.  \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2006-03-19 16:55:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I didn't know that Si, thanks.  Does this mean the OS rasteriser does all
    the work or does the app chime in? I guess I am just saying, how does it work?
    Truetype fonts look great on my Mac.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-19 17:00:39'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'The Mac OS X rasterizer uses a very advanced antialiasing mechanism so the
    fonts look good on screen without using hinting. Apple put a lot of research into
    scaling: the doc icons and other graphical items are also scaled using a very
    smart algorithm. '
  created: '2006-03-19 17:51:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the fonts look good on screen without using hinting.\r\n\r\nBut not good
    enough, or at least not as good as they could.\r\nTheir algorithm might be the
    best of its kind (although I think\r\nthe MS stuff is better) but sadly that's
    not saying much at all.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-21 04:10:46'
- body: At Cialis online that time, the blood vessels that <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=88&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>buy
    cialis </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=89&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>levitra
    side effects </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=90&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>natural
    viagra </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=91&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>buy
    prozac </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=92&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>buy
    soma lowest prices </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=93&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>discount
    viagra </a>
  created: '2007-06-09 11:31:27'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: 'Fast forward to late 2008. What should one do, using FLS for a font family
    of six weights: to auto-hint or not to autohint that is the question.  Is there
    now specialized hinting software that is easy to use and does a better job? Many
    thanks for helpful suggestions from the experts.'
  created: '2008-09-26 03:06:45'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: Any update with releasing Adobe's own autohinter to the public?
  created: '2010-07-06 01:20:52'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Any update with releasing Adobe's own autohinter to the public?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    been part of the free Adobe FDK for a couple years now."
  created: '2010-07-06 01:50:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: 'Fontographer 5 is the first FontLab product that includes the Adobe autohinter.
    FontLab Studio 6 will also include it. '
  created: '2010-07-06 02:15:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When is FL6 coming out?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-06 03:14:46'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "Nice\u2026 I thought it was something separate than the FL5 autohinter.\r\n\r\nWhen
    is FL6 coming out? Is it going to be incredible or what? : )"
  created: '2010-07-06 03:39:30'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It is (sort of) separate in FL(S)5. You need to install the AFDKO, which will
    add a bunch of Python scripts to FLS5, including the autohinter, which you can
    run as a macro (Python script). You can also run it from the command line (e.g.,
    via Terminal in OS X). What Adam is saying (I think) is that when you use the
    "autohint" facility in FLS6, it will be the Adobe autohinter, as it is in Fontographer
    5.
  created: '2010-07-06 05:44:20'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Mark, \r\n\r\nindeed, the Adobe autohinter will be natively included in FontLab
    Studio 6. We're currently working on it (with double energy since Fontographer
    5 is out), but we don't have a release date yet. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2010-07-06 13:57:03'
- author:
    name: Michael Jarboe
  body: "Nice, I'll look into that\u2026 thanks for the clarification."
  created: '2010-07-06 22:00:38'
date: '2005-09-29 17:50:46'
node_type: forum
title: To autohint, or NOT to autohint...

---
