---
author:
  name: nicolaj
body: "Hi there, I'm about to reinvest in a printer for testing typefaces. Both in
  small size bodytext and bigger size design testing.\r\n\r\nDoes anybody have any
  good advices about printer type, postscript (software) rip, testing methodes etc.
  How do I simultate ex. offset book printing?\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n\r\nNicolaj Bak"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "2400 dpi for serious small text work.\r\nPostscript preferable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-01 21:32:19'
- author:
    name: nicolaj
  body: "Thanks hhp, does any desktop printer print 2400 dpi? and what about software
    rips for mac osX, does they actually work - do you have any experiences with this
    (printer type, rip) ???\r\n\r\nNicolaj"
  created: '2005-10-01 21:49:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "What is the least expensive way to get that? I have been looking into it
    & it seems like we are talking about a Xante. I have also found a Ricoh that might
    be okay at 1200 dpi with PS but it is hard to find a retailer that has them. Not
    that Xantes are so easy to find either...\r\n\r\nFrom the xante site:\r\n\r\nAccel-a-Writer
    4G Printer [$2,285.99 ( lowest price I have found so far ) ]\r\nAccel-a-Writer
    4G provides the highest resolution available of any printer in its class - up
    to 2400 x 2400 dpi. The Accel-a-Writer 4G printer is an outstanding graphics printer
    that delivers superior halftones up to 150 lpi, oversized output, .....\r\n\r\nAW1200
    Printer - [ $1385 ( lowest price I have found so far) ]\r\nThe new AW1200 excels
    in output up to 11\" x 17\" and printing at 1200 x 1200 dpi. \r\n\r\nHas anybody
    found a good source for a used ricoh or xante? I would like to spend sub $1000
    if possible!\r\n\r\nHrant, What do you have? You use a PC right?\r\n\r\n-e.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-01 21:51:31'
- author:
    name: nicolaj
  body: "It seems that this Xantes printers prints up to A3+. I could easyly do with
    A4 - must be cheaper ..?\r\n\r\nNicolaj"
  created: '2005-10-01 21:58:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Everybody seems to agree that if you can go Xante - it's best. Most laser
    printers these days are inexpensive or expensive 600x600 1200x600 or 2400x600.
    There are some 1200x1200 too but usually there is a missing feature - real postscript
    instead of emulation of some kind. HP seems useless for our purposes unless (
    is it true? ) you can just use a PDF format to get around the issue. Maybe even
    then.\r\n\r\nAssuming you want real Postscript not emulation & 1200x1200dpi, don't
    care about color or duplexing & cannot affort a Xante - here is what I have found
    as altrenates. Prices are suggested retail from the company sites not retailers
    actual prices. \r\n\r\n--------\r\nXerox Phaser 4500 ( PS3 & true 1200x1200dpi
    )\r\n25ppm\r\n\r\n4500 - $899.00 - usb only\r\n4500n - $999.00 - with ethernet\r\n\r\ncost
    per page: 1.3 cents based 5% coverage\r\nworks with mac & pc: yes\r\n\r\n--------\r\nOki:
    B6200 ( PS3 & true 1200x1200dpi )\r\n25ppm\r\n\r\nB6200 $524.99\t\r\nB6200n $681.99
    - with ethernet\r\ncost per page: 2 cents \r\nworks with mac & pc: yes\r\n\r\n--------\r\nMinolta:
    \ PagePro 9100 N ( PS3* & true 1200x1200dpi )\r\n 35ppm\r\n\r\nPagePro 9100 N\r\n\r\n*
    I am still working on finding out if this or other minolta printers have real
    postcript. So no prices on this one yet\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-07 21:37:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, I'm on Windows. But anyway my printer is cheese-factor-5...\r\nI go
    to a bureau and get veloxes whenever it's show time.\r\n\r\nEben, thanks for the
    legwork! I might get one of those soon.\r\nOh, and cool jack-o-lantern.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-07 21:49:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'I am still hoping to hear something interesting from Xante too - so hang
    in there. RE: the pumpkin - Thanks! I had fun making them last year & it seemed
    like the right sort of season...'
  created: '2005-10-08 02:19:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Oh, and Lexmark - NO real postscript in ANY of their current line of printers.
    They use 100% emulation.
  created: '2005-10-08 02:20:41'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "What is a Velox? This aught to get my post #s up.... :-p\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-08 02:21:55'
- author:
    name: mantz
    picture: 109988
  body: "We bought the Xant\xE9 AW 1200 a few years ago, and have been very happy
    with it.\r\n\r\nHowever, 1200 dpi is not an accurate representation of type (especially
    if it is being used for looking at finer details)! Even at 1200 dpi, fonts look
    fatter than they should. We did a comparison of the results from an imagesetter
    at 2400 dpi and our printouts, and the difference was huge (we had posted scans
    of the two samples on the old typophile, but I can't find it).\r\n\r\nJust to
    say, if you are working on type, and if you don't want surprises (like seeing
    the final printed 500 page book and finding everything too LIGHT for easy reading!),
    you should in my opinion look only for 2400x2400.\r\n\r\nOr make a velox, as Hrant
    suggest, before finalising your first pages (any excellent idea, in fact).\r\n\r\n-
    Robert"
  created: '2005-10-08 02:51:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A velox is like a heavy and glossy printout - almost like your typical photo
    paper, but not that thick, and not grainy. The way my place does it is they make
    regular imagesetter film, then they burn (?) velox copies from that, and each
    velox costs like $7. Another way is to run an imagesetter with \"paper\" instead
    of film, but a lot of bureaus don't like that because it involves swapping cartridges
    in their imagesetter; and if you want multiple copies of something without running
    an imagesetter repeatedly it's better to go from film instead of \"paper\". What
    I don't know though is exactly how they make veloxes from the film...\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nRobert,
    I'd like to see your comparisons - could you possibly find them?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-08 03:04:35'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think I did a search on this topic via google & pointed at Typophile -
    and saw those images. If I find them again I will link to the info. We still can't
    post inline images or I would grab the images & post 'em. \r\n\r\nSince 2400x2400
    costs 2k+ I think I will trake this velox thing seriously - especially for text
    faces! \r\n\r\nHow is a *high end* inkjet with fancy paper in comparison to velox
    or 2400x2400 on a xante? That is probably $3 a sheet & can be done at home or
    in the studio! The reson I wanted to get a laser printer was to get get me 90%
    there. If the last 10% can be acheived using fancy paper & a HP designjet that
    does 2400x2400 on photo film or something... That might be a good way to have
    your cake & eat it too!\r\n\r\nAnybody tried that?"
  created: '2005-10-08 04:04:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I personally don't trust ink[jets].\r\n\r\nBTW, I can think of a way to save
    money on a high-end printer: simply <cite>learn</cite> to gauge what a face will
    <cite>really</cite> look like based on what a 600 dpi laser printer does to it...
    Probably easier said than done though. By extension, one could do a one-time comparison
    using hi-res (2400 dpi) scans of a velox and one's own printer, measure the difference,
    and use a custom precisely-lighter weight of the face for proofing on the lo-res
    printer...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-08 04:19:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I got my Xante AW 1200 for under $1000 from a dealer who had it sitting on
    his shelves for some time. Note you that can adjust the density of print on the
    AW 1200 and that the 'light' setting will get you close to the image setter on
    paper, but it will still be a little heavy. But the AW 1200 is not a substitute
    for proofing from the image setter, I think.  The 2400 dpi printers may be, but
    I don't know. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-10-08 05:41:19'
- author:
    name: mantz
    picture: 109988
  body: "If you want to use an Inkjet, you will have to get a RIP in order to get
    printouts that are half-way acceptable.\r\n\r\nAlso, it is about 3 dollars a page
    IF the printer doesn't splotch or streak, or do any of the number of other things
    Inkjets tend to do. Then, the cost for a single page goes way up!\r\n\r\nOur inkjet
    was 2400x2400, and we had a rip, but we pretty much stopped using it once we got
    the AW 1200. Even though the AW1200 is only 1200 dpi and monochromatic, it wasted
    less of our time and was generally less stressful.\r\n\r\nHere is a cached link
    through Google of the previous descusion of this issue \r\nhttp://72.14.207.104/search?q=cache:w7vtwhUFY-AJ:www.typophile.com/forums/messages/4101/13289.html%3F1075071667+AW1200+Typophile&hl=en\r\n\r\nI
    have the pictures, but is it possible to post them?\r\n\r\n- Robert"
  created: '2005-10-09 16:32:55'
- author:
    name: mantz
    picture: 109988
  body: <a href="http://72.14.207.104/search?q=cache:w7vtwhUFY-AJ:www.typophile.com/forums/messages/4101/13289.html%3F1075071667+AW1200+Typophile&hl=en">Link
    here</a>
  created: '2005-10-09 16:34:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "BTW - here is what I found available direct from Xante today October 11th
    2005 \r\n\r\nThese are refurbs: 4g 256mb ram 2400x2400dpi $3395.00\r\n\r\nthere
    are some 1200x1200dpi models too. This is a large format printer. 128 MB $2078.25,
    64 MB $1865.75\r\n\r\nThere is also the 1200x1200 dpi AW 1200. It goes for $995
    new \r\n\r\nIt's also semi large format. Check the web site for other specs &
    so on.\r\n\r\nI am on the fence again. Maybe Hrant's Velox solution is best!"
  created: '2005-10-11 22:56:24'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "As other said look for a 2400 dpi postscript printer. Preferably a black
    & white instead of a color one. It will give you a better output. Other suggestion,
    send your file to a printing shop, it will print your file really close of \xABreality\xBB."
  created: '2005-10-14 01:13:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "hee hee. I had been thinking something like that for a while. I wonder what
    that might cost... Of course then you get into what paper you are printing on...
    What press is being used and thousands of other subtle variables. But your right.
    That is reality. \r\n\r\nOf course if you are designing a face for newsprint or
    other rough/poor paper then this kind of test is the ONLY way. \r\n\r\nBut if
    your standard output is going to be on fairly smooth paper a velox or 2400x2400
    xante seems like it might be pretty good. They might be too perfect!\r\n\r\nOh,
    pie in the sky..."
  created: '2005-10-14 16:43:58'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: 'How much does an imagesetter cost? What if someone on these boards were to
    buy one, and sell printouts to thos who wanted tight test prints? '
  created: '2005-10-18 04:11:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Great idea.\r\n\r\nAnother potential collaborative effort:\r\nThe Design
    Magazine Scout Squad: Each person in a group is assigned a single magazine to
    scour each month, and report back with a short review, so the others are alerted
    to anything that might interest them without wasting too much time.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 04:33:34'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Imagesetters will get cheaper as they are replaced by Computer-to-Plate technology.
    However, be aware that, for film or velox output, you need not only the imagesetter
    but a processor as well. Then you have the problem of chemical recycling (silver
    can be recovered from the fixer) and disposal (used litho developer is really
    nasty stuff, and most municipalities frown on your pouring it doen the drain).\r\n\r\nHrant,
    inkjets are as reliable as the RIP that drives them. In the shop I work in, we
    employ a Delta ROOM (RIP Once, Output Many) system to drive CPT for plates and
    generate proofs with a high-end Epson inkjet. The same file that prints the plates
    prints the proofs (although proofs are printed composite, while plates are separated)
    and, with the slight exception of some PMS colors which simply CANNOT be accurately
    rendered in CMYK (nor, for that matter, in CMYK + Light Cyan + Light Magenta),
    the proofs match the finished printed product extremely well. And the inkjet has
    the added advantage of not having to deal with toxic byproducts."
  created: '2005-10-18 14:54:17'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "RIPs are expensive software however, and the ink for inkjets is too. The
    question is ( probably ) how many sheets will you print in testing. 1,000 or 10,000
    or more? The closer you get to 10,000 the more the xante is going to look good
    on a pure cost basis. Plus the laser option prints faster. \r\n\r\nHowever, It
    would be interesting to compare a RIP/inkjet generated letter at high rez to a
    printed letter & laser printed letters. It is possible (maybe) that the RIP letter
    would somehow resemble the ouffset printed letter more closely than the laser
    letter...\r\n\r\nMaybe we could arrange a test. We could compare an offset letter
    from an existing offset printed job ( to reduce cost!) with the output from an
    HP deskjet with RIP, a xante & maybe Nick's Epson. First, we need a volunteer
    with a some offset printed work to share/show...\r\n "
  created: '2005-10-18 17:02:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Let's do it, yes!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 17:53:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: We should maybe get specific about what we want to see offset. Helvetica might,
    for instance, be a less than ideal test subject. Also what point size range. Hrant,
    I expect that this kind of specificity would be your forte - no? Also, Do you
    have a velox & a printed example that we could start with? Maybe of Patria?
  created: '2005-10-18 18:53:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "My problem is my scanner: only 600 optical.  :-(\r\nIf you can recruit Raph
    (sorry, Raph :-) he's got a really good scanner.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: gln
      picture: 110168
    body: "<em>My problem is my scanner: only 600 optical. :-(\r\nIf you can recruit
      Raph (sorry, Raph :-) he\u2019s got a really good scanner.</em>\r\n\r\nHrant,\r\n\r\nI
      hardly use my 1200 dpi scanner since I got a digital camera.\r\n\r\nI adapted
      my 35mm copy stand with lights to take my digital camera.\r\nThe detail and
      sharpness is better than I got with the scanner. Also I am also no longer limited
      to the size of the scanner glass.\r\n\r\ngln"
    created: '2005-10-23 07:46:24'
  created: '2005-10-18 19:01:04'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "A couple of comments:\r\n\r\n1. I am moderately happy with my Minolta 9100.
    The biggest issue has been the reliablility of the toner cartridge. I have yet
    to have toner cartridge that does not fail and do something strange like print
    ghost images etc well before the cartridge is empty. Fortunately, Minolta has
    been awesome with their support. They fedex me new cartridges overnight when I
    call them. Free. I am now on cartridge number 4. The current one has worked flawlessly
    for the last 4 months. Print quality works for me at this stage of my business.\r\n\r\n2.
    There is looking at type, and then there is LOOKING at type. Don't discount the
    amount of training your eyes require to need the difference between 600/1200/2400.
    Yes, you can obviously see there is darkening. But I think 1200 is good enough
    to see proportion issues, modulation irregularities etc. Or at the very least
    to see that something is not quite right with a letter. From there you can go
    in and play detective at larger sizes.\r\n\r\nI supect that 1200 is sufficient
    for the vast majority of *designers* on this site. Myself included. To make the
    jump to 2400 I think you either need to have extra cash laying around, or derive
    a large part of your income from designing text typefaces so you can justify the
    business expense, and know what you're looking at.\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2005-10-18 19:12:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> 1200 is good enough to see ...\r\n\r\nInteresting.\r\nCould you put your
    finger on how 600 fails for that?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 19:20:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Or you are just curious about the issue... and want to be able to check something
    in future. Your right it is a narrow audience. But some of us here *are* that
    audience.\r\n\r\nI think for a type designer the difference between 600 & 1200
    is huge. Also, while you can look at type blown up to large sizes to see shapes
    in the abstract - it really isn't the same as seeing it properly when it is small
    on paper. You are trying to evaluate subjective experience - and that can't be
    done if you are not having the experience. If you are interested I will explain
    further.\r\n\r\nThe Minolta 9100 uses PS emulation doesn't it? They sent me a
    nice test print. I have to admit it looks dandy. Too bad about the cartriges!
    I remember it having a sweet price point. But the lack of real postscript seems
    damning to me. Maybe I am being to ivory tower. Would you be willing to print
    & send/scan something for us so we can judge?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 19:23:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "BTW \r\n\r\nI also found this\r\n\r\nxerox 4500N ( N=ethernet network ) \r\ntrue
    ps\r\nstandard paper 8.5x11 only\r\n1200x1200 dpi\r\n$999 , or + $329 3 years
    on-site service\r\nI am having a printed sheet sent to me because reviews say
    the quality is iffy. Then again, were they using the PS?\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-20 18:20:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Whoops! It's emulation. Not real PS. Oh well.
  created: '2005-10-20 18:23:55'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Whoops again it's real. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.office.xerox.com/perl-bin/product.pl?product=4500&page=spec\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-20 18:29:39'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "<cite>Your right it is a narrow audience. But some of us here *are* that
    audience.</cite>\r\nFair enough. It seems clear that a Xante or getting outputs
    from a service bureau is best for you. It becomes an ecomonic issue to decide
    which.\r\n\r\n<cite>The Minolta 9100 uses PS emulation doesn\u2019t it? </cite>\r\nYes.
    I think so.\r\n\r\n<cite>Would you be willing to print & send/scan something for
    us so we can judge?</cite>\r\nYes. I'll post something in a few minutes.\r\n\r\n<cite>Could
    you put your finger on how 600 fails for that?</cite>\r\nNo. I don't have a 600
    dpi printer. But I suspect even 600 is good enough to see if the bone structure
    of a text face is good. At least 75% of a good text face is bone structure. Is
    the trap in the v too small? Fagedaboudit.\r\n\r\nHakim's Razor strikes again:
    Only design text typefaces for laser printers! QED.\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2005-10-20 18:49:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Only design text typefaces for laser printers!\r\n\r\nYou really think
    so?\r\nDesign for the market that cares least about fonts?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-20 18:57:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Does anybody have a test doc they like to use? I was thinking of sending a
    PDF from underware or something...
  created: '2005-10-20 19:20:05'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Hrant: That was a joke.\r\n\r\nOk. Here is a sample. I was actually a little
    surprised at how close the color was. The trade off is that outline fidelity goes
    down due to the dithering at the edges (i think that's dithering). I have no idea
    how printers are hinted. This is a pdf printed out of Preview on a mac, on ultra
    bright white supersmooth laser paper. The print sample is on uncoated stock (hey!
    give the laser a chance :-) It is 9pt, which I think is pushing is quite a lot
    for a laser.\r\n\r\nI accidentally removed the background on the prints, and realized
    one level of undo too late that I shouldn't have.\r\nNote: my scanner is crap
    so take all of this with a grain of salt, though I did use the same sharpen level
    for the two 9pt scans.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.aquatoad.com/typophile/print_sample.jpg\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2005-10-20 19:52:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Hrant: That was a joke.\r\n\r\nOh. On the other hand there is such a thing
    as over-designing.\r\n\r\n> http://www.aquatoad.com/typophile/print_sample.jpg\r\n\r\nThat
    half-bitting should not be happening, I'm pretty sure.\r\nMaybe that's a flaw
    of PS-emulation?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-20 20:03:12'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "There are a number of true Postscript imagesetters for sale on eBay at this
    very moment, some -- slightly outdated but still serviceable -- going for a song.
    Big problem: most are local pickup only; bigger problem: they take up a fair amount
    of room and have special electrical requirements; biggest problem: the processor
    byproduct issue mentioned earlier.\r\n\r\nMost imagesetters today output between
    2400 & 3000 dpi (my boss's Heidelberg does 2540) and it is noticeably different
    from the output from our 1200 dpi Xante Accel-a-writer (used for intermediate/in-house
    proofs), though not as dramatically different from the Epson output (4800 dpi)."
  created: '2005-10-20 20:08:13'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "I have been using a Minolta QMS Pagepro 1250E. It claims true 1200 dpi, and
    for the most part I think it is ok. I have <a href=\"http://www.klim.co.nz/images/misc/Laser-vs-Offset.jpg\">uploaded
    a scan of it's output vs offset for comparison</a>, using Pontifex at 9.4 and
    6.5 pt. It is rather interesting, as the width is the same, but the overall height
    of the type from the laser is greater. I don't know what this means, perhaps my
    scanner is decalibrated. For the record, the scanner is 1200 dpi optical, and
    all images have been sharpened the same amount.\r\n\r\nkris. "
  created: '2005-10-20 21:58:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kris,\r\nYour samples show the typical laser problem.  The laser stuff is
    darker with a bit more rounding at the joins. Yours is better than most though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-20 22:40:25'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: Yeah, it is good enough for the time bean. I wonder if there is a way to counteract
    it? I have also noticed that when I look at the laser vs offset, there is only
    a *slight* optical darkening, so it is pretty darn close. I reckon a 2400 dpi
    machine would be suitable for most purposes.
  created: '2005-10-21 02:48:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think it is the nature of toner to spread and smear.  2400 shoul;d help
    for most things but Linotronic is the only real option for absolute detail. And
    damn expensive too :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-21 03:03:13'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "One could argue that Linotronic, or any ot that image setter stuff is not
    accurate, and maybe a high-resolution laser print (2400dpi) is a better indication
    of how a type will image in an offest litho environment. Perfectly imaged photo
    repro is hardly the same as plate-blanket-paper image transfer.\r\n\r\nOne could!"
  created: '2005-10-21 03:24:38'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: One could argue quite successfully, and I imagine that one has the 2400dpi
    laser device mentioned elsewhere, and one finds that rather adequate!?
  created: '2005-10-21 03:37:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"One could argue that Linotronic, or any ot that image setter stuff is not
    accurate, and maybe a high-resolution laser print (2400dpi) is a better indication
    of how a type will image in an offest litho environment. Perfectly imaged photo
    repro is hardly the same as plate-blanket-paper image transfer.\"\r\n\r\nNo, offset
    printing is not the same as Lino output but neither is Laser printing. Most laser
    printers add more weight to horizontals than to verticals and toner blotting is
    not the same as inkspread on press. Offset printing does not add as much weight
    overall as toner either. Inkspread varies with many factors, human and mechanical.
    \ I only argue that Lino shows you what is in your postscript file and eliminates
    the other variables. There is no substitute for offset printing but who can afford
    it as a test method. \r\nI don't have a 2400 dpi printer so I don't know how much
    better it is. I sure would like to get an Asant\xE9 though, it has got to be better
    than my HP. Big bucks problem again :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-23 14:12:40'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: "Hi guys,\r\n\r\nI haved an imagesetter and processor that I can use for testing.
    I can even put paper instead of film (if they still sell the paper). The only
    problem is that it is PS1 and it sometimes gives errors. I am hoping to get a
    PS3 RIP for it in the near future.\r\n\r\nIf the final offset print will be on
    coated paper, the imagesetter output is very close. But even on an uncoated paper,
    imagesetter output is much closer than laser."
  created: '2005-10-23 17:08:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gerald, I can actually get over 2000dpi with my mid-range (if old) digital
    camera. But: I have to use a tripod and careful lighting; and only the tiny middle
    part is fully in focus.\r\n\r\nLevon, maybe people should send you and somebody
    with a 1200/2400 laser some PDFs, pay for mailing all the outputs to Gerald, and
    then we can see some serious comparisons?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-23 17:29:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I recommend making friends with a printer and asking them to run small tests
    of your types in the off-cut areas of print jobs for other clients. This is the
    only cheap way to do real press proofing of fonts in development.
  created: '2005-10-24 07:53:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There is another way: give/sell a beta copy of your font to the right person.
    I have Patria on both high-gloss and newsprint thanks to that (and I even made
    money from it).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-24 18:10:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hrant, that's presuming that the typeface is in a fit state to be seen in
    public. I'm talking about testing during the design phase, even with incomplete
    glyph sets.
  created: '2005-10-24 18:23:37'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "I'm back with another PagePro 9100 vs. Offset.\r\n\r\nA couple things to
    note:\r\n1. In my first sample I printed from the type itself. In this sample
    I printed from a 1200 dpi photoshop bitmap. The results are much better. I think
    this may have to do with Postscript emulation. No crappy dithering anymore. This
    is an anoying extra step, but it is nice to be able to get more out of a cheaper
    printer.\r\n\r\n2. I realized I was comparing Minion Pro with Minion. This is
    a useful thing because there are slight design differences between the two. See
    the italic r. This is clearly visible in the printout. This is what I was getting
    at with being able to see pretty fine structural differences at 1200.\r\n\r\n3.
    The two problems are the traps and the overall darkening. You might be tempted
    to overdo the traps if you only looked at the laser, or didn't look for this phenomenon.
    The darkening is definitely greater than offset (which what totally minimal).
    This is partly the fidelity of the laser print, and partly the nature of toner
    vs ink. Toner is like laying black paper over white paper, while offset is like
    black paint on white. Toner is a blacker black.\r\n\r\nAnyhow, I hope this helps
    people make decisions. I think this shows you can get rather far in the design
    and testing process with 1200dpi, but again it depends on you and your comfort/skill
    level. All things considered this seems pretty good for an $800 printer at 9pt.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/print_sample2.jpg]"
  created: '2005-10-25 14:22:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Randy,\r\nThanks for posting your scans.  You show another proof of the weight
    gain difference. This still seems to be the main bugaboo in Laser print vs offset.
    \ Printing in reverse also tells the tale but inchoking way.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-25 15:01:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Randy, thanks (again).\r\nIt's funny, in the overlays the gain of the laser
    seems minimal, but when you look at the results on their own it's clear as day.
    On the other hand, as I think you've said, weight gain is something you can account
    for \"blindly\", while in the case of outline infidelities you're lost. The thing
    is, don't you think the laser has [more] troublesome bumps?\r\n\r\n> I printed
    from a 1200 dpi photoshop bitmap.\r\n\r\nDon't you think this might have introduced
    some gain?\r\nLike how convert-to-outlines does.\r\n\r\nBTW, does the Minion-Pro
    italic lc \"r\" have a trap where the non-Pro didn't? Huh, maybe Slimbach's long-standing
    anti-trapping stance has a kink after all...\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nWhat would be nice
    now is to compare Randy's 1200 laser to a 2400 laser, although the emulation/rasterization
    issues have to be handled carefully. Probably the only way to get an accurate
    comparison is to also rasterize the type on the 2400 output too. Assuming it matters,
    just in case: Randy, which version of Photoshop did you use?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 16:57:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks Randy! Therse were very useful - especially looking at the offset with
    digital overlay.
  created: '2005-10-25 17:05:05'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: "Randy, what type of paper are you using? I just realized that the grains
    are different. That also may account for some difference in weight gain. Or maybe
    it is just the scans that came out like that.\r\n\r\nHrant, and anyone interested,
    I am willing to print some pages for you. If you send me the PDFs I'll rasterize
    them in photoshop at 2400 and print. I can also scan the prints and post them
    or send them, or mail the actual prints."
  created: '2005-10-25 18:15:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Levon, very kind of you to offer.\r\nQuestion: What optical resolution does
    your scanner have?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 20:56:43'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "<cite>The thing is, don\u2019t you think the laser has [more] troublesome
    bumps?</cite>\r\nYes for sure. Looking at the bottom of the e. Also the counters
    of the s. The laser at this size sometime lookes squarish in places that are really
    round. Remember that this is 9 point. I wouldn't trust 9 point prints for much
    other than getting the general feel of the type. It just happened to be the sample
    in front of me (a veer print)\r\n\r\n<cite>Don\u2019t you think this might have
    introduced some gain? (like convert to outlines)</cite>\r\nI don't think so. I
    typed it directly into the photoshop (7) 1200dpi bitmap from the font file, so
    I think it uses the hinting in the font -- or at least adobe's rasterizer. Conversely,
    sending outlines to a printer, there is no hinting at all. At any rate, the tests
    show that p-shop's rasterizer is a heck of a lot better than Minoltas.\r\n\r\n<cite>does
    the Minion-Pro italic lc \u201Cr\u201D have a trap where the non-Pro didn\u2019t?</cite>\r\nNo,
    actually. I think the terminal shape is slightly different. I think the above
    offset (uncoated) shows that Minion doesn't need traps, even in the italic. Slimbach
    is a giant. Everyone heralds Matthew Carter (rightly so), but Slimbach's body
    of work is staggeringly good (IMHO). I'm glad adobe has a badass on their team.\r\n\r\n<cite>Randy,
    what type of paper are you using?</cite>\r\nI've since thrown out the paper wrapper.
    It's ultra bright laser paper (28lb i think), that I got a Staples. It came in
    an orange shrinkwrap. Sorry I can't get more specific. I'm using the same paper
    for all my prints. The offset is on a cream colored uncoated stock (and was very
    lightly printed).\r\n\r\nRandy\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-26 14:08:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think it uses the hinting in the font \u2014 or at least adobe\u2019s\r\n>
    rasterizer. Conversely, sending outlines to a printer, there\r\n> is no hinting
    at all.\r\n\r\nThe reason to worry is not [just] the hinting. Convert-to-outlines
    for one comes out thicker (by an average of half a dot) because the rendering
    algorithms for outlines are different than for type... And the same <cite>could</cite>
    be the case in Photoshop.\r\n\r\nAnd to find out for sure, you can't even use
    your setup, because we don't know if the emulation is gaining (or losing) in addition
    to that half-bitting. So maybe send something to Levon?\r\n\r\n> p-shop\u2019s
    rasterizer is a heck of a lot better than Minoltas.\r\n\r\nOverall, I agree. It
    remains to be determined if Photoshop and/or the PS emulator are altering the
    weight.\r\n\r\n> Minion doesn\u2019t need traps\r\n\r\n1) In the offset, the crotch
    of the \"r\" seems fine, but not any of the other crotches... A fluke?\r\n2) Traps
    aren't just for gain, they help optically as well (especially at smaller sizes).\r\n3)
    Not all printing is offset!  :-)\r\n\r\nSlimbach: great work; would be even better
    with judicious trapping.\r\nAnd it's interesting to note here that Myriad -which
    was co-designed\r\nby Slimbach and Twombly*- does have gentle trapping... which
    is\r\nprobably one manifestation of their historic bickering.\r\n\r\n* Designer
    of the boldly trapped Mirarae.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-26 17:02:48'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: "Hrant, my scanner is 600dpi optical. I use it for low-res scanning to use
    for proofing. I have access to a Linotype-Hell drum scanner, but that would cost.
    I can also send it to someone here to scan. But I wouldn't want to scan the text
    for the final test. If someone wants to test their font I prefer sending them
    the film/paper output, so they have the real thing in their hands.\r\n\r\nRandy,
    offset ink tends to spread on uncoated paper more than on coated paper because
    it is oil based and paper absorbs it and spreads. On a laser printer, the ink
    is powder and not oil based. The spread is due to the way it is applied to the
    paper, which should be the same on both coated and uncoated paper. Imagesetter
    output is exact, there is no spread. There could be some weight change when burning
    to plate from the film, so CTP gives the best result (exact until applied to paper).\r\n\r\nMy
    point in all this is: what is it that you really want to test? If the font is
    to be used on offset, then offset is the best test. It is possible but pretty
    expensive. I can do that at a reasonably cheap price if you are not in a hurry
    in getting your tests. I can add some text around jobs. But you have to wait unti
    I get a job that uses a paper and ink within an acceptable range of your inteded
    use. I can also do the imagesetter output for you, no wait necessary."
  created: '2005-10-26 20:19:54'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "This is a bit OT, but the answers might bring up things relevant to nicolaj's
    and others' questions and thoughts on printers:\r\n\r\nI've recently asked in
    the Build section if someone might be able to account for a phenomenon I've recently
    noticed: using an HP LaserJet 1300 in Mac OS 10.4, characters in documents printed
    from InD CS and Word seem all to be aligned exactly on the baseline (hence giving
    the rounded characters like a and o, and vs, the subtle but noticeable appearance
    of floating higher than the other characters).\r\n\r\nI wonder if anyone else
    has noticed this--the 1300 and its cousins, non-PS all, are pretty popular--and
    might be able to account for it. If this were something widespread, it would make
    1300s rather unsuitable for any sort of font testing, no?"
  created: '2005-10-29 05:32:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: It sure sounds like it! What happens in other apps? Also, HP lasers have been
    bashed on typophile for these purposes before. Well maybe not bashed - derided?
    This was partly because of soft looking output in general and partly because they
    lack real PS - they just have an emulator. And the consensus is that the emulator
    is poor.
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maurice Meilleur
      picture: 109643
    body: "Eben:\r\n\r\nThe problem seems to be global. I have traded a couple of
      message with T Phinney on another thread in this section and he seems to recall
      the same thing happening with a type designer he knows using an HP; Thomas is
      pretty certain it's the emulator. I gave things a go with the printer at work,
      using a PC, and found the same problems. Thomas would be better at explaining
      the problem he suspects than I.\r\n\r\nSo, here's a question (that perhaps requires
      another thread of its own?): Is there out there a $500 (or sub-) laser printer
      of reasonable quality, with 1200x resolution, that has native Adobe PS capability?
      That might allow reasonable quality for type testing (and some home-grown final
      production) without breaking the type designer's bank.\r\n\r\nBarring that,
      has anyone tried to write their own (better) drivers for printers without native
      PS?"
    created: '2005-10-30 18:19:27'
  created: '2005-10-30 02:30:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "This is the closest thing I have found. In fact it is the only PS laser near
    this price I have found. It isn't something I would recommend to do testing on
    because I have not seen the output just the specs and because I now think 2400x2400
    is really closer to what you would want for type tests but:\r\n\r\nOki: B6200
    ( PS3 & true 1200x1200dpi ) Also come in a Network version for ethernet\r\n25ppm\r\nB6200
    aprox price - $524.99\r\n\r\nThe thing is the printer is hard to find. For me
    in Alaska anyway.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.okidata.com/mkt/html/nf/B6200Spec.html\r\n\r\nSee
    also\r\n\r\nhttp://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,1759,1651952,00.asp\r\n\r\nNotice
    they say : \" Text quality is a touch below par for monochrome lasers.\" \r\n\r\nOf
    course maybe they were not invoking the PS and ere using some kind of emulator
    because of the source application - word or excel most likeley. But maybe it's
    not all that wonderful. I can't tell yet. I'd like to see a sample. Most likeley
    I will save up for a Xante or find another route."
  created: '2005-10-30 19:11:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The big thing I notice with my HP2300 is the overshoot is overshot--meaning
    it is greater than it should be (I have compared this to imagesetter output.).
    This may also be partially the hinting or how HP interprets it.\r\nI do notice
    that my results are better with pro design apps like the Adobe CS Suite than they
    are with stuff like Microsoft puts out.  I guess Microsoft figures people who
    use their apps are not going to care about the nuances of type.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-30 20:02:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "That's funny. The problem other folks were having with the 1300 was that
    the overshoot was being suppressed to much too high a ppem size, resulting in
    the appearance of rounded characters \"floating\" up above the baseline.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, with any device there is going to be a range of sizes (possibly a couple)
    at which overshoot is having a slightly larger than expected effect, where it
    is first kicking in. This will be more apparent with lower res devices. However,
    intelligent usage of setting the blue zones (or their equivalent in TT hinting)
    should suppress overshoot at sizes where it would be particularly troublesome.\r\n\r\nIt's
    also possible that HP's solution for the \"overshoot is being suppressed to too
    large a size\" was to turn off overshoot suppression altogether, or that their
    attempt to fix it went too far in the opposite direction. (I don't know why either
    of these things would occur, seeing as this stuff is pretty clear in the Type
    1 spec, but what do I know.)\r\n\r\nI'd be curious to hear from all the people
    having these various problems exactly how old their HP devices are. I expect things
    are better with more recent versions of their PS emulation.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-10-31 17:45:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thomas,\r\nThe problem occurs at text sizes, 12pt and below.  Larger sizes
    look fine.  I have a 2300, not a 1300 if that matters.  I bought it new about
    a year and a half ago.  I use it at its highest resolution which is a fudged 1200dpi
    (They somehow use software to fake 1200 out of 600.) The fonts bundled with Microsoft
    apps don't suffer as badly as others and TrueType looks better than type 1.  \r\nI
    mostly use it to test fonts that I am designing so hinting is either minimal or
    nonexisting in the early stages. It makes it tough to decide on proper overshot
    if your printer is imposing errors. Wish I could afford a 2400dpi Xant\xE9.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-31 18:31:40'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Again, sorry for coming to this thread late.\r\n\r\nAfter some careful printing,
    I believe I <em>can</em> recommend a good inkjet printer and glossy paper for
    type proofing.\r\n\r\nI found a delicate type specimen in the latest New Yorker,
    matched it on my trusty Epson 2200, and scanned the results. Of course I used
    Ghostscript for the RIPping, because I have total control over resolution, ink
    drop size, and color management (I carefully tuned all these parameters to avoid
    any dither patterns). Here are the <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/scancompare.html\">results</a>.\r\n\r\nI
    think the Epson compares favorably with other tests posted upthread, including
    the <a href=\"http://www.klim.co.nz/images/misc/Laser-vs-Offset.jpg\">Minolta
    QMS PagePro 1250E</a>,  the <a href=\"http://www.aquatoad.com/typophile/print_sample.jpg\">Minolta
    9100</a>, and the <a href=\"http://72.14.207.104/search?q=cache:w7vtwhUFY-AJ:www.typophile.com/forums/messages/4101/13289.html%3F1075071667+AW1200+Typophile&hl=en\">Xante
    AW1200</a>.\r\n\r\nThe 2200 is not the current model. I'm sure the R2400 is just
    as good or better, and likely the R1800 as well. Indeed, I wouldn't be surprised
    if the R800 (at $400 list) would give excellent results at the A4 size. It certainly
    has the specs for it.\r\n\r\nIf people are serious about using Epson inkjets for
    proofing type, I can make a GS software kit available. I can't vouch for the quality
    using the standard Windows driver."
  created: '2005-12-04 00:22:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Raph, I think you should give a presentation at TypeCon about this.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-04 18:14:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "What is Ghost Script? And does it work on OSX?\r\n\r\nAnd... Even though
    it is impressive I see some anomallies... The cross bar on the lc e, the feeling
    of height in the lc r, the gap between the lc 't'&'y', the right side of the Cap
    U.\r\n\r\nStill, it pretty good!\r\n\r\nThe main downside is ( still) cost per
    page."
  created: '2005-12-04 19:44:04'
- author:
    name: levonk
    picture: 109507
  body: "Eben, ghostscript is a postscript RIP. It is available for OS X but it is
    a unix or X11 app, and setting up needs some work. I think there are also installers
    that will work in OS X without X11 or terminal.\r\n\r\nThere are certainly better
    RIPs for the job, but ghostscript is free."
  created: '2005-12-05 22:13:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I take your point.\r\n\r\nThanks for that! I'll look into it."
  created: '2005-12-06 09:06:48'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Where are we at with this now? I am looking to buy a printer, and don't want
    to start a new thread as the basics are laid out so well here. Has anyone had
    different experiences since? Are laser printers still adding weight? I hope not,
    after all, this is the future!
  created: '2010-02-04 13:09:07'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The idea that you are going to have a single source as a reference is something
    I can't take too seriously now. Particularly if you are talking about testing
    your font at the intended size. This is because the environments your font will
    find itself in are to varied for any one printer to be useful. The best things
    to do is to try to access as many different environments as your budget time will
    allow ( be realistic here ), and certainly the relevant ones if you are targeting
    a specific for of printing - but don't kill yourself. \r\n\r\nThere is a simpler
    solution than massive testing that will be good for MUCH of what you need. Probably
    90% of what you need to know. Get a decent laser printer, ideally that prints
    to large format paper and print the fonts tests big enough that differences between
    laser printers start to be irrelevant - so... fairly big. And then take your print
    out, put it on a wall, and step back until the letters become the optical size
    is correct for your intended use. \r\n\r\nI hope this helps."
  created: '2010-02-04 20:22:32'
date: '2005-10-01 21:21:43'
node_type: forum
title: typeface testing

---
