---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "There must be something in the water in Canada.  It seems there are far more
  people involved in type design who are from  Canada than the size of their population
  would support. Maybe long winters make people glyph skilled? Other than the Netherlands,
  I can't think of a single country with more type centrics per capita. \r\nI wonder
  if all Canadians on Typophile would tell us what they think is common to their life
  that brings out the talent and inclination to pursue design type? Whatever the reason,
  I am glad it happens :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What is it about Canadians, period.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-03 17:25:00'
- author:
    name: as8
    picture: 109877
  body: "For the October issue of the magazine I write for, I interviewed a calligrapher,\r\nAlice
    Young : www.calligraphy.ca - www.islandmagic2007.com .\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAS"
  created: '2005-10-03 18:09:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Alessandro,\r\nPerhaps it is the lovely scenery then?\r\n\r\nGood to hear
    from you,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-03 19:20:39'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "What is it about Canadians, period.\r\n\r\nWe ask the same question about
    Americans.\r\n\r\nThe Canadian Government doesn't treat the water with flourides,
    but with glyphlets, and the fronts that control the weather here originate in
    Hattem, The Netherlands. Our bullets are typographic, and our pentagons are used
    to structure page geometry. The frost on the windowpanes here crystallizes according
    to a bezier logic, but if it is really cold the serifs snap off."
  created: '2005-10-03 19:36:02'
- author:
    name: Jon Whipple
    picture: 110113
  body: "<em>...can\u2019t think of a single country with more type centrics per capita.</em>\r\n\r\nSome
    of us live in <a href=\"http://www.vansterdamtravel.com/\">Vansterdam</a>, which
    can influence your outlook on a few things. Canadian <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marshall_McLuhan\">Marshall
    McLuhan</a> wrote a whole book about our <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Gutenberg_Galaxy:_The_Making_of_Typographic_Man\">Gutenburg
    Galaxy: The Making of Typographic Man</a>, and many of us can blame <a href=\"www.veer.com\">Veer</a>.\r\n\r\nAs
    for <em>...Candians period:</em> Like <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pierre_Elliot_Trudeau\">Trudeau</a>
    said about Americans: \"Living next to you is in some ways like sleeping with
    an elephant. No matter how friendly and even-tempered is the beast, if I can call
    it that, one is affected by every twitch and grunt.\" So a lot of us define ourselves
    in contrast to Americans.\r\n\r\nJon"
  created: '2005-10-04 05:08:04'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "What is it about Canadians, period.\r\n\r\nYeah, like universal health care\u2013
    what's up with that? Freakin' communists... ;)"
  created: '2005-10-04 05:20:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Speak of the devil(s):\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/4306936.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-04 05:36:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Another amusing pastime is seeing how many of the most famous American comedians
    of the last 25 years are actually Canadian. It's like, >50% - really weird.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-10-04 05:57:40'
- author:
    name: fractal
    picture: 110979
  body: "<cite>Speak of the devil(s):\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/business/4306936.stm</cite>\r\n\r\nInteresting
    that there are 3 Canadian cities in the top 10.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\npd"
  created: '2005-10-04 06:12:35'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I'd like to think it has something to do with a certain embarrassment in
    watching George Bush make our neighbours to the south look really, really bad;
    and by that I mean that his (and, by unfortunate proxy, their) seemingly imperative
    need to draw as much attention as possible; and by that I mean that up here there
    is a century-long drive to define Canadian as not-American and thus, maybe, there
    is a desire to be less conspicuous; and by that I mean that we either fool or
    berate ourselves into thinking that by being less conspicuous we're more humble,
    more restrained, more 'dignified,' and all of these, I think, are key characteristics
    of decent typography. We also tend to see isolation and lack of recognition as
    romantic, which also fits well. If the goal of good typography is to be understated,
    Canada's a great place to do it from.\r\n\r\n(The fact that I've been hesitating
    to hit the \"Post comment\" button for the past 10 minutes and have re-read the
    above paragraph about 20 times, wondering if it's too obnoxious, also speaks to
    this attempt at decorum, and this kind of obsessive-compulsive behaviour is probably
    also common in the type-inclined.)"
  created: '2005-10-04 07:40:13'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "just out of curiosity \u2014 why do you think that  \"Other than the Netherlands,
    I can\u2019t think of a single country with more type centrics per capita.\"\r\n\r\nand
    why \" It seems there are far more people involved in type design who are from
    Canada than the size of their population would support.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-04 07:46:52'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "I grew up in a bilingual city, Montr\xE9al, which is also the home to many
    immigrant communities. (A secondary school trip to the Northwest Territories allowed
    me to hear and see the Inuktitut language.) As a result I was surrounded by language,
    both spoken and written, and when I worked at a typesetting bureau, I was taught
    how to set French, which is not how one sets English. So I understood that type
    is not an inflexible system of marks, but is a living thing.\r\n\r\nSo, that's
    my theory. You get yourself a humble multi-lingual country, throw in some long
    winters for good measure, and you get \"slow-makers\", people who take their time
    on long-term projects, like writing novels and making typefaces."
  created: '2005-10-04 15:32:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\nI'm not entirely convinced by this. I have a feeling that we'll find
    the US still has more active type designer per capita than any other country.
    Perhaps Yuri or Adam can provide us with the proportion of FontLab sales by country
    - or is that a bad way of measuring this? \r\n\r\nIt\u2019s a shame there was
    no report for Canada in this year\u2019s ATypI country delegate report. \r\n\r\nSi
    \r\n\r\nATypI country delegate for the USA\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-04 16:23:38'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>humble</em>\r\n\r\nheh. ;^P"
  created: '2005-10-04 16:35:29'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "<cite>Another amusing pastime is seeing how many of the most famous American
    comedians of the last 25 years are actually Canadian. It\u2019s like, >50% - really
    weird.</cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed, though I found when I lived there, that Canadian
    comedy (television comedies, mostly) were terribly <cite>un-</cite>funny. Perhaps
    it is due to my odd sense of humor, but I couldn't stand to watch Canadian shows,
    however they do allow bad words after bedtime, so I'll give them credit for that."
  children:
  - author:
      name: fredo
      picture: 110623
    body: "<strong> If every funny person has left Canada for the US it does make
      sense.\r\n</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
    created: '2005-10-04 16:57:47'
  created: '2005-10-04 16:45:03'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "Yee\r\nha\r\n\r\nanother\r\n\r\n<r>we\r\nrule\r\nyou\r\nsuck</r>\r\n\r\nno\r\nyou\r\nsuck\r\n\r\n<r>no\r\nyou\r\nsuck\r\nand\r\nhere's\r\nwhy</a>\r\n\r\nthread."
  created: '2005-10-04 17:06:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jason, good stuff.\r\n\r\n> not how one sets English.\r\n\r\nHow so?\r\n\r\nCertainly,
    living in a multi-cultural society, or better yet a multi-scipt one (I had three)
    opens your eyes much more to the undercurrents of Shape.\r\n\r\n> the US still
    has more active type designer per capita\r\n\r\nYou really think so, more than
    the Netherlands?\r\n\r\nZara, what about British humo[u]r?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-04 17:09:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> You really think so, more than the Netherlands?\r\n\r\nLooking at the numbers
    The Netherlands population is about 16 million, the US about 293 million - so
    for every active Dutch type designer you'd need 19 active US type designers -
    that might be pushing it. But I would not be surprised if Yuri has sold more than
    19 times the number of FL licenses to US residents than Dutch residents. 'spose
    it just depends on the definitions you pick.\r\n\r\nFWIW Canada's popualtion of
    32.5 million is about 1/9 of the US.\r\n\r\nSi\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-04 18:58:50'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Indeed, though I found when I lived there, that Canadian comedy (television
    comedies, mostly) were terribly un-funny</em>\r\n\r\nObviously, you never watched
    <a href=\"http://www.redgreen.com\" target=\"_blank\">The Red Green Show</a>..."
  created: '2005-10-04 19:15:53'
- author:
    name: as8
    picture: 109877
  body: "Hello Chris Lozos, thanks.\r\n\r\nYeah, I'm after a period, I moved to Turkey.\r\nI
    will copy a piece of the interview.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nI live in a place that is
    green and wild: rural Vancouver\r\nIsland, British Columbia, Canada. It is one
    of those\r\nplaces where civilization is just touching wilderness, so\r\nmy home
    is surrounded by tall cedar and hemlock forests,\r\nrocks, mosses and wildlife.
    My house is small, with a\r\nlarge natural garden frequented by various types
    of\r\nanimals - but ruled by my dog and cat!\r\n\r\nDespite its remote location,
    Vancouver Island is rich with\r\nart and culture. The First Nations in this area
    have a rich\r\nartistic heritage, and there are many totems and carvings.\r\n\r\nI
    am a graphic designer at Suburbia Advertising in\r\nVictoria, BC, a small, upscale
    advertising agency\r\nemploying fourteen people, and specializing in retail\r\nadvertising.
    My background includes seven years of working\r\nat larger international ad agencies
    in Toronto, Canada. Not\r\nsurprisingly, I love working with type!\r\n\r\nLike
    many kids, I doodled on my schoolbooks, and even\r\nthough drawing was one of
    my favorite pastimes, I always\r\ndoodled letters rather than drawings, on my
    books. (Alex,\r\ndo you know what doodling is?! Strange word, no?)\r\n\r\nI remember
    clearly the moment I first encountered 'real'\r\nink\u2026 I was probably about
    thirteen, sitting at my brothers\r\ndrafting table. He had an ink pen meant for
    sketching, and\r\nI picked it up and started drawing letters. I remember\r\nwatching
    the dark liquid become animated \u2013 so unlike the\r\nballpoint pens and markers
    I was used to. I was entranced.\r\nNot long after that, I bought my first calligraphy
    set and\r\nmy goal that summer was to spend one hour each day\r\npracticing. \r\n\r\nMy
    life since then has included long periods where I put\r\ncalligraphy aside, in
    favor of my work - design and\r\ntypography, but something keeps pulling me back
    to\r\ncalligraphy. The magazine \"Letter Arts Review has been\r\ninspirational
    and key to my picking up the pen again, many\r\ntimes. Over the years I have watched
    calligraphy grow and\r\nevolve on it's pages. Also, when I was younger, I knew
    I\r\nwould do more calligraphy when I was older \u2013 what a\r\nsurprise!, I'm
    older now! :)\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAS\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-04 20:04:16'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "\"I have a feeling that we\u2019ll find the US still has more active type
    designer per capita than any other country.\"\r\n\r\nNah, I don't think we'll
    find that's true. If we used \"per capita\" by its most frequent meaning it would
    not be true. The United States is a huge country and consists of many different
    states (regions). In a country so large there are differing mentalities and opinions
    that are often regional. Being a guy from the Mid-West who has lived on the East
    Coast and now the West Coast these places could all be different countries. New
    York City has more in common with London than it does with West Virginia. \r\n\r\nNow,
    if we were to use the per capita definition and apply it by state we might be
    on to something. But considering how concentrated the American population is on
    the extreme coasts I don't think it'd be accurate to use \"per capita\" in the
    U.S. I'd be willing to bet money that there are less than 7 type designers in
    South Dakota. \r\n\r\nEven in New York City I personally know of maybe two people
    who design typography. Groups of college friends deciding to start a type foundry
    together doesn't happen here in the U.S. very often, but I hear about it all the
    time in Europe.\r\n\r\nI think the U.S. has a basic lack of respect for the arts
    and design. There's too much of a \"get a real job mentality\" that persists here.
    If that weren't true, there would be more Ph.D. art and design programs as well
    as a Master's and Undergraduate type design programs. \r\n\r\nJust 'cuz I like
    drawing, don't mean I'm dumb."
  created: '2005-10-04 20:37:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "See this google battle.  \r\n \r\nhttp://www.googlebattle.com/index.php?domain=South+Dakota+typography&domain2=Netherlands+typography&submit=Go%21\r\n\r\nalthough
    the Netherlands beats South Dakota 2:1 the population of The Netherlands is almost
    twenty times that of South Dakota. Per capita South Dakota is ten times more typographic
    than the NL. \r\n\r\nSomewhat more seriously if you define a type designer as
    someone who has designed a font from scratch, either as a custom (non retail)
    design, a retail design, or created a freeware or shareware font in say the last
    five years I'd guess that you could easily find over 2000 US residents who would
    qualify. Could you find 100 Dutch or 200 Canadians? Possibly in the case of the
    Dutch but Canada, I doubt it.\r\n\r\nI think the US economy/education system encourages
    activities like type-design - I know there are plenty of part-time/hobbyist type
    designers out there (maybe they need a distraction from their day jobs or school
    work) and there are plenty of jack-of-all-trades graphic designers who are forced
    to dabble in type design with respect to paying projects. \r\n\r\nSi\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-04 20:57:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I'm not so sure about all of this, but I think more than Canada, there is
    definitely something in the water in the area around the Netherlands and Scandinavia.
    Not only type design, but design in general. Melding utilitarianism of what could
    be called modernism with the warmth and quaintness of another era long since forgotten.
    \r\n\r\nComparing is a dangerous thing. Better to simply appreciate that the world
    is made up of a wonderful variety which makes friendly competition spawn the desire
    for growth and improvement of self."
  children:
  - author:
      name: fractal
      picture: 110979
    body: "<cite>Comparing is a dangerous thing. Better to simply appreciate that
      the world is made up of a wonderful variety which makes friendly competition
      spawn the desire for growth and improvement of self.</cite>\r\n\r\nNow <cite>that</cite>
      is a very Canadian attitude. I agree wholeheartedly.\r\n\r\nUp with Canada!
      (but not so far up that some other country might think that we are claiming
      to be better than anyone else...  verily, even though we may think we have the
      best society on earth, we wouldn't want to make anyone feel bad about their
      own countries.)   :)\r\n\r\npd"
    created: '2005-10-04 23:18:48'
  created: '2005-10-04 21:54:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gee, I thought I was appreciating other parts of the world.  I didn't mean
    to start people thinking it was a Canada vs the U.S thing.  I didn't even mention
    the U.S. I was just attempting to compliment Canada on having such a positive
    affect on type design. My straw poll was just my experience on Typophile and the
    people I met at TypeCon. I don't think very highly of Bush either but he doesn't
    even know how to spell typography let alone affect it. \r\nI was kinda hoping
    for more stories like Chester's humorous yet acurate post above.  Chester, thanks
    for having a sense of humor.  You probably need it on cold Winter nights when
    your hard disk dies and you lose all of your work--at least you can swear in a
    couple of languages :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-05 00:43:47'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Chris, the winter was the reason I left Montr\xE9al for London. (Actually,
    it wasn't. Who needs an excuse to move to London?) In all events, I, like many
    of my fellow Canadians, did some time abroad. I am now based in New York, another
    place with winter."
  created: '2005-10-05 03:41:17'
- author:
    name: mosh
    picture: 109476
  body: "Jason:\r\n\r\nYou wrote \"(...) there is a century-long drive to define Canadian
    as not-American\"\r\n\r\nAre they pushing the country off the continent? I'll
    stay tuned to see how they finally manage to do it. ; )\r\n\r\n\r\n-An american
    colleague (from M\xE9xico)"
  created: '2005-10-05 15:30:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Winters in Pittsburgh Pennsylvania helped me decide to move to northern
    Virginia 30 years ago.  I would imagine the Canadian Winters to be even longer.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-05 15:54:47'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Canadians do have a sense of humour, if different in some ways from other
    parts of the world.\r\n\r\nWinter in my part of Canada  doesn't get cold until
    mid November and ends about mid February with the first blooming daffodils. I
    cringe when my fellow BCers make this statement in the presence of eastern Canadians,
    but in this case it seemed justified. The temperature here rarely drops colder
    than about 25 degrees Farenheit. That covers the Canadian Winter.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    whether or not Canada has a greater amount of type designers per sackful than
    the rest of the world: who cares?\r\n\r\nI believe that all of us involved in
    type design, whether in Zanzibar or Spuzzum, are drawn to it by its grace, truth
    and beauty.\r\n\r\nAnd now for a Canadian joke . . .\r\n\r\nJim\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-05 17:44:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I had never really thought about there being lots of Canadians involved in
    type, but perhaps because there is so little sense of community. I see Jim Rimmer
    from time to time, and Ross Mills of course, but apart from that I'm more likely
    to meet other Canadian type designers at conferences in Europe than I am to meet
    them at home. Nick Shinn lives so far away he might as well be in another country.
    If I want to play the western alienation card, I could say that he <em>is</em>
    in another country.
  created: '2005-10-05 18:25:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"... but perhaps because there is so little sense of community.\"\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    that is part of it all.  Type design seems a rather solitary endeavor where people
    work in solitude and meet occasionally at conferences. I met more Canadians at
    TypeCon (Nick Shinn among them) than Americans and it was held in NYC.\r\n\r\nJim,
    I'll have to visit western Canada during Winter but I won't squeal on you about
    the mild Winters to any of the eastern Canadians :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-05 18:46:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, maybe ATypI should organize geographic chapters?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-05 18:48:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The ATypI country delegate program allows for multiple country delegates,
    so you could easily have one in Western Canada and one in Eastern Canada, you
    could even have one for northern Canada perhaps representing the minority scripts
    used by the original Canadian communities. As mentioned earlier there was no Canadian
    delegate report this year, but I don't know if there's a current delegate or not.
    \r\n\r\nHaving said that you need the volunteers. We have two US delegates, unfortunately
    both located in the same town. Hopefully in my report I represented the whole
    country by asking various US-based type people to review and contribute to my
    report. \r\n\r\nSi\r\n "
  created: '2005-10-05 19:48:48'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Mosh, I was of course speaking ideologically (culturally, on the other hand,
    we're sucked right in to all that US hoopla and flash, but we seem to like to
    think we \"know better\"). As for geography, there's been a looming threat for
    decades of a giant earthquake swallowing Vancouver Island (where I live), so perhaps
    there is a collective mentality trying to move away from \"America\"?\r\n\r\nRegarding
    type design & typography, I think the point many up here would touch on is that
    romantic sense of isolation, wide open space, blah, blah; that is, finding somewhere
    quiet to focus on the work. Bringhurst seems a good example, tucked away in the
    trees of the Gulf Islands sculpting away on his laptop. "
  created: '2005-10-05 19:55:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Simon, is MS a US state, or a country?  :-)\r\n\r\nHermitism: to me, it's
    for artists, not craftsmen.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-05 20:30:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Simon, is MS a US state, or a country? :-) \r\n\r\nIt was certainly nice
    to be invited to contribute an MS report. I hope I gave appropriate credit to
    other technology companies who are innovating in the type and type technology
    space. I think Henrik had included non country reports in the past, and I hope
    his replacements do the same. I agree with those on the ATypI list that there
    should be room for delegates representing internationally used scripts and writing
    systems (eg Arabic & Cyrillic) but I think finding volunteers prepared to put
    in the effort will be hard.    "
  created: '2005-10-05 21:03:34'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Chris: Please look me up if you ever get to the west coast. Wear flip flops.\r\n\r\nJohn:
    You are right, there aren't many type designers here. Ted Staunton works away
    at it in Surrey, and that's about it as far as I know. Maybe there are heaps of
    type designers in Winnipeg, Toronto and Montreal.\r\n\r\nJim\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-05 21:15:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Wear flip flops.\"\r\n\r\nLOL!\r\n\r\nI sure will Jim:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-05 21:18:21'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Hey if you regionalize the type designers, maybe there is a type sports league
    to be formed. I could see the Canadian west coast team vs. the Canadian east coast
    team in a game of glyphs (what ever that is). Maybe you could even wear helmets
    with cute glyphs on them.
  created: '2005-10-05 22:35:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Glyph Hockey?\r\n\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-05 23:07:14'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Golf
  created: '2005-10-05 23:10:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Another idea for a typographic game show (like at TypeCon): Name That Font!
    The host reads a short description, then asks the participants how few glyphs
    then can name the font in. \"Tiffany, I can name that font in... one glyph!\"
    Would be a nice change from the classic type quizzes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-05 23:14:11'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "a typographic game show:\r\n\r\nGlyph of Fortune"
  created: '2005-10-05 23:18:30'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Canadians are physical types, something like Glyph hockey makes sense to me.
    Hey that was a two line pass! (Pro hockey starts its season tonight)
  created: '2005-10-05 23:18:50'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Off topic, dave did you back up your computer, its already the 5th.
  created: '2005-10-05 23:21:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Someone should start a thread on typographic gameshows - \"Iron Font\" would
    be my choice, with Kent Lew being the host.\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2005-10-06 00:03:12'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "I've gotta say this place is my first interaction with a community of typographers,
    but then I don't get out much. I've never met a typographer in Montreal, or in
    person. \r\nI stumbled on this (possibly following a link someone posted here)
    http://www.porchez.com/ateliertypo/?c=atelier+uqam\r\nand was stunned. I didn't
    know such things existed at UQAM. (Perhaps because I've had my head stuck in Concordia
    for too long... hmm. I wonder if ConU does stuff like this, too?)\r\n\r\nAs for
    winters, you Islanders, I'll post pictures of Montreal's massive snow banks and
    the fun I have parking my car (or shovelling it out) every morning... but it's
    better than 6 months of rain any day. You know You're in Montreal when the inside
    of your nose freezes and sticks together.\r\n\r\nKristina"
  created: '2005-10-07 03:22:59'
- author:
    name: Reg
  body: 'What about them, ellipsis...  You are what you eat, right? Then forget McDo.
    Great minds comes from  ... well, you guessed it. Large tempests that grow in
    the south seas, make their way slowly to the great white north, but not before
    leaving most of the useless particles behind them. What is left is of great advantage
    to the people of Canada, since type designers will benefit from what grows from
    the land. It is fair to say that it has to be a gift from the heavens. In the
    summer, (yes, there is summer over there) the country that is known to have igloos
    for shelter instead of houses as most south bordeans that could not pinpoint it
    on a globe are lead to believe, those icy blocks have a tendency to get a little
    softy, but winter wise are as hard as rock, just like metal typefaces. So then,
    creativity that comes from the land of the ice cubes is apparently a natural gift,
    enough to make jealousy grow in the world around them. PERIOD. '
  created: '2005-10-07 08:03:01'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: I don't know about the water, but I do know that the Belgian Luc Devroye who
    teaches at McGill University in Montreal, and to whom I look frequently for links
    to many many type sites as well as commentary, has probably inspired a few to
    become type designers, type geeks, whatever. Luc is at http://jeff.cs.mcgill.ca/~luc/fonts.html
  created: '2005-10-07 11:11:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kristina,\r\nMy family and I had a very lovely time in Montreal in 2001.
    \ The weather was pleasant, the food was good, the people were nice to us.  Did
    I mention that we were there in July?\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Kristina Drake
      picture: 110970
    body: "No, ChrisL, you didn't!\r\nGlad you had a good experience, hope you caught
      the jazz fest. (I think 2001 was before we started getting bad smog and when
      the Jazz fest still had decent free shows.)  Let me know if you and your family
      will be visiting again.\r\n\r\nCheers\r\nKristina"
    created: '2005-10-07 14:27:37'
  created: '2005-10-07 13:20:47'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "You gotta admit... it is quite an <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/country/ca/\"
    target=\"new\">impressive list</a>.\r\n\r\nYears ago I kept close contact with
    the folks at Cooper & Beatty, and with Les Usherwood at Typesettra.\r\n\r\n---------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in da style, aay?"
  created: '2005-10-07 14:54:49'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Kristina\r\n\r\nYou are correct; it does rain here in British Columbia. Why,
    I remember it once rained (I believe it was in the fall of 1963) for two hours
    straight. It was hell!\r\n\r\nJim\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-07 17:23:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...It was hell!\"\r\n\r\nThat's right Jim, keep those easterners away with
    horror stories.  You don't want them finding out the truth and moving west and
    crowding up the place :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: fractal
      picture: 110979
    body: "<cite>You know You\u2019re in Montreal when the inside of your nose freezes
      and sticks together.</cite>\r\n\r\nThere is a magic temperature where this occurs
      in the BC interior.\r\n\r\n-11C degrees.\r\n\r\nI could always bank on it.\r\n\r\npd"
    created: '2005-10-07 19:44:14'
  created: '2005-10-07 17:41:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Kristina, that jazz fest is the best. I listen to WBGO.org and they covered
    it live, they do an amazing job with that festival.
  created: '2005-10-07 21:40:28'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Off topic, dave did you back up your computer, its already the 5th.\r\n\r\nme?"
  created: '2005-10-07 22:26:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kristina,\r\nWe missed the Jazz Fest but that is just another reason to come
    back (in Summer of course:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-07 23:42:48'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Ok, ok... So it doesn't rain *all* the time in BC. ;) I had a wonderful trip
    there this summer, not a drop of rain.\r\nI admit it! I'm dealing with BC envy.
    There. \r\n\r\nYes, the Jazz fest definitely has plenty of wonderful things to
    offer, (Bugge Wesseltoft played it this year...) but you have to pay a whole lot
    for the good stuff. The free shows are a little stuck in a rut, and getting more
    commercial every year. \r\n\r\nDidn't want to turn this into an east/west thing...
    I'd move there if I could.\r\nK."
  created: '2005-10-08 00:14:46'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "Thanks Norbert and Jordy. That is an impressive list, and I enjoyed immersing
    myself in Luc Devroye's site.\r\nK."
  created: '2005-10-08 03:29:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019m not so sure about all of this, but I think more than Canada, there
    is definitely something in the water in the area around the Netherlands and Scandinavia.\r\n\r\nRelated:
    Harvard paper takes swing and Scandinavian Graphic Design, hm... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.harvardindependent.com/media/paper369/news/2005/10/13/Arts/Scandinavian.Fonts-1021835.shtml
    \r\n\r\nSi\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-15 05:47:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019d be willing to bet money that there are less than 7 type designers
    in South Dakota. \r\n\r\nLooks like South Dakota is not such a typographic no-mans-land
    after all. A newspaper article about the exhibit \"Alternative Typestyles\" on
    display at the University of South Dakota.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.argusleader.com/apps/pbcs.dll/article?AID=/20051016/LIFE/510160301/1004
    \r\n\r\nSi\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-16 21:21:23'
date: '2005-10-03 14:06:37'
title: What is it about Canadians and Type Design?

---
