---
author:
  name: silas
  picture: 110762
body: Can anyone offer any reason to release fonts in Type1 format anymore?
comments:
- author:
    name: as8
    picture: 109877
  body: "Maybe the clients.\r\n\r\nAS"
  created: '2005-10-04 21:21:04'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Thomas Phinney gave a talk on this at TypeCon. Based on that, I'd say no.
    He'd probably be able to go into more detail about it.
  created: '2005-10-04 21:28:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'is it really that difficult to create OT and PS? am i over-simplifying? '
  created: '2005-10-04 21:35:55'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "A cynical mind could say: \"Hm, you can license the the fonts twice.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe
    some old soft like quark need it since class based kerning is not accessible for
    them. \r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2005-10-04 21:37:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think it likely comes down to sales. If customers are buying Type 1 then
    you\u2019d be silly not to provide them. OS and app support isn\u2019t going to
    go away any time soon if ever.\r\n\r\nQuestion for Adam - are there python scripts
    that make it easy to generate multiple Type 1 fonts from a given OT font for all
    the character-sets and expert sets you might need? \r\n\r\nIf not, then best advice
    for a new foundry would be to advertise OpenType and put a \u2018PS Type 1 available
    on request\u2019 notice on the site. There will be customers who\u2019ll ask for
    them even if they don\u2019t really need them (education opportunity). And there
    are customers who will genuinely need the Type 1\u2019s (antiquated hardware etc.,)
    \r\n\r\nSi\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-04 21:41:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i hope you don't mind me moving this tread to the General Discussion area,
    i think this one deserves more coverage than what it might get if it's stuck in
    the Build section.
  created: '2005-10-04 21:49:18'
- author:
    name: ben_archer
    picture: 110367
  body: "Well moved, Paul.\r\n\r\nAt a glance, it would appear that PS Type 1 is now
    dead in the water, BUT it's a chicken-and-egg situation; the OpenType format represents
    a far smaller range than what we're now used to, because the collection is still
    being added to ('standard' faces being coverted from the 'standard' format). \r\n\r\nAt
    the university where I work the current debate is about which format type library
    we purchase next year on a pretty sizable site license; as I understand it, if
    we spend, say $30K, we get an OpenType library that is less than a quarter of
    the size of the corresponding PS Type 1 library - and the PS Type 1 library would
    only cost a third as much again at around $40K.\r\n\r\nIn type education terms,
    we might not need all 32 instances of Adobe Warnock Pro OTF - but we really do
    need all the weights of the Univers family, so my colleagues are still keen on
    going with the established formats and libraries ('standard' faces in the 'standard'
    format).\r\n\r\nIn these terms PS Type 1 still represents good value for money.
    However, continued sales of PS Type 1 libraries may subsequently act as a disincentive
    to people or foundries developing OpenType fonts, and that may mean it's taking
    longer to become the next established standard."
  created: '2005-10-04 22:55:28'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "I realize that there will always be PostScript fonts out there for whatever
    reason, but what is our role in the industry as font providers?  Should we push
    the technology forward?  Can we leverage the lagging software developers to catch
    up with the turning tide of font formats?  Why should an increasingly neglected
    app drag us down?  (Not to name names, but Extensis is dropping the ball, IMHO.
    \ I am an openly evangelistic InDesign advocate.)  \r\n\r\nWhat features does
    PS1 provide that make it worth using?\r\n\r\nSi brings up the important notion
    of educating the consumer.  I personally think that charging extra for multiple
    formats is a crock, and a disservice to the market at large.  Andreas gave a wink
    to this issue as well.\r\n\r\nTiffany: It's no hair off my back to generate three
    or even four different formats of a typeface.  Bless the magic of software.  Sure,
    there are some things that you can do differently across the TTF/PS divide (hinting
    and point placement), but again... FontLab automates all of this.  How many fontmakers
    take the time for this in the first place?\r\n\r\nThe real matter is that the
    entire computer industry is becoming more and more cross-platform friendly.  HP
    iPods?  Intel inside the next generation of Macs?  OSX already supports \"PC\"
    formatted TTFs.  I generate TTFs for my own use on my trusty old G4.\r\n\r\nWhy
    generate a platform-specific format in a cross-platform world?\r\n\r\n(Whew...
    Paul... thanks for moving the thread.  I think I open up more in the General Discussion
    Forum. heh)"
  created: '2005-10-04 23:08:54'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Ben: Thanks for the real world scenario.  It brings up some good points:\r\n\r\n1.)
    \ Real Value -vs- Bang-For-Your-Buck Value\r\n\r\n2.)  VHS to DVD Analogy:  Many
    old (crappy) flicks never saw the light of digital transfer.  Will we see some
    contemporary (or slightly dated) fonts fall between the cracks, only to be revived
    through grassroots/cult/pirate actions?\r\n\r\nAs this whole issue is economic
    at the core, it will take a progressive (ie: altruistic) movement to redirect
    the economics.  Not to make a call to arms, but I'd like to eradicate PS1 file
    clutter and orphaned font errors.  (I still find straggling outline files in my
    OSX Fonts folders.)"
  created: '2005-10-04 23:22:56'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I realize that there will always be PostScript fonts out there for whatever
    reason</em>\r\nNot if current software doesn't support them.\r\n\r\n<em>I personally
    think that charging extra for multiple formats is a crock, and a disservice to
    the market at large.</em>\r\ni think the way we do things here at P22 is pretty
    fair: We include the equivalent PS/TT fonts with our OT packages. So you should
    get all the same glyph options, except we don't do CE PS or TT fonts, so there
    you only get one option. But i'm sure if a user needed CE versions of PS fonts,
    we would do that service for them.\r\n\r\nI myself am not sorry to see PostScript
    fonts go the way of the world.  Just as you are a proponent of InDesign, i am
    of OpenType. I wish there were some way to make the transition easier on type
    users/consumers. I think this would be easier if the software support was in place.
    Just today I was dealing with a customer who couldn't get OT fonts to list correctly
    in Word for Mac. Hopefully these types of problems will be alleviated in the near
    future..."
  created: '2005-10-04 23:39:55'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Paul: P22 may be making the first step into a reasonable retail market, but
    why not provide TTFs with your PS1s, and vice versa?  At least make them available?\r\n\r\n\r\nThere
    are handy utilities for sale out there that do a reasonable job of converting
    between formats.  Why leave it to third parties to potentially muck up a font
    file with an automated, unauthorized process?  Why create the market for these
    third parties?  Why not educate the user and keep them close to your heart (and
    merchant account) with a nice, cozy hug... a cross-platform hug?\r\n\r\nThe majority
    of font users know what's up.  I'm talking about the design community.  (What
    design school grad hasn't made a font these days?)  The majority of users know
    how to piddle with Fontographer.  The rest have a third party font converter.
    \ They are also the ones that will take their commission expenses elsewhere when
    you're not on the level.\r\n\r\nIt's one thing to fleece the unwitting for another
    50% of the font price (such is business), but it's clearly another to perpetuate
    an outmoded practice and thereby stagnate the technology and our industry.  I'm
    not making qualifications, but if we're treating everyone like luddites, the informed
    will maintain their disdain for what amounts to price gouging.  Again, I think
    I'm echoing Andreas's 'cynical' consideration.\r\n\r\n(...and Paul, none of this
    is directed at you or P22 in particular, save for the initial question.  At T26,
    I was just as inhibited by manhours and fiscal demands to make such a giant leap
    into formats and revised marketing... even through a ground-up site redesign.
    \ Timing is perhaps everything?)"
  created: '2005-10-05 00:33:57'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: I hope Phinney steps in soon to share what I missed at TypeCon...
  created: '2005-10-05 00:35:03'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>P22 may be making the first step into a reasonable retail market, but
    why not provide TTFs with your PS1s, and vice versa?</em>\r\nwe do that as well."
  created: '2005-10-05 01:08:46'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: Regardless of platform?
  created: '2005-10-05 01:12:33'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'regardless. so for example, say you order <a href="http://www.p22.com/lanston/products/artscript.html">Artscript
    Pro</a>, for either platform you get 1 OT font, 2 TT fonts and 2 PS fonts. '
  created: '2005-10-05 01:33:56'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "I'm talking about packaging both PC and Mac font files in the same license.
    \ P22 charges the 50% Cross-Platform fee... http://www.p22.com/products/crossplat.html\r\n\r\nIt's
    one thing to charge more for a deluxe, 'Pro' opentype font, as it inherently contains
    more goodies.  To charge extra for a file that will work on the secondary platform
    is quickly losing relevancy.  Are there any distributors/foundries that are working
    to abolish this policy?\r\n\r\nHow often do folks purchase the Cross-Platform
    License?  After the T26 site redesign, sales reports showed that people actually
    would make the dual platform purchase, however infrequently.  How often do users
    actually <em>call</em> P22 to extend their license?  Likewise, I wonder how often
    they just convert the fonts themselves <em>in breach of the P22 EULA</em>.\r\n\r\nBack
    on topic... Who wants/needs to use PostScript fonts anymore?"
  created: '2005-10-05 02:16:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Si writes: <em>OS and app support isn\u2019t going to go away any time soon
    if ever.</em>\r\n\r\nMicrosoft's own Avalon graphics engines in Windows Vista
    does not include a Type 1 rasteriser. This means that apps written specifically
    for Avalon will not support Type 1 fonts. Apps that still use the older GDI engine
    will continue to support Type 1 fonts. That, at least, is my understanding of
    the current state of play.\r\n\r\nAt Tiro, we now have a policy of not making
    Type 1 fonts even if clients request them, and have turned down work on this basis.
    The main reason for this is the lack of QA tools for testing Type 1 fonts, and
    I don't like to ship software that I can't see inside. Compare the validation,
    comparison and testing tools for TT and CFF OpenType freely available from Microsoft
    and Adobe, and font table editing tools like TTX, to the kind of blindness in
    which we had to work on Type 1 fonts, just trusting that tools like Fontographer
    and FontLab were getting everything right. We wasted too many hours of our lives
    trying to simply identify bugs in Type 1 fonts, let alone trying to fix them.\r\n\r\nThe
    last time we shipped Type 1 fonts, one key output device in our client's print
    production workflow substituted incorrect characters, despite all other proofing
    devices handling the font correctly. How do you fix a problem like that? How can
    you assure the client that the font is made to spec when there are no validation
    tools to ensure conformance? Learning to interpret raw PS code didn't seem like
    a good use of a type designer's time.\r\n\r\nType 1 fonts? I spit on this arsewipe,
    ill-documented format. Good riddance."
  created: '2005-10-05 08:33:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Okay, so the last line is a bit over the top. I was wondering what obscenity
    I could sneak pass the Typophile autocensor. ;)
  created: '2005-10-05 08:35:45'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em>> I was wondering what obscenity I could sneak pass the Typophile autocensor.</em>\r\n\r\nAnything
    British/Canadian actually. And also sophisticated obscenities. David, Vince and
    I did a few tests in an old thread about the Typophile autocensor thingie, and
    it works fine. :^)\r\n\r\nNow <em>this</em> is funny -- I'm trying to find some
    obscenity to finish off my post and I can't think of any, for the one felching
    time I <em>really</em> need it! Bugger me senseless, I can be such a twat! Bollocks!"
  created: '2005-10-05 10:58:23'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "The initial question:\r\n> Can anyone offer any reason to release fonts in
    Type1 format anymore?\r\n\r\nAt this point, only for clients still using old software,
    which is surprisingly high. Amazingly, we still get calls from people (some from
    well known, to remain unamed, publications) that are running Quark 4 on OS 8.6.
    Yikes. This is the last quarter of 2005! It's hard to fathom but my best guess
    is that old habits, budgets, tradition and deadlines have combined to allow this
    situation.\r\n\r\nAnd to add to the testing portion of John's post...\r\nWe have
    yet to experience a customer problem with any of our OT fonts. Once thoroughly\r\ntested
    and generated, an OT font file is pretty bullet proof. If I had my way, I would
    delete\r\nall of the T1 files from my machine and only offer OT. Still waiting
    on that one...\r\n\r\nAnd one more thing... I was pleasantly surprised by the
    updated version of Bringhurst (v3.0) and page 180. In describing the evolution
    from 7 bit, 8 bit and finally 32 he adds:\r\n\"The extended ASCII character set
    is the alphabet not of the real world nor of the UN General Assembly but of NATO:
    a technological memento of the them-and-us mentality that thrived in the cold
    war\"."
  created: '2005-10-05 15:28:03'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em>> It\u2019s hard to fathom but my best guess is that old habits, budgets,
    tradition and deadlines have combined to allow this situation.</em>\r\n\r\nI notice
    time and again that creative people can be uncharacteristically conservative in
    their working methods. I mean, creativity is supposed to be all about change and
    adapting, isn't it? What's so hard about learning a couple of new shortcuts?"
  created: '2005-10-05 16:11:23'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Yes, yes... the pressures of budgets and deadlines.  I've spoken with a handful
    of sad, almost embarrassed people working for the big houses regarding their desire
    to make the InDesign switch.  Quark has such deep roots in the daily workflow
    of these places.\r\n\r\nFor a while it was also the service bureaus playing dead.
    \ I've seen a few leap into InDesign.  But they're in a different position...
    they need to meet the client's needs.  When enough of their clients are delivering
    PDFs or InDesign packages, they have to shift to meet the demand.\r\n\r\nQuark
    7 is supposed to support Unicode and advanced OTF features.  Ascender Corp here
    in Chicagoland is helping out with that.  I wonder what the status is...\r\n\r\nEoTS
    V.3!  Thus, my Christmas list begins."
  created: '2005-10-05 16:37:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, why not provide T1 fonts but with an explicit no-support warning?\r\nIt
    seems unfair to shun the format for people who are stuck with it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-05 16:41:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Microsoft\u2019s own Avalon graphics engines in Windows Vista does not include
    a Type 1 rasteriser. \r\n\r\nJohn, thanks for correcting me. This is true. Although
    Windows Vista includes the PS raterizer and offers exactly the same Type 1 support
    as Windows XP, the next generation development platform, Avalon, is a total re-write
    and does not support Type 1 currently and we have no plans to add support for
    it. So new apps developed for Avalon won't support Type 1. Office 12 for example
    does not use Avalon, so will continue to support Type 1 fonts. \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si   \r\n"
  created: '2005-10-05 16:43:10'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "I admit that the difference between the Quark and Adobe environments goes
    beyond a few keystrokes or shortcuts.  (Part of my disdain for Quark when everything
    apart from page layout is done in Illustrator/Photoshop.)  It's more akin to writing
    with your left or right hand... if you're not a trained ambidextrian.\r\n\r\nRegardless,
    and back on topic... doesn't Quark provide basic OTF support all the way back
    to v4 anyway?"
  created: '2005-10-05 16:50:37'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "OpenType fonts will work with current and older versions of Quark, but with
    some limitations. \r\n\r\nYou only get the first 200 or so characters--equivalent
    to MacRoman or Windows Latin-1, so they will seem just like plain old PostScript
    Type 1 or TrueType fonts. \r\n\r\nYou also get no OpenType feature support (ligatures,
    alternate figures, small caps, etc.). \r\n\r\nKerning will mostly work, but there
    may be combinations left out. OT fonts usually use class-based kerning. In order
    for kerning to work in, say, Quark 6, the OS has to create a table of kerning
    pairs derived from the class-based kerning. There is a limit to how big such a
    table can be. Class-based kerning can be the equivalent of thousands or even tens
    of thousands of kerning pairs, much higher than the limit in many cases. So a
    subset is used.\r\n\r\nIn most other respects, OT fonts behave the same as older
    font formats in Quark."
  created: '2005-10-05 17:39:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I bought Adobe's original version of Adobe Garamond OTF when it came out.
    \ I had quirky results with Quark 4.1 and gave up on the font at first. Later,
    when Adobe improved InDesign enough I dumped Quark (good riddance).  Of course
    Adobe then bundled its Garamond free with InD so I was out the original cost and
    had a font which I never was able to use. The new super-duper All-Pro version
    of Garamond is a fine piece of work and comes with CS2 if you choose it.  The
    only problems I have with OTF fonts now is with Microsoft products.  That is probably
    because most word processing users are not as picky about type as I am.  I understand
    Microsoft (as usual) is fixing all this in their next rev. I must add that I am
    using a Mac so whatever Avalon brings won't be of interest to me unless they port
    the improvements to Mac OS-X as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-05 20:47:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "That's funny. I haven't been on Typophile much this week because I've been
    busy at work. Among other things, creating content for my blog. And one of the
    first articles is on exactly this topic.\r\n\r\nSee http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    Ben wrote something above that confused me:\r\n\r\n\"At the university where I
    work the current debate is about which format type library we purchase next year
    on a pretty sizable site license; as I understand it, if we spend, say $30K, we
    get an OpenType library that is less than a quarter of the size of the corresponding
    PS Type 1 library - and the PS Type 1 library would only cost a third as much
    again at around $40K.\"\r\n\r\nIf you're talking Adobe's Font Folio, then the
    OpenType version has every font that the last Type 1 version has, and then some.
    The difference is that in conversion, some fonts have been merged. Thus the OpenType
    version has a lower apparent \"font count.\" But you're not missing anything that
    you had in Type 1. (There were about 30 fonts we didn't have the rights to convert,
    and those are still present in Type 1 format.)\r\n\r\nNow, the one caveat is that
    if you are using old-fashioned software like QuarkXPress (prior to version 7)
    or Word, then you won't be able to access the extended typographic goodies in
    the new OpenType fonts, so functionally you can get at less stuff. But if you
    are using, say, our Creative Suite applications, the new OpenType fonts are far
    more functional than the old Type 1.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-10-07 05:31:21'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Nice!  Thanks for the inside scoop, Thomas.  The blog is looking chock full
    of goodness already... keep it coming!\r\n\r\nSo, it's not so much a \"Goodbye,
    PostScript Type 1\" as it is a \"Hey! Type 1! How ya been, ol' timer? We should
    do some conversions sometime. Have your people call me.\""
  created: '2005-10-07 07:04:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Phinneous T. Bluster is right on time!  Thanks Thomas:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-07 13:36:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, why not provide T1 fonts but with an explicit no-support warning?
    It seems unfair to shun the format for people who are stuck with it.</em>\r\n\r\nWho
    is stuck with it? Some people have workflows that include software with 8-bit
    text encoding limitations, but almost all such software provides codepage support
    so can access more than 256 characters from a large font. I don't want to encourage
    8-bit hack encodings for typographic features, e.g. the Adobe 'expert set' encoding,
    but even if this is what the user wants this is an encoding issue not a format
    issue. Even if a user is truly limited to 8-bit fonts, this still doesn't imply
    a limitation to the Type 1 font format. I would happily ship TrueType or CFF fonts
    with specific 8-bit character set support if a client really needed them.\r\n\r\nAre
    there applications in current use* -- or perhaps output devices? -- that specifically
    require the Type 1 font format? There may be, but I can't think of any offhand.\r\n\r\n\r\n*
    By this I mean both that they are being used and that there are good reasons why
    a later version of the software cannot be used, e.g. because it doesn't exist
    or because of compatibility with some other aspect of the workflow."
  created: '2005-10-08 04:27:43'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Interestingly, over lunch I read the latest MacWorld about the Intel chip
    and beyond, and how it is possible that control over our own computers could be
    taken away from us. Geez, no shit, isn't that what all this is all about? and
    has been for some time. And, the harder it is made to actually make type, hey...
    Back to the pre-digital days.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-10-08 08:06:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Gerald, if all you want is the same level of functionality provided by a Type
    1 font, it is no more difficult to make an OpenType font than it ever was to make
    a Type 1 font. Actually, it is easier in some respects, and you only need to make
    one binary font file, not multiple files for each operating system, which I always
    found one of the most annoying aspects of the Type 1 format.
  created: '2005-10-08 08:29:00'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "<cite>\"...and how it is possible that control over our own computers could
    be taken away from us.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat is this, some Orwellian paranoia?"
  created: '2005-10-08 22:50:47'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Silas\r\n\r\nMore like the futuristic society in Well's The Time Machine.
    Apparently has something to do with the Intel chip that will implement \"trusted
    computing.\"\r\n\r\nJust a further extension of the seamless integration of today's
    plug and play computing.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2005-10-09 04:24:45'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>See http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography</cite>\r\n\r\nSpeaking of which,
    there's a problem with the nameplate (at least on Safari and Firefox on my Macs).
    The subtitle \"Thomas \"my other car is a sans serif\" Phinney is Adobe's Program
    Manager for Fonts & Core\" is fine, but the rest gets cut off by the white main
    text background."
  created: '2005-10-09 16:32:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "In Win IE there's no clipping but the spacing is tight. Tom's blog doesn't
    seem to match the style of the other Adobe blogs, eg. \r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/billmccoy/2005/10/index.html\r\n\r\nBut
    that's not such a bad thing. And his content is a cut above the others too.\r\n\r\nSi
    \ "
  created: '2005-10-09 19:10:10'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "The header/nameplate seems to look different in all my browser.  Maybe the
    best thing would be to make it into a graphic... I'm sure Thomas has Photoshop.
    \ =)\r\n\r\nGreat content, I'll be a regular reader for sure."
  created: '2005-10-09 19:30:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'so.....the bottom line: bye bye PS & TT?'
  created: '2005-10-10 02:59:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">the bottom line: bye bye PS & TT?\r\n\r\nWhere did you get this? OpenType
    is TrueType.\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2005-10-10 03:04:49'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'I know. Let''s put that way: bye bye PS & TT with 256 characters and cross
    platform font compatibility problems?'
  created: '2005-10-10 03:17:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "TT has always supported 64K glyphs\r\nWin TT have been installable on Mac
    OS since OS9? \r\n "
  created: '2005-10-10 03:27:03'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "<cite>Win TT have been installable on Mac OS since OS9?</cite>\r\n\r\nNope."
  created: '2005-10-11 16:44:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: With ATM version 4.6.2?
  created: '2005-10-11 19:54:43'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: Hmmm... I dont' know about 4.6.2.  Where's Phinney?
  created: '2005-10-14 23:32:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'London for St Bride conference - anyone else there? How''s it going? '
  created: '2005-10-15 01:18:20'
date: '2005-10-04 20:57:15'
node_type: forum
title: Goodbye, PostScript Type 1?

---
