---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: 'What do you guys think of the way this page allows you to resize your web text
  &#34;actively&#34; &#40;using those admittedly suspect magnifying-glass icons&#41;,
  maintaining a set of explicit pixel sizes that the author wants, independent of
  platform: <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://www.vcu.edu/engweb/transcendentalism/authors/thoreau/walden/chapter15.html"
  TARGET="_top">http://www.vcu.edu/engweb/transcendentalism/authors/thoreau/walden/chapter15.html</A>
  <BR> <BR>To me, as long as you have a compatible browser, this is the best solution
  to the generally hopeless case of properly presenting text on the web. But maybe
  I&#39;m missing something... <BR> <BR>hhp'
comments:
- author:
    name: kraftie
    picture: 110545
  body: ' This is a good solution, although tedious for the designer. To do it properly,
    you would need to create 8 different style sheets: 4 for mac, 4 for windows, then
    the accompanying javascript to identify the browser/platform, and load corresponding
    stylesheet. <BR> <BR>It works ... I just wish there was a more efficient way of
    handling the problem. '
  created: '2002-04-09 19:29:30'
- author:
    name: spiral
    picture: 110473
  body: ' true, it is a bit time.-consuming, but you don&#39;t have to code as many
    stylesheets. take a look at the text options on a list apart &#40;<A HREF="http://www.alistapart.com/"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.alistapart.com/</A>&#41;, with only 2 options, &#40;small
    sans/large serif&#41; you have very visually different choices '
  created: '2002-04-09 19:49:29'
- author:
    name: kraftie
    picture: 110545
  body: ' right, but you still need to account for on-screen text size differences
    according to platform to truly keep it consistent. Not to mention: <BR> <BR>&#62;
    the buttons do not yet work in the Opera browser '
  created: '2002-04-09 19:55:39'
- author:
    name: kraftie
    picture: 110545
  body: 'oops, add one more style sheet for the &#34;printer friendly&#34; version:
    <BR>&#40; &#60;link rel=&#34;stylesheet&#34; type=&#34;text/css&#34; media=&#34;print&#34;
    href=&#34;/print.css&#34; /&#62; &#41;'
  created: '2002-04-09 19:58:09'
- author:
    name: josephstalin
  body: ' This page doesn&#39;t work in navigator, so clearly scheme doesn&#39;t work.
    <BR> <BR>FWIW, it&#39;s a waste of time anyway, because all &#34;modern&#34; browsers
    have &#34;text zoom&#34;. <BR> <BR>There&#39;s no issue with size differences
    between platforms if you&#39;ve coded the &#40;single&#41; style sheet properly. '
  created: '2002-04-10 19:13:42'
- author:
    name: kraftie
    picture: 110545
  body: ' &#62; There&#39;s no issue with size differences between platforms if you&#39;ve
    coded the &#40;single&#41; style sheet properly.  <BR> <BR>Am I to assume that
    you mean setting the type sizes in pixels? There is still a bit of a difference. '
  created: '2002-04-10 19:26:31'
- author:
    name: josephstalin
  body: ' Kevin, I&#39;m not really understanding what you&#39;re meaning. The only
    difference between platforms is the same difference you&#39;re going to get on
    the same platform, ie screen resolution, or pixel size. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s not
    a platform issue, it&#39;s a physical screen in front of you issue. '
  created: '2002-04-10 20:45:11'
- author:
    name: kraftie
    picture: 110545
  body: ' &#62; The Mac will generally render your typeface in a smaller pixel size
    than the PC will.  <BR> <BR><A HREF="http://www.netmechanic.com/browser-photo/tutorial.htm"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.netmechanic.com/browser-photo/tutorial.htm</A>#1.3 '
  created: '2002-04-10 21:03:12'
- author:
    name: josephstalin
  body: ' &#62;You can avoid this problem is &#91;sic&#93; you use  <BR>&#62;Cascading
    Style Sheets to set your font  <BR>&#62;size in pixels. <BR> <BR>Same paragraph. '
  created: '2002-04-10 21:14:12'
- author:
    name: kraftie
    picture: 110545
  body: ' joe, <BR>Since you probably know more about this than I do, let me ask you
    this: <BR> <BR>When I set type using Verdana at 10px, why is there a noticeable
    difference when viewed on a pc vs. my mac? Is is just screen res then? What is
    the solution? '
  created: '2002-04-10 21:27:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; What is the solution? <BR> <BR>I&#39;m not Joe, but the reason I brought
    up that link/technique is because it&#39;s the only way to really do it right
    - if you think the whole mess through. <BR> <BR>BTW, Netscape has much more serious
    problems than not being able to handle that page... <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-10 22:05:10'
- author:
    name: kraftie
    picture: 110545
  body: ' i agree, but i assume that you would agree that this is unfortunate. '
  created: '2002-04-10 22:33:58'
- author:
    name: josephstalin
  body: ' Kevin, the solution is to have the same size screens running at the same
    res on every desk. <BR> <BR>ie there is no solution. <BR> <BR>Look at your own
    screen, I don&#39;t know what you&#39;re running, but with any Mac you can just
    switch resolution via the control strip - mine goes from 640&#42;480 up to 1920&#42;1080.
    As you can imagine, from my viewpoint, switching between those ranges of resolutions
    is going to result in vastly different physical text sizes. <BR> <BR>But, 10 pixels
    is always 10 pixels. <BR> <BR>The ideal solution is to use ems as measuring units
    - but MS fcuked this up for the world by making everyone think that a good default
    text size is 18px - wrong, wrong wrong. <BR> <BR>On most screens a good base text
    size is more like about 12px, some are going to want to go up to 14px or so. <BR>
    <BR>Clever people are going to try to set their preferences to a base font size
    that works for them, while 90% of the web designers &#91;sic&#93; out there are
    thinking to themselves &#34;this 18px default is far to big, I&#39;m gonna have
    to size that down to  &#40;fontsize&#41; &#34;2&#34; or 0.75em...&#34; and the
    smart people go &#34;huh, what&#39;s wrong with these jerk off designers, I can&#39;t
    read this stuff!?&#34;. <BR> <BR>Making sense, probably not. <BR> <BR>Here, tip
    from the top: if you&#39;re thinking to yourself &#34;10px&#34; is excellent text
    size, think again. 10px is legible on most screens, I have a problem with it on
    large screens and would rather have 12px - but that&#39;s not the real problem.
    The real problem is that you &#42;cannot&#42; go much below 10px, you can only
    realistically go to 9px. <BR> <BR>There aren&#39;t enough pixels to rasterise
    text at 8px &#40;specialist bitmaps aside&#41;. <BR> <BR>So, if your text is 10px,
    and you want a picture caption/credit - you&#39;ve only got 9px to go to, and
    there really isn&#39;t enough differentiation in the rasterised text to really
    show that you&#39;ve done anything &#40;it&#39;s not like 10pt and 9pt at high
    res&#41;. <BR> <BR>So go with 12px, you can then get some decent differentiation
    by going to 10px for small bits. Those &#40;few&#41; that genuinely find 12px
    too big can use the text zoom to get down to 90%, those that find it too small
    can go up to 120%. <BR> <BR>So go for the middle 80%. <BR> <BR>I know as web designers
    we all get stuck in &#34;it&#39;s got to be 600&#42;800&#34;, but the reality
    is that most people are running 1024&#42;768 and higher. <BR> <BR> <BR>Joe '
  created: '2002-04-10 23:50:45'
- author:
    name: josephstalin
  body: ' Sorry, the only way to &#34;do it right&#34; is to size text in px and educate
    users that there&#39;s such a thing as text zoom. <BR> <BR>You need users to understand
    what&#39;s going on, not give thema a set of &#40;site dependent&#41; buttons
    to click, that don&#39;t actually work in all browsers. <BR> <BR>What happens
    when they go to the next page, the JS variable isn&#39;t going to get carried
    over unless you do a lot of over-engineering in your HTML. <BR> <BR>Recipe for
    disaster. <BR> <BR> <BR>Joe '
  created: '2002-04-10 23:56:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; the only way to &#34;do it right&#34; is to size text in px and educate
    users that there&#39;s such a thing as text zoom. <BR> <BR>Clive, you&#39;re too
    anti-user. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-11 00:10:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'I meant this guy: <BR><A HREF="http://www.clivebarker.com/" TARGET="_top">http://www.clivebarker.com/</A>
    <BR>Of course. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2002-04-11 00:20:51'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' Our comrade raises a lot of good points. Why  <BR>recreate functionality
    that a browser can do?  <BR>Especially when you can only do it poorly at  <BR>best?
    <BR> <BR>This isn&#39;t a question of being &#39;user friendly&#39; it&#39;s  <BR>a
    matter of practicality. <BR> <BR>Regarding the size differences Kevin brings up:
    <BR>I think this is not a difference between Mac and  <BR>PC, it&#39;s the difference
    between Internet Explorer <BR>and Netscape &#40;it&#39;s platform independent&#41;.
    <BR> <BR>Try this: if you&#39;re running IE, go to your <BR>preferences and select
    &#34;Language/Fonts&#34; and  <BR>notice the default resolution is 96 dpi, while
    in  <BR>Netscape I believe it&#39;s 72 with no option to  <BR>change it. When
    I change this setting to 72 it&#39;s  <BR>much more true to what I&#39;m used
    to in Netscape. <BR> <BR>Question: Is the whole Windows OS 96dpi? That&#39;s  <BR>my
    suspicion but I&#39;m not sure. <BR> <BR> <BR>The other Joe '
  created: '2002-04-11 06:05:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Joe: <BR>1. There are nominal-dpi differences on many levels, including
    platform. <BR>2. Browser sizing controls are too out-of-sight/out-of-mind. <BR>
    <BR>The only &#34;valid&#34; overall reason to dislike the &#42;type&#42; of solution
    in Ron Koster&#39;s page &#40;if not his exact implementation&#41; is if you&#39;re
    an html purist who values &#34;elegance&#34; more than real-world functionality.
    And I put &#34;valid&#34; in quotes because of a simple fact: &#42;users&#42;
    are not html purists, and web sites are for users. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-11 06:52:00'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' Do you mean design purist? If that&#39;s what you  <BR>mean, then I&#39;m
    guilty as charged. &#40;HTML is not  <BR>a pure art. People have been breaking
    HTML  <BR>to make it work since before Al Gore invented  <BR>the &#39;net.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>On the web there are a hundred things that  <BR>are beyond a designer&#39;s
    control &#40;color,  <BR>resolution, browsers, fonts, platforms,  <BR>plugins&#41;.
    I&#39;m all for reigning in what I can.  <BR>Which means I want to know what px
    size my  <BR>user&#39;s type is in order to craft that experience. <BR> <BR>My
    take: if you have a really long block of  <BR>content, run it in a narrower column
    with  <BR>slightly more line spacing. Or break it into  <BR>more pages with appropriate
    pacing so the  <BR>reader can pause briefly between chunks of  <BR>content &#40;like
    we&#39;ve tried to do in our articles&#41;.  <BR>Or better still, provide a printable
    version or  <BR>PDF. <BR> <BR>I dread the day when web sites are designed  <BR>for
    the lowest common denominator. Jakob  <BR>Nielsen can have the all Arial, all
    vanilla  <BR>web. <BR> <BR>Now that I&#39;m finished ranting, please don&#39;t
    <BR>put me into a black and white, &#34;for users or <BR>against users&#34; camp.
    There may be very <BR>viable--albeit few--instances to use this text  <BR>resizing
    thing... <BR> <BR>In the end, I&#39;m a believer in making decisions  <BR>based
    on the maximum benefit to the  <BR>maximum number of users &#40;but again, not
    the  <BR>lowest common denominator.&#41; <BR> <BR>//jp '
  created: '2002-04-11 08:32:58'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' I have to agree on the Netscape issue. Let&#39;s  <BR>all let that browser
    die quietly and quickly while we  <BR>silently mourn the death of that slow-to-change
    <BR>underdog. &#40;I had an easier time fighting for NS <BR>when it wasn&#39;t
    an AOL product.&#41; <BR> <BR>I finally had to switch browsers &#40;to an MS product,  <BR>&#42;gasp&#42;&#41;
    when I discovered that IE displays sites <BR>much more reliably and with much
    more stability <BR>on my Mac. It was a sad but  liberating day. '
  created: '2002-04-11 08:44:29'
- author:
    name: Jared Benson
    picture: 109417
  body: ' Too true. I clung to Netscape almost as religiously as being a Mac user
    - until I realized that IE was consistently much more stable and reliable.  <BR>
    <BR>I still have a hard time looking myself in the mirror, but at least my code
    renders the way I intend it. <BR> <BR>Of course, I never upgraded past Netscape
    4.7. After seeing what AOL did to subsequent versions, I couldn&#39;t use it.
    <BR> <BR>jb '
  created: '2002-04-11 15:26:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; I&#39;m all for reigning in what I can. <BR> <BR>Then we&#39;re in
    the same camp! <BR> <BR>&#62; It was a sad but liberating day. <BR> <BR>Nicely
    said. IE is simply better. Armenian proverb: <BR> <BR>&#34;Dzour nsdink, shidag
    khosink.&#34; <BR>&#34;Let&#39;s sit crooked, but talk straight.&#34; <BR> <BR>However,
    a confession. Because: <BR>1. I don&#39;t browse to new sites very often, <BR>2.
    The sites I do go to behave well in NS4.7x, <BR>3. and I suffer from a &#34;legacy
    email&#34; situation: 30,000 old emails in NS that I can&#39;t live without, <BR>I
    still use NS more than IE!  :-/ <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-11 15:40:30'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: ' If you are on a mac you should try omni web. It&#39;s buggy still, but it
    uses the OS X rendering engine to display it&#39;s type, widgets, etc. and looks
    pretty sharp. Obviosly most sites aren&#39;t designed to be rendered this way,
    and some look a bit odd, but it&#39;s worth checking out as a one day possible
    alternative.  <BR> <BR>cr '
  created: '2002-04-11 17:33:14'
- author:
    name: josephstalin
  body: ' Posts missing!? <BR> <BR>Clive Barker: site has no style sheets, and is
    poorly designed and coded. Is that what you meant? <BR> <BR>Netscape 4.79 is browser
    of choice for one reason alone: it doesn&#39;t tolerate mistakes in code as IE
    does. Also, given the developing nature of CSS it&#39;s a prerequisit to test
    in multiple browsers. <BR> <BR>The issue with the highlighted page is that the
    functionality doesn&#39;t carry from page to page within the site, and it&#39;s
    poor user interface design to rely on something that will change in implementation
    from site to site &#40;or even page to page&#41;. Built-in browser functionality
    is preferable, and more consistent. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s such a good idea that MS
    stole the idea from it&#39;s Mac Business Unit and put it into Win browsers too.
    <BR> <BR>The latest Nav/Mozilla releases are both stable and fast, something IE
    on the Mac hasn&#39;t been up to 5.1.3 &#40;everything before was a dog!&#41;.
    Mac IE 5.1.3 still has bugs with encoding and form submission, but it is getting
    better. <BR> <BR>The one thing IE does better than Nav 4.x is render complex tables
    quickly - but the Nav/Mozilla 6.x releases make up for that. <BR> <BR>As for consistency
    - sure IE is more consistent, but that&#39;s just because so many people &#40;idiots&#41;
    use it as their benchmark and don&#39;t test in other browsers. <BR> <BR>The really
    dumb thing about IE up to the most recent releases was that the Win version running
    under emulation in VPC was faster than the &#34;native&#34; Mac version!? '
  created: '2002-04-11 17:33:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; it doesn&#39;t tolerate mistakes in code <BR> <BR>Yes, intolerance
    is a great virtue. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-11 17:36:19'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: ' You spin, I am gravity. '
  created: '2002-04-11 19:45:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Almost. <BR>&#34;You spin - I am gravity.&#34; <BR> <BR>And if you think
    punctuation is secondary: <BR><A HREF="http://listserv.heanet.ie/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0204&amp;L=typo-l&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=4614"
    TARGET="_top">http://listserv.heanet.ie/cgi-bin/wa?A2=ind0204&amp;L=typo-l&amp;F=&amp;S=&amp;P=4614</A>
    <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2002-04-11 19:53:04'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: ' An em dash would be funnier. '
  created: '2002-04-11 19:59:51'
- author:
    name: gulliver
    picture: 110581
  body: ' &#34;You spin - I am an en dash&#34;?! '
  created: '2002-04-13 01:52:18'
- author:
    name: spiral
    picture: 110473
  body: ' C. Stalin: &#34;The one thing IE does better than Nav 4.x is render complex
    tables quickly&#34; <BR> <BR>Nope, the one and important thing it does better
    is comply with standards--still does not do it completely, but will handle a standards-compliant
    page MUCH better than Netscape 4.x '
  created: '2002-04-15 16:28:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: -deleted-
  created: '2002-04-16 16:58:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: -deleted-
  created: '2002-04-16 19:03:19'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: -deleted-
  created: '2002-04-16 19:03:19'
- author:
    name: josephstalin
  body: -deleted-
  created: '2002-04-16 20:14:32'
- author:
    name: josephstalin
  body: ' Kermie, I still find IE a bit of a dog, I also think you have to put the
    whole thing in a little bit of historical context. I like Nav 4.x because it&#39;s
    low overhead &#40;processor, memory and HD&#41; and it&#39;s pretty stable. IE
    renders... how people think they want things to render, but it&#39;s a processor
    hog, it wants plenty of RAM and at regular intervals it just stops working. <BR>
    <BR>Although, 5.1.3 is much improved over 5.0. <BR> <BR>On the other hand we have
    several &#39;Zilla/Gecko based browsers - which are standards compliant - if a
    little wobbly. <BR> <BR>The historical angle with Nav 4.x is that it&#39;s old
    code, I think v4 was launched about 98, when IE was truly... not good. <BR> <BR>As
    far as standard compliance goes, we wouldn&#39;t have gotten very far if Netscape
    hadn&#39;t pushed the boundries - tables were a Netscape, unofficial, extension
    to the HTML spec. '
  created: '2002-04-16 22:01:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' Clive, I think your obviously strong dislike of MS is preventing you from
    seeing what most of us clearly do: overall, IE is a better browser &#40;irrespective
    of how it got there&#41;. <BR> <BR>I happen to use NS4.7x, but simply because
    I have a massive &#34;legacy email&#34; situation, and the handful of sites I
    go to are adequately stable under NS. But whenever somebody points me to a new
    site, I simply dread clicking on the link, and like one time out of four my dread
    ends up being justified! :-/  In which case I fire up IE, and go to that site,
    with very rarely a problem. <BR> <BR>Use the newer versions of NS? There are more
    horror stories there. <BR> <BR>The bottom line is this: <BR>Compliance, shmompliance
    - people need tools that &#42;work&#42;. <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-16 22:13:29'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' Comrade Stalin, <BR> <BR>You&#39;re absolutely right... had it not been
    for  <BR>the browser wars of 97 through &#39;00&#43; we wouldn&#39;t  <BR>be where
    we are right now. Just supporting the  <BR>old addage about competition being
    good for the  <BR>consumer... <BR> <BR>&#40;Let Karl keep rolling in that grave.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>So, it&#39;s a double edged sword. If everybody moves  <BR>over to IE
    there will be stagnation there. But  <BR>then again, if everybody moves over to
    IE, we can  <BR>spend our time developing rich experiences and  <BR>not testing
    against a huge amount of variables... '
  created: '2002-04-16 22:28:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ' &#62; competition being good for the consumer... <BR> <BR>Long live sweat
    shops! <BR> <BR>hhp '
  created: '2002-04-16 22:34:15'
- author:
    name: josephstalin
  body: Joe, long term I think it&#39;s a mistake to not &#34;test against a huge
    amount of variables&#34; -  web sites take just as long, if not longer, as print
    to put together. Some of those sites are going to be &#34;historical records&#34;.
    <BR> <BR>Right now there aren&#39;t many sites that have been up, and intact,
    for four years or more, but I&#39;ve certainly worked on &#34;sub-sites&#34; that
    are pretty much intact from the day they first went up - in that time period.
    <BR> <BR>No one is really going to want to come along five or ten years later
    and tear those things apart again to make them work &#40;because someone relied
    on the dominant browser of the time - which had non-standard features&#41;. Clean
    code is your future - no one wants to go back and do it again, elegance in code
    is just as evident as elegance in design. <BR> <BR>Four year&#39;s ago IE had
    next to no market share, things will change as development goes on in the morass
    that is HTML development. Right now, IMO the market choice for browsers is richer
    than it&#39;s ever been - there are at least three different Gecko-based browsers,
    IE, iCab, OmniWeb and Opera - just for the Mac. The 6.x releases of Mozilla and
    Netscape are pulling together nicely, the other Gecko browser, Chimera has some
    nice features and is well integrated into MacOS X. <BR> <BR>With AOL switching
    its browser to a Netscape-based offering it&#39;s clear to me that the competition
    is far from over. <BR> <BR>&#60;blink&#62;&#34;My name is Joe&#34;&#60;/blink&#62;
    &#40;too&#41;
  created: '2002-04-17 01:10:38'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: ' Typophile stats are pretty telling. Traditionally  <BR>the Mac has been
    the bastian for Netscape.  <BR>&#40;You know the whole underdog/anti MS thing.  <BR>IE
    wasn&#39;t tied to the OS like it was on Windows.&#41;  <BR>I think two years
    ago, about 50% of Mac users  <BR>were on NS. <BR> <BR>So looking at our statistics
    and seeing that  <BR>55% of our users are on Macs you&#39;d think our  <BR>total
    browser stats would reflect something  <BR>like 30% Netscape. <BR> <BR>Typophile.com
    Browser Stats for March &#39;02 by  <BR>number of requests: <BR> <BR>188797: IE
    <BR>_25568: Netscape <BR>__2560: URL_Access <BR>__1430: Netscape &#40;compatible&#41;
    <BR>___875: Opera <BR> <BR>That, about 12% NS among an audience  <BR>that&#39;s
    55% Mac. Two years ago it would&#39;ve  <BR>been more like 50% Netscape. <BR>
    <BR>Anybody else see trends like this among Mac  <BR>users? &#40;This is no surprise
    to the PC crowd.&#41; '
  created: '2002-04-17 01:25:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Just to reinforce your point: In the overall, and unlike at Typophile, almost
    all users &#40;about 95%&#41; are on Windows - for better or worse. <BR> <BR>BTW,
    here&#39;s a great source for detailed stats: <BR><A HREF="http://www.TheCounter.com/stats/"
    TARGET="_top">http://www.TheCounter.com/stats/</A> <BR> <BR>Example: comparing
    April 2001 to April 2002, NS has dropped from 10% to 5%. <BR> <BR>hhp'
  created: '2002-04-17 02:45:30'
- author:
    name: josephstalin
  body: ' Joe, certainly, the stats have changed. But certainly they&#39;ll change
    again. AOL has a huge influence - globally, cross-platform. <BR> <BR>Also you
    have to remember that for most Mac installs over the last three years &#40;perhaps
    more&#41; the default &#40;and often only&#41; browser was IE - installed by Apple.
    <BR> <BR>As I wrote before IE 5.1.3 is a decent browser - the first time I could
    say that about IE &#40;note, recently updated to 5.1.4, due, surprise, surprise,
    to security issues&#41; - but it still tends to launch into Classic when running
    X!? <BR> <BR>Anyone who&#39;s had to develop web sites knows that IE 5.0 was a
    dog &#40;real encoding issues on forms, complicated by poor memory management&#41;,
    and IE 4.5 for Mac was the main reason many sites couldn&#39;t be developed with
    fairly advanced DHTML. <BR> <BR>Nav 4.7 may be a bit of a clunker, but it is solid.
    <BR> <BR>Going out for a late lunch booze-up you guys will have to continue on
    your own! '
  created: '2002-04-17 03:21:34'
date: '2002-04-09 16:11:59'
title: Active Text Resizing

---
