---
author:
  name: Sebastian Nagel
  picture: 109594
body: "Dear forum-Members,\r\n\r\n<strong>------------------- edit July 2010 ------------------</strong>\r\n\r\nDear
  members of this forum \u2013 Tierra Nueva is finally out, released in July 2010.
  You can find <a href=\"http://fonts.info/info/en_tierra-nueva.htm\">more information
  here</a>, and the <a href=\"http://www.fonts.info/dlcounter/DrWeb_DownloadZaehler.php?d=10\">final
  specimen here</a>.\r\n\r\nPurchase is available via www.fonts.info and myfonts.com.\r\n\r\nAs
  this project was started here on typophile.com, I will leave the text below, from
  2005 till now in a as-is state for documentation.\r\n\r\n<strong>--------------------------------------------------------</strong>\r\n\r\n\r\nin
  my leisure-time I am working on a font inspired by an spanish map of america made
  in the year 1561. The Map has hundreds of letters and a lot of illustration (sea-monsters,
  native americans, etc.) on it, I think it's made by copperplace engraving (or at
  least by another form of engraving).\r\n\r\nThere is enough material to make a roman,
  italic and capital display font with a lot of ligatures, flourishes etc. of it.
  At the moment, i am experimenting on the roman and have started selecting glyphs
  for the italic version.\r\n\r\nI guess i have worked too long without feedback (as
  you can see, i have created many ligatures and diacritics already), so it's over
  time already to show it somebody...\r\n\r\nMy method is to select some glyphs from
  the map (they vary, there is no \"typical A\"), do a 1:1-redraw, adjust and modify
  it trying to keep the original impression (with some exceptions). I also added some
  of the letters that are not availiable on the map, as it is in spanish and latin
  (missing U, missing Z,z, etc.). The original figures are all lowercase, the uppercase
  ones are derived from them.\r\n\r\nThere are certainly some problems with some glyphs
  at the moment (for example C, S, Z, K, W k, s, w, 2, 8, too wide f-ligatures and/or
  too narrow longs-ligatures, i am sure you'll find more of them). \r\n\r\nI would
  be thankful if you could take a look at it, comparing it with the original letters,
  and telling me what you would do different, I just need some feedback before I can
  go further with it...\r\n\r\nLast thing: I am planning to call it \"Terra Nova\".
  Objection? Suggestions?\r\n\r\nThanks a lot for your help\r\nsebilar\r\n\r\n\r\nps.:
  if I am already posting: are there any guides, tutorials, FAQs, frequently made
  errors, etc. how to start working on a font concerning the technical matters (opentype,
  ligatures, encoding, etc.)? I am trying to lern a lot about it at the moment, but
  it's just collecting and combining pieces of information and do trial and error..."
comments:
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: what kind of file is the attachment supposed to be?
  created: '2005-10-08 23:44:37'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "ok, something went wrong with the attachement...\r\n\r\nHere's an external
    link to the PDF: http://www.consolution.at/terranova_v027.pdf"
  created: '2005-10-09 00:09:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is pretty cool (and I don't generally like this kind of thing).\r\n\r\n\"a\":
    The top needs a lot more character.\r\n\r\n\"g\": Too cartoony. Make the ear more
    irregular, and offet the ends of the bottom bowl so they don't look like they're
    supposed to be connecting.\r\n\r\n\"k\": Arms no good - try staggering them -
    and maybe some more flair.\r\n\r\n\"v\"/\"w\"/\"x\": Too wide.\r\n\r\n\"y\": That
    huge leftmost serif is going to give you grief.\r\n\r\n\"G\": Looks dorky with
    such a prominent top.\r\n\r\n\"M\": Too strange.\r\n\r\n\"Q\": Right on!\r\n\r\n\"W\":
    Too much.\r\n\r\nCedilla marks: lousy.\r\n\r\nO-Slash: the slash could have more
    zing.\r\n\r\ni-dieresis: wassup with the high diacritic?\r\n\r\noe: tilt the bar.\r\n\r\nThe
    ligs are cool. For the \"fb\"/\"ffb\" though I might leave the bar unconnected
    to the stem of the \"b\".\r\n\r\nNumerals: I guess you've based them on the original?
    I would avoid them - make your own.\r\n\r\nI think this has good potential - keep
    it up!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-09 04:13:44'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Hello Hrant,\r\n\r\nthanks a lot for your feedback.\r\n\r\nThere is a new
    Version to look at here:\r\nhttp://www.consolution.at/terranova_v028.pdf\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n>>
    \u201Ca\u201D: The top needs a lot more character.\r\nnew version, not good yet
    i think\r\n\r\n>> \u201Cg\u201D: Too cartoony. Make the ear more irregular, and
    offet the ends of the bottom bowl so they don\u2019t look like they\u2019re supposed
    to be connecting.\r\nnew version.\r\n\r\n>> \u201Ck\u201D: Arms no good - try
    staggering them - and maybe some more flair.\r\ncomplete redraw, but maybe it's
    too vivid/thin now.\r\nI never liked the k...\r\n\r\n>> \u201Cv\u201D/\u201Dw\u201D/\u201Dx\u201D:
    Too wide.\r\nnew versions.\r\n\r\n>> \u201Cy\u201D: That huge leftmost serif is
    going to give you grief.\r\nI shortened a bit now, but i have to compare it to
    the original yet.\r\nSomehow the guy in 1561 did it with the long one...\r\n\r\n>>
    \u201CG\u201D: Looks dorky with such a prominent top.\r\ntried something. Not
    sure about it yet...\r\n\r\n>> \u201CM\u201D: Too strange.\r\ntoo wide?\r\n\r\n>>
    \u201CQ\u201D: Right on!\r\n:)  not sure whether this Q ist from the italic version,
    but i think it fits, that's why i took it for roman too.\r\n\r\n>> \u201CW\u201D:
    Too much.\r\nnew version. simplified.\r\nBut maybe i should do a version without
    the middle serifes.\r\n\r\n>> Cedilla marks: lousy.\r\n:) i know... complete redraw.
    Maybe better now, but i need to think about it.\r\n\r\n>> O-Slash: the slash could
    have more zing.\r\ni hope i got the *zing* :)\r\n\r\n>> i-dieresis: wassup with
    the high diacritic?\r\nsome positioning-error. new version.\r\n\r\n>> oe: tilt
    the bar.\r\ndone. new version.\r\n\r\n>> The ligs are cool. For the \u201Cfb\u201D/\u201Dffb\u201D
    though I might leave the bar unconnected to the stem of the \u201Cb\u201D.\r\nThe
    version of fb and ffb now even has the bulge of the b beeing raised. i will undo
    that i think.\r\nWith \"bar\", do you mean the bar of the \"f\" that is connected
    to the stem of the b, or the \"error\" described the line above? If it's about
    the f-bar: what is the reason to unconnect them?\r\nfk and ffk longsk and longslongsk
    is not yet updated with new experimental k.\r\n\r\n>> Numerals: I guess you\u2019ve
    based them on the original? I would avoid them - make your own.\r\nyes, they are
    based on the original now (the lowercase numerals, the uppercase ones are derived
    by me).\r\nWhat is the reason for redrawing (all of) them? I understand about
    the 2, 6 and 8, maybe even the 5.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks for your corrections,
    they are a big help and motivation to go on.\r\nsebilar"
  created: '2005-10-09 21:48:25'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "There is a new version up at\r\nhttp://www.consolution.at/terranova_v44.pdf\r\n\r\nMany
    changes (black is new, red is last shown version):\r\n- redone lowercase (unified
    serifs, up- and downstrokes, rounds, new k, new g\r\n- new numerals (upper- and
    lowercase)\r\n- some Details in Uppercase\r\n- new dieresis, grave, acute, tilde,
    cedille\r\n\r\nOn page 2, there is a very early version of an italic. It's just
    a redraw of the original, without any changes yet, and there are even some letters
    missing. So it's just to have a look at it, but not to do a lot of critique at
    the moment.\r\n\r\nQuestions:\r\n\r\n- What do you think of the new h? I'm not
    sure about that form at all\r\n- Upstroke of d, k und l are not connected to the
    stem in the original font, but they are in b and h. Should it be unified?\r\n\r\n\r\nknown
    bugs:\r\n- Y is completely twisted...\r\n- no updates on ligatures and combined
    numerals (fractions etc.) unless the main glyphs are quite fixed\r\n- & turns
    too much to the left\r\n\r\nThanks for your comments\r\nSebilar"
  created: '2005-10-15 20:23:39'
- author:
    name: jafo
  body: "Hi. Going on v. 0.44 --\r\n\r\nI generally don't like this sort of face --
    too angular, sharp, and compressed for my very subjective tastes -- but you've
    done quite a good job with this. It has style and a certain charm. The g's are
    too wide, the a could use a bit more flair, and I feel that v/x/x are too staid.
    I particularly like your combining f's; they are clear and stylish, and work very
    well with their partners. Oh, and I like the italic a lot; it's not exactly legible,
    but its form makes up for any lack of function."
  created: '2005-10-16 15:25:10'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Hi jafo,\r\n\r\nthanks for your feedback. Some of your propositions I included
    in v52, that can be found here:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.consolution.at/terranova_v52.pdf\">Terra
    Nova v52</a> (black=52, red=44)\r\n\r\nnew stuff:\r\n- revised the \"v, w, x,
    y\"\r\n- changed some numerals again (5 and 8 in upper- and lowercase)\r\n- \"a,
    d, h, q and u\" got new downstrokes, they integrate in the line much better now\r\n-
    the \"S, s\" are less vivid now\r\n- the \"W\" is simplified (not good yet)\r\n-
    changed details in \"G, M and e\"\r\n\r\n- there is a new ampersand and a first
    version of an @\r\n- completed the raw drawing of the italic\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nsebilar"
  created: '2005-10-19 21:21:50'
- author:
    name: Number3Pencils
    picture: 110698
  body: "A few things I see--\r\n\r\n8 needs more stroke contrast.\r\nI liked the
    old a d u better.\r\ng still seems odd to me. I'd say give the head more stress
    contrast and squash it a little top-to-bottom; then bring the bottom finial underneath
    the handle.\r\ns: change the serifs?\r\nZero needs more stroke contrast. \r\n7
    too wide.\r\nWhy do the periods and such have a slice taken out of them?\r\n?
    needs more thick.\r\nWhat distinction will there be between diereses and double-acutes?\r\nG's
    top serif should be more like C's.\r\n\r\nItalics (even though it's a rough sketch,
    I'll start critiquing):\r\nTerrific motion. Make sure that as you go, you give
    each character a definite thick and definite thin area. Like, the z is all thin,
    no thick. (This applies to some of the Roman characters too.)\r\nX, x don't seem
    like they should have serifs.\r\no and s don't fit.\r\nc needs an upper finial.\r\ng
    too wide.\r\n\r\nI like this a lot. Very well done. \r\n\r\nNow, keep in mind,
    I'm still only 16 and this is my... fourth? post on the site. But what I just
    mentioned is what I see."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Sebastian Nagel
      picture: 109594
    body: "Thanks for your feedback.\r\nAt the moment i have a lot of other things
      to do, so Terra Nova has to wait until weekend-sparetime, but anyway i will
      consider some of your critique.\r\n\r\nPeriods have this slice because the original
      has them too in the copperplate engraving. I guess this is the only easy way
      to create a \"dot\" with the tools available for this technique (doing a \"twist\"
      with a beginning and an ending \u2013 creating the slice in between). I think
      at the moment it's too much detail that can't be seen in reading-textsizes.
      I will try to make it more visible, or, if this does not work, eliminate the
      slices completely.\r\n\r\nI think telling what you see is very important, whether
      you are 16 or 96. It's just that more people means more thoughts, and thoughts
      are good :)\r\nOf course, as the designer of this font, i have to keep the decicion
      which ideas and thoughts i translate into the design, and which i do not, because
      otherwise it's just implementing *all* the ideas, and in the end the type turns
      out to be a freak ;-)"
    created: '2005-10-24 12:21:07'
  created: '2005-10-23 06:58:02'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "very tired, short update:\r\n<a href=http://www.consolution.at/terranova_v59.pdf>Terra
    Nova v59</a>\r\n\r\n\u2013 redone capital serifs\r\n\u2013 minor changes in minuscle
    (m, n, v, w, x, y)\r\n\u2013 some raw alternate capital and minuscle forms\r\n\u2013
    first drawing of smallcaps\r\n\u2013 again new version of grave and acute\r\n\u2013
    Eth and eth (no experience, so maybe this is crap)\r\n\u2013 new alternate & (too
    thin yet)\r\n\u2013 added ft and fft-ligs (raw)\r\n\u2013 new alternate form uf
    long s\r\n\u2013 new form of \xDF\r\n\u2013 tt-lig, trashy Th-lig\r\n\u2013 re-designed
    superior-, inferior-, ...-numerals, fractions\r\n\u2013 dagger and double-dagger\r\n\u2013
    new braces and backslash"
  created: '2005-10-26 01:31:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I love this face.\r\nDoing it as a \"flipper font\" would be cool.\r\nThat
    would use the OpenType contextual alternates feature to vary alternate glyphs
    for the same character, so it doesn't appear identical every time.\r\nOpenType
    would also help manage all your figures, fractions and ligatures -- in fact the
    ligatures could be made from contextual alternates. I think you would have a lot
    of fun with that."
  created: '2005-10-29 03:58:00'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Hello Nick Shinn,\r\n\r\nI am working on some opentype-features, but as I
    have found out, this is more complicated than assumed :)\r\n\r\nThis is my first
    font that is that far that I can think about opentype-coding, so everything I
    do is experimenting how it could work.\r\nLigatures are no problem, figures are
    (at the moment), as there are more then just two types on them, but there are
    uppercase, lowercase, table, superior, inferior, etc., and I haven't found out
    yet how to exchange from every figure-class to any other without problems.\r\nI've
    tried to look at Adobes Garamond Pro for that, but it's too complicated for me
    at the moment... Learning by doing will be the key I guess.\r\n\r\nOn ligatures,
    there is another little problem: I am German-speaking, and we have a very \"nice\"
    ruleset for ligatures: they are only allowed, when they do not spread across so-called
    \"Wortfugen\". A \"Wortfuge\" would for example be here:  Mouse|trap. So, let's
    say if we have the word \"Schilfinsel\" (Schilf|insel), we are not allews to use
    a ligature, as it could disturb the legability of this word combined of two seperate
    words. This is because german language consists of a large amount of these combination
    of words, and they would not be recognisable anymore as parts of the whole new
    word if they were connected by ligatures.\r\nOf course, this is a problem for
    german language only. The only question is: is it useful to full-feature the font
    with ligature-replacements even of exotic combinations, and annoying german typographers,
    or should it be reduced, and the additional ligs can be accessed by the glyph-table?
    Or even do two versions of it :)\r\n\r\nDoing contextual alternates is an option,
    but i first have to re-work them, as they are far less-developed at the moment
    than the rest of the glyphs.\r\n\r\nThanks for your Feedback\r\nSebilar"
  created: '2005-10-29 10:51:25'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "<a href=http://www.consolution.at/terranova_v61_iv8.pdf>Terra Nova v61, Terra
    Nova Italic v8</a>\r\n\r\nNew Version with\r\n\r\n- Uppercase and caps big german
    sz (controversial topic :)\r\n- Thorn and thorn (no experience, so maybe crap)\r\n-
    some new Lig-ideas and -adaptions (decorative)\r\n- OE-combination\r\n- some special
    chars (R) (too big yet), (c), TM, upside-down ? and !, asterisk (too big yet)\r\n\r\n-
    redone lowercase-italics\r\n- redone uppercase-italics A-J\r\n\r\n- some experiments
    about spacing (which would you choose?)"
  created: '2005-10-29 10:58:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I\u2019ve tried to look at Adobes Garamond Pro\r\n\r\nOne difficulty is
    that, when FontLab opens an OT font, it gives the glyph classes numerical names.\r\n\r\nSo,
    whereas the original code might have been\r\n\r\nfeature numr { # Numerators\r\n
    # Latin\r\n    sub @Figures by @Numerators;\r\n} numr;\r\n\r\n-- which is fairly
    easy to understand,\r\n\r\nyou get\r\n\r\nfeature numr { # Numerators\r\n # Latin\r\n
    \   sub @class1401 by @class1402;\r\n} numr;\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nThank-you for the
    explanation of Wortfugen, which is news to me. (Although I had come across the
    capital \"double S\" before in a Typophile thread (can someone point that out?),
    where that phenomenon can occur.\r\n\r\nIt is possible to include alternate sets
    of rules within an OpenType feature, distinguished by a \"language tag\". You
    can see this at work in the \"locl\" feature of A Garamond Pro.\r\n\r\nI wonder
    if any foundries, such as Linotype, have implemented language-specific OT ligature
    substitutions?\r\n\r\nHere I am, sounding like an authority on OpenType (and I
    have even given a workshop on contextual alternates), however, I have only been
    making OT fonts for a year, and there are huge gaps in my knowledge, as I have
    only \"mastered\" some capabilities of some features. What's more, there are new
    capabilities to be invented/designed all the time, such as dealing with Wortfugen.
    \r\n\r\nSo don't be discouraged, make this an OpenType font from the outset.\r\nI
    expect that quite soon, as OpenType becomes the norm (no longer \"terra nova\"),
    typographers will have zero tolerance for fiddling around with glyph substitutions
    and font changes, but will expect to handle things like compound fractions and
    complex ligatures by going straight to the OT palette. You might think \"I can
    retrofit this font with OT later\", but if you're anything like me, you will have
    new fish to fry by then, and it won't get done. \r\n\r\nI'm not saying OT features
    are a necessity of every font, but I do believe that it is more important to make
    special ligatures accessible by OT, rather than to just make them.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Sebastian Nagel
      picture: 109594
    body: "Nick Shinn:\r\n\r\nThanks for the reveal of this Fontlab-behavior, I already
      was wondering about Adobe-programmer's super-high IQ so that they can remember
      classes by numbers :)\r\n\r\nCapital double s is quite a controversial thing:
      german double s is a ligature of longs and s (other say longs and z... another
      topic), and it's a letter by its own today, used when the s is spoken sharply,
      but the vocal in front of it is long, not shortened (otherwise, ss is used).\r\nWhen
      writing in capital letters (for titling or advertising, etc.), the problem was
      that there is no equivalent for \xDF in capitals. This leads to typographical
      uglyness like \"MA\xDFNAHME\". Correctly, \xDF is replaced by SS in capitals,
      so it becomes \"MASSNAHME\".\r\nBut there are cases where this leads to misunderstanding.
      In lowercase writing, the words \"Ma\xDFe\" (measures) and \"Masse\" (mass)
      can be indentified as two different things, but in uppercase, both become \"MASSE\".\r\nThere
      are examples of a uppercase equivalent of \xDF, like in inscriptions of family
      names on tombstones, and there were also tries in DDR (eastern germany) to create
      a uppercase \xDF, but until now this was not successful. There is no place for
      it in unicase, and it is not used in dictionaries either. So there is no big
      hope that it will ever be \"standard\".\r\n\r\nThere is no doubt that I will
      try to do a lot of opentype-Scripting with Terra Nova, as this is also a project
      to learn new things. But I know already that it will be difficult :)\r\nI think
      the problem with Wortfugen can't be solved until Opentype supports dictionaries.
      Until now I haven't found fonts that have solved this problem (not even linotype,
      that have done things like Zapfino...). It's the same problem as scripting the
      usage of s/longs: too many (or no) rules, too many exceptions."
    created: '2005-10-30 19:03:31'
  created: '2005-10-29 17:45:04'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Hmm\u2026 it seems to me there's too much inconsistence in and among stem
    widths if the face is meant to be used extensively.\r\nI'm not talking about irregularity
    or degree of finish but just of internal cohesion as a whole, especially in the
    Italic.                                                                                                                                       \r\nYou
    should post an example of textsetting, if the spacing is already enough OK to
    allow it.\r\nAnd of course Nick's suggestion is agreeable."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Sebastian Nagel
      picture: 109594
    body: "piccic:\r\n\r\nI don't understand your annotation about stem widths (but
      i think this might be a lingual problem). Could you explain it to me in more
      detail?\r\n\r\nIs it about cohesion between roman and italic (as italic is thinner
      than roman at the moment), or is it a problem of each of them by their own (if
      so, I don't understand yet)?\r\n\r\nShort textsetting is seen in the last version
      (v61 iv8) (on page 2 and page 3), that can be seen in the very first posting
      of this thread. This is done by indesigns optical kerning (instead of using
      font-metrics, as this is not very usable yet). I can post a longer text when
      I get back home next week.\r\n\r\nThanks for your posting anyway\r\nSebilar"
    created: '2005-10-30 19:10:53'
  created: '2005-10-30 11:40:23'
- author:
    name: marconi lima
    picture: 110989
  body: good work!
  created: '2005-10-31 12:51:06'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Regarding Wortfugen: I suspect that getting it correct is up to the application
    (e.g., InDesign) just as hyphenation is. I don't think there would be a way to
    implement this kind of context-sensitive functionality in OpenType anyway since
    it depends on something analogous to a hyphenation dictionary.\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    what do you do in the case of a font like Bembo, where the top of the f hangs
    over and would collide with the l if the ligature is not used? There are also
    some sans serif typefaces in which the fi and fl ligatures actually pull back
    the top of the f rather than make a connection. My understanding has always been
    that such ligatures exist to solve spacing problems and do not have any sort of
    semantic function, so I was a little alarmed when you described how things are
    done in Germany.\r\n\r\n(Nice looking font, by the way.)"
  created: '2005-10-31 13:38:48'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "One of the most appreciated typographers in Germany, H.P. Willberg, solves
    this problem of f and l colliding where no ligs are allowed with give more spacing
    so no collision occurs. When done well, this works, but it's a bit strange to
    look at in the beginning.\r\n\r\nEdit: It also works because there are only whole
    words seperated, like \"book|shelf\", not parts of them. So no words themselves
    are destroyed."
  created: '2005-10-31 16:01:19'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "So after more than two months, I am happy to present a major update.\r\n<strong>Please
    consider this as a completely new version</strong>, there are too many small and
    bigger chances to compare it to older versions.\r\n\r\n<a href=http://www.consolution.at/terranova_v83_iv9.pdf>glpyh
    list</a>\r\n<a href=http://www.consolution.at/terranova_praesentation.pdf>quick
    and dirty presentation</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n- a lot of finetuning based on largescale
    printouts\r\n- new e and g\r\n- new diacritic and extended latin characters\r\n-
    revised and many new ligatures\r\n- new (and partially experimental, unfinshed)
    punctuation\r\n- roman numerals\r\n- completely revised spacing (this now is \"numeric
    spacing\" in indesign, completely based on the font, no indesign optical features
    used)\r\n- no kerning yet\r\n- currently working on some opentype-features (revised
    numeral-features, capital spacing, case-sensitive positioning, etc.)\r\n\r\n-
    some changes in italic (not good yet but better than before)\r\n\r\n- started
    working on titling capitals and ornaments (digitizing phase)\r\n\r\n\r\nI think
    the font is entering the \"detail phase\", so if you feel like niggling on details,
    this is just the opportunity to do so extensively ;-). I would appreciate any
    comment!\r\n\r\nThanks for your help\r\nSebilar"
  created: '2006-01-08 02:33:20'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "At the moment, I am more concentrating on <a href=http://typophile.com/node/17136>Sofa/Canap\xE9</a>,
    but on request,  here is <a href=http://www.gestaltungssache.at/stuff/terranova_praesentation.pdf>Version
    0.100</a>\r\n\r\nPlease forget about the currency symbols at the moment, they
    are work in progress. Most of the overlapping-effects can be avoided by zooming
    in a bit. Sorry for the inconvenience.\r\n\r\nI've finally found a link to the
    map again, it turned out to be quite famous... <a href=http://memory.loc.gov/ammem/gmdhtml/gutierrz.html>Map
    by Diego Guti\xE9rrez</a>\r\n\r\nSebilar"
  created: '2006-03-11 11:15:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sebilar,\r\n\r\nTerra nova is fabulous!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-11 14:37:29'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Thanks, dezcom :)\r\n\r\nFor myself, I was in doubt about Terra Nova for
    the last weeks, I think I need a break before I can start working on it again,
    but the comments today motivate me to do so soon.\r\n\r\nsebilar"
  created: '2006-03-11 20:16:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I know what you mean Sebilar, about taking a break.  It is a good idea.  It
    gives us fresh eyes to see things we were blind to before. I need to do the same.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-12 01:09:36'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "A question about your term \"fabulous\": Is it fabulous because it is rich
    of glyphs not every font has, or is it fabulous concerning quality?\r\n\r\nI am
    afraid that I was trapped into expanding the glyph count (not for numeric reasons,
    but because I had so many ideas what could yet be integrated), and lost focus
    on quality management.\r\n\r\nBut as I said: I think after taking a break, it
    will be more easy to concentrate on quality in detail again. *And* I need a printer...
    Driving to University for every test printing is not very motivating...\r\n\r\n\r\nsebilar"
  created: '2006-03-12 13:09:25'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "<a href=http://www.psyops.com/html/spec_terra.html>Terra Nova</a>\r\n\r\nLooks
    like I need a new name (isn't it?).\r\nAnd I guess \"Terranova\" instead of \"Terra
    Nova\" won't be enough?\r\n\r\nsebilar"
  created: '2006-03-16 13:31:27'
- author:
    name: warrenvidrine
  body: "DWV\r\n\r\nFor a Spanish font of that era, you really need to consider including
    several glyphs which were much used in that era.  There were ligatured-character
    and other glyphs for de, del, and several other common \"glue words\".  Unfortunately,
    there are no ISO designations for these characters yet.  The closest one for \"de\"
    is \xD0 (an old Norse glyph; in most typefaces the horizontal also extends leftward
    from the vertical, which wasn't the case for the Spanish ligature).  There isn't
    anything even close for the other combo characters commonly used by the Spanish
    back then.\r\n\r\nCheers, Warren"
  created: '2007-08-29 08:16:43'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Thanks for your suggestion. Is there a list somewhere on the web, where I
    can see how the glyphs looked like, and what they meant?\r\n\r\nIt would not be
    a big problem to include them as a opentype stylistic set.\r\n\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2007-09-02 20:32:52'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "BTW: I've just re-opened Tierra Nueva (Terra Nova) today, and there were
    such obvious flaws... Let it rest for several months was a good decision indeed.\r\nI
    did some major changes that calm the forms down and make the font much more readable.
    More to come soon."
  created: '2007-09-02 20:37:16'
- author:
    name: eeblet
    picture: 111835
  body: "Lovely!  I enjoyed reading the critiques, and look forward to your update.\r\n\r\n---\r\neeblet.com"
  created: '2007-10-18 03:20:37'
- author:
    name: litera
    picture: 112575
  body: Very nice, but I don't like the double connections on the "sch" ligature.
    they seem to be overwhelming and there just because you think they must be.
  created: '2007-10-24 09:58:07'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "Ahoy There! What a wonderful discovery in the treasure map. http://ian-albert.com/misc/bigimages/gutierrez/diego-gutierrez-map-whole.jpg\r\nThe
    original is in the Library of Congress. Well its not exactly a treasure map but
    the font may be a treasure!  The dots of the ? ! ; look like glittering thumbtacks
    too regular and distracting- why not use short strokes like you did for the j
    and i .\r\nSince this is a \"map font\" why not include special characters for
    the cardinal directions North South East West, complete with arrows and florishes?"
  created: '2008-03-01 10:47:56'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Vladimir, your link isn\u2019t working. Here\u2019s another one: <a href=\"http://ian-albert.com/misc/zoom-gutierrezmap.php\">Diego
    Gutierrez Map</a>"
  created: '2008-03-01 13:49:36'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: It would certainly be nice to see this released!
  created: '2008-03-02 01:00:33'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "I'll upload an up to date pdf this evening (europe).\r\nIt is far cleaner
    and calmer, there is kerning, redesigned numerals, etc.\r\n\r\nYes, there should
    be some \"nautic\" features like cardinal directions, and flourishes too. And
    I am still interested in this: \"There were ligatured-character and other glyphs
    for de, del, and several other common glue words.\", but I can't find information
    on this...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-03 11:52:22'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "The most common abbreviation (and seen still a good bit here in Spain) is
    the DE ligature.  It's very simple to make, you just take the midddle bar of the
    E and stick it off onto the D:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/de_lig_example_6593.png]\r\n\r\nThat's
    pretty much the only ligature you see in Spanish other than the ampersand as \"et\"
    used to be used instead of Modern Spanish \"y\" for \"and\".  I've read in several
    places that there used to be a ligature for LL or ll, but in my research I've
    yet to find a single document that actually used such a ligature, although there
    are some interesting posibilities.  The \"ch\" is occasionally kerned closer but
    seeing them ligatured is not common practice.  \r\n\r\nA good font for Spanish
    needs a,o,e,z,d,n,r,s,c,\xF1 in superscript off the top of my head (see [[http://typophile.com/node/42577|this
    thread]] on ordinal numbers which you may or may not want their combinations ligatured.
    \ Best bet for them is do several bar/underline characters that can underline
    one, two, three, four of them at a time.  Likewise,the tilde was not just reserved
    for the \xF1, but could be used over any vowel as well where it meant \"this letter
    plus an m or n\" (eg, c\xF5tar = contar, \xE3pliaci\xF5 = ampliaci\xF3n).  It
    could be used over multiple letters to signify that several letters (usually vowels)
    had been omitted.\r\n\r\nOf course, it wouldn't hurt to have some nice capital
    Qs designed for the words Que and Qu\xE9, which do appear quite frequently.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-03 14:56:37'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Thanks guifa for that. That's just the type of information I need at the
    moment. The Basics are settled, the more specific typographic features are on
    the rise...\r\n\r\n\r\nI've now uploaded a new version (see very first posting
    of this thread).\r\nI'm redesigning the astrological symbols etc. at the moment."
  created: '2008-03-04 11:52:22'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "Looking very nice.  One thing on your numbers and some other glyphs: check
    the outline direction.  Some of them are going backwards which causes some interesting
    white-outline artifacts on Mac OS X.   I would probably given the style of the
    font use a \xB7 under your \xAA and \xBA (including in the combination N\xBA)
    instead of nothing/underline.  I think it fits the font style a little better,
    and is certainly well represented in Spanish typography/calligraphy.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-03-04 23:12:26'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: Thanks Florian for the link to the marvelous map. One could zoom in and inspect
    the various portions of the map.  The lettering on the map seems more tight and
    regular than Sebastian's interpretation- I could see how hard it was to create
    a font that encompassed both this regularity and the many idiosyncratic elements
    that give it its special flavor.  I compared the new version of the font with
    a copy of the pdf I saved last week. I was sorry to see the small g lose its "cartoony"
    shape as Hrant has remarked with some justification. Sebastian, how about using
    the g found on the map in the word "Magallanes" just to the left of the Southern
    tip of S. America? It has dignity and a nice flourish to it. Also the new version
    of the font seems a bit too staid, perhaps because the text sample lacked the
    exciting ch and ft and other ligatures that added so much to the character of
    the font.
  created: '2008-03-05 11:04:39'
- author:
    name: Eluard
    picture: 114004
  body: 'One thing that stood out for me was the fj ligature. I really dislike that
    near colliding dot. Other than that I''d love to see this get out there: it was
    one of the first things that I read about in Typophile before I joined.'
  created: '2008-03-06 00:51:42'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Here's a new testing and quick-and-dirty-presentation document...\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.gestaltungssache.at/content/terranova/terranova.pdf\">Version
    0.144</a>\r\n\r\n\r\nGuifa, Vladimir, Eluard: your comments are not forgotten,
    even though most of them are not yet included in this document. I'm just consolidating
    this at the moment to get a new overview."
  created: '2008-03-30 22:01:11'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: Nice presentation - that is a lot of work, but well worth it.  Keep at it
    until you hear the cry from the crow's nest "Land Ho!" I always wondered about
    situations with new fonts such as this one, of how to teach the new user the keystroke
    sequence required to produce such ligatures as the ship or cardinal point glyphs.
  created: '2008-03-31 02:44:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Looking good, Sebastian!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-03-31 16:05:24'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "That italic is to die for.\r\n\r\nI love the presentation of it.\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl
    futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros
    mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2008-04-08 00:15:26'
- author:
    name: metalfoot
    picture: 112098
  body: So when can I buy it? Looks really good to me. I think you've captured the
    spirit and flavour of the old cartographers well.
  created: '2008-04-13 23:22:16'
- author:
    name: rouss
    picture: 114244
  body: "Love it, Seb\r\n\r\nIs it available yet?.."
  created: '2008-08-25 15:19:11'
- author:
    name: rui abreu
    picture: 111513
  body: Great typeface, congratulations on your beautiful work.
  created: '2008-08-26 10:55:39'
- author:
    name: dishdesigner
    picture: 111471
  body: Holy sh** - what a lovely specimen book....I'm in a puddle.
  created: '2008-09-12 07:55:13'
- author:
    name: malbright
    picture: 111180
  body: "Hi Seb,\r\nIs there any chance we could please please please buy this gorgeous
    face? Pretty please??\r\n\r\nMany thanks!"
  created: '2009-01-07 04:53:03'
- author:
    name: peggo
    picture: 128366
  body: "Wow Sebastian..!!\r\nA really great job..!!!\r\nI really glad for your beautiful
    work.. this give me hopes for keep my energies in this hard way like fontdesign..!!
    thanks for share your process work here..!!\r\n\r\nmy better wishes for you and
    for your work..!!\r\n:D\r\nPedro [PeGGO]"
  created: '2009-02-05 00:59:33'
- author:
    name: jepler
  body: "hello,\r\nIs there a demo copy of this font available now for sale? I'd like
    to explore its use with a school project I'm working on.\r\nthanks!"
  created: '2009-09-02 16:20:46'
- author:
    name: damascity
  body: 'Does anyone know what happened to this font? If not do you know of a similar
    font? I''m looking for something representative of 14-16th century Spain. '
  created: '2009-12-12 09:47:11'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "just a short update: I am finalizing Tierra Nueva 4 weights (regular, bold,
    italic and script) right now. it's almost done (and i really mean almost done,
    it's only bug-checking and finding some not-so-beautiful overlaps in the script
    to do yet) and i hope to release it within first quarter 2010.\r\n\r\nA new pdf
    presentation will be online soon, likely this winter holidays.\r\n\r\nThanks for
    your interest for such a long time. This was the first font i started, me and
    the font have come a long way since then, and it's time to get it out. :)"
  created: '2009-12-15 09:03:18'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: Promise, Sebastian? :)  I have been procrastinating about releasing my first
    OT font family of 6 weights too (although two weights are already released in
    versions associated with a special software). I mention this because it too only
    needs debugging, and the first quarter of 2010 sounds like a good target date!
  created: '2009-12-15 11:51:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: BRAVO!
  created: '2010-07-10 20:27:54'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: Gratuliere, Sebastian!
  created: '2010-07-10 23:38:24'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "For those interested (like me :-)* Tierra Nueva was finally released:\r\nhttp://www.fonts.info/info/tierra-nueva.htm\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n*
    http://typophile.com/node/72128"
  created: '2010-07-11 08:04:45'
- author:
    name: Vladimir Tamari
    picture: 113527
  body: "You reached a fontastic new land!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Tierra
    Nuovo_5907.JPG]"
  created: '2010-07-11 12:36:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Congrats on your great result(s)!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-11 15:21:15'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Thanks for all the flowers :)\r\n\r\nAs things are a bit asynchronous (myfonts,
    etc.), i wanted to wait to announce it here ...\r\nAnyway, to make it short: it
    has been quite a journey, but now it's out \u2013 I'm proud, I hope I have delivered
    high quality work, and I am very thankful for your support from 2005 till now,
    as I have learned a lot from this community. I'm also full of motivation and working
    on the next project(s) to follow :)\r\n\r\nYou may be especially interested in
    the 46 pages font specimen, which is the best overview about the whole family
    with all its features:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fonts.info/dlcounter/DrWeb_DownloadZaehler.php?d=10\">english</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fonts.info/dlcounter/DrWeb_DownloadZaehler.php?d=9\">german</a>\r\n\r\nPurchase
    is for now possible via <a href=\"http://www.fonts.info\">fonts.info</a>, and
    soon it will be available on myfonts.com too.\r\n\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2010-07-12 14:38:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the 46 pages font specimen\r\n\r\nSorry to sound 3 decades younger than
    I am, but: OMG!!!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-12 14:58:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: It is a treasure chest of 46 pages! --Makes you long  for a lovely printed
    version with good paper!
  created: '2010-07-12 15:16:55'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "i'd like to have that too, maybe on aged paper. :)\r\nbut i guess it would
    be quite expensive ... "
  created: '2010-07-14 14:47:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Yes, Sebastian. The only way to make it pay for itself would be to write and
    design a beautiful book based on Spanish maps and drawings.  It might sell enough
    copies to pay for printing?
  created: '2010-07-14 14:55:42'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "Congratulations! truely great...\r\n\r\nJanek\r\n\r\n[as it is still in Critique
    section: I found in pdf one overlapping letter Uogonek, p.16; there are some issues
    in Universal Declaration of Human Rights, polish translation: \"Preamble\" ought
    to be \"Preambu\u0142a\" <or latin \"Preambulum\"> (I don't know why this error
    is in official translation?!), there are several hyphens inside words, and You
    can't leave letter \"i\" on the end of a line]"
  created: '2010-07-14 19:43:51'
- author:
    name: Steven Acres
    picture: 117088
  body: "Sebastian: believe me when I say, and I'm saying this quite seriously: this
    is the best typeface I have ever seen (its nature, design, execution, etc. are
    what lead me to this decision: I love antiquated maps, cartographic typography,
    and quirky letterforms) and it's design like this that makes me feel good to be
    a designer.\r\n\r\nWhen I'm not a poor design student anymore, I plan on buying
    the full family."
  created: '2010-07-15 13:28:44'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Janek: thank you for your feedback. You are right in every point, I will
    do the corrections right away and send them to my label.\r\n\r\nSteven: there's
    a student discount on fonts.info (though it's still not free ...)"
  created: '2010-07-16 11:43:53'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: 'Sorry, one thing more: "onz" means UNO so ought to be in ALLCAPS or SC...'
  created: '2010-07-16 13:32:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I see it is now available on \"My Fonts\"\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/fdi/fdi-tierra-nueva/"
  created: '2010-07-16 16:42:09'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: Okay, corrections for Uogonek Bold and the specimens are done and on their
    way. It may take a little time yet to be updated on the server though.
  created: '2010-07-17 13:54:03'
- author:
    name: JanekZ
    picture: 110966
  body: "I am impressed!\r\nGood luck Sebastian."
  created: '2010-07-23 20:30:33'
date: '2005-10-08 23:29:13'
title: Tierra Nueva - new font inspired by old spanish map - OUT NOW :)

---
