---
author:
  name: sohappy2
  picture: 111043
body: "i have no money to take a class right now. (i'm in grad school, already...)
  \r\n\r\ni'm really impressed by the expertise of you (all). \r\n\r\nthus, i'm asking
  (pleading?) for a lot of you to reply, telling me your\r\n\r\n1. favorite typography
  book\r\n2. your one piece of advice for someone in my situation. \r\n\r\n(extra
  credit) \r\n\r\nhow to connect with cool typography/graphic design people/resources
  in the new york area... \r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Buy a good book on calligraphic styles and copy the letters with your nib.\r\nIn
    New York, I suggest you Pomodoro restaurant, 229 Columbus Ave. (71st St.).\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAS"
  created: '2005-10-09 22:12:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "http://typophile.com/wiki/Elements%20of%20Typographic%20Style\r\n\r\n[[Elements
    of Typographic Style]]"
  created: '2005-10-09 22:30:09'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> 2. your one piece of advice for someone in my situation.\r\n\r\nwhat's
    your situation?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sohappy2
      picture: 111043
    body: 'the situation being that i want to teach myself in a way that will yield
      results similar to those that i would get if i could afford formal training
      (i know, an impossible task, but i would like to try) '
    created: '2005-10-10 00:02:16'
  created: '2005-10-09 23:24:54'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Try the \"<a href=\"http://typophile.com/wiki/Triumvirate\" target=\"blank\">Triumvirate</a>\"
    of type books as named by Hrant.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-10-09 23:39:37'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Read:\r\n\r\n1. [[Printer's type in the  twentieth century: Manufacturing
    and design techniques]]. By Richard Southall\r\n\r\n2. [[The book as a work of
    art]]. Edited by  John Dieter Brinks\r\n\r\n3.  [[The Art & History of Books]].
    By Norma Levarie (reprint of the first edition)"
  created: '2005-10-09 23:50:51'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>how to connect with cool typography/graphic design people/resources
    in the new york area\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nCheck out the Type Directors Club (http://www.tdc.org/)."
  created: '2005-10-10 00:09:00'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "Dear So,\r\nI'll probably be breaking from the pack with this suggestion,
    but I think an excellent book for you to read, particularly at the start of your
    typographic self-ed, is [[Stop Stealing Sheep]] by [[Erik Spiekermann]] and E.M.
    Ginger.\r\nhttp://www.peachpit.com/bookstore/product.asp?isbn=0201703394&rl=1\r\n\r\nBefore
    you can really get into the nuances of typography, I think it's important to understand
    what type IS, how it works, etc. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: alison
    body: "I agree with the suggestion of \"Stop Stealing Sheep & find out how type
      works\" and i'd also reccommend \"Type and Typography\" by Phil Baines and Andrew
      Haslam.\r\n\r\nIm in my second year of a graphic design degree and have found
      both of these books really useful in being introduced to typography.\r\n\r\nHope
      that helps x"
    created: '2005-10-11 18:02:57'
  created: '2005-10-10 00:22:33'
- author:
    name: dsb
    picture: 111042
  body: "For some good, basic, on-line information to get you started, try this:\r\nhttp://papress.com/thinkingwithtype/.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-10 02:51:18'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "You can take a <a href=\"http://www.tdc.org/events/masterclasses/2005classes/2005mastershaw.html\"
    target=\"new\">typographic walking tour in NYC</a> with Paul Shaw on Oct. 29th
    and hang out with other type geeks.\r\n\r\nDrop in <a href=\"http://www.cooper.edu/art/lubalin/\"
    target=\"new\">The Herb Lubalin Study Center of Design and Typography</a> located
    in The Cooper Union, St. Marks Place.\r\n\r\nYou could fold yourself a <a href=\"http://www.metaltype.co.uk/photos/photo23.shtml\"
    target=\"new\">Printer's Hat</a> and wear a false beard so you could be <a href=\"http://www.nd.edu/~jsherman/gill/intro.html\">Eric
    Gill</a> for Halloween!\r\n\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm back in style!"
  created: '2005-10-11 02:09:31'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Traci you are on the right path, most typographers are self taught. Ask how
    many of the typographers who posted on this topic had a formar type design education.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-10-11 02:13:07'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "I mean something like\r\nMediavilla, Claude. 1993, Calligraphie; Imprimerie
    Nationale, Paris.\r\nMy syllabus : http://tinyurl.com/9pa3b\r\n\r\nGood luck,\r\nAS"
  created: '2005-10-11 17:20:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Traci, I'm only saying this to balance out Alessandro:\r\nFrom your first
    moment, realize the severe limits of the\r\nrelevance of calligraphy to what type
    needs to be today.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-11 17:35:46'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Ask how many of the typographers who posted on this topic had a formar
    type design education.</em>\r\n\r\nIn many ways this is true. But the more important
    concepts and higher understanding will come only with direct contact with others.
    \r\n\r\nOne hopes to spend time with the masters of the trade plus spend A LOT
    of time looking, drawing, setting type copy then closely examine and compare to
    samples of quality typography.\r\n\r\nAs for myself, I did learn letterpress printing
    and hand composing metal type in pre-high school. Then I had courses in both typography
    and lettering in college. But the majority of my \"education\" came from working
    with other professionals, and sitting at the feet of my elders.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-11 17:41:23'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> realize the severe limits of the  relevance of calligraphy to what type
    needs to be today.\r\n\r\nWhy?"
  created: '2005-10-11 17:42:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the more important concepts and higher understanding\r\n> will come only
    with direct contact with others.\r\n\r\nI think it helps hugely, but that \"only\"
    is too strong.\r\n\r\nI would -as I always do- also point out that \"formal\"
    education\r\ncan often stifle discovery/progress, and being self-taught is as\r\nrewarding
    as it is fraught with traps and delays.\r\n\r\n> Why?\r\n\r\nIt's a long story.\r\nYou
    could scour the archives, or trust me on this one.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-11 18:12:01'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>\u201Cformal\u201D education can often stifle discovery/progress</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    but the student is rarely aware of what aids and what hinders. Consider it a \"write
    of passages\" forgiving the puns.\r\n\r\n> <em>and being self-taught is as rewarding
    as it is fraught with traps and delays.</em>\r\n\r\nAlso very true. A few word
    of guidance from a master can save you years of self-teaching. The trouble is
    to find the right master.\r\nAn Asian proverb states, \"When the student is ready,
    the master will appear.\"\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-11 18:23:00'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> An Asian proverb states, \u201CWhen the student is ready, the master will
    appear.\u201D\r\n\r\nOr the Nike one: Just do it!"
  created: '2005-10-11 18:27:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201CWhen the student is ready, the master will appear.\u201D\r\n\r\nYes
    Grasshopper :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-11 18:27:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the student is rarely aware of what aids and what hinders.\r\n\r\nWhich
    is part of the problem of formal education of course.\r\n\r\nAnd when a \"master\"
    saves you time, he might just\r\nas well be closing off your avenues of exploration.\r\nESPECIALLY
    if he's really good.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-11 18:36:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The most difficult part is learning to see with your OWN eyes instead of
    someone else's. The problem exists with the supposed self taught as well as as
    the formally educated.\r\nThe trick is to learn two types of vision, that of the
    naive child who \"beholds without judgment\" and the studied master who uses his
    judgment to behold. Either one can lead you to the other but the trouble is knowing
    when you have begun to arrive.  You never do completely, that is why the best
    master always remains a student.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-11 18:37:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The problem exists with the supposed self taught\r\n\r\nBut a lot less.\r\n\r\n>
    the best master always remains a student.\r\n\r\nYes!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-11 18:42:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But a lot less.\"\r\n\r\nThis is far more dependent on the nature of student
    (and or teacher) than if he/she is self taught or not.  Those who prefer to be
    self taught can either have an honest independent spirit and enquiring mind or
    they can simply be too stubborn and opinionated to even look let alone see. I
    am always very leary of those who are convinced that they \"know\" no matter how
    they arrived at this state.  I much prefer an open mind to closed eyes.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-11 18:52:51'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "So the question now is:\r\n\r\n<em>Do we help or hinder by our critiques
    at Typophile?</em>\r\n\r\nIf we hinder, then what do we do about it?"
  created: '2005-10-11 19:26:27'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "\r\nI share with you one blog I did with my students [2nd year studio].\r\n\r\nEnjoy,\r\nAS\r\n\r\n\r\n[1.]\r\n\r\n\r\nA
    complex unit may be confusing but if you classify the\r\nrelated items into subgroups,
    it may be easier to deal\r\nwith each of them. For instance, in your computer
    you\r\nclassify a main folder's content into subfolders in order\r\nto deal with
    them more efficiently. Because by gathering\r\nsimilar items into a group, you
    simplify the display of\r\nthe files which would enable them to be easily overlooked\r\nand
    analyzed. When you choose viewing the content of a\r\nmain folder in groups, the
    difference in your perception\r\nof quantity is huge.\r\n\r\nWhen you are trying
    to understand or solve complex things,\r\ndealing with them as a whole would make
    your work harder.\r\nHowever firstly examining them one by one and then putting\r\nthe
    ones which resemble each other together would carry out\r\nour work from being
    complex to being simple. Things which\r\nare completely different from each other
    would create a\r\nchaos and be non-sense but when they are classified and\r\noffered
    as groups something more comprehensible, easily\r\nperceived would arise.\r\n\r\nLife
    it self, is a complex system and you can only make\r\nit simple by changing the
    way you look the events that are\r\nhappening and by changing the point of view.
    Every complex\r\nsystem has a simple solution which is lying under them and\r\nthe
    only thing you need to do is, can see the way that is\r\ngoing through the answer.
    All you need to do is, not to\r\nmake it hard, just thinking in a different way...
    That is\r\nwhat we need to do as a designer; make complex system\r\nsimplified...\r\n\r\nComlexity
    is divided to the things that it is based on.\r\nSometimes complexity may end
    up with a really good result.\r\nIt depends on the things that you know how to
    use and how\r\nto comlplete. With allof its sublements, graphic design is\r\na
    complex and dense system. If you use all of your\r\nopportunities in a simple
    and an efficient way, you  will\r\nsucceed. Thus, whatever complex work you do,
    it will look\r\nplain and compact. To put the pieces in a most simple and\r\nlogical
    way the whole work will have a voice. At last, no\r\nmatter how comlex your work
    is , you can conclude your\r\nwork perfectly by keeping it simple.\r\n\r\nSimple
    and complex are relatively perceived things and\r\nreally depends on people's
    moods and experiences; so don't\r\nknow what they mean universally except my instinctive\r\nimpulses
    which is telling me \"When you direct your\r\nattention to something, if you are
    far from it you will\r\nperceive that as simple and if you are close to it you\r\nwill
    perceive that complex. It is same for eyes or nose or\r\nyour brain.\" For example
    if some one has great knowledge\r\nabout a subject he will think that it is simple
    when he\r\nstarts to work with it in real, because he will be far\r\nfrom the
    issue because of being closer to its image in his\r\nmind. On the other hand i
    believe that mathematically every\r\nthing is possible in universe, so refusing
    that expression\r\nis not in my nature. I think that method  can simplify\r\ncomplexes
    because it is creating the illusion of a sigh\r\nfrom a far distant. However if
    you use it too much or\r\nin wrong way it will destroy the thing not simplify
    it;\r\ninspite of the result's simplicity.\r\n\r\nOrganizing things is also simplifying
    them. When you\r\norganize something by grouping, you make the subject tidy\r\nand
    simple so the mind uses less time searching through\r\nthe subjects for the necessary
    object. For example, there\r\nis an instinct of grouping in the kitchen, like;
    glass are\r\nalways somewhere together and close to them mugs or cups,\r\nand
    another place there is dishes, and the knives are\r\nsomewhere together as well
    as the spice are always\r\ntogether in some other place in the kitchen, etc.\r\n\r\nFor
    example, in a complex system of many functions there\r\nmay be the system elements
    that have the same job; but\r\nin a different combination looks different. Therefore\r\nsimplifying
    the complex combinations by using the right\r\nelements exactly where they should
    be, in simple but\r\nuseful combinations would be more appropriate.\r\n\r\nThis
    sencentes is too complex for me to explain as you\r\nsaid in the sentence you
    should simplify for me to answer\r\nit :)  \"... can be simplified by carefully
    grouping\r\nrelated functions\" as u wrote :)\r\n\r\nThe grouping system sometimes
    is better than the complex\r\nsystem, because observation becomes easier.\r\n\r\nRelated
    functions can be found in any area of the\r\nindustry, entertainment, business,
    etc... For instance,\r\nmedia - it is composed of numerous different functions
    -\r\nfrom the chief corporation owner who signs contracts and\r\nairs the shows,
    plays, commercials and so on, to the\r\nlighting boy - without whom the actual
    airing process\r\nwould not take place. All the functions in between - the\r\ndesigner,
    the art director, the sound coordinator, are a\r\n'complex system of many functions',
    which are related to\r\neach other. Therefore, they can be called 'related\r\nfunctions'
    of one sphere, and can hence be grouped under\r\none assemblage - the media.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[2.]\r\n\r\n\r\nWhen
    you think about a mathematical equation, the more you\r\nsimplify it, the less
    time you spend to reach a solution.\r\nWhenever you come across any kind of problem,
    instead of\r\nspending much time on trying to solve a complex problem,\r\nif you
    try to simplify it first, the time you're going to\r\nwork on solving the problem
    will get shorter which enables\r\nyou to save time, so that you can use the saved
    time\r\nelsewhere in your life. That will save you from wasting\r\ntime.\r\n\r\nReaching
    the conclusion in any area of life has short and\r\neasy ways as well as long
    and difficult ways. When there\r\nis the opportunity of using a short cut when
    we are going\r\nsomewhere why would we choose the long way? Simplified\r\nsolution
    is always attractive and it always looks more\r\nworthy to be used.\r\n\r\nA good
    feeling from a simple event is not about what\r\nhappened but about not using
    that too much.\r\n\r\nThe best way to save time is to choose the easy way\r\ninstead
    of the complicated solutions. No matter how\r\ncomplicated or hard the situation
    is, all you have to do\r\nis to simplyfy it by using plane options. Simplycity
    is\r\nthe most ingenious way to achive a positive emotional\r\nexperience. For
    example the work we are given is so\r\ncomplicated by thinking simple we can save
    our time. So we\r\ncan solve the complicated sentences by making them simple.\r\nYou
    will always have a chance to choose the easy way\r\nbecause you are the one to
    control the situation.\r\n\r\nPractically perceiving simple things brings positive\r\nemotional
    responses, actually in today's world only simple\r\nexpressions or creations creates
    response, because no one\r\nwants to waste his precious time to understand a\r\ncomplexity.
    Besides most of them don't have that much time\r\nor oppotunity. For example a
    minimalistic design will work\r\nbetter in an advertisement, because most of the
    people\r\nonly have chance to observe it in very little time, maybe\r\njust for
    a moment while going to work, with their cars;\r\nand they have even less time
    to judge it.\r\n\r\nMost of the people are lazy, including me, but they (we)\r\ncan
    also be busy. So using (or having) simple things let\r\nus have more time to use
    for other things. For example:\r\nOne button technology(!) in NOKIA cell phones
    was a big\r\nchange for me (remember them?). The cell phones now have\r\nkind
    of joysticks as for guiding in the menu. It's simple\r\nand easy to use.\r\n\r\nA
    positive response derived from a 'simplicity experience'\r\nand a positive emotional
    response achieved through an\r\nexperience that is on the contrary complex, is
    both ways\r\na positive response. Considering that the response (be it\r\naccomplished
    through intricacy or through simplicity) is\r\nequally positive - it is therefore
    useful (logic- positive\r\nresponse = utility). Furthermore, if the response is
    useful\r\neither way, then we contemplate which method brought the\r\nsame result
    faster; consequently, coming to the conclusion\r\nthat the 'simplicity experience'
    is not only useful because\r\nof the nature of the response, but also faster -
    because it\r\nis the 'simple' experience, and took less time to undergo.\r\nHence
    - 'saving time'.\r\n\r\nLooking for simple solution for the problems, first of\r\nall,
    will save your time. Basically if there is a simple\r\nsolution to a problem why
    do have to look for complicated\r\nones. It is a loss of time and energy. If your
    not in a\r\nmath exam and your teacher did not ask you to write the\r\ncomplex
    way with explanations, so you are not getting and\r\nextra grade for the time
    you lose on the problem, than it\r\nhas nothing to do with utility, simplify it
    as you can it\r\nis also good for communication.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[3.]\r\n\r\n\r\nSimplicity
    doesn't always mean reducing the quantity in\r\norder to achieve what is \"less\".
    If adding more increase\r\nthe quality of an experince, then we should go for
    it. If\r\nrichness of many elements increases the quality, we should\r\nnot  hesitate
    to add them into that experince just to keep\r\nit simple. A plain piece of cake
    may be delicious itself\r\nbut some extra cream and powdered sugar may add a richer\r\ntaste.
    So why not add them on top of the cake?\r\n\r\nSimple is the best but it never
    means that a simple which\r\nis empty inside is valuable. When you are simplifying\r\nsomething
    complex, you should never overlook important\r\ndetails that would transform your
    work into a colorful and\r\nrich one. Then it would be simplified yes, but we
    do not\r\nneed an empty simple without any content. It is important\r\nto simplify
    something by also letting it stay rich. In\r\nother words 'say less, mean more'.\r\n\r\nThe
    life is full of experiences. Experiences are the\r\nshapers of our lifes. As a
    metaphor we are like sculptures\r\nor paintings waiting for the right material
    and the artist.\r\nThe rich material that the artist is using, the most\r\neffective
    the piece will be. My point is just don't limit\r\nyour life live what life brings
    to you. People shouldn't\r\nbe afraid of adding, because by skipping them you
    will\r\nmiss many points. You will get complicated and you cannot\r\nrecognize
    whats good or bad in life.\r\n\r\nI agree that first part of the expression about
    richness\r\nof an experience but I don't think that adding more\r\nelements to
    a composition will work in real life. That is\r\nso because no one have the responsibility
    to evaluate your\r\nwork specially, they are choosing elements of their lives\r\naccording
    to their own moods, interest and purposes and\r\nthey don't waste much time on
    other things. Accordingly\r\na designer who creates complex and rich productions
    will\r\nalso create more permenant and precise images in people's\r\nmind, if
    he can pass through their barriers. However in my\r\nopinion he can only go through
    the barriers of very limited\r\npeople who has the same understanding of life
    with him.\r\n\r\nSo if you have experience with an object it will make it\r\neasy
    for you to perceive it. You may have some experiences\r\nwith that object but
    why don't you have another one. So\r\nthis will make your work lot easier. Maybe,
    in some\r\nsituations, experience may need some effort but do it.\r\nLater on
    your perception will be lot easier.\r\n\r\nSometimes more of something increases
    the quality of the\r\nexperience of that thing. For example, you write an essay,\r\nwhich
    tells us about what the design is. If you only talk\r\nabout what the design is,
    it is ok, but actually it needs\r\nsome examples. With those examples you improve
    the meaning\r\nof the essay.\r\n\r\nThe richness of this particular experience
    of writing\r\nabout 'simplicity' is absolutely priceless; my perception\r\nof
    this assignment - helpful, yet absolutely confusing. My\r\noverall intent from
    writing all this would be - to achieve\r\na high grade (and maybe even understand
    a thing or two);\r\nyours - to bond the notion of design with my brain, to\r\neducate
    me, to feel complete, competent and satisfied. I\r\nam trying to facilitate both
    our tasks as much as possible\r\nby wasting space on this; at the same time I
    'add more'\r\nand fill up the word limit = not skimping, adding more!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[4.]\r\n\r\n\r\nPeople
    tend to be afraid of the unknown. If you have no\r\nidea about the work you are
    supposed to do, you feel\r\nuncomfortable and stressed to start working on it
    because\r\nit's going to be something ambigious and you start to\r\nperceive it
    more complex than it is. But if you're already\r\nfamiliar with the task, if you
    have already some experince\r\nwith it beforehand, you'll feel you have a control
    over\r\nit which makes you ultimately perceive it simpler.\r\n\r\nKnowledge has
    an extremely important role in perceiving.\r\nIf you do not know anything about
    what you are dealing\r\nwith, you will be prejudiced and think that it is a mess\r\nand
    it is very hard to understand. Also, if you do not\r\nhave knowledge about a subject,
    you would not be aware\r\nof the simple way to get to the end. So if you have\r\na
    previous idea, you will perceive and solve everything\r\nmuch more easily.\r\n\r\nIt
    is very important to have a knowlegde about basic\r\nthings. Not even basic things
    you should also have a\r\nknowlegde about life and what's happening around it.\r\nThese
    knowledges make your life easier because if you know\r\nsomething about an event,
    you can easily realise what's\r\ngonna happen and it makes you feel safe cause
    you know\r\nwhat you need to do when you face with an event that you\r\nknow beforehand.\r\n\r\nEvery
    work you do has a concept everything in the world\r\nhas an aim, according to
    that the more you know about the\r\nsubject you are working on, the most perfect
    result you\r\nwill get. Because if you get familiar with the concept\r\nbeforehand
    that makes sense. Otherwise the result will be\r\na failure. You have to got the
    motion. You have to touch\r\nit from inside. Not knowing anything about the subject
    you\r\nwill got lost and the final work will be mess. By getting\r\nthe idea of
    the concept you can surely do it simple and\r\ncorrect.\r\n\r\nAs i mentioned
    my opinion about this in the first\r\nparagraph simplicity of the percieved thing
    depends on the\r\ndistance of the perciever to the thing, both in physical\r\nand
    conceptual meanings. Additionally if some one has a\r\ngreat knowledge about some
    thing  he will stay in far\r\ndistance to that thing while percieving again.That
    is so\r\nbecause his recognitional response to it will much more\r\nand curiosity
    for it will be very less because of his\r\nknowledge. Actually these people perefer
    to stay closer\r\nto the image of that thing in their minds rather then its\r\nreal.That
    is why if  some one has knowledge about a thing,\r\nwill percieve that thing more
    simple. On the other hand\r\npeople may also stay far way to an issue if they
    don't\r\nhave any knowledge about it.\r\n\r\nKnowledge is important in perceiving
    things, even the\r\nbasic ones. Gathering information about something gives\r\nyou
    access to its usage. Confusion could be solved with\r\nknowledge also. A simple
    user's manual helps you\r\nunderstand how to use a new television, or a help file\r\nis
    useful in order to use a complex software. (Also the\r\nteachers, instructors
    tells me that coming the class\r\nprepared makes the trick. I should try that.)\r\n\r\nFor
    example your client asked you to do a project or\r\nadvertising about some product
    that is brand new to usage\r\nof humans or you've never heard of it before. Therefore
    it\r\nwill take a lot of time for you to put it use in your head.\r\nYou have
    to perceive what does this product stands for\r\nin order fell something about
    it. However if you have an\r\nobject that you've have experience before, for example\r\nwater,
    it will be perceived much quickly.\r\n\r\nI complitely agree to this statement
    the more I know, the\r\nless i spend time. This rule role in our daily life too.\r\nTherefore,
    I am studying  graphic design in Bilkent\r\nUniversity; to get new ideas and to
    learn more. However,\r\nin some situations having experience is more important\r\nthan
    knowing something. Eg: An experienced cooker (but\r\nhe/she doesn't have the profesional
    education) feeds\r\nfaster than an educated cooker (he/she graduated from a\r\nturism/cooking
    school).\r\n\r\nIf you are going to start a project, it is better to know\r\nabout
    the past of the theme, because it helps to make\r\nan efficient project. When
    you know the theme, it become\r\neasier to simplified the theme and also it helps
    to make\r\nit less but more. By meaning less and more, sometimes less\r\nwriting
    or something else is more attractive than writing\r\nmore.\r\n\r\nKnowing 'about'
    something and knowing 'something' can be\r\nmisinterpreted and classified under
    the same label.\r\nUnderstanding a subject and knowing about it superficially\r\nare
    two contradictory concerns. When meeting a person,\r\nbackground knowledge could
    be helpful, yet at the same\r\ntime it could be treacherous.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[5.]\r\n\r\n\r\nIf
    you were a tailor you are aware of the fact that not\r\nall materials are suitable
    for sewing all kind of clothes.\r\nA wedding dress, a suit, a night gown, a sport
    suit they\r\nall need different materials in order to function\r\nproperly. If
    silk is used for a sport suit and a cotton\r\nfabric for a wedding dress, it would
    be clear that those\r\nmaterials fail to comply with those dresses because their\r\nnatural
    usage lie somewhere else. However their failure\r\ndoesn't mean they are bad materials.
    Their failure is just\r\na message for us that they simply don't fit within their\r\ncontext.
    They are not suitable materials for that specific\r\ntask, their usage just lies
    somewhere else.\r\n\r\nUsing a material out of its purpose would never give good\r\nresults.
    For instance if you cover a coach with a curtain\r\nfabric it would easily be
    worn out because it is too thin.\r\nIt's like a key and a lock or a puzzle piece.
    It has to fit\r\nwhere it is placed. A material is only valuable when it is\r\nused
    for its purpose. I mean you should use gold material\r\nto make a necklace not
    to make spoon. Because it would\r\nlose its identity and value. So using material
    where its\r\nsuitable is important.\r\n\r\nEvery material has its own basic usage
    whats coming from\r\nnature. Everything starts in nature by embellishing the\r\nusage
    of the material in a bad way you are making it\r\nuseless. That means you are
    just wasting it, instead of\r\nusing its basic functions. By using the basic functions\r\nof
    a material you can always get a competent product. By\r\naccomodating the material
    naturally to the product, you\r\nalso do it  simple and serviceable. Then the
    result makes\r\na sense. Just do it simple and be natural.\r\n\r\nIf a material
    or an element does not work well in a\r\ncomposition this means you have to search
    its appropriate\r\nusage in other and most probably in simpler and more\r\nnaturel
    compositions. It is very hard to find examples\r\nabout it to me, but simply a
    can say that, maybe organic\r\nmaterials such as wood may not work well in expressing\r\nfeelings
    about technology. Metals, plastics and polimers\r\nwould be more suitable probably.
    On the other hand in my\r\nopinion wood will be more appropriate material to express\r\nlife.
    Actually i totally believe the importance and\r\neffectiveness of the materials
    in creations and mostly\r\nin the ones which has the purpose to give messages
    to\r\nthe people.\r\n\r\nSo if you're material failed to gain success in a specific\r\napplication,
    it means that you're pushing too hard or using\r\nwrong material to solve the
    problems look for simple or\r\nnatural answers. For example if you have a lemon
    and you\r\nwant to slice it to pieces and if every time you use your\r\n\"light
    saber\" it fries then may be you should you knife\r\nto slice it.\r\n\r\nThis
    sentence blames the user because, the producers have\r\nto think of the failures
    of the materials before the\r\ndesign/production: it is illogical to say that
    user is\r\ndoing wrong, producers have to thing all applications\r\nabout the
    product. It has to world-wise. World-wise have\r\nto rule hole the world it should
    not be lies \"elsewhere\".\r\n\r\nIf something isn't working out, it isn't the
    persons'\r\nfault. And it's not the materials' fault either. The only\r\nproblem
    is that both of them don't have any bonds between\r\nthem.\r\n\r\nClearly, if
    a material has been initially produced for a\r\nparticular purpose, it is an indication
    that this material\r\nmust be applied specifically, and used as instructed.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[6.]\r\n\r\n\r\nMusic
    is a kind of noise which we love to hear, which\r\nevokes our feelings, arouse
    them but if it is too loud,\r\nor if it's a kind of music that you dont enjoy,
    which you\r\nthink is bad, it just doesnt evoke anything within you,\r\ndoesn't
    make you feel anything.\r\n\r\nIn every area of art, there is feeling and emotions.
    For\r\ncreating that emotion artists use some elements specific\r\nto that art.
    For example, Van Gogh used colors to express\r\nhis emotions while Mozart utilized
    notes to create his\r\ncompositions. However, if they made a mess of those\r\nelements
    by using excess amount of them, they would only\r\nbe creating noise which prevents
    them from expressing\r\ntheir feelings accurately. Using too many elements leads\r\nto
    complexity and this destroys the feeling that artist\r\ntries to give.\r\n\r\nAs
    an example I can say that music helps people feel.\r\nMusic talks and plays a
    game with your brain. Sometimes\r\nmakes you feel sad, sometimes confused and
    sometimes makes\r\nyou feel happy. It may also let you in a different\r\nfeelings.
    You may feel lots of feelings with the sound you\r\nhear and it may change to
    other person.\r\n\r\nThe most important thing in life, is to live your life\r\nwith
    the help of your instincts. The feelings that lies\r\nbeneath you, should be reflected
    in the way you feel which\r\neventualy is your \"noise\". Noise is the metaphor
    that is\r\nreflecting your senses. Same thing with the work you do.\r\nIt has
    to reflect the noise with a language that people\r\ncan understand simply. So
    you always have to follow your\r\ninstincts in order to have a voice. The feelings
    lying\r\ninside you has to figure the speech, that means to form\r\nyour instincts
    and reflect them outside.\r\n\r\nIn the aspects of graphic design it means, in
    a\r\ncomposition  there must be no more or less elements than\r\nit needs to be,
    because if it is less the work will have\r\nproblemlems in giving its message
    completely. On the other\r\nhand if it is too much elements they will naturelly
    damage\r\nthe understanding of the message. For example if we want\r\nto create
    the image of a tree in my but just use petal or\r\na leaf the message may be lost
    and at the same time if we\r\nuse many trees that time we may create the image
    of forest\r\nrather than a tree.\r\n\r\nGraphic Design is for communication. It
    is a tool to\r\ncreate a communiation between the thing, object, whatever,\r\nand
    the consumer, user, etc. This is done by messages, but\r\ntelling the messages
    right away is not good for marketing\r\npurposes (that makes the commercials dull).
    So as\r\ndesigners, we need something a less obvious cover for\r\nthe message
    but if we cover the message too much then it\r\nwouldn't be readable anymore.
    This problem could be seen\r\nin media; TV and papers both; like they use celebrities
    in\r\ncommercials but most of the time the fame of the celebrity\r\nrenders the
    subject invisible. (...and yes \"feel\" means\r\ntwo things in Turkish too. One
    is to feel through skin,\r\nand the other is through, umm...ahh... soul? heart?
    Like\r\nsensing.)\r\n\r\nFor instance in if you play something in order to feel
    you\r\ngot to have some emphasis if you don't your song will be\r\nboring. However,
    in your play if you emphasize everything\r\nthan all you've got again will be
    noise and therefore it\r\nwill be boring.\r\n\r\nIn order to create something
    you have to have some\r\ninformation about it, but if you've just the information\r\nit
    is only the information. I mean to have a specific\r\nthing there should be the
    existance of attributes,\r\nhowever, if these qualities have been passed over\r\nquantitatively
    these values will be disappeared.\r\n\r\nSometimes more is not good, because having
    less of\r\nsomething is certainly better than having more. For example,\r\nif
    there's too much noise, then you are going to lose the\r\nmain thing. Such as
    if your friend tries to tell you\r\nsomething in a loudly place; you will not
    get what your\r\nfriend is talking about.\r\n\r\nUnderstanding a new concept or
    'feeling' it is only possible\r\nwhen this concept is voiced clearly. If the concept
    is not\r\nvoiced clearly - the meaning is lost, thus, the concept is\r\nnot grasped.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[7.]\r\n\r\n\r\nSometimes
    in order to achieve simplicity, for example a\r\nsimpler look, a simple design,
    it takes harder work, more\r\neffort, mpore attempt. But once you achieve it it
    will be\r\nperceived as very rich, as 'more' because it took so much\r\neffort,
    attention and care to reach it.\r\n\r\nSometimes something which seems invaluable
    at first sight,\r\nmay become priceless by the help of a little care and\r\neffort.
    For instance, a cheap fabric can gain value in the\r\nhands of a talented stylist.
    S\\he can use the fabric for a\r\nflawless design and the people who see it judge
    the value\r\nof the fabric based on the design. So, simple + effort can\r\nsometimes
    mean a good job.\r\n\r\nIf you focus on the minor things too much, they become\r\nmore
    important than they are.\r\n\r\nEverything starts with something. It doesnt matter
    if you\r\nstart with a tiny point or a huge and empty point. The\r\nonly fact
    is that if you got the motion about thing you\r\ndo, if you really put effort
    on in even its not satisfying\r\nfor you at the begining, because of your effort
    the result\r\nwill end up perfect. By forcing your self to get the\r\nresult immadiately
    you are just fooling your self. But if\r\nyou really put your motions and effort
    in to the work,\r\nyou will totally get satisfied with it.\r\n\r\nI think a precies
    and perfectly done work contains signals\r\nwhich can touch to the instincts of
    people and may force to\r\nbelieve the correctness of its message. Because when
    people\r\nsees the \"care\" they will trust more to the creator.\r\nHowever some
    times more gestural, more fastly and\r\napperantly random creation, be more expressive
    and gives\r\nits message more easly. Actually these all depends on the\r\nmessage
    that wanted to be given.\r\n\r\nSimple things doesn't have to be basic or empty
    or dull.\r\nTell what you gotta tell, in a simple way, with a style\r\nand it's
    ok. By thinking and working on something in order\r\nto simplify it, you also
    make it refined and more legible,\r\nthus more interesting.\r\n\r\nIn order to
    perceive and understand something, if you\r\nspend so much time on this \"less\",
    even you don't have\r\nexperience, you will get something eventually. For example\r\na
    traditional statue in your home it may remind you of your\r\nfriend because it
    is your birthday present. However if you\r\nare curious and want to know where
    t came from you can\r\nsearch and you may find out that it is a native-African\r\nproduct
    and somehow your holding it in your hands right\r\nknow. From now on your perception
    on the object has\r\nchanged with more attention.\r\n\r\nI don't agree this sentence
    in some situations, when I sit\r\nto design something in Photoshop always the
    first thing\r\nthat I create is better than the others that I put more\r\neffort
    & attention to design it. As my previous Basic\r\nDesign introductor Alex says
    \"The first photograph that\r\nI took is always better than the second and third\".
    As I\r\nsaid before, in some situations less effort & attention\r\nmay be the
    result of the better products.\r\n\r\nIf a project seems insignificant and simple
    at the\r\nbeginning - it could only mean that with the proper 'care,\r\nattention,
    and effort', it could become a grand success and\r\ncan triple in value. The more
    'care, attention, and effort'\r\nis involved in the process of any development,
    the more\r\nsignificant it becomes - truly great masterpieces (from\r\nart to
    relationships) have required massive attention,\r\nendless effort, and constant
    care. These components make\r\nthe value priceless, and the more the input of
    those\r\ncomponents, the higher the price and greater the value.\r\n\r\nSometimes
    less is more taking attention than the more one.\r\nSuch as if you write something
    much but boring, the reader\r\nmight not read the whole text. So, you should write
    the\r\ntext less and also readable. It might help the reader to\r\nunderstand
    it.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[8.]\r\n\r\n\r\nBesides the laws of the physical universe,
    we can not\r\nunderestimate or ignore the facts of what is artifical;\r\nsociety.
    Society is somewhat different than nature, it is\r\nsomething made with intention
    by people. A design of any\r\nkind for example an architectural structure can
    be\r\nconsidered more successful, if it fits within its\r\nsurroundings, within
    the city it's gonna be in, the human\r\ncontext; social context it's gonna be
    a part of, otherwise\r\nit will be detached from its environment, it won't\r\ncommunicate
    with its surrounding social context, it will\r\nfail to enter a dialogue with
    its environmental social\r\naspects.\r\n\r\nIf you want to have a good, different
    consequence you\r\nshould force the limits of  reality and even certainty.\r\nYou
    should have an extraordinary point of view. Sometimes\r\nan abstract element is
    as significant as a concrete\r\nelement. In art when creating a simple work, you
    should go\r\nbeyond the physical walls and look for the answer up in\r\nthe sky
    which is unknown and abstract.\r\n\r\nThings will be straigh forward, if you recognise
    what is\r\npossible and follow the rules of society.\r\n\r\nTrying to achive the
    aim of the physical universe you\r\nshould take the absolute laws from it. For
    the artifical\r\nuniverse you should also constrain importance and equalize\r\nthem
    when striving for simplicity. That means you should\r\ntake parts from both of
    them but to simplify it in a equal\r\nway. By making them equally simple, you
    are also balancing\r\nthem in a specific way. Things get really plain if you\r\njust
    follow the rules of the artifical universe. In a way\r\nthey are different but
    if you know how to intagrate them\r\nto each other you will understand the system
    easily.\r\n\r\nI think we are dealing with infinity and living inside\r\nof it.
    So we have infinite possiblities of actions and\r\nopportunities. However at the
    same time we are limited\r\nin infinite ways both physically and mentally or both\r\nuniversally
    and individually; but it does not cause much\r\nproblem because infinite minus
    infinite will still give\r\nyou the infinite.That means we are totally free and
    we can\r\nstill prefer simplicity even if the situations forces us\r\nto be complex.
    For example if we are designing a poster to\r\nadvertise some thing which needs
    to be given in details we\r\ncan not simply ignore some of the details, because
    we are\r\ndependent on who we are advertising to live. However we\r\ncan still
    simplify it in a smart way. I don't want to go\r\nfurther in that example, just
    like a science-fiction\r\nwriter who does not have to invent beaming up people,\r\nin
    order to write it.\r\n\r\nMaybe the answer that you are looking for simplicity
    is\r\nnot within the border of the nature and maybe nature is\r\nnot making it
    any easier for you at all. May be artificial\r\nlaws formed by human experience
    can lead you to simplicity\r\nmore easily in the name of gained experience. Do
    not wait\r\nfor the rain if you're thirsty open your tap and drink it.\r\n\r\nIf
    you gonna stick the unconditional salt, you cant rule\r\nthe large areas. For
    our area I mean designing, we should\r\nnot recognize only the absolute laws 'cause
    those laws\r\nmaybe restrict our way of seeing and doing. Simplicity is\r\nthe
    main aim for every human being to understand it, our\r\nworks should be world-wise
    as i said in the previous\r\nsentences.\r\n\r\nWhen creating something (be it
    artistic or routine),\r\nsimplicity is a necessary element of production, for
    it\r\nbrings with it sense, unity, and conclusion. There are\r\n'absolute laws'
    that have been established throughout the\r\ntime period of human existence; these
    laws are constraints\r\nand sometimes even obstacles (yet, they must be kept in\r\nmind
    when anything is being created, as not to disturb the\r\nbalance of nature). In
    order to achieve a more meaningful\r\nand unique result, one must strive to 'look
    outside the\r\nbox' and appreciate not only the norm - the given laws,\r\nbut
    also be able to balance that with the 'artificial'\r\nlaws, hence, embellishing
    the result.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[9.]\r\n\r\n\r\nSometimes the more you gain experience
    of doing something,\r\nthe more you repeat it in time, you convert it in a\r\nsimplier
    state each time. Once you become highly\r\nexperienced about that issue, once
    you accumulate\r\nknowledge you become more refined and you start being able\r\nto
    evaluate it simpler in your mind subconciously.\r\n\r\nWhen we're simplifying
    something we eliminate the details\r\nwhich are less important, and sometimes
    our brain\r\nautomatically does it for us grounding it upon our\r\nexperiences.
    We subconsciously know what will work and\r\nwhat won't, as our brain makes a
    habit of categorizing\r\nand grouping elements due to past studies.\r\n\r\nSimplicity
    is mostly related to the concious reduction.\r\nSimplicity has also a different
    ways related with the\r\nunconcious. The thoughts stucked in your unconcious has\r\nnot
    spreaded. So they are not the forms to reflect\r\nsimplicity. But the complicated
    forms may cause\r\ncomplexity. Unconcious is the illusion of the stucked\r\nforms
    lying inside. It's really hard to relate them to the\r\nreality so it is also
    hard to make them simple. But also\r\na complex system can be simplified by grouping
    the\r\nfunctions. Be conciously simple by relating them to simple\r\nforms.\r\n\r\nI
    am not the expert of psycology so i can not make\r\ngeneralised predictions about
    this expression; but i\r\nbelieve that sub-conscious can also make simplifications\r\nusually.
    Besides that it doesn't matter which part of our\r\nconsciouses make simplifications
    and reductions,more\r\noften; but it is much more important that the which part\r\nis
    the target of the simpfied things. I think, the answer\r\nis the sub-conscious
    and simple creations have great power\r\nto enter there and stay there. At the
    same time, according\r\nto Freud the sub-conscious controls the life, so we can\r\nunderstand
    that why all commertial logos designed by the\r\npeople who are extremely interested
    in simplicity.\r\n\r\nFiltering is a kind of simplification, as well as\r\nsubconsious
    oppressing your thoughts. You would\r\nunserstand, by instinct, that some of the
    messages, in a\r\ncertain way, would not be readable to some people, so you\r\nreduct
    it.\r\n\r\nMostly we do simplify consciously, probably, because of we\r\nare disturb
    by the noise or unnecessary emphasis. However\r\nif it is done subconsciously
    may be it is because we tend\r\nto simplify subconsciously because we use to do
    it. Again\r\nmay be subconsciously we know we can communicate easily\r\nif we
    simplify.\r\n\r\nIn order to simplify, one must break up (or 'reduce')\r\nthe
    chain of complications that hinders the process of\r\nsimplification. Human beings
    are fully aware of this,\r\nand therefore 'consciously reduce' the details and\r\nimpediments,
    that way decreasing the amount of complexity\r\nto a minimum, and achieving simplification.
    Subconscious\r\ncompression on the other hand is not reduction - it is not\r\ngetting
    rid of complexities, but 'compressing' them\r\ntogether to create a fastidious
    and detailed final result;\r\na result that was derived not from reduction but
    from\r\ncompression. This 'compression' is subconscious, more\r\nunique and hence
    more valuable than the commonly known\r\n'reduction'.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[10.]\r\n\r\n\r\nIf
    you think of a less and more two opposite sides of a\r\nstraight line, one each
    end, equilibrium point, at which\r\nbalance & harmony is achieved should not necessarily
    fall\r\nin the middle of these two poles. It can be found at many\r\npoints that
    exist through that straight line. But the top\r\npoint of less which is the ''simplest''
    and and the top\r\npoint of more which is \"complex\" can never be the\r\nequilibrium
    point because they are extremes, they dont\r\nprovide any balance. Choosing only
    black&white colors for\r\na design may be \"too less\", those two colors may not
    be\r\nenough to express, to say the things that you wanna say\r\nbut you may think
    using bright colors would totally\r\ndestroy the effect you want to achieve, so
    between between\r\nthese two extremes, you have plenty of options, you might\r\nwant
    to have light colors or a little more brighter colors\r\nrather than very light
    ones.You can achieve the equilibrium\r\npoint at which you obtain balance between
    these two\r\nextremes, but choosing one of them, only black and white\r\nor the
    brightest colors would not be the the answer to the\r\nproblem, would not create
    the balance you're looking for.\r\n\r\nLoading too much to a work does not mean
    that it is\r\nperfect. Also leaving it before it is mature in order\r\nto make
    it simple and not too complex does not make it\r\nexcellent. If we want to achieve
    equilibrium we should try\r\nto avoid touching extreme points. Simplicity lies
    in the\r\nthin line between less and more and it is difficult to be\r\non that
    line.\r\n\r\nThe work you are producing may breed less or more. They\r\nhave a
    really delicate line between them. In order to make\r\nyour work equally balanced,
    you should control its own\r\nlimits and you shouldnt add any unnecessary things
    in it.\r\nThen you can control the avarage. The line lying between\r\nless and
    more is really breakable and oversensitive. It\r\ncan even fall to the ground
    or fly through to the extreme\r\npoint. By controlling the limits carefully and
    balanced\r\nthe work will be in a equilibrium.\r\n\r\nThat \"less breeds less
    and more breeds more, except the\r\nextremes\" is not a universal fact. Sometimes
    less can\r\nbreed more and the more can not and this cases may not be\r\nextremes
    always. Actually less in other words simple in\r\nexpression can create more effect
    in mind. Because of its\r\nsimplicity it can pass though human minds' self-protection\r\nmechanism.
    Besides that in limited time people can even not\r\nperceive and understand fully,
    a more; but at same\r\nlimitation they can even percieve understand and evaluate,\r\na
    less; and maybe much more.\r\n\r\nLess is not always meaning simple and more is
    not always\r\ncomplex. Simplicity lies in the middle of them (but close\r\nto
    the less side for most of the time, imho). Using too\r\nmouch objects in the project
    could make it less legible,\r\nand using less objects would not give the message\r\nproperly.
    The posters we see in the streets; they would\r\nhave a lot of information on
    them but that makes hard to\r\nunderstand the real thing, and sometimes they give
    too\r\nlittle information so it is also hard to understand them.\r\n\r\nEquilibrium
    can be only gained by the harmony of elements\r\nused. For example, on the project
    you're using a color lot\r\n(let's say extremely lot) and another less there the\r\nbalance
    will be lost. Again on another example, you are\r\nusing an element in small amount,
    then you don't have the\r\nemphasis, however if you use it to much again all you
    have\r\ngot will be noise. There for equilibrium is somewhere\r\nbetween but never
    close to the extremes.\r\n\r\nI know from the Science lessons from High school
    that the\r\nworld has a natural cycle and a balance, in every way.\r\nEg: Animal
    A eats Animal B to survive, same here with Animal\r\nB, with Animal C. If Animal
    A eats lots of Animal B, the\r\nnumber of the Animal B will decrease after a time
    period\r\ncause the number of the Animal B decreased the number of\r\nthe Animal
    C, will increase this un-balanced situation\r\nwill be balance when the Animal
    A is overnumbered and\r\ncan't find Animal B's to survive, so the number of the\r\nAnimal
    B will increase... This goes like this. To show it\r\non a simple graphic:\r\n\r\n5kg----------3kg
    ===> there is a balance between them, 4kg;\r\n5kg----------0kg ===> but here there
    is not an equilibrium,\r\n                     there is no absolout balance here.\r\n\r\nWhen
    planning to reach a positive outcome, one must always\r\nkeep in mind the two
    extreme sides of the argument that are\r\npossible. The 'less' side consists of
    absence of detail,\r\nstraightforward conservative and minimalist elements, and\r\npure
    simplicity; the 'more' side, is completely opposite\r\nin detail, value, and intent.
    If only one side is taken\r\ninto account when producing things or making decisions,\r\nthen
    the decision would be biased, subjective and extreme.\r\nThus, both sides should
    be weighed, examined and juxtaposed\r\nin order to reach an ideally objective
    consensus. Balance =\r\nperfect solution.\r\n\r\nEverything has to be normal.
    Sometimes less is not better\r\nas more one and more is not good as less one.
    If you are\r\nmaking pasta, you should not leave it in boiling water too\r\nmuch,
    because it makes the pasta like dough. Less boiling\r\nis not also good for pasta.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nCharacters
    : 39500\r\n\r\nAuthors :\r\n\r\nAsl\u0131 Deniz Mete\r\nBurcu Baykan\r\n\xC7agri
    Biber\r\nEla Agalar\r\nEmre Bak\u0131r\r\nLevent Ince\r\nMaria Goncharova\r\nNeslihan
    Tepehan\r\n\xD6zg\xFCr Demir\r\nSimge Y\xFCceel\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-11 19:44:13'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Characters : 39500</em>\r\n\r\nHmmm... seems to me that things were
    made more complicated than simple!"
  created: '2005-10-11 20:14:50'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: SoHappy, what aspects of typography are you interested in? History, theory,
    design, application?
  children:
  - author:
      name: sohappy2
      picture: 111043
    body: "traci\r\n\r\nI'm most interested in design and application, but I recognize
      that theory and history are integral to those. One can't design without understanding
      design, no? \r\n\r\n"
    created: '2005-10-12 15:16:08'
  created: '2005-10-11 20:29:20'
- author:
    name: magnus_gaarde
    picture: 109904
  body: "As metioned before Elements of Typographic Style is brilliant. And an excellent
    investment for an aspiring typophile.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/wiki/Elements%20of%20Typographic%20Style\r\n\r\nAlso
    see the huge compilation of type related links on Typebase.\r\nhttp://www.typebase.com/\r\n\r\nMKSG"
  created: '2005-10-12 15:35:54'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "\r\n> One can\u2019t design without understanding design, no?\r\n\r\nThere
    is a semiotic problem in your question, but you are right,\r\ndesign is first
    and foremost an intellectual process.\r\n\r\nHow to enlighten a client about what
    the client needs to know\r\nabout what we do.  That last part is almost like educating
    kids\r\nabout where babies come from...\r\nYou only have to give the answer that
    makes sense at the level\r\nof understanding of the person asking the question.\r\n\r\nMr.
    Norbert Florendo, there is objectivity in reaching and\r\nteaching simplicity,
    as you can find more characters in the\r\nEncyclopedia.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAS"
  created: '2005-10-12 17:38:32'
- author:
    name: jarvis
  body: paul mccartney cant read music....
  created: '2005-10-12 17:51:59'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: But Paul McCartney isn't that great a musician...
  created: '2005-10-12 18:25:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> Paul McCartney isn\u2019t that great a musician\u2026\r\n\r\n\"I thought
    John \r\nwas the one, \r\nbut then I learned Paul \r\nhad it all.\"\r\n\r\n--Little
    Richard on his experience touring with the Beatles early in their career. \r\n\r\nPaul
    McCartney is the premier composer of my generation. No one has a body of work
    to compare. Of course, the Lennon-McCartney collaboration had a magic that no
    one, including each of them as solos was able to match. But McCartney was the
    greater writer of melody. \r\n\r\nSo who wrote and sang better stuff than Yesterday
    and Hey Jude?"
  created: '2005-10-12 19:02:01'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Okay, so I'm really dissing on his solo stuff... Maybe McCartney had it all,
    but there must have been something in the collaboration that made the Beatles
    work because Paul alone hasn't done anything worth listening to in decades.\r\n\r\nContrast
    that with Joe Strummer (The Clash, Big Audio Dynamite, BAD). Hey, he wasn't formally
    trained either... maybe I'm making Jarvis' point anyway. =)"
  created: '2005-10-12 19:45:09'
- author:
    name: sohappy2
    picture: 111043
  body: "Does everyone else believe, as AS does, that design is an intellectual process
    \"first and foremost?\" \r\n\r\nIt seems to me that there is a \"head/heart\"
    balance that needs to be navigated. It seems wise to avoid both the extreme of
    being too steeped in rules and also too reliant on creative expression that isn't
    rooted in a basic understanding of design theory and history. \r\n\r\nAre the
    best designers the \"smartest?\" If so, what does that mean? \r\nWhat does the
    exceptional designer see that the good one misses? \r\nWhat does she know that
    her colleagues don't know? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-12 19:52:52'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I might nominate Van Dyke Parks and Robert Wyatt as premier composers from
    the Beatles gen. Jim O'Rourke from mine.\r\n\r\nWhen the student is ready, the
    master disappears."
  created: '2005-10-12 20:09:52'
- author:
    name: jarvis
  body: to go off subject or maybe on it....mccartneys current album is brilliant.
  created: '2005-10-12 20:20:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The trouble is, we define exceptional designers as the ones who have exceptional
    clients (the ones with money, prestige, and who recognize design as important
    to their status in the business).  There are plenty of great designers working
    for clients of little renown and who therefore achieve no status. There are also
    well regarded designers who have good marketing skills and connections but are
    pretty unexceptional as designers. \r\nThe smarter the designer the better the
    problem solver. The more \"artistic\" the designer the more visually appealing
    the result.  The problem is that you can create a visually appealing piece of
    work which does not do much to solve the clients problem.  Likewise, you can solve
    a problem intellectually but fail to give it the form it needs to succeed. The
    ideal designer is the Yin/Yang composite who can do both at the same time.  \r\nThe
    exceptional designer sees the REAL problem and solves it.  The challenge is to
    convince the client that your solution is what is needed.  \"You can't always
    get what you want--but if you try some time, you just might find, that you get
    what you need.\"--said another rock star who can't read music.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-12 20:20:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I'm echoing a lot of what Chris L wrote.\r\n\r\nExceptional designers do
    a great job in the face of difficulty and adversity. How they do it may be fascinating
    and where all the work is, but there's no formula to it.\r\n\r\nThat being said,
    design is rarely without constraints and restrictions, many of which require planning
    and thought. A great band poster or album design often involves more heart than
    head, but a solid interface, or an emergency manual that can be used in a rain
    storm during a panic involves much more head.\r\n\r\nDefining design is far less
    useful than defining the design problem and working with it. Design is easy. Successful
    design is the real trick, and that's specific to the project."
  created: '2005-10-12 20:31:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Well said, Chris L. \r\n\r\nThe lack of music reading ability of McCartney
    is misleading, because you can misconstrue this as a lack of musical education.
    Writing and performing the kind of music McCartney does doesn't require notation.
    --You do need it for orchestration though. \r\n\r\nMcCartney was very educated
    in music, by listing and playing. When you play guitar or bass, you learn chord
    structure, and its relation to melody. So he is extremely knowledgeable and educated
    in music, just not musical notation. Same with Louis Armstrong. \r\n\r\nUnlike
    type design, in music, it's not on the page and in the eye, is in the sound and
    the ear.   "
  created: '2005-10-12 21:02:12'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Design is easy. Successful design is the real trick, and that\u2019s
    specific to the project.</em>\r\n\r\nRight on, Chris. The problem I see with the
    industry at large is the failure to identify the difference between the two."
  created: '2005-10-12 21:18:02'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Back on topic:\r\n1) If you want to learn how to make type I recommend \"Logo,
    Font & Lettering Bible\" by Leslie Cabarga\r\n2) See above and purchase a copy
    of Type Tool (the ultra-lite version of FontLab)\r\n3) As mentioned earlier, check
    out Type Directors Club events in New York."
  created: '2005-10-12 21:23:22'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Traci,\r\nyou have to employ artistic methods to visualize your design process\r\nand
    your thoughts. The heart is very important, too.\r\n\r\n\"Time is the best teacher.\r\n
    Unfortunately,\r\n it kills all its students.\"\r\n\r\nAS"
  created: '2005-10-12 21:55:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Traci, I think good design is first and foremost about servitute.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-12 22:25:58'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Then we will serve Traci a pasta link :\r\nhttp://briem.ismennt.is/\r\n\r\nAS"
  created: '2005-10-12 22:41:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The sauce is old.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-12 22:44:17'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: Amen
  created: '2005-10-12 22:56:53'
- author:
    name: sohappy2
    picture: 111043
  body: 'ok, so i don''t get the pasta reference. help! '
  created: '2005-10-13 01:26:01'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Why, Tracy ?\r\nDon't tell me that you are not curious. Please use your sauce.\r\nCheck
    out this movie http://www.hotelrwanda.com/intro.html\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAS"
  created: '2005-10-13 06:02:59'
- author:
    name: andytlr
  body: "I was going to suggest a website called Notes on Type Design, until I clicked
    on the link \u2013http://briem.ismennt.is/ \u2013 Alessandro Segalini posted and
    realised I had only been looking at part of the whole website ... I have gone
    through every single page of that website and printed to PDF then joined them
    all into one PDF that can be printed easily (just under 150 pages) so if anyone
    wants a copy, email me \u2013 andytlr at gmail.com \u2013 and I'll send it to
    you, it is 5.5mb so I'll split it into two if anyone wants it.\r\n\r\nI haven't
    read the whole book but I have had a very good look at the Elements of Typographic
    Style book and that is exelent. Although I think the Briem website is easier to
    understand from a base level.\r\n\r\nI'm really only just starting to learn myself
    so don't necessiarly take my word for it on everything. But I think another great
    way to learn is just to examine what you know is good ... look at those typefaces
    that have seemingly been around forever, look at their detail, read up on their
    histories and so on.\r\n\r\nI found it really interesting to look at some of the
    main independent foundries as well.\r\n\r\nI'm just going to throw in a list of
    links in no particular order, make of it what you will:\r\nhttp://typeradio.org/\r\nhttp://briem.ismennt.is/\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/\r\nhttp://www.fontlab.com/\r\nhttp://www.vllg.com/\r\nhttp://ms-studio.com/\r\nhttp://www.stormtype.com/\r\nhttp://youworkforthem.com/\r\nhttp://www.underware.nl/\r\nhttp://www.the-letterbox.com.au/\r\nhttp://www.typographi.com/\r\nhttp://www.emigre.com/\r\nhttp://www.typeculture.com/\r\nhttp://www.houseindustries.com/\r\n\r\nHope
    some of this helps,\r\nAndy"
  created: '2005-10-14 08:12:14'
date: '2005-10-09 21:53:46'
title: i really really want to learn typography (well) but...

---
