---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "Here is one of the new type families I have been working on for the past few
  months. It started out as a display face but I pushed towards the text face side.
  \ There are 3 weights in the posted PDF: light, regular and bold. There are small
  caps and oldstyle figures as well as all the CE glyphs. See if you can tell what
  I have \"almost\" done.\r\nAny help would be greatly appreciated.  I really benefitted
  from my first font here last year and am hoping the comments will be as fruitful
  this time.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
comments:
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I see a lot of potential in this font as a display face for magazines and
    even corporate identity altough it's clear this is not a face for setting extended
    amounts of text. \r\n\r\nI like a lot it's technical appearance, the light weight
    is specially sexy. Ligatures, punctuation and special characters look terrific.\r\n\r\nI
    can't really help you with my crits because this is such a good work so congratulations.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-10-14 05:08:14'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Ok, I have one... the upper case S looks like a bended clip, like it's too
    open. Also the lower right leg of the & (the diagonal) seems like isn't firmly
    stepping on the baseline.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-10-14 05:14:59'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Chris, I like it! But I agree with H\xE9ctor about display/text\u2026 the
    face is too \"regular\" to work in text. Everything has an even, repetitous rhythm.
    To work in text, a face needs to be more irregular, if you get what I mean.\r\n\r\nI
    don't have much critique for you. Like H\xE9ctor says, I would try to bring it
    to market soon.\r\n\r\nHere's a request: how about a single-storey g? You always
    seem to make such peculiar g's. I would like an alternate if I were to use this
    face."
  created: '2005-10-14 08:35:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "H\xE9ctor and Dan, thanks for your kind words and helpful suggestions. I
    will give them a try. Thanks to your encouragement, I am hoping to submit it to
    foundries soon.\r\n\r\nThe first version I drew was the light caps and small caps.
    I was looking for a squarish face for smallcaps and couldn\u2019t find what I
    wanted so I started designing my own.  I did a few characters in Adobe Illustrator
    for a simple heading on the job I was working on.  I then brought it to FontLab
    to extend.  I did two kinds of Lights, this one which is very regular and squared
    with equal proportions and another (which I will post soon as a separate face)
    in classic Roman proportions and much rounder. The lowercase in both was an afterthought
    at the time. I then did the bold and went back and forth with the light a few
    times before starting the regular.  I did a \u201Cmedium\u201D too but it needs
    work.\r\nDan, I will try an alternate single-story g which should be quite easy
    to add. What bothers you about my double-bowl g? I know it is a bit out of mainstream
    but what else is troubling to you?\r\nH\xE9ctor, I will look at the S and & again
    to see if I can fix them a bit. I understand what you mean about long text.  I
    would not intend this face for a novel.  You and Dan are right It is a more corporate
    or technical face.\r\n\r\nHas anyone figured out what I \u201Calmost\u201D did
    yet? A hint is in the name and is somewhat apparent on pages 5, 6, & 7 of my PDF.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-14 14:19:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: you "almost" made the charwidths the same for all three weights! very cool.
    great concept. so explain the "almost" part, please.
  created: '2005-10-14 14:27:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"you \u201Calmost\u201D made the charwidths the same for all three weights!\"\r\n\r\nDead
    on Paul!\r\n\r\nThe \"almost\" is that I did not do it intentionally.  It just
    happened.  I am a very \"optical\" kind of guy and just judge everything by eye.
    \ When I did each weight, I did the metrics as I felt would be best for the way
    it looks.  I didn't even notice how similar the fit was until I printed the above
    PDF! Now that I see it, I think I will try to push the \"almost\" a bit more and
    see if it works. This \"Align\" concept would be a good way to insure fit in text
    when you were adding bold or light in the copy and then changed your mind.  You
    would not have to worry about reflow! I am sure someone else must have thought
    of this before though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-14 14:42:10'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I am sure someone else must have thought of this before though.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is not a new concept, but i think most families that employ this use them for
    maybe only a small range of weights (2-3 max?) I recently did this for the light
    and regular weights of <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/lanston/products/cloister.html\">LTC
    Cloister</a>. To see this carried out through a whole range of weights from light
    to bold (and maybe even black) would be really tricky and something to be proud
    of, i would think. The big trick is to make sure that none of the designs are
    overly compromised due to spacing restrictions..."
  created: '2005-10-14 14:47:58'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>>Dan, I will try an alternate single-story g which should be quite easy
    to add. What bothers you about my double-bowl g? I know it is a bit out of mainstream
    but what else is troubling to you?</em>\r\n\r\nI guess that I just don't like
    it. Maybe its a mainstream thing, but I just think that it is wierd. And in display
    sizes, you can't look away (you can sort of get away with things in text, I guess).
    Please don't hate me :("
  created: '2005-10-14 14:50:25'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<Em>>most families that employ this use them for maybe only a small range
    of weights (2-3 max?)</em>\r\n\r\nThe reason for this is that, on an old [[Linotype
    Machine]] matrix, you could have two different fonts. But the characters had to
    have the smae width. The Roman would either be duplexed with the Italic, or with
    the Bold. This is why Times Bold looks so cramped.\r\n\r\nSometimes, a newspaper
    Serif face would be duplexed with a Sans. This sort of thing can still be seen
    in some digital faces, like [[Compatil]]."
  created: '2005-10-14 14:52:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Please don\u2019t hate me :(\"\r\n\r\nDan,\r\nDon't sweat it.  I have thick
    enough skin.  When I ask for a crit, I don't expect everyone to just say good
    things.  We are all colleagues here just trying to help eachother do better work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-14 15:18:37'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I actually like the g a lot, it goes very well with the technical style of
    the face.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-10-14 15:53:09'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i think the g is great, but i'm always for alternates.
  created: '2005-10-14 15:54:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks guys. I'll add the alternate g tonight. It never hurts to give the
    user options.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-14 19:01:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "On P8 of the pdf, your u/c V is different (so is the small caps l/c version)
    in the Regular from the other two weights. In the light and bold the cap V looks
    backwards to me (especially in view of the l/c v). I think I prefer the regular
    weight cap V which means maybe the u/c A should be a rotational version of the
    V in terms of the curve at the top being on the other side. \r\n\r\nDid you ever
    try an M with sloping sides as per W?\r\n\r\nDo you want me to go now?"
  created: '2005-10-14 21:31:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "Should the terminals on the S and s slope the other way (like the f, j and
    the ear on the g?) Do you need to slope the terminals on the z too?\r\n\r\nThe
    C and c look a bit narrow.\r\n\r\nTerminals on E, F, H, G, (maybe K), P and R
    all look like they are sloping the wrong way, mainly because the A seems to be
    setting the rule and I think the A is back-to-front.\r\n\r\nNow shall I go?"
  created: '2005-10-14 21:46:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick, Please Don't go! :-)\r\n\r\nThe V on the regular version is correct.
    \ The other weights I meant to flip but forgot. The rule is set by the lc v and
    the others should match it.  Only the regular  does so.\r\nI tried both the diagonal
    M and the squared W and found both too jarring so I went back to the conventional
    straight M.\r\nThe s fits neighboring characters better slopped the way I have
    done it.  I tried the other way and the stroke just didn't pull around enough.\r\nI
    fought with the 2 c's many times.  When the size is small the narrower way works;
    when the type is large, the wider c seems better.  It was more of a color issue
    and I found I just had to compromise.\r\nI don't understand your comment about
    the slopes on the EFGKPR terminals. They all slope the same way.  Perhaps you
    mean it goes against the calligraphic flat pen angle model? The slope direction
    I gave it gives a bit more air to the lower counter as opposed to the upper making
    the vertical balance better to my eyes. I didn't feel that the flat pen model
    had a bearing on such a non-calligraphic face. I just used positive to negative
    space reasoning (dare I say Notan:-) The angle cuts help reduce dark spots at
    the joins. This face was intended as more of a tech/corporate as opposed to a
    warm humanistic face. I think that traditional type and calligraphy savvy users
    would probably agree with you on that though.\r\n\r\nThanks Nick for taking the
    time and care to comment and by all means stay :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-14 22:31:52'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Well, I guess I'm going to sound like a broken record, but I think it looks
    nice Chris. I think its nearly ready for submission as well. I think it looks
    nice as a display face, but as has been stated before it probably won't work for
    text.\r\n\r\nChris, I agree with Dan. I don't like the \"g\" either. You do seem
    to make weird 'g\"s. Sometimes conventional is appropriate. I disagree about the
    mainstream comment though, because right now two story \"g\"s seem to be all the
    rage in sans serif faces. \r\n\r\nGood show, Chris\u2014 two months?...you must
    not have been sleeping. :)"
  created: '2005-10-14 23:11:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: 'Another thought: Maybe the terminals on the S and s should do the same as
    those on the C, G and c?'
  created: '2005-10-14 23:16:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Maybe the terminals on the S and s should do the same as those on the C,
    G and c?\"\r\n\r\nThat sounds like a possibility.  I will give it a shot Nick.\r\n\r\n\"...You
    do seem to make weird \u2018g's\"\r\nGuilty as charged Terry :-)\r\n\r\n\"...
    two months?\u2026you must not have been sleeping. :)\"\r\n\r\nI got so charged
    up after meeting all of you at TypeCon that I got a burst of energy. I am sure
    I will crash shortly.  Last year I worked on Leporello (my other weird g face)
    from April until January and then did nothing until coming back from New York
    this summer.\r\nI am really a slow piker compared to James Montalbano at TerminalDesign
    though.  He can really crank it out quick and it's damn good too!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-15 01:41:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nice going Chris. I like the numerals especially. They are more round than
    the letters though. \r\n\r\nI am wondering if you can find a better solution for
    the crotches of the diagonals. They don't seem to totally in harmony with the
    cut joins on the connections of the branches. \r\n\r\nCheck on whether the a,g,e,
    and s would be better narrowerer. The curved leg on the K, k looks a little out
    of place. Should the 'cut' on the 'a' be at the top of the bowl instead of the
    bottom?\r\n\r\nI'm going to be away from the internet for a while, but good luck
    with this; it's promising. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-15 04:08:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have made the alternate g suggested by Dan and Terry and the s and S suggested
    by Nick.  I amtrying to figure out how to post a second PDF and I will as soon
    as I do. <grin>\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-15 17:41:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ahh, now I get it, you edit at the tp in the black bar, good :-)\r\n\r\nSee
    new attachment.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: I included the VERY SPECIAL OpenType
    Feature code for the alt g in the PDF for Dan and Terry's benefit :-)"
  created: '2005-10-15 17:45:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nI'll look at the joins you spoke of.\r\n\r\nThe numerals were
    made roundwer to helf differentiate them from letters.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-15 21:55:19'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Chris, can we see the alt characters in display size? I really see this as
    being a good marketable magazine display face. Lemme see it big!
  created: '2005-10-16 08:45:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Terry,\r\nAs Paula Scherr says, \"Make it Bigger\" :-)\r\nI will post one
    later today.  I guess I thought 18pt was display.\r\n\r\nBTW: You didn't respond
    to my OpenType Feature Joke?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-16 14:42:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have just uploaded a dummy title/contents page from a fictitious high-tech
    magazine which I call Gadgets&Gizmo. There are several VERY famous authors who
    have written articles so pay particular attention to the bylines.  \r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    Does anybody want to comment on my \"Feature\" code in my second post? Dan?"
  created: '2005-10-17 02:28:51'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Oh my god! This font face is terribly sexy man! I must have it...\r\n\r\nI
    like better the text with no alternates, but it's good to have choices.\r\n\r\n\r\nI've
    got another suggestion: the tail of the Q is too shy for my taste, maybe you could
    make it squared.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-10-17 04:27:19'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Chris, I guess I missed the joke. I also wanted to see the alt characters
    big. I wanted to see the alt \"g\" in that example. \r\n\r\nChris, your original
    \"g\" is growing on me though... I'd still like to see the other in context. Paula
    Scher and I writing an article together, ha! :) That would be interesting! (For
    me at least.) :)"
  created: '2005-10-17 05:18:28'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: I'm lovin' that alt g.
  created: '2005-10-17 05:35:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thank-you all!\r\n\r\nHector, As soon as I find a foundry, it will be available.
    \ Glad to have you as a first customer :-)\r\n\r\nDan, I am glad to be able to
    make the g whizz :-)\r\n\r\nTerry, Have you ever scripted Opentype features in
    FontLab? If not, it might be hard to understand the joke. What I had written in
    the 2nd PDF was the contextual alternates feature script where the glyph \"g\"
    was substituted for the glyph \"g.alt\" when the context was Dan and you as users.
    This of course is not possible, but it was a fun joke to code anyway:-) Sorry
    no one got it. :-(\r\nI will redo the magazine page using the alts tonight and
    post it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-17 12:57:06'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: just curious... are the alts the same width as the letters they replace? that'd
    be interesting to be in keeping with your "align" theme. just an idea...
  created: '2005-10-17 14:33:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: ":..are the alts the same width as the letters they replace?\"\r\n\r\nThe
    S and s is the same width but the g is a bit narrower. It takes a bit more space
    to fit the double bowled g.  William suggested that I make it (and the \"a\")
    narrower anyway.  The problem comes at smaller sizes. The g and a look too dark
    and tight when narrowed. At larger sizes, they can be narrowed without any problem.
    \ I will tinker some more and see what I can do with it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-17 15:07:29'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: Doesn't FF Balance have the same widths throughout the four weights? That
    might be one to look at if you want to pursue it.
  created: '2005-10-18 03:53:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Uniwidth is a great feature, but it tends to exert too much pressure (on
    the \"natural\" widths of the black bodies) on the outlying reaches of color.
    In the first version of Patria for example all four weights were uniwidth, but
    I couldn't get the Light to be tight enough without making the letterforms too
    wide and I couldn't get the Bold to be loose enough without making the letterforms
    too narrow. A good solution I arrived at was to leave the Regular and Demi uniwidth,
    but make the Light/Bold spaced tighter/looser by a fixed amount (tracking +/-10)
    thus giving the user an easy way to force uniwidth if desired.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 04:05:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...tighter/looser by a fixed amount (tracking +/-10) thus giving the user
    an easy way to force uniwidth if desired.\"\r\n\r\nSounds like a good solution
    Hrant. As long as you let your users know how it worked.  Perhaps a \"read me\"
    note was bundled with it? \r\n\r\n\"Doesn\u2019t FF Balance have the same widths
    throughout the four weights?\"\r\nKris, I'll take a look at it, thanks.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-18 14:08:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have just added an updated PDF of my fake magazine.  I redid the initial
    page using the alts and added 2 more pages with BIG type to satisfy Terry:-)\r\nThe
    last 2 pages are the same except the final page uses the alts.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-20 02:13:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "did you get your \"rri\" problem sorted out? can you show us how you're coding
    this and maybe we can help.\r\n\r\nif you want two alternate r's before the i,
    there are a couple ways you could do this\r\n\r\nfeature calt { # contextual alternate\r\nsub
    r' r [i j] by r.alt;\r\nr' [i j] by r.alt;\r\n} calt;\r\n\r\nor\r\n\r\nfeature
    calt { # contextual alternate\r\nsub r' [i j] by r.alt;\r\nsub r' r.alt by r.alt;\r\n}
    calt;\r\n\r\ni'm not sure if one of these is preferred over the other, but it
    it were me, i think i'd pick the first. hope this helps...\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-20 18:18:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nYours is one permutation that I did not try.  I tried (individually):\r\n\r\nsub
    rr\u2019 [i j] by r.alt;\r\nsub r'r\u2019 [i j] by r.alt;\r\nsub r'r\" [i j] by
    r.alt;\r\n\r\nThanks Paul, Let me give yours a try\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-20 22:48:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nI just tried your script.  The first one works GREAT!!! \r\nSee
    my most recent attached PDF file above called \"PaulTerrific.pdf\"\r\n\r\nTHANKS!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thanksCowboy.jpg]"
  created: '2005-10-20 23:37:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have worked on the metrics to equalize the 3 weights so that they truly
    \"Align\" so I posted above a new 2-page PDF showing a column of text in each
    weight in both lower case and small caps. The file is named Align_3weightAlign.pdf\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-22 03:47:15'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: "<mytwocents>\r\nIt seems as if a rectangle dot for the 'i' glyph would be
    more appropriate. Or possibly a dimond dot?\r\n</mytwocents>"
  created: '2005-10-22 07:57:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"It seems as if a rectangle dot for the \u2018i\u2019 glyph would be more
    appropriate. Or possibly a dimond dot?\"\r\n\r\nHi Kyle, thanks for the input.
    \ I actually started out with a square dot and felt it was too similar to the
    rest. Since all the strokes are so rectalinear, i thought it would be good to
    oppose them with a \"Dot-Line\" treatment (kinda' Morse Code :-).  As the weights
    get bolder, you may notice that the dots get more square.  I needed to hold the
    weight within the narrow space so that was my compromise.  \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-22 15:08:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "OK Terry,\r\nHere is a TASTE of BIGGER!  You will have to download the PDF
    to get the FULL affect :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/BIGgizmos.jpg]"
  created: '2005-10-23 00:03:48'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: I like the alt g, I just think the hook should be a little shorter under the
    bowl. (Man, am I picky!) I'm so used to the original "g" now it really doesn't
    make me any difference. :) Good show!
  created: '2005-10-25 16:29:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019m so used to the original \u201Cg\u201D now it really doesn\u2019t
    make me any difference. \"\r\n\r\nThis is what happens with type, when you first
    see something odd to you, you get an itch for what you are used to.  Then you
    get used to it and say, \"G-whizz, I wonder what all the fuss is about!\"\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n
    ChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-25 19:03:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But that's when the pertinence of a novelty moves \"down\" from the\r\nconscious
    to the subconscious layer - never simply disappearing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 21:00:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But that\u2019s when the pertinence of a novelty moves \u201Cdown\u201D
    from the\r\nconscious to the subconscious layer - never simply disappearing.\"\r\n\r\nI
    don't mean that it disappears.  I think it just takes its place in your personal
    reference of acceptable syntax. It seems what is happening in this rapidly exploding
    world of new fonts every day is that our vision of acceptable syntax is growing
    much more quickly than ever possible before.  This is a good thing.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-25 22:21:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it just takes its place in your personal reference of acceptable syntax.\r\n\r\nBut
    what it does to our subconscious is:\r\n1) Subvisible.\r\n2) Not necessarily good.\r\n3)
    Beyond our control.\r\n\r\nWe are neither programmable chips nor imaginary ethereal
    beings.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 22:31:19'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Well Hrant, and who tells our subconscious which is the \"standard model\"?
    I think that a \"g\" like this one or like the one in Quadraat are not that odd.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-10-26 01:23:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> who tells our subconscious which is the \u201Cstandard model\u201D?\r\n\r\nNow
    that's a good question.\r\n\r\n> ... not that odd.\r\n\r\nI didn't say they were.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-26 01:28:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I think that a \u201Cg\u201D like this one or like the one in Quadraat
    are not that odd.\"\r\n\r\nI think that to naive readers, those who are not involved
    in typography or design, the oddness is not perceived.  I think the average person
    just \"reads\" it.  I think that people who are very schooled in the typographic
    arena are more likely to notice that a glyph departs from the mainstream.  Some
    may have trouble fitting it into an academic reference and it may bother them.
    \ Others, like H\xE9ctor, who are more open to variation in form, just accept
    it as either a viable mutation or dislike it if it does not suit them.  I make
    a practice of showing text in types I am working on to mostly naive viewers without
    telling them anything other than to read the text.  I have yet to have anyone
    comment at all on the font. They just read. We, in the field dissect and categorize,
    looking for comparisons.  Sometimes this can cloud \"just looking\" and get in
    the way.  It is an occupational hazard I guess :-)\r\nIf a women asks her husband
    if \"She looks fat in this\" there will be no honesty in his answer (if he is
    smart).  If she asks a young child (and she NEVER will), she had better be prepared
    for the naive but very honest truth.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-26 02:17:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good points.\r\n\r\nBUT:\r\nType's relevance, especially in text, is \"subvisible\".
    The silence of the layman is a result of an inability to grasp, much less verbalize,
    what's happening deep in the subconscious; not of the alternative: that all types
    are basically the same! This is normal, and you're right that asking a type designer
    is quite often a can of worms. Yup, this makes it all quite a challenge!  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-26 02:29:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"... and you\u2019re right that asking a type designer is quite often a
    can of worms. \"\r\n\r\nThat is why it is very good to have several type designers
    of different opinions comment. You can get a notion from the disparity of views
    yet perhaps be opened to some very valid points.  I don't think you should have
    to heed every suggestion from them.  I think it is good to be forced to take a
    hard look at your own reasonings and divergence of opinion fosters that.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-26 12:57:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "What I think is at issue is if like in Meta or Fago the face is really intended
    to be used in text - or not. It works remarkably well there considering but I
    think it is really a headline & display face as it is presented at the moment.
    I have been working on some comments and have been stuck in some sense because
    of this ambiguity of purpose in my own mind. I suppose that ideally the face could
    do all these things. But Align's effectiveness as display face will eventaully
    be reduced by too much emphasis on text & vice versa. \r\n\r\nSo far I prefer
    Chris' double bowl g to the single bowl because it adds alot of flavor and is
    eye catching - and in a pleasing way. But if you were to set an article in Align
    I would want at least a suggestion of a closed lower bowl. Or the altrenate form.
    I am not sure it needs to close per se but putting a bend in the end might be
    a good plan - for text anyway.\r\n\r\nThe characters that still jump out at me
    are the w and thed y. In a logo they would arrest attention. A good thing! In
    text the catch & hold my eye which is tiring. The k and to a minor extent the
    x also feel this way to me.\r\n\r\nThe weights don't totally work for me. The
    Regular feels a little light and the bold feels more like a black to my eye. This
    effect is far more pronounced on screen than it is on my inkjet. I am curious
    to see what Hrant's idea looks like in print because the bold feels a little cramped
    to me. The regular a bit too.\r\n\r\nStill, I can't believe how easy this is on
    the eyes despite the superfical regularity of form. For some reason the irregular
    features and the pleasantness of the face for text seem greatest in the lightest
    weight. Does anybody else feel this way? I think that the rythm of the letters
    works best in the lightest weight. Thats probably why. I would love to see the
    regular with more light-like spacing!\r\n\r\nCongradulations Chris!"
  created: '2005-10-27 17:40:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I suppose that ideally the face could do all these things.\r\n\r\nI think
    that \"ideally\" you actually can't have a font that's both very good in text
    and very good in display. Trying results in luke-warm soup.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 17:49:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: ">Luke warm soup \r\n\r\nTrue.  But despite this underlying truth some fonts
    seem surprisingly strong in a variety of uses even if one of those uses is a core
    purpose. This is the ideal I was referring to. I can't advocate splitting the
    difference.  "
  created: '2005-10-27 18:06:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nThanks for joining in on the critique!\r\nWhen I started this face,
    my intention was just to do a light weight and as a display face (I had a job
    which needed something like this). I still think the light is the most successful
    weight.\r\nRegarding the weight issue--Inkjets notoriously add weight.  When I
    compare the same page printed on both my inkjet and Laser, It looks like a whole
    different set of weights.  I have yet to get Lino output or see Align printed
    offset but I am sure it will be noticably lighter than even my Laser. There is
    a discussion going on here about proofing which may interest you. http://typophile.com/node/15453\r\nRegarding
    text or display as a target usage--I can't imagine someone using Align in book
    publishing but I think it can be used in smaller doses of text. I will allow the
    user to decide that. I never thought Din would be set as text at all but obviously,
    many users think otherwise.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-27 19:00:07'
date: '2005-10-14 02:10:36'
files:
- filename: Align_postTpfle.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Align_postTpfle.pdf
- filename: Align_AltGTpfle.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Align_AltGTpfle.pdf
- filename: Gadget_Magazine.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Gadget_Magazine.pdf
- filename: Gadget_MagUpdate.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Gadget_MagUpdate.pdf
- filename: paulTerrific.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/paulTerrific.pdf
- filename: Align_3weightAlign.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Align_3weightAlign.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Align Sans--a bit on the square roundaboutly

---
