---
author:
  name: engelhardt
  picture: 111062
body: "Typophile community -- please help me defend your craft! <!--break-->\r\n\r\nRecently,
  in a local group of designers, a hot debate arose. (It should be noted that many
  of these are freelancers with small business clients.) \r\n\r\nTo make a long story
  short, there was much complaining about the high price of font licenses. Praise
  of using freebie fonts over expensive foundry fonts and under the table file sharing
  seemed to be the norm in this group. There was speculation as to \"how hard is it
  really to make a font\" (which was more-so in respect to digitizing one of the 'classics'
  rather than designing an entirely new typeface.) \r\n\r\nAs a graphic designer,
  this discussion really bothered me. However, I found I had no concrete ammo to back
  my side of the argument -- which is, you pay for <em>quality</em> and a lot more
  goes into type design than one would think. But not being a type designer, I couldn't
  say for sure how many hours it might take to \"redraw Caslon\" or why Adobe and
  ITC charge hundreds of dollars for font family licenses.\r\n\r\nNext time this topic
  comes up, I want to be prepared. Any info is greatly appreciated."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think most people would have to try to make/finish a font -not to\r\nmention
    get people to buy it- to realize that prices are actually LOW.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-14 20:50:57'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'do you/they  know any freebie plumber? car? house?  '
  created: '2005-10-14 20:58:47'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: They also cited not being able to convince clients to pay for the purchase
    of a new font if a freebie (or previously purchased) one is available -- even
    if it is lesser quality or not as appropriate for the design.
  created: '2005-10-14 21:05:12'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'My friend Mike explains to a client about the cost of a logo: "It took 20
    years experience to create this logo." Its not how long it takes to create the
    glyphs (physically) its the "x" years of experience to get to the point where
    you can create the glyphs. '
  created: '2005-10-14 21:06:06'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Using fonts with quality spacing and a full compliment of extras can save
    the graphic designer time -- huge amounts of time in a text heavy project like
    a magazine, newsletter, or book. That means a lower cost for the client and a
    quicker turnaround. In the long run, good fonts pay for themselves.
  created: '2005-10-14 21:10:46'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "As I told my mother-in-law (non-designer): a bulk of the work that goes into
    a good text face is not the letters, but the spaces between them. If you never
    think about the spacing of the type, then the designer did a good job. Ask them
    how hard it is, really, to draw and design a logo. I mean, the client gives them
    most of the answers and the logo's so simple.\r\n\r\nRight?\r\n\r\nOf course not.
    As for the hours involved: people I've spoken two can spend 8 hours on a few characters.
    Seriously, I surprised that working professional designers are even debating this.
    Do they not know what it's like to have people completely undervalue and hard-to-explain
    process? Any font's cost can be built into a job, or over the course of multiple
    jobs if they dont' want to charge outright.\r\n\r\nSeriously, those people need
    to grow up. Do they steal their photography too?"
  created: '2005-10-14 21:11:15'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I've made it a policy to <em>always</em> be up front about fonts and how
    much they cost. I only look to freebee fonts if I need something that's very visual/novelty/display
    oriented. They're shooting themselves in the foot if they lead off with \"Well,
    this font that costs $300 is great, but if you want I can find a free one that's
    not as good\". Sounds like the problem is client relationship management and managing
    expectations.\r\n\r\nYou get what you pay for."
  created: '2005-10-14 21:14:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Recently, in a local group of designers, a hot debate arose. \r\n\r\n...was
    this online, or in a meet-up type environment? I'd like to think it was in the
    basement of an old-school printers office in the industrial part of St Louis,
    where designers meet once a month to drink whisky, smoke smuggled-in Cubans etc.,
    But I'm likely wrong. \r\n\r\nReason I ask is that you'd likely be able to find
    a local type designer to come in and give a talk on what it takes to design a
    font. That would serve to educate the graphic designers as to the process, and
    might even lead to custom work for the type designer. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si  "
  created: '2005-10-14 21:29:51'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "This comes up with me *all the time* when I'm teaching typography. After
    suffering the same inarticulate frustrations as you, I end up getting into some
    rather arcane details re the time spent with kerning pairs, hinting (which I am
    practically making up as i go along), bezier curves and all sorts of shit that
    they're too young to know, but with which they are quite impressed. \r\n\r\nOne
    of the things i do is show them some screen captures from FontLab of the character
    sets and outlines of free fonts vs. a good commercial font. I tell them how many
    free fonts contain incomplete character sets, and how many of them are quickly
    and roughly autotraced, and i zoom in on the horrors of hundreds of twisted bezier
    points. Then I show them some breathtaking outlines from e.g. Ross Mills' Plantagenet
    and go on and on about how much time it takes to make that perfect, and how when
    you print these at large sizes you can see the beauty of the curves blah blah
    blah.\r\n\r\nI also warn them that poorly constructed fonts can cause Postscript
    errors (which may not even be true), acne and heart disease.\r\n\r\nI also encourage
    them, if they must use free fonts (and poor wee students always do), to go to
    good font designers' sites (of which i provide them a list), and try some of the
    free fonts they have on offereing which are either \"teasers\" or sometimes abandoned
    projects, but bound to be better constructed than what they might find at zang-o-fonts
    or whereverthehell they're picking up this shit.\r\n\r\nHow truthful any of this
    is undoubtedly debatable, but I too would appreciate a little more weaponry in
    this crusade of explanation.\r\n\r\nIncredibly, a student recently noted the poor
    spacing in the free font they used for a headline, and the time they spent to
    fix it. \r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2005-10-14 21:51:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What is a current hourly rate for plumbing?\r\nWhat is a current hourly rate
    for graphic design?\r\nWhat is a current hourly rate for flipping burgers?\r\nWhat
    is a current hourly rate for typeface design?\r\n\r\nGuess what order the hourly
    rate would be in with the highest on top?\r\n\r\nThe above order is about right.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-14 22:00:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> spend 8 hours on a few characters.\r\n\r\nOr <strong>one</strong> character.
    That in fact has been the top end of time-per-glyph\r\nsince the coldmetal days.
    And it's been my average on Maral and Mana-16.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-14 22:08:50'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "<strong>Quoting sii:</strong>\r\n<cite>\u2026was this online, or in a meet-up
    type environment? I\u2019d like to think it was in the basement of an old-school
    printers office in the industrial part of St Louis, where designers meet once
    a month to drink whisky, smoke smuggled-in Cubans etc., But I\u2019m likely wrong.</cite>\r\n\r\nOh,
    geez. I'm likely to get my butt kicked out of my little local group now, aren't
    I? \r\n\r\nTo answer the question: both. It was an on-line discussion in preparation
    for a meet-up which hasn't happened yet. But no dark smokey rooms -- just the
    coffee bar at Borders in posh West County. (Though whisky would be a great addition!)\r\n\r\nHm...
    I think there would be a lot of value in finding a 'guest expert' on the topic.
    Unfortunately, I don't know any local type designers, which is why I turned to
    Typophile."
  created: '2005-10-14 22:19:56'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "If free fonts are so great, why are they complaining at all?\r\n\r\nI look
    at it this way. A sheet of Letraset dry transfer lettering cost about $6.00 in
    1980. That's about $15.25 in 2005 dollars. A digital font typically costs about
    twice that. Let's compare value:\r\n\r\nUseful life\r\n\_\_\_Sheet of Letraset:
    Useless as soon as you run out of a character you need.\r\n\_\_\_Digital font:
    Indefinite as long there is operating system support; never run out\r\n\r\nFlexibility\r\n\_\_\_Sheet
    of Letraset: Limited to one size; can be enlarged or reduced with generational
    loss\r\n\_\_\_Digital font: Infinitely scalable with no loss of quality\r\n\r\nCharacter
    set\r\n\_\_\_Sheet of Letraset: 100 or so characters, depending on font; larger
    number means you run out of individual characters sooner\r\n\_\_\_Digital font:
    Over 200\r\n\r\nAvailability\r\n\_\_\_Sheet of Letraset: About 400 fonts in 1980;
    popular fonts were often on back order at dealers\r\n\_\_\_Digital font: Over
    30,000 commercial fonts in 2005; fonts can be downloaded and used minutes after
    purchase and are never out of stock\r\n\r\nEase of use\r\n\_\_\_Sheet of Letraset:
    Spacing and alignment depend on skill of user; slow process\r\n\_\_\_Digital font:
    Spacing and alignment are automatic; as fast as typing\r\n\r\nSpecial effects\r\n\_\_\_Sheet
    of Letraset: Dependent on mechanical manipulation or special photographic equipment\r\n\_\_\_Digital
    font: Unlimited digital effects and manipulation possible\r\n\r\nBack in 1980,
    designers happily paid for sheets of Letraset, even with its numerous practical
    limitations. We're talking cheap designers for the most part. If you had a budget,
    you sent out for type at a much higher price.\r\n\r\nFor about twice that price
    (taking into account inflation), digital type is many times more than twice the
    value. \r\n\r\nPerhaps it's not fair to compare digital fonts to Letraset sheets.
    What about fonts for typesetting machines in 1980? First, you need a typesetting
    machine, which was $5,000-$10,000 for a low-end model ($12,500-$25,000 in 2005
    dollars). A font for a low-end typesetting machine was roughly $75 (and you usually
    had to buy them four at a time because of the way the machines worked) which is
    about $190 in 2005 dollars.\r\n\r\nNo matter how you look at it, digital fonts
    are a better value than any previous format, even at twice the typical price.
    True, the development costs are lower, too, but it still takes considerable time
    and effort to create a good quality font. In any case, it's not the development
    costs that determine the price people are willing to pay.\r\n\r\nThe availability
    of free fonts is the only reason people are complaining about the price. If they
    can't tell the difference, what's the problem? They should just use the free ones.
    If they can tell the difference, then it should be obvioius why good fonts are
    not free."
  created: '2005-10-14 22:28:27'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "True story:\r\n\r\nI was asked to typeset a job for a major organization;
    not design it, just set it. I finish the 175 pages of text, using the freeware
    grunge typewriter font they've provided for heads and subs. The body is set in
    Times. \r\n\r\nAnd now, they say, we need it set in French. Ok, I say, but wait:
    there's no extended characters in this font. \"What can we do? The English is
    already set.\"\r\n\r\nA day is lost, then I edit the font, adding the accents
    needed to set French, and I bill them for the work.  \r\n\r\nIf they had begun
    with say, FF Trixie Plain, it would have cost them $40, and they would have something
    better than my hacked together accents.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-14 22:34:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Good thing it was only French.  If it had been CE, you would have had a much
    bigger job.\r\nPenny wise and pound foolish is the sad state we live in.\r\n \r\nGee,
    I can get a butcher to do my gall bladder surgury.  He charges by the pound.  Those
    damn surgeons charge WAY too much.  I'll bet I can even get a kid learning to
    be a butcher to cut me open for free? Maybe I will just hang out in East St Louis
    bars and some thug will just cut me open right then and there with no appointment
    needed and no forms to fill out?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-14 22:44:44'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Another way to look at it:\r\n\r\nIf font prices were too high, not enough
    people would be willing pay them and the commercial foundries would go out of
    business."
  created: '2005-10-14 23:21:51'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "There is no converting a designer who would quibble about the price of a
    font be it digital or metal. There is no need to rationalize about the many many
    hours and days that go into the fitting of a font, or into the kerning pairs of
    same.\r\n\r\nMy respose is that here is no longer anything in this world that
    is cheap that is also any good. There are cheap and free fonts out there for those
    who put no more value on a good tye design than they do a bad one; so the bad
    ones are there for the bottom feeders to use.\r\n\r\nThis whole \"how cheap can
    I get it?\" attitude has discouraged me to the point that I don't care if I ever
    design digital font again.\r\n\r\nIf this seems whiney: tough! I've had it with
    people who claim to appreciate type nearly to distraction but won't drop a few
    bucks to use it. I have had students approach me with packages of more than 1000
    fonts that they got for $29.95. They are invariably crappy work.\r\n\r\nAnd now
    I don't know if I can post this or not, but here goes . . . \r\n\r\nJim\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-10-14 23:41:28'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "Bonafide graphic designers should definitely be slapped around for even suggesting
    such a thing, but the student problem is an ongoing issue. They have not yet learned
    to tell the difference between fucking Times Roman and Galliard, let alone the
    subtleties in spacing and kerning. They can't even spot fake bolds or italics,
    and when I demonstrate the evils of squishing and squashing type they look at
    each other like \"I can't see the difference, can you see the difference?\". Jesus
    H. Christ! Explaining what you get from a \"good\" font is a hard sell, and believe
    me the \"why, in *my* day ...\" argument doesn't cut it with them. \r\n\r\nI send
    them to sites like this, and wherever useful discussions about type are taking
    place (and i will probably send them to this thread), and mostly they just think
    we're all fucking mad (when my teaching succeeds, they join the madness).\r\n\r\nTo
    be honest, in some ways perhaps the most compelling argument for budding, fashion-conscious
    designers might be that \"The more expensive a typeface is, the more exclusive
    it is. It's like Armani or Valentino.\" Shit. That, they would understand.\r\n\r\n[I
    see this is a clean, family-oriented forum, sans swearing. Jus' testing that out.]\r\n-marian"
  created: '2005-10-14 23:50:48'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "Not a Christian forum tho'. Interesting.\r\n-marian"
  created: '2005-10-14 23:53:31'
- author:
    name: Jason Alejandro
    picture: 110644
  body: "engelhardt,\r\n\r\nI go through this everyday as a design student. Having
    taken the oppurtunity to design my first face this year I understand the blood,
    sweat, and tears that are poured into a type design. Not only am I surrounded
    by students who think <i>I'm</i> the crazy one, because I pay for fonts that they
    pass around to each other, but also teachers that do the same thing in the professional
    world. I'm actually launching a \"Say NO to font piracy\" campaign at school."
  created: '2005-10-14 23:53:54'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "They would not be speculating how hard it is to make a font if they were
    not using poorly crafted freebies in the first place.\r\n\r\nHow much do these
    freelancers charge for their services?  How do their hourly rates average out?
    \ Now, how long would it take for them to create the fonts they are using?  It's
    going to be far more than any font licensing fee."
  created: '2005-10-14 23:56:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there is no longer anything in this world\r\n> that is cheap that is also
    any good.\r\n\r\nGood point, although I wouldn't say \"world\". Just outside \"civilization\"
    there's a real world where you can find good cheap stuff now and again. Like my
    favorite falafel joint (in 'Aaisha Bakkaar, Beirut) or the custom backgammon set
    woodcarvers in Yerevan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-14 23:56:33'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "There you go again, Hrant... always with the falafel and backgammon.\r\n\r\nBut
    that brings up a good point.  Even in within the font market, prices are different.
    \ I've found that Londoners tend to jack up their prices.  Minnesotan prices are
    perhaps more affordable.  (a generalization)  But cost of living does come into
    play, even in font design.\r\n\r\nHmmm... another topic altogether?  \"Global
    Economics and the Rising Costs of Digital Fonts\"?"
  created: '2005-10-15 00:04:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In fact I'm a believer in having different pricing depending on the <cite>customer</cite>.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-15 00:12:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i say if they want to use true "free fonts," let them. but file sharing is
    just wrong. how do you think they'd like it if <em>their</em> clients stiffed
    them for their design services?
  created: '2005-10-15 00:18:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"how do you think they\u2019d like it if their clients stiffed them for
    their design services?\"\r\n\r\nThe trouble is, that it is a lot harder to \"share\"
    a logo design.  After all, type is just a bunch of letters.  \r\nIt was  lot tougher
    to \"share\" in the hot metal days.  In those days you would at least get a hernia
    for your efforts :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-15 02:06:33'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I sense a shakeout in design. What we need though is a demand for good design.
    I suspect those that can't afford a font or sell one to a client for that matter
    won't be around long. Myself included. I have some lame clients and their image
    blows because they wouldn't have it any other way. I just try to transition to
    better clients and assume that those that can't see to take advantage of what
    I can do can't last asl long as me. Those clients get cheap or free type, I'm
    sorry to say. Theft is just that though, and designers do get ripped off as well.
  created: '2005-10-15 02:22:42'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: The shake out is in progress. Design is the new acting. Many more students
    than jobs. You want fries with that?
  created: '2005-10-15 02:30:05'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Do Lauren's fellow St Louis designers fall into this boat? By attending the
    meet-up aren't they trying to rise above this? They're seeking the knowledge,
    even if they're not yet true believers. Are they worth reaching out to? \r\n\r\nIs
    there not a font preacher in the area who can reach out to the unencoded? Can
    I get an amen?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-15 03:10:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>[I see this is a clean, family-oriented forum, sans swearing. Jus\u2019
    testing that out.]</em>\r\n\r\nWhat the fu\u0441k you talkin'bout?\r\n\r\nHomographic
    swearing: another reason to love Unicode. :)"
  created: '2005-10-15 05:35:23'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: "John -- hahah, I was actually thinking about doing the same thing... then
    I scroll down and see your post. ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-15 07:10:59'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "I'd steer clear of a tent revival, but I also promised myself to steer clear
    of intoxicated cussing fits on Typophile.  (It's embarrassing to wake up to the
    day after.)\r\n\r\nUntil the 'unencoded' are typographically smothered by their
    excessive font library or are finally enlightened by some mystical, personal encounter
    with good type design, I'd say leave them on their prodigal paths. We learn best
    by our mistakes. Lord knows we've all had to use some pathetic ones.  Made me
    want to design my own."
  created: '2005-10-15 07:32:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Just pick up the nearest bottle to hand & swing, Swing like you never swung
    before in your life. Then smile the smile of the just & the righteous. A bit too
    much Nick Cave I suppose...
  created: '2005-10-15 09:07:32'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>What is a current hourly rate for flipping burgers?\r\nWhat is a current
    hourly rate for typeface design</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry, friends, you are missing
    the point. Do you ever consider how long it took a musician to write a song? Or
    Picasso to paint a picture? If it was all based on hourly rates, all books, songs,
    photographs and certainly fonts would be free once the originator had his investment
    in time and materials back (plus marketing & distribution expenses). Those items
    would thus only cost the price of production like printing and CD-copying etc.
    \r\n\r\nOf course this is rubbish. Things are worth what they contribute. A song
    or a painting only \r\ncontribute happiness, culture, esthetic pleasure, but we\u2019re
    willing to pay for them. (Leaving aside speculation like the art business here)
    If a designer uses paper, he needs to buy it. Same for inks, pens and other materials.
    A font costs between 29 and 49 dollars, but you can use it over and over (thanks,
    Mark, for the Letraset comparison), and it generates wealth for the client and
    the designer. It makes a piece more desirable, more legible, more functional.
    If we didn\u2019t need more type, there wouldn\u2019t be any. And if clients don\u2019t
    want to have 49 dollars added to the bill, they\u2019re not clients, but leeches.\r\n\r\nThe
    only problem I see is the risk of buying a family for, say, 100 dollars and not
    getting to use it. For a small studio, that can quickly add a few hundred a months
    in speculative font expenses. So, if you\u2019re a bona fide designer and have
    a record of paying proper licenses and also getting you clients to pay for theirs
    (that\u2019s where the money is for type designers), talk to you favourite font
    supplier. They may give you an open CD with a lot of fonts on it plus a contract.
    That\u2019ll state that you agree to buy a license once any of these fonts ever
    get used in earnest, i.e. in a publication in whatever medium. If you honour the
    trust invested in you, you\u2019ll get to use thousands of fonts for you presentations,
    for your own experiments and research, but you only get to pay for them once you
    get paid. We all know that we only use the fonts we have on our hard drives, at
    least until we know what we want, typographically speaking. That\u2019s why some
    of us would even consider looking at freebies.\r\n\r\nAnd finally: my rule of
    thumb is 100 hours per weight. So an average family these days with 12 weights
    (some of which, like small caps, may be less work) would take you at least 800
    hours, i.e. 20 business weeks or 12 normal designer weeks. It takes a lot of 100
    dollar sales (of which designer normally get around 20% if they don\u2019t do
    their own distribution) to pay for that time, even at modest rates. And out of
    the 30,000 or so fonts I am just editing for the new FontBook, not even 5% ever
    pay their designers that investment back. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-15 12:15:14'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>The trouble is, that it is a lot harder to \u201Cshare\u201D a logo
    design</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd as Quark found out, it is usually spotted quickly."
  created: '2005-10-15 12:17:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Erik,\r\n\"not even 5% ever pay their designers that investment back.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    was exactly my point when I compared hourly rates of burger-flippers to Glyph-grinders.
    The title of the tread is \"The High Price of Type\" and the sub-question was
    \"what is so hard about designing it anyway\".\r\nThe \"Leeches\" you spoke of
    don't care any more about \"what they [typefaces] contribute\" than they do about
    \"hourly rates...\".  A vulture is a vulture, feeding on decay. \r\nThe sad truth
    is that most small, beginning design offices have to put up with all manners of
    clients to survive.  It is a rare designer who gets to pick and choose clients.
    \ I am glad to see that your suggestion about \"open disk\" will at least allow
    them to pick and choose type by merit rather than if they already own it.  This
    is a win-win situation for foundries as well as graphic design offices. The less-than-stellar
    clients may not recognize the value no matter how you phrase it but at least the
    designer can feel they did the best job they could with the design.\r\nBravo Eric,
    I hope other font houses will follow your lead on this.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-15 14:07:49'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: "I think a valid point is the fact that sometimes you buy a font and don't
    get to use it. During two projects I recently bought Bryant and Delicato and it
    turned out both didn't work for the respective jobs. Notbecause the clients disliked
    them but because once used in the real document, I didn't like the final look.
    It just didn't fit, it wasn't what I thought it\u2019d look like. So... While
    I figure that maybe I'll get to use them some day, it still was pretty frustrating,
    and again I found that you can't judge a font by looking at it online, be it PDF
    or even a typesetter-tool. The only way to judge it is to work with it on a job,
    print some stuff and SEE first-hand if it works in context. \r\n\r\nApart from
    that, I don't think fonts are too expensive. While the collector in me wants to
    have them all, to have maximum choice, and while as a small bureau it's indeed
    a factor that you cannot just buy a new typeface for some low-budget-jobs, no
    maztter how much you'd like to, I still almost never feel ripped off by most foundries.
    There are exceptions, such as TEFF, but all in all, I think there is a large collection
    of fonts that are available and at 200-400 \u20AC for a family don't feel overpriced
    at all. Especially if they're OTF. \r\n\r\nHD Schellnack"
  created: '2005-10-15 15:26:20'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "First of all -- <strong>thank you</strong> everyone for your insight! This
    has become a great discussion.\r\n\r\nSecondly -- I feel somewhat compelled to
    defend my fellow St Louis designers who sparked this conversation. I'd hate you
    to think we're all a bunch of uneducated, font-pirating, middle-American back-woods
    hacks. There are a lot of talented people in this group, which is all the more
    reason why this debate got under my skin.\r\n\r\nThat said... someone on the \"other
    side\" of the argument brought up this  point:\r\n\r\n<cite>If fonts were more
    affordable (in this case, it was implied that would mean just a few dollars per
    typeface/weight), they would sell to more people. Therefore, type designers would
    make more money by selling at a higher volume. This theory suggests that they
    are the ones taking money away from themselves by making their product too exclusive.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat
    do the industry insiders think of this theory?\r\n\r\nAlso, the question came
    up of why \"classic,\" \"public domain\" typefaces (like Garamond, Caslon, etc)
    are still charged at a premium price when the original designers are now long-dead.
    (Well... <em>I</em> know that <em>someone</em> had to digitize that font -- but
    for argument's sake, there's the question that was posed)."
  created: '2005-10-15 16:45:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The more volume argument has limitations.  There is a finite market for fonts.
    \ This is not a broad consumer market.  What would happen is the number of sales
    would double but the amount of money the font designer gets would drop to 20%
    of what they get now. My argument is that fonts are already very cheap and have
    come down a lot in recent years. The amount of piracy has increased though so
    there is no gain for the type designer.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-15 17:51:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Also, the question came up of why \u201Cclassic,\u201D \u201Cpublic domain\u201D
    typefaces (like Garamond, Caslon, etc) are still charged at a premium price when
    the original designers are now long-dead. \r\n\r\nStating the obvious. In a way
    doing a high-quality revival of a typeface where a lot of competition already
    exists is harder than doing an original design. You have to bring something new
    to the table. That might include going back to original source material and doing
    a truer version, or it might mean adding weights, styles that didn't exist originally,
    or it might mean adding bells and whistles that the competition doesn't have.
    Compare old Adobe Garamond v Adobe Garamond Premier Pro and on glyph count along
    I bet the new version is better value for money - and the OpenType features makes
    it much more powerful. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-15 18:07:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">In a way doing a high-quality revival of a typeface where a lot of competition
    already exists is harder than doing an original design.\r\n\r\nFull reply: \r\n\r\nI
    have to disagree with the philosophy you're expressing, which measures the value
    of design in quantitative terms, thereby supporting the price-carpers: If a font
    is going to be valued for the number of features it contains, and the user get
    similar high-quality features free with bundled InDesign/Mac/MS fonts, than any
    price is going to seem too expensive. \r\n\r\nIt is a mistake to value a restyling
    of a classic as much as an original design.\r\nCertainly, it can take as much
    work to do a revival as an original, but that begs the question of the value of
    the kind of work involved -- it suggests that original design is undervalued in
    relation to production work and revivals.  \r\n\r\nHow to overcome the perception
    that computer designed work is not worth much because it's mere technical grunt
    labor? Or stuff any kid could do with the right software? Not by apologetically
    rationalizing prices, explaining all the skilled technical effort involved, because
    you can always get that kind of labor cheaper, or diluted to nothing in a multi-national's
    commodity.  \r\n\r\nIf you must, charge a premium price for giving an old whore
    a facelift, with all the OpenType deelybobs, but also demand top dollar for a
    staggering new work of genius even if it's only available in good old Type 1.\r\n\r\nShort
    version; \r\n\r\nPay up, it's f****** brilliant.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-15 19:48:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nI really like the short version:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-15 21:51:09'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Nick, is your marketing strategy working?\r\n\r\nI just wonder if the outreach/education
    work people like SoTA, the TDC, the Type Club of Toronto, the Typographic Circle
    etc., do make their host cities (Toronto, London, NYC) better places to sell type
    - it seems as if you feel these efforts are a waste of time. "
  created: '2005-10-15 23:09:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The line that divides Whores from Ladies is\r\nnot age, but whether it's
    for Display or Text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-15 23:15:09'
- author:
    name: mantz
    picture: 109988
  body: "I am not sure if this point has already been raised, but maybe the issue
    isn't the cost of fonts, but that so many are available free packaged with software.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that people complain about the cost of fonts because they assume they
    are free, like Comic Sans, Times and Arial.\r\n\r\nComic Sans, Times and Arial
    are NOT free, but because they are bundeled in with the cost of the software,
    that is the impression designers (and lay man) have.\r\n\r\nBut this attitude
    of not wanting to pay for fonts is typical of designers (especially the small,
    freelance types, of which I am one). They also don't like to pay for photo and
    illustration rights, nor software. If computers were clonable, you can bet freelance
    designers would be copying them too!\r\n\r\nWhy? Becasue it is terribly hard to
    make money as a small, freelance designer.\r\n\r\nBut what these individuals don't
    think about, is what this attitude is doing to the design industry! By not supporting
    the rest of the industry, these desigers will some day find themselves all alone,
    trying to defend the cost of design in front of their client, when the client
    is asking why his secretary can't do the same job with Office and some free MS
    Fonts...\r\n\r\nIn a way, the cost of fonts helps give a designer a reason to
    charge a real price for his work. And the designers appreciation of the finer
    points of a well-designed font is what makes him worth the money."
  created: '2005-10-15 23:28:38'
- author:
    name: mantz
    picture: 109988
  body: "I noticed there was a comment on sometimes buying fonts and not using them
    in the end.\r\n\r\nI have had this frustrstaing exepriece on occasion (most recently
    with H&FJ's Gotham, imagine!). It happens, but I have never regreted it.\r\n\r\nWe
    have gotten into the habit of adding about 150$ to our price estimates for buying
    a font, even if we won't necessarily use it for the project. That way, we are
    able to exapnd our font library without feeling that we are cutting into our overhead,
    and the more contracts we have, the more fonts we can buy! (We don't indicate
    that we will be buying a font to the client, it is an internal thing, if you will)"
  created: '2005-10-15 23:37:57'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>ut this attitude of not wanting to pay for fonts is typical of designers...</em>\r\n\r\nThen
    let them draw their own letterforms, do their own spacing and kerning, take their
    own photos, draw their own illustrations and if they want to keep saving, they
    should build their own computers and write their own sofware while their at it!
    If they had to do these things, do you think they'd bitch about having to pay
    $39 for a font???"
  created: '2005-10-16 00:01:31'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>If fonts were more affordable (in this case, it was implied that would
    mean just a few dollars per typeface/weight), they would sell to more people</cite>\r\n\r\nPeople
    who use this argument cannot possible make a living as designers themselves. Do
    they only charge whatever they need by dividing your living expenses into the
    hours you can work? And forget about new equipment, software, rent, the times
    you do not work? Designers who sell through publishers get 20% from the retail
    price, the rest is spent on marketing (who do you think pays for websites, booklets,
    support, OT conversions etc?), production, retail discounts (that\u2019s usually
    50%),  and \u2013 mainly \u2013 those fonts that never sell or hardly. Like everywhere
    else, 80% of revenue comes from 20% of the products, but everybody wants to be
    able to choose from thousands of them.\r\n\r\nAnd why should revival fonts be
    any cheaper than new ones? Are books by Shakespeare any cheaper than those by
    contemporary authors? Book publishers also make their money with a few bestsellers
    which support all the unknown names. Would we want to do without these? And only
    have Helvetica, Garamond, Bodoni and a few others? Those could be cheap, because
    there is no license to pay and no advertising to make them known. The same designers
    who complain about 29 dollars for a font would be the first ones to complain about
    lack of choice. I knew a system like that once: it was across the Wall here in
    Berlin and called East Germany. As a designer, you were told what to design and
    when, what typefaces to use, what paper to print on and how much you could charge.
    And if the state didn\u2019t think you fitted in as a designer, they would send
    you into a factory. For those who liked a non-risk life, this was great. The others
    ran away into the West or took to the streets until the Wall came down.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-16 00:24:54'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "One thing that does bother me though (aside from not knowing John's fancy
    tricks for swearing online), is the aspect of not being able to test-drive before
    buying a font.\r\n\r\nYes, most websites have some sort of preview/tester/engine
    thingy, but all the ones i have seen will test only a few words at a large-ish
    size. Great if you're thinking of using it for display but most of the time I'm
    buying for text usage, and I can't tell you the number of times I've bought a
    font thinking it was exactly what I was looking for, only to find that set as
    text, it's not giving the flavour I had in mind. Buying fonts you never use really
    is upsetting. That, I have to admit, is a major deterrent for me buying fonts.
    (Do I resort to piracy? No, I just use the same ones over and over and over.)\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2005-10-16 06:06:12'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Design is the new acting. Many more students than jobs. You want fries
    with that?</em>\r\nThat is my reality, and many other people I know."
  created: '2005-10-16 07:55:10'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>People who use this argument cannot possible make a living as designers
    themselves. Do they only charge whatever they need by dividing your living expenses
    into the hours you can work?</em>\r\n\r\nErik, I think all that was being said
    is that this method could sell more product. To me its like high end vs. broad
    consumer merchandising. Higher price points move <em>less</em> product. Lower
    price points move <em>more</em> product. Both have the potential to make the same
    profit. I see that as a valid argument. To me its like Gucci vs. Levi's Jeans.
    Both make a good amount of money. Levi's makes money by selling more pairs of
    jeans, Gucci makes money selling fewer pairs of higher priced jeans.\r\n\r\nI
    think a huge problem here is educating the public to understand just what typography
    is and what is involved in making it. In a nutshell this is what seems to be what
    we're all debating:\r\n\r\nHow do we prove or demonstrate the VALUE of type? Until
    this question is answered the debate will never end. Getting the consumer to understand
    the VALUE of type is where I think the answer is. "
  created: '2005-10-16 08:31:41'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite> Buying fonts you never use really is upsetting. </cite>\r\n\r\nMay
    I remind you of what I wrote a day ago:\r\n\r\n...if you\u2019re a bona fide designer
    and have a record of paying proper licenses and also getting you clients to pay
    for theirs (that\u2019s where the money is for type designers), talk to you favourite
    font supplier. They may give you an open CD with a lot of fonts on it plus a contract.
    That\u2019ll state that you agree to buy a license once any of these fonts ever
    get used in earnest, i.e. in a publication in whatever medium. If you honour the
    trust invested in you, you\u2019ll get to use thousands of fonts for you presentations,
    for your own experiments and research, but you only get to pay for them once you
    get paid....\r\n\r\nLobby your font reseller, publisher, online distributor."
  created: '2005-10-16 10:43:48'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>To me its like Gucci vs. Levi\u2019s Jeans</cite>\r\n\r\nThat is a
    totally wrong comparison. While it\u2019s true that certain goods carry a premium
    while not necessarily being <em>better</em> than others, some brands do deliver
    better value. A Mercedes Benz will still keep its value better than a Ford, but
    most of the perceived value is in design and \u2013 of course \u2013 prestige.
    But a Mercedes Benz will also get you from A to B reliably. Guccy, however, hardly
    delivers on the practical scale, it is <em>all</em> about prestige \u2013 what
    the neighbours think. I cannot think of any typefaces that one would buy for prestige
    only. But the functional issues <em>are</em> important, very much like the zippers
    on Levis jeans would not break easily. With type, you do pay for brand value,
    because you know that fonts from certain foundries will be technically sound and
    come from legal sources. "
  created: '2005-10-16 10:56:22'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Erik has it right on both of these points. Develop a relationship with your
    local font maker, you'd be surprised what can be done!
  created: '2005-10-16 14:02:12'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: Indeed. We licensed <a href="http://www.terminaldesign.com/index_rawlinson.php">Rawlinson</a>
    from Terminal Design because James and I know each other, and we were able to
    talk about various requests we had. Until I met him (and Gary Munch and others
    at the TDC), font licensing was always very impersonal.
  created: '2005-10-16 15:38:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Nick, is your marketing strategy working?\r\n\r\nThe motivation for outreach
    is not primarily self-interest. There's no substitute for a good corporate identity,
    an aggressive marketing and PR program, ongoing product development and frequent
    new releases, an up-to-date web site with the latest functionality and frequent
    new material, etc, etc. I must confess I'm not checking all those boxes, and if
    I spent less time online, writing, teaching, and organizing, and more time on
    the basics of my business, I'm sure I'd do even better. \r\n\r\nBut that's incidental.
    The point here is that the \"never mind the quality feel the width\" rationalization
    for the price of type is self-defeating for the independent foundry. It works
    for the big guys, because it's in their interests to commoditize font design as
    a mass  market \"giveaway\", amortizing production costs against huge volumes.\r\n\r\nBut
    when the sales for a typeface are counted in dozens, which is, I would hazard,
    a typical average for independent foundries, any user who licenses a hot new indie
    doozy is getting a pretty damn exclusive product, so price shouldn't be an issue,
    not just because it's f****** brilliant, but because they will also be able to
    cock a snoot at their bundled-font-stricken peers and say, with apologies for
    unprofessional behavior, (short version):\r\n\r\n\"Stuff your H********, losers!\"\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-16 17:56:37'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Hmmm, okay so let's try this again with another example.\r\n\r\n<em> A Mercedes
    Benz will still keep its value better than a Ford, but most of the perceived value
    is in design and \u2013 of course \u2013 prestige.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is a great
    example and I'll elaborate on that. A Mercedes is MUCH more expensive than a Ford.
    Now, all designers do not have the same standard of living. Some designers can
    afford a Mercedes and others can afford to drive a Ford. The car industry recognizes
    the need to address economic status. The point is EVERY graphic designer HAS to
    use fonts but every car consumer does not have to use a Mercedes Benz. There are
    rich designers, and struggling designers. I don't see why that's not a valid concern.
    It doesn't seem fair to force all designers to buy a Mercedes when some are eating
    Ramen noodles. As long as there are struggling freelance designers around, a type
    foundry is never going to win an argument with that comparison. My reality is
    as a struggling designer and a recent design grad I'm usually the person who has
    to explain \"type ethics\" to my peers.  \r\n\r\nAnother way to approach this
    is if we treat type as software, than what is the difference between say Adobe
    Creative Suite and a type family? Adobe still sells all of the programs individually
    and as a bundle. Why can't type be the same way?\r\n\r\nThe font package Erik
    suggested previously is something I think more foundries should take advantage
    of, that is definitely a smart business move. Making a foundry appear approachable
    is definitely an attribute.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-16 20:37:34'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Terry, there are cheaper cars and more expensive cars\u2014but there are
    no free cars (and if you find some, please drop me a line\u2026 ;-D ). However,
    fonts are another story\u2026 There are free fonts that are of good quality. There
    are also fonts that cost just $21, and some that cost thousands.\r\n\r\nOne thing
    that many designers are saying here that I'd like to reiterate is that graphic
    designers should not always be covering licensing costs on their own; they should
    be adding these into client billing. Of course, this isn't going to work for a
    $60 project, but not every project is that small, even for low-budget freelancers.
    Graphic design software is much more expensive to license than fonts (even if
    you get it all at student rates\u2014which are available from many foundries,
    too, BTW), but most designers who want to stay away from illegal software manage
    to find room in their budgets for these.\r\n\r\nAlso, I'd like to \"third\" Erik
    and James' excellent suggestion of building relationships with type foundries.
    Every type foundry knows what is going on in the graphic design industry (the
    foundries that didn't understand how design works have gone bankrupt\u2026). While
    not every foundry is as flexible with designers as I'd desire, enough of them
    are that it shouldn't present any real problems for graphic designers who want
    to pay for all the fonts they end of using in client work (see Erik's thread above).
    Every foundry is, after all, just a phone call or e-mail away, and most businesses
    do tend to want to hear from their customers. What have you got to loose?"
  created: '2005-10-16 22:14:35'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>>Making a foundry appear approachable is definitely an attribute.</em>\r\n\r\nTerry,
    I'd like to ask you about this idea of yours, too. What would you recommend that
    foundries do? (Aside from coming online, attending conferences, building contacts,
    distribution free material, etc, all of which is a good start, but not enough\u2026)"
  created: '2005-10-16 22:16:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Making a foundry appear approachable\r\n\r\nApproachable yes, but as Erik
    said, if you're a type buyer and you'd like to get special treatment such as font
    samples for use in assessment and comps, you need a record of paying for licensing.
    That seems to me like a reasonable working relationship/deal: license some fonts
    from a foundry and they'll be happy to give you some more to try out.\r\n\r\nI'm
    happy to do that, but if someone I don't know emails me out of the blue and asks
    me to set a few trade names for them in one of my typefaces and send them a PDF
    (it happpened a couple of days ago), I will politely direct them to Veer's \"Flont\".
    But if they were a past customer, I'd send them the font."
  created: '2005-10-16 22:37:22'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Terry, there are cheaper cars and more expensive cars\u2014but there
    are no free cars </em>\r\n\r\nI agree. I'm certainly not arguing that type doesn't
    have value. I'm arguing that people don't understand what that value is when they
    perceive type to already be free. I have no problem buying fonts. However, I would
    like to have the option to buy TWO WEIGHTS of a typeface <em>as needed</em> because
    I cannot afford to buy an entire family for $200-$500. I don't think that's an
    unreasonable request. If that need isn't addressed, many people will continue
    to feel put off by type foundries.\r\n\r\n<em>Terry, I\u2019d like to ask you
    about this idea of yours, too. What would you recommend that foundries do?</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    argument always happens amongst type designers and graphic designers. One thing
    that I think might eleviate some of the tension is to embrace both aspects of
    design. Type design IS graphic design. The fact that AIGA wasn't involved in TypeCon
    shows me the turf wars that exist bewteen the two camps. \r\n\r\nI think type
    foundries should position themselves as \"SOFTWARE distributors\". Understanding
    type as concrete and tangible is something that will go a long way towards educating
    the consumer. We can't put a digital file transfer in our hands, but we can put
    a box or a book there."
  created: '2005-10-17 00:31:25'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "<cite>I think type foundries should position themselves as \u201CSOFTWARE
    distributors\u201D. Understanding type as concrete and tangible is something that
    will go a long way towards educating the consumer. We can\u2019t put a digital
    file transfer in our hands, but we can put a box or a book there.</cite>\r\n\r\nTerry,
    this is what (digital) type foundries are required to do, particularly in the
    States.  US copyright laws have not evolved to cover the actual artwork of a typeface
    design.  The only thing that is legally protected is the \"font software\" and
    only in terms of the software's use.  Any legally drafted EULA begins with this
    premise.\r\n\r\nBut software is not a tangible thing to fileswappers who do not
    comprehend how it is made or who makes it.  I think the important thing to remember
    in this argument is the personal connection that everyone is coming around to
    discussing.\r\n\r\n<em>Type designers</em> need to position <em>themselves</em>
    as the source of the artwork contained in the font software. They need to do this
    between themselves and their distributors as well as with the end users. I would
    love nothing more than to get up on my soapbox to condemn \"The Machine\" for
    sucking all the humanity out of the distribution process, but I see a massive
    shift already in progress coming from the grassroots.\r\n\r\nNow, there is a direct
    correlation between Lauren's (engelhardt) uphill battle among her backwards-somersaulting
    peers and her awareness and willingness to hit typophile.com for our side of the
    situation.  She knows that we are real people and she can perhaps put the names
    to the faces (Yes, an obligatory type pun is in there somewhere.) If the rest
    of her group were aware of this very forum and this discussion and our passion
    and our contributions to their designer resources, they might begin to understand
    the value of what we provide.  After that, they might even pay money for it!\r\n\r\nAnd
    yes, it <em>is</em> about VALUE.  Not of the software or the typeface or the OTF
    conveniences or the labor hours, but the value of the type designer's ability
    and decision to share all these things."
  created: '2005-10-17 07:11:30'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "And you know what else?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typeright.org\r\n\r\nIt should
    have been on page one of this thread... silly of us all to forget."
  created: '2005-10-17 09:16:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Silas,\r\nI didn't know about \"Typeright\" before.  Thanks for the link.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    I quite enjoyed your \"obligatory\" pun :-)"
  created: '2005-10-17 13:03:06'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: You might ask these people how much A MONTH they pay for a cell phone, and
    how much of LASTING VALUE they get for that money.
  created: '2005-10-17 16:36:52'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Too many analogies already in this thread. I can't put cell phones into the
    mix.\r\n\r\nDesigners just have to budget. We would all like to have every font
    at our disposal, but if we want good type available we have to act as the sales
    force for the type community, and police ourselves at the same time.\r\n\r\nWe
    are all in this together."
  created: '2005-10-17 17:41:58'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "<strong>Quoting Silas:</strong>\r\n<cite>If the rest of her group were aware
    of this very forum and this discussion and our passion and our contributions to
    their designer resources, they might begin to understand the value of what we
    provide. After that, they might even pay money for it!</cite>\r\n\r\nEh, I doubt
    it. I've done my best to be an advocate for the cause and now I'm just getting
    mocked for being a youthful idealist. I am so frustrated that I'm about ready
    to throw my hands up and walk away. (Honestly, why would I want to be part of
    a group that apparently doesn't understand, respect and value their own industry?)\r\n\r\nThese
    designers seemingly refuse to see the correlation between their own 'starving
    artist' status as freelancers and the similar plight of type designers. They just
    keep resorting to the argument that their clients won't pay up for something they
    (the clients) fail to see as a valued commodity (type). And the designers don't
    have enough cash to buy the fonts themselves, so work-arounds (system fonts, freebie
    sites and occasionally pirated fonts) are their solution.\r\n\r\nFor those curious,
    <a href=\"http://onmysleeve.org/type/fontprices.html\" target=\"_blank\">here
    is our discussion</a>, which I've mirrored in a different location and scrubbed
    of real identities to protect those involved. But I felt it was appropriate to
    show what I'm up against here though I didn't want to 'out' these designers unfairly.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-17 17:53:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "TypeRight is the Terry Schiavo of the font world.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-17 17:58:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Hrant.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-17 18:27:11'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> For those curious, here is our discussion....\r\n\r\nLet's see what Designer
    1 said: \r\n\r\n\r\n\"Designer 1\r\nHow much does it cost to make a font?\r\nMany
    standby fonts are in the public domain, Garamond, Caslon, Berthold, etc. were
    made hundreds of years ago. It's 100% legal to scan them into a computer, open
    them in Fontographer, and create a new version of them.\r\nI've dabbled with font
    creation, but not with adding kerning hints, though it doesn't seem like it would
    be excessively hard.\r\nThe question becomes, if Caslon, for instance, only took
    20 hours to turn into a new, good quality font, you wouldn't need to charge much
    to make some decent money from it. I'd think you could make a decent business
    out of just making new versions of public domain fonts, and selling them for much
    less than Adobe.\r\n(researching it, Caslon does sell for as low as $20 or so
    for an individual font, though you'd need to buy several of them to really use
    it)\r\nIf this is the case, why hasn't someone done it, and/or why are the big
    type houses still charging so much?\"\r\n\r\n\r\nwhat I really like:\r\n1. kerning
    hints\r\n2. if Caslon, for instance, only took 20 hours to turn into a new, good
    quality font\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n> These designers.....\r\n\r\nSorry. They are not
    designers. To design  with  freebie  & pirated fonts?  Too sad. \r\n\r\nBTW, I'd
    love to see samples \u2014 the great design with freebie fonts..... and Designer
    1 - please post your font...."
  created: '2005-10-17 18:54:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">the correlation between their own \u2018starving artist\u2019 status as
    freelancers and the similar plight of type designers.\r\n\r\nA lack of solidarity.\r\nDesigners
    do get together in organizations like AIGA, RGD, but not a majority.\r\nDoes AIGA
    have specific references to software piracy in its ethics regulation?"
  created: '2005-10-17 19:18:53'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Lauren, here are some facts that may help put things into perspective for
    your friends:\r\n\r\nYes, there are some people who make a living making fonts,
    but nobody's getting rich off it. For most people who do it, it does not pay enough
    to quit their day job. Most font designers do something else to pay the bills.
    When you steal fonts, quite often you are stealing from people who are unable
    to make a living at it. This is actually the main reason why it is difficult to
    make a living making fonts.\r\n\r\nMost free fonts are made by amateurs and dabblers.
    The reason they give them away is because they know the fonts are not professional
    quality and have not expended much effort on them. They correctly believe that
    no one would pay good money for them. Plus, by giving the fonts away, they feel
    they are off the hook if the fonts don't work properly. If you give it away, you
    don't have to take responsibility.\r\n\r\nIt is possible to make a mediocre font
    in 20 hours, but not a good quality one, even from an existing design. And it
    takes a considerable amount of experience even to make a mediocre font in such
    a short time. (Except maybe a grunge font.)\r\n\r\nA popular font might sell 500
    licenses in a year. According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, there are over
    200,000 graphic designers in the U.S. \r\n\r\nThe fact is, since the advent of
    digital type, the font business relies purely on the good will and trustworthiness
    of people who buy fonts. A whole industry based on the honor system, if you like.
    It's amazing--and reassuring--that anyone can make money at it at all."
  created: '2005-10-17 19:56:06'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "<strong>Quoting Nick Shinn:</strong>\r\n<cite>A lack of solidarity.\r\nDesigners
    do get together in organizations like AIGA, RGD, but not a majority.\r\nDoes AIGA
    have specific references to software piracy in its ethics regulation?</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    agree whole-heartedly.\r\n\r\nAnd yes, AIGA addresses the ethics issue, specifically
    in regard to font usage in their <a href=\"http://www.aiga.org/content.cfm?ContentID=681\">Design
    Business and Ethics Series</a>. \r\n\r\nBut do I even need to point out that designers
    who quibble over the price of a font are certainly not going to fork over the
    high membership fees to the AIGA?"
  created: '2005-10-17 20:15:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The concept of big bucks type houses is long dead.  It is easy to assume
    that there are type czars out there making a fortune from remakes of classic fonts.
    Type designers only get 20% of the sale anyway.  Yes, Claude and William are long
    dead but they didn't even dream of the functionality of the OTF pro fonts available
    today.  Most classic fonts have very good revivals bundled with design software.
    \ The cost for the fonts is marked up in to the cost of the software suite.  It
    SEEMS free but it isn't. There is no wealthy type designers who have made their
    money from their type designs. If they have money, it came from something or someone
    else. Type designers make LESS money as a group that graphic designers.  Sure,
    there are a few stars out there but they are not even close to Fortune 500 stuff.
    Type designers are not \"The Man\", not some abstract wealthy gluttonous behemoth
    that can be pointed to as the enemy. Anyone who undertakes a career in type design
    does not do it for the money.  If that were the reason, there wouldn't have been
    a new type designer in generations.\r\nTo those who think there clients don't
    care what the fonts look like, use the free stuff every time but don't steal someone's
    work and then give it away.\r\nTo those who think they can make a functional copy
    of Caslon or Garamond by scanning and tracing in 20 hours, be my guest--and by
    all means use it in all your work.  You and your clients deserve each-other. In
    20 hours, you will have a piece of crap.\r\nIf you don't value type and your clients
    don't value type, then why do you steal it? People steal it because they know
    it has value. There are places on this earth where people commit murder without
    retribution. Does that mean those lives have no value? Does that mean murder is
    not a crime? Does that mean if we placed less value on life that there would be
    fewer murders?\r\nStealing is stealing. Don't pretend it is OK just because you
    don't get caught.\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-17 20:57:31'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: The lack of preceived value of type is ignorance. Ingnorance isn't bad if
    you know you are ignorant. I'm a learning bird watcher and I now know what a Black
    Throated Blue Warbler is. I was ignorant to what it looked like and what it acted
    like, but I was willing to learn. I think too many people with computers don't
    have a clue what type is or that it was even designed. I think the type community
    has a large educational job in front of them to educate not just the designers
    and ad agency types, but John Q. Public as well. It will not happen by wishing
    or law suits. You ladies and gentlemen have to get your articles published not
    only in the New York Times but also in the New York Post (a Murdock paper).
  created: '2005-10-17 23:51:35'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Dan has hit it. It's all about ignorance. If graphic designers have such
    disregard for the value of type, what kind of consideration can we expect from
    Joe Public? If graphic designers think all the type designers are dead and type
    is all pirated anyway, then there's a huge disconnect between how type gets made
    and how people understand type. How to inform this new population? Definitely
    look for popular venues for publicity and journalism. But can we agree on the
    message?\r\n\r\nType design is highly skilled, laborious, creative, specialized
    work that has never earned the kind of returns that other careers do. Type design
    requires a unique temperament, highly trained visual acuity, historical awareness,
    and is invisible to the general public. No type designer, living or dead, built
    any kind of wealth simply designing type for retail sale. The type designers who
    have a modicum of \"fame\" are also not wealthy. Inferring they are, from any
    popularity they have is ignorance as well. The people that can sustain careers
    in type do so with custom work that pays off all at once. This is not an opinion,
    perspective, delusion, or personal position, it's reality. I'm in the type industry
    and I know. \r\n\r\nIt's pointless to argue the real value of type in dollars,
    the point is nobody arguing even understands where type comes from.We can go in
    circles all year with this. Graphic designers obviously need some frame of reference
    for how good type comes into existence. I've wished for a long time for a high-profile
    documentary about the making of a typeface, and preferably one with a respectful
    or interested tone. The New York Times is barely a step above the Onion in its
    pervasive disdain for type. The attitude influences the readership and nobody
    learns anything. Sound bytes are useless if we want the general public to understand
    what goes into making high-quality type. The entire process needs to be explained
    and illustrated. Documentarians?.... Great new subject here!"
  created: '2005-10-18 03:08:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">The entire process needs to be explained and illustrated. \r\n\r\nThe best
    place to do that is in design school. Every design school should have type design
    as part of the curriculum -- it's a great way of providing insight into typography,
    which is still the core of the profession. In the educational context, designing
    a typeface is also a \"pure research\" project (whereas most design projects are
    simulations of real world practice), so it gives breadth to a design education."
  created: '2005-10-18 06:43:40'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Every design school should have type design as part of the curriculum</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is unfortunately not a universal view among graphic design professors. In fact,
    many of them here in Germany see such an assignment as an unnecessary relic from
    the HfG Ulm days (which was when many of them were in design school). Some of
    them even see calls for type design in the curriculum as being self-serving attempts
    by type designers looking for [more] work."
  created: '2005-10-18 09:29:11'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "<cite>The concept of big bucks type houses is long dead. It is easy to assume
    that there are type czars out there making a fortune from remakes of classic fonts.
    Type designers only get 20% of the sale anyway.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs a occasional
    purchaser I have to say I am surprised at such a low percentage. Isn't this a
    major part of the problem?"
  created: '2005-10-18 11:32:13'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>Lauren,\r\nI think You should get new and better friends.</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 12:02:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"As a occasional purchaser I have to say I am surprised at such a low percentage.
    Isn\u2019t this a major part of the problem?\"\r\n\r\nElliot,\r\nRead Eric's comments
    further up in this thread where he explains the costs foundries have in the process.
    Everyone has costs and wants to make a living too. \r\n\r\nThere are a few fonts
    which sell well and others that don't.  Foundries use their best judgment to sell
    what they think has a market but they are not always right and have to eat the
    cost of the initial release.  Sometimes, a font may not become popular until years
    later when it is \"discovered\" by some hot new design firm. \r\n\r\nThe point
    is that fonts are really cheap but no one believes it.  Fonts have value but few
    are willing to pay for it. Thieves steal fonts and rationalize their actions by
    saying \"everyone does it.\"\r\n\r\nI don't think you have to teach a course in
    type design at every design school.  It should be enough to have a guest lecturer
    come once a year and give a presentation to the students.  I don't mean where
    someone comes in and just shows their finished work but where they actually present
    the process.  For a start, it might be nice to have a book written which might
    serve as a reference.  I know there are plenty of books on type out there but
    I don't know of any which would work for this purpose.  It may best work with
    a collection of type designers each doing a chapter.\r\n\r\nI can't imagine major
    media printing articles on type design. There would not be enough perceived interest
    from their audience.\r\nGraphic Designers are the gate keepers to type.  We have
    to educate them and keep a dialogue going with them.  ( I guess that is why I
    talk to myself--I am both us and them.)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-18 13:57:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">calls for type design in the curriculum as being self-serving attempts by
    type designers looking for [more] work.\r\n\r\nActually, my master plan is to
    influence generations of students who have studied under me to \"buy into\" my
    theories of typography, and, years later, when they graduate and move into positions
    where they can influence type purchasing decisions, they will of course choose
    Shinn-o-fonts*, and I will be a wealthy retiree.\r\n\r\n*Unless they are running
    their own type foundries."
  created: '2005-10-18 16:11:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Some of them even see calls for type design in the curriculum as being
    \r\n> self-serving attempts by type designers looking for [more] work.\r\n\r\nAs
    opposed to their own selfless pursuits of course. Designing packaging for electronic
    gimmicks, and certainly magazine ads for SUVs does after all save lives.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 16:27:16'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I'm teaching an undergraduate course in Type Design at Parsons. Last semester
    was the first offering and I'm halfway through the second semester. In a 15 week
    semester a student is required to create a complete latin script font with a fairly
    extensive diacritical component that includes at least one OpenType feature. All
    of the students regardless of what their final font actually looks like come away
    with a very deep appreciation of the work type designers do. \r\n\r\nAt the beginning
    of the semester I told them that they had absolutely no idea how much work they
    were going to have to do in order to get the result I wanted. At first they didn't
    believe me, but as the mid-term came around and they saw how little they had accomplished
    in those first seven weeks, the panic was exquisite.\r\n\r\nEvery one finished
    (with a week or two extension) and some of the stuff is actually not bad. A few
    of them are polishing their designs up for some sort of commercial release.\r\n\r\nI
    have told my chairman that I think the course should be a requirement. He agrees,
    but current limitations to the schedule make it something for the future."
  created: '2005-10-18 20:17:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> In a 15 week semester a student is required to create a complete\r\n> latin
    script font with a fairly extensive diacritical component\r\n> that includes at
    least one OpenType feature.\r\n\r\nWow.\r\n\r\n1) How many hours per week is the
    class?\r\n2) How much time are they expected to spend outside of class, and how
    much do you think they actually do?\r\n3) What pre-requisites to get in?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 20:43:25'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Does "latin script" mean a script design, or just any font that uses Latin
    characters? Either way, sounds really great!
  created: '2005-10-18 20:49:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sounds like a great course James. I wish there had been something like that
    available in the Dark Ages when I went to design school.  How much intrest is
    showng in your class? You have not had enough time for the \"word-of-mouth\" effect
    but I wonder if you will generate a broad base of interested students.  [Maybe
    that \"Font in 20 hours\" guy will take your course and show you how it is done:-)]\r\n\r\nGood
    work James! Now if we can get someone like you at every design school?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-18 20:56:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Or a script font with Latin serifs? Ouch.  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 20:56:59'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I know designers who went to school in the seventies who, as part of the graphic
    design curriculum, had to draw a typeface design. That was the case with the first
    "font" I designed.
  created: '2005-10-18 21:13:41'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: 'The class meets 2:40 once a week. I expect they work at least 8-10 hours
    a week outside of class at a minimum. You can tell the ones that do and the ones
    that don''t. I told them it should be a six credt course, but they only get 3.
    Latin script means latin script as opposed to cyrillic or arabic scripts. It is
    strongly recommended that they have taken Digital Lettering which is a sophomore
    elective that both Peter Bain and I teach, but it is not a pre-requisite. The
    ones that have taken the Digital Lettering do better than those who do not. The
    class size is limited to 15. Last semester I had 10, this semester there are 14. '
  created: '2005-10-18 21:29:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'There is education and education, classroom work for students is one thing,
    but educating both designers, ad agencies and John Q. Public is another. James
    get your articles about your type designs in papers that aren''t main stream.
    Maybe there should be an online site with articles written about how the type
    designs were created that is connected to a home page site like AOL. 15 educated
    people don''t stop type licencing abuse. This can''t be approached as "one at
    a time" it has to be more like what the national political parties do. Make it
    a nation/worldwide  campaign. '
  created: '2005-10-18 22:22:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mark,\r\nI went to design school in the 60's.  We developed \"alphabets\"
    using paint and brush. I can't say it was a complete typeface.  In those days,
    that would have been well over the 20-hour mark :-) We also did caligraphy and
    carved Roman capitals into hardened clay.  We even had a hot metal type shop put
    together by Jack Staufagher so typography was covered at least in the old-school
    way.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-18 22:28:40'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "<cite>TypeRight is the Terry Schiavo of the font world.</cite>\r\n\r\nIs
    that cynicism, Hrant?"
  created: '2005-10-18 23:00:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cynicism? No, it's pretty factual.\r\n1) Not a peep has come out of them
    since about 1999.\r\n2) One of their founding members has gone into hiding, owing
    people refunds for a magazine that never materialized.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-18 23:40:48'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"Make it a nation/worldwide campaign\"\r\n\r\nGot some connections at Time/Warner
    who want to blow the lid off this puppy?  \r\n\r\nI think it's very useful for
    design schools to offer this kind of class. James is on the front lines of keeping
    this awareness from becoming completely insular, invisible and irrelevant to the
    general public. Please don't belittle that work. If every design school required
    a type design class, it would have several effects including: All those design
    grads would come away with a personal experience of how valuable type is, and
    each of them would have had the opportunity to be exposed to something very obscure,
    which they might go on to explore more deeply. All those people are then equipped
    to negotiate fair compensation for type products, and are more likely to license
    them legally. Their experience can influence others in their studios. If that
    happens each year from 2005 on, we'll be on our way to some more general awareness.
    \r\n\r\nI don't say we shouldn't have mass media paying attention to type; see
    my previous post. But everyone is in a different position to have an influence.
    I also think there's a limit to the completeness of any message delivered to the
    average reader through general media. How can we be sure the complete message
    will make it through the editorial mill? Would an editor at a major magazine be
    willing to devote pages and pages to digital typefounding if Paris Hilton had
    just thrown a candy wrapper away? Cut that boring type story and put Paris on
    Page 1! Get me photos! \r\n\r\nI think we've all joked about reality type shows,
    but joking aside, is there a channel or network that might be interested in a
    43-minute doc about the process of making a typeface? Is there a documentary filmmaker
    who thinks it's worth pursuing? Imagine a camera crew following Christian Schwartz
    around to press checks and design meetings, and watching laser proofs come out.
    Exciting stuff! Matthew Carter has compared it to watching a refrigerator make
    ice. Could it be made watchable? "
  created: '2005-10-19 00:23:09'
- author:
    name: mantz
    picture: 109988
  body: "<cite>\r\nIf you don\u2019t value type and your clients don\u2019t value
    type, then why do you steal it? People steal it because they know it has value.
    \r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nI just wanted to make sure that this comment from Chris didn't
    get lost in the shuffle. It pretty much says it to me."
  created: '2005-10-19 02:26:58'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "dezcom-\r\nHave you been hanging out in East St. Louis bars? Was that you
    who spilled his tequila sunrise on the spec sheets I was trying to impress the
    barmaid with?\r\n\r\nIf there's one thing that's almost impossible to do, it's
    to teach Visigoths to just BE CAREFUL. And clients -- JUST PAY FOR WHAT YOU WANT.
    I think I told the story here already about my bid on a logo design for a fairly
    large St. Louis company. After hearing my bid, the owner scoffed, \"My nephew
    has a computer -- he'll do it for $50!\""
  created: '2005-10-19 04:55:23'
- author:
    name: fractal
    picture: 110979
  body: "<cite>How do we prove or demonstrate the VALUE of type? Until this question
    is answered the debate will never end. Getting the consumer to understand the
    VALUE of type is where I think the answer is.</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd I thought we graphic
    designers had it tough educating clients and the public about the worth of <cite>our</cite>
    services!\r\n\r\nA common underlying theme thoughout all of this discussion is
    the new(ish), digital nature of type design and font construction. The digital
    age has done similar things to music and graphic design.\r\n\r\nIt is not just
    pirating, but the fact that our raw materials are not so raw anymore. Programmers
    use code snippets, musicians use samples and sound bites, graphic designers use
    clipart (and free fonts). Yes the work is completed quicker, but that has become
    the expectation as well, and the perceived value is also lower. \"You just push
    some buttons and it's done - right?\" \r\n\r\nThe craft of these things is being
    slowly (actually, quickly) eroded in favour of speed of deployment and just-in-time
    delivery.\r\n\r\n\u2014pd\u2014\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-19 07:58:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Have you been hanging out in East St. Louis bars? Was that you who spilled
    his tequila sunrise on the spec sheets I was trying to impress the barmaid with?\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!
    \ No Chuck, I haven't been to East St Louis in 25 years.  I was on a press check
    there long ago.  The printing plant had 2 rows of barbed wire fence with nasty
    looking Dobermans standing guard between them.  I didn't wander off in to any
    neighborhood bars.  I am sure the barmaid you were trying to impress was tougher
    than I am :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-19 13:45:09'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: Although I agree that adding type design to a graphic designer's formal education
    would be beneficial, it would not be easy to implement for many schools. The number
    of type designers that exist is small, the number that excel even smaller, and
    the number that want to teach even smaller still.
  created: '2005-10-19 14:12:12'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Exposure is the key. If we can't get in on an official level, there needs
    to be student run groups/meetings, and central website with writings, links, excercises.
    Would need a student leader, etc... Critiques only for 'advanced' students?
  created: '2005-10-19 15:11:48'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Eric, we formed something similar in Offenbach last year, [[TypeOff]].
  created: '2005-10-19 15:37:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Perhaps what is needed is a \"How to Broaden Your Knowledge of Typography--The
    grass roots way\" package of materials which can be given to potential type zealot
    students and or design faculty. Maybe what Dan started in Offenbach would be a
    good starting point? \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-19 16:33:24'
- author:
    name: peter_bain
  body: "The best way to further an understanding of type is to, um, to teach-study-practice
    typography.\r\n\r\nIt means dialogue and debate on necessary teaching among design
    faculty. It means client and professional education and outreach. It means anything
    that pushes the bar up, and makes a older designer have to admit they never understood
    exactly why the Univers and Helvetica people couldn't just agree. It means not
    discriminating against handlettering and calligraphy, when taught and practiced
    at a sophisticated level, because they can imprint history, form and sensitivity
    without having to make typefaces. It means worshipping the masters with a few
    choice words behind their back and pointing out the foibles when you find them.
    \r\n\r\nI can't think of one fresh, concrete, reasonable proposal that hasn't
    been made before. Rather, the job is to actually pursue one."
  created: '2005-10-20 03:24:49'
date: '2005-10-14 20:46:18'
node_type: forum
title: the high price of type

---
