---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "Has anybody done this yet? Contextual replacement in OpenType using Kerning
  as the context. \r\n\r\nI would like to offer a version of my font Army Pool Tiles
  ( which has kerning pairs ) in a reverse mode. Originally I thought I could just
  reverse the tiles but then I found I was getting unacceptable overlaps and gaps
  when the kerning was used ( suprise suprise) - so I need to create context dependent
  alternatives that fit correctly for the reverse font/s. \r\n\r\nHas anybody here
  done this? \r\n\r\nI am also just starting to learn this aspect of Fontlab. Does
  anybody have opinions about if it is better to code for contextual substitution
  in fontlab or with some 3rd part tool?  \r\n\r\n******\r\nUpdate. I added an image
  which shows the kerning result. What the blue highlight is showing is the area I
  am concerned with in a reverse version of my font. In a reverse version the blue
  area would be mostly filled with tiles. When I apply a kern between the 'V' & 'a',
  the 'a' comes closer to the 'V'. Without substitution part of the V would be overlapped.
  What I plan to do is create an 'a' which has it's first line of tiles removed to
  substitute in when it occurs after 'V' (and some other glyphs). I have 298 pairs
  total.\r\n\r\nIf I get this working I will show the results."
comments:
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i'm confused... can you make your meaning a bit clearer. (for dummies like
    me)
  created: '2005-10-18 20:16:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'You can''t use kerning per se as the context, i.e. there is no way to change
    whether a lookup is applied depending on whether or not kerning is active, but
    you can certainly substitute special glyphs to resolve spacing issues. I''m doing
    this in one of my current projects: I have special glyphs of some lowercase letters
    to use after g and r, so that they don''t collide.'
  created: '2005-10-18 20:16:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think Cambria uses a special 'f' when placed next to 'i' instead of a traditional
    ligature. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2005-10-18 22:04:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am attempting to use a special \"r\" when next to \"i\" in a typeface I
    am working on. That part works fine.  The problem I am having is when I get a
    double r next to an i.  I can't get the script to compile. I want to get 2 alternnate
    r's next to the i but instead I get two different kinds of r.  Anybody have any
    ideas why? The font is in the Critique section here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15626\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-18 22:36:51'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Aha! So you guys are doing this!  \r\n\r\nSorry Paul, I am sure the fault
    is with my explanation. I will post an visual example of why I want to do this
    - the best way no doubt.\r\n\r\nJohn, I didn't think I could get the font's kerning
    table to talk to the replacement engine in open type - but I can look at my kerning
    table & see where I might want to make substitutions and then make them based
    on context ( V next to a or A) etc.\r\n\r\nChris, & John: You are using Fontlab
    to make your substitution scripts right?"
  created: '2005-10-19 00:04:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nI am using FontLab 4.6 on a Mac. I am not an expert by any means.
    I am just plodding through the opentype resourse PDFs available from Adobe and
    Microsoft.  John Hudson and Thomas Phinney are very good resources though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-19 00:50:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Eben, no, I'm not using FontLab for my substitutions. I do all my OpenType
    Layout work in MS VOLT.
  created: '2005-10-19 02:18:12'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'How did each of you decide? MS Volt is windows only right? '
  created: '2005-10-19 09:16:33'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "Eben, I use FontLab for my own substitutions. VOLT is more powerful and definitely
    worth learning if you have access to a Windows machine. (Which you also want anyway
    because FontLab Studio 5 is Windows-only so far, and because soon you'll want
    to test OpenType font behavior in Avalon applications.) I have not learned VOLT
    yet because I don't do complex script type design. (Yet.) Er, and because I'm
    sorta lazy.\r\n\r\nOpenType is supposed to have contextual kerning at some point
    in the future. At present, only <a href=\"http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&cat_id=RenderingGraphite\">Graphite</a>
    can do that. So far Graphite is only used in a <a href=\"http://sila.mozdev.org/screenshots.html\">limited
    range of applications.</a>"
  created: '2005-10-19 11:43:42'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Update  ^ up top.
  created: '2005-10-19 22:56:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nI use a Mac so VOLT is not an option.  I am more of a visual person
    and VOLT may be more geeky than I want albeit very powerful.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-19 23:13:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nIf you can define your context as a particular glyph following a
    particular glyph or glyphs, it should work fine.  The substitution won't be due
    to a degree of kerning but the pairing of stated glyphs in sequence. \r\nIn my
    case, I am subing r when it precedes i or j.  Here is my script:\r\n\r\nfeature
    calt { # contextual alternate\r\n\tsub r' [i j] by r.alt;\r\n} calt;\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-19 23:21:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Wow. Thats cool. Very cool.\r\n\r\nActually making the *preceding* character
    change seems X-TRA cool! \r\n\r\nDo you know if there are web pages which offer
    example code so I can start to deduce what is going on in the code? And maybe
    make off with some that is relevant too? For some reson I get MEGO when I read
    directions meant for programmers. But I can code CSS & HTML just fine because
    I can look at the code & look at what it makes & make the intuitive leap. This
    probably means I won't be coding javascript but maybe I can manage some Opentype
    code with time. It doesn't look too hairy.\r\n\r\nI did find this example from
    Adam Twardoch @ fontlab's MSN help site:\r\n\r\nfeature calt { \r\nsub n o' by
    o.calt1; \r\nsub b o' by o.calt2; \r\n} calt; \r\n\r\nIt is for 'The first substitutions
    means: if the \"o\" glyph is preceded by \"n\", substitute the \"o\" with the
    \"o.calt1\" glyph. The second means: if the \"o\" glyph is preceded by \"b\",
    substitute the \"o\" with \"o.calt2\" '.\r\n\r\nSo... I think I could maybe say:\r\n\r\nfeature
    calt { \r\nsub V a' by a.calt1; \r\n} calt; \r\n\r\nAnd as long as I have a glyph
    named 'a.calt1' then it should work. \r\n\r\nDoes anybody know what apps support
    what open type 'calls' now (eg. 'calt') - or is there a master list somewhere?
    I imagine that 'calt' is a basic call supported by all apps that support open
    type - but is this right?\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-20 01:01:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Right now the Adobe apps but more will come next year.  Microsoft maybe 2007.\r\n\r\nYou
    might look at the .fea files of sample fonts from FontLab or peak at the Opentype
    window of the font to see coded features. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-20 02:09:23'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "The freeware <a href=\"http://www.abisource.com/\">AbiWord</a> activates
    contextual alternates automatically in Windows XP Service Pack 2, once you go
    into international settings and turn on complex script support.\r\n\r\nOn Mac
    OS X, the inexpensive <a href=\"http://www.redlers.com/mellelscreenshots.html\">Mellel</a>
    supports contextual alternates plus a number of other OpenType features."
  created: '2005-10-20 17:19:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "short sidebar:\r\n\r\nDez said: \"more geeky\".\r\n\r\nI question that. At
    what point is working with scripting less geeky in general?\r\n\r\n;^)\r\n\r\nas
    you were."
  created: '2005-10-20 17:57:41'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Do you know if there are web pages which offer example code so I can
    start to deduce what is going on in the code? And maybe make off with some that
    is relevant too?</em>\r\n\r\nI started a bit of a OpenType crash course in the
    [[typowiki|wiki]] at [[OT_How-To]]. There it links to some sample code from Adobe
    that you can look at and learn from."
  created: '2005-10-20 18:28:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I question that. At what point is working with scripting less geeky in
    general?\"\r\n\r\nWhen you are not working in a text editor :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-20 20:58:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...The problem I am having is when I get a double r next to an i. I can\u2019t
    get the script to compile. I want to get 2 alternnate r\u2019s next to the i but
    instead I get two different kinds of r. Anybody have any ideas why? ...\"\r\n\r\nKUDOS
    to Paul Hunt for helping me with this one! It is now working fine thanks to Paul
    showing me the proper placement of the single quote and space.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thanksCowboy.jpg]"
  created: '2005-10-20 23:42:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Ah, I'm late to the party, I see.\r\n\r\nI've posted some unusual code examples
    of contextual substitutions on the Adobe User Forum for our OpenType FDK (same
    code works in FontLab, too).\r\nhttp://www.adobeforums.com/OpenType%20Font%20Developers%27%20Kit%20(FDK)/160\r\n\r\nI'm
    also working on an article on contextual subs for my blog. I'll let you know when
    it's up.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-10-21 03:47:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Awesome.\r\n\r\nI end up grabbing the .AFM from a postsctipt version of my
    Font to get a complete pair listing. Then I massaged the text in preperation for
    merging it with the 'Calt' function set.\r\n\r\nI noticed that I ma going to want
    to substitute both glyphs in a character pair in one case\r\n\r\nI was wondering
    how this code looks to 'yall.\r\n\r\nThe pair is: F J \r\n\r\nfeature calt { #
    \r\nsub F\u2019 J\u2019  by F.calt3 J.calt3;\r\n} calt;\r\n\r\nAlso, The code
    that Chris showed us uses this phrase :  [ij]\r\n\r\nIs that bracket set effectively
    saying 'including'?\r\n\r\nIs so, can you transalte this:\r\n\r\nfeature calt
    {\r\nsub n o\u2019 by o.calt1;\r\nsub b o\u2019 by o.calt1;\r\n} calt;\r\n\r\n(Meaning:
    if you have 'no' or 'bo' sub the o to the glyph o.calt1)\r\n\r\nto this:\r\n\r\nfeature
    calt {\r\nsub [n b] o\u2019 by o.calt1;\r\n} calt;\r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2005-10-21 04:13:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John Butler: <em>OpenType is supposed to have contextual kerning at some
    point in the future. At present, only Graphite can do that.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    think this is accurate, unless you are thinking of contextual kerning in some
    different sense. I do contextual kerning lookups for Arabic OpenType pretty regularly,
    e.g. adjusting the kerning between two letters when a mark on the second provides
    context. As far as I know, this is one of the things that you need to use VOLT
    for, as the Adobe FDK code used by FontLab doesn't support contextual GPOS.\r\n\r\nEben,
    the main reason I use VOLT for all my OT stuff is that it is much more powerful
    than what FontLab has available: it supports a wider range of lookup types, including
    the GPOS mark positioning that I need in most of my projects."
  created: '2005-10-21 05:40:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chris Lozos: <em>I use a Mac so VOLT is not an option. I am more of a visual
    person and VOLT may be more geeky than I want albeit very powerful.</em>\r\n\r\nIronically,
    one of the things I like about VOLT is that it is <em>more</em> visual than FontLab.
    You can see the input and output for every lookup directly in the lookup window
    as you are working."
  created: '2005-10-21 05:43:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Hmmm That sounds like a ringing endorsement to me!
  created: '2005-10-21 07:28:04'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t think this is accurate, unless you are thinking of contextual
    kerning in some different sense. I do contextual kerning lookups for Arabic OpenType
    pretty regularly, e.g. adjusting the kerning between two letters when a mark on
    the second provides context. As far as I know, this is one of the things that
    you need to use VOLT for, as the Adobe FDK code used by FontLab doesn\u2019t support
    contextual GPOS.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm talking about Latin script fonts as rendered
    in the applications used by most Latin-script OT font buyers by a wide margin."
  created: '2005-10-21 12:52:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I found a way of doing a two letter calt switch. \r\n\r\nExample 'FJ' I want
    altrenate glyphs for both F & J in this case\r\n\r\nhere is how I did it.\r\n\r\nsub
    F' J by F.calt3;\r\nsub F.calt3 J' by J.calt1;\r\n\r\noriginally I had tried \r\n\r\nsub
    F\u2019 J\u2019 by F.calt3 J.calt1;\r\n\r\nbut that didn't work."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Henyk
      picture: 111038
    body: "> sub F\u2019 J\u2019 by F.calt3 J.calt1;\r\n> but that didn\u2019t work.\r\n\r\nYou
      may try next code:\r\n\r\nfeature clig {\r\nsub @anyletter F' J' by FJ.clig;\r\n}
      clig;\r\n\r\nwhere \r\n@anyletter \u2014 special class contains all letters
      \r\nFJ.clig \u2014 specially prepared ligature\r\n\r\nor more simple, as usual
      \"ligature\"\r\n\r\nIt really works, tested with electronics! ;)))"
    created: '2005-10-25 15:14:18'
  created: '2005-10-21 21:11:59'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Eben, the F' J' sub was never going to work, as the ' means \"in this contect,
    change this one\", and having two of them goes against the syntax. Doing it as
    two lines is definitely the right way, and you'll have to make sure that the F'
    J comes before the F.alt J' in the feature.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-21 22:06:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Ironically, one of the things I like about VOLT is that it is more visual
    than FontLab. You can see the input and output for every lookup directly in the
    lookup window as you are working.\"\r\n\r\nSo John, anyone plan to port that puppy
    to the Mac :-)\r\nMy fontLab is acting freaky lately, everytime I close and reopen
    a file, the five features get all jumbled and strung out as one entry.  I have
    to re-build my features everytime I open a file.  My .fea files seem to have vanished
    too. Maybe it is just Adam messing with my mind:-)\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-21 22:27:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"http://www.adobeforums.com/OpenType%20Font%20Developers%27%20Kit%20(FDK)/160\"\r\n\r\nHi
    Thomas, welcome to the frey.  I am going to look at your site as soon as I can
    decifer your URL :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-21 22:29:40'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: The URL looks like that because it is on a mac I think. The % signs are directories
    like / are more usually. It does go somewhere - but somewhere needing a password...
    for now.
  created: '2005-10-22 00:10:05'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: The % signs indicate a character that would not normally be allowed in a URL.
    %20 is a space; %27 is a single quote. Nothing to do with Macs, I don't think.
  created: '2005-10-22 00:15:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It seemed like for a while when people were serving web pages from macs the
    directories were separated by % signs too. I think when macs went unix/osx this
    went away but I am not sure...\r\n\r\nNow I am curious! Mark, How did you find
    out about the %20?"
  created: '2005-10-22 01:55:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mac users for many years could use space characters in their file names.
    \ When they started naming web pages and directories, the space habit was still
    there,  Web servers replaced spaces with %20 because spaces are a no-no in URLs.
    Mac users have since learned not to use spaces in their URLs and that is why you
    don't see it anymore.  It had nothing to do with OS-X. Iknew about %20 for years
    but didn'y know about %27 'til Mark's post tonight.\r\nI was joking with Thomas
    by the way.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-22 03:41:50'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'The % thing is a Unix thing. It indicates that a character code (in hexadecimal)
    will follow. It''s like an escape character. Every programming and scripting language
    has something like it. In Javascript, it''s the backslash. '
  created: '2005-10-22 06:40:26'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "\u201CCuriouser and curiouser!\u201D Cried Alice "
  created: '2005-10-22 07:23:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Note that you can do many-to-one subs (contextually or not), or one-to-many,
    it's just many-to-many that's not supported. However, you can usually get equivalent
    results by doing one or both of the other two.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-10-22 21:08:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "John Butler: <em>I\u2019m talking about Latin script fonts as rendered in
    the applications used by most Latin-script OT font buyers by a wide margin.</em>\r\n\r\nAh,
    understood. From the way you stated it originally, it sounded like a limitation
    of OpenType, rather than a limitation of applications and font some development
    tools."
  created: '2005-10-22 21:16:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Tom Phinney: <em>Note that you can do many-to-one subs (contextually or not),
    or one-to-many...</em>\r\n\r\nIn FDK? As far as I know, one-to-many (type 2 GSUB
    lookups) are not still supported in FDK/FontLab, although it is a long time since
    I tried it."
  created: '2005-10-22 21:18:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "John H: You're probably right that Type 2 lookups aren't currently supported
    in the FDK and FontLab. If so, it should be fixed in another two FDK releases,
    some time next summer.\r\n\r\n(UPDATE: more likely spring 2007)\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-10-22 21:23:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have figured out how to do this\r\n\r\nsub [Yacute F T V X Y f florin]
    a' by a.calt1;\r\n\r\nThis let's me change my 'a' glyph to 'a.calt1' if it is
    preceded by Yacute 'F T V X Y f' or 'florin'\r\n\r\nWhich is great. I should be
    able to get the list down to a somewhat more manageable size  and find and edit
    errors/omissions more easily now. \r\n\r\nSpeaking of which - I had started to
    think that it might not be a bad idea to look at the .afm of a similar font to
    see what pairs are being kerned. I found my original kerning info was best accessed
    in my own .afm file. Since my face is modular but not a monospace it ends up having
    a slightly different set of kerning needs than is typical. I am not sure what
    font I would look to. \r\n\r\nAny suggestions?\r\n\r\nAlso, Does anybody have
    any suggestions on how to organize the calt code further? Any common traps to
    avoid?\r\n\r\nAny favorite pairs?\r\n\r\nAnd last but certainly not least: Now
    that I have created 30 or so altrenates glyphs I need to figure out the best way
    to test them in pairs - especially where they precede another glyph. So for instance
    I need to include F.calt3 in my 'a' lists like this:\r\n\r\nsub [Yacute F F.calt3
    T V X Y f florin] a' by a.calt1;\r\n\r\nAny suggestions on managing this kind
    of echo effect in the code?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-24 21:24:39'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Why not just do it as a simple liga feature:\r\n\r\n<code>feature liga {\r\nsub
    F J by F_J;\r\n} liga;</code>\r\n\r\nwhere F_J is your ligature.\r\n\r\nSeems
    like a lot of unnecessary trouble to use clig for it."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Henyk
      picture: 111038
    body: "> Seems like a lot of unnecessary trouble to use clig for it.\r\n\r\nMay
      be, or may not to be ;) \r\n\r\nFrom my own experience: clig working perfectly
      (Adobe CS/CS2 products)"
    created: '2005-10-26 09:47:59'
  created: '2005-10-25 15:45:48'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think I understand liga already - but I don't know what clig does yet.
    I will have to dig into the code references again. Thanks for the examples! Looking
    into it I found that one good reason to go with Liga aside from simplicity is
    that it is more broadly supported\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/fonts/opentype_feature_support/\r\n\r\nSimon,
    Thomas, what code have you eneded up using the most? Liga? There are tons of code
    ellements out there but for roman type at least it seems like 3-4 bits would be
    good for up 98% of the time. This idea of mine is admittedly naive - but is it
    wrong?\r\n\r\nAlso, I see that the code I have been using 'calt' is not supported
    as widely as Liga. Maybe I aught to reverse course & use liga for all my combinations.
    It would make for fewer altrnate glyphs - thats for sure!\r\n\r\nHenadij, Which
    ones do you use & why?"
  created: '2005-10-25 16:59:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Man, it's riveting to see my childhood friend Code\r\nso tangibly showing
    up in a typographic forum...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 17:03:57'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Does VOLT help you track/manage combinations? Fontlab is great at lots of
    things but tracking kerns & Opentype code - and the interaction between them doesn't
    seem to be one of them.
  created: '2005-10-25 17:45:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I said before 'It would make for fewer altrnate glyphs - thats for sure!'
    This is false. Actually it increases the # by tenfold or so. I still haven't decided
    which model makes the most sense. I am leaning towards liga because Photoshop
    6 & 7 use it. But I haven't decided. Also, which is easier to deal with and manage
    - the 300 combinations of 30 glyphs or so or the 300 glyphs? The visual and kerning
    management of 300 glyphs would be easier because each combination is directly
    represented. Testing would be faster because of a reduced # of characters to change
    for each test. However the # of tests will be the same. But 30 glyphs makes a
    lighter font in terms of data size. \r\n\r\nI am not sure how so many non-standard
    glyphs would be accepted into an opentype font - alot to be sure but maybe not
    an infinite amount.\r\n\r\nMy case is atypical because I am using the liga or
    calt to help me past a problem in the reverse version of the font. \r\n\r\nHenadij,
    how many instances end up being created in your work? IS it a large number? What
    is your method for managing them?\r\n\r\nMark, how about you?"
  created: '2005-10-26 17:07:33'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I don't know. I just saw a simpler way to do what Henadij was doing with the
    clig definition. I don't have any good ideas how to solve your problem. Seems
    like you have painted yourself into a corner with this particular design concept.
    You may be better off not kerning at all.
  created: '2005-10-26 19:56:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Oh, I don't know. It's not so bad. It's a day or two's work once I decide
    what I want to do and it's an interesting technical & mental excersize for me.
    \r\n\r\nOne thing I am still unclear about is is how clig is more complex than
    Liga. Liga is more widely supported and is invoked no matter the context. Whereas
    in some ways Henadij is getting around the point of having the Clig feature at
    all ( context ) with his 'sub @anyletter'. Appart from support differences the
    code is pretty similar in length. The one advantage i see in using Clig is that
    if you decided to start invoking special cases later on you could do so more quickly/easily
    with the clig code... On the other hand, Mark, you are right in that Clig code
    isn't quite orthodox. But all of this is shades of grey."
  created: '2005-10-26 20:26:00'
- author:
    name: Henyk
    picture: 111038
  body: "Hi, all!\r\nI think that clig using is really extreme way, particularly in
    case \r\nsub @anyletter  :)\r\n\r\nIf I need many instances of \u201Cligature\u201D,
    constructing it from two alternate glyphs seems more logically, but in case of
    only few instances I prefer clig, particularly if calt definition is complicated
    and contains constructions such as \r\nsub a b c\u2019 by c.alt; \r\nwhich may
    be not generated with FL 4.x :(\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 11:07:25'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The definition of \"contextual\" (as in 'clig' and 'calt') is that some glyphs,
    other than those being substituted, provide the context. There's no reason to
    use 'clig' when it's not contextual; you might as well use 'liga', 'dlig' or 'hlig'
    as appropriate.\r\n\r\nYou can of course use what's supported by current applications
    as a guiding factor as well. But beware that using inappropriate features will
    just confuse things later when future applications do implement the more \"correct\"
    features. Remember, fonts last almost forever.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-10-28 22:45:55'
- author:
    name: Henyk
    picture: 111038
  body: "Thanks, Tom!\r\n\r\nBut please answer on question: how to call hlig replacement
    in InDesign CS/CS2 manually? I don't see it in OT-menu..."
  created: '2005-10-31 09:54:21'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Henyk, \r\n\r\nInDesign does not support \"hlig\" but Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger
    does (so it works in TextEdit, Keynote, Pages and other Cocoa applications). \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Henyk
      picture: 111038
    body: "Czesc!\r\n\r\n> but Mac OS X 10.4 Tiger does\r\n\r\nBut I'm working with
      WinXP-SP2, and haven't another way then InDesign  now :)"
    created: '2005-11-01 10:21:49'
  created: '2005-10-31 10:22:30'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Actually, in InDesign turning on \"discretionary ligatures\" activates both
    the 'dlig' and 'hlig' OT layout feature tags.\r\n\r\nT"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Henyk
      picture: 111038
    body: "\r\n> Actually, in InDesign turning on \u201Cdiscretionary ligatures\u201D
      activates both the \u2018dlig\u2019 and \u2018hlig\u2019 OT layout feature tags.\r\n\r\nOh
      my, how complicated! ;)\r\n\r\nThanks, Tom."
    created: '2005-11-01 10:36:44'
  created: '2005-10-31 18:33:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Is there a way to globally use alternates?  Let's assume you have an alternate
    \"g\" and want to use it in a column of text.  Is there a way of doing this without
    using the Glyph palette a hundred times?  What I do now is the the alternate as
    Swash and use the Swash feature in InD.  It works but it is kind of false advertising
    sing the alternate g is not swash by any means.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-31 18:58:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You could always do the old fashioned thing and offer ant alt font... \r\n\r\nWhat
    I want OTF to do is to let us specify color. It wouldn't be *that* hard surely!.
    \r\n\r\nAnd it would open up a whole new market! Think of what you could do with
    overlays!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 00:49:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "> Actually, in InDesign turning on \u201Cdiscretionary ligatures\u201D activates
    both the \u2018dlig\u2019 and \u2018hlig\u2019 OT layout feature tags.\r\n\r\nbut
    not in PhotoShop. Down with discrepancies!"
  created: '2005-11-01 14:26:20'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Is there a way to globally use alternates?</em>\r\n\r\nIn InDesign, you
    can apply a stylistic set. There can be up to 20 of them.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I
    think the mechanism for choosing alternate characters in OT fonts is flawed and
    limited. \r\n\r\nLet's say you always want to use a certain alternate \"e\" in
    a certain font. \r\n\r\nYou could insert it manually every time an \"e\" appears,
    but that would be extremely tedious. \r\n\r\nOr, you see that the alternate \"e\"
    is part of Stylistic Set 2, so you select all the text and apply that. But then
    you notice that Stylistic Set 2 also contains a bunch of other alternates that
    you don't want. The only recourse is to apply the Stylistic set just wherever
    an \"e\" appears, but that's almost as tedious as the first method. (You get a
    similar problem when you put the alternates in a separate font.)\r\n\r\nIt seems
    like you ought to be able to look at a list of alternates for a particular character
    and set a preference for which one to use in a particular text selection or style
    sheet. This would be a sort of user-defined \"stylistic set.\" \r\n\r\n(Yet something
    else for Adobe's feature request page. Not that Adobe should be the only one listening.)"
  created: '2005-11-01 14:34:39'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'It does seem like setting preferences for use by the user - and being able
    to offer these preferences pre-set as part of the font design would be a far more
    practical addition. I agree. In the meantime, although it takes up more space
    than is ideal you can release several versions of a font with the features set
    that you think most likeley to be of use. Even if it''s just 1 2 or 3 glyphs. '
  created: '2005-11-01 16:34:25'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Imagine, though, if you had a font with even just five alternate characters
    (corresponding to five normal characters). With five alternates, there are 31
    possible stylistic sets using 1 to all 5 alternate characters. Add one more alternate
    character and you get 63 possible sets. Ad one more and you get 127, and so on.
    How do you decide which are the most likely combinations? What if the user wants
    some other combination? Having a UI in which the user can choose alternates <em>\xE0
    la carte</em> and apply them to an entire range of text seems like it would be
    a less cumbersome approach."
  created: '2005-11-01 17:32:09'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Having a UI in which the user can choose alternates \xE0 la carte and
    apply them to an entire range of text seems like it would be a less cumbersome
    approach.</em>\r\n\r\ni agree. i think it would be great if there were some type
    of panel that let you basically build your own OT rules, something like stylesheets
    but actual user defined stylistic sets would be awesome."
  created: '2005-11-01 17:47:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Mark, I agree of course - I just meant that in some cases, not even the majority,
    it could make sense (and be practical) to have a regular & then an alt 1 set &
    maybe an alt 2 set where a few glyphs are changed either with OT script/feature
    or simply by using different outlines. Chris' new font to be being one possble
    case. His font has both a double bowl g & a single bowl g and it makes a big difference
    to how the face comes across. Given the change in feeling he perhaps cound redesign
    or tweak 2-3 other characters in a version of his font and create a different
    feeling. Like I said it is no panacea. But he could do it today without waiting
    for improvements to the OT standard.
  created: '2005-11-01 18:05:13'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I just noticed something about InDesign's implementation of stylistic sets:
    You can apply more than one at a time. A type designer could put just one alternate
    character in each set, thereby getting the \"\xE0 la carte\" effect that I described.
    You would still be limited to 20 sets, but it would work if you had a limited
    number of alternates. If have more than 20 alternates, and there are certain alternates
    that, as a rule, should go together, you could put them in the same set to get
    them into the 20 available sets..."
  created: '2005-11-01 19:37:37'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "In fact, I think this is such a great idea, I'm going to do an update to
    Proxima Nova. I wish I'd though of this before I released it. \r\n\r\n(Free update
    for licensed users--you will be notified when it's ready.)"
  created: '2005-11-01 20:53:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Given the change in feeling he perhaps could redesign or tweak 2-3 other
    characters in a version of his font and create a different feeling...\"\r\n\r\nThe
    problem is also educating the user of how to do it and even letting them know
    it is available as a selling point.\r\nI know you can get into rapid growth with
    the factorial of variables.  Twenty factorial is a large number. Many font users
    don't even try the basic alternates.  I guess we have to be satisfied we are at
    least offering many possibilities to the very type savvy designer.\r\nI like the
    \"Alternate style Sheet\" idea.  This would be a universal tool which would not
    have to be redefined for each and every typeface.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-01 21:51:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"(Free update for licensed users\u2014you will be notified when it\u2019s
    ready.)\"\r\n\r\nThanks Mark!\r\n\r\nAlso, I'd be interested in how you do it.
    \ This seems like something of universal value to type designers.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-01 21:54:12'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Note: You can apply one or more Stylistic Sets to a character- or paragraph-level
    style sheet in InDesign.\r\n\r\nI will provide a user guide with Proxima Nova
    on how its Stylistic Sets work when the new version is out."
  created: '2005-11-01 21:56:22'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "What I intend to do is this:\r\n\r\nThere are four alternate characters in
    Proxima Nova: A more geometric (Futura-like) G, a one-story a (and corresponding
    two-story a in the italic), an l with a tail, and a curved y (similar to a one-story
    g). Note: The normal roman a is two-story; the normal italic a is one-story.\r\n\r\nThere
    will be seven stylistic sets:\r\n\r\nSet 1: Alternate a, l, and y in the roman;
    Alternate l, and y in the italic. This is the \"primer\" or \"schoolbook\" set,
    intended for early reader books.\r\n\r\nSet 2: Alternate G and a in the roman;
    Alternate G in the italic. This is the \"Futura-like\" set.\r\n\r\nSet 3: Alternate
    G.\r\n\r\nSet 4: Alternate (one-story) a (roman only).\r\n\r\nSet 5: Alternate
    (two-story) a (italic only).\r\n\r\nSet 6: Alternate l.\r\n\r\nSet 7: Alternate
    y.\r\n\r\nThe first two are Stylistic Sets in the way (I think) the feature is
    intended to be used. The rest are effectively <em>\xE0 la carte</em> alternate
    character styles which can be mixed and matched to taste. You could actually recreate
    the first to sets using the others like this:\r\n\r\nEquivalent to Set 1: Apply
    Set 4, Set 6, and Set 7.\r\n\r\nEquivalent to Set 2: Apply Set 3 and Set 4.\r\n\r\nAnd
    so on.\r\n\r\n(By the way, the current version of Proxima Nova has two Stylistic
    Sets, basically the same as the first two of the proposed sets, except that the
    alternate (two-story) a is included in the italic. This was ill-conceived, I realize
    on hindsight.)"
  created: '2005-11-01 22:22:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"By the way, the current version of Proxima Nova has two Stylistic Sets,
    basically the same as the first two of the proposed sets, except that the alternate
    (two-story) a is included in the italic. This was ill-conceived, I realize on
    hindsight.)\"\r\n\r\nNow I'll have to take another look it.\r\n\r\nThanks so much
    for sharing your wisdom on this Mark! I see I have much to learn about opentype
    features.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-02 00:37:35'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "InDesign CS2 was the first application (that I'm aware of) to support Stylistic
    Sets. I didn't have a copy of it until about a week before I released Proxima
    Nova, and didn't realize the program supported them until even later. Consequently,
    I put the features in before I really understood how they would be implemented
    on the user end. \r\n\r\nI'm still learning, too."
  created: '2005-11-02 01:31:40'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Mr Simonson --\r\n\r\nbut don't forget the manual!  ;-)\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2005-11-02 12:10:41'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "http://www.kltf.de/downloads/KLTFTiptoeManual.pdf\r\n\r\nI'm impressed! (Nice
    font, too.)\r\n\r\nThere was a time when even PostScript Type 1 fonts came with
    printed manuals and disks. Of course, the prices were quite a bit higher back
    then. (In 1986, for a three-weight font family like Goudy Oldstyle, Adobe charged
    $185--equivalent to $317 in 2005 dollars.)"
  created: '2005-11-02 14:01:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Great idea Karsten! \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-02 14:35:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow, Karsten - impressive, on many counts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-02 15:25:22'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Oh thanks.\r\n\r\nBut it will turn out useful manuals really are. I doubt
    anyone will save fonts and manual together. \r\n\r\nMy first idea was to use ssXX
    features consistently throughout my typefaces, so, ss01 for certain substitutions,
    ss02 for certain others &c. But with the second and now third type it turns out
    the idea is unrealistic. \r\nNow I read that a font's Description [in FL's FontInfo
    / Name ID 10 in the specifications] was also intended for feature descriptions
    which may be a nice idea. Then information are part of the font. Provided however
    that apps or font management tools would display these information ...  But I
    haven't made use of this myself yet. Maybe you can do this for an updated Proxima
    Nova?\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2005-11-02 15:35:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Nice to see you on typophile Karsten!
  created: '2005-11-02 22:30:21'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I agree that Stylistic Sets are the best solution for the problem Chris proposes
    when he writes: \"Is there a way to globally use alternates? Let\u2019s assume
    you have an alternate \u201Cg\u201D and want to use it in a column of text....\"\r\n\r\nAlso,
    Stylistic Sets can perfectly legitimately be used much as Mark has suggested for
    Proxima Nova. The typeface I'm working on right now has quite a few of them, and
    in much this way. They can be mutually exclusive, or they can be mix-and-match.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-05 02:58:20'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Thomas, good to hear you say that. Part of me worried that my proposed use
    of Stylistic Sets was a sort of hack.
  created: '2005-11-05 04:34:22'
- author:
    name: vizzie
    picture: 111519
  body: "I've been reading through this interesting thread and have a question...\r\n\r\nThe
    book publisher I work for had this custom font developed years ago. It's a cursive
    font designed to teach children cursive writing. It's quite an amazing piece of
    work, each character has the ability to connect with the next character at either
    a high, middle, or low connector.\r\n\r\nOriginally the type 1 font was a 3-piece
    font: screen, printer, and some sort of executable that had to be downloaded to
    the postscript printer to control the contextual connections. This method caused
    2 problems: 1) the font would sometimes get kicked out of the PostScript RIP if
    another font was downloaded, 2) You could not save to postscript for making PDFs.\r\n\r\nLater
    this was all combined in to one font with built-in contextual intelligence. so
    that on postscript output from Quark Xpress (in OS 9) had all the processed contextual
    characters in place and PDFs could be made properly.\r\n\r\nWell, we haven't used
    the font in awhile, have upgraded to OS X and InDesign and it occurred to a couple
    of us the other day that perhaps this special font will no longer work.\r\n\r\nAfter
    a few tests we found that not only does it not work in OS X, but it only worked
    with QuarkXpress 4.11 in OS 9... Even a dusty copy of InDesign 2.02 in OS 9 would
    not work properly with the font.\r\n\r\nGiven all this back history, anyone have
    a clue as to how this font was made? We outsourced the original design of the
    font, so no one here knows how it was done.\r\n\r\nAt any rate, we have Font Lab
    on order and hopefully soon enough I'll be re-constructing the font in OpenType,
    and perhaps asking for hints along the way on this here messageboard...\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n/ed\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cursive.jpg]"
  created: '2006-04-13 19:11:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You can create an Opentype font from it and it will work on all your Opentype
    savvy apps. Nick Shinn and Thomas Phinney gave a class at last years NYC TypeCon
    on exactly such a face.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: vizzie
      picture: 111519
    body: "Cool! Thanks for the info...\r\n\r\nWill Font Lab be able to make the conversion?
      I was reading the Font Lab 5 user manual yesterday and it stated that Font Lab
      didn't support the positioning lookup required to get the connectors to connect
      each glyph.\r\n\r\nthere wouldn't happen to be any sort of archive of the class
      from the NYC TypeCon, a PDF or powerpoint presentation kicking around, would
      there?\r\n\r\nThanks again for getting back so quickly. \r\n\r\ncheers,\r\n/ed"
    created: '2006-04-14 15:19:44'
  created: '2006-04-13 22:08:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't think it would be a straightforward conversion, but it's unlikely
    you will need to use the positioning lookup.\r\nYou would probably have to examine
    the glyph sets, make them into classes, and learn how to implement the \"Contextual
    Alternates\" feature.\r\nI figured out how to do it using the Fontlab manual.\r\nContact
    me and I will send you a reference PDF I made for the workshop.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-14 18:57:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Font Lab didn\u2019t support the positioning lookup required to get the
    connectors to connect each glyph.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>it\u2019s unlikely you will
    need to use the positioning lookup.</em>\r\n\r\nHere you're looking for substitution
    lookups (not positioning lookups, which FontLab <em>does</em> support) that happen
    contextually. I recently did a connecting script using these types of lookups.
    I could post some code here if you're interested.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-14 19:30:21'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: Please, Paul, do share!
  created: '2006-04-14 21:42:59'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "this may be able to be condensed somehow, but this works for letters that
    connect low and high (no middle connections).\r\n\r\nOT Code:\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    calt {\r\nlookup calt1 {\r\n  sub @lc_highexit @lc_all' by @lc_highentry;\r\n}
    calt1;\r\nlookup calt2 {\r\n  sub @bovw_default' by @bovw_natural;\r\n} calt2;\r\n}
    calt;</code>\r\n\r\nClasses:\r\n\r\n<code>@lc_highexit: b o v w b.high o.high
    v.high w.high\r\n@lc_all: a b c d e f g h i j k l m n o p q r s t u v w x y z\r\n@lc_highentry:
    a.high b.high c.high d.high e.high f.high g.high h.high i.high j.high k.high l.high
    m.high n.high o.high p.high q.high r.high s.high t.high u.high v.high w.high x.high
    y.high z.high\r\n@bovw_default: b o v w\r\n@bovw_natural: b.calt o.calt v.calt
    w.calt</code>\r\n\r\njust to explain a bit, if it doesn't all make sense on it's
    own: x.high is a lc character which has a high entry stroke, b.calt has a low
    entry stroke and a high exit stroke, b.high has high entry and exit strokes. This
    is an abbreviated chunk of code, leaving out diacritic forms (or else the class
    info would be much longer, but the OT coding would be the same). Critiques to
    this method are welcome.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: vizzie
      picture: 111519
    body: "Thank you Paul!\r\n\r\nWe unearthed some more info on our special cursive
      font... it was actually a type1/type3 postscript hybrid.\r\n\r\nand thank you
      for posting the code. I look forward to diving in to FontLab real soon.\r\n\r\ncheers,\r\n/ed"
    created: '2006-05-02 16:25:17'
  created: '2006-04-14 22:36:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thank you Paul!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 04:14:20'
date: '2005-10-18 19:49:34'
files:
- filename: example_0.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/example_0.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Opentype Contextual glyph replacement

---
