---
author:
  name: Dan Weaver
body: You&#39;ll get a kick out of this, the upgrades for each Adobe CS product is
  $169. Now Adobe sent me a promo offering the Photoshop upgrade for $169 but I could
  buy the complete Suite with Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign and GoLive for $749.
  Since I have the most recent versions of all those programs I did the math. Buying
  the individual upgrades for each program came out to $676 or $73 cheaper than buying
  the suite. I know its a way to get people to try the other products but
comments:
- author:
    name: meredithalix
    picture: 110244
  body: 'Not only that, but for $73 more you get the ABSENCE of printed manuals: they
    come with standalone products but not with the CS Suite. <BR> <BR>What a bargain!'
  created: '2003-10-03 21:14:36'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: But, did you figure in shipping? Just curious.
  created: '2003-10-03 21:15:20'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Shipping is free, I just upgraded and I&#39;ve been a good customer, they
    have a bunch of my dollars.
  created: '2003-10-03 21:30:44'
- author:
    name: grid
    picture: 110160
  body: There is a very animated discussion going on at the InDesign listserve about
    this and related topics. I think this is a market driven decision by Adobe, and
    in the end, we don
  created: '2003-10-03 21:46:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Bill -- are you saying to NOT upgrade to CS? :^\
  created: '2003-10-03 22:12:37'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Tiffany, I think thats the overall Adobe plan, pretty evil if you don&#39;t
    use all the CS programs. But as for now you can do an upgrade per program and  as
    I pointed out to the Adobe rep its cheaper for me to do so.
  created: '2003-10-03 22:18:28'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I&#39;m personally waiting for verification from my friends at Adobe about
    this. Evil? I think that word is a little harsh. But, they do hold the monopoly
    on useful software. I&#39;m wondering if the downside is in the future. For instance,
    if you don&#39;t upgrade to the full CS pack now, will there be a downside in
    the future?
  created: '2003-10-03 22:58:27'
- author:
    name: grid
    picture: 110160
  body: 'Hi Tiffany, <BR> <BR>No, that&#39;s not what I&#39;m saying. What little
    I&#39;ve seen of the upgrades for InDesign and Illustrator has pretty much convinced
    me that it&#39;s a needed upgrade here.  <BR> <BR>What I question is that if I
    upgrade to the CS suite, am I going to be stuck in a cycle of marginal upgrades
    at $600-800 a pop. That worries me.  <BR> <BR>It&#39;s more typical here to buy
    what&#39;s needed as the projects arise where I can utilize the new features.
    Single product upgrades have gone from '
  created: '2003-10-04 03:39:59'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Bill I guess what I was aimming at was Adobe was willing to charge $73 more
    than the upgrade price so people could get the whole suite as a promotion. Why
    not charge the same amount? They claim its worth over $1000, so if they are so
    generious why not go the whole way. Just a thought '
  created: '2003-10-04 15:12:06'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: 'I would not say Adobe has a monopoly. Each of these products has competitors:
    <BR> <BR>Photoshop: Corel PhotoPAINT, the GIMP, &amp;c <BR>Illustrator: CorelDraw,
    Freehand, Killustrator, Expression, &amp;c <BR>InDesign: Quark, MS Publisher,
    Ventura, TeX, &amp;c <BR> <BR>The fact that the competitors mostly suck is not
    Adobe&#39;s problem. $169 per product is a damn fine upgrade price considering
    the advances. Especially Illustrator CS. I haven&#39;t switched to Acro 6 yet
    and don&#39;t know if I really need its new capabilities just yet. And I&#39;ve
    never tried a commercial HTML editor before, but GoLive looks interesting.'
  created: '2003-10-04 15:53:28'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: John my problem isn&#39;t with competiton and I don&#39;t think their products
    are bad I use them all the time. I just think they should have given the same
    price for the suite as the upgrade per product. In my case they will have to send
    me 4 products separately &#40;free shipping&#41; rather than one product one time.
    I understand it was a promotional price but if its worth over a $1000 and your
    discounting to $749 why not discount it to $676 the cost of upgrades of the 4
    products each?
  created: '2003-10-04 21:43:25'
- author:
    name: cchs
    picture: 110574
  body: Award winning brand identity consultancy is seeking a talented Sr. Designer.
    Candidates should have 5 to 7 years experience. <BR> <BR>Proficiency in GIMP,
    CorelDraw, and MS Publisher a must.  <BR> <BR>Fluency in Esperanto a plus. <BR>
    <BR>
  created: '2003-10-04 22:29:23'
- author:
    name: meredithalix
    picture: 110244
  body: Extra points for skillful use of Comic Sans.
  created: '2003-10-05 05:04:52'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Hmmm. Well, it certainly is getting a lot of attention.  <BR> <BR>So, does
    anybody have a problem with the $169 individual application upgrade price? No?
    <BR> <BR>So, what&#39;s bugging people is that the all-in-one upgrade to the suite
    for Photoshop users is a little more expensive than doing individual upgrades,
    IF you already own all the individual applications? Right? <BR> <BR>So, DON&#39;T
    buy the suite upgrade if you already have all the individual apps! What&#39;s
    the big deal? <BR> <BR>Also, remember that not everyone already has all the Adobe
    apps. For those who use other apps &#40;or no apps&#41; in one or more categories,
    the suite upgrade from Photoshop looks a lot more attractive. <BR> <BR>By the
    way, there are a couple of things that come in the suite that don&#39;t come separately:
    <BR>- Version Cue <BR>- several weights of Brioso Pro and Warnock Pro <BR>- a
    Total Training CD &#40;I admit I don&#39;t even know what that is!&#41; <BR> <BR>However,
    one certainly should balance that against the lack of printed manuals &#40;which
    DO come with the individual apps&#41;. <BR> <BR>It&#39;s understandable that people
    are unhappy with the &#42;relative&#42; prices, but I think it&#39;s worth noting
    that these are pretty reasonable rates in &#42;absolute&#42; terms, or compared
    to the competition. Look at what Quark does for upgrades.... <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2003-10-06 01:23:04'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Thomas It just struck me as a strange thing to do. I happen to  have all the
    applications and upgraded individually. The sales guy was very understanding and
    explained the difference to me but
  created: '2003-10-06 12:12:28'
- author:
    name: selfbuildtype
    picture: 110493
  body: '&#34;Award winning brand identity consultancy is seeking a talented Sr. Designer.
    Candidates should have 5 to 7 years experience.  <BR>  <BR>Proficiency in GIMP,
    CorelDraw, and MS Publisher a must.   <BR>  <BR>Fluency in Esperanto a plus.&#34;
    <BR> <BR>Made me laugh! <BR> <BR>Photoshop has no competititors, Illustrator has
    FreeHand &#40;I was a Freehand user until v10 when IMO they messed up and I switched&#41;
    and InDesign has Xpress &#40;which I use but loathe&#41;. Personally I&#39;m impressed
    by whats going on the Adobe camp and looking forward to getting my mitts on CS.
    Fair enough it won&#39;t be my money that buys the upgrade, but if I was starting
    from scratch, would I buy Quark 6 for '
  created: '2003-10-07 19:14:24'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Interesting articles on the Adobe CS front. It seems Photographer gets alot
    more goodies, but what I really like they are making the type and color engines
    alike, also InDesign supports spot colors, and what I&#39;m happiest about is
    they cut the fat in Illustrator so it runs twice as fast. Yippee  '
  created: '2003-10-07 20:19:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: But where are these articles Daniel?
  created: '2003-10-07 20:28:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Reviews of the Adobe Creative Suite applications can be found at: <a href="http://www.macuser.co.uk"
    target="_blank">http://www.macuser.co.uk</a> <BR> <BR>Also, it seems that not
    just a few selected fonts, but the complete Warnock Pro and Brioso Pro families
    &#40;including optical size variants&#41; are a bonus for getting the full Creative
    Suite. That&#39;s 74 fonts, retailing for $648. <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2003-10-07 20:35:25'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Also CreativePro.com has an article by some very impressive people today.
    Also go to Photoshopuser.com they have a bunch of good articles and quicktime
    movies. Good point Thomas, but I still love that Illustrator works twice as fast.
    Love the low rez screen redraw idea.
  created: '2003-10-07 20:46:49'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: Yeah, that enhanced speed in Illustrator is really impressive. In fact, it
    actually gave me trouble in my demo at ATypI, because the scrolling would be so
    fast that I would sometimes overshoot what I was aiming for. You can get used
    to it, but your reflexes need to be retrained - it&#39;s like going from an Oldsmobile
    to a Ferrari. <BR> <BR>T
  created: '2003-10-07 21:21:56'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: To add to Thomas&#39; remarks about the fonts, that is 212 total fonts. Or
    at least that what is said <a href="http://www.adobeforums.com/cgi-bin/webx?13@200.ZjqHbTf9qdQ.0@.2ccdbf88/4"
    target="_blank">here</a>. You can also see all of those included.
  created: '2003-10-07 21:33:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; 212 total fonts. <BR> <BR>But isn&#39;t that getting into &#34;font
    abuse&#34; territory? Not surprising, considering type is <BR>a secondary consideration
    at Adobe &#40;I mean compared to &#34;dedicated&#34; font houses&#41;. <BR> <BR>hhp
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-07 21:37:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: What do you mean by &#34;font abuse&#34;? I think it is wonderful. Usually
    you get the bare minimum in a family and with this offering you are getting enough
    of the family to actually do work which is &#40;potentially anyway&#41; typographically
    interesting. Did you go look at the offerings? Thomas said 74, I just broke it
    down into weights &#40;which was originally broken down by Thomas in Adobe&#39;s
    forums.&#41;
  created: '2003-10-07 21:43:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I mean like the kind of stuff that makes people think fonts aren&#39;t worth
    much. <BR>You&#39;re getting stuff that&#39;s <i>supposedly</i> worth $648 casually
    bundled with the app. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-07 21:47:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Huh? <BR> <BR>Ok. So including fonts isn&#39;t a value add? Or ... Not making
    the person actually get their credit card out makes them feel as if they were
    free? For me, I think it is a value add. Especially with the new opentype features
    in Illustrator. <BR> <BR>Hmm. Interesting.
  created: '2003-10-07 21:53:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: But nothing is free. The value you add to the bundle is value you&#39;re detracting
    from the fonts. Sure, this is great for Adobe and its users - but it&#39;s bad
    for type designers. Kinda like Nick said recently. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-07 22:01:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: HHP Adobe is pushing the Open Type Format so they want you to fall so much
    in love that format, that you&#39;ll want to toss all your old fonts and replace
    them with Open Type versions.  <BR> <BR>The gist of the articles I&#39;m reading
    people love the upgrades but have strong reservations about the marketing.
  created: '2003-10-07 22:05:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I&#39;m going to ask for a little more explanation. Why? Because I thought
    any time anyone legally obtains &#40;i.e. purchases&#41; a typeface it is good
    for the type designer. And also, I missed Nick&#39;s comment, could you point
    me toward that?
  created: '2003-10-07 22:08:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I thought any time anyone legally obtains &#40;i.e. purchases&#41;
    a typeface it is good for the type designer. <BR> <BR>Better than not paying at
    all, sure! But anyway I&#39;m talking about more than just a given royalty payment,
    I&#39;m talking about the &#34;value image&#34; of fonts. Didn&#39;t Corel get
    flack for bundling buckets of fonts with Draw? Is Adobe like Corel now? <BR> <BR>Nick&#39;s
    stuff: check out the first three results when you enter &#34;dumping&#34; in the
    Typophile search box. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-07 22:19:16'
- author:
    name: selfbuildtype
    picture: 110493
  body: '&#34;HHP Adobe is pushing the Open Type Format so they want you to fall so
    much in love that format, that you&#39;ll want to toss all your old fonts and
    replace them with Open Type versions.&#34; <BR> <BR>The software industry seems
    to be based around licences these days rather than &#39;you own the box/cd/whatever,
    you own the product&#39;. In my opinion foundries should offer free Euro font
    updates and only charge just an upgrade fee for OpenType fonts with extra features.
    One licence for cross platform &amp; pay only for major updates &#40;eg. additional
    OpenType features&#41;. Just need to get round to implementing it myself now,
    what a hypocrite eh?'
  created: '2003-10-07 22:21:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Corel&#39;s fonts were all crap. I think that is one major difference. '
  created: '2003-10-07 22:23:25'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: 'Yes, in many ways Adobe IS like Corel now, only with better software. Frankly,
    it isn&#39;t clever to sell a layout software without some typefaces to '
  created: '2003-10-07 22:27:01'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: 'Oh, and that said... yeah, I was angry when they bundled Garamond OTF with
    InDesign... because I bought it at full price some months before :-D. '
  created: '2003-10-07 22:28:45'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Craig: The software industry has always been based around licenses. They&#39;re
    just doing a better job of educating consumers about it. <BR> <BR>I agree that
    in general font bundling depresses the demand for fonts. There&#39;s no question
    about that. There&#39;s a reasonable argument to be made that it either directly
    or indirectly depresses the customers&#39; valuation of fonts. <BR> <BR>On the
    other hand, I&#39;ll also note that the general trend for Adobe has been to bundle
    fewer and fewer fonts. Back when I started at Adobe there were individual products
    that bundled 220-350 fonts EACH. So the current system where you can buy ALL the
    individual products and only end up with 138 bundled fonts, or 212 if you buy
    the suite, is a significant improvement. <BR> <BR>Cheers, <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2003-10-07 22:31:03'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ok. So I can&#39;t speak for type designer&#39;s, because I&#39;m not a type
    designer. But, I can say, as a purchaser of type, that I appreciate the &#34;value
    add&#34; with the software I purchase from Adobe. Because &#40;A&#41; I know they
    are quality fonts, and &#40;B&#41; I can use the money I&#39;d spend on purchasing
    general type and purchase the trendier type.
  created: '2003-10-07 22:39:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Thomas to demostrate Open Types Capability I feel they only had to bundle
    1 or 2 fonts at the most. One serif and one sans serif, but thats my opinion.
    When I first used the open type version of Adobe Caslon in InDesign it was lights
    out better and I  only use it if I&#39;m in InDesign. '
  created: '2003-10-07 22:40:39'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: Software with fonts included generally don&#39;t help to built the right perception
    that fonts are generally not a free stuff. &#34;why I need to buy any fonts when
    I can get them &#39;free&#39; with my applications? hein&#34; <BR> <BR>But, in
    same time, I agree that its good to bundle a couple of OT fonts to let users see
    what they can do with them. <BR> <BR>I still dream a way to bundle try out versions
    of fonts rather than the fonts itself, as Adobe do with others software who are
    at 99% Try out version sonly. Its an clear indication of how Adobe consider fonts
    versus their applications.
  created: '2003-10-08 10:19:21'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: 'Does a try-out for fonts work technically? '
  created: '2003-10-08 10:41:40'
- author:
    name: jfp
    picture: 110395
  body: This technology don&#39;t exist today. Sound difficult to implement, as Fonts
    work for others and can&#39;t work alone. A software who stop to work is not a
    problem for others, but a font yes, as it can influcence the rest of the machine...
  created: '2003-10-08 15:13:59'
- author:
    name: benkiel
    picture: 110356
  body: So, the package has more fonts &#40;nice&#41; but no manuals &#40;bad&#41;.
    Is it possible to purchase the manuals? If so, how much?
  created: '2003-10-08 15:23:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Ben they don&#39;t want to waste paper on mostly print applications, funny
    huh
  created: '2003-10-08 15:29:11'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: Yves, I think a Trial-Software would be good. I&#39;m, however, completely
    opposed to anything even closely resembling copy-control-technology &#40;like
    Fontwise&#41; or Activations-stuff, anything that pre-criminalizes the User and
    makes Font-Usage complicated. Let&#39;s not repeat the error of the music-industry.
    The best way to sell fonts is to make the public aware of nice typefaces and their
    importance, to make buying them as eay as possible, and to make friends out of
    customers. I&#39;d never ever steal a font from, say, Luc&#40;as&#41;, because
    I know that this is at least &#41;in my case, a small&#41; part of what he lives
    from. You don&#39;t steal from folks you like.  <BR> <BR>BEn, I think dismissing
    the printed manuals is a BRILLIANT idea, ecologically speaking. I&#39;ve been
    throwing away this s&#42;&#42;&#42; for years, never ever needed them. The help
    function and a PDF are absolutely enough. and even more practical. Let&#39;s keep
    more trees alive...
  created: '2003-10-08 15:33:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: There really is no reason for printed manuals. The html version is much better,
    if only because it is searchable. And, the Adobe user to user forums are extremely
    useful too. Not to mention, of course, the knowledge base, also being searchable.
    -- I suppose for a neatnick, like myself, it is nice to not have yet one more
    thing cluttering my space.
  created: '2003-10-08 17:10:08'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: <i>&#34;Award winning brand identity consultancy is seeking a talented Sr.
    Designer. Candidates should have 5 to 7 years experience.  <BR> <BR>Proficiency
    in GIMP, CorelDraw, and MS Publisher a must.</i> <BR> <BR>Craig, when I called
    these applications competitors, I wasn&#39;t implying that they were successful
    or formidable. Merely that they are going after the same group of users that Adobe
    has. Their success or failure is not really Adobe&#39;s problem. It&#39;s interesting
    how the dominant players in just about any market are increasingly seen as having
    an ill-gotten advantage &#40;Microsoft, Adobe, Cisco, &amp;c.&#41;
  created: '2003-10-08 18:15:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; It&#39;s interesting how the dominant players in just about any market
    <BR>&#62; are increasingly seen as having an ill-gotten advantage <BR> <BR>Naaah,
    it&#39;s not their fault, they&#39;re just playing within the decrepit, disgusting
    System... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-08 18:22:40'
- author:
    name: cchs
    picture: 110574
  body: '[double post]'
  created: '2003-10-08 18:28:25'
- author:
    name: cchs
    picture: 110574
  body: I wasn&#39;t suggesting that Adobe is in anyway at fault, John, just pointing
    out that wittingly or not they do have market dominance. Monopoly may be too strong
    a word. <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t think Adobe&#39;s edge is ill-gotten, quite the contrary.
    They make a superior product &#40;except for AI 10 which absolutely blows!&#41;
  created: '2003-10-08 18:29:00'
- author:
    name: selfbuildtype
    picture: 110493
  body: 'Those products <i>are</i> competitors but most aren&#39;t in the same league
    as their Adobe counterparts. A Trabant and a Ferrari are both cars and will get
    you from A to B, but they offer a very different driving experience &#40;not that
    I would know first hand of course&#41;. I don&#39;t see what all the anti-Adobe
    fuss is all about, I certainly don&#39;t see them in the same light as Microsoft.
    CS may well turn out to give Adobe a virtual monopoly but look at Photoshop as
    a product: I find it hard to find fault.'
  created: '2003-10-08 18:34:36'
- author:
    name: selfbuildtype
    picture: 110493
  body: 'Okay, scratch '
  created: '2003-10-08 18:38:10'
- author:
    name: hdschellnack
    picture: 110317
  body: In my opinion, Adobe, so far, has handled things pretty well for a market-leader,
    compared to Microsoft or even -- in their niche -- Quark. They provide an okay
    service, at least via the forums &#40;alas not via phone, but no company really
    does these days&#41;, they manage to actually still improve their products with
    most updates &#40;Photoshop 7 and InDesign 2 being great examples&#41;, they still
    come up with revolutionary new techniques like OTF...  <BR> <BR>It&#39;s just
    that CS is a very sure sign that Adobe is adopting some bad marketing policies.
    The suite itself is a solid idea, but the pricing and the activation are quite
    problematic, I think.  <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-10-08 18:41:13'
- author:
    name: cchs
    picture: 110574
  body: '&#62; I'
  created: '2003-10-08 18:51:23'
- author:
    name: selfbuildtype
    picture: 110493
  body: '&#62; You can. We did. <BR> <BR>We will. In time.'
  created: '2003-10-08 18:54:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I certainly don&#39;t see [Adobe] in the same light as Microsoft. <BR>
    <BR>Not because they&#39;re not trying!  :-/ <BR>A publicly held company is a
    publicly held company. The public doesn&#39;t care about type. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-08 20:08:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Thomas, any plans for a free Adobe CS with purchase of Font Folio?
  created: '2003-10-08 20:32:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: 'Nick: <BR> <BR>Heh. We&#39;ve talked about things like that, but I can&#39;t
    comment on unannounced bundles. Sorry. <BR> <BR>T'
  created: '2003-10-08 20:51:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '<i>Nick wrote:  <BR>This is an example of the retail practice known as &#34;Dumping&#34;,
    i.e. a company with deep pockets flooding the market with cheap product to boost
    market share and drive out competitors.</i>   <BR>  <BR>Nick, you use the term
    cheap. I&#39;m curious, does &#34;cheap&#34; = low quality, or do you mean &#34;cheap&#34;
    = inexpensive? And, why is it inexpensive? Because they can afford to do this?
    I think of Adobe&#39;s type as being some of the highest quality. '
  created: '2003-10-08 21:31:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Tiffany, my description of &#34;dumping&#34; is straight out of the dictionary.
    I know it has slightIy offensive connotations, but it is the correct term for
    an ages-old business practice. I certainly don&#39;t mean low quality! <BR> <BR>In
    Adobe&#39;s case &#40;and my original introduction of the term dumping was in
    a thread on the inexpensive Adobe Classics package for schools&#41; yes, they
    can afford to do it, because being a foundry is not their major source of income,
    and also yes, cheap in relation to the price of sofware and fonts in the marketplace,
    and yes, cheap in relation to the investment of time taken to create a high quality
    original typeface design.  <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-10-08 21:53:48'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Thomas when I ordered my ugrades to CS I asked about my pet but barely out
    of beta LiveMotion, the sales guy thought they were going to roll it into one
    of the existing products. I can believe that because its not part of the CS. Can
    you hint, I know Adobe policy is not to speculate.
  created: '2003-10-08 21:56:47'
date: '2003-10-03 20:54:34'
title: Archive through October 08, 2003

---
