---
author:
  name: popovich
  picture: 110254
body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI am developing a CI programme for an asset management consultancy,
  who are young, smart and aggressive (in a good way) guys. Their clients are somewhat
  elderly CEOs and CFOs of major banks and investment fonds - and this is where the
  challenge lies. I want to achieve some kind of traditional and yet \"contemporary\"
  look. The whole branding should push the personal and intimate (in a good way) side,
  while the team itself pushes the technical side.<!--break-->\r\n\r\nI am bit stuck
  with the choice of the typefaces, though I think the Hermes/Absara tandem could
  work. Here is the letter in not-so-modern color scheme:\r\nhttp://www.xtati.com/_misc/temp/L_acl_hermes_absara1.pdf\r\n\r\nHere
  is the same letter with lively colors:\r\nhttp://www.xtati.com/_misc/temp/L_acl_hermes_absara1a.pdf\r\n\r\nAnd
  here is the \"face and type\" I was working with all the way down to this point
  before trying to adopt \"early 20 century kind of thing\":\r\nhttp://www.xtati.com/_misc/temp/I_acl_face_eureka.pdf\r\n\r\nI
  am looking at all this way too long now and need a punch (in a good way).\r\n\r\nThanks
  for all the comments."
comments:
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nit is late afternoon of the next day, and after 24 reads no
    one wanted to comment? Is the thing that boring or mediocre, that nobody bothers
    to say \"go home and read some books\"? :)\r\n\r\nI just need a second pair of
    eyes on this. If you please..."
  created: '2005-10-23 15:51:44'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "The face thing doesn't work for me. He looks disappointed, and it's unclear
    what a disembodied floating head has to do with money management.\r\n\r\nAs for
    the typeface and document design, I think Absara is fine, if that's what you like,
    but perhaps set a bit bigger. The not-so-modern color scheme is easier on the
    eyes, so I'd go with that one. \r\n\r\nThe \"Postfach\" design aspect also has
    me somewhat confused, putting groups of numbers and addresses into discrete semi-boxes.
    My eyes are drawn to the addresses, not the content of the letter. (Also if the
    Swift field is real, try setting the letters in small caps; it'll go better with
    the hanging numerals.)"
  created: '2005-10-23 19:59:47'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "Thanks for the comments. I was going to delete the thread, as no one paid
    any attention to it at all. :/\r\n\r\n<cite>He looks disappointed,...</cite>\r\nDoes
    he? The first thing the client said was \"he looks concentrated and wise\". \r\n\r\n<cite>...
    and it\u2019s unclear what a disembodied floating head has to do with money management</cite>\r\nWell,
    this is supposed to be the face of Thomas Aquinas, and the company uses part of
    his name as well. The face itself has probably nothing to do with money management,
    but was meant to show the human side of the business.\r\n\r\nHere is an update
    variant. The \"problem\" here is the wordmark. It is too funky to go with the
    face and the whole <em>gestalt</em>, but this is what the client wants to see:
    a modified \"A\" missing the bar referencing the greek/latin \"A\". I've modified
    it even more \u2014 this detail needs fine-tuning for sure. The face still misses
    the body, though. Done in one colour.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.xtati.com/_misc/temp/L_acl_absara1.pdf"
  created: '2005-10-23 20:30:06'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>The first thing the client said was \u201Che looks concentrated and
    wise\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nLOL! The client is of course always right. Thank you
    for the explanation of the head, though. It makes sense once you see it, but I
    wonder if everyone will get it. C'est la vie.\r\n\r\n<cite>The \u201Cproblem\u201D
    here is the wordmark. It is too funky to go with the face and the whole gestalt,
    but this is what the client wants to see: a modified \u201CA\u201D missing the
    bar referencing the greek/latin \u201CA\u201D. I\u2019ve modified it even more
    \u2014 this detail needs fine-tuning for sure.</cite>\r\n\r\nI don't understand
    the missing bar part. (Yes, I understand the literal meaning of it!) Could you
    elaborate? \r\n\r\nMust the wordmark be sans? If so, I would go for something
    with a bit more entasis (of which there are an increasing number)."
  created: '2005-10-24 01:22:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201Che looks concentrated and wise\u201D.\r\n\r\nWell, constipated, maybe,
    but... wait, you said <cite>concentrated</cite>, sorry...  ;-)\r\n\r\nSeriously,
    more important than what your client thinks is what your client's clients think.
    And I'm having a tough time seeing something positive in that expression. Banking?
    Looks like a French banker accused of fraud, and trying to decide whether to stick
    with his lawyers or take the next flight to Guiana. \"Mais alors, quoi faire en
    face de ces CHIENS?!\"\r\n\r\nI think the problem is 95% that eyebrow.\r\n\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-24 01:38:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The face concept bothers me alltogether.  It is too specific to be symbolic
    but too abstract to be a specific person.  It reminds me of ads in the 1800's
    for wonder-cure medicines as in \"Dr Doolittle's Cure All Elixor\". I don't think
    this gives a sense of trust.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-24 02:35:26'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "morning!\r\n\r\napart from a good laugh, I can't say I see the same you see
    guys. Especially, when you use metaphors, relating to constipation or conspiration.
    But I do see your point \u2014 the face doesn't express what it should, or even
    worse, it expresses something what it shouldn't. My problem is \u2014 I can't
    draw.\r\nI also do not want to drop the concept \u2014 I see it as a different
    starting point for one of the trizillion companies dealing with money management.
    Hey, and it doesn't use swoosh or \"$\" sign!\r\n\r\nWhich of these two faces
    seems more appropriate to you, dezcom? One is more symbolic, the other one is
    more direct.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.xtati.com/_misc/temp/2_faces_type.pdf\r\n\r\nWhat
    is with that eyebrow, Hrant? Can you describe the problem on the technical level?
    Too wide? Too dark? Too sharp?\r\n\r\nSteve, I mean this \u2014 one of the variants
    of the initial proposal (a wordmark):\r\nhttp://www.xtati.com/_misc/temp/2_faces_type.pdf\r\n\r\nand
    I don't know how to persuade them, that one should use either a wordmark or a
    symbol, but not both simultaniously. :/ One of the partners sees the reference
    to ancient greeks, which makes him comfortable with the idea of leaving out a
    bar in \"A\".\r\n\r\nCheers."
  created: '2005-10-24 08:20:53'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Investigate a conserative serif typeface and loose the head concept. I don't
    want my investments to be treated casually. I want predictable returns on investment.
    Contempory is fine with the newest consumer goods not with financial investments.
  created: '2005-10-24 13:33:15'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I agree with the others. The guy looks pissed. And not in a good way. Your
    client may like it, but I'm not sure they're seeing the potential downside here:
    sending out letters to their clients with a pissed-off guy on the top.\r\n\r\nSince
    you're referencing Thomas Aquinas, I'd guess you're drawing from <a href=\"http://www.smom-za.org/images/thomas_aquinas.jpg\">this
    image</a>. Well, he still looks pissed off to me. How about <a href=\"http://www.pacifier.com/~belisle/images/aquinas.jpg\">this
    one</a> instead? The deeper, larger shadows would make a stronger mark that doesn't
    look quite so angry. Also, do a <a href=\"http://images.google.com\">Google Image
    Search</a> for 'WPA'. You'll see some really strong examples of burly, determined
    workers drawn by skilled illustrators in a strong, meaningful style. Russian posters
    are another good source for excellent stylized drawings of determined faces. Also,
    try searching Ludwig Hohlwein. Be careful, he did some work for the Nazis, but
    his paintings of the human face are stunning in their simplicity, contrast, and
    impact. Check out <a href=\"http://www.idesirevintageposters.com/graphicdesignimage29.html\">this
    poster for a German brewer</a>.\r\n\r\nMy specific issue with your illustration
    is that it doesn't feel solid enough. The lines are curvy but don't describe strong
    forms in the face. Half of the head is a huge black shadow, then the features
    are thin, small details. The face needs more visual unity and clarity. Notice
    the thickness of the strokes and the strong straight lines in Hohlwein's work.
    Your face mark needs this kind of refinement, and I think your client will like
    the strength of the illustration style. You can get that aggressive feeling without
    an aggressive expression."
  created: '2005-10-24 13:54:10'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Some of the problems with the face stem from the execution. The eyes should
    sit approximately at the centre of an oval like <a href=\"http://www.portrait-artist.org/basics/step-by-step.html\">this</a>.
    The jawline and the back of the head are also wrong. On the type side I am unclear
    why there should be a larger margin to the right than left and why the margins
    of the letter don't follow those of the rules at top and bottom and why the address
    and subject text blocks don't have a relationship to the text.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-10-24 14:50:19'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "Chris, you were right. <a href=\"http://www.smom-za.org/images/thomas_aquinas.jpg\">This</a>
    was the image I was redrawing from, that's right, and he doesn't look even a bit
    pissed off to me. I mean, this is not just me or the client, but my colleague
    as well (who has nothing to do with graphics) who doesn't see the pissed side...
    I don't see dissappointment or grieveness or fraud in his face. I try, and I can't!\r\n\r\nBeing
    *no* illustrator and having no graphic or art education whatsoever it's hard for
    me to do a strong, rightly proportioned face from scratch. Not all russians drink
    vodka literwise and can draw wicked propaganda posters. :) Herr Hohlwein makes
    use of shades and colors (though with a great skill), but the same technique is
    not transfarable for a logo 100% (as far as I understand). I try to use just one
    color for the shades, which is, I guess, where I fail.\r\n\r\nAnyway, before you
    think, I don't want to hear that this is bad-bad-bad, I stop. No, really, I do
    need input, but I want to explain where I am standing and why.\r\n\r\nOk. So I
    need a better executed face. I need a better proportioned letterhead http://www.xtati.com/_misc/temp/L_acl_absara2.pdf
    , and...  Well, any comments on /\\quin thing? Any suggestion on the typeface?
    My other choices were Slimbach and Century.\r\n\r\nPlease, comment more.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nA"
  created: '2005-10-24 16:07:33'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: If I sounded frustrated or unadequate, that's because I cannot drop the face
    and have little time to fine-tune it. If anybody can give some more constructive
    critique, I will appreciate it a lot.
  created: '2005-10-24 18:18:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What is with that eyebrow, Hrant?\r\n\r\nIt is/was too twisty - like the
    guy is perplexed/frantic.\r\n\r\n> http://www.smom-za.org/images/thomas_aquinas.jpg\r\n\r\nThis
    actually doesn't look pissed to me. He has\r\na hint of a smirk in his mouth (like
    the Mona Lisa).\r\nIt looks like he's thinking \"you make that move and\r\nit's
    checkmate in three, bud\". But still, not exactly\r\nsuitable for anything to
    do with banking (except maybe\r\nhostile takeovers).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-24 18:31:11'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "Okay. Cool. At least I see a direction to dig.\r\nThe guys are consultants,
    this is a B2B thing. The company actually sells software for forecasting the results
    of whatever, they do not take my money and invest them. :) So the checkmate thing
    actually suites okay (as far as I see it).\r\n\r\nAny comments on stationary?
    Wordmark?"
  created: '2005-10-24 18:36:53'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Now that you have the balance corrected it is an improvement, I wonder if
    the wordmark is too small in relation to the face and the text. I think, however,
    that the fonts that you have used are work well. Areas to work on the face are;
    an indent where the cheek meets the temple near the left eye, extend the top of
    the head (imagine that the halo in your source is worn like a cap on the back
    of the head), tighten up the jaw so he looks less jowly, include part of the neck
    at the back and possibly the ear as highlights. If you take your source file and
    convert it to cmyk, cut the magenta channel and paste it into a greyscale file,
    then increase brightness and contrast it will give you a better base to work from,
    try printing it out as large as you can while still clearly seeing the details
    and then tracing over the face then scan your trace and draw from that it might
    make life easier for you.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-10-24 19:07:11'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "okay, before you kill me, mind that I am unarmed.\r\nhttp://xtati.com/_misc/temp/aq.gif\r\n\r\n+
    more white on the left side (is 1): haven't managed to make him nicer;\r\n- still
    very curvy eyebrown, but it should stay like this, or the face looses the character
    altogether;\r\n+ ear, neck highlights;\r\n- looks older and fatter (is 1);\r\n\r\nMy
    objective was not to replicate the face of the saint. It all happened pretty accidently
    with this very face. I found this specimen to fit the goal better that the others,
    and, as I am no illustrator, I tried to redraw it and make it unique. Failed,
    I guess."
  created: '2005-10-24 21:30:18'
- author:
    name: Ray Frenden
    picture: 111080
  body: The top swoop of shadow on his forehead and the wrinkled brow of his left
    eye lose me. It just makes things look too flat. Otherwise, the first is a significant
    improvement of the drawing.
  created: '2005-10-24 21:37:14'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I just don't think your target audience will get the illustration. You are
    asking to much from your audience. Its like an inside joke. Think about who you
    are trying to communicate to.
  created: '2005-10-24 23:17:23'
- author:
    name: Ray Frenden
    picture: 111080
  body: I don't think they'll be any converting him. Either he or the client is sold
    on this despite how much we don't find it appropriate.
  created: '2005-10-24 23:23:59'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "As Kenny Rogers once said...\r\n\"You got to know when to hold \u2019em,
    know when to fold \u2019em,\r\nknow when to walk away and know when to run.\"\r\n\r\nAre
    you sure there are no other symbols or images that could represent Thomas Aquinas.\r\n(apart
    from his head)\r\n\r\nhttp://wwwhome.cs.utwente.nl/~jagersaa/Stamps/Aquinas.jpg"
  created: '2005-10-25 07:53:59'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "What is it, Dan, that you think I am asking from the audience, which it is
    not supposed to get anyway?..\r\n\r\n-----------------\r\nIt's either I don't
    communicate it right or you are trying to tell me something I don't get or the
    whole thing is being looked at somehow queer. I want to repeat again that I am
    not trying to replicate Aquinas face, I am not trying to hint directly on his
    persona, I am not trying to follow the traces of his face with an utmost accuracy
    either (<a href=\"http://wwwhome.cs.utwente.nl/~jagersaa/Stamps/Aquinas.jpg\">this</a>,
    being a good illustration, would be a catastrophy in my case). I just took a base
    face and was working from it further. I cannot stress this enough, but my goal
    is not to achieve any resemblance with Thomas Aquinas whatsoever...\r\n\r\nI am
    not sure if I should translate the whole initial presentation I did into English
    to show you how far from \"dropping the face\" we are, but I may asure you, this
    wasn't the only proposal the client has seen. There were three absolutely different
    kinds of the mark: two different types of a sign (including this face) and a wordmark.
    <a href=\"http://www.xtati.com/_misc/temp/aq_init.gif\">Here</a> is what it looked
    like in the initial presentation. And even in this poor execution it was instantly
    the winner. As you probably see now, it is not the execution or the quality of
    work by now, that has sold itself, it's the idea. Why? Because in this B2B branch
    the generic company is nothing new and nothing old \u2014 there are thousands
    of small firms, doing this and that having three dots, swoosh, pc screen or whatever
    as there mark and thousands are coming next year. This is a face-to-face <em>gesch\xE4ft</em>,
    the marketing will not be based on an extensive ad campaigns or guerilla promotions,
    but people faces, word of mouth, private talks. This is why \"a face\" and not
    something else.\r\n\r\nFinally, knowing the guys way too long and way too well,
    I am sure that they know what they are doing (how about naming themselves Blahblah
    <em>Lounge</em> GmbH and being as far from club and restaurant business as from
    the furniture production?) \u2014 they know their clientele better than we do
    altogether.\r\n-----------------\r\n\r\nThat said, I would like to encourage more
    comments on the execution of the mark (rather than the concept of the mark) and
    the stationary items, posted so far.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nA"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Wadim Kahlkopf
      picture: 111035
    body: "Hi Alexey,\r\n\r\ngenerally very fine work. Fein vom makro-\xE4sthetischen
      Gesichtspunkt gesehen. I would refine the contour of the mark, because it`s
      a bit unclean at some places by big zoom. I think it would be looks well with
      gold (money!) embossing on thick \"naturwei\xDF\" or champagne paper. The other
      idea is... is it truly right way to communicate business with \"american trash-texture\"
      style in our Germany? That`s the question. But if your customer like it, who`s
      care? In Germany it\xB4s looks rare.\r\n\r\nPS: Bist du Freelancer?"
    created: '2005-10-25 14:31:58'
  created: '2005-10-25 10:24:18'
- author:
    name: sebsan
    picture: 110914
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nI think the first face on the last .gif you posted is a clear
    improvement. The details in the mouth and nose are the way to go. However, if
    I look at it too long the dark side of the face becomes a kind of \u201C<a href=http://www.planetcnc.com/features/commandandcomedy/revolution/Balaklava.jpg>balaklava</a>\u201D.
    Maybe it needs bits of light in the right side, at least to loose the flatness.
    Sorry if what I say is not clear.\r\n\r\nSeb"
  created: '2005-10-25 12:53:08'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "\"the first\": you mean the \"traced\" picture or the \"is 1\" picture?\r\n\r\nI
    am actually looking for an illustrator to do this one for me. I'll pay, not a
    fortune, but ... we can discuss this, if someone is interested. Money transfer.
    My word. Any interest anyone? my email: human[]xtati.com\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nps.
    I've discussed this case with someone, who told me that a profil could look better
    here... Hm! Might try this out."
  created: '2005-10-25 13:57:39'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "Hey Wadim!\r\n\r\nNo, I am not a freelancer as such, but I do some freelance
    work from time to time. I was actually going to offer embossing to the client;
    and yes, on a champagne paper :) Paper Union's \"Conqueror Weiss\" or something
    in that direction$ a diamond white 100gm (or even more) stock would also do the
    job.\r\n\r\nI am really leaving my part of the illustration at this point and
    looking for someone more professional to do the face.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nA"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Wadim Kahlkopf
      picture: 111035
    body: "Alexey,\r\n\r\nprobably it could be interesting for you:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.beinert.net/portfolio/brochure/09-meditation.html\r\nhttp://213.188.131.250/design/abel/abelmanual/1_1_logo.html\r\n\r\nI
      don`t belive your really need an illustrator for this kind\r\nof work, because
      you have already done most of this head(ache). \r\nJust refine with less points
      in contour:  \r\n\r\nhttp://www.kahlkopf.com/files/refine.gif\r\n\r\nI can understand
      you thoughts about illustration. That the reason\r\nwhy I still not started
      with fox geraldy sign for my customer:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.christinefuchs.com\r\n\r\nPS:
      Do you have ICQ? I would speak gladly with you. \r\nMy ICQ: 118170422"
    created: '2005-10-25 15:47:10'
  created: '2005-10-25 14:47:50'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "With your traced sample I think you are getting somewhere, I had a thought
    that you could do without the hairline, which is looking a bit like a beret, and
    most of the shadow on the forehead and concentrate on the main distinguishing
    features of the face (eyes, nose, mouth) and tighten up the jawline a little.
    You would end up with a mark that doesn't link so strongly to the portrait that
    you took for your reference, while still keeping a contemplative icon which works
    in one colour. I admit I hadn't realised until I saw that postcard that Aquinas
    was called Aquin in German so the inference that the portrait is him will be present
    so I don't think you should go too far from the features that you have already
    drawn.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-10-25 20:37:34'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "Tim,\r\n\r\nthank you for taking your time and bothering with me.\r\nHere
    is a small update of what has happened so far. I've found a guy, who is more skilled
    in illustration than I am, who has drawn the face from scratch again. Well, of
    course he traced it first and after tweaking it and losing some details <a href=\"http://xtati.com/_misc/temp/Untitled-7.gif\">this</a>
    is were we are tonight.\r\n1 - is traced by me, actually not yesterday, but what
    I was using as a reference of some sort and dropped later, as it was too photographic
    for me.\r\n2 - is an updated version of mine, with the geometry of the face tweaked
    a bit. and though the illustrator wouldn't want to work with it and has tried
    on his own, I was trying to develop this face further. Have I succeded? Okay,
    maybe the shady side is way too shady, but has the face moved closer to the right
    geometry/proportions? I admit, it looks scared a bit, but I am sure I can remove
    that emotion. :)\r\n3 - this is what the illustrator did so far. I am not utterly
    happy with it, but I see, that we can do something nice with it. Maybe rounding
    the lower part of the image and losing some more details (while making other details
    more expressive).\r\n\r\nWhat d'you think now?"
  created: '2005-10-25 21:54:41'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "Sorry Popovich, I am confused at what you are trying to achieve here;\r\n\r\nPopovich
    wrote:\r\n\"Well, this is supposed to be the face of Thomas Aquinas, and the company
    uses part of his name as well.\"\r\n\r\nPopovich wrote:\r\n\" I cannot stress
    this enough, but my goal is not to achieve any resemblance with Thomas Aquinas
    whatsoever\u2026\""
  created: '2005-10-26 00:58:44'
- author:
    name: Wadim Kahlkopf
    picture: 111035
  body: "Alexey, the work of illustrator is defenitely better than yours. It`s hard
    to listen, but it`s so. On his work you can see the right epoch! The new chin
    and facebone is perfect... it`s from the same epoch. \r\nI would pay for it. Old
    looks like fantomas, sorry, even the old cap! And your updated version remember
    me at Aslan Mashadov. When you study the faces of different epoch you will find
    out that they was different.\r\nGood job. Illustration is neverending lerning
    process."
  created: '2005-10-26 07:22:17'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "Jem,\r\n\r\nI may have expressed myself not exact enough. I was saying that
    though the face is supposed to be that of Aquin (the guy has lived in 13th century,
    there are roughly 4 different faces to chose from), the face should not get close
    to the master image (I don't need a photographic resemblance, I need a symbol).
    It should be \"probably Aquin\", and definitely not Lincoln, Che Guevara or Bush.\r\n\r\nAs
    for the illustration: it needs more stylizing yet. And there is still a pile of
    work before we have a good profil..."
  created: '2005-10-26 09:30:25'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "While the illustrator's work is showing the face of Aquinas (based on a portrait
    that was not necessarily that accurate in the first place), it is more \"monkish\"
    than I would think is required for your client*, the cowl and hat add to that,
    I think that the area of face you chose for your image 1 is probably better in
    that it works with your modern wordmark (although I would drop the hat altogether
    for the monkish reason above). If your illustrator concentrated on that area and
    refined some of the finer details (small shade marks by the eyes and left nostril)
    so that they would print at small size I think you would be in a better position.\r\nTim\r\n\r\n*I
    might be totally wrong about that"
  created: '2005-10-26 12:19:57'
- author:
    name: WhitePepper
    picture: 111069
  body: "I prefer the new hat as it looks more like a hat than hair (the original
    designs had a look of a Hitler-esque side parting). \r\n\r\nI dont think a 'monkish'
    look is so much of a bad thing either as helps push the traditional and honest
    aspect to the company, whilst the style of which it is drawn can bee seen as the
    contemporary look you're striving for. It's certainly going in the right direction
    as far as I'm concerned. Keep us updated."
  created: '2005-10-26 15:20:55'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "update:\r\n\r\nhere is the progress for today - <a href=\"http://xtati.com/_misc/temp/Untitled-74.gif\">the
    faces</a> from the illustrator and me. okay, I haven't learnt to draw the face
    properly, but I was using all my skills to copy it from the <em>most probably</em>
    anatomically correct face of the artist. Which one seems more appropriate?\r\n\r\nI've
    answered that question for myself and have used mine (I'm really stubborn sometimes
    and may even appear rude for that matter, but normally I am nice, really :) ).
    Here are the two variants of the letterhead: <a href=\"http://xtati.com/_misc/temp/L_acl_scala_absara_1.pdf\">traditional</a>
    and <a href=\"http://xtati.com/_misc/temp/L_acl_scala_absara_2.pdf\">overdone</a>.
    The non-traditional variant has its drawbacks (like visual disbalance and total
    domination of the face), but I think I could find a solution to that (tinting
    it upto 50% or less could do the job). I just wanted to try out two radically
    different appearances.\r\n\r\nI also dropped the greek <em>lambda</em> used as
    <em>A</em> \u2014 it was getting way too complicated. I also tried Scala Sans
    for the wordmark.\r\n\r\nAny thoughts?\r\n\r\nps. Alright, if you magnify the
    letterhead upto trillion percent, you'll notice some bad curves in the face, especially
    where the dark part meets the light part. I am aware of that - it will be fixed
    later.\r\n\r\npps. I am glad I've turned to you, guys, before showing it off to
    the client...."
  created: '2005-10-26 20:51:30'
- author:
    name: Ray Frenden
    picture: 111080
  body: The one drawn by the illustrator seems closer to the 'thinking man' concept.
    Yours, while a ton better than when you first drew it, still feels a little off
    to me.
  created: '2005-10-26 21:22:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think they both look like a John Cleese character.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-26 21:31:14'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: He looks like he has a comb-over. I would say loose the face altogether. The
    "I'm an old white guy" theme just doesn't sell, and in this instance comes off
    kind of creepy.
  created: '2005-10-26 22:12:58'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "I think you need to include the shoulders as per the illustrators version,
    \r\notherwise he could be mistaken for a decapitated head.\r\n\r\nThis may not
    be helpful, but maybe an alternate view of his face is an option?\r\nCropping
    in on the face will avoid the floating/decapitated head connotation.\r\neg.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Face.jpg]\r\n\r\n(I
    just wanted to show off my new 'insert image' skills)"
  created: '2005-10-26 23:40:06'
- author:
    name: WhitePepper
    picture: 111069
  body: "I'm afraid  have to agree with 'hrant' and 'Christian robertson' in that
    there's definitely some sort of moustacheoed comb over hair-stylage going on that
    affects your illustration. I know it's not supposed to look exactly like Thomas
    Aquinas, but I'm sure it's not spposed to look like Hitler or John Cleese either.
    \r\n\r\nWhat happened to the ones the illustator drew with the proper hat?\r\n\r\nKeep
    plugging away mate - you'll get there!"
  created: '2005-10-27 00:09:13'
- author:
    name: popovich
    picture: 110254
  body: "hi everyone,\r\n\r\nbefore this thread goes into history, I am going to post
    the last (I hope) update on this topic. I want to thank timd for helping my out
    here a lot, also per email. One of the concepts without the hat is his vision
    of the face. And everyone, who contributed to the process - thanks a lot. If I
    sometimes have sounded rude or harsh - sorry for that, it wasn't meant to be so.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://xtati.com/_misc/temp/aq_all_faces.gif\">The all faces of Thomas
    Aquinas</a>. The lighter areas, particularly of the \"no-hat\" face are most probably
    not to be used in that way. But if the face will be embossed, than using this
    outline would help.\r\n\r\n+\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://xtati.com/_misc/temp/aq_ways.gif\">Three
    variants of the logo</a> (the last being hinted on by the illustrator, meaning
    that this is much more in style with the image, as any of two others, esp. because
    of the type treatment \u2014 this is the point, which I am totally negative of.
    Proove me wrong, if you think Trajan-like thing could work).\r\n\r\nI am going
    to bed early today. To get fresh before the presentation tomorrow. But I am still
    an hour or two here... and I am all ears...\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nAlexey"
  created: '2005-10-27 17:54:26'
date: '2005-10-22 20:00:26'
node_type: forum
title: ACL /

---
