---
author:
  name: Miguel Sousa
  picture: 110242
body: "I would like to share with all of you, the [[spacing]] method I used on <a
  href=\"http://www.adhesiontext.com/pdf/Calouste.pdf\">Calouste</a> <em>(PDF file)</em>,
  the typeface I designed at Reading.\r\n\r\nAfter trying out a few spacing methods
  with no success, I felt the need to devise my own system, which has proven to generate
  fairly good results (not just for me but also for other people that have used it).
  The method is definitely not an outstanding innovation, nevertheless I haven't come
  across anything exactly like it elsewhere. Basically I took advantage of [[adhesiontext]],
  the text tool I had developed earlier.\r\n\r\nI can't guarantee this method will
  work on every typeface. However I'm able to say that it made miracles on mine, as
  some could attest. Perhaps with a few adaptations it can still be useful and applicable
  in other cases.\r\n\r\nI would also want to warn that, as it will be obvious, this
  is a <strong>REALLY</strong> tedious process. Nonetheless, the outcome will most
  likely be quite rewarding, and time-saving.\r\n\r\nFinally I would like to add that
  this procedure might also help to drastically reduce the number of kerning pairs
  needed (at least that's what happened to me...).\r\n\r\n<strong>The Method Used</strong>\r\n\r\n<strong>1.</strong>
  I divided the lowercase alphabet in 3 groups, <em>bdhilmnopqu</em>, <em>acefjkrt</em>
  and <em>gsvwxyz</em>, on the assumption that:\r\n\r\na) the space on <strong>both
  sides</strong> of each element of the <strong>1st group</strong> can be determined,
  and relates to the space attributed to, at least, <strong>one side</strong> of another
  element in the same group, which has a similar shape. (e.g. the space on the <strong>right
  side</strong> of <em>b</em> and <em>p</em> is the same as <em>o</em>. Or, the space
  on the <strong>left side</strong> of <em>h</em> is the same given to the same side
  of <em>l</em>);\r\n\r\nb) the space on <strong>one side</strong> of each element
  of the <strong>2nd group</strong> is determined, and is equal to the spaces given
  to the elements of the <strong>1st group</strong> with a similar shape (i.e. the
  space on the <strong>left side</strong> of <em>k</em> is the same given to the same
  side of <em>h</em>, despite the fact that the space on the <strong>right side</strong>
  (of <em>k</em>) has no relation with any character in the <strong>1st group</strong>);\r\n\r\nc)
  the space around the elements of the <strong>3rd group</strong> has no direct relation
  with any of the other characters in the alphabet. (this is very design-dependent,
  as for example if <em>g</em> is not binocular-style, it should be included in the
  previous groups).\r\n\r\n<strong>2.</strong> I spaced <em>n</em> and <em>o</em>
  visually, balancing the white area between and inside the characters (the string
  <em>noonnon</em> is good for that). Then replicated those amounts (with the necessary
  adjustments) to the rest of the elements on the <strong>1st group</strong>, always
  keeping in mind to assign the same value to similar/equal shapes. (e.g. the <strong>left
  side</strong> of <em>m</em> might receive the same amount of the same side of <em>n</em>.
  But (for a serifed typeface) <em>p</em> might need less space on the <strong>left
  side</strong>, because it might not have a serif on the baseline)\r\n\r\n<strong>3.</strong>
  I printed a few test documents only with words that could be set using characters
  from <strong>1st group</strong>, and made the necessary corrections/adjustments.\r\nNote:
  Here I would like to say that, in this first trial, it was clear that some of the
  glyphs had to be slightly changed (specially the <em>o</em>), because they were
  \"breaking the rhythm/pattern\".\r\n\r\n<strong>4.</strong> After a *few* other
  print-outs and tons of adjustments, the elements of the <strong>1st group</strong>
  were finally acceptably spaced, so it was time to do the next step.\r\n\r\n<strong>5.</strong>
  The next step consisted on adding, sequentially, each element of the <strong>2nd
  group</strong> to the <strong>1st group</strong>, and space it against the elements
  of the <strong>1st group</strong>. This meant generating test documents with the
  set of characters <em>bdhilmnopqua</em> and space the <em>a</em>, then <em>bdhilmnopquc</em>
  and space the <em>c</em>, and so on.\r\nNote: It's very likely that the elements
  of the <strong>1st group</strong> will still need some fine adjustments along the
  way, which could also be used on characters with related shapes.\r\n\r\n<strong>6.</strong>
  The following step was simply doing the process described above, but this time with
  each element of the <strong>3rd group</strong>.\r\n\r\n<strong>7.</strong> Finally,
  I set a \"normal\" text and the overall spacing was just about right. Some fine-tuning,
  and from this point on was \"kerning time\"...\r\n\r\nThat's about it.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The proof of the spacing is in the setting. Which pages of the PDF showcase
    the spacing the best? The typeface looks lovely by the way. Has someone snapped
    it up or are you licensing it yourself? We're always on the lookout for good multilingual
    typefaces.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2005-10-23 01:10:07'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>spaced n and o visually, balancing the white area between and inside
    the characters (the string noonnon is good for that)</cite>\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve been
    doing that with l/c HOHHOOH for 30 years. Print out large proofs, hang them on
    the wall, walk away until the letters look like 12 pt, have someone adjust the
    distance between them with you shouting instructions from a few meters (or feet)
    away, and finally take a pencil and divide the space between the letters on the
    wall. That gives you the initial sidebearings for straight and round sides. That
    was the method at Do-I-Get-Sued-For-Mentioning-Berthold way back in the 70s. A
    picture with me in front of H and O is around, but not published anywhere except
    on an old FontShop xmas card which made use of the \r\nHOHOHO. If only posting
    images were easy."
  created: '2005-10-23 01:22:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "http://www.monotypefonts.com/Foundry/DesignerProfiles.asp?show=spiekermann\r\n\r\nand
    in colour... \r\nhttp://www.fonts.com/AboutFonts/DesignerProfiles/ErikSpiekermann.htm\r\n\r\ncropped
    O \r\nhttp://www.fontshop.com/features/fontmag/003/003_contents.cfm\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-23 01:26:38'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>and in colour\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nthank you, Simon. It\u2019s 2am here
    in London, and I was too lazy to check.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-23 01:41:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "No problem, hopefully you're not up watching the Word Series. ;-)\r\n\r\n&lt;--
    My latest icon is White Sox pitcher Mark Buehrle (Steve Kuhlman of Ascender swears
    he\u2019s my long lost twin)\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-23 02:03:58'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Erik - Posting images is <a href="http://typophile.com/node/15783">now activated</a>.
    Need Flash 8 installed.
  created: '2005-10-23 02:25:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"HOHOHO. If only posting images were easy\"\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spiekermann.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-23 03:10:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "HoHo's in U.S. are the staple of the American couch potato vending machine
    diet :-)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hohos.gif]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-23 03:16:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '... and Dwiggins had been doing that combination 40 years before that ...
    Chris, you are funny and I now dub thee Sir Pun-a-lot.'
  created: '2005-10-23 04:07:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "It's all making sense now... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.twinkies.com/hohos.asp\r\n\r\n\"Apparently,
    rice isn't the only San Francisco treat. The history of Hostess Ho Hos dates back
    to 1967, when a San Francisco bakery began hand-producing the Swiss-filled chocolate
    cakes elegantly enrobed in delectable confectionary coating.\" \r\n\r\n... so
    it's all part of the vast Bay Area Font Conspiracy. \r\n\r\nExactly how the Ding
    Dong vs King Dons controversy plays into this is beyond me see...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.twinkies.com/dingdongs.asp\r\n
    \r\nhttp://knightsrealm.com/archives/2004_07.html\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-23 04:43:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Miguel, I'll have to look closer at the spacing aspect of this, but for now
    I just wanted to say that Calouste is amazing. The Latin is superb and the Armenian
    is inspired*, in fact better than some of the best native designers. Shnorhagaloutioun.\r\n\r\n*
    A big smile on my face seeing that gentle incline!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-23 06:06:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Miguel, although the basic spacing procedure you describe is quite sound,
    I do note some problems in your PDF, but these are typically kerning issues. For
    instance there is too much space between the roman <em>wa</em> combination.\r\n\r\nThe
    biggest problem I have with your approach is that it seems to presume that the
    glyphs themselves have already been design and grouped prior to spacing. I space
    as I go along, and consider spacing to be intrinsic to glyph design. I don't think
    you can correctly judge the relative widths of letters without previewing them
    in words or pseudo-words, and this means that spacing has to be done <em>as part
    of glyph design</em> and not as a secondary stage after the outlines are complete.
    Calouste has many very nice features -- kudos on the Armenian --, but the r is
    a bit too wide and the s is a bit too narrow, and I wonder if this would have
    been so if you had addressed the spacing concurrently with the design of these
    letters."
  created: '2005-10-23 08:41:34'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>watching the Word Series. ;-)</cite>\r\n\r\nis that a deliberate pun?
    Do they play word sports at Microsoft?"
  created: '2005-10-23 11:22:40'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "<strong>Simon:</strong>\r\n<em>The proof of the spacing is in the setting.
    Which pages of the PDF showcase the spacing the best?</em>\r\n\r\nWell, can't
    really say. Maybe the ragged-right columns, but the paragraphs on pp. 10-11 are
    not that bad. Nevertheless you'll definitely have to print it out to see it properly.
    On screen things don't look as good.\r\n\r\n<em>The typeface looks lovely by the
    way. Has someone snapped it up or are you licensing it yourself? We\u2019re always
    on the lookout for good multilingual typefaces.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks. No, not yet.
    I'm opened to proposals. Meanwhile I'm designing more weights, small caps and
    the other needed bits.\r\n\r\n<strong>Erik:</strong>\r\n<em>have someone adjust
    the distance between them with you shouting instructions from a few meters (or
    feet) away</em>\r\n\r\nNice. This year's students should try that. It surely will
    make spacing more interactive and less boring. Besides, there will be more than
    a pair of eyes judging, which might be a good thing (or maybe not...).\r\n\r\n<strong>Hrant:</strong>\r\n<em>The
    Latin is superb and the Armenian is inspired*, in fact better than some of the
    best native designers.</em>\r\n\r\nUau, thanks! As I didn't know the script, or
    the language (which unfortunately I still don't), I had to do a substantial amount
    of research, to inform my design decisions. Then it was submitted to people that
    can actually read it, and the necessary changes were made.\r\nThere are still
    a few things that I will like to change, but the essencial is there.\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>John:</strong>\r\n<em>For
    instance there is too much space between the roman wa combination.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    you're right. I'll have to check that. (Although it's not as noticeable as when
    printed)\r\n\r\n<em>and this means that spacing has to be done as part of glyph
    design and not as a secondary stage after the outlines are complete.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    completely agree with you, and as I say in the note to point 3, the glyph outlines
    are likely to have to be changed. Otherwise certain letter combinations will never
    work, despite of how well the typeface is spaced.\r\n\r\n<em>I space as I go along,
    and consider spacing to be intrinsic to glyph design.</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely,
    can't agree more. However, one can do that once he/she is experienced, like you.
    The experience that enables one to pinpoint that the problem is on the glyph's
    design, and not on the space around it (or vice versa).\r\nSince this was the
    first typeface I designed, I felt the need to fix one of the variables (the design)
    and tackle the other (the spacing) separately. Then whenever I felt that changing
    the spacing was no longer useful, I would turn to the design and make the necessary
    adjustments. Then go back to spacing, and so on.\r\nOf course, it goes without
    saying that Gerry (Leonidas) played an important role here, telling me when I
    should put the design in stand-by, and start caring about spacing. That was when
    I approach the problem and developed the method.\r\nBut as you might understand,
    when learning typeface design, it's difficult to handle these two issues (glyph
    design and spacing) at the same. Despite of the fact that they're interdependent,
    one has to come aware of that gradually, otherwise things will end up all over
    the place. At least that's how I felt.\r\nAll in all, I simply wanted to share
    the method that worked for me. I thought that it would eventually be helpful to
    others, and, at the same time, use all your comments to improve it.\r\n\r\n<em>kudos
    on the Armenian \u2014, but the r is a bit too wide and the s is a bit too narrow</em>\r\n\r\nThank
    you. You might be right about the <em>r</em> and <em>s</em>, but this might also
    be one of those situations where the designer's experience, sensibility and/or
    views (about how the structure of a certain letter must be) enter a subjective
    and more personal area. For example, for some reason I can't really explain, I'm
    very sensitive to the <em>sa</em> combination, and will almost like/dislike a
    particular typeface just based on that. OCD (obsessive-compulsive disorder), go
    figure..."
  created: '2005-10-23 11:58:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: HHDHOHODOO, and nnpnonopoo are normal. Then the D and p, respectively, are
    replaced by whatever you are "looking to space." There is also an initial process
    of HnHing and at the end, there is an HOLA and a norv added for kerning, (HHAAAHOLA)
    to make sure nothing gets too tight...this worlks for all fonts that have H, O,
    n and o...
  created: '2005-10-23 13:06:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Miguel,\r\nSorry I missed your PDF link in the first line before (I just
    saw your Zip file).\r\nNow I see what all the fuss is about! I don't mean the
    spacing, that has already been discussed.  I mean the passion in the forms of
    the letters!  Quite beautiful--I hope to see many books set in your Calouste in
    the future.\r\nAlso, the way you presented your work is a very good tool for those
    interested in learning the nuances of type design.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-23 13:08:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For lowercase, I use: nuonubnuvnupnu first. This gives a straight-against-a-straight
    rhythm that helps me see the basic side bearings in a symmetrical space. I then
    reverse the n's and u's (unounbunvun) to see if it still holds up. I also use
    the typical \"o\" necklace.  I am new to type design so I wonder if any of you
    see a problem with this process? (Is there a madness to my method).  My basis
    comes from Calligraphy classes I took from Arnold Bank some 40 years ago.\r\nFor
    the caps, H and O necklaces (as shown by others)  \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-23 13:27:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> spacing to be intrinsic to glyph design\r\n\r\nIndeed - a critical factor,
    often ignored.\r\nTo me, even the kerning is (and maybe you meant that too).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-23 17:22:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>To me, even the kerning is (and maybe you meant that too).</em>\r\n\r\nI'll
    sometimes add kerning to preview strings in FontLab while I'm working on glyph
    and spacing design, but I'll always remove all such temporary kerning afterwards,
    and tackle kerning from scratch in a systematic way once I am happy with the glyph
    forms and spacing."
  created: '2005-10-23 17:54:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When kerning affects my glyphs, it's not in any qualitiative way,\r\nit's
    more of an \"abstract nudge\" - if that makes any sense...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-23 18:05:04'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "<strong>Chris:</strong> <em>I then reverse the n\u2019s and u\u2019s (unounbunvun)
    to see if it still holds up.</em>\r\n\r\n\u2014And how do you then translate those
    values (sidebearings) to the rest of the alphabet?\r\n\r\n<strong>John:</strong>
    <em>and tackle kerning from scratch in a systematic way</em>\r\n\r\n\u2014Do you
    mind revealing?\r\n\r\n<strong>Hrant:</strong> <em>When kerning affects my glyphs,
    it\u2019s not in any qualitiative way, it\u2019s more of an \u201Cabstract nudge\u201D
    - if that makes any sense\u2026</em>\r\n\r\n\u2014Not to me... can you be more
    specific?... please.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-23 20:47:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"And how do you then translate those values (sidebearings) to the rest of
    the alphabet?\"\r\n\r\nWith those, I have the sidebearing for every permutation
    of straight, curve, diagonal, and semi straight (left side of u, right side of
    h, etc). I only have the left ide of the a and the s and x.  They are all between
    two of the given values (n b o v).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-23 21:49:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Miguel, the thing with me is that I -generally- oppose the conventional wisdom
    of making the base spacing work \"perfectly\" without kerning, and only using
    kerning to polish things up. The main reason for this is that I feel that users
    who don't have kerning enabled aren't picky anyway; so if you can assume that
    kerning is available, you can streamline things a fair amount. Another reason
    is actually related to Armenian type design, where relying heavily on kerning,
    especially positive kerning, can save you a ton of effort - noting here that (to
    me) in Design, economy of effort is central - and the time I save NOT making \"fool-proof\"
    kernless spacing is time I can use for things that are needed more.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    in reference to what I wrote before what it boils down to is that when my black
    bodies start getting affected because of spacing considerations, sometimes this
    is \"damped\" by the eventual presence of kerning too, depending on the character
    and its probable adjacencies*. But it's not numeric, it's more... fudgy, although
    it's also iterative (of course) so subject to tweaking.\r\n\r\n* http://typophile.com/node/5106\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-24 05:45:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Miquel, my approach to kerning is to use a list of real words that show combinations
    in context, so I start with a word that include an 'aa' combination, and then
    one with an 'ab' combination, and so on. I have good lists for Latin and Greek,
    and a slightly less good one for Cyrillic (it is Russian-centric, and isn't reliable
    for other languages). Once I've done this, I extend to diacritic letters either
    using classes or simply by copying kerning, depending on the size of the project.
    After that, I do diacritic exceptions e.g. 'T\xE4' as distinct from 'Ta'.\r\n\r\nIf
    I'm working on a script for which word lists are difficult to obtain, e.g. Ethiopic,
    I use class-based kerning and make it as thorough as possible, even if this means
    including kern data for combinations that may never occur in natural language.
    I'd rather try to ensure that any combination will look good, rather than trying
    to guess what might be common or not. Nyala, which will ship with Windows Vista
    contains the class-based equivalent of more than 65,000 kern pairs. I usually
    enjoy kerning, but I didn't enjoy that! If I don't have an actual word list, I
    create FontLab preview lists that show pairs in context of regularly spacing glyphs.\r\n\r\nBecause
    almost all of my projects involve OTL tables developed in VOLT, I use Sergey Malkin's
    excellent 'kern2volt' conversion tool, which examines expanded kern table data
    and builds efficient classes based on kerning values. So my workflow is FontLab
    class kerning -> expanded (flat) kern table values* -> VOLT via kern2volt.\r\n\r\n\r\n*
    FontLab Studio 5 includes special handling for very large kern table export as
    a result of one of my extended Arabic projects that had more than 72,000 expanded
    kern pairs."
  created: '2005-10-24 07:25:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>The main reason for this is that I feel that users who don\u2019t
    have kerning enabled aren\u2019t picky anyway; so if you can assume that kerning
    is available, you can streamline things a fair amount.</em>\r\n\r\nGiven my market,
    I have to assume that large numbers of users are working with MS Word. Kerning
    is off by default (although not for complex scripts, thankfully), and most users
    don't know how to turn it on. I think such users may well be 'picky', but if they
    see a font that has bad spacing because kerning isn't on, they're not going to
    spend time finding out why this problem exists and how to turn on kerning: they're
    just going to blame the font and use a different one."
  created: '2005-10-24 07:29:34'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "I agree with John. Although MS Word users don't get everything out of their
    fonts (because kerning is not on by default), they will still get the most out
    of it, given that the font is well spaced. Glyph sidebearing values have to exist
    in the font, either we want it or not. Kerning information doesn't. So, relying
    on kerning and adding superfluous pairs to the font (and I'm not refering to the
    extra kerning data that John included for the Ethiopic font, for example), simply
    makes its size bigger, and adds more data that the applications have to deal with
    (which means it's more prone to errors and will use more resources).\r\nMy view
    is, if you can do it with spacing, don't do it with kerning."
  created: '2005-10-24 12:16:25'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Miguel: Congratulations! I came and sat in on an early critique when I was
    visiting Reading. The quality of your final project is a testimony to your hard
    work and the excellent program Gerry and crew have crafted at Reading.\r\n\r\nAll:
    A nice tool would be a database of words in multiple languages with extensive
    sorting. So you generate strings containing select groups of letters in select
    languages. Perhaps this exists already? It would be pretty easy to do if one had
    access to a multilanguage open source dictionary database.\r\n\r\nDavid Berlow:
    HnHing and HOLAing are new verbs for me. Would you elaborate on these steps? Thanks!\r\n\r\nRandy"
  created: '2005-10-24 17:18:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Most of my users (and probably most every other designer's) are on Word too.
    But I really don't see them minding slightly funny spacing. And I will note again
    that design isn't about perfection; the time one saves on not making his spacing
    \"always perfect\" can benefit the user in other ways... like starting on a new
    design!\r\n\r\n>  relying on kerning and adding superfluous pairs to the font\r\n\r\nActually,
    what I'm describing ends up with <cite>fewer</cite> pairs to arrive at like 95%
    of the quality.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-24 18:42:03'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "<strong>Randy:</strong> <em>Congratulations! [...] A nice tool would be a
    database of words in multiple languages with extensive sorting.</em>\r\n\r\nThank
    you! Have you tried [[adhesiontext]]? Does it address your idea?\r\n\r\n<strong>Hrant:</strong>
    <em>can benefit the user in other ways\u2026 like starting on a new design!</em>\r\n\r\nOr
    using another font... :^/"
  created: '2005-10-24 19:14:43'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "<cite>Have you tried adhesiontext? Does it address your idea?</cite>\r\nDuh.
    Note to self: Quit skipping over wiki links. Nothing like brainstorming a solution
    to a solved problem!\r\n\r\n<cite>It would be pretty easy to do if one had access
    to a multilanguage open source dictionary database.</cite>\r\nNote to self: Quit
    trivializing said solution when it probably took a great deal of effort.\r\n\r\nThanks
    Miguel, that is a really useful tool. Not my most graceful moment on typophile
    :-)"
  created: '2005-10-25 03:18:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"David Berlow: HnHing and HOLAing are new verbs for me. Would you elaborate
    on these steps? Thanks!\"\r\n\r\nI use large \"unkernable\" pairs, like \"rv\"
    and \"LA\" to make sure the kernables, like \"AV\" and \"ra\" do not end up \"overkerned.\"
    HnHing is to make sure, after the HOD and sometimes V are spaced, that the \"n\"fits
    nice to them, so then it can be the prime control for the l.c...clear?"
  created: '2005-10-26 13:07:05'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Yes that makes sense. Thanks.
  created: '2005-10-26 13:15:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If anyone is interested, I just uploaded a text file in my Blog area which
    has strings (necklaces) and assorted other pairings that I use to test spacing
    and kerning.\r\nHere is the link:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15898\r\n\r\nThe
    link is at the top where it makes no sense.  The explanation is at the bottom
    of the thread.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-30 17:17:51'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Miguel, the first thing that come to my mind with Calouste is that museum
    near Spain Square in Lisbon :-) I love it. And adhesiontext is a very good tool.
    I am sure I will learn something from your sample pdf sample of Calouste. Awesome.
  created: '2008-05-13 11:57:36'
- author:
    name: robarnow
  body: "I'm working on an expressive brush drawn typeface, and I need a extensive
    list of words that contain ALL possible letter pairs in the basic Latin character
    set (ideally 3 examples of each combination, so as to give a good representation).
    Does anyone know of how to do this, or have such a list? \r\n\r\nThe methods mentioned
    above are useful, but it doesn't seem they'll quite do this. \r\n\r\nIt appears
    to me that AdhesionText is useful, and but does not cover ALL possible combinations.
    While I could create overall good kerning with this tool, I might end up missing
    many combinations.\r\n\r\nThe method of listing like this \"abacadaeafag...\"
    etc. is also helpful, but realistically it's very difficult to eye how kerning
    will really look once tranlated into actual words....\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nRob Arnow"
  created: '2009-08-12 23:32:04'
- author:
    name: Fonzo
    picture: 119983
  body: thanks everyone, I was looking for some spacing help.
  created: '2010-05-17 01:59:39'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "Dear John Hudson,\r\n\r\n\r\nMy font is working on PC properly good, but
    this font is not working on Mac adobe indesign ME version some word does not join
    what problem  i develop on PC  my font extension is .otf plz how i do that my
    font is work on Mac  image describe problem.\r\n\r\nThank you john [img:sites/default/files/old-images/mac-problem_4833.gif]"
  created: '2010-09-02 11:27:23'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: Saleem, you should find an option for ligatures support, somewhere in the
    program. (I don't have it, so I don't know where it could be found).
  created: '2010-09-02 15:37:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't know about the Arabic version, but in the Latin Adobe versions for
    Mac, there is both a \"Ligature\" and a \"discretionary Ligature\" check mark
    that may need to be turned on.  The first one is under \"Character\" and the second
    one is under \"Character-> Opentype.\"\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-02 16:37:34'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: OK. Do you use unsymmetrical spacing for caps sometimes? I mean, having the
    minuscule and majuscules "well spaced" - "HnHing" can reveal a gap between H and
    n. One could leave it (and kern later), but how about trying to manage it by changing
    the symmetry axis in caps?
  created: '2010-09-03 07:40:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Saleem, a font that works in Word on Windows should work in InDesign ME version
    on both platforms. I am surprised by what you are showing, because I wouldn't
    expect this kind of problem, and have not seen this with any other fonts.\r\n\r\nI
    note also the very tight spacing between the \u0631 and \u06A9 near the end of
    the first line in the InDesign example. Is that intentional?\r\n\r\n[Marcin, Chris,
    this isn't a ligature on/off issue. The correct Arabic 'init' and 'medi\r\nshaping
    is not occurring for some letters in some situations.]"
  created: '2010-09-03 19:32:38'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "In reply to:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15794?page=1#comment-428123\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16288?page=1#comment-428035\r\n\r\nSay:
    Even Adobe Arabic does not work on InDesign correctly?!\r\nTo position themselves
    in the Arabic World,\r\nAdobe + WinSoft must digest what is explained here:\r\nhttp://www.khaledhosny.org/node/142\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-03 20:23:34'
- author:
    name: froo
    picture: 115097
  body: John, my fault - I didn't look at it carefully. Anyway, the "Mac CS4" example
    looks like it's not the font "from PC".
  created: '2010-09-04 07:47:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Thanks, John. I really need to learn more about Arabic :-)
  created: '2010-09-04 16:15:26'
date: '2005-10-22 23:07:11'
node_type: forum
title: Spacing method

---
