---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: "Many of the Greek capital characters share the same glyph form as Roman capitals.\r\nFor
  an OpenType font, where there are different character positions for Roman and Greek
  capitals, is there any reason, other than convenience, for the glyphs to be identical?\r\n\r\nIn
  typographic situations where both Greek and Latin text appear together, harmony
  may be necessary, but if that can be achieved with different versions of the common
  capitals, why not?\r\n\r\nIdeally, as with the ClearType faces, it makes logical
  design sense to start from scratch and consider the criteria for all the alphabets
  which are to be represented in a typeface. However, even then the situation still
  ends up with the usual tally:\r\nRoman caps: approx. 50 serifs\r\nRoman Lc: approx.
  50 serifs\r\nGreek Caps: approx. 65 serifs\r\nGreek Lc: approx. 15 serifs (many
  of which are \"fudged\" terminal endings)\r\n\r\nI'm including Greek characters
  in a typeface I'm working on at the moment. It's a revival of a Roman typeface with
  large serifs. Going the usual route of having common cap glyphs, there is the usual
  stylistic disparity between Greek caps and lowercase, slightly more pronounced than
  in Constantia and Cambria, for instance, but as there are plenty of other common
  stylistic elements (stroke weight, contrast and angle of stress in particular),
  it's perfectly acceptable.\r\n\r\nHowever, while remaining within the overall mien
  of the face, it would be quite possible to create a separate set of Greek cap glyphs
  with fewer serifs, and certain Greek caps could be more easily made properly Greek,
  such as Upsilon, with curved arms, rather than aping the Roman Y (in fact, Cambria
  does have this distinct form).  Delta and Phi would also benefit by fewer serifs
  elsewhere among the caps.\r\n\r\nHas this already been done?\r\nIs the disparity
  between Greek caps and lower case, in a traditional serifed face, the desirable
  norm?\r\nOr do you think the idea of a full set of different cap glyphs is worth
  pursuing? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> is there any reason, other than convenience, for the glyphs to be identical?\r\n\r\nAs
    I've said before (on Typophile, in my Spatium article, and elsewhere) there's
    actually good reason NOT to make them identical! Especially for a text face.\r\n\r\nOne
    obvious rationale for this is that the spacing is different (Greek having much
    more round forms, at least in the lc) and this should affect the black bodies
    too. Related to this is the fact that serifs are indeed not as \"authentic\" in
    Greek. And a rationale that's harder to justify but much more powerful in my mind
    is that communication depends on contrast.\r\n\r\nVeljovic's Sava (at your favorite
    font house :-) is worth looking at.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-24 19:09:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks Hrant.\r\n\r\nSava has the usual double-duty of glyphs.\r\nYes, as
    a \"calligraphic\" design with small serifs, its caps work well in Greek.\r\n\r\nBut
    is there another typeface out there with a more comprehensive set of different
    Greek caps?"
  created: '2005-10-24 19:37:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I thought Sava's \"Y\" was different in each of its three scripts.\r\nNot
    much, but still more than usual.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-24 19:41:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nI have only done one face in Greek and it was a sans but having
    grown up in a Greek-speaking household, I am of the opinion that the \"Identical\"
    part of what you are saying is a convenience which is often done but, to me, not
    to be followed.  The lowercase of the Greek is completely different than Roman
    and the Greek capitals were romanized by whomsoever has adapted roman faces to
    Greek usage.  \r\nIt makes much more sense to me to make the Greek caps Greek
    caps and not retrofit them to the roman model.  I think that the curves prevalent
    in the lowercase need something different than traditional roman caps. I don't
    feel that the roman N is quite right for Greek.  I also feel that the width proportions
    are not the same.  The roman H feels too wide; the M too vertical; the O too full.
    \ Understand that this is my personal opinion and not that of any Greek scholar.
    All of the ancient Greek inscriptions that I have seen feel narrower than Roman
    and the Roman feels too rigid. \r\nI also wonder about kerning implications as
    well as fitting of the Tonos.  There may be an advantage of fewer kerning pairs
    by making a separate Greek set of caps.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n_____\r\nI may have 100%
    Greek blood flowing in my veins, but I do not have scholarly knowledge of Greek
    writing flowing from my brains :-)"
  created: '2005-10-24 19:54:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the Roman feels too rigid.\r\n\r\nIndeed. And it's quite interesting how
    the more \"pragmatic\" Greek\r\nforms started becoming rigid from the moment of
    political conquest:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/image/s_rome3-3.gif\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-24 19:57:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">the Roman feels too rigid\r\n\r\nMatthew Carter noted that his Cadmus design
    of the 1970s was not appreciated in Greece, because its looseness made it look
    archaic.\r\n\r\nTo me, the issue is not that the Greek alphabet is naturally less
    regularized, in the lower case, than the Roman, but that it is traditionally so.
    The present day Greek sans faces are more rigid/formalized than the old serif
    faces, as is the case with Roman types, too.\r\n\r\nA severely formalized Greek
    serif face should be feasible, with or without serifs in the lower case.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-24 20:45:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> because its looseness made it look archaic.\r\n\r\nI must have missed that
    - where is that from?\r\n\r\nI always considered that Cadmus was ignored for the
    same reason that Linotype* was commissioned to make highly Latinized Greek fonts:
    a blinding desire to be \"European\", at the expense of everything else.\r\n\r\n*
    And thus Carter himself. In fact Cadmus was a reaction to that.\r\n\r\nFormalism:
    I don't know what you mean by \"feasible\", but there's the question of what formalization
    does to functionality and cultural authenticity & progress. Although I don't necessarily
    think Greek is \"naturally\" less formal, I do actually think that <cite>Latin</cite>
    can become <cite>better</cite> (for text at least) by loosening up.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-24 20:57:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">where is that from?\r\n\r\nTypographically Speaking: The Art of Matthew
    Carter, Princeton Architectural Press, 2003\r\n\r\n>what you mean by \u201Cfeasible\u201D\r\n\r\nAn
    internally-consistent design that would be acceptable to at least a few end-users."
  created: '2005-10-24 22:11:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"An internally-consistent design that would be acceptable to at least a
    few end-users.\"\r\n\r\nYou expect Greeks to agree on something? :-)\r\nI hope
    my family is not indicative of how prone Greeks are to agreeon things.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-24 22:27:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The common disparity between the Greek upper- and lowercase derives from
    different ducti, and the more traditional the ductus of the lowercase the more
    disparity there will be. Constantia is an example of a hybrid lowercase, in which
    the ductus of the lambda, pi and tau tends towards the traditional ductus, while
    many other letters are closer to the ductus of the Latin for greater harmony of
    appearance. This may be the last Greek typeface I design in this way: I'm pretty
    happy with the result in Constantia, but I'd rather work more fully with the traditional
    ductus.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure that anything can be done about the disparity with
    the uppercase. You can't apply the traditional lowercase ductus to the uppercase
    letters without making something very freakish, and you can't apply the typical
    uppercase ductus to the lowercase letters without effectively Latinising the Greek
    letters. The Greek bicameral alphabet is the result of a shotgun wedding between
    two different alphabets of independent evolution.\r\n\r\nNeedless to say, the
    lower the contrast of a typeface is, the easier it is to blend the treatment of
    upper- and lowercase Greek letters."
  created: '2005-10-25 02:08:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019m not sure that anything can be done about the disparity with the
    uppercase.\r\n\r\nNot unlike the case with Latin as well.\r\nYou sort have to
    let them be, to a large extent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 02:20:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">you can\u2019t apply the typical uppercase ductus to the lowercase letters
    without effectively Latinising the Greek letters.\r\n\r\nI haven't experienced
    that problem.\r\nI've been able to make a \"modern\" (Didot) Greek lower case
    which follows the traditional letter shapes.\r\nThe design difficulty has not
    been with the ductus, but the serifs.\r\nAs I pointed out earlier, most of the
    traditional Greek lower case strokes do not end in serifs. Therefore, a sans serif
    like Carter's Greek Helvetica has proven to be a successful proposition, because
    both cases have no serifs. So nu looks like v, gamma like y? -- that's rationalization/modernization,
    not Latinization/Westernization.\r\n\r\nHowever, a Greek \"serifed\" face is a
    bit of an oxymoron, as the lower case is going to be relatively serif free, while
    the caps are going to have lots of serifs, especially if many of them do double
    duty in the Roman alphabet.\r\nSo what I'm inclining towards now is a distinct
    set of semi-serifed Greek-only capitals, so that the glyphs for A and Alpha, B
    and Beta, E and Epsilon, etc., will all be different -- as has been done occasionally
    in the past with Y and Upsilon.\r\n\r\nI'll post a PDF when it's done."
  created: '2005-10-25 05:25:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> that\u2019s rationalization/modernization, not Latinization/Westernization.\r\n\r\nWell,
    \"internally\" you're free to call it what you like... :-)\r\nBut as far as Greek
    culture is concerned it clearly makes\r\nthings more Latin - and certain people
    (including Carter)\r\nrightly object to that.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019ll post a PDF when
    it\u2019s done.\r\n\r\nYes, god forbid not <cite>during</cite>...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 05:30:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, in my view serifs per se are completely alien to the Greek lowercase:
    there are entry and exit strokes that are properly part of the letter in most
    styles, but one shouldn't think of these as serifs. They are more like the exit
    stroke of a Latin lowercase a, which may or may not occur even in sans serif types.\r\n\r\nI
    disagree that Matthew's Helvetica is a successful proposition. For instance, I
    don't think nu should ever look like a Latin v. I don't think that constitutes
    'rationalisation', considering that there is absolutely no precendence for the
    nu to take that form. What is being rationalised? Not the form of the nu, which
    is simply being ignored in favour of a mistaken belief that the Latin v is some
    kind of homograph. It is an arbitrary decision, as if one decided that a Latin
    w should take the form of a Greek omega. I mean, \u03C9hat the f\u03C5ck?\r\n\r\nThe
    most telling problem of the old Helvetica Greek is that it <em>doesn't look like
    Helvetica.</em> If you put text in the Latin and Greek side-by-side, they have
    completely different typographic colour. This was the major impetus to design
    a new Greek for Helvetica Linotype."
  created: '2005-10-25 05:52:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " >it clearly makes things more Latin\r\n\r\nSurely that's not the way it
    would appear in Greece today, after 30 years of Linotype Greek Helvetica. I think
    the dominant perception would be of old vs. new, not Greek vs. Latin.\r\n\r\n>I
    don\u2019t think nu should ever look like a Latin v. I don\u2019t think that constitutes
    \u2018rationalisation\u2019,\r\n\r\nPaul Renner rationalized j into a straight
    line (Futura), removing the time-honored curve, and rationalizing nu into v is
    the same idea. It's that art-theory sense or rationalizing that I'm referring
    to, not implying that it is better because it is more \"logical\". I'm suggesting
    that such rationalization, as a formal procedure, is not the stamp of any one
    culture, but can afflict (if you like) any.\r\n\r\nThe \"flipped N\" form of the
    kappa appears to have become archaic, replaced by the roman form small-cap K,
    so I don't think that the traditional forms are sacrosanct.\r\n\r\n>I disagree
    that Matthew\u2019s Helvetica is a successful proposition.\r\n\r\nWhat you're
    saying is that it's incorrect, because it has proved very successful, as has his
    Verdana, again with a straight, symmetrical nu, and also with a pi shaped like
    Renner's original n in Futura!\r\n\r\nAnyway, I wasn't talking so much about success
    as determined by mass usage, but pointing out that in a Greek sans serif there
    is harmony between caps and lower case, because neither have serifs, whereas in
    a Greek \"serif\" face the lower case doesn't really have serifs, so less harmony
    there."
  created: '2005-10-25 06:29:57'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I thought one of John's comments was funny, because in my printed lettering
    I usually make my lowercase \"w\" look almost exactly like a Greek omega. But
    that aside, I largely agree with John's comments. But I also agree very much with
    Nick's final point about easier bicameral harmony with a Greek sans compared to
    a Greke serif. D'oh!\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-10-25 06:57:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, Futura is pretty much a one-off with regard to the straight j. It is
    a freak, not a new model for what the letter j looks like.\r\n\r\nWith regard
    to the form of the kappa, both shapes have been in use for some time -- indeed,
    there are plenty of examples of forms that make obvious the transition from one
    to the other --, and the appropriateness of one or the other is more dependent
    on the style of typeface than notions of archaic vs. modern. And I disagree with
    your characterisation of the second form as being a 'roman form small-cap K'.
    The second kappa form derives directly from the earlier one: the key structural
    difference is that the leg is a separate stroke, rather than a return from the
    upper right. The fact that this has been rationalised into something more like
    K in some typefaces shouldn't obscure the origins and variety of this form. [The
    two forms of kappa in the new Adobe Garamond Premiere Pro fonts are worth examining.]\r\n\r\nIf
    you are not talking about Helvetica Greek as being successful in terms of mass
    usage, I wonder in what sense you do consider it successful? I consider it successful
    <em>only</em> in terms of mass usage. I don't think it succeeds in being Helvetica,
    and I don't think it succeeds in being Greek. Further, the rationalisation itself
    is inconsistent and seemingly arbitrary: why maintain the entry stroke of the
    gamma while removing it from the nu? why treat the poor sigma as an omicron with
    a stick attached when elsewhere the relationship of adjacent straights and curves
    is handled in a way that is both more sophisticated and more characteristic of
    Helvetica?\r\n\r\n\r\nAnyway, our disagreement about the (de)merits of Helvetica
    Greek aside, I look forward to seeing your semi-serif Greek caps. This sounds
    to me like a good idea to explore, and most likely fruitful.\r\n\r\nBy the way,
    if you take a look at the MS font Sylfaen, you'll note that the Greek caps Geraldine
    Wade made for the design are different from the corresponding Latin forms. In
    that case, Geraldine found my thick Latin wedge serifs to be too massive to work
    with her Greek lowercase, so reduced the weight of them."
  created: '2005-10-25 07:43:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">It is a freak, not a new model for what the letter j looks like.\r\n\r\nI
    mentioned it as an example of rationalization/modernization.\r\nIt's immaterial
    whether it's a one-off: it is \"non-Latin\" in the sense that you portray straight-sided
    nu's as being non-Greek. Yet it works perfectly well within the context of a much-loved
    Roman typeface (whereas many of Renner's radical forms, offered as alternate sorts,
    fell by the wayside). \r\n\r\nIt's incidental that a straight-sided nu looks like
    a v -- it's a simplified form (symmetry being simpler than asymmetry, straight
    lines being simpler than curves), not a Romanized form.\r\n\r\nWith regard to
    the kappa, I was perhaps mistaken to characterize the \"small cap K\" version
    as Roman; as you point out, it is more plausible as an adaptation of the single-stroke,
    script original. But if it's acceptable to take the older form of kappa and radicalize
    its geometry into something more closely resembling a roman glyph (with the same
    sound, even), what is so heretical about a little ironing of nu?\r\n\r\nI consider
    Helvetica Greek to be succesful in integrating upper and lower case.\r\nI think
    it's successful enough in being both (as far as that is possible) Helvetica and
    Greek, although I find the alpha, omicron, sigma and rho a little too samey in
    their roundness -- but I don't think that's a cardinal sin, for the same phenomenon
    exists in the Roman geometrics (Futura again), to a far greater extent, and that
    hasn't proved detrimental.   "
  created: '2005-10-25 08:28:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">This sounds to me like a good idea to explore, and most likely fruitful.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the encouragement! And to Hrant also. I'll give it a try. "
  created: '2005-10-25 08:32:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nYour concept of the semi-serif makes the most sense to me.  With
    it you have the opportunity to make a marriage with the roman glyphs without making
    it a shotgun wedding.  \r\nWhat are your plans for the italic? Because my learning
    of Greek began during WWII and ended in the late 50s, I never saw much of Greek
    italics or ever \"got\" them.  I remember seeing old books where instead of using
    italics as we do, the roman was letterspaced (stealing sheep). The only italics
    which felt comfortable to me where more calligraphic.  I know the World has moved
    on since then (even though my schoolboy memories have not) and italic is quite
    normal for Greek in the present time. I seem to remember a version of Baskerville
    some time ago which had a Greek italic which I found unsettling at the time.  The
    Greek in the newest Adobe Super-duper Garamond Premier Pro end-all be-all, is
    quite friendly to me now though.\r\n\r\nPlease do post a sample of your new face
    when the time feels right.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-25 13:21:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Surely that\u2019s not the way it would appear in Greece today\r\n\r\nHave
    you asked? My impressions from 2002 and 2004 are the opposite.\r\nAlso: it's not
    what people manage to verbalize, it's what they feel.\r\n\r\n> It\u2019s that
    art-theory sense or rationalizing that I\u2019m referring to\r\n\r\nWhich is,
    of course, what can never work in Design.  :-/\r\n\r\n> [The Futura \"j\"] is
    a freak\r\n\r\nTo me, the entire font is a freak.\r\n\r\n> Sylfaen, you\u2019ll
    note that the Greek caps Geraldine Wade made for\r\n> the design are different
    from the corresponding Latin forms.\r\n\r\nI'm happy to hear that!\r\n\r\nSemi-serifs:
    an idea under-used even more in Latin than in Greek!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 15:59:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It\u2019s incidental that a straight-sided nu looks like a v \u2014 it\u2019s
    a simplified form (symmetry being simpler than asymmetry, straight lines being
    simpler than curves), not a Romanized form.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry, Nick, but I think
    you have to judge the old Helvetica Greek within the context of all the Linotype
    Greek designs of the early 1970s. At the time, Linotype had a virtual monopoly
    on typesetting equipment in Greece, largely due to a promise to the local agent
    that Linotype would produce Greek versions of any existing typeface requested
    by the local market (this information from Mike Parker). At the time, partly due
    to the policies of the military dictatorship, the trend in Greece was to look
    western and modern. The result was a library of highly Latinised Greek designs:
    Baskerville, New Century Schoolbook, Souvenir, Times and, yes, Helvetica. Helvetica
    is not some separate programme of rationalisation and modernism: it demonstrates
    exactly the same approach to Latinisation as the other Linotype Greek types of
    that time, only more subtly because it doesn't have serifs stuck on every available
    appendage. [By the way, at the Greek type conference in Athens in the mid-90s,
    Matthew joked about being surprised that he hadn't been asked to add serifs to
    the Helvetica Greek, since they were so much the rage.]\r\n\r\nThe Helvetica Greek
    nu, far from being 'not a Romanized form', <em>is</em> the Latin v glyph! The
    only difference is the spacing.\r\n\r\n<em>I consider Helvetica Greek to be succesful
    in integrating upper and lower case. I think it\u2019s successful enough in being
    both (as far as that is possible) Helvetica and Greek...</em>\r\n\r\nThe integration
    with the uppercase is primarily a function of the low contrast, not of letter
    construction. I think it is possible to be both <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/John/HelveticaGreeks.pdf\">Helvetica
    and Greek</a> to a much greater extent."
  created: '2005-10-25 17:16:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, try to can get a hold of \"Greek letters: from tablets to pixels\"
    (1996) which covers what John just wrote and a lot more. The [edited] transcript
    of the roundtable discussion, with the likes of J\xE9r\xF4me Peignot and Nicolas
    Barker is nothing short of illuminating. Another great reference is the proceedings
    of the 2002 conference in Thessaloniki.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, my favorite quote
    concerning the wanton rationalization/Latinization of scripts is something Peter
    Lofting once said in criticism of Frutiger's Devanagari design: \"You cannot chop
    up the curly bits.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 17:31:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nThanks for the references. I just ordered \"...Tablets to Pixels\"
    from Amazon but when I Googled \"proceedings of the 2002 conference in Thessaloniki\"
    I get every manner of thing from Physics to social and economic discussions but
    no linguistic/typography hits.  Is there a more definitive name to search or do
    you have a source for it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-25 18:46:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Chris, if you enquire about this on the ATypI member list, you'll probably
    get a response from Klimis Mastoridis at the University of Macedonia Press, who
    organise the Thessalinki type conferences and publish the proceedings. The next
    conference will be in 2007, and I thoroughly recommend attending.
  created: '2005-10-25 19:17:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nThanks very much! I'll post it to AtypI.\r\nI would love to go to
    the next conference if only I could afford to go :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-25 19:41:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">it is possible to be both Helvetica and Greek to a much greater extent.\r\n\r\nNicely
    done, but I don't think the extent is that great. Some glyphs, such as delta,
    are more authentic on both counts, but overall the retention of tiny vestigial
    \"curly bits\" on characters like upsilon strikes me as tokenism*. It is subtly
    continued throughout the Linotype version, and forms an effective stylistic theme,
    but I don't think there is anything significantly less Greek in the more ruthlessly
    modernized Carter version. In fact, the \"dubious\" flat top to the delta echoes
    his treatment of the top of xi and zeta, which to my mind is a perfectly legitimate
    design feature for all three glyphs, and in this consideration of a shared feature,
    respectfully Greek. \r\n\r\nI guess what I'm saying is that historic cultural
    authenticity is not the only game in town, and that I'm suspicious of its volkisch
    quality. It's also possible to be modern and local, or modern and international.\r\n\r\n*So
    John, as you hinted in that direction, I'm excited at the prospect of a contemporary,
    clean, Greek monoline sans from you that goes beyond tokenism, fully grounded
    in the traditional ductus. \r\n\r\n>Have you asked?\r\n\r\nNo, other than second-generation
    Greek friends in Toronto, and looking at magazines. But I'm aware of the main
    issue. It seems to me that there are functional problems today with the traditonal
    Greek letterforms, with their \"baroque\" stress, to use Bringhurst's terminology
    (i.e. stress at many angles), and a profusion of extenders -- which combine to
    create a dense, awkward text body. What to do, and who to do it, and who to decide
    on whether it's appropriate?\r\n\r\nThe forces of commerce in Greece are not afraid
    to throw out tradition and create bastard \"Latinized\" forms, if this results
    in more open, more even text color -- or use western imports to the same effect.
    On the other side of the issue are public sector traditionalists, who would like
    to educate the heretics about the error of their ways.\r\n\r\nOur frame of reference
    at Typophile seems to be faces designed for non-Greek multinationals by non-Greek
    type designers. Gerry Leonidas, a native Greek I'm assuming, has had some say
    in the ClearType Greek alphabets, but I suspect there are also other, less conservatively
    inclined Greek type designers at work.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure how important it is
    for a type designer to be indigenous, when designing \"foreign\" scripts. Type
    designers are doing multiple language encodings in FontLab now. Ideally, I'd like
    to see more indigenous type design and local typeface use, but the reality is
    that many indie foundries cater to an international web market.\r\n\r\nA little
    knowledge sets one off on a sensitive footing -- outreach by Twardoch and Bilak
    on CE diacritics has been huge -- but then the designer is on his/her own with
    regards to the degree of historicism, personality, theoretical constructs, etc.,
    that goes into the face. It helps if you can read the alphabet, and for what it's
    worth Greek is part of my cultural heritage, having studied it at school, so I
    feel a comfort level that I don't have with Cyrillic; it's unlikely I will include
    Cyrillic encoding in any of my typefaces.\r\n\r\n>it\u2019s what they feel.\r\n\r\n\"Sincerity
    is bullshit\" - Harry Frankfurt"
  created: '2005-10-25 19:51:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, John's ref is it - but let me know if you still have trouble.\r\nOh,
    and you of all people are pretty much EXPECTED to be there in 2007.  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    tokenism\r\n\r\nNo, they matter. Why wouldn't they?\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t think
    there is anything significantly less\r\n> Greek in the more ruthlessly modernized
    Carter version.\r\n\r\nExactly how do you know that?\r\n\r\n> historic cultural
    authenticity is not the only game in town\r\n\r\nI certainly agree. But ignoring
    history outright can only hurt. You have to know what \"rules\" you're breaking,
    and why. Also, by the same token \"internal artistic consistency\" isn't the only
    game in town either - in fact to me more than anything it's a succubus, at least
    in the realm of Text (very different than Display).\r\n\r\n> It\u2019s also possible
    to be modern and local, or modern and international.\r\n\r\nBut not 100% both
    - it's always a compromise.\r\n\r\n> there are functional problems today with
    the traditonal Greek letterforms\r\n\r\n?\r\nI see more of a problem with cavalier
    Modernist type designers!  :-/\r\n\r\nThe greater variance in Greek is something
    to be cherished and amplified for text work, not the other way around. Display,
    different story.\r\n\r\nBTW, if you consider actual letter frequencies rather
    than just the alphabetic set, you discover something quite surprising: Greek -at
    least in its contemporary manner of execution- has a <cite>lesser</cite> vertical
    divergence than Latin! The \"problem\" you're seeing is [due to] something else.\r\n\r\n>
    The forces of commerce in Greece are not afraid to throw out\r\n> tradition and
    create bastard \u201CLatinized\u201D forms, if this results\r\n> in more open,
    more even text color\r\n\r\nThe problem, of course, is that highly even color
    is a dumb objective (for text). And needless to say, this isn't the first time
    commerce has screwed culture.\r\n\r\nI for one am not a traditionalist at all!
    But that doesn't mean I endorse dysfunctional design... The problem you're alluding
    to is the typical association of conversative design & apparent competence, and
    progressive design & failed experiments; but the conservatives only ensure decent
    -but never superb- functionality through mimickry, while the reason the progressives
    create so much dysfunction is simply that progress is much harder to pull off!
    Because they don't understand the underlying mechanisms of scripts and reading
    (the same as most conservatives). So the two sets are not <cite>inherently</cite>
    linked - it's merely a generally-valid association.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m not sure
    how important it is for a type designer to be indigenous\r\n\r\nAs I said in my
    Spatium article, nativity is not required for making decent fonts, but it is a
    requirement for marking progress in that script; this is because there is an -incommunicable-
    understanding, an immediate feeling of right/wrong that comes through the subconscious,
    through extended exposure at a young (i.e. receptive) age, something that cannot
    be formally taught.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 21:24:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Oh, and you of all people are pretty much EXPECTED to be there in 2007\"\r\n\r\nI
    will see if that matches up with my wife's expectations :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-25 22:09:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">> tokenism\r\n\r\n>No, they matter. Why wouldn\u2019t they?\r\n\r\nThat's
    exactly my point -- either include them or leave them out, but don't just keep
    them as a nod to tradition, as small apolegetic twiddles, but make them a strong
    feature. \r\n\r\n>> I don\u2019t think there is anything significantly less Greek
    in the more ruthlessly modernized Carter version.\r\n\r\n>Exactly how do you know
    that?\r\n\r\nPay attention -- I explained it with regards to the flat-topped delta,
    xi, and zeta.\r\n\r\n> ignoring history outright can only hurt.\r\n\r\nUsually.\r\n\r\n>>
    there are functional problems today with the traditonal Greek letterforms\r\n\r\n>?\r\n
    I see more of a problem with cavalier Modernist type designers!  :-/\r\n\r\nWell,
    if they have the push of a foreign multinational as was the case with Linotype,
    yes. But surely you will admit that there is also a pull from Greek typographers,
    especially in commercial publications, away from the traditional forms, just as
    there has been in the west.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.raissaki.com/pages/somethoughts.html\r\n\r\n>The
    greater variance in Greek is something to be cherished and amplified for text
    work, not the other way around. \r\n\r\nThe variance I mentioned was in angle
    of stress -- my feeling is that if you have a lot of that (especially in a high
    contrast face, and why shouldn't that be part of the Greek typographer' paintbox?)
    things can get too jazzy, compounded by the absence of serifs to infer a calming
    baseline. I thought you were a fan of the powers of serifs....\r\n\r\n>an -incommunicable-
    understanding, an immediate feeling of right/wrong that comes through the subconscious,
    through extended exposure at a young (i.e. receptive) age, something that cannot
    be formally taught.\r\n\r\naka WRBWWRM."
  created: '2005-10-25 22:10:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, it's really the perfect summer vacation, especially if you take time
    before or after the conference for a Halkidiki trip (which doesn't have to be
    expensive at all). Not that there's nothing to do in Thessaloniki - it's really
    a wonderful, charming, \"multi-historic\" city - even nicer than Athens (especially
    in the summer, when the tourists make Athens unbearable).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 22:12:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> make them a strong feature.\r\n\r\nYes, please do that instead.\r\n\r\n>
    I explained it with regards to the flat-topped delta, xi, and zeta.\r\n\r\n?\r\nThat's
    related to your \"internal artistic consistency\", and\r\nnot related to what
    Greeks need. People like their cultures.\r\n\r\n> if they have the push of a foreign
    multinational as was\r\n> the case with Linotype, yes. But surely you will admit
    that\r\n> there is also a pull from Greek typographers, especially in\r\n> commercial
    publications\r\n\r\nI thought I already admitted that before. In fact natives
    often cause more harm than the foreigners. As for the Linotype thing, it seems
    they didn't do much pushing at all - the fiasco was mostly the Greeks' doing:
    they explicitly and forcefully asked for those frankensteins. And it's notable
    that -as I said, I don't know if you noticed- Cadmus was a direct reaction to
    this idiocy.\r\n\r\n> The variance I mentioned was in angle of stress\r\n\r\n1)
    You also mentioned the extenders.\r\n2) There's no reason to believe that a <cite>reader</cite>
    -not at all the same thing as a \"viewer\"- can't handle stress variance.\r\n\r\n>
    paintbox\r\n\r\nOnce again: a typographic layout is not a tableau.\r\n\r\nBut:
    too much stress is anti-reading anyway.\r\n\r\n> I thought you were a fan of the
    powers of serifs\u2026\r\n\r\n1) I don't think they do anything relevant to the
    baseline.\r\n2) I'm also a fan of other things, which I like to balance.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing I'm not a fan of though is including/excluding\r\nserifs/contrast/etc. just
    to achieve pretty, dumb shapes.\r\n\r\n> aka WRBWWRM.\r\n\r\nSorry, not even close.\r\nNothing
    replaces a good understanding of the human reading \"firmware\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 22:27:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> Once again: a typographic layout is not a tableau.\r\n\r\nDamn those artsy
    modernists.\r\n\r\n\r\n>That\u2019s related to your \u201Cinternal artistic consistency\u201D,
    and\r\n not related to what Greeks need. \r\n\r\nYou seem awfully sure of what
    people need. Yes, there is internal consistency in those flat-topped glyphs: do
    Greeks have a cultural aversion to consistency?\r\n\r\n>People like their cultures.
    \r\n\r\n..but not necessarily fossilized."
  created: '2005-10-25 23:47:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But surely you will admit that there is also a pull from Greek typographers,
    especially in commercial publications, away from the traditional forms, just as
    there has been in the west.</em>\r\n\r\nThat pull has been there for thirty years,
    and during that time there has been almost no original type design within traditional
    styles in Greece.  The Greek Font Society has made some revivals of historical
    types, and there have been a few other examples of more cursive designs, but the
    majority of fonts for sale and seen in use are decidedly non-traditional and most
    often Latinised. What you seem to be characterising as a new dynamic is, in fact,
    three decades old and, in my opinion, quite tired.\r\n\r\nIf I had to identify
    a current 'pull' or dynamic, I would actually say that it is in the opposite direction,
    but not in a ideological way. Both within and without Greece there are now type
    designers who are engaging creatively with the traditional forms again, and in
    the process revisiting assumptions of the past few decades about e.g. what a sans
    serif Greek type should look like. I'm not sure what your point was in linking
    to Natasha Raissaki's thoughts on the question, but she seems to agree with me:
    'In this case, the substitution of greek letters with latin ones is no way an
    evolution but rather a violation (and of course a remnant of the Linotype/Monotype
    diffusion of greek latinised typefaces back in the 80's -a mistake now partially
    ammended)' -- citing specifically the design and redesign of Helvetica Greek in
    her footnotes."
  created: '2005-10-26 00:15:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You seem awfully sure of what people need.\r\n\r\nSure? Never. More concerned
    about the user than my own artistry? I try.\r\n\r\n> do Greeks have a cultural
    aversion to consistency?\r\n\r\nNo. But I do believe that humans actually have
    one to Modernism.\r\nAnd consistency for your own sake? Only you need that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-26 00:18:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> I\u2019m not sure what your point was in linking to Natasha Raissaki\u2019s
    thoughts on the question,\r\n\r\nShe documents the \"pull\" away from traditional
    forms, and shows an interesting example of latinized text from a popular daily
    paper.\r\n\r\nIf the pendulum is now swinging away from indiscriminate modernism,
    with it's quick-fix latinism, towards a more historically sensitive form of progress,
    I'm all for that.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-26 01:03:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> interesting example of latinized text\r\n\r\nSome people think it's more
    sad and dumb than interesting.\r\n\r\n> towards a more historically sensitive
    form of progress\r\n\r\nTo me that -generally- doesn't lead to progress at all
    (except by dumb luck).\r\nAnd no, that and \"indiscriminate modernism\" are not
    the two only options.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-26 01:18:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Some people think it\u2019s more sad and dumb than interesting.\r\n\r\nSome
    people are narrow-minded pedants."
  created: '2005-10-26 23:45:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>To me that -generally- doesn\u2019t lead to progress at all (except by
    dumb luck).</em>\r\n\r\nThere you go with your 'dumb luck' again. Nick specifically
    referred to 'a more historically sensitive form of progress'. I would prefer 'historically
    informed'. In either case, the emphasis is on knowledge over ignorance, and what
    one does with that knowledge -- how one combines it, for instance, with other
    information, intuitions and ideas in the design of new types -- is not a matter
    of dumb luck. No one is advocating a purely historical revival approach to Greek
    type design. The immediate programme of the Greek Font Society to date has been
    one of revival: but that should be seen in the context of digital font making
    as cultural preservation, not prescriptive for new designs. When designers like
    Natasha speak of a need for historical understanding as a corrective to a short-sighted
    and largely amnesiac view of Greek letters informed by the graphic design media
    of the past thirty years, I think they mean no more than that. I see it fundamentally
    as a call for the expansion of options in Greek type design and typography, and
    an opening up of discourse to include the past as an active agent."
  created: '2005-10-27 01:19:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What I'm saying is simply that looking back can't originate ideas for moving
    forward. That said, historicity can certainly be tamed and combined with other
    things, and result in something progressive; but it's still not historicity doing
    the forward pushing.\r\n\r\n> historical understanding as a corrective\r\n\r\nThat's
    fine, and needed.\r\nBut not \"progress\".\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, I have a smashing
    idea: I think you two Brits should talk\r\nto each other a little bit about pedantry
    versus hooliganism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 01:55:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Aren't they both Canadian?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-27 02:53:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What I\u2019m saying is simply that looking back can\u2019t originate
    ideas for moving forward.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, that's simply untrue, and you have
    the entire renaissance to prove it. Looking back is often the start of something
    new, especially when one has reached a dead end or experienced a decline. Progress
    often takes the form of synthesis, which may involve one or more 'historical'
    strands. I think your concept of progress is too narrow and dogmatic."
  created: '2005-10-27 07:28:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think you're seeing something in looking back that's not there. The ability
    of looking back to <cite>trigger</cite> progress is certainly there; but the real
    spark comes from the person doing the looking, in the present, looking forward.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 15:11:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sometimes Grasshopper, when you see the past as the future, \r\nyou end up
    in the present :-)\r\n\r\n ChrisL\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kungfu_1.jpg]"
  created: '2005-10-27 16:07:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ha\xEF.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nMore:\r\n1) Append to my previous post: \"And reviving
    things from the past is not progress\"; at most it's merely corrective, and often
    it's plain regressive.\r\n2) And two \"negative\" things the past is useful for:
    avoiding mistakes; and finding a precedent for an idea <cite>after</cite> you
    have it. For example I've wanted to make the \"2\" in OS nums ascending for a
    while now, and the other day I found a precedent (in Joanna) that I can now use
    to say \"ha, you see, it's been done before, and by a master!\" :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 16:58:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\u201Cha, you see, it\u2019s been done before, and by a master!\u201D\r\n\r\nThank
    God! You have been able to save yourself from the jaws of inovation just when
    you thought you were trapped :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-27 17:13:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Aren\u2019t they both Canadian?\r\n\r\nI've lived in Toronto since 1977,
    except for a recent year back in the UK, to which I may return in future, but
    when and for how long I don't know.\r\nI became a Canadian citizen in 1990.\r\nCanada
    and the UK allow dual citizenship, and I have both.\r\nIs it like that with you
    Hrant, or did you have to choose between being a US citizen or an Armenian citizen?
    \r\n\r\nCanadians aren't big on identifying themselves by hyphenation, with the
    exception of the old French/English distinction, which goes back to the country's
    roots. The term Anglo-Canadian usually means an English-speaking Canadian, as
    opposed to a French-speaking Quebecer or Acadian. So to call me an Anglo-Canadian
    would have nothing to do with where I was born, only with my mother tongue.\r\n\r\nSo
    you can consider me a Brit, if you think that one's native culture is what determines
    one's nationality/culture, or you can call me a Canadian, if you think that where
    one has lived one's adult life is what counts. But really, the distinction is
    specious, and shame on you Hrant for stereotyping and mocking John and I in such
    a manner."
  created: '2005-10-27 17:50:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Pardon me, I failed to note that one is not allowed to refer to where Nick
    spent his formative childhood, because Nick is the best -and only- citizen of
    the Gloriously Pretty Ethereal Kingdom of Shinnistan. Verily, Nick <cite>is</cite>
    Shinnistan. And it is an island Luminous and Eternal.\r\n\r\n> shame on you\r\n\r\nKeep
    your shirt on. Unless it's a Performance Art thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 17:59:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Keep your shirt on. Unless it\u2019s a Performance Art thing.\r\n\r\nI am
    keeping my shirt on, which is why I'm refraining from making \"clever' remarks
    about Armenians, Americans, or Armenian-Americans."
  created: '2005-10-27 18:06:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Pardon me, I failed to note that one is not allowed to refer to where Nick
    spent his formative childhood, because Nick is the best -and only- citizen of
    the Gloriously Pretty Ethereal Kingdom of Shinnistan. Verily, Nick is Shinnistan.
    And it is an island Luminous and Eternal.\r\n\r\nF*** you too, asshole."
  created: '2005-10-27 18:11:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "...and on a lighter note; The hurricane season is in such dire need for new
    names for storms that they have delved into the Greek alphabet.  I understand
    they are Beta testing storms right as we speak.\r\n\r\nYour reporter is Chris
    Lozos, Greek/American--weather he nose it oar knot.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-27 18:29:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well, I tried doing a set of different Greek caps, but it didn't work out.\r\n\r\nThe
    reason is due to two factors.\r\nFirstly, this is a mid 19th-century revival face
    I'm working on, and semi-serif and alternate forms look anachronistic. I think
    it may have been possible if the underlying premise of the typeface were more
    non-standard.\r\n\r\nSecondly, there is the frequent context of mixed-alphabet
    use.\r\nOften, Greek text includes phrases in Roman. This isn't scholarly use,
    as one might find the other way round, but vernacular.\r\nIn these situations,
    there are characters such as Alpha, Beta, Epsilon, Mu, Nu, etc., which have the
    same alphabetic form, and sound, in both languages. So it looks odd to see them
    with slightly different glyphs.\r\n\r\nI also found that making Greek capitals
    with smaller/fewer serifs lessened the weight of the Greek setting too much, it
    looked like a lighter weight of the Roman. The Greek lower case setting, in its
    basic shapes, may be comparable to Roman in the amount of \"ink\" it uses*, but
    serifed Roman text uses much more. However, the use of Roman caps in Greek text
    serves to \"standardize\" the weight of the text against its Roman counterpart,
    when they are in proximity.\r\n\r\n*I double-checked Hrant's point about Greek
    extenders being less prevalent than Roman, due to letter frequency, but it's incorrect.
    In any significant amount of typical text, the ratio of x-height \"ink\" to extender-area
    \"ink\" is comparable to Latin. beta, xi, phi (in some forms), psi (tho' infrequent)
    and zeta have both extenders and descenders, while theta and beta have, in effect,
    two ascenders. There is also tonos action in the extender area."
  created: '2005-10-27 19:35:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it looks odd to see them with slightly different glyphs.\r\n\r\nAs Victor
    Gaultney would tell you, that's not \"odd\", but\r\nbeneficial, if only in Text
    - again, not the same as Display.\r\n\r\nOr maybe your difference is too slight?
    (See end.)\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s incorrect\r\n\r\nMy claim is based on letter-frequency
    data from an academic institution in Greece (I forget the name - I can dig it
    up), using a large and varied corpus. As opposed to being based on a necessarily
    highly deteministic two-minute casual observation of a small amount of text (probably
    in one given font). If you like I can show you the illustration I used in Thessaloniki
    (and Beirut? I forget), where it's pretty clear Greek text is less extendered.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, yes, diacritics in polytonic might shift the balance to equality (in the
    same way that Polish and English share a [base] script but the former looks -slightly-
    bigger). But since diacritics are generally smallish things, it's unlikely they
    make a huge difference.\r\n\r\n> comparable to Latin\r\n\r\nPreviously you had
    said it was a \"profusion of extenders\".\r\nBut I'm glad you've now looked beyond
    the bare alphabetic set.\r\n\r\nAlso: you can compensate for \"ink\" (better:
    color) by thinning\r\nor thickerning the strokes instead of fooling with structure.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    it would be useful for you to actually show some of this stuff.\r\nMaybe other
    people will draw different conclusions?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 20:16:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But since diacritics are generally smallish things, it\u2019s unlikely
    they make a huge difference.</em>\r\n\r\nThe diacritics in polytonic text certainly
    make a huge difference. Remember that breathing and tone marks are frequently
    combined into two-mark groups that have a considerably visual presence. Also,
    the terminals of the zeta, ksi and final sigma, while not descending so far as
    the other extenders and so, perhaps, not counted in descender frequency data,
    contribute to an overall busyness beyond the x-height region.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    in traditional highly-ligatured Greek text, there is even more stuff going on
    outside the x-height; indeed, one can question whether it makes sense to talk
    about the x-height as any kind of dominant zone, rather one can identify multiple
    levels of vertical alignment. Even in some modern Greek type designs, the length
    of ascenders and descenders may vary in ways that they do not in Latin text."
  created: '2005-10-27 21:39:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">letter-frequency data from an academic institution in Greece\r\n\r\nI'm
    not questioning that, but the interpretation of it.\r\nWhereas most Roman extenders
    are just straight lines, mostly vertical, Greek extenders occupy more of the extender
    area, with more complex shapes.\r\nYou have to take into account that beta, xi
    and zeta have both ascenders and descenders, and that theta and beta have \"double'
    ascenders, whereas the nearest to that amount of presence up top in Roman is the
    top of the f.\r\n\r\n>BTW, it would be useful for you to actually show some of
    this stuff.\r\n\r\nI'd prefer to not show work that I'm not satisfied with.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 22:58:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Looking at the few Greek newspapers I picked up last year*, the diacritics
    are quite scarce, and small. It would be nice to have stats on them (and get a
    good idea of how big/small they typically are) but lacking stats, I don't see
    how their impact can be \"huge\".\r\n\r\n* The type of thing Nick likes to rely
    on, no?\r\n\r\n> the interpretation of it.\r\n\r\nThe interpretation comes not
    from looking at the raw numbers, but from a nice \"Tuftian\" visualization. This
    visualization inherently accounts for shape complexity, having both ascenders
    and descenders, and whatever else.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019d prefer to not show work that
    I\u2019m not satisfied with.\r\n\r\n1) You don't think other people could possibly
    see fruitful things in your attempts that you might be missing?\r\n2) How can
    we [dis]agree -for example that mixing close forms is \"odd\"- without seeing
    anything?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 23:08:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">one can question whether it makes sense to talk about the x-height as any
    kind of dominant zone\r\n\r\nThe \"kappa-height\" IS dominant in Greek, but it
    is not as clearly defined/suggested as in Roman. Greek extenders are not typically
    standardized in length (except in large kappa-height sans faces like Helvetica),
    although there is more \"visual aligning\" than actual same-heightness, due to
    the variety of terminals and shapes.\r\n\r\n>a nice \u201CTuftian\u201D visualization.\r\n\r\nWell,
    that's the way you see it. \r\nLacking statistical information on relative ink
    coverage in the extender zones of Greek and English, we'll have to agree to disagree.\r\n\r\nBut
    anyway, the reason I brought this \"extender presence\" concept up was secondary,
    as part of pointing out the difference in relative Greek-Roman lower case weight
    that exists between serif and sans serif.\r\n\r\n>You don\u2019t think other people
    could possibly see fruitful things in your attempts that you might be missing?\r\n\r\nQuite
    possibly, but some people would be more inclined to sh*t all over them, so I'll
    pass on that, thanks.\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 23:38:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nI am sorry for your frustration.\r\nTo me, the x-height in Greek
    is not as strong as latin because there are fewer horizontal constants and the
    acenders and decenders are less regular. Latin is mostly straight lines up or
    down. Greek curves and swings in a manner not regular as pattern. Greek always
    looks more organic as well (it's all the curly bits). All of this makes me want
    to design a Greek typeface and then adapt the latin afterwards just to see what
    I could learn from Helenizing English :-) \r\nI don't know how similar a rythm
    and color you can expect from the two scripts. Russian is a problem as well.  It
    always looks like small caps.\r\n\r\nKeep plugging away, hope to see some test
    prints from you when you are well, almost satisfied :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-27 23:43:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> that\u2019s the way you see it.\r\n\r\nWell, of course - but you haven't
    even seen what I'm\r\ntalking about, so how could you be sure you disagree?\r\n\r\nAnd
    you certainly don't need hard numbers all the\r\ntime to see what's right in front
    of you, do you?\r\n\r\n> secondary, as part of pointing out the difference\r\n\r\nI
    don't think such differences are secondary at all. A script's\r\nideal vertical
    proportions are a very important key in ensuring\r\ngood functionality. You should
    read my Spatium article.\r\n\r\n> some people would be more inclined to sh*t all
    over them\r\n\r\n1) Maybe the smell will wake you up.\r\n2) You can always ask
    certain people (certainly me) not to give feedback (as long as you do it in-thread).
    As I've promised before, I will honor that - it's part of my responsability to
    Typophile.\r\n\r\nBut anyway, I think I know the real reason you don't show your
    work-in-progress; it's related to why you never offer help in the crits, and why
    you exploded in that Matrix remix thread, but not related to other people's behavior
    (which would imply you have little confidence in your work, which we all know
    cannot be true).\r\n\r\n> makes me want to design a Greek typeface and then adapt
    the latin afterwards\r\n\r\nWhich is exactly something Michail Semoglou has done,
    with great results.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-28 01:39:03'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "> <em>Russian is a problem as well. It always looks like small caps.</em>\r\n\r\n
    \  ..."
  created: '2005-10-28 01:58:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maxim,\r\nI should have said Cyrillic instead of Russian to begin with. My
    intent was to make the point that when you have mixed scripts within a line of
    text, the nature of the scripts makes it difficult to maintain color.  \r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maxim Zhukov
      picture: 110611
    body: I know... Sorry, I've overreacted.
    created: '2005-10-28 02:13:54'
  created: '2005-10-28 02:11:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In fact, thanks largely to ol' Peter, Latin and\r\nCyrillic intermixed can
    often be too homogenous.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-28 02:15:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Looking at the few Greek newspapers I picked up last year .... I don\u2019t
    see how their impact can be \u201Chuge\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nNote that I was specifically
    talking about polytonic: triple the number of accent/tone marks as monotonic,
    plus two breathing marks, and combinations both vertical and horizontal. Take
    a look at <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/John/GreekComparison.pdf\">this comparison</a>
    of unaccented Greek text, monotonic and polytonic. The impact of the marks on
    the busyness of the extender regions can be considerable, although obviously depends
    to a large extent on the content of the text. For my comparison, I tried to choose
    a passage with what seemed an average number of accents of each kind; other passages
    might have more or fewer.\r\n\r\nFinally, of course, the impact of the marks and
    extenders depends to a large degree on the proportions of the typeface. I have
    two Greek New Testaments using non-ligatured types: one published by the German
    Bible Society in 2001 and one printed by John Baskerville in 1763. In the former,
    the type has a very large 'kappa-height' (nice term, Nick, thanks), and the relative
    visual impact of ascenders, descenders and marks is quite mild. In the Baskerville,
    the extenders are much longer and the marks are larger and also situated further
    away from the letters, producing a greater visual impact.\r\n\r\nNote, Hrant,
    that I am not disagreeing with your observation that the frequency of extenders
    in Greek text is smaller or comparable to that of Latin text, depending on content
    and mode of text. I'm merely trying to accurately describe the visual impact of
    the marks in the extender space that, along with the relative complexity of the
    Greek extender forms, may contribute to a sense of busyness that even a greater
    number of the simpler Latin extenders does not produce.\r\n\r\n\r\nNick, when
    I questioned the visual dominance of the kappa-height, I was specifically referring
    to the heavily ligatured Byzantine cursive style, in which not only do letters
    vary in relative position to each other but may be stacked, subjoined or superjoined
    vertically."
  created: '2005-10-28 02:36:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">And you certainly don\u2019t need hard numbers all the\r\n time to see what\u2019s
    right in front of you, do you?\r\n\r\nExcept that when I make observations based
    on direct experience, you accuse me of being \"highly deterministic\" -- it's
    like whatever I say you will argue with on principle.\r\n\r\n>You should read
    my Spatium article.\r\n\r\nHrant, I think you're an idiot who doesn't have a clue
    what he's talking about, why would I waste my time reading your article? In fact,
    I don't know why I bother arguing with you on Typophile."
  created: '2005-10-28 05:20:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Determinism is just dandy - I rely on it often; but this does not imply ignoring
    empiricism. It should be obvious: when you have letter frequency data (not surprising),
    you rely on it (if not blindly); when you don't have \"extender-weight\" data
    (not surprising), you don't look the other way or start hallucinating things,
    you use your eyes and brain. Is this so hard?\r\n\r\nYour initial perception of
    the extenderness of Greek was off, by your own (indirect) admission. If you had
    paid attention to linguistic data, it wouldn't have been. In fact, even if you'd
    just done you little data-free determinism in advance, your perception would have
    been more accurate. All you had done -before I complained- was to look at the
    alphabetic set* (and I suspect only see what you wanted to see). Also, if you'd
    simply taken up my offer to show you the visualization, maybe you'd understand
    that aspect of the issue earlier too.\r\n\r\n* BTW, try that with Latin and you
    end up with a major flaw: descenders longer than ascenders.\r\n\r\n> why would
    I waste my time reading your article?\r\n\r\nMaybe because Klimis Mastoridis (the
    organizer of the Greek type conferences) liked it enough to re-publish it in Hyphen?
    Let's see if you can follow this logic: you're making Greek type; Greek type conference
    people spend money for me to go there and speak - not a huge deal, but if I'm
    a clueless idiot they must surely be doubly so; so maybe you should be paying
    attention, instead of flaunting your ego-blinders?\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nThis thread
    is driven by your desire to impose your artistry on the Greek script, with everything
    else (history, readability, what Greeks outside of your souvlaki buddies in Toronto
    might need, etc.) seemingly circumstancial, or somehow magically becoming folded
    into your preordained direction. Maybe it's a bit brutal (although it's you who
    lost the stiff upper lip earlier) but it's not crazy to suggest that this is Ungood
    Design.\r\n\r\nIn contrast, even though I think you're lacking huge chunks of
    important insight into type design, and even though your character is unappealing
    to me personally, I still pay attention to what you say and do. Is this because
    I think you are better than me? In fact all this reinforces my view of the opposite.
    Nonetheless, if I were to ignore you, that would be a loss for me. Instead, I
    persist in assimilating you. Think of me as your personal Borg.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-28 06:08:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Take a look at this comparison\r\n\r\nThe newspapers I'm looking at seem
    to be like the third column.\r\nSo you're saying they use \"incorrect spelling\"
    - for real?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-28 06:26:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The newspapers I\u2019m looking at seem to be like the third column.\r\nSo
    you\u2019re saying they use \u201Cincorrect spelling\u201D - for real?</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    no, no. <em>My</em> example is pseudo-monotonic, because what I did was remove
    all diacritics except the <em>oxia</em> from a <em>koine</em> text, thereby emulating
    the appearance of monotonic text with a <em>tonos</em> mark. But this is not true
    monotonic text, because I wanted to maintain the same spelling as in the polytonic
    text with which I started. Between the polytonicised <em>koine</em> text and modern
    monotonic are at least two major spelling changes in Greek and overall almost
    2,000 years of linguistic evolution.\r\n\r\nIf one wanted to do a comparison involving
    true monotonic text such as one might find in a newspaper, one would have to work
    in the opposite direction from my example: beginning with the monotonic, and applying
    the other marks based on the rules for polytonic tone and breathing accents."
  created: '2005-10-28 07:05:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Let\u2019s see if you can follow this logic: you\u2019re making Greek
    type; Greek type conference people spend money for me to go there and speak -
    not a huge deal, but if I\u2019m a clueless idiot they must surely be doubly so;
    so maybe you should be paying attention, instead of flaunting your ego-blinders?</em>\r\n\r\nHrant,
    I think it is only fair to point out that you were not speaking in Thessaloniki
    about Greek type. You were invited to participate in a panel discussion on legibility/readability,
    to which I appreciate your contribution. I thought your additional presentation
    on ligatures was an opportunity missed, though: you didn't seem to have much to
    say about this rich topic, other than that we should 'show ligatures some respect',
    and you bizarrely missed the obvious opportunity to discuss the Greek ligature
    tradition, which is one of the richest in the world.\r\n\r\nWhich is not to say
    that I agree with Nick that you are an idiot, only that I didn't find your performance
    in Thessaloniki to be relevant to this discussion."
  created: '2005-10-28 07:20:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In 2002, I spoke about Latinization, with a partial focus on Greek. And when
    my time ran out and I started using up the coffee break period (after asking people
    to feel free to leave) I noticed that more of the Greeks than the nons stuck around;
    and during the Q&A they asked me questions related to Greek type.\r\n\r\nIn 2004,
    I tried to bring in a Greek angle whenever it wasn't artificial to do so, but
    you're right that my Ligatures talk lacked focus. On the other hand: I did suggest
    that the richness of the archaic Greek multi-ligatures (shown in my Granjon slide)
    should to some degree be revived; and mostly I was just trying to get people to
    snap out of seeing ligatures as affected aesthetic devices. In Beirut Adam told
    me that talk was crap. :-)  On the other hand two people thought it was interesting
    enough to tell me so afterwards, unprompted. But I confess, I should have done
    better.\r\n\r\nLastly, in the Spatium article which will be reprinted in Hyphen,
    the Greek script has the most mentions.\r\n\r\nSo I can't be certain, but over
    these 3 years I think a suspiciously high proportion of people who are interested
    in Greek type don't think I'm a clueless idiot. Anyway, I'm certainly not saying
    everybody should automatically believe everything I say! But when somebody refuses
    to listen to <cite>anything</cite> I say, and thinks that reading a not-too-long
    essay that's been published in one magazine and will be published in another is
    a waste of time, I think the chances are he's simply ego-constipated.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-28 07:56:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">You can always ask certain people (certainly me) not to give feedback (as
    long as you do it in-thread). As I\u2019ve promised before, I will honor that
    - it\u2019s part of my responsability to Typophile.\r\n\r\nThanks Hrant, in future
    could you please not contribute to any threads that I start."
  created: '2005-10-28 10:05:32'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "this reminds me of a joke i heard the other night...\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-04 03:21:43'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: never mind
  created: '2005-11-04 03:22:35'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: never mind
  created: '2005-11-04 03:45:40'
date: '2005-10-24 18:46:20'
title: Non-common Greek Caps?

---
