---
author:
  name: Eric_West
  picture: 109470
body: "I'm interested in writing something to go along with my senior project (typeface)
  and I love type. But I don't know why. Other than maybe my personal draw to functionalism.
  ( but that's not long enough)\r\n\r\n Or, maybe ideas how to isolate and verbalize
  my thoughts? \r\n\r\nI'd like to hear from whoever is up for it.\r\n\r\nThX"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think a lot of people love type because it combines creativity with analysis.
    A font is a personal little machine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Si_Daniels
      picture: 110446
    body: '...because it''s better than having to find a real job. '
    created: '2005-10-24 19:55:48'
  created: '2005-10-24 19:48:36'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "\u2026because it looks so pretty. Just like some other things with curves
    in them\u2026"
  created: '2005-10-24 20:02:20'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I was drawn to typography by a long road of literary study & writing mixed
    with some fine arts background, which eventually led to the combination of these
    in approaching the letterforms I'd been studying for years as text. This, anyway,
    is what brought me to publishing, and publishing to book design, and book design
    to typography and type. \r\n\r\nThis has been the professional route anyway. Just
    as important, however, has been the personal process. Hrant will likely grunt
    at this, but it strikes me as no surprise that I've been drawn into this stuff
    as a profession as well as an interest. I say this because, well, I'm not all
    that sociable. I prefer to work from home, or, better yet, from the small cabin
    I live in during the summer. I prefer to work slowly on a project that is painstaking
    in its demands, yet quiet in its result. There is a huge sense of accomplishment
    when I finish a project I've worked on for months, yet a large part of my approach
    is to remove myself from the project as much as possible. I like the relative
    annonymity. The internet, of course, has made this much easier in terms of working
    with/for clients, but my laptop also allows me to work from that little cabin,
    or anywhere else. \r\n\r\nI suppose what I'm attempting to get at is that while
    graphic designers tend to be quite social, trendy, hipster types, typographers
    & type designers tend to be a bit withdrawn & quiet (I know, a gross generalization).
    At least for me anyway, as much as my aesthetic & formal training led me here,
    it was my personality that pushed me to pursue the finer and more understated
    points."
  created: '2005-10-24 20:33:28'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: '...because of the making of books, there is no end.'
  created: '2005-10-24 20:35:47'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "One of my favorite quotes about type (and one reason why I like it). Regiomontanus
    in 1475, from Carter's <em>A View of Early Typography</em>, pp. 40--41.\r\n\r\n<cite>In
    the workshop an astrarium is kept in continual motion: a thing marvellous to behold;
    and other instruments are being made for observing the heavens, as well as appliances
    for everyday use, whose names it would be tedious to recite. Last of all it has
    been decided to practise the wonderful art of making printing type for lasting
    records, and may God prosper it! Once that is mastered, though the workman die
    soon after, death will have no bitterness for him, knowing as he will that he
    has left to posterity a gift to save them for ever after from want of books.</cite>"
  created: '2005-10-24 20:38:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "... because type forces my thoughts and words to be made visual.\r\n... because
    i love contrast.\r\n... because there is nothing more beautiful than the curves
    of a letter.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jupiterboy
      picture: 109773
    body: "I need to rewatch the opening dialouge from the Kubrick's Lolita where
      James Mason (Humbert Humbert) is reading out his list of reasons he's about
      to shoot Peter Seller's (Clare Quilty) character.\r\n\r\n<cite>\u2026 because
      type forces my thoughts and words to be made visual.\r\n\u2026 because i love
      contrast.\r\n\u2026 because there is nothing more beautiful than the curves
      of a letter.</cite>"
    created: '2005-10-25 11:22:07'
  created: '2005-10-24 20:39:53'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Type is an integral part of my visual palette. But whereas the common observer
    can generally recognize and relate to the imagery of photos, illustration, color,
    graphic shapes -- type remain the most subtle element yet strongest in influence.\r\n\r\nType
    is a micro-study visible to only a few... it's almost magical what can be done
    with it and even though I'm an expert, it never ceases to amaze me."
  created: '2005-10-24 20:56:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jason, I grunt in hermit-like agreement.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-24 21:02:18'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "there is much fulfillment knowing that this [seemingly] obscure craft has
    been shared by people throughout the ages. \r\n\r\nthe principles of ledgibility
    that we apply to this craft have been understood and developed by a range of people
    including those who painted hyroglyphics on papyrus, and by others who carved
    roman inscriptions into stone.\r\n\r\nin this day and age, with so many other
    things rendered obsolete, typogrpahy will continue to thrive, taking on many new
    forms.\r\n\r\n----------\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-10-24 21:12:23'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: Eric, by the way, everytime I see your thumbnail I walk around giggling for
    hours. It speaks (well, screams) directly to the seeming inability to walk away
    from the glowing box in front of me even for the basics of food & sleep. Given
    opportunity (and I give it plenty), this love of all things type eventually leads
    to pixel-driven psychosis on an almost daily basis.
  created: '2005-10-24 21:44:35'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Why not? I don't want to think about it too much\u2014it might be ruined
    if I do. I like it. It gives me pleasure. Is this good enough for you? It is for
    me."
  created: '2005-10-24 22:37:43'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Like furniture, type is the ultimate intersection of form and function.
  created: '2005-10-24 23:41:19'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: My story, which I am sticking to, is that type imbues static words on a page
    (screen, poster, blimp...what have you) with an attitude, with or without a capital
    A.
  created: '2005-10-25 00:14:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Because it serves the preservation of ideas and helps hold back the barbarous
    darkness.
  created: '2005-10-25 01:58:29'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "My father was a sign painter. (In today's jargon, he would be called a \"graphic
    artist\"). At an early age I became fascinated by a dusty book of font samples
    in our living room cabinet, which my father rarely used. While other kids were
    enthralled by comic books, I spent many hours thumbing through the magical font
    book. My fascination, for typography continues today, though I regret that my
    technical knowledge of typography is limited. \r\nType is an exercise in graceful
    minimalism: One can convey a seemingly unlimited range of feelings with just a
    simple character.  No need for epic poems, convoluted essays, or other literary
    esoterica: One can say it all with a single letter, or for that matter, a single
    \"pen stroke.\"... Japanese calligraphy for the Western world... Beauty, horror,
    fear, romance... the entire lexicon of human emotions expressed in an effortless
    and elegant art!\r\nD~"
  created: '2005-10-25 02:17:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Designing type is the ultimate exercise in symbol design.  We all \"know\"
    what the form of a letter is supposed to be but finding that essence again and
    again is the true test. We make an old set of symbols and yet make them new again.\r\n\r\n
    ChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-25 02:29:21'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Thanks everyone so far, tell your friends to come post!
  created: '2005-10-25 04:55:48'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: 'Since I enjoy drawing, type just gives me an excuse to draw other type of
    shapes.  '
  created: '2005-10-25 16:47:00'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: '... Because I''m obsessive compulsive and anal retentive. '
  created: '2005-10-25 17:10:44'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Because it makes me the coolest designer on the town... oh and the chicks.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-10-25 17:14:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...\u2026 oh and the chicks.\"\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor,.\r\nReally :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-25 17:16:31'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: because the letters of the alphabet are old friends, and i like to see them
    look good.
  created: '2005-10-25 17:26:39'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'For me it''s the endless variety of form, texture, and expression that can
    be derived from such a small set of basic shapes and practical limitations. '
  created: '2005-10-25 19:26:03'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: " Mark, is it ok to use it as my answer? :)\r\n\r\nThe fact is, in graphic
    design there is a constant demand for novelty. Using typefaces in ways they were
    not intended is one way to achieve that. Once somebody does it, it gets noticed
    by other designers who copy the idea. Eventually, the idea becomes so widespread,
    that the novelty wears off and the cycle starts again with some other idea.\r\n\r\n\r\nand
    as Brad Holland said: Variety allows me creative freedom\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-25 22:00:06'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "I like type because I know it\u2014albeit to a miniscule extent compared
    to the regulars here. And the more I know it, the more I like it. A little over
    a year ago, when I started to teach typography and really started to think about
    and look at the letterforms more than I had in years, was when I fell in love
    with type all over again, and I surprised myself by becoming strangely passionate
    about the damned stuff and wanting only one thing from the class: for them to
    look at it and love it too. I'm a type proselytizer.\r\n\r\nFor me it's kindof
    a game (noticing details in setting, errors, oddities, identifying faces), and
    kindof a friendship (recognizing faces, but not triumphantly: familiarly instead,
    like recognizing a voice) and definitely a pleasure in relative arcana.\r\n\r\nI
    think typophiles are incredibly weird and scary, but I am jealous that they are
    closer to type than I am, know it better and love it more.\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2005-10-26 05:01:30'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "Oh, and Eric, I too can't stop watching your animated pic. I watch it over
    and over and over. It always makes me laugh.\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2005-10-26 05:02:51'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Marian,\r\n\r\nBTW, I was pointed to YOUR work via Grant Hutchinson's flickr
    stream, the lettering you designed for the 'creatives care' shirt is amazing.\r\n\r\nedit:
    forgot the apostrophe !\r\n\r\nps. - it was late"
  created: '2005-10-26 06:38:57'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "\r\n> Grant Hutchinsons\r\n\r\nEric, Hutchinson."
  created: '2005-10-26 15:36:32'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "Thanks! Maybe I like type because I can do groovy shit <i>and</i> say things
    at the same time.\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2005-10-26 18:12:30'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "(sigh) OK, \"groovy <em>stuff</em>\"\r\n(I mean really, why is this?)\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2005-10-26 18:13:36'
- author:
    name: edwh
    picture: 109974
  body: beautiful proportions, it can set a tone for what you want to say, it enchances
    the message (if well used). I feel like a smartass during the act of type selection
    for a project but usually end up feeling like a jerk because my type library is
    pathetic (along my knowledge of type that is). But I love when talented folks
    use it, it can be soo beautiful. Its facinating too in the respect that it also
    closely ties in to cultures ... and thats all i can muster ...
  created: '2005-10-26 22:26:57'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "-For me it tells me a lot about the history of society.\r\n\r\n-Because it
    always had wicked technologies that were interesting, from flicks of metal to
    binary code.\r\n\r\n-because putting points on outlines in a dim lit room was
    better than spending 8 hours a day, by yourself, processing 50 rolls of news film
    and printing 60-100 news prints in red lit darkness."
  created: '2005-10-27 15:02:00'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Vince, at last I know something more painstacking than type design, God bless
    digital photo.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-10-28 04:27:33'
- author:
    name: TheMark
    picture: 109832
  body: "I love type just because then I can be a part of typophile with all you nutters...\r\n\r\n:o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-28 10:04:20'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I love digital photography. Spotting black and white photos was a real pain
    especially working for someone else who didn't clean their negatives. Spotting
    a digital photo or scan is easy. \r\n\r\nI love printing and darkroom but hated
    doing it as a job where your doing 100 prints a day and having to hit it the first
    time. You get real good at looking at the density of a negative but it gets a
    bit boring. \r\n\r\nBut in the fashion world the stylists hate digital photography
    since the photographers shoot too many photos too quickly. It doesn't give them
    time to prepare the clothes for the next shoot. \r\n\r\nI find shooting 10 shots
    on film you are more careful but you can experiment a lot more and it's cheaper
    in the end with digital. Most of my clients need digital images for the web and
    many castings ask for .jpgs and not 8x10 or A4 prints. Only the print media require
    hard copy usually but some like my Nivea job asked for a high res image for a
    2 mitre print. "
  created: '2005-10-28 13:29:47'
- author:
    name: gordon
  body: "the amazing details behind all the fonts that we have today, placing them
    in a design for some known or visible reasons are pretty much fulfilling. \r\n\r\nand
    its a pretty obscure, but someone has to do it right?! "
  created: '2005-11-01 05:06:21'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Eic\r\n\r\nYour animated pic is sheer film festival quality. I love it.\r\n\r\nJim[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-02 19:17:36'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: How can you not love type when there is so much of it to hate!?
  created: '2005-11-02 20:30:06'
- author:
    name: seml
    picture: 110996
  body: "There can be no history without writing.\r\nIt is known that the first language
    ever to be 'written' was pictographic, but then the process and the abstract made
    it a complex of symbols. Then the symbol returns to the image, but this time,
    in your mind...\r\nHave you ever thought about the way \"typography\" is linked
    with the abilities of the human being?\r\nAs I usually say, \"typography is the
    witness, the scream, the silence, the blank and the colourful\" and why? Because
    it grew with us. It was there when history passed. It has the essence of the time
    where it was drawn or written. It represents the beliefs, the beautiful, the truth
    and the lie. Have you noticed the power within it? It is the most beautiful and
    complex m\xE9lange of history, art and communication.\r\nBy choosing the typeface,
    your giving it personality. By choosing the weight you're augmenting or silencing
    speech. You are making it clear, or confusing it. You are playing and conjugating
    social and aesthetic codes that can please or hurt. And not everyone can decode
    it. As it has been said before, it is also a cycle. It reinvents itself, still,
    it has always been the same for centuries.\r\nIt's not cast in wood or metal anymore,
    but the form and countershape is still the result. It helps the reader to understand
    text almost like an icon: by showing the analogy between the shape of the images
    that you conceive by reading, and the shapes of the letters.\r\nThe way text is
    set gives it speed, tone. I believe that when text is set it has a personality
    of its own. It is a living being that lives in history, passes from reader to
    reader, it is understood and pictured. It is the witness of its environment.\r\nThat
    is why it is so rich. That is why it invokes such responsability and attention.
    It is easy to be lost, to get frustrated when you're setting text. It always seems
    that it isn't good enough to match the meaning. Although time cannot touch it
    because it in away that it can only give a social context to place it in, time
    is simultaneously what mutates it.\r\nIt's a quest. A passion and an obssession.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-22 23:09:07'
- author:
    name: thomasng
  body: 'I love type for the same reason that I try to be articulate and good humored.
    Also because type won''t go away until people stop talking to each other. '
  created: '2005-11-26 21:06:33'
- author:
    name: thomasng
  body: For as much as I've tried, I still can't sing. But my type keeps getting better,
    so I'm sticking to that.
  created: '2005-11-26 21:14:13'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: "Letterforms dance on the boundaries between tangible and intangible.\r\n\r\nThe
    fascination starts young, seeing letters made solid on Sesame Street. Here are
    these people holding a shape made of plastic or something, and they tell you it's
    an \"A\" and it's in a lot of the words you say. Even at such a young age, this
    raises all sorts of philosophical questions: Is that really what comes out of
    your mouth when you talk? Why can't you see it? Are the ones printed on a page
    only <em>pictures</em> of \"A\"? Does \"A\" exist? Such ideas tripped up Plato.\r\n\r\nDouglas
    Hofstadter has said that the essence of the study of artificial intelligence is
    in the question, \"What is the letter A?\" This is because symbols are crazy shapeshifters.
    Set an \"A\" each in Stop and LCD and ask yourself, what do these two things have
    in common? Almost nothing... except a <em>lot of context</em> that lets you recognize
    both as if they were the same thing. A precise, inclusive definition of the shape
    of a letter can never be more definitive than \"May contain one or more of the
    following...\" Yet we recognize them so easily that typography is practically
    an invisible art.\r\n\r\nSo we've got these almost paradoxically malleable things
    that wouldn't exist without us. We can imbue into them other intangibles, like
    moods, by playing with them the right way. Testing the boundaries of what is and
    isn't an \"A\", and what makes a <em>better</em> \"A\", is a lot like testing
    the boundaries of one's own identity. It's a puzzle with no hard rules but with
    concrete results. It's magic, and it's fun."
  created: '2005-11-28 09:54:21'
- author:
    name: manard
    picture: 110208
  body: (Among other things here already said I'd like to add) Because taking care
    of the details with love is like saying 'Thank you' to our Creator (pretty religious
    today I am) :)
  created: '2005-11-28 11:51:53'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Because it offers you storage for books:)\r\nhttp://www.set26.ch/offen.html\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-11-28 12:17:45'
- author:
    name: Fisheye
    picture: 111178
  body: "...because there is something awfully compelling about being the practitioner
    of a craft with such rich and varied traditions.\r\n\r\n...because few creative
    careers reward the patient and virtuous soul."
  created: '2005-11-28 13:34:06'
date: '2005-10-24 19:43:41'
title: Why you like type.

---
