---
author:
  name: Sebastian Nagel
  picture: 109594
body: "Dear Members,\r\n\r\nI am currently working on my third typeface <a href=\"\">Terra
  Nova</a>, but it's the first one to leave the ambitious draft phase and enter the
  serious precision work phase.\r\n\r\nUntil now, when testing the face, i relied
  on Indesign's \"Optical Kerning-Feature\", that did the job passable for now. The
  further i get with the font, the more necessary it gets to think about spacing and
  kerning, but actually I have no experience yet, so i just don't know how to do it
  right, and fiddling without a plan does not lead to anything...\r\n\r\nIs there
  a well-tried and documented method to do the font-metrics for a serifed font (in
  fontlab 4.6; targeted font format is opentype)? What about kerning, where do you
  start, where does it end? What is it about class-based kerning? You see: I am an
  absolute noob on this...\r\n\r\nThanks for any direct answers, links, etc.\r\nsebilar"
comments:
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "of course, the link does not work... :(\r\nnext try: <a href=http://typophile.com/node/15535>Terra
    Nova</a>"
  created: '2005-10-26 01:03:00'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Sebilar, have you tried to read this?\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/15794\">http://typophile.com/node/15794</a>\r\nIt
    might help with the spacing."
  created: '2005-10-26 01:54:19'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I have not used this tool in a delibertae way yet but when I get to the point
    where I am making a font like your I expect I will.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/type_utilities/lettermeter/\r\n\r\n\"
    Inspired by Ligature Counter, LetterMeter is a text analysis tool, used in the
    Type&Media classes (postgraduate course of type design at the Royal Academy of
    Art in The Hague). LetterMeter is designed for comparing multilingual texts and
    measuring the frequency of appearance of glyphs.\" \r\n\r\nIt also show glyph
    pairs.\r\n\r\ncool no?\r\n\r\nEven cooler that you can have it today & for free.
    Hooray for Peter Bilak & Just van Rossum!"
  created: '2005-10-26 04:00:55'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "I was actually \"remembered\" of my problem by reading your thread, mikesousa,
    but i couldn't find any other methods yet and I wanted to do some recherche about
    common techniques before starting (this doesn't imply that your method is not
    good). By the way: congratulations for your Calouste-typeface and especially to
    your presentation-pdf, which is very inspiring to me.\r\n\r\nI will also have
    a look at Peter Bilaks lettermeter, which seems to be quite useful even on first
    sight.    Edit: argh... osX only :(\r\n\r\nThanks for your tips!"
  created: '2005-10-26 09:41:33'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: 'walter tracy''s book: letters of credit, may be helpful. He breaks spacing
    down into a step by step.'
  created: '2005-10-26 15:10:25'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: I've read this book, and it's really helpfull especially for the spacing.
  created: '2005-10-26 15:15:45'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Thanks for this proposition, the book is already ordered :)\r\nAre there
    any other books about typedesign (spacing or letterforms) that can be recommended?\r\n\r\nI
    am waiting for Karen Cheng's <a href=http://www.typografie.de/verlagsverzeichnis/typografie/689-4.html>Designing
    Type</a>, but it won't be out here in Germany until June 2006, and I don't even
    know what's written in it, but it's a must-have for me already because of the
    publishing house that is doing the german edition produces only (expensive...)
    high-quality-books.\r\n\r\nI already have:\r\n- Albert Kapr, Schriftkunst\r\n-
    Max Caflisch, Schriftanalysen\r\n- Gerrit Noordzij, Letterletter\r\n\r\nThanks\r\nSebilar"
  created: '2005-10-26 19:05:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://typophile.com/wiki/triumvirate\r\n\r\nBTW, who knows what about that
    Cheng book?\r\nA translation of that German page, somebody?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-26 19:19:25'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Sorry about posting a german link here without translation.\r\n\r\nThere
    is much \"bla\" in the description. Short summary:\r\nKaren Cheng has/is writing
    this book, looking at each letter and its specifics and showing examples. Not
    only the main characters a-z A-Z are described, but also numerals and special
    characters. Then it says you can lern to create your own type, or just train the
    eye to recognize and select high quality typefaces.\r\n\r\nAs far as I have found
    out, the book is translated from english, as Karen Cheng is Professor at an university
    I can't remember (her <a href=\"http://depts.washington.edu/vcd/designs/02/f_cheng.shtml\">Homepage</a>
    isn't working at the moment, but it did a few days ago, so it's a temporary problem
    i guess).\r\n\r\nYou can also find an english version of the book (with different
    cover-design) at <a href=\"http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0300111509/026-6680894-2778848\">amazon.co.uk</a>.\r\nIt's
    not available here, too (may 06), and I am wating for the german edition for the
    reason of mother tongue and for knowing that the edition made by Hermann Schmidt
    (publisher) will be high quality (I love books :)"
  created: '2005-10-26 20:33:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I just emailed her for some insight.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-26 20:37:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I got a reply from Karen Cheng. She was kind enough to\r\nsend me a summary
    as well as a PDF of sample spreads.\r\n\r\nAn excerpt from the summary:\r\n\"This
    book provides a detailed guide to developing a typeface and is suitable for readers
    at all levels, from the novice to the serious professional. Issues of structure,
    optical compensation and legibility are clearly illustrated with numerous diagrams
    and type specimens. The book describes the process for developing both serif and
    sans-serif typefaces with precise detail. Special emphasis is given to the systematic
    relationships between letters and shapes in a font.\"\r\n\r\nJust based on that
    paragraph, one might be tempted to think this book is the missing Holy Grail.
    But since Cheng is not an accomplished type designer* it can't be that. However,
    what she does seem to be doing is going quite deep into the time-honored practice
    of analysing and comparing existing fonts, and this is both rare and valuable**.
    The spreads reveal some very well thought out comparisons that discuss many things
    of concern, including: relative widths; vertical proportions; serif structures;
    the B/P/R relationships; modularity; spacing; and even diacritic placement. And
    at over 200 pages, that makes the whole pretty promising I think.\r\n\r\n* As
    far as I can tell. Unless she does it for the CIA or something.\r\n\r\n** The
    mention of Young's \"Fonts & Logos\" in the summary is telling, since that book
    also enagages in a fair amount of comparison.\r\n\r\nSince looks can be decieving,
    I might regret saying the following, but: this book is a Strong Buy recommendation,
    especially for beginners (if also probably interesting to most of the more advanced
    designers). In fact -once I get my hands on a copy- I think I might recommend
    it as a textbook for my type design class at ArtCenter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 16:58:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nIs it available now?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-27 17:16:21'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "April 06  - Yale Press; May 06 - Amazon\r\n\r\n\r\n> But since Cheng is not
    an accomplished type designer* it can\u2019t be that\r\n\r\nwhy not? but she's
    graphic designer"
  created: '2005-10-27 17:22:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For a painful illustration of what happens when a graphic designer (who is\r\nnot
    also a type designer) tries to make an actual \"finished\" font, check out\r\nthe
    fiasco-landscape in this recent book: http://www.rotovision.com/description.asp?bookid=2487#\r\n\r\nFortuntely
    for her book, Cheng seems to be leveraging her perceptive and analytical abilities
    without trying to detail the design and delivery of a fully prime-time type design.
    But again, I have yet to really check it out.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 17:36:27'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "So not to buy the book? \r\n"
  created: '2005-10-27 21:35:17'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: Although the thread is off-topic now, I think it was worth sacrifying it.
    Sounds promising. Thanks for asking her about details, hrant
  created: '2005-10-27 21:35:30'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nHow'd you like the <em>Type Specific</em> book?  Worth buying?"
  created: '2005-10-28 01:48:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I thought some of it (like the opener: the killer Houston Chronicle face)
    was good, but most of it was just depressing: design firms resisting the common
    sense of hiring a type designer, ending up either with geometric constructed suicide
    pills or decon hooligan backwash (often not even a font but an illustrator file
    with a bunch of outlines), but not even seeing a problem, and on top of it getting
    published as real, good work. But I guess there's a silver lining on the cloud:
    the demand is there, and there's a <cite>lot</cite> of room for education, hence
    potential.\r\n\r\nSo the book is totally worth <cite>looking</cite> at, as a reality
    check\r\nfor us; but the money could certainly be better spent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-28 01:54:44'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nThanks for the mini-review! So the book might then be a bad
    buy if you want to learn type design...you'd pick up bad habits. I've got my Cabarga's,
    Bringhurst, and some other books on typography (even an old Aaron Burns book)."
  created: '2005-10-28 02:03:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just finished \"Type Specific\" as well.  Mostly, it is a show book and
    very little of a tell book.  The \"show\" part is in the sense of typical award
    annuals, you get a quick flash of something but not much meat. There is minimal
    description of the problem, solution and method. \r\nThe main thing that bothered
    me was the presentation.  The design/layout of the book overpowers the typefaces
    they are showing. This is one of those \"it's all about me\" designs.  The type
    designs themselves are nondescript and pretty uninventive--they look like off-the-shelf
    faces. I wonder why someone would pay for a custom font when it was not customized
    for them?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-28 02:22:11'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> but the money could certainly be better spent\r\n\r\nyeh....like stuff
    from Plantin-Moretus Museum"
  created: '2005-10-28 02:31:49'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Now I've had the time to read \"letters of credit\" and do some spacing-experiments
    on my font, and I've come to a problem where I need some advice:\r\n\r\nI have
    spaced uppercase (HOHOHO etc.) and lowercase letters (nonono etc.), respective
    to the inner room of H, O, n and o. When setting uppercase, everything is fine,
    same is when setting lowercase. \r\n\r\nThe problem occurs when mixing them: The
    spacing of the uppercase obviously is wider, so words like \"Terra Nova\" look
    more like \"T erra N ova\". This happens with most uppercase letters, not only
    with T, V, W etc.\r\nIs this an error by design (H too wide --> spacing too loose)?\r\nIs
    it an error of spacing (uppercase spacing chosen too loose)?\r\nOr does it need
    adjustment between upper- and lowercase via kerning?\r\n\r\nThanks for your help\r\nsebilar"
  created: '2005-12-02 12:08:21'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Caps usually do look better set looser, but fonts are not usually spaced
    that way for the reason you discovered.\r\n\r\nIf you want to retain that feature,
    I can think of a couple of options.\r\n\r\n1. Shift all the caps to the right,
    or shift all the lowercase to the left, or a little of both. The downside of this
    is when you have a lowercase letter followed by an uppercase letter the spacing
    will be even looser. Fortunately, this doesn't come up in normal words, mainly
    just hi-tech brand names (iPod, FontLab, etc.). People who need to set stuff like
    that could simply do manual kerning in such cases.\r\n\r\n2. If you are building
    an OpenType font, you could space the caps tighter for use with the lowercase
    and use the 'cpsp' feature to specify looser spacing for all-caps settings. This
    would only work in OT-aware apps, but is probably the smarter way to do it."
  created: '2005-12-02 15:06:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"1. Shift all the caps to the right,\"\r\n\r\nThat is my solution as well.
    \ Determine your sidebearings for cap to cap spacing, then shift the caps to the
    right using the same width (meaning the left sidebearing will increase and the
    right sidebearing will decrease) so that the right sidebearing of caps are now
    correct for positioning next to lower case.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-02 15:26:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If typographers want all-cap spacing, they should do it themselves, with
    tracking.\r\n\r\nRelated:\r\nHaving an alternate version of a font with different
    sidebearings and kerning, for use at different letterspacing (tracking), is an
    idea which I put into Nicholas, the tightly-fitted display version of Goodchild."
  created: '2005-12-02 17:50:58'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Thanks for your comments. So this is a general problem, not one specific
    to my font. I was just wondering about, that Walter Tracy doesn't mention this
    problem (and my results are the consequence of his method, i did nothing else
    yet than follow his step-by-step instructions).\r\n\r\nTerra Nova is a opentype-Font,
    so cpsp is defintly an option and I think I will narrow caps-spacing for standard-settings
    so it looks good in normal text as well as in words like iPod.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nJust
    thinking about the other method: When shifting the Caps to the right, isn't there
    the problem that there will be holes in the left side of text-blocks, like:\r\n\r\n&nbsp;This
    ist just an\r\nexample what happens to\r\n&nbsp;Terra Nova when done\r\nthis way.\r\n\r\nso
    caps will look indented?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-02 18:01:28'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>When shifting the Caps to the right, isn\u2019t there the problem that
    there will be holes in the left side of text-blocks....</em>\r\n\r\nYes, if the
    caps are generously spaced. \r\n\r\nMost type designers do as Nick suggested and
    leave it to the user to space the caps correctly, trusting they do such things.
    The cpsp feature is the best general solution because it lets you control the
    caps spacing yourself without doing weird things with the sidebearings which,
    I admit, is sort of a hack."
  created: '2005-12-02 18:59:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If typographers want all-cap spacing, they\r\n> should do it themselves,
    with tracking.\r\n\r\n?\r\nAre you sure you mean it's OK to produce fonts with
    lousy all-caps setting?\r\n\r\nYes, making all-caps setting water-tight is a bear,
    but just dumping the work on the user is no good: it makes them pay less for your
    work; and it can make your fonts look bad (since many users either don't care
    or don't know).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-02 19:50:26'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "It's now possible with OpenType to provide features to make all-cap settings
    look good without wrecking normal text. I imagine a domino effect if the caps
    are shifted; then what happens to lines of text with lining figs, or spacing on
    punctuation, caps at beginnings of lines, or..... ?\r\n\r\nA book face will look
    tight when set all-caps, because the primary concern in spacing is correct fit
    in text. If the typeface is intended for display, maybe a huge amount of kerning
    is necessary to get the desired syrupy effect. But for a book face, don't throw
    everything else out of kilter just to get loose all-cap settings. How often do
    you need them when setting text? \r\n\r\nAgain, OpenType obviates this. You can
    have it all. Don't use hacks, use cpsp. "
  created: '2005-12-02 20:09:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Are you sure you mean it\u2019s OK to produce fonts with lousy all-caps
    setting?\r\n\r\nI would have thought you'd have figured, from my mention of tracking,
    and the direction of the thread, that I was referring to an optimal all-cap setting
    that is slightly more tracked out, or letterspaced, than what happens when caps
    are optimized for use with lower case. \r\n\r\nAnother problem with adding extra
    sidebearing space to the left is that it will throw off left column alignment.\r\n\r\nActually,
    a legitimate plan to space out a default all caps setting would be to add extra
    kerning to every cap-cap kern pair, including figures. That wouldn't affect any
    other typographic parameters.\r\n\r\nHowever, I don't think it's the type designer's
    job to make this kind of decision for the end user. Therefore I'm not a fan of
    the OpenType \"cpsp\"."
  created: '2005-12-02 20:33:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a legitimate plan to space out a default all caps setting\r\n> would be
    to add extra kerning to every cap-cap kern pair\r\n\r\nAn idea I've presented
    a few times before. Or you could couple such an approach to the offseted-caps
    idea: make comprehensive space-UC negative pairs to \"put things back\" so to
    speak.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t think it\u2019s the type designer\u2019s job to\r\n>
    make this kind of decision for the end user.\r\n\r\nThe thing is, quite often
    a \"decision\" is never made!\r\nAnd it's simply beneficial to make the font work
    well\r\nas often as possible (although admittedly never always)\r\nsometimes in
    spite of the user!\r\n\r\nThat said, any time saved on a given design does\r\nmean
    there's more time to work on other stuff...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-02 20:43:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think what Nick means is that he is leaving the option to the end user,
    not making a timesaving for himself. Some users might like their caps tight and
    some even looser than the type designer might. Creating a style sheet in InD for
    all caps settings is a piece of cake. I always create one for small caps as well
    because I usually like it looser than it comes out of the box.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-02 21:20:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> he is leaving the option to the end user\r\n\r\nYes, but not of tight/loose,
    but of good/bad.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-02 21:26:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Yes, but not of tight/loose, but of good/bad.\"\r\n\r\nI think you missunderstood
    him. The only thing tracking can do is adjust tight/loose.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-02 21:57:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's possible I misundertood. But then so did Mark; except Nick didn't correct
    him.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-02 22:00:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I should add that Adobe puts the \"cap spacing\" feature into all our OpenType
    fonts. However, the cap spacing is pretty mild.\r\n\r\nYou can test this easily
    enough in InDesign: take some text, typed in all caps. Dupe the line. *Format*
    the second line in all caps. You'll see the spacing get looser, dependent on the
    setting in the font.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-12-05 07:37:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...*Format* the second line in all caps. You\u2019ll see the spacing get
    looser, dependent on the setting in the font.\"\r\n\r\nThomas, are you saying
    that if the original typing is done in all caps, the spacing will be tighter than
    if you apply the \"all caps\" formatting command in InD? If so, why?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-05 13:33:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Tracey was talking about how to space letters, not how to space a font. What
    he has to say about the spacing of uppercase-to-uppercase is primarily of interest
    to typesetters, rather than font developers, because the latter have to space
    the uppercase letters primarily to work with lowercase.\r\n\r\nI strongly advise
    <em>against</em> the idea of spacing the caps relative to each other and then
    offsetting them to the right to space appropriately with the lowercase. The will
    produce  THIS sort of mess, where the space to the left of caps is larger than
    the space to the right.  Of course, this also results in giant gaps at the beginning
    of words.\r\n\r\nProper cap-to-cap spacing is primarily the duty of the typesetter,
    hence the existence of tracking. Caps in fonts should be optically evenly spaced
    and fitted to the lowercase. The <cpsp> feature can be used to increase the spacing
    between caps, but I generally find it best to use this only to uniformly loosen
    the setting slightly -- i.e. a kind of in-built tracking --: it is too blunt an
    instrument to produce optimal spacing of all-caps.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-07 20:05:51'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Thomas, are you saying that if the original typing is done in all caps,
    the spacing will be tighter than if you apply the \u201Call caps\u201D formatting
    command in InD? If so, why?</em>\r\n\r\nBecause the all caps formatting function
    calls the <cpsp> layout feature, but simply typing in all caps does not. The layout
    feature description notes that the feature could be called heuristically, though,
    so it is possible that an application could invoke the feature contextually whenever
    two uppercase characters occur next to each other."
  created: '2005-12-07 20:08:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The will produce THIS sort of mess\r\n\r\nMissing link? Or did <cite>I</cite>
    miss something?\r\n\r\n> this also results in giant gaps at the beginning of words.\r\n\r\n(You
    must mean <cite>capitalized</cite> words.)\r\nUnless you add comprehensive space-UC
    negative kerning pairs...\r\n\r\nWhich isn't to say that I feel comfortable pushing
    caps to the right.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-07 20:22:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sorry, Hrant, Typophile is being clever and removing double spaces. Also,
    I meant to write 'this also results in giant gaps at the beginning of <em>sentences</em>.
    Here is an image that shows the kind of word spacing problems I was trying to
    describe:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WhyNot.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nNote
    that among the other problems, you also throw off margin alignment, and no kerning
    is going to solve that for you."
  created: '2005-12-08 03:52:19'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Capital spacing is something which troubles me since some time, and I am
    happy to find many of my nightmares reflected in this thread! Some thoughts on
    it.\r\n\r\n(a) I do not trust designers -- any typographers left? -- and so think
    that the job needs to be done by type designers. \r\n\r\n(b) cpsp indeed requires
    that the \"All Caps\" option is selected from the menu. Yet there are people who
    TYPE uppercase letters. (I do not want to discuss whether they should or should
    not do so. They do.) \r\n\r\n(c) cpsp, as used now, merely increases the overall
    spacing of capitals. (Whether you add more space to one side of glyphs, or distribute
    additional space equally to left and right sides of glyphs, is a matter of taste.
    Each with its own consequences.) \r\nIn my opinion, uppercase letters need to
    be spaced a bit differently for uppercase context and for lowercase context.*
    Compared to increasing sidebearings in a linear way merely (which is what the
    cpsp feature normally does), A L T V W Y may require less flesh leftside/rightside
    for UC context. \r\nI still like David Kindersley's model for UC context. As a
    side effect, UCs spaced that way don't need much kerning at all.\r\n\r\nIn Litteratra,
    I included a second set of uppercase letters which are spaced not only more openly
    but a bit differently. Normal UCs are spaced for lowercase context, a special
    set is spaced for uppercase context. A lookup in calt then replaces normal UCs
    by special UCs in uppercase context.\r\nHowever, this blows up the character set
    unnecessarily, and requires kerning for even more glyphs -- with punctuation marks
    &c at least. I will not repeat this.\r\n\r\nMy hope is a bit in contextual positioning.
    Then one set of UCs would do, and it would be possible to add spaces INSIDE spaced
    words only. So, the effect which Mr Hudson illustrated would not occur.** \r\nIn
    a second step, the space character's advance width could be increased if UC-only
    or SC-only words precede and/or follow it.\r\n\r\nKarsten\r\n\r\n\r\n* Depends
    on typeface design. Rather narrow sanserif UCs do not require different spacing.
    Increasing spaces the linear way works fine.\r\n** InDesign's optical margin alignment
    may compensate for it. But this does not help poor Word users ..."
  created: '2005-12-08 11:19:31'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Typophile is being clever and removing double spaces.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is normal web browser behavior, nothing to do with Typophile. (If you do \"view
    source\" on this page, you will see all the spaces you typed are still there.)
    In HTML, if one or more spaces are typed, only one is displayed; none if it's
    the beginning of a line.\r\n\r\nBut, here's a little trick that works on Typophile:
    Type non-breaking spaces instead when you want multiple spaces or spaces at the
    beginning of a line to be displayed. On the Mac, use option-space. Control-shift-space
    on Windows (I think)."
  created: '2005-12-08 14:57:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> this also results in giant gaps at the beginning of sentences.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    that's not as bad as extra gaps before capitalized words mid-sentence.\r\n\r\n>
    you also throw off margin alignment\r\n\r\nGood point.\r\n\r\n> there are people
    who TYPE uppercase letters\r\n\r\nIn fact I'd say that when a person wants all-cap
    text he's going to bloody type all-cap text (especially with that handy caps-lock
    key) so it's a problem if an app requires the user to do something counter-intuitive
    to trigger good cap spacing.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, I'd spell the name \"Terranova\".
    I've always thought\r\nthat Tarragona (in Catalunya) has a really great ring to
    it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-08 16:56:39'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "> BTW, I\u2019d spell the name \u201CTerranova\u201D. I\u2019ve always thought\r\n>
    that Tarragona (in Catalunya) has a really great ring to it.\r\n\r\nThis sounds
    interesting, but I don't get it yet (a language problem maybe; I am german-speaking).
    Could you please explain?\r\n\r\n\r\nOntopic: I've now done narrow spacing for
    the Caps, so they fit to lowercase. I am also trying to balance it a bit more,
    so it will fit smallcaps as well (it does already, except for some combinations).\r\nAnd
    next thing is that I will have a deeper look into cpsp (this talking about linear
    increase of spacing does not sound good for my constellation, but I will have
    to look at it first."
  created: '2005-12-08 23:10:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Let me try this: \xA1Tarrrrrrra<cite>go</cite>na!\r\n(Maybe you had to be
    there.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-08 23:38:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "cpsp support doesn't need to be linear, that's just the easiest way of approaching
    it if all you want to do is loosen the spacing a bit (effectively, the same as
    applying tracking).\r\n\r\nThe cpsp feature uses GPOS lookup type 1, which is
    a single glyph adjustments. The quick and easy way to implement the feature, as
    described above, is simply to define a glyph group (or class in FontLab parlance)
    and apply the same GPOS adjustment to the whole group. But there is no reason
    at all why you could not take the time to make individual and varied adjustments
    to each glyph, or to smaller groups of like glyphs.\r\n\r\nThe relationship of
    the cpsp and kern features is an interesting question. Do you kern caps-to-caps
    base on their default spacing, or based on their cpsp spacing?"
  created: '2005-12-09 02:03:40'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "\"cpsp support doesn\u2019t need to be linear [...]\"\r\n\"But there is no
    reason at all why you could not take the time to make individual and varied adjustments
    to each glyph, or to smaller groups of like glyphs.\"\r\n\r\nI know.  ;-)\r\n\r\n\"The
    relationship of the cpsp and kern features is an interesting question. Do you
    kern caps-to-caps base on their default spacing, or based on their cpsp spacing?\"\r\n\r\nI
    do not & will not use cpsp because it requires manual activation of the All Caps
    option on the user's side.\r\nStill it is open which feature is the best candidate,
    but it should be one which uses contextual positioning and is on by default, so
    users get a good result without thinking about the matter. I opt for calt. In
    this scenario -- contextual positioning, feature on by default --, kerning should
    be based on the spaced version.\r\nIt is a very tricky issue. \r\n(However, as
    long as cpsp is an option which requires manual selection, kerning better be based
    on default spacing -- which gives acceptable results even if All Caps is not activated.
    In this context, using cpsp the linear way indeed makes sense!)\r\n\r\nHello Mr
    Papazian. I use caps lock myself much too often. :) My point is: It is better
    not to expect that users activate All Caps. But then it's up to the type designer
    to make sure that in all-caps-setting spacing is right -- nevertheless.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2005-12-09 13:49:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just call me hhp. Vowels: who needs 'em? They are, after all, anti-Semitic.
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-09 18:39:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I do not & will not use cpsp because it requires manual activation of
    the All Caps option on the user\u2019s side.</em>\r\n\r\nThat is true of one company's
    current implementation in one set of applications. I don't think you should presume
    that other companies will implement the feature in the same way, or even that
    Adobe's implementation will remain this way.\r\n\r\n<em>I opt for calt. In this
    scenario \u2014 contextual positioning, feature on by default \u2014, kerning
    should be based on the spaced version.</em>\r\n\r\ncalt is not a positioning feature,
    it is a substitution feature."
  created: '2005-12-10 02:13:11'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "\"I don\u2019t think you should presume that other companies will implement
    the feature in the same way, or even that Adobe\u2019s implementation will remain
    this way.\"\r\n\r\nSo, as usual, wait and see ...  ;-)"
  created: '2005-12-10 09:15:39'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "So now I am having Problems with the implementation of cpsp:\r\n\r\nI have
    done this Opentype-Coding (@class_cpsp is all capital letters and diacrits):\r\n\r\nfeature
    cpsp {\r\n # Latin\r\n    pos @class_cpsp 30 0 45 0;     (brackets missing in
    example!)\r\n}cpsp;\r\n\r\nIt works fine in Opentype-Preview in Fontlab (characters
    space correctly), but I don't get it to run in Indesign CS2. There I mark some
    text and chose the option All Caps (crtl+shift+K) in the character-palette, but
    nothing happens (except that lowercase becomes uppercase), the spacing remains
    narrow.\r\n\r\nWhat am I doing wrong?\r\nIs there a special opentype-command of
    All Caps I haven't found yet?\r\nDo I have to activate some option in fontlab
    if I use positioning-commands of opentype? It's the first one i use, so I havent
    implemented an other feature yet to check if this would work.\r\n\r\nthanks for
    your help\r\nSebilar"
  created: '2005-12-13 19:50:33'
date: '2005-10-26 01:00:42'
node_type: forum
title: '"best" Spacing- and Kerning-Methods?'

---
