---
author:
  name: timotheus
  picture: 109558
body: "Warren Chappell designed a font called Eichenauer (for Gustav Eichenauer, who
  cut the type in lead) in 1955, but it was never manufactured and released. To this
  day, I don't think there has been a digital version, either.\r\n\r\nI would very
  much like to do a digital version of this type, but I am not sure how to pursue
  this. First of all, we're talking about something from the 1950s rather than the
  1650s, so there is a question of legal rights. Does someone hold the rights to the
  design? If so, how can I find out? Can I proceed anyway? Second, I would like to
  work from original materials as much as possible. A proof from the type is reproduced
  in Chappell's <em>Short History of the Printed Word</em>, so I figure I can contact
  the original publisher (Knopf) for more information. Any other ideas?\r\n\r\nI'd
  appreciate any insights on this. Thanks."
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Tim, I'm going to say (cautiously, at first) that you can probably go ahead
    on this one.\r\n\r\nCan you upload a scan from your specimen, so that we can see
    what these letters look like? I'm only vaguely familiar with Chappell's oeuvre,
    and don't know Eichenauer.\r\n\r\nHere's the deal, as far as I can say (and I
    am not a lawyer!). It sounds like you are saying that Gustav Eichenauer commissioned
    this design, no? If he commissioned it, and not a foundry, then only two groups
    could possibly have rights to the face\u2014Chappell's or Eichenauer's descendants.
    This is unlikely, but possible via a myriad of channels.\r\n\r\nIf this was done
    for a foundry, then the successor foundry of that foundry could theoretically
    have a trademark on the name \"Eichenauer,\" but most likely no protection on
    its design."
  created: '2005-10-29 10:52:27'
- author:
    name: timotheus
    picture: 109558
  body: "Thanks for your feedback, Dan.\r\n\r\nEichenauer was a punchcutter who worked
    for Koch at least during the 1930s. I am not sure of the arrangements, but it
    looks like both Koch and Eichenauer worked for the Klingspor foundry. Warren Chappell
    studied under Koch in 1931-32, but I don't know where he was during the 1950s.
    I think by this time he had his own studio and concentrated more on illustration
    and book design. Chappell's Lydian and Trajanus came, I believe, in the late 1930s
    and early 1940s. Linotype has a digital version of Trajanus now. It might be a
    good idea to contact them, I suppose.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I have attached a scan from
    the book, <em>A Short History of the Printed Word</em>.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gs770.gif]"
  created: '2005-10-29 13:06:07'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Klingspor was absorbed by D. Stempel AG during the early 1950s. It is possible
    that Eichenauer would have continued working for them (but I doubt it).\r\n\r\nD.
    Stempel AG became part of Linotype in 1985. I work at Linotype now. A bunch of
    the people I work for used to work at Stempel, they might know about this. I can
    get back to you on Tuesday."
  created: '2005-10-29 18:03:26'
- author:
    name: timotheus
    picture: 109558
  body: That's very generous of you, Dan. Thank you!
  created: '2005-10-29 22:38:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Love those umlauts.\r\nIt's occurred to me, via a thread elsewhere, that
    it would be possible to do a language-specific \"contextual alternates\" OpenType
    substitution, so that those accented glyphs, which don't blend with other accented
    characters in, for instance Swedish, would be the ones used in German. \r\nDoes
    that make sense, and I wonder what the code would be? "
  created: '2005-10-29 23:07:31'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Nick that would be great, but I believe I remember Thomas Phinney saying elsewhere
    that the language substitution feature isn't supported by any application!
  created: '2005-10-29 23:13:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sure, except language tags are yet to be supported AFAIK.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-29 23:13:37'
- author:
    name: timotheus
    picture: 109558
  body: I was already thinking of doing them as some form of alternate substitution.
    It's a shame the language-based approach isn't supported. It will still be cool
    as a stylistic set or something, too.
  created: '2005-10-30 01:56:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I would consider assigning these umlaut forms as titling variants using the
    <titl> layout feature. They would look best at larger sizes and, especially, in
    all-caps settings. At text sizes, I think they would not be sufficiently clear.
  created: '2005-10-30 03:26:05'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: These "odd" uppercase umlauts were quite the norm for German metal type (Futura
    had them too, for instance). I have a feeling that the German typefounders may
    have sized the type on their body a bit differently, and so they didn't have enough
    room for umlauts above the letters (?). Does anyone have any old German metal
    sorts?
  created: '2005-10-30 10:59:31'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "In other words, could that have been a technological thing, and  not necessarily
    an aesthetic solution?\r\n\r\nEither way, building in alternates is a good idea,
    I think. German's are used to seeing such letters (even if less so now). So it
    doesn't come across as foreign or odd, the way that it might for native readers
    of other languages."
  created: '2005-10-30 11:01:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">titling variants using the layout feature\r\n\r\nIs that the feature \"titl\",
    listed as \"Titling Alternates\" in the InDesign OpenType palette?\r\n\r\nThat's
    a great idea, John!\r\nTypographers could also use the feature for text setting,
    if they thought the glyphs were suitable. \r\nIt would also be possible for foundries
    to include the cap German double-S in such an alternates set, as well as other
    Germanisms such as the \"tz\" ligature (see Eichenauer above) and the \"ch\" where
    the characters are practically touching. Do these uses require special contextual
    consideration, eg for Wortfugen?\r\n\r\nIt would be good if a German type designer
    could put together a standard set of specs for such an OpenType feature. It's
    the kind of thing I would love to include in my OT fonts.\r\n\r\nOn second thoughts,
    not standard, but it would be nice to have a list of the alternate glyphs and
    where they might be applicable, so non-German type designers could be better informed
    about what was appropriate to include in their fonts, and how to do it."
  created: '2005-10-30 16:42:59'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Despite what a few German type designer might tell you, there is no cap German
    double-S. The capital form of \xDF is SS. Some type designers throughout history
    (but really just a small few) and the GDR (the communist German Democratic Republic)
    have experimented with changing this, but it never really caught on (thankfully).\r\n\r\nMany
    German computer users do not know this, so you see typographic errors like \"MA\xDFNAHME\"
    alot. This makes me cringe the same way that fake small caps or wrong quotes do.
    The best thing to do would be to set OpenType setting properly, so that when caps-lock
    is on, and the user presses the \"\xDF\" key, they get \"SS\" automatically.\r\n\r\nI
    like seeing special \"ch\" \"ck\" and \"tz\" ligatures, but they fell out of use
    in German typesetting decades ago.* We can bring them back through OpenType now,
    but I have a feeling that the ligatures would look odd and dated to the average
    reader.\r\n\r\n\r\n*The exception here is Blackletter faces. Even though many
    contemporary digital blackletter faces do not have these ligatures included, they
    should. Although the \"rules\" for setting Antiqua type changed over the past
    few decades, they did not for blackletter. It is just that blackletter is hardly
    ever set, and no one seems to care about it anymore. But any type designer who
    designs a blackletter font should include all of the historical glyphs in it,
    I think, because anyone who is actually likely to license a blackletter font is
    probably going to be more inclined to want to set it properly.\r\n\r\nBut even
    blackletter doesn't use the capital double-s  ;-)"
  created: '2005-10-30 17:40:00'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "For those of you who want to read up on the capital double-s debate (and
    it is a debate, even if only about 10 or 20 people are debating), here are some
    links (mostly in German, sorry):\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.spiekermann.com/iblog/C1097932338/E20050813174246/index.html\">Erik
    Spiekermann weighs in (against) on his blog</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typeforum.de/modules.php?op=modload&name=News&file=article&sid=302&mode=&order=0\">typeFORUM
    is mad because the Unicode Consortium said \"no\" to a capital double-s</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://praegnanz.de/weblog/631/heies-thema-versal-\">Gerrit van Aaken,
    German design blogger extraordinaire, summarizes the arguments</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://de.wikipedia.org/wiki/Scharfes_s\">What
    the German Wikipedia entry says</a>"
  created: '2005-10-30 17:43:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the German typefounders may have sized the type on their body a bit differently\r\n\r\nIn
    fact most <cite>all-caps</cite> (AKA \"Titling\") metal fonts, whether made in
    Germany or virtually anywhere else, used up the entire em height (for sensical
    reasons). The one decidedly German difference in vertical proportions has to do
    with the descender length.\r\n\r\n> \u201CMA\xDFNAHME\u201D ... makes me cringe
    the same\r\n> way that fake small caps or wrong quotes do. \r\n\r\nThe former
    is certainly much worse, come on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-30 17:50:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">there is no cap German double-S.\r\n\r\nThere was a thread about this on
    Typophile last year, but I can't find it.\r\nIt seemed to me that there was a
    convincing argument for a cap double-S, for words where three S's appear in succession.
    Besides, in the sample shown, the typographic design problem had been solved,
    and the novelty value  was marvellous.\r\n\r\nThere was once no English double-U."
  created: '2005-10-30 17:52:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I wouldn't mind seeing a cap SS, although I admit\r\nnot having put very
    much thought into it (yet).\r\n\r\n> the typographic design problem had been solved\r\n\r\nTo
    me only the A-umlaut is OK.\r\nThe U-umlaut is particularly distracting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-30 17:56:59'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "The reason that German can now set three s's in a row has to do with the
    new writing rules that were completed (sort of) in 1998, and which went into effect
    (sort of) in August.\r\n\r\nAlthough I like many of the reforms, they are almost
    all contoversial. And I suspect that many of them will change. Three letters in
    a row does not make linguistic sense, even in German. \"Schlossstrasse\" (Castle
    Street) may be the proper way to type today,* but that doesn't mean that it is
    good. Making a capital double-S in my opinion would just be a cop-out way of standardizing
    too many other peoples' mistakes. I'm sorry if I sound a bit harsh here, but I
    really dislike this whole capital double-S idea, and I applaud the Unicode Consortium
    for pointing out that it has no sufficient base in German language, history, or
    tradition.\r\n\r\n\r\n*In the past, Schlossstrasse would have been spelled Schlosstrasse,
    Schlo\xDFstra\xDFe, or even Schloszstrasze. Today, a sensitive typographer would
    put in a space between those two words\u2014which is fully within his right as
    a designer\u2014and set it as two words: Schloss Strasse (or Schloss Stra\xDFe\u2026
    or even Schloss Str.).\r\n\r\nGosh, this gets me boiling\u2026 sorry :("
  created: '2005-10-30 18:05:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> does not make linguistic sense\r\n\r\nI don't think you mean \"linguistic\",
    do you? One could argue that it's visually bad (both for Display and Text, although
    in different ways), but by the same argument so are <cite>doubled</cite> letters!
    My attraction to ligatures is known, and I think doubles should be the first thing
    we fix.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-30 18:37:20'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Dan Reynolds writes: \r\n> Tim, I\u2019m going to say that you can probably
    go \r\n> ahead on this one.\r\n\r\nReally? On what basis? \r\n\r\n> only two groups
    could possibly have rights to \r\n> the face\u2014Chappell\u2019s or Eichenauer\u2019s
    descendants. \r\n> This is unlikely\r\n\r\nWhy are you saying that this is unlikely?
    \r\n\r\n> but most likely no protection on its design.\r\n\r\nNo, no, no, no.
    Even though the *U.S.* copyright office does not consider typeface designs to
    be copyrightable does not mean that typeface designs are not protected by other
    legislations. Many European legal systems have copyright protections that do not
    exclude typeface designs, i.e. in most cases typeface designs are copyrighted
    by law. In general, copyright protects works 70 years after the author's death.
    Chappell died in 1991, for God's sake! Of course it is unlikely that somebody
    will actually file a lawsuit if you do the digital version of the font (because
    it's an expensive undertaking), but this does not mean that such doing is legal.
    \r\n\r\nIn addition, there are professional ethical standards that should be followed.
    In the 20th century, companies have been pirating designs from each other, but
    these were different times and different technologies. This does not mean that
    such poor ethics should be continued in this century. I strongly believe that
    the ethical standards of this profession should be *no lesser than* the legal
    standards. That means that typefaces designed by people who died 70 years ago
    or later should not be released without a license from the descendants. \r\n\r\nIf
    a previously unknown book by Raymond Chandler is discovered today, does it mean
    that anybody can publish it only because the author died in 1959? Most certainly
    not, and this also includes translations into other languages (something that
    can be seen as an analogy to typeface digitizations). Why should it be different
    with typefaces? \r\n\r\nThough I realize that you are speaking on your own behalf
    Dan, it is surprising to me that a person working for Linotype, \"The home of
    the originals\", presents such disturbingly \"relaxed\" views. Hermann Zapf designed
    Palatino in the 1950s, roughly at the same time as Warren Chappell did Eichenauer.
    Are you suggesting that it is ethically OK for *anybody* to publish a digitization
    of Palatino (under a different name perhaps)? Or is the difference that Mr Zapf
    is alive and can defend his rights, while Mr Chappell cannot? \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nNick
    Shinn writes: \r\n> Love those umlauts.\r\n\r\nNote however that the umlauts are
    viewed as \"antiquated\" by today's German readers. So it would be unwise to put
    them as default forms for the German language. I think what you could and should
    do, however, is map them as titling and stylistic alternates. I suggest mapping
    them to several features: \"titl\", \"salt\" and \"ss01\". Give the glyphs meaningful
    names by adding a suffix to the basename. When picking the right suffix, I recommend
    using OpenType Layout feature name tag that you think best represents the nature
    of the glyphs. \r\n\r\nIf you agree that the primary role of these glyphs is \"titling
    alternates\", I suggest using the suffix \"titl\" (like the analogical feature
    name). So, the glyph names would be \"Adieresis.titl\", \"Odieresis.titl\", \"Udieresis.titl\".
    \r\n\r\nThe code would be: \r\n\r\nfeature titl {\r\n  lookup titl_dieresis {\r\n
    \   sub Adieresis by Adieresis.titl; \r\n    sub Odieresis by Odieresis.titl;
    \r\n    sub Udieresis by Udieresis.titl; \r\n  } titl_dieresis; \r\n} titl; \r\n\r\nfeature
    ss01 { \r\n  lookup titl_dieresis; \r\n} ss01; \r\n\r\nfeature salt { \r\n  lookup
    titl_dieresis; \r\n} salt; \r\n\r\nNote that in the example above, the subsequent
    features (ss01, salt) refer to a lookup defined previously in the titl feature.
    You can do such things whenever you need to perform the same lookup in several
    features. Just define your lookup in the first occurance, and refer to its name
    in subsequent occurancies. \r\n\r\nAs for ligatures \"ch\" and \"tz\", they should
    be placed in the \"dlig\" feature (discretionary ligatures) and perhaps \"hlig\"
    as well (historical ligatures), but not \"liga\" (standard ligatures). The practice
    of setting German digraphs tighter (ch, ck, st, tz etc.) has been phased out in
    German typesetting some 20-30 years ago. You are right Nick that setting these
    ligatures requires linguistic sensitivity for compound words so the ligatures
    need to be activated by the user's discretion -- unless one wants to implement
    an entire German spelling dictionary inside of an OpenType font. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nHrant
    writes: \r\n> Sure, except language tags are yet to be supported\r\n\r\nWhich
    does not mean that OpenType fonts that are released today should not use them.
    While I said that it would be unwise to use a language-specific \"locl\" feature
    in this particular case, it still makes sense to define it in other cases where
    a different glyph than the default one is the preferred form for a particular
    language. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nNick also writes: \r\n> There was once no English double-U.\r\n\r\nI'm
    with you on this Nick. The capital double-S is a patch but not a real solution.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nDan Reynolds writes: \r\n> Three letters in a row does not make
    linguistic sense, even in German. \r\n\r\nYou are very wrong on this Dan. \r\n\r\n>
    \u201CSchlossstrasse\u201D (Castle Street) may be the proper way to type today,\r\n\r\nIt
    is *not* the proper way to type today. \"Schlossstra\xDFe\" is the proper way
    to type today. \r\n\r\nIn fact, the new \xDF-ss rule introduced in the recent
    spelling reform is one of the few VERY logical changes. In German, there are two
    vowel lengths: short and long. While in Czech the long vowels are marked by placing
    an acute over the vowel letter and in Finnish they are marked by just doubling
    the vowel letter, the Germans chose a slightly awkward system: to mark the short
    vowel by doubling the following consonant letter. \r\n\r\nThe system works like
    this -- in a simplified manner: \r\n\r\n1. \"mott\", \"motte\": a double consonant
    letter always means that the preceding single vowel is short; \r\n2. \"moht\",
    \"mohte\": a \"h\" following a vowel letter always means that the preceding single
    vowel is long; \r\n3. \"mote\": a single consonant letter followed by another
    vowel within the same stem always means that the preceding single vowel is long\r\n4.
    \"mot\": a single consonant letter at the end of a stem or followed by a different
    consonant means that the preceding single vowel is likely to be long but it can
    also be short. \r\n\r\nIt's similar in English but it's more consequently implemented
    in German. In the last case, whenever you see a single consonant, it is a strong
    indication that the vowel is long, although e.g. \"Kap\" is pronounced with a
    short [a]. Yet for sure, \"Kape\" would have a long [a:] (as if it were \"Kahpe\")
    and \"Kappe\" would have a short [a]. As I said, it's not 100% logical but it
    is pretty logical. \r\n\r\nWhile the principle used to work very well with most
    consonants, the \"s\" posed a problem in the old spelling. While the letter \"s\"
    always means \"a single consonant letter\" (in the terms of the rules outlined
    above), and the letters \"ss\" always mean \"a double consonant letter\", the
    letter \"\xDF\" used to be ambiguous. Though historically a ligature of two \"s\"-es,
    it used to stand for \"a signle consonant letter\" or \"a double consonant letter\"
    in various cases. In other words, whenever you saw a \"\xDF\" in the text, you
    had no idea whether the preceding vowel should be pronounced long or short unless
    you memorized the actual word's pronounciation. The mispronounciation of vowels
    followed by an \"s\" or \"\xDF\" used to be the most common mistake made by foreigners
    learning German (and I know hundreds of them), and it used to pose the biggest
    problem for myself as well. \r\n\r\nSo it used to be that in \"Flo\xDF\" the [o:]
    was long but in \"Flu\xDF\" the [u] was short, in \"Gru\xDF\" the [u:] was long
    but in \"Mu\xDF\" the [u] was short. The recent German spelling reform greatly
    simplified this: in all cases where \"\xDF\" followed a short vowel, it was replaced
    by \"ss\". This means that \"\xDF\" now always represents \"a single consonant
    letter\" -- which is good because graphically, it is *one* letter. \r\n\r\nTherefore,
    the former \"Flo\xDF\" is written \"Flo\xDF\" (and pronounced \"[flo:s]), but
    the former \"Flu\xDF\" is written \"Fluss\" (and pronounced [flus]). The former
    \"Gru\xDF\" is written \"Gru\xDF\" (and pronounced [flu:s]) but the former \"Mu\xDF\"
    is written \"Muss\" (and pronounced [mus]). (Of course, German \"u\" is always
    an [u] sound, short or long, and never a [yu] or [a] or whatever). In other words:
    whenever you see a \"ss\", you can be *sure* that the preceding vowel is short,
    while whenever you see \"\xDF\", you can be *sure* that the preceding vowel is
    long. Since the \"castle street\" is made out of two words: \"Schloss\" (with
    a short [o]) and \"Stra\xDFe\" (with a long [a:]), it is written \"Schlossstra\xDFe\"
    and not \"Schlossstrasse\" as Dan suggests. \"Schlossstrasse\" would be pronounced
    with a short [a]. \r\n\r\n> Today, a sensitive typographer would put in a space
    between those two words\u2014which is \r\n> fully within his right as a designer\u2014and
    set it as two words: Schloss Strasse \r\n> (or Schloss Stra\xDFe\u2026 or even
    Schloss Str.).\r\n\r\nThis is complete humbug Dan, you should get back to learning
    German. Compound words are still written as compound words. In some cases, you
    might put a *hyphen* between the two (Schloss-Stra\xDFe) but you never write a
    noun preceded by a noun in apposition as two separate words. \r\n\r\nOK, now let's
    get to the \"triple consonants problem\". Let's look at an example where a compound
    word is made out of two words in which the first word ends with a double consonant
    and the second word starts with an identical single consonant. E.g. \"ship ride\"
    in German would be a compound word made of the word \"Schiff\" (ship, [shif])
    and \"Fahrt\" (ride, [fa:rt]). In old spelling, in the compound word one of the
    three identical consecutive consonants had to disappear. So when you add \"Schiff\"+\"fahrt\",
    you had to write \"Schiffahrt\" instead of \"Schifffahrt\". \r\n\r\nBut given
    the principles I outlined above, this was confusing. When you pronounce \"Schifffahrt\",
    you need to pronounce a short \"i\" followed by two phonetically distinct \"f\"
    sounds: [shif-fa:rt]. But when you look at the word \"Schiffahrt\", you might
    either mispronounce it as [shi:f-fa:rt] or, even worse, [shif-a:rt]. Because one
    \"f\" was missing. In the new spelling, this situation is simplified: the third
    consonant letter does not disappear anymore, so \"Schiff\"+\"fahrt\" = \"Schifffahrt\".
    \r\n\r\nWe're slowly approaching the \"capital \xDF problem\". As I explained
    above, the [o:] in \"Flo\xDF\" is long but the [u] in \"Fluss\" is short, the
    [u] in \"Muss\" is short and the [u:] in \"Gru\xDF\" is long. That's logical and
    evident. But this handy distinction is lost when we see it in all-caps: \"FLOSS\",
    \"FLUSS\", \"MUSS\", \"GRUSS\". This spelling suggests that all the vowels in
    these words are short. Of course, it's mostly possible to deduct the correct pronounciation
    since you usually know the mixed-case spelling. But what about people's names?
    \"Hosskammer\" is [hoskamer] and \"Ho\xDFkammer\" is [ho:skamer]. But in all-caps,
    you only see \"HOSSKAMMER\". You not only don't know what the correct pronounciation
    of the name is, you also don't know if it's \"Hosskammer\" or \"Ho\xDFkammer\"
    in mixed-case writing. Since much of lettering on grave stones is all-uppercase,
    this presents a typical problem. \r\n\r\nThe German reader knows that \"\xDF\"
    is a single letter which is different from the single letter \"s\" and from the
    double letter \"ss\". The letter \"\xDF\" is not interchangable with the others,
    performs different functions. With the new spelling, the use of \"\xDF\" has been
    made even more clear and consistent. \r\n\r\nSome might say that the uppercase
    writing of \"\xDF\" is two uppercase letters \"S\", i.e. \"SS\". I believe this
    is an inadequate depiction of the issue. The fact is that the uppercase letter
    \"\xDF\" currently looks like two letters \"S\". Although not present in the Unicode
    Standard, I like to think of it as a functionally separate letter that happens
    to share the form with the uppercase depiction of \"ss\". \r\n\r\nThe problem
    of writing \"RU\xDFPARTIKEL\" is not that the uppercase form of \"\xDF\" must
    look like \"SS\". No. The problem of such writing is that people put a lowercase
    letter in the middle of an all-uppercase text. Because \"\xDF\" is a lowercase
    letter. The uppercase form of \"\xDF\" may in most cases look like \"SS\" but...
    \r\n\r\nYes, then comes the \"but\". I don't see why a type designer should not
    distinguish the uppercase form of \"\xDF\" from two subsequent uppercase forms
    of \"s\". In most cases they may look like \"SS\" but a type designer could intelligently
    and carefully design forms that add some differentiation. \r\n\r\nThe letter \"\xDF\"
    has grown historically out of a ligature of the long \"s\" (which looked like
    an f without the bar*) and the short, final \"s\" (which looked like a small version
    of the uppercase \"S\"). The long-s form is gone now, and there never was a distinct
    uppercase form of the long-s. Therefore, I believe that deriving the uppercase
    form of \"\xDF\" from the lowercase form is wrong and will not find acceptance
    among readers. I think the solution should be sought in forms that involve the
    ligation of two uppercase \"S\" letters, employ diacritic characters, or both.
    \r\n\r\n*) In fact, it's the other way around. The letter \"f\" is a long-s with
    bar. \r\n\r\n'nuff for today. I'm on a modem connection and need to log out! \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 03:22:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I wrote: \r\n> The former \u201CGru\xDF\u201D is written \u201CGru\xDF\u201D
    (and pronounced [flu:s])\r\n\r\nOf course, it's pronounced [gru:s], not [flu:s]
    :) \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2005-10-31 03:45:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Or is the difference that Mr Zapf is alive and\r\n> can defend his rights,
    while Mr Chappell cannot?\r\n\r\nSadly, this is in fact a \"standard\" protocol.\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019m on a modem connection and need to log out!\r\n\r\n?\r\nThis, after writing
    your longest post in recent memory?!  :-)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSo, non-standard, non-shmandard,
    let's see\r\nsome competent structures for a cap \"SS\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 04:51:39'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Thank you, Adam.
  created: '2005-10-31 05:37:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Great info Adam, which I will make use of. Thanks!\r\n***\r\nOn a related
    note, I used the german double-s in my unicase type, Panoptica, where it joined
    other lower-case forms (a, e, m, n, y) amongst predominantly upper- and common-case
    forms."
  created: '2005-10-31 05:42:01'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Many European legal systems have copyright protections that do not exclude
    typeface designs, i.e. in most cases typeface designs are copyrighted by law.
    In general, copyright protects works 70 years after the author\u2019s death.</em>\r\n\r\nAdam,
    I do have a question for you here. What copyright statutes apply to typeface designs
    in Europe, other than the German design patent? Isn't the German design patent
    only valid for 25 years after registration? And shouldn't registration occur within
    6 months of publishing?\r\n\r\nIf typeface designs (not the code underneath) can
    be copyrighted for 70 years after their author's death, I'd be delighted. Please
    enlighten me further!\r\n\r\nOf course, unpublished work (like this typeface in
    question?) is just as copyrightable as published work. But is it likely that anyone
    ever registered this typeface with any authorities? Can registration occur after
    death? If no such registration ever took place, can it have any legal protection?
    Consulting living designers or their descendants is always the ethical thing to
    do. But I would like to know the legal details, as law and ethics do not always
    overlap, no?"
  created: '2005-10-31 06:24:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Dan, \r\n\r\nIn the European Union, copyright is an unregistered right (unlike
    patents, registered designs or trade marks). Copyright comes into effect immediately,
    as soon as something that can be protected is created and fixed in some way, e.g.
    on paper, on film, via sound recording, as an electronic record on the internet
    etc. \r\n\r\nAs you can draw from the UK Patent Office's description (http://www.patent.gov.uk/copy/definition.htm
    ), copyrightable works include original artistic works (paintings, engravings,
    photographs, sculptures, collages, works of architecture, technical drawings,
    diagrams, maps, logos), published editions of works (the typographical arrangement
    of a publication) and other expressions of human creativity. \r\n\r\nIn order
    to to get copyright protection, a work needs to be the result of independent intellectual
    effort. The UK Patent office gives the example: technical descriptions, catalogues
    and engineering drawings are all examples of material that qualifies for copyright
    protection, whatever the subject matter. Previously in some legislations, the
    material needed to have novelty or aesthetic value but this is no longer the case.
    So altogether, copyright -- at least in the European Union -- offers broad non-bureaucratic
    protection for all sorts of intellectual efforts. \r\n\r\nCopyright does not enumerate
    the kinds of works in any way. Since this does not *exclude* typeface designs
    in anyway, it includes them. There is no need for any special legislation that
    offers explicit protection for typeface designs, just like there is no special
    legislation that explicitly protects literary translations, web graphics or photographic
    collages. \r\n\r\nIn Germany, the situation is a bit peculiar since there is the
    \"Schriftzeichengesetz\" (\"typeface law\") which offers explicit specific \"industrial\"
    type of protection for typeface designs. I have spoken to lawyers who explained
    to me that this law, however, does not automatically exclude typeface designs
    from general copyright protection but instead, offers additional explicit protection
    -- which, as such, requires fees and registration. International copyright treaties,
    esp. the Berne convention, rule that when a work gains copyright protection in
    one country, the same protection must be awarded in other countries as well that
    are sides of the treaty. \r\n\r\nSince there is no reason why copyright should
    not protect typeface designs in the UK, Spain, France or Poland, according to
    the Berne convention these designs are also copyrighted in Germany -- despite
    the existence of the Schriftzeichengesetz. \r\n\r\nThe Schriftzeichengesetz was
    a by-product of the Vienna convention that was an effort of ATypI and WIPO in
    the 1970s. Since the copyright protection was pretty weak back then, ATypI pushed
    for special legislation. The convention was signed but never went into effect
    because only two countries ratified it. Germany was the only country that actually
    implemented the convention in form of the Schriftzeichengesetz. \r\n\r\nOf course,
    as with any work, the issue whether a *particular work* is copyrightable can be
    definitely answered only in court, if one side of a conflict claims that a material
    is copyrighted and the other side challenges that by claiming that the work does
    not fulfil the criteria of copyright protection (e.g. it's not a result of an
    individual intellectual effort). \r\n\r\nI'm not aware of any court decisions
    in Europe that would declare that typeface designs are not copyrightable (it's
    different in the U.S.). On the other hand, I know of court trials in Poland that
    ruled that typeface designs have explicit copyright protection. \r\n\r\nThe issue
    of the digital font code is completely different. Fonts are protected in the U.S.
    as software programs, and in other legislations either as software programs or
    databases. In some countries, databases have a special legal protection while
    in others they're protected by general copyright. \r\n\r\nAltogether, both typeface
    designs and digital fonts enjoy automatic free protection in EU countries. While
    typeface designs may not have protection in the U.S., one can always sue a distributor
    in a certain country where the protection applies. As a result, for example, pirated
    typeface designs can be banned from sales in the European Union while it will
    be still possible to sell them in the U.S. \r\n\r\nBut as I said, in general,
    typeface designs *are* protected by copyright. \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 07:02:30'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Dan, \r\n\r\nI just remembered that 4 years ago, Linotype won a case in the
    UK against GST, a publishing company. GST were selling fonts produced by Brendel
    that included rip-off designs of many Linotype faces (the digital fonts were not
    produced from Linotype data though.) Based on the UK copyright law, the court
    found that the *designs* sold by GST infringed Linotype's rights: \r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/13762/19_09_01-doc.html\r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 07:12:15'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Exactly, Adam. But none of these fonts were older than 25 (Neue Helvetica
    was from the 1980s, Arcadia, Herculanum, and Duc de Berry are c. 1990). I know
    that this protection exists, but I don't know what additional protections exist\u2014it
    would great to be able to point to another European statute and say, \"see, typeface
    designs are explicitly mentioned,\" because in the US, they are explicitly not
    eligible (except in rare circumstances, I guess). Can you help me?\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>On
    the other hand, I know of court trials in Poland that ruled that typeface designs
    have explicit copyright protection.</em>\r\n\r\nGreat!"
  created: '2005-10-31 08:58:02'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Dan, \r\n\r\nthe thing with copyright is that you cannot make a generalized
    statement \"copyright protects typeface designs\" just like you cannot say \"copyright
    protects music\". Music, literary works or graphic creations -- including typeface
    designs -- are protected by copyright as long as they fulfil the criteria: individuality
    and originality. This is not a simple question -- many Ph.D. theses have been
    written on copyrightability criteria. The bottom line is: whenever there is a
    conflict, a court must decide in an individual case whether something is or is
    not protected. This is as true for typeface designs as for musical pieces. \r\n\r\nThe
    U.S. law works completely different from European law so forget about any comparisons
    :) \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 10:41:16'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Tim: Gustav Eichenauer never worked for Stempel. Chappell's Eichenauer design
    was never produced. The image you posted from Chappell's book is the only image
    of it my \"Stempel source\" has ever seen. (He said it reminded him of Weiss Antiqua\u2026).\r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    I have heard from my source that Chappell was sort of a consultant to D. Stempel
    AG for about three years during the 1950s. But aside from a few typefaces that
    were later converted to Linotype use, the relationship did not seem to be so fruitful.\r\n\r\nSo,
    Eichenauer does not seem to be a Stempel design. This means that you should follow
    personal tracks now rather than foundry tracks. Adam offers valid ethical input
    above.\r\n\r\nI'm sure that you should be able to track down Chappell's heirs.
    I don't know about them, personally. House Industries, with their Neutraface types,
    have set an excellent example for how a foundry can market a deceased designer's
    work. They licensed the Neutra name from his family. Maybe something similar could
    be done here?\r\n\r\nGustav Eichenauer was very old already by the 1950s. He lost
    a son during WWII. I don't have any more personal info on him, but I suspect that
    any copyright on the face was probably kept by Chappell anyway, since the type
    was never produced or published.\r\n\r\n(Is this sufficient enough feedback, Adam?
    Would you recommend further ethical steps, or discourage pursuing this design
    althogether?)"
  created: '2005-10-31 10:49:34'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\r\nI definitely would not discourage pursuing the design -- on the contrary!
    I would try to locate Warren Chappell's heirs and offer them a percentage of the
    potential revenue from the font. It would be an appropriate way to pay tribute
    to Mr Chappell. \r\n\r\nWarren Chappell's \"A Short History of the Printed Word\",
    was published by Hartley & Marks (http://www.hartleyandmarks.com/order_info.htm
    ) and I imagine that the publishing house has an address to which they are sending
    the checks. So tracking the appropriate person should actually be rather easy
    -- just give Hartley & Marks a call. \r\n\r\nRegards, \r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 11:47:47'
- author:
    name: timotheus
    picture: 109558
  body: "Wow! Thanks for the wealth of information and ideas, Adam, Dan and everyone
    else.\r\n\r\nI have already emailed Hartley & Marks, who published the updated
    edition. I also discovered a collection of Alfred A. Knopf records at the University
    of Texas in Austin (<a href=http://www.hrc.utexas.edu/research/fa/knopf.html target=_blank>http://www.hrc.utexas.edu/research/fa/knopf.html</a>).
    Since Knopf was the original publisher (and Chappell designed many books for them),
    there may be some good material here. I wonder if I should also try to contact
    Robert Bringhurst, who did the Hartley & Marks edition.\r\n\r\nI have wanted to
    do this font for years, actually, and am now very determined to pursue it. I will
    post updates on my progress."
  created: '2005-10-31 14:20:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Another language-specific \"Titling Alternates\" feature:\r\n\r\nCapitals
    without accents.\r\n\r\nThis would be useful for all-cap display settings where
    they tend to get in the way. I believe that this is a style used in many languages,
    including French and Greek.\r\n\r\n(Of course, the characters already exist in
    the font, but what the feature would do is enable typographers to use copy keyed
    with accented characters, and not have to re-key it to get the effect.)"
  created: '2005-10-31 16:26:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually, in most languages with accented caps it's incorrect to omit them*.
    Including French. And including Canadian French, I presume. I mean, sure us type
    designers need to serve the user's needs, but when a certain class of user wants
    something dumb I think it's better to spend the effort on something besides encouraging
    linguistic impoverishment.\r\n\r\n* The reason it has happened has to do merely
    with saving money.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 16:36:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Actually, in most languages with accented caps, it\u2019s incorrect to
    omit them. Including French. And including Canadian French, I presume.</em>\r\n\r\nCorrect.
    A lot of French people will tell you that they don't use accents in all-caps,
    but this is a remnant practice dating from typewriters that didn't have keys for
    uppercase accents. In quality French publishing, caps have always had their accents.\r\n\r\nGreek
    is a different matter, and all accents except the dialytika a correctly dropped
    in all-caps settings. Since this involves some contextual funkiness, I recommend
    using the <calt> feature for Greek all-caps and smallcaps accent handling. If
    users do decide that they want the accents on the caps, they can turn off the
    <calt> feature."
  created: '2005-10-31 16:47:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> In quality French publishing, caps have always had their accents.\r\n\r\nParis
    Match magazine (a quality French publication) in the 1960s had an interesting
    approach to accents in all cap setting. The face was Didot, and acute, grave,
    and circumflex were all represented by a horizontal line (same weight as the hairline)
    tightly above the letter. This was obviously not \"dumb\", but a carefully considered
    piece of typography."
  created: '2005-10-31 17:30:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The shape of accents is a visual/typographic choice, while the <cite>omission</cite>
    of them is more of a linguistic error - so not the same thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 17:46:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: " >this is a remnant practice dating from typewriters that didn\u2019t have
    keys for uppercase accents\r\n\r\nYes, certainly there are issues of technology
    and expediency invloved in accent-dropping.\r\nBut it is also true that there
    are typographic reasons. In all cap settings, accents are visually over-obtrusive,
    and get in the way in many kinds of layout.\r\n\r\nI think the Greeks have it
    right: you don't need accents in all cap setting, because if the reader requires
    legibility help, the setting should be in U&lc anyway. It seems to me that the
    retention of accents in all-caps that one finds in practice (eg Canadian French)
    is the work of attentive editors: I applaud them for their attention to detail,
    but would suggest that the rules may be eased in certain layout circumstances."
  created: '2005-10-31 18:11:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There certainly is room for \"creative spelling\" in any script, for various
    reasons (and not all of them merely visual). As long as one knows what rules one
    is breaking, instead of pretending there are no rules because one thinks it's
    pretty.\r\n\r\nAlso, in the case of the scan Tim showed, I would say that making
    the umlauts tuck in should preferably have been accompanied by the \"Q\" and \"J\"
    not having descenders. (Which reinforces the point that that at least was a technological
    issue much more than an aesthetic one.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 18:24:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">the \u201CQ\u201D and \u201CJ\u201D not having descenders.\r\n\r\nGood point.
    That's particularly useful for drop caps."
  created: '2005-10-31 19:01:15'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "<i>I imagine that [Hartley & Marks] has an address to which they are sending
    the checks</i>\r\n\r\nHa ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha hahhhh...\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2005-11-01 04:25:43'
- author:
    name: timotheus
    picture: 109558
  body: Hmmm.... Maybe a stylistic set for drop cap alternates?
  created: '2005-11-01 15:31:07'
- author:
    name: timotheus
    picture: 109558
  body: "I have just learned from an executive at Hartley & Marks that they have no
    information or material to help me. He also is fairly certain that Lydia Chappell
    (Warren's wife) is \"in a state of dementia\" or dead. Sad news.\r\n\r\nSo now
    I have e-mailed Knopf, and I am looking into the special collection of Knopf materials
    at the University of Texas in Austin."
  created: '2005-11-01 18:36:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>This was obviously not \u201Cdumb\u201D, but a carefully considered piece
    of typography.</em>\r\n\r\nAffectation is the word I would have used. By 'quality
    French publishing', I meant book publishers, generally following the typographic
    norms promulgated by the Imprimerie nationale."
  created: '2005-11-02 08:21:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I wouldn't call it an affectation.\r\nIts raison d'etre derives from the
    requirements of the typographic layout, not from a linguistic authority.\r\nWhile
    it's true that commercial forces are apt to occasionally run roughshod over \"proper\"
    orthography, the converse of this is a streak of snobbery towards \"trade\" amongst
    the academic preservers of the flame. It's been that way from Hansard to Updike
    to Kinross.\r\nHistory decides which \"affectations\" become adopted as part of
    the canon."
  created: '2005-11-02 15:50:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the converse of this is ...\r\n\r\nNot necessarily. Although I think you've
    nailed the two main schools quite well, there is in fact (at least) a third way,
    which I myself follow: avoid artistic affectation, but treat authority with healthy
    disrespect; I feel this allows one to help other people mark real progress. In
    effect, the two main schools are both superficial, self-serving and cozy, while
    I think we can aim for a deeper harmony in the things we make to serve others.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-02 15:56:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>History decides which \u201Caffectations\u201D become adopted as part
    of the canon.</em>\r\n\r\nI have a collection of grammars for various languages,
    many of them dating from the 16th-18th century, and I'd be inclined to argue,
    based on their content, that most decisions about orthographic practice have been
    made by grammarians, not by typographers. On the subject of Greek accents, which
    we have touched on here and spoken of at greater length elsewhere, you will find
    entire volumes devoted to nothing but their correct placement.\r\n\r\nWhen a magazine
    art director decides that 'the requirements of the typographic layout' demand
    possible ambiguation of text, it seems to me that his is looking at the whole
    thing backwards. Since when has typographic layout involved 'requirements' that
    override the integrity of the text? I don't think there are any such requirements,
    and if one creates such requirements in a layout then it isn't a very good piece
    of design, no matter how lovely it might look. If you have to abuse the text in
    order to typeset it, there is a problem.\r\n\r\nBut let's assume for a moment
    that your dictum is correct. It seems to me that history has plainly not accepted
    as canonical the typographic affectation of Paris Match in the 1960s. No one does
    this now, and I doubt if anyone else did it then: it was and remains idiosyncratic
    and hence, I argue, an affectation."
  created: '2005-11-02 18:12:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it isn\u2019t a very good piece of design, no matter how lovely it might
    look.\r\n\r\nExactly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-02 18:34:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">possible ambiguation of text\r\n\r\nWe're talking about a few words in a
    headline.\r\nMissing accents isn't going to befuddle the readers.\r\n\r\n>affectation\r\n\r\nYes,
    it is an affectation, but you had used that word in contrast to \"carefully considered
    piece of typography\". On reflection, it is both.\r\n\r\nAs to whether history
    is made by grammarians or typographers, the face-off that comes to mind is the
    competition for the best reformed Polish accents that occurred in the 18th century
    (as recounted by Adam Twardoch). As I recall, the authorities asked a writer,
    a scientist, and a typographer to propose the best scheme, and the typographer
    won."
  created: '2005-11-02 18:47:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">it isn\u2019t a very good piece of design, no matter how lovely it might
    look.\r\n\r\nYou theorists crack me up.\r\nYou don't even have to see what something
    looks like, and on principle you know whether it's good or bad design?! "
  children:
  - author:
      name: quadibloc
      picture: 118515
    body: "@Nick Shinn:\r\n<cite>You theorists crack me up.</cite>\r\n<cite>You don't
      even have to see what something looks like, and on principle you know whether
      it's good or bad design?!</cite>\r\n\r\nThat seemed like a very sensible comment.
      The goal of design is for something to have an attractive appearance, and so
      the means by which that is achieved would not seem to make something \"bad design\".\r\n\r\nHowever,
      I went ahead and looked for the original of the statement, and found this:\r\n\r\n<cite>When
      a magazine art director decides that 'the requirements of the typographic layout'
      demand possible ambiguation of text, it seems to me that his is looking at the
      whole thing backwards. Since when has typographic layout involved 'requirements'
      that override the integrity of the text? I don't think there are any such requirements,
      and if one creates such requirements in a layout then it isn't a very good piece
      of design, no matter how lovely it might look. If you have to abuse the text
      in order to typeset it, there is a problem.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe \"bad typography\"
      instead of \"bad design\" would have been more appropriate, but the idea that
      it doesn't matter how pretty the result looks if, by omitting accent marks,
      you have made the text hard to disambiguate by the reader, seems valid to me.\r\n\r\nEven
      so, there is another side of this  argument. Omitting accent marks from all-capitals
      text is, in fact, a quite common typographical practice, and hence literate
      native speakers of many languages that use accented letters don't seem to be
      bothered much by the practice. So it would depend on the language (and also
      on the text) whether criticizing this as bad typography is legitimate."
    created: '2014-09-06 15:42:05'
  created: '2005-11-02 18:52:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I'm not a theorist, Nick. I'm a type designer who spends most of his time
    dealing with language support issues rather than graphic design issues. I think
    our disagreement stems from the fact that we design within different contexts.
  created: '2005-11-02 19:03:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You don\u2019t even have to see what something looks like, and\r\n> on
    principle you know whether it\u2019s good or bad design?!\r\n\r\nFor myself, I
    don't do that to instances, but I\r\ncan still think that a principle is good
    or bad.\r\nAnd I think pretty is often dysfunctional.\r\n\r\nAnd yeah, John is
    not [just] a theorist...  :-)\r\nOh, and of course neither is Gerry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-02 19:14:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry John, that wasn't meant as a generalization, it's just that both you
    and Hrant had dismissed something you haven't seen as bad design, on principle.\r\n\r\nYou're
    right about the different contexts, which is my point really, in that I don't
    think language (your background) trumps layout (my background) every time -- just
    most of the time, but not in occasional circumstances, particularly headline and
    display typography. "
  created: '2005-11-02 20:12:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> something you haven\u2019t seen\r\n\r\nVision is only one faculty.\r\nAnd
    interestingly not a highly reliable one, in terms of memory at least.\r\n\r\n>
    particularly headline and display typography.\r\n\r\nYes, a critical distinction.\r\nBut
    don't you do the same sorts of things for your \"text\" cuts?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-02 20:36:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">But don\u2019t you do the same sorts of things for your \u201Ctext\u201D
    cuts?\r\n\r\nIt's not about me, Hrant.\r\nWalk the talk, \"dude\", get off your
    butt, publish Patria and share with the world what a good \"text\" cut is supposed
    to look like."
  created: '2005-11-02 20:59:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't get it: you just made a good distinction,\r\nand I'm wondering if
    you actually implement it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-02 21:22:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I don\u2019t get it:\r\n\r\nRight."
  created: '2005-11-02 21:30:37'
- author:
    name: timotheus
    picture: 109558
  body: "Well, for anyone out there who cares to follow my efforts on this, things
    are pretty dry. I have not been able to locate any heirs, nor have I been able
    to locate any source materials yet. I never received a reply from the Knopf archive
    staff, but Robert Bringhurst has informed me that the image used in the book was
    most likely a personal photograph. So, if it exists at all, it would probably
    not be in the Knopf archive.\r\n\r\nIt looks like my last and best hope might
    be the Waren Chappell Art Collection at Columbia University (<a href=\"http://www.columbia.edu/cu/lweb/eresources/archives/collections/html/4079660.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">http://www.columbia.edu/cu/lweb/eresources/archives/collections/html/4079660.html</a>).\r\n\r\nI
    guess if I cannot locate anything more on the original design, I might still work
    from the image in the book and end up with something at least \"inspired by\"
    Chappell's Eichenauer.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\ntim"
  created: '2005-11-07 19:49:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Fortunately for everybody, there comes a point where an\r\nexpectation of
    diligence can cross into the unreasonable.\r\nErgo: once you've tried hard enough
    but still failed, go\r\nahead with it anyway.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-07 20:09:04'
- author:
    name: WAdams
    picture: 112118
  body: "Yeah, after all, it'd be perfectly acceptable if say even though Mrs. Chappell
    was gracious enough to grant permission to a person who has since spent the past
    decade-and-a-half working on these designs that someone else who didn't take the
    time to get such permission or thoroughly research things knocked out something
    and beat him to the punch.\r\n\r\nWilliam\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-15 18:33:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It shouldn't take 15 years of work to realize that's not what I said.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-16 16:08:59'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Hrant, \r\n\r\n> It shouldn\u2019t take 15 years of work to realize \r\n>
    that\u2019s not what I said.\r\n\r\nTrue. You either get it, pretty instantly,
    or you don\u2019t at all. In this case, I don\u2019t. :> \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-01-17 15:35:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "For example, if you expend more effort trying to unearth permission than
    it  will take to eventually make the font, you're doing more harm than good, to
    everybody. Nobody tries to track down Garamont's heirs, and that's a good thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-17 15:39:43'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Currently, in most countries copyright protection lasts up to 70 years after
    the author\u2019s death. There are people who believe that typeface designs should
    be protected through copyright. If you are such a person, I believe it is only
    morally correct to act *as if* that copyright protection were already in place.
    \r\n\r\nWait... Actually, it *is* in place, just not in all countries (e.g. not
    in the U.S.). So obeying general copyright rules when doing a revival is not only
    a moral but also a legal obligation -- if you plan to publish the font worldwide.
    \r\n\r\nOf course you can also do a risk analysis: what is the chance that the
    widow or the children of a deceased author (typeface designer, painter, writer
    etc.) will ever sue me if I *don\u2019t* ask permission? If you think that risk
    is minimal, you are free to go ahead and do whatever you want to do no matter
    what. But I doubt that such actions would have actual legal standing, or that
    they would be ethically clean. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-17 16:23:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I shall add that every time the type design community accepts the practice
    of unauthorized revivals, it actually supports the notion that fonts are unworthy
    of being protected as intellectual property. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2007-01-17 16:30:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Essentially I was talking in the abstract (as I'm wont to do) not about
    specifics.\r\n2) Copyright after death is only valid if there's somebody there
    to inherit it.\r\n\r\nBut to me more important than the legal aspect (and certainly
    any clinical commercial \"risk analysis\") is the ethical aspect: how does one
    ideally behave in the total, on this planet that we share? So for example in #2
    above, it's actually not enough for somebody to inherit the rights, that party
    actually has to care about it enough as well. I think the human reality is malleable
    and complex enough that sometimes (though rarely) this can even allow for the
    unauthorized revival of something by somebody who's still alive. Remember, the
    French Revoution was illegal.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-01-17 17:05:56'
- author:
    name: milady1066
  body: I am a relation of Warren Chappell. I found this page by googling him. I would
    love to know what, if anything, came from your plan/desire to create a digital
    version of Eichenauer.
  children:
  - author:
      name: timotheus
      picture: 109558
    body: "Wow, look what happens when I go AWOL for a while!\r\n\r\nEmily, I would
      still very much like to complete this project. May I ask: how are you related
      to Warren Chappell? After reading this meandering discussion, what are your
      thoughts?\r\n\r\n- Tim\r\n"
    created: '2014-01-23 22:22:56'
  created: '2013-06-25 19:58:52'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Omitting accents from capital letters is rather common, because of the difficulty
    of finding room for them. Obvious solutions involve apparent leading or shrinking
    the letter to make room for the accent.\r\n\r\nIf this practice, bad though it
    may seem, is common enough that readers expect it, it doesn't create a serious
    problem in ambiguity for reading."
  created: '2013-06-26 19:34:02'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Emily, \r\n\r\nthe person who started this thread is Tim Rolands. He operates
    his studio and can be contacted directly at http://www.timrolands.com/NewsThings/Contact.aspx
    \u2014\_I think it's wonderful that this thread has been revived after seven years,
    and I encourage you both to get in touch and talk about it. And then report here
    if you come to terms. \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam"
  created: '2013-06-26 20:36:21'
- author:
    name: milady1066
  body: Thanks, Adam!
  created: '2013-06-26 20:46:11'
- author:
    name: brianskywalker
    picture: 116184
  body: '[bookmark]'
  created: '2013-07-01 02:53:42'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "From the viewpoint of an English speaker, the German eszet is simply a ligature
    of an old-style long s with a short s. Since German text no longer normally uses
    the long s when printed, it's even odd that the eszet is still used.\r\n\r\nBut
    the long s was used in Fraktur, and so while it was dropped when the switch to
    Roman type was made, habit had made the eszet seem like an additional letter of
    the alphabet to Germans, which is why it stuck around.\r\n\r\nIf it's just a ligature,
    it really has no right to keep on existing at all in Roman type in the absence
    of a long s. If it's a letter of the alphabet, it should have a capital form.
    So the current situation of eszet having SS as its form in all capitals text is
    inherently unstable, deriving from a situation where the eszet is neither fish
    nor fowl."
  created: '2014-01-26 19:45:46'
- author:
    name: timotheus
    picture: 109558
  body: "Well, this is one of those threads that just won't die!\r\n\r\nI have continued
    working on this project off and on and around other projects and actually plan
    to have it finished in the coming months. I'll be posting samples for feedback
    when ready.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, I have learned that this typeface was actually
    referred to as \"Chappell Mediaeval\" at Klingspor/Stempel in 1956. This leads
    me to consider contacting Linotype in some official manner as they may still hold
    some legal interest in this typeface.\r\n\r\nDan: If you see this, any chance
    you could direct me to a good contact there at Linotype?\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2014-09-05 20:47:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cool.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure Dan is still at Linotype. I'll ping Nadine Chahine
    (via Twitter).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: timotheus
      picture: 109558
    body: Thanks, hrant.
    created: '2014-09-05 23:20:54'
  created: '2014-09-05 22:37:54'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "The eszet was originally a ligature for a long s followed by a short s. Thus,
    since in English, capital ffi is FFI, making a capital eszet into SS <em>seems</em>
    to be the only and obvious way to go.\r\n\r\nHowever, this origin of the eszet
    is obscured by the way it is formed in most typefaces in which it is used, and
    Germans today think of it as a letter, not a ligature. Given this, it is as natural
    to them to expect there to be a capital eszet as it is for us to expect a capital
    W, as was noted earlier in this thread.\r\n\r\nShould a capital eszet look very
    different from the lower-case eszet - and thus be a new, unfamiliar shape to learn
    - or, since the eszet ascends above the x-height anyways, should the capital version
    just be a slightly bulked-up and maybe squared-up version of the lower-case one?
    To me, that's the big question; but for now, SS <em>is</em> correct, and so it
    should be practised so that people are familiar with it."
  created: '2014-09-05 23:08:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Tim, if you give me your email (mine: hpapazian that symbol gmail dot corn)
    I'll put you in touch with Nadine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-09-11 16:46:27'
date: '2005-10-28 20:26:36'
node_type: forum
title: Warren Chappell's Eichenauer

---
