---
author:
  name: zalmoxe
  picture: 111002
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nI am designing a unicase typeface for my Typography class. It is
  called \u2018Cutting Edge\u2019 for now\u2014hopefully I'll come up with something
  less cheesy down the road.\r\n\r\nI was hoping to get some critique and feedback;
  general comments regarding aesthetics, which letters work and which don't, which
  of the two versions you prefer, and any other sage advice the type pros of this
  forum might have for me.\r\n\r\nVersion 1 has been built from two basic shapes,
  a square (denoting a \u201Cpixel\u201D), and a triangle (\u201Chalf a pixel\u201D).
  Version 2 evolved from the first, with an additional rounded shape to smooth things
  out. Even though it shares certain characteristics with pixel fonts, they are both
  intended as display fonts (set at 24 points or larger). Mainly because there is
  no such thing as half a pixel but also because legibility suffers at small point
  sizes.\r\n\r\nThe spacing and kerning are arbitrary for now. Any comments are welcome.\r\n\r\n<b>Edit:
  Attached pixel-version.pdf (November 13)</b>"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I am designing a unicase typeface for my Typography class.\r\n\r\nDid your
    teacher say why?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: zalmoxe
      picture: 111002
    body: "Hi Hrant,\r\n\r\nDo you mean why a unicase as opposed to a upper/lower
      case typeface?\r\n\r\nI believe the main reason stated was because we have a
      pretty tight project deadline, and a dual-case would require exponentially more
      time to complete. "
    created: '2005-10-30 19:55:26'
  created: '2005-10-30 19:46:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, to me, if one is concerned about not wasting time, a unicase font is
    the last thing one should make! An all-caps assignment would have been much better.
    I'm bitching because I think unicase is generally an affectation; and in the context
    of teaching students, it might even confuse their necessary education about the
    difference between the two cases.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-30 20:56:22'
- author:
    name: zalmoxe
    picture: 111002
  body: "I see your point and agree with you to some extent. Though one could also
    argue that a unicase gives students the freedom to explore both cases of the alphabet
    in the pre-production process, rather than limit them to the upper case as you
    suggested.\r\n\r\nAnyhow, far be it for me to defend or contend the decisions
    of the faculty, I am just a student (who is looking for some feedback on his font
    =).\r\n\r\nThough personally I rather like unicase fonts. And, I may be going
    on a wild tangent here, but with the continued advancement of the internet and
    associated technologies (such as e-mail, forums, online games and chatrooms) in
    which words are rarely capitalized anymore (and even punctuation is often ignored)
    the stage seems to be perfectly set for a unicase revival! Or maybe just the elimination
    of the upper case, who knows."
  created: '2005-10-30 23:26:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly, no matter what I or you think, you're still stuck with doing this!
    \ :-)\r\n\r\n> the internet ... in which words are rarely capitalized anymore\r\n\r\nThat's
    a good point. And a good angle, for your design. So maybe make a unicase font
    that's screen-friendly; maybe a pixelfont and/or maybe monospaced (like Nick Shinn's
    Panoptica, one of the very few unicase fonts that I actually like).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 02:30:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the props, Hrant.\r\n\r\nI might be partly responsible for this,
    as Zal is in Toronto.\r\nYes, time had something to do with it.\r\nThere are so
    many things for a design student to learn these days, and the first year I taught
    Type 4 (type design+poster+animation) in the York/Sheridan B.Des (in Toronto)
    some students had difficulty finishing all the characters. I thought that making
    the font unicase would both cut down production time, and provide a valuable background
    -- both depth of historical evolution, and the full scope of alphabetic forms.
    \r\n\r\nIn fact, by doing a unicase project -- research and development -- students
    gain a good understanding of why the two cases are the way they are. And it really
    focuses them on approaching typeface from the point of view of structure and pure
    form rather than style."
  created: '2005-10-31 16:11:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> by doing a unicase project \u2014 research and development \u2014 students\r\n>
    gain a good understanding of why the two cases are the way they are.\r\n\r\nThat
    seems to imply that unicase fonts are inherently intractable,\r\nexcept for modish
    display work... With which I agree of course.  :-)\r\n\r\nTo me, finishing a font
    is great, but since it's about education and\r\nnot production, I think it's better
    to lay a more sensical foundation.\r\n\r\n> it really focuses them on approaching
    typeface from the\r\n> point of view of structure and pure form rather than style.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems instead to subvert structure to style.\r\nAnd to me pure form and style
    are really the same.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 16:26:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Xal, please ignore Hrant. He is always trying to pick a fight with me.\r\n\r\nYour
    typeface looks great -- in alphabetic sequence.\r\nBut it's hard to know how well
    a font works unless you see it at work in a layout."
  created: '2005-10-31 16:45:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Zal, please don't ignore Nick. He will be giving you a grade.\r\n(And, to
    be fair, he makes nice display fonts.)\r\n\r\nI don't pick fights. I simply don't
    look the other way unless I owe the person something. What I do do is point out
    flaws, especially if it helps influentiable students see better. People, especially
    on Typophile, and especially students, persistently thank me for helping them.
    I don't know why one of your students who asks something on Typophile should be
    assumed to be unhelpable by me.\r\n\r\nUnicase fonts are one of the least useful
    things both to learners and users. It's beyond me how it can make sense to start
    a beginner on one, and it feels like I have no choice but to frantically wave
    the red flag.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 16:57:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">He will be giving you a grade.\r\n\r\nI'm not teaching the course at the
    moment.\r\n\r\n>I don\u2019t know why one of your students who asks something
    on Typophile should be assumed to be unhelpable by me.\r\n\r\nZal, Hrant Papazian
    is well known on the internet for his strong, frequent opinions and theories on
    typography. However, as with all internet experts, if you are to trust their opinions
    (rather than just be swayed by their arguments and polemic) you should also check
    out their credibility. Professionally speaking, a CV is a good place to start.
    For designers, you can ask \"do I like their work?\"."
  created: '2005-10-31 17:22:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> internet expert\r\n\r\nWrong on both.\r\n\r\n> For designers, you can ask
    \u201Cdo I like their work?\u201D.\r\n\r\nNo, that's for artists.\r\nFor designers,
    you should ask: do users find their work useful?\r\n\r\n(Poor Zal...)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 17:28:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">No, that\u2019s for artists.\r\n\r\nNo, if we're going to compare art with
    design, the relevant distinction is functionality (design) vs. meaning (art).
    Both art and design can be liked/disliked.\r\n\r\nOpinion is a personality thing,
    so what you feel about someone's work is a good way to see where they're coming
    from. "
  created: '2005-10-31 17:40:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Art is not about meaning, it's about expression. Personal expression which
    is only certain to be relevant to the expressor, and not necessarily users.\r\n\r\n>
    what you feel about someone\u2019s work is a\r\n> good way to see where they\u2019re
    coming from.\r\n\r\nOnly on the surface (towards Display). When it comes to Design
    (towards Text), feeling doesn't get you very far, and quite often will take you
    in a misguided direction. Feeling is certainly not unimportant in design, but
    demote thought/function, and you stray into selfish artistry.\r\n\r\nTo decide
    if a designer is useful or not, you have to think.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 17:44:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm thinking, what has this guy done to be dissing my text faces and the
    course I helped design?\r\n\r\nWhat are his educational qualifications in art,
    design, linguistics or typography?\r\nWhich companies has he worked for, learning
    the ropes?\r\nWhat published research has he done at which institutions?\r\nWho
    are his clients?\r\nWhat fonts has his foundry published?"
  created: '2005-10-31 18:58:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Since you've predetermined that I'm a clueless idiot who should be ignored
    by everybody concerning anything, the answers to those questions (most of which
    are known to people who matter to me, such as the Art Center College of Design)
    are likely to be abused by you. Your own degrees in Fine Fart mean virtually nothing
    to me - and I'm not alone; more important in Design are things like your apparent
    ignorance of the rules of French orthography concerning caps (which I corrected
    this morning), and your persistence in calling your daughter George (read: Eunoia-Text
    a text face).\r\n\r\nJust because I think you don't know what makes a text face
    (or what makes for good type education) doesn't justify the blinding rage of your
    bruised ego.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 19:18:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, it's not about me.\r\nWhy don't you publish a professional CV?\r\nOr
    is it a bit modest for a guy your age?\r\n\r\n>your apparent ignorance of the
    rules of French orthography concerning caps (which I corrected this morning)\r\n\r\nHrant,
    you are a little man who builds himself up by attacking people of real accomplishment
    and beating them in arguments by using slimeball ad hominen arguments, twisting
    their words.\r\n\r\nFor instance, you did not correct me on French orthography.\r\nI
    said, in reference to accent-free all caps, and the provision of a \"titling alternates\"
    feature, that \"this is a style used in many languages\". I did not say it is
    the only style, which was apparent within the context of titling alternates, however,
    in order to puff yourself up, you say you have corrected me.\r\n\r\nWhy don't
    you get a real education, a real job, do some real research, or really publish
    some fonts? \r\nWalk the talk, man. Really.\r\n\r\nSorry, Zal, I can't get this
    parasite off my back.\r\nHowever, let's see your font in a text setting, and maybe
    we can discuss that and get this thread on a more pleasant tack."
  created: '2005-10-31 20:39:47'
- author:
    name: zalmoxe
    picture: 111002
  body: "> Your typeface looks great \u2014 in alphabetic sequence.\r\n> But it\u2019s
    hard to know how well a font works unless\r\n> you see it at work in a layout.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the comments, Nick. I haven't finished working on the spacing and kerning
    yet, I will post a PDF with the font in a layout once that is done.\r\n\r\nAnd
    yep, this is for Type 4. I had no idea you were part of the faculty at York/Sheridan
    or that you designed the course. Incidentally, one of the fonts I chose to discuss
    during the research portion of the course was Panoptica. Small world!\r\n\r\n>
    maybe make a unicase font that\u2019s screen-friendly;\r\n> maybe a pixelfont
    and/or maybe monospaced\r\n\r\nThanks for the advice, hrant. In retrospect, a
    monospace font would've been a lot of fun. Unfortunately I don't think I can make
    it work at this point unless I re-create all the characters from scratch (which
    there isn't time for anymore). Screen-friendliness is lacking as well. I'll keep
    your suggestions in mind for a future typeface."
  created: '2005-11-01 01:42:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> or that you designed the course.\r\n\r\nIt was mostly in place before I
    joined. Darren Wilson, Sandra Gabriele, and Zab Hobart all contributed at the
    early stage, as did David Scadding. And it continues to evolve. The unicase idea
    was mine, although it occurred during a planning meeting I had with Sandra and
    Zab at Zab's studio, so it was kind of a group idea. It's certainly produced some
    astonishing results.\r\n\r\nFunnily, after the unicase concept had been introduced,
    it occurred to me that I hadn't actually designed such a face myself. With that
    in the back of my mind, when Christian Bok asked me to recommend a monowidth typeface
    for setting his poem \"Diamonds\", I thought, hey, I could design one, and make
    it unicase too. Hence Panoptica.\r\n\r\nI'll keep an eye open for your PDF."
  created: '2005-11-01 04:08:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The unicase idea was mine\r\n> I hadn\u2019t actually designed such a face
    myself.\r\n\r\nIt was in fact clear to me in advance: the type students of Toronto
    owe the wonderful opportunity to throw off their grasp of the proper relationship
    of the Latin UC and lc to your long-time idol, Licko. It's quite ironic that you
    make better fonts than her, but you still look up to her; probably because she's
    more stylish than you, and that's your ultimate goal in [design] life.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 05:05:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's not about me, Hrant.\r\nWhen's the Micro Foundry going to publish that
    2-point typeface?"
  created: '2005-11-01 05:37:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It\u2019s not about me, Hrant.\r\n\r\nPLEASE tell me you've adopted this
    mantra to replace the Emigre hogwash one.\r\n\r\n> When\u2019s the Micro Foundry
    going to publish that 2-point typeface?\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, not nearly as soon
    as you publish your next 2-bit one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 05:48:51'
- author:
    name: dylan
    picture: 128368
  body: "Building versus bantering...\r\n\r\nNick, I've seen your body of work. I've
    bought a chunk of it (Brown, Handsome Nib, Preface, Worldwide) and use it year
    'round. I also appreciate your opinion more than others on this site, as it's
    often served with grace. You talk it...and you walk it. You're building, in more
    ways than one.\r\n\r\nHrant, I've been trolling this forum for a few years and
    it's clear that you enjoy banter over building. And banter would be the kindest
    description. Over time, I've made a point to ignore your posts more often than
    not, as they seem to be a platform for spewing academic babble. I've learned so
    much from the fine minds that populate this site. However, the knowledge you bring
    to the forum is heavily soaked in smugness and pretenstion. Put another way, I
    never get the impression that you offer your knowledge to help. Instead, you're
    just wanting to be heard.\r\n\r\nIf you can, Hrant, try to objectively hear the
    tone of your own voice in these forums. Ask \u2014 and be willing to listen to
    \u2014 how others perceive you. Until then, I'll continue to enjoy the Typophile
    veterans who are walking through, building up, and genuinely contributing to a
    community of folks interested in typography.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 16:12:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I never get the impression that you offer your knowledge to help.\r\n\r\nWhile
    over the years maybe a hundred people have come forth, unprovoked, to tell me
    the opposite. Who is right? Are all those people idiots? Have I used my guile
    to manipulate people to listen to me? Ask yourself: do I tell people what they
    want to hear? Come on. Or maybe people like Nick are the ones with the golden
    tongue, effectively fabricating from their abilities in one area of design (display
    fonts, artistry, whatever) an apparent understanding in another area, which however
    they don't have? Each of us is good at different things. Nick is not my superset.\r\n\r\nOr
    maybe is it possible that individual differences make a person like somebody or
    not on a personal level, and thereby think he's wise or full of it? Is it a coincidence
    that the bulk of people who think I'm a clueless idiot also disagree with me on
    things outside type, notably politics?* Is it a coincidence that the bulk of these
    people are middle-aged Anglo males? I'm not necessarily saying there's anything
    wrong with that group - what I'm asking is that you open your eyes to how humans
    actually decide who to believe: based on emotion, more than logic - emotions deriving
    from their personal experience and circumstances, for which they -and certainly
    I- are largely not responsible. We are from different places, and that's not anybody's
    fault. THIS is the key to tolerance.\r\n\r\n* Are you the Randy who was a US Marine?\r\n\r\nTo
    understand [what you think of] other people, look inside. To grow, discipline
    yourself to ignore what you don't like about somebody, and take what's useful.
    That's what I do with Nick.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dylan
      picture: 128368
    body: "> To grow, discipline yourself to ignore what you don\u2019t like about
      somebody, and take what\u2019s useful. That\u2019s what I do with Nick.\r\n\r\nAnd
      that's what I'm trying to do with you when I'm at Typophile. It's just so damn
      hard to step around your ego.\r\n\r\nBy the way, no, I'm not Randy the former
      Marine. I'm Dylan, the former Marine who didn't vote for Bush."
    created: '2005-11-01 19:03:29'
  created: '2005-11-01 18:09:18'
- author:
    name: dylan
    picture: 128368
  body: "> Have I used my guile to manipulate people to listen to me?\r\n\r\nI wouldn't
    call it guile, Hrant. \r\n\r\n\r\n> Ask yourself: do I tell people what they want
    to hear?\r\n\r\nI asked myself, and the answer was no. You're missing the point.
    The tone of the majority of your replies within this forum has this air of superiority.
    Smugness. But you can't see it. And when someone (me, Nick, whoever) calls you
    on it, you (predictably) make a long-winded reply. Long-winded, so what. The problem
    isn't being a windbag. That's a harmless trait, overall. It's the fact that you're
    soaked in superiority, and when that gets you cornered, you toss the post-modern
    rhetoric grenade. Handy!\r\n\r\nWalk vs. Talk? Point: Shinn\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 18:58:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) I'm sorry for the tone. I certainly don't feel superior <cite>overall</cite>
    (just in some areas, over some people; like in readability, over Nick), and I
    try to always point out that I have a lot to learn from everybody, including Nick
    - you think I wouldn't like to make display fonts as accomplished as his? Nick
    on the other hand equates me with a \"parasite\" who should be totally ignored
    - this in the face of a lot of evidence that many people think the opposite...
    I mean, what proportion of the type crowd does he think are idiots? But you don't
    mind Nick's vicious egotripping, because I think you feel a kinship with him (at
    least much more than you do with me). Ask yourself if you have your objectivity
    under control.\r\n2) You're missing my main point.\r\n\r\nWalk the talk? Or is
    it pull the load? Different people like different things, Dylan. Some people are
    more into practice, others more into theory. The important thing is to not dismiss
    either outright - and I think you're doing that to theory. It's a classic battle,
    but the only way to grow is to realize you can't win/lose. Maybe that concept
    is alien to your upbringing - which would be, again, largely not your fault -
    but admitting a problem is the first step. This is not \"mumbo-jumbo\", it's life.\r\n\r\nAnd
    \"Dylan\", sorry. But you voted, right?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 19:12:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Let me see, I'm a Green Party member, and marched against the Iraq invasion,
    so that must mean Hrant's one of them thar gas guzzling Republicans.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I'm amazed at Hrant's condescending, advisory tone towards Dylan (reminds me of
    a similar experience). You dare to criticize Hrant? -- you must have a personality
    defect, try to grow! "
  created: '2005-11-01 19:15:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Must there be only one reason to dislike me? You can't stand\r\nme for a
    reason besides politics: I doubt you as an artist.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 19:19:30'
- author:
    name: dylan
    picture: 128368
  body: "> \"Different people like different things, Dylan. Some people are more into
    practice, others more into theory. The important thing is to not dismiss either
    outright - and I think you\u2019re doing that to theory.\"\r\n\r\nI'll give you
    that. Point taken. Point: Hrant.\r\n\r\n\r\n> \"...but the only way to grow is
    to realize you can\u2019t win/lose.\"\r\n\r\nAnother post-modern grenade, my friend.
    Easy to toss. Much more difficult to clean up the mess it makes. The concept of
    no win/no lose wasn't alien to my upbringing. However, I saw, firsthand and from
    both sides, that there are absolutes. People do win. And lose. Period. Growth
    comes from how you deal with an acknowledged win or a loss. (opens can of worms):
    I think the U.S. has become weaker because of post-modern thinking. Little League
    baseball that doesn't keep score, for example. Whaaa? You've got to be kidding
    me. Or Iraq... (worms spilling everywhere now). I think we \"win\" with money,
    not guts. What happens when the money runs out?\r\n\r\nAnd yes, I voted. And continue
    to vote with my wallet, all year long.\r\n\r\nCheers."
  created: '2005-11-01 19:32:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think the U.S. has become weaker because of post-modern thinking.\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    But because of other things too. Anyway, it's a good thing you an I are powerless
    (at least I think so) which means we're less responsible for the mess.  :-/\r\n\r\n>
    continue to vote with my wallet\r\n\r\nThat can be effective. But what about stuff
    that can't be bought - how do you encourage/discourage that? Maybe just by praising
    it, in public, often.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 20:41:57'
- author:
    name: guncry
    picture: 111106
  body: "ooh, I feel so much more enlightened!\r\nNow I do not know a whole lot about
    politics,but i like the unicase typeface,but the name could be better-maybe 'fired
    up theory buff'\r\n.....could work..."
  created: '2005-11-03 04:46:16'
- author:
    name: dylan
    picture: 128368
  body: "Yeah, let's get back to the task at hand...\r\n\r\nZal:\r\n\r\nI dig unicase
    typefaces. So keep us posted on your progress."
  created: '2005-11-03 13:50:46'
- author:
    name: zalmoxe
    picture: 111002
  body: "I attached a PDF of the font in a text setting to the original post (file
    name is pixel-version.pdf).\r\n\r\nLet me know what you think."
  created: '2005-11-13 22:11:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Am I seriously going to have to be the [only] person to crit this?\r\nSome
    people really feel zilch in the way of responsability I guess.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-26 01:20:38'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I like it so far\u2026 the top serif on the C is really wicked.\r\n\r\nBut
    the \"flow\" of the face is off. Words like \"WILL\" and \"MAKE\" look ok, but
    because of your angle play, \"YOUR\" looks more like \"Y\" \"OUR\" and in \"BLEED\",
    only \"EED\" feel like one cohesive unit.\r\n\r\nMust a work be a cohesive unit?
    How do prefixes, suffixes, or German-like compound words play here? This leads
    into Hrant's Bouma theories I guess\u2026 nothing should incite him to comment
    more than Bouma term-dropping!\r\n\r\nDon't worry Hrant, more people'll post here
    ;-)"
  created: '2005-11-26 10:35:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019ll keep an eye open for your PDF.\r\n\r\nYou were saying, Dan?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-10 19:42:29'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: That "one big diagonal slice" element that is the premise of the face isn't
    quite fulfilled by K and X, letters which one would expect to feature them most.
  created: '2005-12-10 21:47:07'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: 'How did I miss such an action packed thread back in the day? They don''t
    make ''em like they used to, I tell ya. If you''re a font historian, look no further:
    you''ve found the ultimate Hrant/Nick showdown thread.'
  created: '2010-07-09 10:56:26'
date: '2005-10-30 19:04:53'
files:
- filename: type-sample.gif
  uri: public://old-images/type-sample.gif
- filename: pixel-version.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/pixel-version.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Unicase typeface (school project)

---
