---
author:
  name: xtruthpath
body: "I like Serifa with brazilia\r\nLiberty with trade gothic...\r\n\r\nI think
  it could be a good thing to share!?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I have found myself using Tyfa (Storm) a lot lately. I''ve paired it with
    small amounts of Stainless or Amplitude (Font Bureau). I''ve also just completed
    a project where I combined Farnham (Font Bureau) with Whitney (Hoefler+Frere-Jones). '
  created: '2005-11-01 16:30:14'
- author:
    name: dylan
    picture: 128368
  body: "Farnham...I need to look into that one (uh-oh...better put my wallet away).
    \r\n\r\nGlad you mentioned it, Tiffany. "
  created: '2005-11-01 16:37:36'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: For something entirely different, I recently used Dearest (P22) for display
    and Dyna Grotesk RE (Storm) for text and Eldorado (Font Bureau) for the tiny stuff.
  created: '2005-11-01 16:50:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Folio Bold Condensed, Brush Script, Milwaukee (Font Diner), Futura Condensed.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Assets/Depts/Design/cold.jpg"
  created: '2005-11-01 16:52:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nThanks, I needed comic relief just now :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-01 21:38:25'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Dez. Did you look at his cover? I thought the same thing and then looked and
    though wow those really do work well for that application.
  created: '2005-11-01 22:05:54'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: I can't like anything that has Futura Condensed in it. I'm not allowed by
    my religion. O:)
  created: '2005-11-02 00:16:37'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "Just discovered the other day: Samba + Gotham Light (all caps).\r\n\r\nI
    won't mention the 10 blackletters for fear of being struck dead.\r\n\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2005-11-02 06:40:44'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I think I'm working out a Dolly/Formata mix at the moment.\r\n\r\nI like
    this thread. I'd like to see some informal samples posted of the pairings for
    fun."
  created: '2005-11-02 17:12:23'
- author:
    name: chronicle
    picture: 109738
  body: Bodoni Poster Italic and Avenir.
  created: '2005-11-04 21:32:55'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: Scala and Scala Sans. Not a very imaginative choice, but this pair works on
    so many levels.
  created: '2005-11-06 13:44:45'
- author:
    name: csr
    picture: 109870
  body: Miller/Meta has been almost too easy for me. Perhaps this thread will persuade
    me in a different direction.
  created: '2005-11-14 00:54:05'
- author:
    name: draga
  body: "hey guys here are some combinations that I've come across:\r\n 1)\tArcher
    with Verlag\r\n3)\tMeta with Minion\r\n4)\tTrajan with Gill sans\r\n5)\tFormata
    with dolly\r\n6)\tDolly with FF quadraat sans\r\n7)\tDin with Warnock\r\n8)\tDin
    with caecillia\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-16 09:04:54'
- author:
    name: draga
  body: wow axe trajan w/ gill sans, not sure how that ended up on my list ...
  created: '2008-11-16 10:57:26'
- author:
    name: dbonneville
    picture: 118651
  body: "Here are 19:\r\n\r\nhttp://bonfx.com/19-top-fonts-in-19-top-combinations/\r\n\r\nComplete
    with a PDF you can zoom in on. \r\n\r\nAlso, try:\r\n\r\nhttp://bonfx.com/14-top-typeface-and-font-combinations-resources/\r\n\r\nI
    have a font combination resource book coming out in 2010 and a iPhone App called
    \"Font Combos\" already on sale in the App Store.\r\n\r\nFrutiger with Minion
    is a fav. Same for Din with Warnock."
  created: '2010-06-09 17:45:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Doug, your recommendations, if \"19 top fonts\" is anything to go by, are
    safe, easy and boring.\r\nThe typefaces you recommend were almost all designed
    long ago, (none this century) and are published by corporations.\r\n\r\nI declare
    <em>my</em> bias: I am alive, design original typefaces, and own the foundry that
    publishes them.\r\n\r\nGet with the tour!"
  created: '2010-06-09 19:12:27'
- author:
    name: dbonneville
    picture: 118651
  body: "@ Nick: Indeed, they are safe and boring. Like a Toyota and an iPod Classic.
    That is kind of the point of this particular article. \r\n\r\nThe premise of 19
    combinations was based on 19 top fonts that I researched. Old, fuddy-duddy, or
    what-have-you, these ARE the fonts that most designers use on a routine basis.\r\n\r\nRead
    the original article (well, glance anyway):\r\n\r\nhttp://bonfx.com/19-top-fonts-most-preferred-by-graphic-designers-from-around-the-web/\r\n\r\nThe
    intro reads as follows:\r\n\r\n\"Out of the huge number of fonts used by graphic
    designers, there really is quite a small pool of fonts consistently chosen over
    and over again by graphic designers as their 'most used'. I took some time to
    search out as many 'top fonts for graphic designers' search results (plus variations)
    that I had time to visit. I spent several hours visiting blogs, forums, magazine
    websites, etc..\"\r\n\r\nThat said, post a link back to something you've done
    that could possibly slip into the list I came up with. Just because something
    isn't widely used doesn't mean it shouldn't be! I'd love to see it.\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-11 21:19:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the offer Doug, but the ad hoc inclusion of this critic's fonts
    won't appease me or make your list relevant.\r\n\r\n\"Several hours\" of internet
    aggregation may indeed provide a \"top fonts\" list, but the assumption that this
    corresponds to the fonts \"most preferred by graphic designers\" is completely
    spurious.\r\n\r\n<em>...these ARE the fonts that most designers use on a routine
    basis.</em>\r\n\r\nThat sounds authorative, but it's bullshit with no meaningful
    statistical basis. Who are these \"most designers\"? How big is your sample? Did
    you ask them to analyze their recent work and name the fonts used? Did you do
    a survey of web sites and print publications? Or competitions? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-13 19:56:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: A more meaningful attempt at a list would be, "Which fonts work for which
    subjects and audiences" but that would take some serious research and some rigorous
    testing, much tougher than a straw poll of a few friends.
  created: '2010-06-13 22:10:54'
- author:
    name: dbonneville
    picture: 118651
  body: "I think the list has <em>some</em> relevance. Two independent articles that
    came to very similar conclusions:\r\n\r\nhttp://abduzeedo.com/17-designers-favorite-fonts\r\n\r\nhttp://justcreativedesign.com/2009/03/04/the-top-100-best-fonts-of-all-time/\r\n\r\nI'm
    just reporting what I found by doing my own \"unscientific\" research. That is
    all.\r\n\r\nMy sample was big enough so that there was no meaningful (to me) distinction
    in the \"long tail\" of self-reporting \"favorite font\" data I could find on
    the web after a certain point. My own statistics showed that after the first 19
    fonts (20 and beyond, on my list) the \"tail\" shot out and I concluded my data
    was broad enough. I was not interested in doing more than that, since I wasn't
    interested in the tail so much as the consensus.\r\n\r\nIf you simply took the
    excellent results from the survey in the first article at Abduzeedo, and got rid
    of the long tail, you will find an extremely close overlap with my own research,
    perhaps close to 90%. And that is just with 17 designers.\r\n\r\nThe results from
    the second article, primarily based on sales, confirm nearly the same.\r\n\r\nOne
    last tidbit I just found from 2009:\r\n\r\nhttp://szstudiodesign.com/wordpress/typography/best-selling-fonts\r\n===\r\n\"According
    to fonts.com   and fontshop.com  the following fonts were best sellers in 2009:\r\n\r\nArial
    \u2022  ITC Franklin Gothic \u2022 Benton Sans \u2022 FF Meta \u2022 FF Din \u2022
    Eurostile \u2022  Gill Sans \u2022 DIN Next \u2022 Avenir \u2022 Futura \u2022
    Frutiger \u2022 Helvetica \u2022 Interstate \u2022 Akzidenz Grotesk \u2022 Univers
    \u2022 Trade Gothic \u2022 the Sans \u2022 Neo \u2022 SoHo \u2022  ITC Avant Garde
    Gothic \u2022 Rotis \u2022 Zapfino \u2022 Optima \u2022 Estillo \u2022 Helvetica
    Neue \u2022 Estilo Script \u2022 Waza\u2122 \u2022 Olicana Smooth OT \u2022 Louisiana
    \u2022 Metroscript OT\r\n\r\nThere are many more <strong>classic fonts</strong>
    than I would have imagined.\"\r\n===\r\n\r\nYou'll once again notice, based on
    recent sales stats from the vendors mentioned, the overlap with my own data is
    significant, as well as the reliance by many font purchasers on classic typefaces.
    \r\n\r\nSo, my data, while not clinical in a formal sense, are nonetheless devoid
    of willy-nilly spuriousness. It does reveal that most people buy boring, classic
    fonts though, according to many sources and not just mine."
  created: '2010-06-16 08:51:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the overlap with my own data is significant ... most people buy boring,
    classic fonts</em>\r\n\r\nCertainly, many vintage type designs are sold, and many
    designers say they use them (while no doubt keeping mum about Comic Sans and Papyrus).\r\n\r\nNonetheless,
    your \"top 19\" is exclusively comprised of old typefaces from corporate sellers.\r\nIt
    may well be, as you claim, \"19 top fonts most preferred by [some] graphic designers
    from around the web\", but it is missing at least ten typefaces from the \"tidbits\"
    list you mention, that were designed and published in the present millennium.\r\n\r\nWhy
    are you biased against contemporary, independent foundries?\r\n\r\nPerhaps it
    is because the majority of the fonts on your 19 came bundled with Adobe applications
    and the Mac OS?\r\n(I know, because that's how I acquired them.)\r\nAre you suggesting
    that designers' best practice is to stick with fonts from corporate publishers,
    that they acquired through bundling?\r\n\r\nTake a look at the MyFonts bestsellers,
    and get up to date.\r\n\r\nAlright\r\nBree\r\nKlavika\r\nNarziss\r\nOrigins\r\nBrandon
    Grotesque\r\nGeogrotesque\r\nChampion Script\r\nMuseo\r\nMrs Eaves\r\n&c.\r\n&c.\r\n\r\nAnd
    then there are the Hoefler and Frere-Jones types.\r\nI understand they are quite
    popular, and highly visible in the media, although they may not be AS popular
    with the majority of designers who use free, bundled, and less expensive fare.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-16 20:19:30'
- author:
    name: dbonneville
    picture: 118651
  body: "Nick: I'm not biased. Three of my own personal modern favorites aren't on
    the list only because the data put them in the \"long tail\" outside of my scope:\r\n\r\nMuseo\r\nGotham\r\nMrs.
    Eaves\r\n\r\n\r\nI went to MyFonts and found the 50 bestsellers for the last month
    (May 2010). If you compare this to the 19 I found to the MyFonts bestsellers list,
    you find:\r\n\r\n(* = overlap in top 20)\r\n(** = overlap in top 50)\r\n\r\n**
    Futura\r\nGaramond\r\n* Frutiger\r\n* Helvetica / Helvetica Neue\r\nMinion\r\nBodoni\r\nClarendon\r\nFranklin
    Gothic\r\n* Univers\r\nGill Sans\r\n* Akzidenz Grotesk\r\n* Avenir\r\nCaslon\r\n**
    Myriad\r\nFF Din\r\n** Trade Gothic\r\nBaskerville\r\nWarnock\r\nBembo\r\n\r\nThe
    Hoefler and Frere-Jones types still didn't register outside of the top 20 in my
    research, though I'm pretty sure Interstate was in the top 40 somewhere, as was
    Gotham. I was kind of surprised that Gotham wasn't in the top 20 actually. \r\n\r\nIt's
    a *very* good assumption that many designers get typefaces like Arno, Warnock,
    and Myriad with Adobe products and/or Mac OS. While not exciting, they are versatile
    and above all - included in your Adobe purchase and thus likely to occupy a soft
    spot in the hearts of many new designers.\r\n\r\nThe data is skewed towards corporate
    and otherwise free or low-cost classic faces due to distribution channels for
    them, like Adobe, having sheer numerical dominance. It's hard to compete with
    free. But unless the sales data at MyFonts is misleading, people are still going
    out of their way with cash money in hand to buy some of these oldies for reasons
    attributed to the overall usefulness of the typeface. If you are on a limited
    budget and are just starting out and want to acquire a type library, it makes
    good sense to get a Helvetica Neue expanded collection going. Gotta start somewhere.\r\n\r\n\r\n\"Why
    are you biased against contemporary, independent foundries?\"\r\n\r\nAgain, I'm
    just reporting the fact, not setting an agenda. \r\n\r\n\r\n\"Are you suggesting
    that designers' best practice is to stick with fonts from corporate publishers,
    that they acquired through bundling?\"\r\n\r\nI'm not suggesting that is a best
    practice, but I'm reporting it as a matter-of-fact practice.\r\n\r\nI think a
    best practice is to encourage designers to spend money on new typefaces especially
    from independent foundries, like they would on music gear if they were musicians,
    or on paints and materials if they were artists.\r\n\r\nI will be doing new research
    and blog content focused on independent foundries in the coming months.\r\n\r\nIt
    just happens that the last type book I purchased a few weeks back, \"Typeface:
    Classic Typography for Contemporary Design\" by Tamye Riggs is a real delight
    to read. The list of typefaces she works with contains 46 typefaces, all of which
    are on the lists and research I did. She got a lot of flack from her \"fellow
    type fanatics\" about what should and shouldn't be on the list. \r\n\r\nHer concluding
    sentence in the intro rings true for me:\r\n\r\n\"What is included is ultimately
    not the preference of the authors - the content evolved organically from a thorough
    exploration of typography in the design world.\"\r\n\r\nHer research mirrors mine
    nearly identically. She did more research than I, so I'll defer to her list, even
    though I did my research before her book came out earlier this year.\r\n\r\nBut
    the second paragraph of the intro is even better:\r\n\r\n\"I could see tremendous
    potential for such a type book. Let me preface this by saying that I'm a big fan
    of living type designers and I support their efforts as much as possible. But
    while plenty of graphic designers employ new typefaces in their projects, there
    is still a tremendous amount of stunning work being produced using type that originated
    in the twentieth centuries and much earlier.\"\r\n\r\nI couldn't say it any better
    myself, so I won't try!"
  created: '2010-06-17 07:36:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I think a best practice is to encourage designers to spend money on new
    typefaces especially from independent foundries, like they would on music gear
    if they were musicians, or on paints and materials if they were artists.\"\r\n\r\nIt
    is difficult to do this if every list that gets published in typography books
    completely ignores contemporary work!\r\nOf course good design work can be and
    has been done with older bundled fonts. Everybody has them if they have design
    software so the odds are way skewed. If you only look in a sand box, you will
    surely find sand.\r\n\r\nTamye's book has some indy fonts including mine but that
    is a rare exception because most books rely on biased collections of data."
  created: '2010-06-18 17:53:37'
- author:
    name: dbonneville
    picture: 118651
  body: "\"It is difficult to do this if every list that gets published in typography
    books completely ignores contemporary work!\"\r\n\r\nI can see how this looks
    like bias. Even if it is not pernicious, it has the same effect as being so. Good
    point.\r\n\r\nWhat typeface in Tamye's book is yours? I'd like to look it up so
    I can tell people I \"met\" the designer :)"
  created: '2010-06-18 18:21:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is on page 221, the poster on the top. The poster is my design but the
    fonts are OCR and FF Din, not mine.  The update of this poster uses one of my
    fonts instead of Din.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2010-06-18 18:29:54'
- author:
    name: dbonneville
    picture: 118651
  body: The "uncertain" u and n are very clever. Very cool!
  created: '2010-06-19 18:54:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Aggregating creates bias because not only does it report the long tail, it
    feeds it.\r\n\r\nConsider <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontlist/n/jason_santa_marias_favorite_fonts/?utm_source=NewsletterJune8&utm_medium=web&utm_content=JSMFavoriteFonts&utm_term=em&utm_campaign=DesignerSantaMaria\">Jason
    Santa Maria's favorite fonts</a>, as featured at FontShop.\r\n\r\nHe has chosen
    several classics, such as Garamond and Trade Gothic, which are on many people's
    lists.\r\nHe has also chosen recent fare, such as Freight, Skolar, and Vista Sans,
    which are less broadly established.\r\n\r\nSo even though a poll of designers
    may reveal that their font choices are 50/50 classic/new, because the old faces
    come from a small stable of classics, whereas the new are a more disparate selection,
    the old faces will beat out the new in a \"most preferred\" list.\r\n\r\nBut this
    is a lie, because it gives the impression that most designers prefer classics
    exclusively.\r\n\r\nDoug, you have used the metaphor of the long tail: abide by
    it, and find a way to reflect the truth that together, the belly and the tail
    are bigger than the head. This is the nature of the digital font beast.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-06-20 07:09:39'
- author:
    name: dbonneville
    picture: 118651
  body: "@ Nick:\r\n\r\nI see your point. I would emphasize that the data is not a
    lie, but rather, it represents only one aspect of a complex picture to the exclusion
    of another from a particular perspective. That is nearly unavoidable, as the intro
    to Tamye's book suggests, with any discussion about.\r\n\r\nYou are right in saying
    the picture is not so simple. The problem, though, is that the other aspects (facets
    of the \"long tail\") are indeed much, much harder to represent. It's like trying
    to quantify \"The top 10 independent Bed & Breakfast Inns\": it just can't be
    done because they are so localized and specialized, that \"top\" doesn't apply.
    You could say \"10 great independent Bed & Breakfast Inns\", but that would not
    be data; it would be opinion.\r\n\r\nI guess it's how you read the data - the
    meta narrative surrounding the facts."
  created: '2010-06-21 18:31:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If you're talking about mixing fonts, I would say that any two fonts can
    be mixed, according to one principle or other.\r\nSo the principle is the important
    thing. (And in a way, a named font represents a principle, especially if it is
    one that has entered the collective conscious as an archetype, through many revivals
    at different hands--i.e. a classic.)\r\n\r\nDon't name each B&B, but you will
    have to make some effort at defining categories in an abstract way. Rather than
    \"like Helvetica\", say Swiss. And don't get so hung up on \"top\". \r\n\r\nWhere
    is the beauty of serendipity and unprejudiced encouragement to people to construct
    their own strange and unprecedented meanings, in the formulaic world of If You
    Liked That You'll Like This?"
  created: '2010-06-21 20:09:21'
- author:
    name: dbonneville
    picture: 118651
  body: "\"Where is the beauty of serendipity and unprejudiced encouragement to people
    to construct their own strange and unprecedented meanings...\"\r\n\r\nBeautifully
    put - that is where design is most interesting. \r\n\r\nThere is a language involved
    in all this, and exposing curious people to the common denominators is helpful
    for learning the basics, specifically when they are asking about the basics. Before
    serendipity can happen, there must be a common language to facilitate it: my little
    article is geared towards that \"boring\" common denominator that Google tells
    me people are asking about.\r\n\r\nAll that said, you are making me think about
    where I could take this to help facilitate the unexpected."
  created: '2010-06-21 20:24:45'
date: '2005-10-31 02:32:54'
node_type: forum
title: What is your best fonts mix

---
