---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: "In 1980 the Greek government decreed that the [[polytonic]] alphabet would
  be replaced by the simplified [[monotonic]] system.\r\n\r\nPrior to that, there
  had been a popular/commercial movement towards this, featuring various forms of
  the simplified [[tonos]] accent -- dots, vertical dashes, and triangles.\r\n\r\nIn
  1982 the Greek government (perhaps in a move to combat the tackyness of many of
  these accents nouveaux) decreed that the tonos would be angled, like an acute accent.
  This has subsequently become the Unicode standard.\r\n\r\nHOWEVER\r\n\r\nThe tonos
  in Lucida Grande (Apple OS font) is a small vertical dash, quite different from
  the acute accent.\r\nThe tonos in various Adobe Pro fonts, such as Minion and Myriad,
  is slightly angled a few degrees off vertical, again quite distinct from the acute.\r\n\r\nSO
  \r\n\r\nIs this like the Euro symbol situation, where a typographic standard has
  been set, but found wanting and freely interpreted in practice?"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I always thought the Tonos was part way between the angle of the acute and
    the vertical.  Hopefully the Greek authorities will chime in on this one (I don't
    mean the Junta :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-30 23:53:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gerry Leonidis spoke highly of the new Adobe Garamond Premium Pro in terms
    of Greek.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-10-30 23:54:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The monotonic tonos is identical to the ploytonic oxia, and should have the
    same form. Essentially, it is an acute accent (indeed, the Unicode combining diacritical
    mark for the oxia <em>is</em> the combining acute), but in traditional Greek types
    it tends to be steep and often taller than the Latin acute.
  created: '2005-10-31 16:51:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Well yes, but this Unicode standard doesn't appear to have much of a leg to
    stand on if it is being ignored by Apple (Lucida), Adobe (Minion, Myriad, etc.)
    and Microsoft (Tahoma)!
  created: '2005-10-31 17:03:43'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "Nick, I see you are dabbling in Greek ; good! I will add my two bits in relative
    haste, under great pressure of time. (I've got it also on my to-do list to respond
    to the thread about caps, but boy do you and Hrant make it difficult to keep up...)
    So, here goes. \r\n\r\nFirstly, the Greek government would not give a monkey's
    for the aesthetics of the monotonic accent. The passing of monotonic in 1981 was
    one chapter in a very long debate going back several decades, but precipitated
    by politics and concerns by the local publishing industry, in the face of imminent
    capital investment and associated human resources costs. With hindsight, keeping
    in mind that this happened only three years before the DTP explosion (read \"me
    and my dog in my living room are a service bureau\") which was built on 8-bit
    fonts, this paved the way to font piracy and localisation of the most abysmal
    quality. \r\n\r\nAll the Greek reference works have stated, from day one, that
    the monotonic tonos is identical to a polytonic acute. Any dots, triangles, dashes,
    and such are wrong, ugly, and inappropriate for the formal characteristics of
    the script. \r\n\r\nIn reality, this must be tempered by the context in which
    it was expressed. Therefore, it is acceptable to design the tonos at a slightly
    different angle, length, and weight from the acute, since the tonos sits alone
    over vowels, and does not need to accommodate breathings -- but must always be
    right-inclined. My personal view is that diacritics should be designed to relate
    in stroke thickness and modulation to the lower-case glyphs; in other words, make
    them loud and clear. \r\n\r\nSo, Unicode is correct in this. Unfortunately, Lucida
    Grande is as poor in the Greek as it is good in the Latin, so Mac users do not
    reference out of the box.\r\n\r\nYou're doing well to be looking at what others
    have done, but you  should be casting your eyes on a wider range of printed material,
    and -- why not? -- even writing examples.  \r\n"
  created: '2005-11-02 02:45:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for your input Gerry, and respect for your work (with Mr Hudson et
    al) on the ClearType fonts -- the language support of the project, to me at least,
    overshadows the technological aspect. I'm sure it will provide a huge boost to
    Greek and Cyrillic typography, by opening up the design space available to typographers
    there (without meaning to be patronizing to local type designers) with new fonts
    with italics, bold, and small caps. I've also been impressed with Adobe and Typotheque's
    committment to supporting polytonic.\r\n\r\nWhile I had originally intended to
    produce only a monotonic font, I've been persuaded to go the whole hog. \r\n\r\nWould
    I be correct in assuming that, in creating a polytonic font, I can use Gentium
    and Minion Pro as models for the unicode values and accents?\r\n\r\nThe typeface
    I'm working on is a revival of a roman didone, from c.1870, featuring a strong
    vertical stress and absence of pen-written ductus. The Greek characters are new,
    as I was unable to discover any precedent that I considered to be sufficiently
    \"modern\".  It seems to me that the correct tonos for monotonic use here is vertical.
    That would be no good for polytonic, as the tonos there must be angled, working
    in conjunction with the grave. Presently, I'm leaning towards the idea of making
    the text faces polytonic, and the display faces monotonic, with vertical tonos.
    A bit of a shame, as I liked the look of the vertical tonos in text. Is it really
    so inappropriate?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.shinntype.com/Albany.pdf"
  created: '2005-11-02 05:49:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Well yes, but this Unicode standard doesn\u2019t appear to have much
    of a leg to stand on if it is being ignored by Apple (Lucida), Adobe (Minion,
    Myriad, etc.) and Microsoft (Tahoma)!</em>\r\n\r\nThe tonos marks in Minion and
    Myriad differ from the oxia accents, yes, but they are right-leaning, which is
    the main thing. What I think is a mistake is the fully vertical form.\r\n\r\nIt
    is worth bearing in mind that Chuck Bigelow, Chris Holmes and Matthew Carter all
    made their first Greek types back when things like the triangle form in Helvetica
    Greek were all the rage. A lot has happened in Greek type design since then. I've
    recently been collecting samples of various demestica versions of Helvetica from
    Greece, and have noticed that most of these have rejected the old triangle form
    in favour of something more acute-like."
  created: '2005-11-02 08:15:42'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: "<cite>The typeface I\u2019m working on is a revival of a roman didone, from
    c.1870, featuring a strong vertical stress and absence of pen-written ductus.
    The Greek characters are new, as I was unable to discover any precedent that I
    considered to be sufficiently \u201Cmodern\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nNick, thanks for
    the peek. I only will apologise in advance for saying what I have to in a few
    sentences only, and hope it does not come across too dogmatic. \r\n\r\nI think
    you are taking \"Modern\" as it applies to the Latin script and imposing it on
    the Greek script, ignoring typographic interpretations of the script at the time.
    The Didots' contribution to the development of Greek typeface design is seminal,
    and very much <em>not</em> in a \"strong vertical stress and absence of pen-written
    ductus\". If you are not in a hurry, I could send you some images of the real
    thing in the next few days. \r\n\r\nAs it looks on your PDF, the Greek looks like
    an update of the misguided genre set out by Times Greek in the late fifties. I
    would be very interested to see what you would come up with if you loosened up
    your take on the script. To borrow from Dwiggins, have a couple of tumblers, then
    write with a soft-ish nib <em>without</em> resting your arm on the surface."
  created: '2005-11-02 12:20:15'
- author:
    name: gerry_leonidas
    picture: 128150
  body: 'Forgot to say: it is great that you will be producing polytonic! '
  created: '2005-11-02 14:04:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Gerry, perhaps it is presumptuous of me to have my own ideas of what a Greek
    type may be, not being a Greek, but I have studied a wide range of interpretations,
    including the Didots', and have, as I said, been unable to find a \"modern\" precedent
    fully suited to match the formal qualities of the mid 19th century modern roman,
    although Bodoni's Greek of c.1790, which does in fact have a pronounced vertical
    stress, led me to believe that my direction was not completely anachronistic (GB
    being more of an inspiration than the Times).\r\n\r\nBTW, the italic of Albany
    will feature the more traditional pen-driven \"Baroque\" (to use Bringhurst's
    term for 18th century italics of varied stress angle) ductus. This will establish
    a considerable contrast between the upright and slanted styles, the lack of which
    is presently IMO a weakness of Greek serifed typography. One of the riches of
    serifed western type is the stylistic contrast between roman and italic. In fact,
    many people (although not I) consider slanted roman to be a second-rate form of
    oblique emphasis, a failed modernist experiment (note Optima Nova Italic). I should
    point out that different italic forms do exist in the traditional Monotype Greek
    90, they are nicely done, but quite subtle. This is also the case with Minion
    Pro. The ClearType Greek italics have alternate more-cursive forms of beta and
    theta (although not the curly rho), but are basically stylistically slanted versions
    of the roman glyphs. So this stiff-arsed Albany roman serves to set up the loose
    italic, which I'm working on.   \r\n\r\nI approached the design of this typeface
    with an eye on history and culture, but also philosophically as a problem in pure
    design. At its most basic, my design argument is this: if the Roman lower case,
    derived from pen writing as surely as is the Greek, can exist with or without
    serifs, why can't the Greek? I'm not taking it to that extreme (yet), but that's
    the couple-of-tumblers, \"why not?\" logic at back of it.\r\n\r\nI'm not concerned
    that modernizing, or borrowing typographic techniques first invented in the West,
    is somehow the dreaded Latinizing. After all, if Western concepts like a slanted
    emphasis style, small caps, and bold face are OK, the cat is out of the bag, ennit?
    And thanks for the sans.\r\n\r\nThere seems to be a confusion in Greek typology
    between alphabetic form and typeface style. The common typeface during the 20th
    century was known as \"Plain\", or by its Monotype designation, Greek 90. In the
    West, a similar situation had existed, prior to the 1890s, after which typefaces
    began to be known by their designer's name. A sense of historical relativism structured
    this understanding, and led to an explosion of stylistic diversity, fostered by
    eclectics such as Morris Benton and Stanley Morison. To categorize those Greek
    faces which have provided stylistic diversity, such as Times Greek, as \"misguided\",
    is restrictive. Sure, the Elzevier types, of which Times is an example, aren't
    considered as posh fonts, but not every typeface has to be an aristocrat. In some
    circles, ITC Garamond is considered a travesty, but it has proven a successful
    and useful face, and while some may consider it misguided, it is not wrong in
    the sense that you are implying a post-ductus Greek lower case is.\r\n\r\nTo me,
    the \"gestural\" quality of the Greek alphabet which underlies the ClearType Greeks
    is a myth. I don't deny that it has great historical authenticity, and provides
    a marvelous corporate stylistic consistency, but it is not the only legitimate
    road forward.\r\n\r\nI take it then, that given the \"misguided\" nature of my
    typeface, an equally misguided vertical tonos would be quite appropriate?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-02 19:15:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick, you've hit the Greek upright vs. italic problem pretty squarely. I
    described it this way to Gerry when I was working on Constantia: in terms of increasing
    cursivity you get\r\n\r\nLatin upright -> Greek upright -> Greek italic -> Latin
    italic\r\n\r\nIf you follow what you've characterised as a 'gestural' approach
    to Greek, you end up with a design that is more cursive than the corresponding
    Latin. As I've stated elsewhere, I think this is appropriate. The problem then
    is how to distinguish the italic, other than by slant alone. I think there are
    things that can be done in the italic itself -- as opposed to pushing the upright
    to be less cursive --, and I'm quite impressed with what Robert Slimbach has done
    with the Garamond Premier Pro upright and italic Greeks in this regard. That said,
    I'm all for typeface design as a laboratory, and look forward to seeing the Albany
    italic."
  created: '2005-11-02 20:58:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">more cursive than the corresponding Latin. As I\u2019ve stated elsewhere,
    I think this is appropriate.\r\n\r\nYou've demonstrated it perfectly in Constantia,
    with sufficient heft to not be outweighed by the Latin.\r\n\r\nAnd I agree with
    you that there is much that can be done to differentiate the italic, but I  think
    it may also be appropriate to take an alternate route with upright Greek, in a
    face of extremes such as this kind of modern.\r\n\r\n>Garamond Premier Pro upright
    and italic Greeks\r\n\r\nI haven't checked out the Italic yet, but I just had
    a look at the PDF for the upright, and noted that the monotonic characters have
    a vertical tonos, whereas the polytonic versions of the same character have an
    acute tonos. I don't have the font, so I'm wondering how that's handled. A stylistic
    alternate?"
  created: '2005-11-02 23:17:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nI think you have done a terrific job! The fit with the latin and
    the color is excellent. The text at the bottom where the 2 scripts meet is telling.
    \ The proof is in the pudding and you have shown that. The only thing that bothers
    me is the latin M as the Greek cap Mu and that is a small thing and just me.  I
    feel like the strokes should not be vertical in theMu and that it looks a bit
    too condensed for the rest of the Greek. Also, the vertical tonos creates too
    much symmetry for me. It becomes too much part of the glyph below it. This may
    be because I just am so unaccustomed to seeing it vertical and it might grow on
    me.\r\nI like the modern didone feel!  I don't think that the calligraphic model
    is the only one to be followed in Greek or in any other script. We don't make
    roman capitals to look like they have been chiseled into marble either. I think
    you really have something here.\r\nBut what do I know, I am just one of your Souvlaki
    eating buddies:-)\r\nChrisL\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NicksGreek.gif]"
  created: '2005-11-02 23:44:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the props, Chris -- I'm thinking Albany and Leporello Black would
    team up nicely in Greek. Care to swap?\r\n\r\nI am going to go with the angled
    tonos, because I've realized that it's an integral part of polytonic (or \"Regular
    Greek\" as Yannis Haralambous calls it). Also, without spacious leading the vertical
    tonos melds into descenders on the above line, so an angled tonos allows tighter
    leading. Doing a separate version for polytonic and monotonic in the same font,
    as per Adobe Garamond Pro, is a bit of a stretch for me. But I will make the display
    version monotonic with vertical tonos, what the heck.\r\n\r\nAs for the Mu, this
    goes back to another thread, concerning whether to have Greek caps that are different
    from the Latin, for better balance between the cases. The sample text I used here
    is from an online translation lesson (except I changed the Latin name from Carrefour
    to Morisons), representing a typical piece of commercial writing, a PR release,
    mixing languages. The situation here would be strange with different Ms for the
    different languages, as the sound is the same, so that led me to stick with the
    common glyphs. I hear you, this is an odd Mu, but it is also a bit of a strange
    M in the original face this revival is based on, so I'm afraid I can't change
    it (doing a revival makes those decisions for one)."
  created: '2005-11-03 01:22:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I\u2019m thinking Albany and Leporello Black would team up nicely in
    Greek. Care to swap?\"\r\n\r\nSounds like a plan! I was always a sucker for a
    boney Didoni \"I've got a girl named Boney Didodoni, she's got Tonos like a stick
    of old Marconi...\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-03 02:54:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I haven\u2019t checked out the [Garamond Premier Pro] Italic yet, but
    I just had a look at the PDF for the upright, and noted that the monotonic characters
    have a vertical tonos, whereas the polytonic versions of the same character have
    an acute tonos. I don\u2019t have the font, so I\u2019m wondering how that\u2019s
    handled. A stylistic alternate?</em>\r\n\r\nThe tonos isn't totally upright: it
    leans a little to the right. This follows Robert's approach in Minion and Myriad
    also (I'm guessing he was largely responsible for the Myriad Greek). As I've said,
    I don't see any reason for the tonos to differ from the polytonic oxia. If it
    is going to differ, as it does in these Adobe designs, then it should still resemble
    the oxia/acute in form -- i.e. not be a triangle, circle, square, etc. -- and
    should still lean to the right.\r\n\r\nA nice, authentically renaissance touch
    in Garamond Premier Pro: the Greek accents are not at the same height on all letters
    so, for example, the tonos on the alpha and eta sits a little lower than one the
    epsilon and iota. The vertical placement varies relative to the to the height
    of the letter at the point of horizontal alignment."
  created: '2005-11-03 07:10:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I feel like the strokes should not be vertical in theMu and that it looks
    a bit too condensed for the rest of the Greek.</em>\r\n\r\nIronically, I recently
    found myself having to straighten the sides of a Greek uppercase Mu, contrary
    to the gently sloped left side of my Latin M. The reason for this is that the
    font is designed for scholarship and I needed a clear distinction between the
    Mu and the ancient letter Shan, which is very similar to the Mu. After some discussion
    with Gerry and another font developer who has done a lot of work for classical
    and Biblical scholarship, I decided that the sloped sides were appropriate to
    the Shan and that the Mu should be straighter for contrast."
  created: '2005-11-03 07:14:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Ironically, I recently found myself having to straighten the sides of a
    Greek uppercase Mu, contrary to the gently sloped left side of my Latin M\"\r\n\r\nJohn,
    I had no scholarly reason. I was trying to distinguish between the M and the Mu
    as well but felt the angles sides would feel more comfortable with the general
    tendency of Greek to be more irregular looking (less rectilinear?) than latin.
    Nick mentioned he is  trying to be true to the revival and that made the decision
    for him.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-03 13:10:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I would be very interested to see what you would come up with if you loosened
    up your take on the script. To borrow from Dwiggins, have a couple of tumblers,
    then write with a soft-ish nib without resting your arm on the surface.\r\n\r\nGerry,
    I'm not doing a script font. \r\nAnd spending the time to take my rusty Greek
    hand beyond its arrested development, into cursive, is not something I can afford
    to do.\r\nEven so, I'm not sure writing, or drawing even, has a necessary involvement
    with the process of type design these days.\r\n\r\nHowever, I do have a sense
    of where you're coming from, and of the importance of the written form to Greek
    text. \r\n\r\nLook at it this way: imagine a culture takes the best available
    technology and mechanizes writing. It happened during the incunabula. But forget
    about that, and all the baggage of the western typographic tradition. Look at
    Greek writing now (both classical and vernacular), and the OpenType format. Start
    from scratch. Use contextual alternates at the level of sophistication created
    by Adam Twardoch in Zapfino Extra Pro, to capture the full cursive quality of
    the writing. Either work subjectively, and base your typeface on your own hand,
    or go into the field and research how people write today in Greek (and I mean
    a proper ethnographic study). I'd be very, very, interested to see what you would
    come up with. "
  created: '2005-11-03 16:26:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Either work subjectively, and base your typeface on your own hand, or
    go into the field and research how people write today in Greek (and I mean a proper
    ethnographic study). I\u2019d be very, very, interested to see what you would
    come up with.</em>\r\n\r\nSegoe Script Greek."
  created: '2005-11-03 17:20:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Segoe Script Greek.\r\n\r\nWhere can I see this?"
  created: '2005-11-03 17:45:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I have not seen any sample of the Greek online. Perhaps if Si Daniels is
    reading this he could point us to something. Carl Crossgrove gave a presentation
    on the Segoe Script OT Layout stuff at the ATypI type tech forum in Helsinki,
    which included an overview of the Greek. It is based, with Gerry's help, on fairly
    typical contemporary Greek handwriting.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-03 18:38:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Sorry, only just spotted this thread. Nick please send me your sample text
    and I'll set it using the latest version of the font and send back an image.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2005-11-08 18:15:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "To conclusively update my explorations and experiments:\r\n\r\n1. The vertical
    tonos (in monotonic setting) was abandoned, for the primary reason that in an
    upright font, tightly leaded, such a tonos becomes too easily entangled and confused
    with the (serifless) descenders of the line above.\r\n\r\n2. There are several
    logical reasons for a vertical tonos, but they are all trumped by the above consideration.
    Most obviously, the reform movement sought to replace all accents -- left, right,
    etc -- with a generic accent, so the vertical form (as expressed in the triangle)
    made sense, being neither sharp nor flat. However, it's worth considering Hungarian,
    Polish, etc., which have only one direction of accent, acutely angled. A vestige
    of the written form? Perhaps, but also typographically functional as per point
    (1) above. \r\n\r\n3. The steeply angled tonos in Adobe Greek fonts (Minion, Myriad)
    is not a problem there, because I do not believe they are designed for tight leading
    (Utopia -- a \"news\" face -- is much bigger on the body). However, it is a parameter
    of Albany, the face I'm developing, that it should be able to be set solid with
    extenders almost touching, and a vertical tonos does not work well in that situation.\r\n\r\n4.
    I found a good source of polytonic text on the Internet (Smyth's Grammar), but
    it uses the monotonic versions of the tonos-accented characters, rather than the
    proper polytonic versions. How do I know? Because in fonts such as Minion Pro,
    the polytonic tonos is angled more vertically, whereas the monotonic version is
    more like an acute. So, it makes sense to use the same-angled tonos for monotonic
    and polytonic, rather than create unnecessary sophistication, which may not work
    in real-world situations like this.\r\n\r\n5. Some \"cheating\" of the tonos angle
    is appropriate in the compound accents."
  created: '2005-11-22 03:59:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I found a good source of polytonic text on the Internet (Smyth\u2019s
    Grammar), but it uses the monotonic versions of the tonos-accented characters,
    rather than the proper polytonic versions. How do I know? Because in fonts such
    as Minion Pro, the polytonic tonos is angled more vertically, whereas the monotonic
    version is more like an acute. So, it makes sense to use the same-angled tonos
    for monotonic and polytonic, rather than create unnecessary sophistication, which
    may not work in real-world situations like this.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is sound analysis.\r\n\r\nNote
    that this is not necessarily simply a case of a user choosing to use the tonos
    diacritic characters to encode the oxia diacritics: alpha with oxia (U+1F71, \u1F71)
    has a canonical decomposition to alpha with tonos (U+03AC, \u03AC); i.e. Unicode
    considers them to be identical (which they are, of course, grammatically and historically),
    and normalisation may result in decomposition of oxia diacritics to tonos diacritics.
    Note also that tonos and oxia share the same combining mark encoding (U+0301,
    the combining acute accent*), which means that any design distinction between
    the two will simply disappear if fully decomposed normalisation is applied. Since
    text may be subject to different kinds of normalisation, you have no way of anticipating
    how the diacritics will be displayed unless you make the tonos and oxia identical.\r\n\r\n\r\n*
    Note that in a bi-script, Latin and Greek font, it may be necessary to include
    two forms for U+0301 (and other common combining mark characters), appropriately
    linked to each script/language using the 'locl' feature. This is one of the reasons
    why I am shipping a separate SBL Greek font in addition to including Greek support
    in SBL BibLit, so I can directly encode the combining tonos glyph as U+0301, the
    combining varia as U+0300, etc., in the former."
  created: '2006-01-02 19:13:28'
date: '2005-10-30 23:13:19'
title: Angle of the tonos?

---
