---
author:
  name: Will Miller
  picture: 109722
body: "hi all, a buddy of mine here at our office is working on a redesign of one
  of our small mags (small as in small format...roughly 9\"x5\") he was thinking of
  trying out variations of futura for headlines (thin to thick) but could not settle
  on a good solution for a body text. he asked me and i couldn't think of anything
  suitable off the top of my head so i'd like a little help. anyone have some good
  suggestions?\r\n\r\nbest\r\n-will"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: For a consistently old-fashioned look, Bodoni or Century, which were Futura's
    traditional companions.
  created: '2005-10-31 15:50:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Something a bit rigid, but structurally oldstyle.\r\n\r\nBut no Bodoni for
    text please (unless it's about sadomasochism).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 16:23:16'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Will how are you going to use the Futura? Initial cap and lower case or all
    caps. I think the color of the text will be important depending on the weight
    of Futura you are thinking of. '
  created: '2005-10-31 21:24:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">But no Bodoni for text please\r\n\r\nThis recommendation based on Hrant's
    vast experience in designing editorial publications :-)"
  created: '2005-10-31 22:11:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That smiley is about as authentic as Worldwide.\r\n\r\nNot using Bodoni for
    more than a paragraph at a time is a no-brainer.\r\nExcept for somebody from the
    Use Whatever Erects Your Artistic Nipples school.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 22:58:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Except for somebody... \r\n\r\nIt's not about me, Hrant, it's about you.
    \r\nDesigned any publications recently?\r\nHow many font licences you sold this
    month?"
  created: '2005-10-31 23:22:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "The small mag sounds more like a brochure, of sorts. I would guess some Bodoni-esque
    typefaces would work. \r\n\r\nI'll disagree with you, Hrant. Bodoni for books
    is awful, but for some magazine work it can be interesting and good."
  created: '2005-10-31 23:27:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, it's about craft.\r\n(And as if I'm the only person who thinks Bodoni
    is anti-text...)\r\n\r\nOne thing about me though: I'm not enough of an egomaniacal
    bigot to think that somebody is inferior to me because he does different things.
    And something about you: artistes cannot tolerate criticism; once you doubt them,
    they either cut their ear off, or they try to cut yours.\r\n\r\nTo me, society
    at large doesn't really need a\r\nfailed-artist-turned-designer-faking-usefulness,\r\nexcept
    maybe to sell more crap to dumb consumers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 23:36:01'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Ah. C'mon. I am just trying to diffuse the anger. Right. You aren't the only
    person who thinks Bodoni is a bad choice for text. And we are just giving our
    opinions. And it is all about subjectivity. \r\n\r\nI think Bodoni has been used
    successfully in smaller magazines, brochures and corporate annuals. However, a
    version such as Bauer Bodoni would NOT be a good version for anything but display.
    You do need to find a version, such as ITC 12, that has had the contrast minimized.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-10-31 23:41:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">the anger\r\n\r\nI'm not angry. I'm happy.\r\nI've been the brunt of Hrant's
    ad hominem attacks for two years now, and I've decided to change my strategy from
    defending myself against his homophobic accusations of my being an \"artiste\",
    and give him a taste of his own medicine. It feels better than soaking up the
    punches.\r\n\r\nSo, he thinks my suggestion of Bodoni is \"sadomasochistic\"?
    I won't defend my suggestion, rather, I'm asking why anyone would take any notice
    of what a loudmouth with such a skimpy CV has to say."
  created: '2005-11-01 00:02:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019ve decided to change my strategy\r\n\r\nStrategy? What's most pathetic
    is that you think this is some kind of head-butting match, something you can win
    or lose. How typical, interested much more in digging a deeper trench and hoarding
    more gold, rather than growing, coexisting, <cite>tolerating</cite>. This explains
    how you named the Eunoia-AllegedlyForText thread, as well as specific remarks
    you've made in the past. Well, to me, this is not a head-butting match, because
    I for one am oblivious to your head! Striking you down is a waste of my time;
    what I'm trying to do instead is learn and teach, exposing phoney craft along
    the way. So it's not you, it's your ideas.\r\n\r\nBut of course this wonderful
    insight into your head does explain quite well why Tiffany's \"Bodoni for books
    is awful\" goes Unpunished. Fairness and a spine are not requirements for painting
    pretty fonts.\r\n\r\nThe good news? Now that you think you're acting like me (boggles
    the mind...) maybe you'll stop your charactersitc <cite>incessant</cite> bitchy,
    whiny hissy-fits about being attacked. That's really your worst trait.\r\n\r\n>
    It feels better\r\n\r\nTo an artiste, the Most Important Thing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 01:52:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, it's not about me any more.\r\nTell us about you.\r\nWhen is the internet
    type design \"expert\" actually going to publish some fonts, rather than just
    criticize other people's?\r\nWhen are you going to do your own research into reading
    theory, rather than just conjuring up your bouma fantasies out of thin air?"
  created: '2005-11-01 03:49:44'
- author:
    name: Jon Whipple
    picture: 110113
  body: "Hi Will,\r\n\r\nJust how much text is being set on a page? Is it a relatively
    long line? I ask because if the line length is short and the text reads in bite-sized
    chunks why not use Futura throughout? Heavy and light. Depending on how its used
    it could be all right.\r\n\r\nIf it's not in small parts and needs to read longer,
    then a stiff serif would be a good choice like maybe Storm's <a href=\"http://www.stormtype.com/walbaum.html\">Walbaum</a>
    or maybe <a href=\"http://www.stormtype.com/pentagraf.html\">Pentagraf</a>?\r\n\r\nHope
    there's something here to hang your hat on.\r\n\r\nJon"
  created: '2005-11-01 04:01:42'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "I'll be interested to see some other answers to this question as I get asked
    it now and then by students and I'm always stumped. What goes with Futura? Ummm
    ... nothing?\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2005-11-01 04:08:31'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Bodoni is a bad choice for text</em>\r\n\r\nAs if there was only one
    Bodoni! We\u2019ve been setting a magazine in Filosofia, Zuzana Licko\u2019s Bodoni,
    very successfully for a dozen or so issues. And I am the first one to complain
    about type being too small, too contrasty and too tightly tracked. ITC\u2019s
    Bodoni is ok as long as you use the smaller sizes, and if it wasn\u2019t for other
    reasons, I\u2019d use GG Lange\u2019s Bodoni Old Face which is warmer and less
    contrasty than Monotype\u2019s and most other Bodonis. Futura actually goes well
    with most other serif faces, as long as the x-height doesn\u2019t approach ITC
    levels from the 70s. Futura  \u2013 if tracked enough \u2013 makes for even, well-balanced
    and quiet lines, so the text to go with it simply needs to avoid looking too constructed
    and mechanical. In other words: no ITC Garamond, no Didot, no Bauer Bodoni. Then
    again, one wouldn\u2019t use any of these for text anyway."
  created: '2005-11-01 05:22:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'You can also use Bodoni and Futura the other way round: it''s an interesting
    effect to match the weight of Futura text to the weight of the serifs in Bodoni:
    Bauer Bodoni for larger heads, Lange''s Bodoni (Berthold) for medium size, say
    the headings in a sidebar.'
  created: '2005-11-01 05:30:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I've been publishing -in fact selling- fonts since 1982. Only bitmap
    ones at first (although in Armenian and Arabic, the latter being pretty hard to
    pull off on an 8x8 grid), but both bitmap and outline fonts since 1987. You can't
    spend 10 minutes in any heavily-Armenian-populated area (including Toronto) without
    running into one of my fonts. Yes, my reach is not very broad (yet) but in my
    niche I'm everywhere. I have won a couple of awards (and I can smell another coming
    very soon), have been asked to speak at 7 or 8 international type conferences
    (some of them paid), have given talks in colleges, have 3 open invitations to
    speak around the world (about anything I find suitable), and have had articles
    published in various magazines. I will be teaching a type design course at the
    Art Center starting January. I've done font work for Disney, UCLA, Liverpool University,
    Agfa, the Israel Postal Authority, Ikea, and many smaller outfits. And I manage
    to sell <cite>betas</cite> of my fonts for up to $250. As for readability research,
    although I haven't run my own lab tests or anything, I've been amalgamating the
    results and thoughts of dozens and dozens of researchers and pundits for 7 years,
    to the point that people pay me (one time over $1500) to talk about it.\r\n\r\nSo
    it simply doesn't add up that I'm a clueless idiot that everybody should ignore
    about everything - face it. Just because we disagree doesn't mean one of us is
    an idiot. And then realize why you keep insisting I'm a clueless idiot: your ego
    is hurt, and you're at a loss as to how to control me (the uncontrollability of
    an inexpensive, global discussion forum being something quite unnerving to people
    who are used to controlling the \"internal artistic consistency\" of their work
    for years, insularly) so you lash out and thump your chest. Well, you can't control
    me. And any \"strategy\" to subdue me can never work, come on. It makes you feel
    better? That's sick - even I give you more credit than that. If this debacle is
    any single person's fault, and if it's any single person's loss, to me it's clearly
    yours. Not because I'm a perfect person (not even close) but simply because the
    onus is on you to get a hold of yourself, to <cite>tolerate</cite> - just like
    I tolerate you. I have not once complained about your manners or attacks - only
    your content.\r\n\r\nAnyway, coming back to your alpha-male obsession with accomplishments:
    I think all of that (including my stuff above) is secondary; your own propensity
    to sell pretty display fonts is secondary. What really matters to me (and many
    other people) is a humble respect for the craft and its progress; not with expressing
    myself and milking anything and everything for my own material or egocentric benefit.
    To me type is in large part about readability, and Nick, you don't know jack about
    readability. How could you, being a believer in the Emigre mantra? You can only
    make text fonts by a combination of mimickry and dumb luck (and you're not alone).
    Which isn't so bad - I know and admire numerous people who make good display fonts,
    even better than you. The difference is they admit that they're making display
    fonts. And most of them realize they're not god's gift to type. You don't manage
    to do either. You think you're hot stuff. Puhleeze. You're just middle of the
    pack, and moreover you're stuck in a rut because you think you've arrived; at
    least I know -as I said in my Daidala interview*- that I haven't really done anything
    notable yet, which means I have a world of growth left.\r\n\r\n* http://www.daidala.com/25apr2004.html\r\n\r\nAs
    the Eunoia-Text thread proved, no amount of gentle coaxing -even by people who
    often agree with you and see nothing at all wrong with the space between your
    ears- that you shouldn't call your daughter George seems to work. And my attempts
    to slap you awake haven't worked either. No amount of anything is making you see
    the huge gaping hole in your type knowledge. Just because you fool some people
    into thinking you know what you're doing in the realm of text is only helpful
    to your pocketbook and ego; not really to other people. And to me, Design is about
    other people.\r\n\r\nCulture isn't about making and selling fashion items.\r\nAnd
    what's not about you, Nick, is Craft.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 06:04:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> As if there was only one Bodoni!\r\n\r\nThat's a very good point. And Tiffany
    (with her \"You do need to find a version, such as ITC 12, that has had the contrast
    minimized\") alluded to that too. What I wonder about though is the \"essence\"
    of Bodoni, and if optically corrected version with reduced stroke contrast are
    still Bodoni... And who decides? I wonder about a test like this: put three settings
    at let's say 10 point: Times, ITC Bodoni-6, and ITC Bodoni-72. Ask people which
    one, and also which two, is/are Bodoni. What answers would you get, from what
    type of people? My hunch is that the more you ask people who matter (people proportionally
    distant from type designers) the more the Bodoni-6 looks closer to Times than
    to \"Bodoni\"...\r\n\r\nSo I think that scale actually throws off our attempts
    to apply a consistent style, at least to some extent. The more readable you want
    to make the smaller sizes of a \"stylish\" design, the more you're going to have
    to act pragmatically, to the point of dumping a big chunk of the style. There
    is a threshold between Display and Text, and since the former is where conscious
    deliberation of style and formation of perceptions of style happens, while in
    the latter the participation of style undergoes neutering, it's pretty unclear
    to me what something like \"Bodoni\" actually means in text sizes.\r\n\r\n> one
    wouldn\u2019t use any of these for text anyway.\r\n\r\nNick, what say you?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 06:14:57'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: FWIW, Bodoni Old Fashion URW looks pretty good and _very_ close to Berthold's
    Bodoni Old Face.
  created: '2005-11-01 12:17:20'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I don't know that I'm adding anything new, but I was recently reading some
    text set in a Bodoni with very thin serifs (I'm sure several here could ID it
    by foundry on sight but not I). I was reminded of the very technical term \u201Csparkle\u201D
    used in another thread by Tiffany. The contrast diverted my attention away from
    the letter shapes and the text was scintillating, and I don't mean refreshing.\r\n\r\nFor
    Futura, I would look at versions of Walbaum or maybe Walburn and see if you could
    come to a good solution.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 15:31:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Nick, you don\u2019t know jack about readability\r\n\r\nHrant, here you
    go again, up to your old tricks.\r\nThe ad hominem argument -- not just stating
    your own case, but making your point by personally discrediting anyone who disagrees.
    I won't tolerate that. You're entitled to your opinions, but not to bolster them
    by dissing other people. For two years I've been discussing things on Typophile
    fair and square, and keeping a \"stiff upper lip\" in the face of your personal
    slights, but no more.\r\n\r\nI don't have to defend my personality or work against
    your fantastic portrayals of them, suffice it to say that I worked full-time as
    an art director for 20 years and now make my living from type design. One of my
    text types is read by millions of people \"Worldwide\" in their daily newspapers.
    So the facts would indicate that I know something about readability, without being
    egotistical. \r\n\r\nYou're an Internet blowhard. You have no formal education
    or professional job experience related to typography or design. You have a little
    hobby business making Armenian fonts. Oh, and you've read some stuff about readability.
    God help your Art Center students.\r\n\r\nI don't take this \"alpha-male\" approach
    with anyone else, but as you've repeatedly challenged my masculinity with your
    homophobic \"artiste\" jibes about pretty display fonts, what the fuck do you
    expect?\r\n\r\n>Nick, what say you?\r\n\r\nWith regards to Bodoni, you're talking
    your usual theoretical mumbo-jumbo.\r\nHere you are in a thread with working typographers
    who own licences to various versions of Bodoni and have used them for text matter
    in paying jobs, thereby seeing how the spec they made on screen works in print,
    and you're saying \"it\u2019s pretty unclear to me what something like \u201CBodoni\u201D
    actually means...\" Amen.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 16:05:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> One of my text types is read by millions of\r\n> people \u201CWorldwide\u201D
    in their daily newspapers.\r\n\r\nLike I said, this counts for little.\r\nEven
    to you: please remind us what you think about certain Adobe and MS fonts...\r\n\r\n>
    You have a little hobby business making Armenian fonts.\r\n\r\nRight. All those
    clients I mention just can't get enough of Armenian fonts.\r\nYour ego is causing
    your blinders to become increasingly larger.\r\n\r\n> God help your Art Center
    students.\r\n\r\nWhile he seems to have failed your poor unicase martyrs...\r\n\r\n>
    With regards to Bodoni, you\u2019re talking ...\r\n\r\nI was referring to things
    Tiffany and Erik said that I <cite>know</cite> you disagree with.\r\nYou're dodging.
    And you know it.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nYour ignorance of the effect of scale on the
    adaptation of a style falls within the gaping hole in your understanding that
    I mentioned. And it's no surprise, considering your ill-named daughter.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 18:01:51'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "*wearing moderator hat*\r\n\r\npleas refrain from making personal attacks
    and insults. if you want to discuss issues, discuss issues. but enough barbs and
    name-calling. thank you."
  created: '2005-11-01 18:05:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I won\u2019t tolerate that.\r\n\r\nHow?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 18:12:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Shut up Hrant, didn't you hear what the man said?
  created: '2005-11-01 19:00:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'So do I have to say *wearing moderator hat* to get your attention? Boy, I
    really should find a new forum. '
  created: '2005-11-01 19:05:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "How was that an attack or an insult?\r\nWhat's going on in the background?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 19:20:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Boy, I really should find a new forum.\r\n\r\nSorry Tiffany. I've done that,
    and spent some time away from Typophile, but I missed it, and figured, why should
    I let Hrant drive me away?"
  created: '2005-11-01 19:34:00'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Ah no. :^D That isn't what I meant. I just don't want to have to *wear my
    moderator hat* to get the mass to have some class. :^D
  created: '2005-11-01 19:54:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why should I let Hrant drive me away?\r\n\r\nWhich is <cite>exactly</cite>
    what I've been telling you for ages.\r\nAnd it's really not just you and I: other
    people have\r\nbeen telling other people the same thing. It's just\r\nhard to
    actually do it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-01 20:39:01'
- author:
    name: mica
    picture: 110163
  body: 'Will - what is your small mag''s content? Is it long (number of pages) and
    lots of full text-pages, or do you have photos interspersed? If there''s lots
    of text, I like to read <a href="http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Whitman">Whitman</a>,
    but I can imagine it looking silly with a thin Futura. '
  created: '2005-11-01 21:43:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Will can you post a current page (jpg please) and lets see how the space works
    on a page. It might help in giving direction.
  created: '2005-11-01 22:47:19'
- author:
    name: shawkash
    picture: 110759
  body: I think typophile is one of best design forums, which is not only a forum
    .. it really have rich resources more than any place here, because honstly people
    here are profissional and they have very solid background about what they are
    speaking. So I have to be honest with all of you that I expect some kind of deplomatic,
    understanding and FORGIVNESS. Because we are all here to help this community happen
    and make people love typography. Just want to shoot a small advice for Will Miller,
    why don't you make one page of your magazine, then try every suggested font in
    this forum. And I have to ask you what about using platinio as text in such small
    pages?
  created: '2005-11-02 19:52:32'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: 'I can''t decide of this was the greatest Nick/Hrant battle or all time. Like
    a 3rd movie sequel. It has the right elements but is too self referential and
    loses the immediacy of the older films. I think this is the best one here: http://typophile.com/node/15929'
  created: '2010-07-09 11:21:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Ray, are you stirring the pot, or smoking it?
  created: '2010-07-09 19:08:37'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "Ray, you know, personally there was a very educating thread with an exchange
    between Nick and Hrant on a mostly (most of the time) factual level about the
    modernist fonts Bodoni and printing in the 19th century. \r\n\r\nIt was interesting,
    with different arguments on what people where used to see, what was modern back
    then, about what book printers said, wrote and used, about which element influences
    the readability of modern faces, if it were the contrast or the shape of the letters,
    and how then a similar shape is with less contrast. It was very interesting and
    I think three pages long. \r\n\r\nThat thread is much more worthy to look at and
    to continue the discussion, than this one were bad blood was spilled everywhere...\r\n\r\n[[http://typophile.com/node/65216?page=1]]"
  created: '2010-07-10 03:43:12'
- author:
    name: Ray Larabie
    picture: 129961
  body: "@flooce that doesn't sound exciting but thank you.\r\n\r\nI missed this action
    the first time around because I visited so infrequently.\r\nI googled site:typophile.com
    hrant shinn\r\n\r\nIt must have been hard to deal with at the time but as a spectator,
    reading them all in one sitting it's entertaining stuff and of some historical
    significance, I think. I don't mean to tease. There were two Nick/Hrant battlethreads
    that were so epic that I just could help but applaud the spectacle of it all.
    If Typophile is boxing then this thread is the ear-getting-bitten-off one."
  created: '2010-07-10 03:58:11'
date: '2005-10-31 15:39:54'
title: Body Text w. Futura

---
