---
author:
  name: jason
  picture: 109852
body: "This is pure indulgence, but over the past few days I've come across a couple
  of aphorisms that have both, for whatever reason, struck home. They couldn't be
  more different, and this got me thinking. Would it be possible to set both in the
  same face and still serve the spirit of each? So, a challenge of sorts. I'm curious
  to see what those with too much time on their hands might come up with to set the
  following:\r\n\r\n1\r\nY'know what your problem is?\r\nYou're stupid.\r\n\r\n2\r\nHow
  long will we continue to draw in our colouring books\r\nan image of god that makes
  us sad."
comments:
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>set both in the same face</em>\r\n\r\nJason, do you mean simply set
    both in the same typeface,\r\nor use the same face but with some creative typography?"
  created: '2005-11-09 13:45:19'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "If you are going to use the same tone of the voice for both of them\r\nI
    suppose the anwer is yes.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAS"
  created: '2005-11-09 14:26:52'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: Is those two aphorisms are only a typeface question?
  created: '2005-11-09 15:28:50'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "My idea was that each aphorism seems to require a very different approach
    (different type, different typography), and this made me curious about if it would
    be possible to serve both/each using the same type and the same typographic treatment.
    The obvious rookie approach would likely be to reach to Comic Sans for the first
    and some tacky script for the second, but attempting to use either of those styles
    for both aphorisms would clearly fail miserably. I suppose I was curious to see
    if anyone would take up the challenge, and if so what they might come up with.\r\n\r\nNorbert,
    your second line is of course relative. How much is \"some creative typography\"?
    A little is often a lot. As I mentioned, this is a very indulgent post, so I don't
    want to limit anything. (We already tend to impose all kinds of restraint on ourselves
    anyway.)\r\n\r\nThe <a href=\"http://www.greenboathouse.com/\">small press</a>
    I run had, for a while, a project on our website that we called \"<a href=\"http://www.greenboathouse.com/variant/index.htm\">Variant</a>.\"
    The idea was that we would find a quotation and post it on our website, then invite
    poets to write something exploring that quotation. From the submissions we would
    pick 5 that approached the passage in an interesting way and post those to the
    site, with a single submission being produced as a broadsheet which we distributed
    to all of those who submitted, as well as sending copies to our subscription list.
    What made this interesting was seeing how a wide variety of folks would interpret/interpolate
    the same quotation into very different poems. I suppose I was thinking along the
    same lines here in that I was curious to see how a range of typographers would
    approach two very different statements with the challenge being to use only one
    typeface to set both."
  created: '2005-11-09 19:26:19'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "This reminds me of Experimental Jetset's theory of Helvetica. \r\n\r\nIf
    I had the time I'd give it a shot. "
  created: '2005-11-09 20:00:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is mine:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fetteFrac.gif]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-09 20:26:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hey, clever.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-09 20:28:00'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "There are several solutions that I can immediately think of because namely,
    if you take the \"design\" of a face out of the equation, the reader's mind will
    fill in the inflection.\r\n\r\nCheap trick and not necessarily creative by any
    means, but it works.\r\n\r\nIn the illustration below, by emulating a handwritten
    note, the reader directly connects to an individual writer's notes or correspondence
    and adds an inflection to the text.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dmato-text.gif]\r\nLassigue
    Dmato Designed by: Jim Marcus of T-26 \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-09 20:58:53'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: Odd... a blackletter typeface was my first instinct as well. I wonder why
    that is?
  created: '2005-11-09 21:51:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Because blackletter is both cholo and religious/literary.\r\n\r\nBut this
    is really lucky. Generally, I don't\r\nsee how Jason's exercise could really work.\r\nWhich
    however does teach us about type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-09 22:07:56'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/txt.jpg]\r\nThis is a font I made this
    week in couple hours. I am an absolute novice at type design. Hence the circles
    and squares. "
  created: '2005-11-09 22:31:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My first thought was Fractur as a Nazi \"you are stupid\" and as a blackletter
    typical bible text.  I liked the confrontation of Christ and antichrist.  After
    seeing the text on the page, I thought it better suited to the problem as stated
    to use a bible/manuscript style for both but as a cartoon dialogue between opposite
    sides. Hence my solution.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-09 22:44:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I liked the confrontation of Christ and antichrist.\r\n\r\nOn the other
    hand, cholos are often strong catholics.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-09 23:00:27'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I have to admit that once again I agree with Hrant; that is, I don't see
    how this can really work, which is why I threw it out to see if anyone could prove
    me wrong. \r\n\r\nNorbert's take on this issue seems quite sound, both in theory
    and in his example. I'm not a fan of Lassigue Dmato, but it addresses the issues
    at play in this problem. I'd be curious to see it in Dear Sarah. That said, the
    more I look at Norbert's graphic the more each seems to work.\r\n\r\nI'd been
    imagining these aphorisms both as t-shirts, and as broadsheets, further complicating
    things insofar as the first doesn't \"deserve\" a broadsheet, nor does the latter
    \"deserve\" to be on a t-shirt. My thought was that only a relatively neutral
    type would allow all of these things at once: 2 very different messages produced
    on 2 very different mediums. That relatively neutral type, however, still needs
    a bit of personality to give each statement tone and character. Norbert's does
    just that.\r\n\r\nHopefully a few others will take up the call as well."
  created: '2005-11-09 23:53:44'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "The reason I feel the sample below works is for the very same reason that
    the \"design\" of the face actually becomes a visual trigger to the reader, again
    filling in the inflection of the \"anonymous individual\" who typed the text.
    \r\n\r\nI think the trick again is to make the reader imagine the voice of the
    writer. Handwritten and typewritten text (not word processing) puts the reader
    closer in contact with the writer's voice.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/text-challenge2.gif]\r\nP22
    Typewriter designed by Richard Kegler\r\nDesign owned by: IHOF\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-10 01:49:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I was interested in the idea of combining the two texts into a single text,
    yet still distinguishing them. Editorially, it struck me, as it seems to have
    struck Chris, that the two texts can be posed as a dialogue.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stupid.gif]"
  created: '2005-11-10 04:28:52'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Norbert, once again your logic is very sound, and, again, it seems to work
    in practice. I'm glad, now, that I threw this out there as you've raised some
    important points about connecting the reader with an annonymous voice.\r\n\r\nJohn,
    I'd steered clear of bringing the two into conversation, but you're right about
    there being a dialogue going on here (perhaps that's why these two stuck with
    me last week). The voice(s) of a contemporary mind cynically seeking \"wisdom\"?
    Maybe. My goodness, am I exposing myself through this thread?\r\n\r\nBack to business:
    the interlacing of the two is a nice idea, and the tight leading adds a sense
    of tension, but the giant \"STUPID\" in the background feels a bit domineering
    and messy, despite it being camouflaged. I think the exchange between the two
    statements already makes the point presented in your design. And then there's
    the absent period at the end, and a whole lotta drop-shadowin' goin' on. But there's
    definitely something interesting going on there.\r\n\r\nMuch gratitude to those
    who have given this a shot so far."
  created: '2005-11-10 07:39:18'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Personal question\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/What.gif]"
  created: '2005-11-10 14:07:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That's a good concept Andr\xE9. I wish everything in red was a cleaner sentence
    verbally though.  Maybe if the text in red just said: \"Your problem is...colouring
    an image of god...\" and the rest was black?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-10 14:20:29'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "I thouht about this sentence too, but I'd want to have a red colour on each
    line.\r\nHere your suggestion Chris.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/What_no2b.gif]"
  created: '2005-11-10 14:46:33'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "One reason why Chris' example works well is that he placed the text within
    the context of conversation by using cartoon balloons.\r\n\r\nThe next level of
    visual triggers that would improve the inflection tone of the text would be to
    give a face to the speaker:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sistine.jpg]\r\n-\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/man-dog.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    know that these don't comply with your ground rules for the excercise, Jason,
    but I started to push the question concerning text, typography, image and how
    they can effect tone and inflection. Plus it was FUN =-)"
  created: '2005-11-10 16:22:34'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: Norbert -- your Sistine Chapel version is hilarious!
  created: '2005-11-10 16:29:54'
- author:
    name: jay
    picture: 110472
  body: Norbert, those are really hilarious!
  created: '2005-11-10 16:34:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/excersize2.jpg]'
  created: '2005-11-10 16:54:12'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: Isn't there a question mark missing from "How long...."?
  created: '2005-11-10 17:22:17'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "^Yes.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Type.gif]"
  created: '2005-11-10 18:22:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "James!\r\nThat is f*****' brilliant!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-10 18:40:51'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Yes... way, way, WAY COOL treatment, James.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    once I was a type <em>god</em>, but now I'm plain <em>stupid</em> & happy!"
  created: '2005-11-10 19:21:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>the interlacing of the two is a nice idea, and the tight leading adds
    a sense of tension, but the giant \u201CSTUPID\u201D in the background feels a
    bit domineering and messy</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I agree. I wanted something in the
    background to add to the polyphony of voices, but the STUPID doesn't work as I
    had hoped. I'd set myself a time limit of ten minutes, though."
  created: '2005-11-10 19:28:04'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "It was to easy...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/What_no3.gif]"
  created: '2005-11-10 19:29:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nThere is still good dialogue going on between the 2 voices. The
    big word \"stupid\" interupts it in a way that is confusing. Perhaps the more
    straightforward approach would be enough?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-10 19:33:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I see the synergy working here as we learn from eachother.  That is way better
    now Andr\xE9!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-10 19:35:32'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I was getting a bit worried there for a minute as Norbert & Chris started
    throwing chimps around, but some great developments here as the concept is further
    explored.\r\n\r\nThe angle taken by James & pushed further by Andr\xE9 is coming
    back around to the conflict that drew my attention to these two statements in
    the first place, a sort of internal battle between the two. However, the proximity
    of the two aphorisms in Andr\xE9's has removed the \"primary\" dialogue (that
    is, two separate statements) and instead focused on the \"supplementary\" commentary
    (in white). That supplement is very powerful in the last incarnation, but a bit
    of lead between the two would retain the first level of distinction."
  created: '2005-11-10 19:49:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sorry to knock youoff track Jason; some straight lines are hard to resist.
    I'll stop the monkey-shines :-)\r\n\r\nBack on task:\r\nBelow is a McLuhanized
    version where the medium takes over the message:\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Type-TelgrmComp2.png]"
  created: '2005-11-10 20:47:04'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: Chris... please [STOP] and I'll stop monkeying around as well ;)
  created: '2005-11-10 21:08:46'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stupidsad.gif]\r\nI know the commission
    for this project said that the phrases couldn't be more different, but to me they
    both seemed like something you'd see written on a 16-year-old girl's school folder. "
  created: '2005-11-10 23:04:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This thread is getting way cooler than I would've ever expected.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-10 23:16:43'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I'd like to see some smileys over the \u201Ci\u201D instead of the fat dot.\r\n\r\nAnd
    a VanHalen logo."
  created: '2005-11-11 00:33:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"\u2019I'd like to see some smileys over the \u201Ci\u201D instead of the
    fat dot.\"\r\n\r\nYou should also add the word \"like\" liberally before every
    adjective and adverb too if you want that bopper feel:\r\n\r\n\"Dude, do you like
    know what your like pahroblem like is? Dude! You are like oh so stupid I could
    like hurl!\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 00:37:36'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Oh jeez. It's, like, all gone to hell. \r\nThat \"sad\" image is rapidly
    becoming self-reflexively ironic."
  created: '2005-11-11 00:53:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"That \u201Csad\u201D image is rapidly becoming self-reflexively ironic.\"\r\n\r\nSplen
    it tu mi Lutci?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 02:03:15'
- author:
    name: Stephan Kurz
    picture: 110847
  body: Greyscale colouring of god (or whatever):[img:sites/default/files/old-images/imageofgod.png]
  created: '2005-11-11 02:13:07'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Oh jeez. It\u2019s, like, all gone to hell.</em>\r\n\r\nDon't get discouraged,
    Jason. You must admit that many rose to a challenge you yourself thought difficult.
    You must take the wheat with the chafe, throw it up in the air and let the wind
    separate what's good from what's not.\r\n\r\nAnyway, what other bunch of whacked
    eccentrics have you had more fun with and learned (and taught, thank you for your
    astute evaluations).\r\n\r\nLet the games resume! Creativity needs a little elbow
    room.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-11 03:39:45'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Absolutely Norbert, not discouraged at all; this has been entertaining and
    edifying, and humbling as well. There was something serious, or, let's say sincere
    in my attraction to both of the aphorisms, and in the play between the two which
    began to reveal itself through this process. Earnest and/or playful, which has
    been reflected back in the various approaches.\r\n\r\nAnd then suddenly I felt
    rather foolish as this exercise revealed a 16-year-old-school-girl. Ack! Wha?
    Really? Well, yeah, I suppose so. At first eliason's take set me off, but that's
    just ego. It was an effective rendering, which was, after all, the challenge.
    That personality had been there all along in the content, of course, and eliason
    just tapped into it. The grasping of the latter statement next to the arrogance/ignorance
    of the former. Pure 16-year-old.\r\n\r\nNot to get all dramatic & squishy here,
    but this thread has been like a community coming together to explore an individual
    koan. Well, no, it <em>has</em> been a community coming together to explore an
    individual koan. It's great. Intriguing and suprising and faultering and humbling.
    And through typography? Go figure. Great stuff.\r\n\r\nps. Ah, look, at least
    in my browser the above copy not only ends two lines with \"community\" but begins
    two lines with \"coming together to explore an individual koan.\" A typesetter's
    nightmare!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: eliason
      picture: 109936
    body: "Jason\r\n\r\nThough the mood of this thread has had some silliness, I did
      intend my 16-yr-old attempt as a serious response to the challenge. And I offer
      my apologies to anyone who took it as dismissive or mocking - I should have
      been more careful with my tone. \r\n\r\nI think there's something very touching
      about that 16-year-old mentality  that I tried to describe in type. You put
      it well - a mixture of arrogance and grasping - that is part of growing up (but
      to some extent none of us ever grow out of). \r\n\r\nCraig."
    created: '2005-11-11 16:23:41'
  created: '2005-11-11 07:07:45'
- author:
    name: alec
  body: "Hi everyone,\r\nI'm new around here and I thought this post was very interesting
    and fun.  Anyway I wanted get my hands dirty and join in.\r\n\r\nBoth line are
    strong. I love some of the examples above, so i thought I'd have a go.\r\n\r\nAlec[img:sites/default/files/old-images/line.JPG]"
  created: '2005-11-11 10:03:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Alec,\r\n\r\nYour approach looks as if it were an official inscription.  It
    makes the statement appear to come from a Society (with reverence) as opposed
    to individuals.  This is the first example to push it in that direction.  Well
    done too!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 12:33:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John Hudson and Alec's post made me think of the following insriptional idea:\r\n(I
    used my own work-in-progress font \"Now\"  \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16147#comment-94901\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/shadow
    sad SM.jpg]"
  created: '2005-11-11 13:58:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "This is a bit large, and I'm not sure how to display in line, so:\r\nwww.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/stupid.gif[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-11 15:00:35'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "whoops, forgot the:\r\nin our colouring books\r\n\r\nwill rework when I have
    more time"
  created: '2005-11-11 15:10:05'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Against my better judgement. Note: I've posted this offsite because it is
    not pretty. I won\u2019t offer any big explanation either. Let it be.\r\n\r\nhttp://i6.photobucket.com/albums/y234/jupiterboy/PB160014.jpg"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jlusby
      picture: 111084
    body: "Jupiterboy-\r\nI think you could do us all a favor and offer a big explanation.
      Please.\r\n"
    created: '2005-11-11 16:33:39'
  created: '2005-11-11 16:22:27'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "<strong>Quoting James:</strong>\r\n<cite>I\u2019ve posted this offsite because
    it is not pretty.</cite>\r\n\r\nEven with a warning, that was <strong>not</strong>
    what I expected to see while having my morning coffee! Ick.\r\n\r\nWhy the wrap-around?
    Though \"is? oks\" on the left side is kind of intriguing and a nice place to
    escape from the horror of the image itself..."
  created: '2005-11-11 16:33:14'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "this post is very interesting. it's so cool to see the different things that
    people come up with.\r\n...not exactly sure how to post an image on here so here's
    a link.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.istitch.net/projects/exp.jpg\r\n\r\n\r\n------\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-11-11 16:40:34'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I could be completely misunderstanding this experiment, Jason, so I apologize
    right now.\r\n\r\nThese two phrases reminded me of two people that might care
    for one another but simply cannot talk about religion with having some sort of
    communication break down. And so, they always end up talking on top of each other
    and not really listening to one another.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/exp_0511.gif]"
  created: '2005-11-11 16:45:03'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "btw,\r\n\r\nJupiterboy-\r\nsorry, but that was seriously disgusting. i almost
    lost my breakfast. wtf...\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-11 16:50:05'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "btw,\r\n\r\nJupiterboy-\r\nsorry, but that was seriously disgusting. i almost
    lost my breakfast. wtf...\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-11 16:50:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nVery nice!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 16:50:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Though the mood of this thread has had some silliness, I did intend my
    16-yr-old attempt as a serious response to the challenge\"\r\n\r\nI meant my \"chimp\"
    image seriously as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 16:53:09'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Well, rather than respecting the project, I followed my heart on this one.
    It is political, blunt and ugly.\r\n\r\nThis image was posted on another board
    that I frequent. This is a young soldier\u2014screen name: pureflipking. \u201DFlip\u201D
    is slang for Philipino. He was posting pics of himself, with guns, in Hummers,
    with helicopters, and with his purple heart. Someone asked about his purple heart,
    and he posted links to several pics of his injuries. I almost can\u2019t relate
    all the feelings I have about these images. Basically, I've created a persona
    on this page and get to participate in the banter, which I would not normally
    hear. These young soldiers keep their spirits up talking about girls and cars
    and such. They are like the 16-year old we have under the microscope, but different
    in a way.\r\n\r\nWe don\u2019t see the gore much. This ugly stuff. Anyway, I isolated
    the text I wanted to with color. The wrap was to destroy the other text and the
    general idea in favor of my own simple 16-year old\u2019s question, which has
    a double meaning.\r\n\r\nHow long will we continue to finance this? How long will
    we as a species keep going?\r\n\r\nIt is a deeper personal expression, moving
    beyond my word-nerd fascination with this fun project, and looking at what is
    really on my mind.\r\n\r\nIf I overstepped the bounds, I do apologize.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-11 16:57:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...It is political, blunt and ugly.\"\r\n\r\nThat is a perfect definition
    of War!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 17:23:59'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "Jupiterboy-\r\n\r\ni respect your right to post whatever you want. sometimes,
    it's neccesary to step over a boundry in order to define it.\r\n\r\njust remember
    that when you aim to shock and offend, you might end up doing just that.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-------\r\nnc\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-11 17:34:28'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "^\r\nYes, and now that we are protected from seeing what we are up to, well,
    I mean, this kid shot that pic himself with his own digital camera.\r\n\r\nThe
    next kid in the thread followed up with \u201CDude, I saw some pubes\u201D. This
    is sublime to me. I cry a bit and wonder if I\u2019m really cut out for it all.\r\n\r\nI
    don\u2019t feel it\u2019s my job to make people look. I\u2019m testing my boundaries
    in this group. Words are spells and images have real power. It is good to realize
    what power we do have. It is good to be able work it out collectively. Makes us
    more effective maybe."
  created: '2005-11-11 17:39:12'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I've updated my contribution:\r\nwww.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/stupid_2.gif\r\n\r\nFrom
    the hilarious to the innocent to the jaded to the raw: I think their all worthwhile.
    Great exercise Jason\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-11 17:39:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Peter,\r\nVery Good! I comes off as a coupon taken from a newspaper advertisement--both
    selling and telling.  Very nice opposition typographically and symantically.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 18:27:49'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Phew. You folks have been busy.\r\n\r\nCraig, no offense taken at all. As
    I said, it was just ego that was a bit wounded, not because you're approach was
    in any way inappropriate, but, on the contrary, because it was appropriate. You
    found something that was in the content and explored it, which was the challenge.\r\n\r\nThe
    same goes for James' post. Like others, I was initially shocked and repulsed by
    his brutal interpretation (in fact, at first I couldn't see \"interpretation\"
    at all, I just saw ugly, then fear, then the message coming through my own response),
    especially first thing after my morning tea. The history of the image is, I think,
    important, right down to the detail that the soldier was first displaying bravado
    and only then revealed the ugly side of his experience. The follow-up thread fixating
    on pubes, and your own response to that (\"This is sublime to me\", indeed). This
    thread continues to reveal new dimensions in two relatively simple bits of text.\r\n\r\nTiff,
    great. Great. No misunderstanding at all. As in my last post, this has become
    a community experiment and no longer has much to do with me, aside from the opportunity
    for me to share in this process. I love that the arrogance of the red voice wipes
    out the most important part of the blue, stubornly refusing to let go of the denial.
    As though saying \"I'll allow the topic of god to come up, but I will not listen
    to what you have to say about it.\"\r\n\r\nAnd what's so humbling is that this
    thread refuses to give in to that attitude.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-11 18:37:15'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Here's my version...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sad-god.gif]"
  created: '2005-11-11 19:57:59'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Lauri, the 6 x 6 word square is GREAT!\r\nIt changes the whole emphasis of
    the sentence.\r\nI've been intrigued to see what \"crosstics\" I could find:\r\nROB,
    TRI'P, maybe more, I don't even care about being \"STUPID\""
  created: '2005-11-11 20:12:31'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Norbert,\r\n\r\nThanks.  I wanted to contrast the two aphorisisms.\r\n\r\nFirst
    one is all caps, screaming, clunky, squarish, somewhat unintelligible, and rude.
    \ While the second aphorism is lowercase, flowing, poetic, and more pleasing to
    the eyes.\r\n\r\nI haven't found any good crosstics yet... but there's bound to
    be some.  :-)"
  created: '2005-11-11 20:30:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lauri,\r\nI see the contrast as \"Digital alarm clock\" {top) and \"on-screen
    word processing\" (bottom).\r\n\r\nThe first is an annoyance like my morning alarm
    which jerks me from the haven of sleep.  The second is perhaps an email message
    to a friend.  It is also a man/machine dichotomy.\r\n\r\nQuite well done!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 20:38:13'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nI wouldn't mind having a wrist watch that beeped every time
    I did something stupid and flashed \"You're Stupid\" on the screen... that would
    make me a whole lot smarter.  :-)"
  created: '2005-11-11 20:51:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I wouldn\u2019t mind having a wrist watch that beeped every time I did
    something stupid...\"\r\n\r\nMy wife is kind enough to fill that role for me but
    she does it in a kindly manner :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 20:54:53'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nFunny!  Almost as good as having a back-seat driver!  :-)"
  created: '2005-11-11 20:58:42'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "...a comment on current iPod fascination and trend sweeping the nation and
    maybe the world?\r\n\r\nhttp://users.adelphia.net/~dabailey/challenge.gif\r\n\r\nHaven't
    been around in a while so I can't seem to get the picture to embed. Oh well."
  created: '2005-11-11 21:07:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"\u2026a comment on current iPod fascination\"\r\n\r\nI kept reaching for
    the \"Click Wheel\" :-)\r\n\r\nVery Cool David!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-11 21:45:06'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Thanks! I don't know if i should post how I think it should be interpretted.
    There's a definite structure to it and reasons for the way it is.
  created: '2005-11-11 23:04:36'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I suppose I should actually participate in this thing. Clearly the idea in
    this attempt was a cacophany of thoughts/voices overwhelming each other, making
    something simple into something suffocating, despite the fact that only two statements
    are being spoken again and again. \r\n\r\nWith something in the background, the
    image could be of anything, really, just as the examples throughout this thread
    have shown that each treatment simply draws out different levels of the aphorisms
    and their interaction. \r\n\r\nThe type, in this case, needs to reveal little
    of the speaker(s), as in this case they are disembodied voices cluttering up one's
    head, both in the representation, and in the viewer's mind as the eye struggles
    to sort out the busy mess on the canvas. There is also a bit of a \"race\" as
    the different leading forces/allows the text to move forward/backward towards
    the bottom of the canvas.\r\n\r\nUsing the image I have here is heavy-handed and
    melodramatic, but, in conversation, so are the statements themselves. I was also
    shooting for a certain uncertainty. As an image of god clearly linked to suffering,
    this icon seemed to speak to that impulse to focus on pain, yet also drawing attention
    to the fact that indulging in that impulse is a choice (that is, chosing to draw
    an image that makes us sad). The same could be said if this image were replaced
    with any other icon, religeous or otherwise.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aphorisms_thumbs.jpg]"
  created: '2005-11-11 23:21:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I don\u2019t know if i should post how I think it should be interpretted.
    There\u2019s a definite structure to it and reasons for the way it is.\"\r\n\r\nYou
    should.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-12 00:02:43'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Ok well, to start off. I used Myriad the typeface used in conjunction with
    our ever familiar iPod ads/packaging etc. \r\n\r\nThe emphasis of this piece is
    on the second line, due to contrast/color, which is in fact the second part of
    both blocks of text. You read it first by nature: \"You're stupid. God that makes
    us sad.\" as if you're disappointing someone by succumbing to the masses, but
    you're really not sure what you've done wrong so you read on!\r\n\r\nThe secondary
    line (top) is treated as such...secondary element but just as important, reading:
    \"Y'know what your problem is?  How long will we continue to draw in our coloring
    books an image of...\" and then it trails off. This is as if this higher voice
    was commenting on your confusion by what the primary element told you, there is
    something wrong with you! (the audience) The white space intentionally left above
    the type is where you would expect something to be and in this case the iPod.
    The end of the secondary sentence further draws attention to the fact of our consumerist
    society and our need to own the latest and greatest objects, as such 'an image
    of...' could be an image of anything...not just the iPod. \r\n\r\nI think that's
    it...does this make sense? Thoughts?"
  created: '2005-11-12 00:38:12'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Jason, the top example is truly sublime (and subliminal).\r\nThe layering
    and implied depth does draw the reader into that \"voiceless\" dialogue in the
    mind, repeating, fading, returning.\r\nThe values of gray are well used and add
    an ethereal quality to the piece. Running both sentences to the width and height
    of the sheet also gives the reader a sense of endless introspection.\r\n\r\nIn
    college, I did an experiment setting individual lines of a poem on clear acetate,
    then overlaying each so that piece was actually four or five trasparent layers
    deep, giving certain lines of text actual physical depth from the top surface.
    The result was \"interesting\" but never refined.\r\n\r\nYour top piece has the
    same sense of layers even though it's only two-dimensional. Good one.\r\n\r\nI'd
    like to see your second piece, with the image and text against a dark field, at
    at least the same size as the top one. The text suffers in size and is totally
    subordinate to the image, which is both dominant and haunting.\r\n\r\nThough it
    has been done before, rendering the image by shading the text alone would make
    the piece riveting to viewers... almost spooky.\r\n\r\nGlad you joined in the
    fun :-) (or angst) :-("
  created: '2005-11-12 00:51:49'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "David, the good news is that while your description is useful to confirm
    to us what you were up to, it wasn't really necessary. What I mean is that your
    design does get across what you've described. And I like the missing \"subject\";
    a sort of \"insert current desire here.\" [There's something about the alignment
    of the question mark and the period beneath that seems a bit off.] Good stuff.\r\n\r\nNorbert,
    thanks. It's not as tuned as it should be...\r\nHere's a larger version of the
    imaged rendering:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/aphorismjesus400.jpg]"
  created: '2005-11-12 01:01:22'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'You could be at the airport. Sitting in between two conversations and those
    two phrases overlap. '
  created: '2005-11-12 01:04:15'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Well, Jason... do you have a design for the T-shirt yet?\r\n\r\nYou latest
    sample would be daunting, stoping people in their tracks, and then coming over
    to you trying to read what it says. Well, on second thought, maybe not, unless
    you don't mind being hastled in the street."
  created: '2005-11-12 03:34:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If Jason comes to Washington, he can get hastled in the streets nomatter
    what he wears.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-12 03:39:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That image in Jason's piece now looks like the Turin shroud?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-12 04:23:39'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "That last one really isn't what I had in mind when this started; it isn't
    really even what I have in mind now, it's just an attempt at where the thread
    has been going. I'm curious, though, about why I'd get hastled in Washington (regardless
    of my outfit). The image is a take on the Turin shroud, it was used as part of
    an anti-Bush campaign recently, I just borrowed it for this exercise (not something
    I'd use \"in the world\").\r\n\r\nWhen I first heard that second aphorism the
    image that came to mind was a Sunday School kid's drawing of the crucifixion;
    early training in drawing images of god that make us sad, and scared, and scarred.
    But it also morphed in my mind to something like \"an image of our life that makes
    us fear\" (rather than afraid). Anyway, when I was looking around for an image
    I couldn't find a kid's drawing, but stumbled upon this Turin-inspired thing.
    A smiling Buddha may have served better. As it is it's a bit too specifically
    precocious for my tastes; I'm more inclined to the pure text version. But for
    a better look at the image itself, try these larger versions <a href=\"http://www.greenboathouse.com/_temp/aphorismjesus.jpg\"
    target=\"_blank\">with</a> and <a href=\"http://www.greenboathouse.com/_temp/jesus.jpg\"
    target=\"_blank\">without text</a>.\r\n\r\nNow, seriously, hastled why?"
  created: '2005-11-12 04:59:50'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Hrant, once again I agree with your message [so THAT's what those dialogue
    bubbles are for; are those the \"instant messages\" at the bottom of the interface?].
    In case others didn't see it, Hrant commented that what struck him about the god
    statement is that sadness isn't something to be avoided, that to do so is inhuman.
    Absolutely. But there is sadness that comes with life's opportunities - my good
    friend's mother's death this summer, his opportunity to be present in that experience,
    not wanting to miss a moment of it, the opportunity to experience that without
    fear - and then there is imposed sadness, created sadness, indulged sadness, and
    that aphorism, to me, speaks to that indulgence to an extreme. Why waste time
    with petty self-defeating mistakes and wounds when you can start at the source?
    Draw up a godhead that judges, and judgement will be your constant bedfellow,
    and sadness will follow you all the days of your life.\r\n\r\nMy friend flew back
    from Japan and walked his father through the days of funerals and wakes, carried
    his brother and sister with him, and immersed himself with gratitude into the
    sadness of his experience. Human."
  created: '2005-11-12 08:17:11'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Many hours since a post other than my rambling, it looks as though perhaps
    I've hijacked the thread and turned it too personal or perhaps ventured into delicate
    territory too indelicately. If offense has been taken due to anything I've gone
    on about I do appologize. Hopefully this thread hasn't died, but if so I do appreciate
    everything everyone has contributed. It's been an interesting and enlightening
    experiment.\r\n\r\nAs for getting hastled in the street, I assume Washington is
    much like Victoria. From my car to the movie theatre last night I was reminded
    that venturing into the downtown core brings with it a maze of revelers and wing-nuts
    from all angles. And then to top it off, the popcorn is always cold."
  created: '2005-11-12 18:38:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jason,\r\nWashington has a lot of pan-handlers who frequent the tourist areas.
    \ They ask anyone who looks like they are from out-of-town for money. \r\nI wouldn't
    blame lack of posts on your \"rambling\" at all.  It is the weekend people do
    other stuff.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-12 19:28:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Rambling? That's our collective middle name!\r\n\r\n> Washington has a lot
    of pan-handlers who frequent the tourist areas.\r\n> They ask anyone who looks
    like they are from out-of-town for money.\r\n\r\nHuh, sounds like Plaka, except
    worse smelling.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-12 19:37:58'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "Other stuff? What do you mean?\r\nOh, wait, you mean turn the computer off.\r\nNo
    [twitch], you couldn't have meant that...\r\n\r\nActually, I'm off to the hardware
    store for various grades of sandpaper to unfinish my dining chairs & table. They're
    just in far too good condition and it's been bothering me for a while. Oh, and
    boxes, I have to fold up a bunch of boxes to ship some books & broadsheets off.
    Yeah, and visit my sister & her kids. And do some laundry. My god! There's so
    much other stuff!"
  created: '2005-11-12 20:15:35'
date: '2005-11-09 07:33:34'
node_type: forum
title: Typographic exercise / challenge...

---
