---
author:
  name: vinylcut
body: Does anyone know of any typefaces from the Romantic period besides Bodoni? Or
  where I could go about finding such information? Thanks.
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I guess you're using \"Romantic\" like Bringhurst? The \"other\" Romantic
    type is the Didot stuff. With Walbaum being a more down-to-earth incarnation (which
    is why it's more readable).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: vinylcut
    body: Yes, like Bringhurst. Thanks!
    created: '2005-11-09 23:07:40'
  created: '2005-11-09 23:02:33'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Bulmer, don't know if Bell qualifies.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-11-10 00:45:18'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "While designed earlier, and despite the fact that the contrast isn't as high
    as the above suggestions, I've used (Adobe's) Fournier for a Romantic feel. And
    if Fournier can fit in here, there's Baskerville as well (I prefer URW's version),
    and then, as H\xE9ctor suggested, Bell. All of these likely fit more closely into
    Bringhurst's Neoclassical category, but I lean towards these for an 18th century
    feel mostly because I just can't bring myself to use Didot/Bodoni/etc."
  created: '2005-11-10 01:36:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The thing to remember about romanticism is that it tended to be strongly
    linked to nationalism, and hence the typographic expressions of romanticism are
    quite particular to individual countries. As Hrant notes, Walbaum is the more
    readable of the romantic types, and would be a fine choice indeed if you are happy
    to evoke specifically German romanticism.\r\n\r\nEnglish romanticism didn't really
    produce any types of its own, so in that context you have the choice of using
    the later neo-classical British types such (of which I would recommend Bulmer)
    or opting for the imported Italian style."
  children:
  - author:
      name: vinylcut
    body: Great; thanks for all the information and suggestions.
    created: '2005-11-14 03:22:51'
  created: '2005-11-10 04:39:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: If not English, then perhaps the Scotch Romans, of which Miller is a good
    revival.
  created: '2005-11-14 05:09:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The Scotch Romans are Victorian, largely post-romantic.
  created: '2005-11-14 07:46:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">The Scotch Romans are Victorian, largely post-romantic.\r\n\r\nIt depends
    when and where you place the Romantic period.\r\nRomantic (classical) music lasted
    into the 20th century.\r\nRobert Bringhurst compared historical type genres with
    movements in other arts, and extended Romanticism, as applied to type, through
    most of 19th century.\r\n\r\nAlthough he understands Neoclassicism and Romanticism
    as contemporary movements, he categorizes Romantic type as having evolved from
    Neoclassical, with greater contrast and finer details. This newer style, which
    was popular throughout the 19th century, especially in the US, is what we now
    term \"Scotch\" roman, or Modern (as in Modern 20). DeVinne and Torino are further
    examples. And certain display weights of Century.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that the
    first \"moderns\" of Didot and Bodoni showed a classical restraint and simplicity
    of design logic, whereas the Scotch moderns are romantic in their quest for the
    awesome, by exaggerating formal qualities: More contrast! Finer hairlines! Bigger
    serifs!\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-14 18:32:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> More contrast! Finer hairlines! Bigger serifs!\r\n\r\n?\r\nThese are exactly
    things Didone does more than Scotch.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-14 19:06:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">?\r\n\r\nBringhurst, Elements, The Romantic Letter, 7.2.7 (1992 edition)."
  created: '2005-11-14 19:14:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I've packed my Bringhurst, but it doesn't really matter:\r\nif he agrees
    with you on this, then he's just wrong too!  :-)\r\nWouldn't be the first time
    either.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-14 19:26:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "OK forget Bringhurst.\r\nCheck out Alexander Wilson's 1833 Specimen (as shown
    in Updike's \"History...\" as the definitive Scotch).\r\nSee how the didone effect
    is exaggerated by the extreme contrast, vertical emphasis (a result of the fine
    horizontal hairlines), and the small aperture (big serifs)."
  created: '2005-11-14 19:39:59'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "In Dan Hosek's <em>Serif: The Magazine of Type & Typography</em> #1 (Fall
    1994) Bringhurst includes in the Romantic Roman genus \"many of the romans of
    Bodoni, Vafflard and the Didots, Austin Scotch Roman, the romans of Marcellin-Legrand
    and Walbaum.\"\r\n\r\nA fuller description can be found in <em>Serif</em> #4 &
    5 (Spring, 1996 and Fall 1997) Under the titles: \"The Invisble Hand: Neoclassical
    Letterforms\" and \"The Invisble Hand: Roman and Italic type in the Romanitic
    Age\"\r\n\r\nThe second of the two begins: \"Neoclassicism and Romanticism are
    two antagonistic, interdependant halves of a single movement in the history of
    European culture.The line between the two is often hard to find, yet it marks
    one of the major evolutionary ruptures in the hiistory of European culture, and
    in the history of European letterforms.\"\r\n\r\nFor Gerrit Noordzij, using his
    catalogue of contrast types, romanticism corresponds to <em>expansion</em> and
    encompasses the baroque, and classicism.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-14 23:37:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: In the fine arts, especially music, romanticism persists and evolves through
    the 19th century. But I think it is useful to consider Victorian as a distinct,
    parallel movement, especially with regard to applied arts. Victorian arts represent
    a kind of domesticated romanticism, from which revolutionary threat has been excised
    and replaced by middle-class stolidity. I think this is the context of the Scotch
    romans and their popularity in Victorian England.
  created: '2005-11-15 01:05:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A form or style persists, long after it has burst upon the scene as a radical
    novelty, eventually becoming a marker of conservatism. So there is nothing inherently
    bourgeois about the Scotch roman.\r\n\r\nI see it as the end of the line, as the
    final specimen of a linear evolution of the typographic mainstream that begins
    and ends with Jenson, with Morris the revivalist as executioner."
  created: '2005-11-15 04:53:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I don't consider the evolution from Jenson to Scotch roman as entirely linear.
    It is linear from Jenson to Caslon -- you can actually trace the direct influences,
    and even movement of particular punchcutters or their types, through France to
    the Netherlands to England. But Baskerville's types deserve to be seen as a truly
    revolutionary development -- within the necessarily conservative confines dictated
    by the conventions of the received alphabet and the restrained nature of neo-classicism*
    --: the 'mainstream' splits into myriad rivulets after him. And I think Noordzij
    is essentially correct, that what drives this revolution in type design is the
    change in the dominant writing tool during this period, from a broad-nib to a
    split-nib, reinforced in Baskerville's case by his experience as an engraver.\r\n\r\n\r\n*
    If I may be forgiven a somewhat obscure architectural parallel, Baskerville is
    the Durham to Didot's St Denis: everything that is necessary to the romantic typeface
    is present in Baskerville's neo-classical types, only restrained."
  created: '2005-11-15 05:53:13'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>If I may be forgiven a somewhat obscure architectural parallel\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    was a great parallel, John! (although I might have inserted another building in
    lieu of Durham\u2026)"
  created: '2005-11-15 10:41:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">what drives this revolution in type design is the change in the dominant
    writing tool\r\n\r\nTo add to this, I would say that technology was the main force
    of change during that one long sequence from Jenson to Scotch.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    it was also the instrument precipitating Morris' revivalism, in the shape of the
    slide projector that Emery Walker used to show him Jenson's typography blown up
    huge, decorating the wall like the tapestries and wallpaper that Morris so loved.\r\n\r\nOther
    instruments of 19th century change: stereotyping in the 1830s which allowed an
    increase in sharpness and detail, and the Benton punchcutter of the 1880s, which
    allowed type to be made more directly from drawings -- that really let the cat
    out of the bag.\r\n\r\nA number of design developments softened the dominance
    of the Jenson-Scotch sequence in the early 19th Century: diversification of weight
    and scaling; decorative display fonts; invention of the sans; the Caslon revival
    (not a re-drawing, but a re-casting from extant moulds). But these did not affect
    the basic form of roman text type. What Morris did was like introducing a flashback
    into a movie or novel, disrupting the narrative sequence. His version of Jenson
    was not a revival, but a caricature; and a little later we find Cheltenham has
    become the most popular new typeface -- a post-Modern design that applies an industrial
    finish to old-style proportions. "
  created: '2005-11-15 18:14:29'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I tought it was Romain du Roi the first typeface to be drawn from scratch
    in a rationalist way, and on which Baskerville was inspired to design his own.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-11-15 18:29:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'A nod to the romain du roi is certainly in order, and I should have mentioned
    it. But the typical characterisation of the romain du roi as ''drawn from scratch
    in a rationalist way'' is apparently incorrect: the minutes of the committee meeting
    reveal that the design was based on the handwritten letters of Nicolas Jarry.
    These forms were transferred to the famous grid, leading to the perception that
    the type was designed by way of a grid. In fact, the romain du roi and Baskerville''s
    types are both based on split-nib written models.'
  created: '2005-11-15 19:23:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">the first typeface to be drawn from scratch\r\n\r\nBefore L.B. Benton's
    mechanical punchcutter, drawings had to be interpreted by human punchcutters working
    by eye. With Benton's device, a pantograph followed the letter shapes as drawn,
    and transferred these directly to metal. This removed the creative/craft influence
    of the human punchcutter, making type design more the preserve of draughtsmen
    (and women), be they in the drawing office of a foundry, or independent designers."
  created: '2005-11-15 20:42:39'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "<em>In fact, the romain du roi and Baskerville\u2019s types are both based
    on split-nib written models.</em>\r\n\r\nI wonder if this is entirely accurate.
    The <em>romain du roi</em> might have been based on the handwritten letters of
    Nicolas Jarry, but the Baskerville types might not be based on written models
    per se. It might be more accurate to say that the <em>type of contrast</em> or
    <em>contrast manipulation</em> inherent in the Baskerville types and the Didonis
    is based on the <em>type of contrast</em> produced by the split-nibbed pen. And
    that this is applied to letterform-<em>construction</em> protocols that are considerably
    older.\r\n\r\nJames Mosley <em>Typography Papaers \u2022 2 \u2022 1997</em> cites
    the <em>romain du roi</em> as the first type for which a preliminary 'design'
    is known to have been made, and sees the associated <em>pied du roi</em> as the
    basis for the reform of type bodies (\u2260 typeform).\r\n\r\nNick, I'm liking
    your take on typographical history.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-15 21:53:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It might be more accurate to say that the type of contrast or contrast
    manipulation inherent in the Baskerville types and the Didonis is based on the
    type of contrast produced by the split-nibbed pen. And that this is applied to
    letterform-construction protocols that are considerably older.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    happy to agree with the first part of this, but not with the second. The stroke
    manipulation model of the split nib heavily influeces 'letterform-construction
    protocols'. Indeed, I'm not sure what protocols exist that are not dictated or
    informed by the stroke manipulation as combined with the ductus angle. The way
    bowls join to stems, for example, is very different in Baskerville's types from
    that employed in oldstyle types from Jenson to Caslon. This is precisely what
    I think of as 'letterform-construction'. The only shared protocols of the oldstyle
    types and the neo-classical are conventions of Italian humanist letter shape that
    precede both, and which are so general as to be uninteresting to contrastive analysis.
    Yes, both Jenson's a and Baskerville's a look like the humanist letter a, but
    it is everything that makes them different that is important. The relationship
    between them is not linear: Baskerville takes a step sideways, drawing on his
    experience as an engraver and responding to the stroke manipulation common in
    the handwriting of his day. There is no more a linear relationship between Jenson
    and Baskerville than there is between Arrighi's chancery hand and Bickham's round
    hand."
  created: '2005-11-15 22:18:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's not just the pen.\r\n18th C. copperplate engraving put typography to
    shame with its finesse.\r\nAnd the stone carved lettering in church and churchyard
    was equally magnificent.\r\nBoth these high-contrast genres introduced non-pen
    stress long before it appeared in type.\r\n\r\n>linear relationship between Jenson
    and Baskerville\r\n\r\nThat's many steps on a single path. The immediate step
    is from Caslon to Baskerville. Whether it's forward or sideways, it's still part
    of a linear temporal narrative. But with Morris you had to go back in time and
    start over, and with the Bauhaus you had to start from scratch. Both despised
    the Scotch modern.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-15 23:04:43'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "<em>It might be more accurate to say that the type of contrast or contrast
    manipulation inherent in the Baskerville types and the Didonis is based on the
    type of contrast produced by the split-nibbed pen. And that this is applied to
    letterform-construction protocols that are considerably older.</em>\r\n\r\nJohn
    writes: \"I\u2019m happy to agree with the first part of this, but not with the
    second.\"\r\n\r\nJohn, I'm basing this on a sentence in chapter 7 \"The Great
    Break\" of my translation of Gerrit Noordzij's <em>The stroke: theory of writing</em>,
    where Noordzij writes: \"The stroke of the broad-nibbed pen is the only norm for
    the pointed flexible pen.\"\r\n\r\nNick, you might be interested to relate your
    point of view to another statement of of Noordzij's in the same chapter, where
    he writes: \"After John Baskerville applied expansion in his letters for printing
    midway through the eighteenth century, it remained the one and only point of departure
    for the contrast of letters for printing until into the twentieth century. William
    Morris and his kindred spirits are an exception. Even the nineteenth century sans
    serifs that are currently modern are derived, by contrast reduction, from expansion.\"\r\n\r\nWhat
    by the way do you mean by 'non-pen stress'? High contrast forms are acheived by
    contrast intensification on an expansion-based template, aren't they?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-16 00:54:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">What by the way do you mean by \u2018non-pen stress\u2019?\r\n\r\nIt's the
    point John made about Baskerville's joints, how he adapted written forms by applying
    engraving techniques. \r\n\r\nA pen can do a lot of tricks, and there are trick
    pens too, but the hardest thing to write (rather than draw) is a thick vertical
    stroke with a fine unbracketed horizontal serif. The stress transition is too
    abrupt for a flexible nib -- it still carries a large blob of ink from the thick
    down stroke, and easing up the pressure abuptly will still leave a rounded terminal.
    If the stroke is eased off into the (right) serif, the shape takes the form of
    a bracket. The perpendicularity of main and serif strokes is a typographic form
    originally taken from ancient lapidary capitals, and applied to both typographic
    upper and lower case. The more constructed (ie built up by multiple strokes) forms
    of engraving and stone carved lettering don't have as much difficulty in rendering
    the \"modern\" serif.\r\n\r\nSo in the 18th Century you have the archetypal lapidary-derived
    serif being pushed technically by stone carving and engraving into a region that
    the pen cannot write, and type will not be able to match until Didot and Bodoni."
  created: '2005-11-16 03:57:41'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "I'm giving this a shameless bump because it's just fantastic and I hope more
    people contribute. (I wish I could)\r\nMeanwhile I'll just keep looking over and
    over at Baskerville samples  to see if I can understand at least <i>some</i> of
    what had been said.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-17 05:47:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Peter, what does Noordzij mean by "expansion", or should I wait till your
    translation is published?
  created: '2005-11-17 07:45:13'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Nick, his translation is already published! I bough the little book, and it
    is fantastic. http://www.hyphenpress.co.uk/titles/stroke/index.html
  created: '2005-11-17 08:57:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Indeed, I\u2019m not sure what protocols exist that are not dictated or
    informed by the stroke manipulation as combined with the ductus angle. The way
    bowls join to stems, for example, is very different in Baskerville\u2019s types
    from that employed in oldstyle types from Jenson to Caslon.\r\n\r\nJohn, do I
    understand you correctly to say that the greater stroke contrast and vertical
    stress are what make the Baskerville connections of bowel to stem fundamentally
    different? Or are there other factors as well you are referring to?  \r\n\r\nSeconding
    Nick Shinn's question: Baskerville is of course wider than Caslon. Is this what
    you mean, Peter by 'expansion' or is there something about the stroke as well? "
  created: '2005-11-17 09:00:56'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Welcome back William!\r\n\r\nExpansion is different from proportion.\r\nSee
    the following page from my ATypI 2003 Vancouver presentation on Henk Krijger's
    Raffia Initials:\r\nwww.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/trans_expansion_rot.pdf\r\n\r\nPressure
    downwards on the flexible nibbed pen creates a swelling in the stroke. Noordzij
    discusses this in terms of the direction of the 'front' and the size of the 'counterpoint'.
    (Note the varying widths of the little vectors im my pdf. Think of the endpoints
    of the vectors in counterpoint terms--literally as well as musically.) The Noordzij
    drawings on the left in my pdf come from Noordzij's <em>Letterletter</em>. The
    drawings on the right come from a paper explaining the math behind Vinyas, a now
    defunct Indian font-creation software.\r\n\r\nExpansion is the model for contrast
    manipulation in the old classification's Modern (Noordzij's Romantic, which includes
    Bringhurst's Neo Classical--Baskerville--and Romantic--Bodoni). Pages 27 to 29
    of <em>The stroke</em> demonstrate the fundamental similarity of the Baskervilles
    and the Didonis (note especially figure 2.13, but refer back to figures 2.8 to
    2.12). You can see it on the Gerrit Noordzij site \r\n(http://www.letterror.com/noordzij/streek/chapter2/index.html)
    \r\nbut buy the book.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-17 13:27:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Thanks Peter. Is there a US outlet to order The Stroke? Amazon says it''s
    not in yet, and I don''t see it in Oak Knoll''s web site. '
  created: '2005-11-17 13:40:05'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Princeton Architectural Press is the North and South American distributor.
    But they also have it listed as forthcoming:\r\nhttps://www.papress.com/bookpage.tpl?isbn=0907259308&cart=1122330390127068\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    often order from Nijhoff & Lee in Amsterdam, but postal charges are bracing. They
    have it in stock.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-17 14:29:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the links.\r\n\r\nAfter a brief look at Noordzij's theory, there
    seems to be a hole in it.\r\n\r\nI don't see how it's physically possible to write
    this kind of letter (below): you can't have one side of your expansion stroke
    curved and the other straight. Perhaps some other calligraphers will comment?\r\n\r\nWell,
    theoretically (as in the Vinyas page mentioned) it could be accomplished with
    rotation, but the ink swell would be impossible to control, and the whole procedure
    is  way beyond baroque wrist gymnastics.\r\n\r\nThis letter form can only be constructed,
    not written.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/didO.jpg]"
  created: '2005-11-17 18:23:56'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick, the hole will disappear if you read the diagram in the context of what
    comes before about the heartline.\r\n\r\nIt does not have to be physically possible
    to write a form for the contrast scheme imposed by a tool in the hand to be or
    become inherent in or underly a constructed form, i.e., to give the constructed
    form a 'logic.'[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-17 19:25:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '(Side Note: Nick have you seen Dwiggins'' Tippecanoe?)'
  created: '2005-11-17 21:03:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Still seeing that hole.\r\n\r\nTippecanoe?\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-17 21:11:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'll dig it up for you. A wacky Bodoni-esque experiment.
  created: '2005-11-17 21:15:33'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick: <a href=\"http://www.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/typophile/bodonipresupposesexpansion.jpg\">expansion
    underlies bodoni</a>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-17 21:48:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">expansion underlies Bodoni\r\n\r\nI like the Noordzij concept of the moving
    front, but I'm wondering if in the end, with all the possibilities of rotation
    and expansion it's just a mathematically equalivant way of describing strokes.
    Eg. they could equally well be characterized by a Bezier curves or quadric splines.
    The moving front is heuristically nice, but if you get to the Bodoni where you
    couldn't possibly write it with a pen--it has to be constructed--I'm wondering
    what is gained by the moving front way of thinking in such cases. Are you really
    saying more when you say 'expansion' rather than 'greater contrast'?\r\n\r\nObviously
    after I read the book, which I very much want to do, I'll know more. "
  created: '2005-11-17 22:25:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"You can see it on the Gerrit Noordzij site\r\n(http://www.letterror.com/noordzij/streek/chapter2/index.html)\r\nbut
    buy the book.\"\r\n\r\nMy book just arrived in the mail.  I am about to start
    reading it.  Gee? I wonder who did the Translation? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-18 00:08:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "William, bezier curves and quadratic splines can tell a you great deal about
    the structure of an outline but very little about the characteristics of the shape
    they contain. \r\n\r\nMathematically they are as you suggest clearly inter-translatable,
    the one into the other, with perhaps some slight margin of practical indeterminacy.
    But for an understanding of typographical history Noordzij's schematisms are far
    superior, even to the feature-description approach that dominates most handbooks.
    Noordzij's schematisms are to feature descriptions what genotypical descriptions
    are to phenotypical descriptions.\r\n\r\nRelative to the topic at hand they help
    one see the genotypical commonality between the baskerville and the didonis in
    a non-trivial way. More broadly they provoke a powerful reading of typographical
    history as consisting of various explorations along surfaces of the typographic
    cube that is displayed on the cover of <em>The stroke</em> and elaborated somewhat
    more fully in Noordzij's 1991 contribution to Robert A. Morris and Jacques Andr\xE9
    (ed.), <em>Raster imaging and digital typography 2: papers from the second RIDT
    meeting, held in Boston, October 14-16</em>, 1991 New York, 1991, pp. 34-42\r\n\r\nI
    used the word non-trivial, because relating modes of <em>contrast manipulation</em>
    or <em>contrast <strong>re-production</strong></em> in punchcutting--as well as
    in bezier or spline adjustment in digital type design--to modes of <em>contrast
    <strong>production</strong></em> in the activity it is continuous with (and keeps
    reasserting it's continuity with--Hrant might say: to it's detriment!) is intstructive
    (because it gives us insight into the internal logic of typographical history),
    and it might provoke even more drastic norm violations (relative to the stroke
    of the pen) in our contrast manipulations.\r\n\r\n(And it is possible that fundamental--rather
    than incidental--norm-violations, such as those introduced in Bloemsma's Legato,
    where the violations are neither additive or subtractive (or based on sampling,
    like for instance Fudoni), might lead to something that is advantageous from a
    'heightened readability' point of view.)\r\n\r\nChris: who?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-18 01:07:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Chris: who?\"\r\n\r\nSome guy named Peter Enneson :-)\r\nThanks for doing
    all the work!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-18 01:11:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Thanks, Peter. My translation: the moving line model helps illuminate the
    history of type because its evolution is influenced by the changes in pens, and
    the moving line is a kind of mathematically generalized pen. Different variations
    in the moving line--translation, rotation, expansion, can characterize well different
    periods and the designs associated with them.\r\n\r\nI do find this idea very
    valuable, and look forward to reading the book. \r\n\r\nMy only comment at this
    point would be that the moving line model has certain limits also. The modification
    of letter forms for type, as opposed to hand writing, takes into account optical
    illusions and the goal of evenness of color. There are also in roman type 'architectural'
    factors, viewing the character as a weighted object resting on the base line.
    So in so far as these are not pen-driven, the moving front model would mainly
    illuminate by how these typographic features break the rules of the physical pen.
    \ \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-18 14:25:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "William: <em>the moving line model has certain limits also.</em>\r\n\r\nThink
    of it as a coarse-grained template-like reference point for getting a handle on
    typographic stroke-contrast, rather than as a mechanism for 'thick description,'
    i.e., for charting each inflection of every constructed stroke and terminal.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, I think your restatement is apt.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-18 15:18:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '>it'
  created: '2005-11-18 21:15:48'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "<em>...it's just a mathematically equalivant way of describing strokes.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    the same way that the ptolemaic way of describing celestial mechanics is mathematically
    'equivalent' to the copernican way.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-18 21:59:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">same way that the ptolemaic way of describing celestial mechanics is mathematically
    \u2018equivalent\u2019 to the copernican way.\r\n\r\nUnfair temptation to an historian
    of science!\r\n\r\nOk, I give in. This is a revealing analogy. First, the Ptolemaic
    way--circular epicycles--never got the orbits as accurate as the when Kepler put
    elliptical orbits into the Copernican system. Then he hit it much more accurately.
    In addition you have to do the epicycles 'ad hoc', meaning that you have to insert
    them in different ways for each orbit after the fact. The ellipses give you the
    right thing for the whole orbit, right away. Then there is the matter that Newton
    came along and showed you could get the ellipses from an inverse square law and
    his laws of mechanics, which also worked terrestrially. Game over. \r\n\r\nThe
    way the ellipses in a Copernican system are not ad hoc I think also may point
    to the limitation of the utility of the moving front description. If you restrict
    the moving front to translation and rotation, then you get the 'ductus' (am I
    using it in the right sense John?) of pen drawn letters--the physics is right,
    following the analogy. But once you have unrestricted expansion and contraction,
    you can describe any shape ad hoc, which makes the model less interesting, as
    it is disconnected from any underlying physics. \r\n\r\nI think if you put rules
    on how the expansion or contraction takes place, then it stays interesting. For
    example, if you could specify a restriction on what kind of expansion can take
    place, and get Baskerville or Bodoni--or better yet one and not the other--then
    you would really have something. \r\n\r\nNoordzij's idea is already very revealing
    that the 'baroque' faces, as Bringhurst calls them, have rotation, whereas Jenson
    etc did not. But to get as much insight on later developments I think you have
    to put more constraints on the expansion and get it to match the facts. If no
    restrictions, then it becomes ad hoc and has less explanatory power. \r\n\r\n
    \   "
  created: '2005-11-18 22:28:02'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "William, would you consider Noordzij's 'flexibility of the pen' coefficient
    in his figure 2.15 (chapter 2) such a constraint? Note also his comment just before
    that: \"Pure expansion is, from my vantage point, a decadent contrast sort that
    removes itself from systematic description because of what happens in the thin
    segments.\"\r\n\r\n(You'll find more on expansion in chapter 7, and a perspective
    on changes in contrast in chapter 8)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-19 04:38:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It does not have to be physically possible to write a form for the contrast
    scheme imposed by a tool in the hand to be or become inherent in or underly a
    constructed form, i.e., to give the constructed form a \u2018logic.\u2019</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is very important to understand when reading <em>The Stroke</em>: Noordzij is
    providing an analytical tool for describing what is happening in a stroke, not
    a model for writing. Nick, the Bodoniesque o is easy to understand in terms of
    expansion if you remember that at every point along the stroke the 'heartline'
    is equi-distant from the two edges. So it is perfectly possible, in the expansion
    model, for one side of the stroke to be straight and the other to be curved, and
    you can see exactly how by mapping the heartline, i.e the movement of the stroke.\r\n\r\nI
    love expansion. Expansion is the new black :)"
  created: '2005-11-19 07:24:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">would you consider Noordzij\u2019s \u2018flexibility of the pen\u2019 coefficient
    in his figure 2.15 (chapter 2) such a constraint? \r\n\r\nYes, that's exactly
    what I was talking about. Obviously from your quote Noordzij is well aware of
    the issue I was pinpointing, and it seems does not fall into the trap of becoming
    ad hoc in his explanations. Now I'd better shut up until I've read the book. \r\n\r\nThanks
    for your work translating it!"
  created: '2005-11-19 10:10:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "John, I wonder if it was clear my \"Nick: expansion underlies bodoni\" was
    a link?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/typophile/bodonipresupposesexpansion.jpg\r\n\r\nTo
    get back to the subject of Romanticism, it is hard to see why the term romanticism
    should be linked to 'expansion' <em>per se</em>. It would rather seem that the
    flexble pen should be the instrument <em>par excellance</em> of the Rococo. \r\n\r\nBringhurst
    talks of both Neoclassical and Romantic types as having a rationalist axis. This
    seems to fit. It is as if, after the <em>romain du roi</em>, which rationalized
    the type surface, opportunistic use of expansion and the contrast it provides
    was able to happen. \r\n\r\nBut the question also arises how to think of romanticism
    in terms of a rationalist axis. (In the history of philosophy Kant is sometimes
    thought of in classical idealist terms, and Hegel in romantic idealist terms.
    Descartes and Hume, meanwhile epitomize two subcurrents with rationalism)\r\n\r\nI
    think there's still some work to do in aligning typographical history with cultural
    history.\r\n\r\nBringurst wants to use terms like Neoclassical and Romantic as
    'genus' descriptors, by anology with biological classification. While I think
    the principle of genus / species thinking in type classification terms is fertile,I've
    wondered about the aptness of the terms.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-19 16:33:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "There is very little lettering or type that can be specifically identified
    as rococo in the sense of belonging to that aesthetic movement and its time. Of
    course, there is a lot of 19th century split-nib calligraphy that could be might
    be adjectively referred to as rococo in exhibiting extreme ornament, but this
    is done after the rococo period has ended and when other arts have passed through
    neo-classicalism to romanticism.\r\n\r\nRomanticism inherits the rationalist axis
    from neo-classicism, just as it inherits the symphony orchestra. It isn't romantic
    in itself: it is what romantics do with it that matters."
  created: '2005-11-19 19:58:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">expansion underlies bodoni\r\n\r\nExpansion (stroke contrast) is a quality
    of broad and split nibbed pens. It is also pleasing at the most basic level, as
    an example of comparative proportion, found in the golden section. But the exaggeration
    of this basic quality (prior to the 19th century) of type did not come from the
    impetus of writing instruments.\r\n\r\nIt's extremely unlikely that type founders
    would have been inspired by calligraphers to produce the Didone style. In the
    first place, Calligraphers did not do vertical roman, because it is counter-intuitive.
    Stilted and wooden. You would need to use two pens to write a \"Bodoni\" -- a
    broad nib for the straight verticals and a split-nib for the curves. Secondly,
    it simply would not occur to a calligrapher to have any shape other than an oval
    for the heartline of a humanist (as opposed to blackletter) \"o\". The kinked
    \"heartline\" diagram you've linked to is theoretically possible, but physically
    impractical, if not impossible -- there's no leeway for even the slightest deviation
    without it looking cack-handed. Thirdly, calligraphers had been doing high-contrast
    lettering for centuries.\r\n\r\nThe spur to the Baskerville style was engraving,
    a form of printed reproduction in direct competition with typography. Consider
    the 18th century illustrated pattern books of Robert Adam, Thomas Chippendale,
    etc., where the exquisitely engraved lettering on the plates is directly comparable
    with the much cruder letterpress typography on the text pages. It must have been
    galling. \r\n\r\nAnd the famous example, Pine's Horace from the 1730s, where the
    whole book was engraved, after it had been typeset \"for position\".\r\n\r\nThe
    conceptualization behind Baskerville's rationalization is towards one end -- achieving
    maximum finesse on a par with the engraved letter. \r\n\r\nThe schema behind the
    didone 'o\" is not a written heartline, but this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Ohoh.jpg]"
  created: '2005-11-20 19:12:55'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "This lead somewhere Nick. I think your observations about the structure of
    heartline in the bodoniesque 'o' are valid and bring us to the kind of point Williams
    questions brought us to as well.\r\n\r\nYou say: <em>But the exaggeration of this
    basic quality [...] of type did not come from the impetus of writing instruments.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think this might very well be the case. However, this suggests you think the basic
    quality <em><strong>is</strong></em> nevertheless there. That's all I wanted to
    assert. I don't think Noordzij wanted to make any assertion about the structure
    of the heartline, just that expansion about one and the same heartline can produce
    results that very markedly in appearance, ressembling those we see in Baskerville
    as opposed to Bodoni, but have a common denominator.\r\n\r\nAfter he is finished
    talking about <em>types</em> of contrast Noordzij begins to talk about <em>changes</em>
    in contrast (increase / decrease). His schematisms for this are very different
    from his schematisms of types of contrast. (Chapter 8 of <em>The stroke</em>)
    So the sources for the <em>type</em> of contrast used can vary from the provocations
    for it's <em>exaggeration</em>.\r\n\r\nAside from that, Noordzij's \"The Frankilin
    Letter\" in <em>Letterletter</em> does present compelling evidence that Bodoni's
    efforts had something to do with the 'standard of handwriting' at the time.\r\n\r\nI'd
    expect that what you see and what Noordzij sees can be made part of a larger picture.
    Let me try:\r\nThe didoni 'o' is a special case of systematic exaggerative contrast
    manipulation on an broadly expansion-based frame, valued because it approaches
    a rational geometrical ideal (your schema). Contemporary engraving provided prototypes
    of how this might be pursued. The romanticism in it is the faith or illusion that
    text letterforms can approximate such an ideal and still be viable in functional
    terms.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-20 22:41:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Expansion (stroke contrast) is a quality of broad and split nibbed pens.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is not what I -- or Noorzij -- means by expansion. Expansion is a particular kind
    of stroke contrast, and is contrasted with translation, which is the kind of stroke
    contrast one gets from broad nibbed pen. The third kind of contrast is produced
    by rotation. None of these are 'pure': in practice some amount of rotation is
    almost always present in all writing, even if it is not the dominant and intentional
    method, and if you press really hard with a broad nib pen you can produce a kind
    of expansion. Again, what Noordzij is providing is an analytical tool: a way of
    looking at strokes and determining what is happening within them. The practical
    usefulness of this analysis is e.g. in determining the degree and kind of consistency
    across a collection of letters.\r\n\r\nThe Didot and Bodoni types, of course,
    represent a rationalist exaggeration of 'the swelling line' -- to use the term
    James Mosley adopted to describe Cresci's influential calligraphy --, but the
    point is that it is describable in terms of the expansion model of stroke construction."
  created: '2005-11-21 01:07:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "{Caveat: I haven't read every word in this thread; but I'll try later.}\r\n\r\n>
    pantograph ... removed the creative/craft influence of the human punchcutter\r\n\r\nThis
    is true to some extent, but not entirely, for the simple reason that many type
    designers were also punchcutters; in fact some of them [used to] draw the desired
    shape on the head of the punch first!\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m wondering what is gained
    by the moving front way of thinking in such cases.\r\n\r\nVery very good question.
    My answer: a cozy illusion is maintained. The hole Nick is seeing is not there,
    but there is a veritable black hole elsewhere, one that would suck all the progressive
    juices from most any mind...\r\n\r\n> it would be quite possible to \u201Cdescribe\u201D
    Legato or Fudoni in similar manner\r\n\r\nNot Legato, because it's anti-chirographic.
    Legato is a true, full break with the extant, pervasive ideological lethargy;
    the most significant font since Gutenberg.\r\n\r\n> Noordzij is providing an analytical
    tool\r\n\r\nDunno. He doesn't seem to be stopping people from continuing to actually
    apply those ideas... Quite the contrary in fact. To me, he is partly responsible
    for the misapplication of his ideas.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-24 19:22:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Not Legato,\r\n\r\nLegato is no exception.\r\nUsing Noorzij's descriptive
    system of translation, rotation, and expansion, it's possible to describe the
    structure of any typeface (any full-contrast graphic image, in fact), as if it
    is being \"written\" by a pen."
  created: '2005-11-24 19:50:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You're just now really discovering Noordzij. Give yourself some more time
    to really discover Legato; maybe one day you'll realize that it's a result of
    a brilliant, brave and selfless Craftsman.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-24 20:02:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">maybe one day you\u2019ll realize that it\u2019s a result of a brilliant,
    brave and selfless Craftsman.\r\n\r\nI guess you didn't see the memoriam I wrote
    in the TypeCon2005 program.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\n>You\u2019re just now really discovering
    Noordzij\r\n\r\nInteresting, but not really my kind of thing. Probably won't get
    the book.\r\nHere's my definition of \"rotation\" -- what you got?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Paper.jpg]"
  created: '2005-11-24 21:07:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'll read the memoriam, even though you don't get Legato.\r\n\r\n> not really
    my kind of thing.\r\n\r\nMine even less. But:\r\n1) I still pay attention.\r\n2)
    Neither is that swirly thing.\r\n\r\nRotation is quite boring anyway. Laterality
    is the gold mine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-24 22:16:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">you don\u2019t get Legato\r\n\r\nIt's not about me Hrant.\r\nIf you think
    Legato is so great, where are your type designs utilizing Evert's discoveries?\r\nIsn't
    it about time your foundry actually published some typefaces? Including some which
    demonstrate the principles you so regularly propound? Walk the talk, man."
  created: '2005-11-24 22:44:51'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Nice swirl.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-11-25 01:15:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Hrant, what's "laterality"?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]
  created: '2005-11-25 17:12:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not sure. The base sense is obvious; on the other hand the only thing that's
    clear to me concerning the rich, relevant sense of the term is that it's central
    to the human existence (much more so than something Modernistically appealing
    like rotation). I have yet to grasp the true depths of the issue, but I feel strongly
    that the way the human \"machine\" is physically built* makes the proper -if maybe
    always fuzzy- consideration of laterality a big, golden key.\r\n\r\n* And I don't
    mean \"intelligent design\", thank you very much.\r\n\r\nBTW, \"The Alphabet and
    the Brain\" is only book I know of that considers the readability facet of laterality
    with any seriousness; unfortunately the basic premise of the book's editors has
    a chauvinistic undercurrent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-25 19:27:07'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "?\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-11-25 20:15:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: laterality is the new bouma
  created: '2005-11-25 21:33:14'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Nick Shinn: \"Legato is no exception\" / \"[Noordzij's <em>The stroke</em>
    / moving front] not my kind of thing\"\r\n\r\nHrant Papazian: \"mine even less\"
    / \"rotation is [...] boring\" / \"what is gained?: a cozy illusion is maintained\"
    / \"a veritable black hole elsewhere, one that would suck all the progressive
    juices from most any mind\"\r\n\r\nLet me plunge in and start sucking:\r\n1) Legato
    <em>is</em> no exception.\r\n\r\nTo understand what follows, you will need to
    have looked at:\r\na) http://www.evertbloemsma.nl/legato/about_legato/about_legato.asp\r\n\r\nb)
    www.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/typophile/paillason_sm.jpg\r\n\r\nAnd it would
    help to have read:\r\ni) \"The Franklin Letter\" in <em>Letterletter</em>, \r\nii)
    Chapter 8 (Changes in contrast) of Gerrit Noordzij's <em>The stroke</em> and \r\niii)
    Gerrit Noordzij's 1991 contribution to Robert A. Morris and Jacques Andr\xE9 (ed.),
    \"<em>Raster imaging and digital typography 2: papers from the second RIDT meeting,
    held in Boston, October 14-16, 1991 New York</em>, 1991, pp. 34-42, paying special
    attntion to the following two images:\r\nwww.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/typophile/gn_cube_sm.jpg\r\n\r\nwww.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/typophile/cube_underside_sm.jpg\r\n\r\n\r\nGerrit
    Noordzij's schema for contrast exaggeration is this:\r\nwww.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/typophile/contrast_change_exag.jpg\r\n\r\n(Noordzij:
    The top of the block is a cross with a given contrast. Proceeding towards the
    bottom the thicker stroke becomes thicker, so that every horizontal cross-section
    shows a greater contrast than the top. An end of increases in contrast is reached
    when the thin stroke no longer has a meaning: at the bottom of the block the cross
    has turned into a rectangle.)\r\n\r\nGerrit Noordzij's schema for contrast reduction
    is this:\r\nwww.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/typophile/contrast_change_decr.jpg\r\n\r\n(Noordzij:
    The thin stroke becomes thicker towards the bottom. The effect is a decrease in
    contrast. The endpoint of this decrease is reached when the strokes are equally
    thick.)\r\n\r\nThe basic scheme for the contrast in most Bodini romans is contrast
    exaggeration on an expansion frame following the model of Paillason's \"Premiere
    Position\"\r\nThe basic scheme for the letter \"T\" in the title page to Bodoni's
    <em>Essai des caracteres de l'imprimerie</em> (discussed in \"The Franklin Letter\")
    is shown in Paillason's \"Seconde\".\r\n\r\nThe basic scheme for the traditional
    sans serif is contrast reduction on an expansion frame (contrast reduction makes
    serifs superfluous: it eats them up). The expansion base accounts for the vertical
    stress Bloemsma emphasizes as characteristic of univers and Helvetica.\r\n\r\nBloemsma's
    <em>Balance</em> is contrast reduction on the contrast type shown in Paillason's
    \"Seconde\"\r\n\r\nIn <em>Legato</em> Bloemsma has found his way onto the back
    row in the base of Gerrit Noordzij's cube (top row of the 5 x 5 \"cube_underside\"
    grid). This row represents contrast reduction on a translation base (with the
    caveat that some rotation has been added--making the face neo-mannerist). And
    he has done this not by starting from translation, but from an introduction of
    inner form / outer form counter-rotations in an expansion based context.\r\n\r\nOn
    inspection, the tension caused by Bloemsma's rotation seems to make the white
    of the word more active or salient vis a vis the black. Here he is in a line that
    includes W. A. Dwiggins. If I am right (in my understanding of perceptual processing
    in reading) about the place of 'the map of salient whites' in reading (see the
    \"bouma as bounded map thread\") we can see why Bloemsma is justified in thinking
    he is reconnecting (optically, 'after-helvetica') the single units of our scripts,
    or restoring  and extending the optical integrity of the wordform.\r\n\r\nBecause
    Bloemsma's achievement circles back around to meet translation plus rotation,
    we learn something about mannerist and neo-mannerist (Bringhurst says: Lyrical
    Modernist) form. That is, we learn something about what's (mostly) boring, and
    what is to be gained by reading.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-25 23:04:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You fail to mention the <cite>little</cite> problem... GN's cube is missing
    (by his own admission) something central to good type design: the dimension of
    scale. And it is missing this because chirography cannot go that deep; it is a
    plaything of the surface. Optical scaling is anti-chirographic, and in more ways
    than one.\r\n\r\nAs for Legato, it very much is an exception (no matter how badly
    a Modernist wants to put everything under the sun among his neat row of boxes)
    because it treats the Black and White as equals (on some level, and an important
    level). 1) Chirography cannot do this, no matter how sincerely it wants to; 2)
    There certainly are other fonts that are anti-chirographic, but only by circumstance,
    and not in a way that can really hope to mark progress; all such efforts have
    been oblivious to good notan. In some cases (like WAD) the designer didn't even
    realize he was being anti-chirographic! Dwiggins actually thought the only reason
    for extenders was aesthetics. Puhleez. The thing is, he was so genially good in
    other ways that he made up for the theoretical void between his ears.\r\n\r\nLegato
    is an instance of progress in our craft that virtually nobody else could have
    carried out. Every type designer should have the humility to learn from it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-26 01:06:10'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Does / How does Legato address the problem of scale?\r\n\r\n\"As for Legato,
    it very much is an exception [...], an instance of progress in our craft\"\r\n\r\nYes,
    that (and just how, or in what respect) is what my post attempted to pin-point.\r\n\r\n\r\nBy
    'laterality', did you mean lateral connectivity across the bounded map?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-11-26 03:44:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Legato does not address the dimension of scale.* Doing so would actually
    not be exceptional (although it would still be great, as well as anti- or at least
    non-chirographic) since that's been done before. Legato's \"first\" is in the
    domain of notan; the ideal form of which (at least in terms of text fonts) precludes
    the GN moving front (since it's hopelessly Black-centric).\r\n\r\n* Although it's
    interesting to note that Evert's fonts tend to work well small.\r\n\r\n> did you
    mean lateral connectivity across the bounded map?\r\n\r\nI meant laterality of
    the human experience as a whole. Including things like the armature of the neck,
    and yes, the shape of the retina and lateral bouma effects, etc. In comparison,
    rotation seems to me to be in the conscious domain, and in a way artificial, or
    at least circumstancial and/or unintuitive; which is why the invention of the
    wheel was such a notable (and noted) leap, as opposed to just a \"duh\" moment.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-26 04:06:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">the Black and White as equals\r\n\r\nWhat do you make of Fred Smeijers'
    \"Counterpunch\" -- where he addresses the role of the counterpunch in the design/production
    process? Isn't this a strong argument for the thematic structural importance of
    \"white\" space in the typographic tradition? "
  created: '2005-11-26 17:28:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, many people -certainly including GN- have explicitly and sometimes forcefully
    pointed out the importance of the White. In fact virtually every type designer
    is aware of the issue, since simply defining sidebearings is part of it. But there's
    a difference between seeing an issue and <cite>wanting</cite> to address it, versus
    actually doing the right thing about it; that's why I wrote \"no matter how sincerely
    it wants to\" above.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-26 18:16:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The greatest proponents of using white space were designers similar to the
    folks who came out of Basle. There was perhaps more attention paid to negative
    space there in logos, letterforms, and typgraphy.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-26 18:47:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In fact I would say that typographers have used\r\nthe White much better
    than type designers so far.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-26 19:52:19'
date: '2005-11-09 22:57:37'
title: The Romantic period (18th & 19th C)

---
