---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: "I've been doing some background reading on the new FlashType renderer in Macromedia
  Flash 8. See this <a href=\"http://livedocs.macromedia.com/flash/8/main/wwhelp/wwhimpl/common/html/wwhelp.htm?context=LiveDocs_Parts&file=00001434.html\">basic
  overview</a> and this explanation of <a href=\"http://livedocs.macromedia.com/flash/8/main/00001435.html#223833\">rendering
  options</a>.\r\n\r\nIronically, the example of Flash rendering shown <a href=\"http://www.kaourantin.net/2005/08/some-text-features-in-flash-player-8.html\">here</a>
  uses my Constantia, one of the MS ClearType fonts, looking rather the worse-for-wear
  in FlashType: very grey with lots of colour fringing. Unfortunately, there doesn't
  seem to be any way to determine which of the rendering options was used in this
  example.\r\n\r\nI'm wondering if any of our resident rendering fanatics (Raph?)
  might have access to Flash 8 and could prepare some comparison samples showing the
  same text and font specs with different FlashType options enabled?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: (simple post to keep this request on the front page)
  created: '2005-11-12 01:01:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Also wonder if it has a BGR option too, and will it pick up the registry
    settings if the ClearType is set to BGR on a Windows machine. \r\n\r\nThe other
    obvious question the demo raises is how would Flash handle a font with embedding
    set to \"print and preview\" - would the document be locked for editing in accordance
    with the OpenType spec?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-12 02:41:39'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I've just been playing around with some of the anti-aliasing settings in
    Flash 8. On the Properties Palette for text, there is a pop-up that lets you control
    anti-aliasing of text with the following choices:\r\n\r\n\_\_Use device fonts\r\n\_\_Bitmap
    text (no anti-alias)\r\n\_\_Anti-alias for animation\r\n\_\_Anti-alias for readability\r\n\_\_Custom
    anti-alias...\r\n\r\n\"Use device fonts\" means that the system anti-aliasing
    (with settings controlled at the system level) will be used, but also means that
    the font needs to be installed on the system running the animation.\r\n\r\n\"Bitmap
    text\" is just what it sounds like. It works just as it did in the previous version
    of Flash.\r\n\r\n\"Anti-alias for animation\" looks like ordinary grayscale anti-aliasing.\r\n\r\n\"Anti-alias
    for readability\" uses sub-pixel antialiasing (like ClearType). I'm seeing some
    color fringing on my LCD Apple Cinema Display with this setting which I don't
    see in other programs.\r\n\r\n\"Custom anti-aliasing\" lets you tweak the anti-aliasing
    settings by controlling \"Thickness\" and \"Sharpness\". It also shows two values
    which can only be accessed via ActionScript--\"Inside Cutoff\" and \"Outside Cutoff\".
    I don't know what those mean (yet).\r\n\r\nHere is a simple sample I created:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flash-aa1.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    first custom setting I did lowers the amount of color fringing, but looks fuzzier.
    The second custom setting shows what the maximum sharpness value does. Lots of
    color fringing. I don't know yet how the other two settings affect any of this."
  created: '2005-11-12 04:19:09'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>The other obvious question the demo raises is how would Flash handle
    a font with embedding set to \u201Cprint and preview\u201D - would the document
    be locked for editing in accordance with the OpenType spec?</em>\r\n\r\nAs far
    as I know, Flash does not embed fonts themselves. Instead it creates a set of
    symbols based on the outlines. In other words, it converts fonts to an internal
    graphic format."
  created: '2005-11-12 04:22:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Hmmm. I'm seeing a awful lot of color fringing in the second and fourth samples
    there, myself.\r\n\r\nIt will be interesting to delve deeper into this once the
    Adobe/Macromedia merger is complete.\r\n\r\nI will say that their rendering engine
    is very tiny indeed, impressively so.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-11-12 08:42:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Let's see what's going on here.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FT1.gif]\r\nA
    close-up of the 'Anti-aliasing for readability':\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FT2.gif]\r\nAnd
    with subpixels:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FT3.gif]"
  created: '2005-11-12 09:03:10'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "For Hrant:\r\n\r\n13ppem:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flash-aa13ppm.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n13ppem
    bold:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flash-aa13ppemb.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n16ppem:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flash-aa16ppm.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n16ppem
    bold:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flash-aa16ppemb.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n(Note:
    The font used here is my Proxima Nova Condensed, Light and Semibold weights. The
    earlier example was Extra Condensed Light.)\r\n\r\nBy the way, I can see a bit
    of color fringing on the new \"Insert image\" text below the Comment window. A
    little bit of Flash going on there (in case you were wondering why Flash 8 Player
    is required to upload images)."
  created: '2005-11-12 15:15:14'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I also wonder if, in an actual Flash animation (these are just screen grabs
    above), the sub-pixel anti-aliasing is magically turned off for CRTs?\r\n\r\nOne
    way to find out...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.marksimonson.com/flashaa/F8AASettings.html\r\n\r\nIf
    anybody is using a CRT, let us know what you see."
  created: '2005-11-12 15:58:08'
- author:
    name: edeverett
    picture: 109635
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/flash-crt.png]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nNo noticable
    difference in a CRT...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-12 17:58:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "<em>As far as I know, Flash does not embed fonts themselves. Instead it creates
    a set of symbols based on the outlines. In other words, it converts fonts to an
    internal graphic format.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think that should matter. Converting
    a font to another format, proprietary or otherwise, doesn't absolve you of your
    responsibilities around the font creator's wishes. \r\n\r\nThis demo (http://www.kaourantin.net/2005/08/some-text-features-in-flash-player-8.html)
    seems to prove that they are storing enough outline and metric information for
    this to be considered a converted fully functional font. This is not a simple
    convert to outlines static image. \r\n\r\nConverting a font prior to embedding
    in a document is fine, and if that's what Macromedia/Adobe are doing and they're
    following the OpenType spec with respect to font embedding permissions then I
    don't see a problem.\r\n\r\nIf however the claim is that this is not \"font embedding\"
    as defined in the OpenType spec then that changes everything. Then the font creators
    wishes around conversion and redistribution have to be respected, and as practically
    no-one allows this currently, someone wanting to use a font in Flash in this way
    would have to get permission from a font creator to convert and redistribute in
    this way.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-12 18:08:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> No noticable difference in a CRT\u2026 \r\n\r\nI set my system to Blue-Green-Red
    subpixel orientation using the ClearType Tuner, reloaded your page and it's exactly
    the same. Also adjusted the gamma using the tuner's slider bar and although the
    Windows GDI text changes contrast the Flash text does not change, even on page
    reload.  \r\n\r\nThis tells me that it ignores user display preferences and what
    the system knows about the display (at least on Windows).  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-12 18:15:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Mark, is your Proxima font TT or PS?\r\n\r\nSi, I'm not surprised that the
    FlashType renderer is ignoring system display settings, particularly those related
    specifically to ClearType: it seems to be pretty stripped-down to make it as small
    as possible. A big part of the success of the Flash Player is the quick download
    and install time.\r\n\r\nAlso, the rendering options provided to Flash creators
    indicate that Macromedia see rendering very much as a part of swf creation rather
    than swf display. The maker of a swf has control over what kind of rendering he
    wants to use and how he wants to tune it. The viewer of the swf has no control.
    Effectively, this is the opposite of most display technology."
  created: '2005-11-12 18:49:58'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Mark, is your Proxima font TT or PS?</em>\r\n\r\nOpenType CFF."
  created: '2005-11-12 18:57:16'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Converting a font prior to embedding in a document is fine, and if that\u2019s
    what Macromedia/Adobe are doing and they\u2019re following the OpenType spec with
    respect to font embedding then I don\u2019t see a problem.</em>\r\n\r\nAs a font
    developer, I don't really have a problem with whatever they are doing because
    the font, however it or some representation of it is embedded in the .swf, cannot
    be extracted as a font, cannot be used outside the .swf, in short, is not being
    distributed \"as a font.\" However, I can imagine a situation that would bug me.\r\n\r\nSay
    someone created an online application that sets type and generates a GIF or JPEG
    image for the user and delivers this as a file. And, let's say, this application
    includes a selection of fonts embedded within it, including one of mine. Such
    an application would seem to cross the line between application of a font (generally
    what users are expected to do with fonts) and redistribution of a font (a right
    font developers normally reserve for themselves and their agents). I would expect
    the developer of such a Flash application to acquire special rights from the owners
    of the fonts just as anyone who wants to bundle fonts with a desktop application.\r\n\r\nOnline
    font preview test drives made in Flash (or other methods) come very close to crossing
    this line, but usually include some method (e.g., background patterns) to make
    it difficult or complicated to swipe."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Si_Daniels
      picture: 110446
    body: "<EM> As a font developer, I don\u2019t really have a problem with whatever
      they are doing because the font, however it or some representation of it is
      embedded in the .swf, cannot be extracted as a font, cannot be used outside
      the .swf, in short, is not being distributed \u201Cas a font.\u201D </EM>\r\n\r\nI
      think it's a slippery slope as to where you draw the line. You may not mind
      this case, probably because it's so close to document embedding which almost
      every designer feels as acceptable. That's why my hope is that they're following
      the spec and observing the embedding permissions set by the designer. \r\n\r\nThe
      other case you mention seems less like document embedding, and more like regular
      font redistribution which indeed requires additional rights from the font creator.
      \r\n\r\n"
    created: '2005-11-12 19:31:59'
  created: '2005-11-12 19:18:25'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Here's a question, Mark: what if the online type-setting application used
    the actual font, licensed directly from you? Wouldn't that be just as troublesome?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-11-13 03:10:35'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: If it was just the basic license, hell yeah. If if was the "1000 or more"
    user license, maybe not. In such a situation I would expect to be contacted about
    doing a custom license since it is not unlike redistribution, which is definitely
    prohibited (pretty much the only thing that is prohibited) by my license. (I am,
    however, in the process of rewriting it to clarify some things that are perhaps
    a bit ambiguous.)
  created: '2005-11-13 03:56:23'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Sorry for weighing into this thread late. I was in Japan when it was first
    posted, and not getting my regular Typophile fix.\r\n\r\nIn any case, it looks
    like the samples John asked for are posted now. Originally, Flash 8 was to include
    <a href=\"http://www.merl.com/projects/ADF-Saffron/\">Saffron</a> from Mitsubishi
    Electric Research Labs. I have no idea whether that's still true or not.\r\n\r\nTo
    my eyes, the \"optimized for readability\" looks like pretty much yet another
    ClearType clone. It's obvious that there's some hinting going on (the x-height
    takes a big jump in some sizes, a clear sign of hinting), but I'm not sure whether
    the hints are somehow extracted from the font or are autogenerated. Regarding
    the subpixelling, in default settings, there's more color fringing than its direct
    competitors, but at least that's tunable.\r\n\r\nTo be honest, I'm a little burned
    out on font rendering stuff. The market has pretty much decided that MS ClearType
    is the way to go, and everybody that needs to ship a font renderer had better
    either clone or license it. There doesn't seem to be that much room for alternatives.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-28 23:49:49'
- author:
    name: .
  body: But does it support kerning?
  created: '2005-11-29 03:06:49'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: With Static text, you can choose "Auto kern" which uses built-in metrics.
    Dynamic and Input text support tracking only, no kerning, auto or otherwise.
  created: '2005-11-29 03:21:44'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Thanks Mark. No reason for me to stop ignoring the existence of Flash. Fantastic!
  created: '2005-11-29 04:17:17'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Emigre has always excluded Flash from their EULA, which is both unwarranted
    and short-sighted and even silly (paranoid?). Flash isn't going anywhere. In fact,
    you can expect to see Flash take the place of Windows Media, Real and Quicktime,
    since Flash is both ubiquitous across platforms and because Flash video (FLV)
    requires no additional plug-ins on the users' end.\r\n\r\nJohn wrote:\r\n<em>Also,
    the rendering options provided to Flash creators indicate that Macromedia see
    rendering very much as a part of swf creation rather than swf display. The maker
    of a swf has control over what kind of rendering he wants to use and how he wants
    to tune it. The viewer of the swf has no control. Effectively, this is the opposite
    of most display technology.</em>\r\n\r\nJohn, Photoshop has allowed creators to
    tweak anti-aliasing for graphical text (where neither the browser or the OS can
    render it). To my understanding, the same applies to Flash, where Flash has to
    control the rendering, independent of the browser or the OS. The value of Photoshop's
    approach is that it gives very fine controls, something Flash has lacked until
    now, and something that Flash still must aspire to.\r\n\r\nI would love the Adobe
    Photoshop gang to educate the Flash crew on proper anti-aliasing, provided they
    don't try to turn SWF into PDF and bloat the usefulness out of the format."
  created: '2005-11-30 14:52:17'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Joe, our EULA allows for embedding in Flash - or any other application -
    so long as the greatest care is taken to make the embedded fonts unembeddable.\r\n\r\nI
    meant to imply that until Flash can render the kerning in a font, I have no need
    to use it. The mudTyper on vllg.com is a live typing tool which utilises kerning,
    unlike many other foundries' live testing tools which are Flash-based and kerning-free.
    The rest of our site is similarly Flash-free."
  created: '2005-11-30 15:01:58'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Chester, that's a very real gripe about Flash. The lack of kerning is a big
    weakness of Flash at the moment. I'm going to have to take another look at vllg.com.
    =)
  created: '2005-11-30 15:06:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Joe, our EULA allows for embedding in Flash - or any other application -
    so long as the greatest care is taken to make the embedded fonts unembeddable.\r\n\r\nChester,
    do you really mean <strong>any application</strong>? Our XBox SDK includes a tool
    that embeds TrueType fonts in Xbox games - the fonts are completely secure and
    un-embeddable from the game. I've always advised our developers that standard
    font licenses do not allow for anything other than \"document embedding\" and
    that additional rights should be acquired when they want to include a font to
    use in a game's UI. If the Vllg EULA provides these rights automatically that
    would be great news, and I'd love to point developers to your fonts and EULA as
    an exception to the rule.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-30 16:21:05'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Simon, in the Village and Thirstype EULA, the relevant clause states:\r\n\r\n\"You
    can make archival copies of the fonts for your own purposes. You will not distribute
    the fonts to people outside of your organization. A copy of the fonts may be sent
    as part of a file release to a prepress bureau, if absolutely necessary. The fonts
    can be embedded in other software files, such as Portable Document Format (PDF)
    or Flash files, but you will take all reasonable care to embed the fonts in such
    a way that they cannot be extracted from the files you create.\"\r\n\r\nWhich
    would allow embedding in a game UI. If the font can't be de-embedded from the
    game UI, then I personally see no difference between a typeface appearing in a
    game UI or a print ad or movie titles or a billboard or a TV commercial.\r\n\r\nPlease
    note that this applies to the Village and Thirstype EULAs, which I administer,
    and does not necessarily reflect the EULAs of the other members of vllg. As always,
    and in all cases, please read the EULA for each font, and address any questions
    or requests for clarification to the relevant party."
  created: '2005-11-30 17:12:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks, \r\n\r\nI think the difference is really that the font itself is
    being redistributed and is being used dynamically by the product - which is technologically
    different from being used statically in a bitmap image or in print. \r\n\r\nMost
    type designers and vendors make an exception to allow the redistribution of their
    fonts in \"document files\" (although some restrict commercial document files)
    but you've gone a step further in extending this exception to any reasonably secure
    \"software file\" which in my opinion adds a lot of value to your offerings. \r\n\r\nAlthough
    my question was somewhat provocative, it was serious too. If the Xbox team give
    me the opportunity I would like to include a reference to your license and site
    in the documentation. I'm talking to them about this issue on Friday.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2005-11-30 22:53:05'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Si, you're welcome, and thank you.\r\n\r\nI argue that font software embedded
    in other software - say a dynamic, interactive Flash module or a video game -
    isn't much different from other uses of type resulting in \"hard\" products.\r\n\r\nA
    timely example: The original Xbox logo was built from Rick Valicenti's Bronzo
    typeface, published by Thirstype. This does not mean that he gets a penny for
    every Xbox logo moulded in plastic or embroidered on a baseball cap.\r\n\r\nAnother
    Thirstype font, Traitor by Barry Deck, is used for the logo and identity of Comedy
    Central, as well as for on-air credits for programs. We do not receive residuals
    cheques monthly for this screen time.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that having one's
    fonts used in high-profile or wide-profile applications can contribute to further
    sales by people who have seen those applications.\r\n\r\nWith best, c"
  created: '2005-12-01 00:08:32'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: My feelings exactly.
  created: '2005-12-01 00:34:55'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Okay, I won't try to talk you out of it - it\u2019s your EULA, and if what
    you allow makes software and games cheaper to develop that\u2019s more money software
    and games companies can spend on items like foosball tables, free soda and nice
    sofas for their employees. ;-) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-01 17:32:39'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "To answer a much earlier question, yes, Flash 8 is using the Saffron rendering
    engine.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-12-02 06:25:35'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Press release on MTI''s license with MERL - http://www.monotypeimaging.com/aboutus/pr_display.aspx?year=2006&pr=269 '
  created: '2006-01-18 19:10:07'
- author:
    name: JBack
  body: "Hello everyone,\r\n\r\nThis comment is directed more at Mark Simonson, and
    I apologize if this is off topic of the thread.\r\n\r\nI am trying to use the
    Proxima Nova font for an application that I am developing for the PC, my fellow
    designer is on a mac, he purchased the opentype version of the font, but when
    italics are used the \"a\" character changes from a \"curved back\" to a \"straight
    back\" version. We ran a couple tests and the macintosh version of the font does
    the EXACT OPPOSITE which makes me think that the italic font maps are switched
    for the PC and Mac versions, is there any way to switch them or correct this problem
    so we can have a consistent \"a\" for the font?\r\n\r\nIn addition, is there any
    way to access the \"open-type -> sytlistic alternates\" option that is available
    in Photoshop and In-Design in Flash 8 using Actionscript or options?\r\n\r\nSorry
    for the long post, but just wanted to let Mark know about his font file."
  created: '2006-05-31 17:55:55'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Note to everyone: Hijacking an old thread on a discussion board is not the
    best way to get a customer service issue resolved. I didn't see this until a day
    after it was posted (and might not ever have seen it at all). My email address
    (mark@ms-studio.com) is on every page of <a href=\"http://www.ms-studio.com/\">my
    website</a>, and I respond promptly to any customer service questions.\r\n\r\n(For
    the record, Joel emailed me shortly after posting this and I am helping to resolve
    the problem he is having. Also, for the record, I have thoroughly tested the fonts
    and have never seen or heard of this particular problem before. I have not received
    a report of this from any other users, and the fonts have been on the market and
    in use for almost a year. It appears that Joel's colleague has somehow enabled
    \"Stylistic Alternates\" without realizing it, but we are still trying to get
    to the bottom of it.)\r\n\r\nAs for Flash, at this time, unfortunately, it is
    not possible to  access anything but the basic roman/latin character set since
    Flash  is not \"OpenType savvy\" yet. Now that Adobe owns Flash, this may (I hope)
    change in the next version."
  created: '2006-06-01 16:37:27'
date: '2005-11-11 22:51:40'
title: FlashType renderer

---
