---
author:
  name: mmilo
  picture: 111136
body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nThis is a logo I'm working on for my personal portfolio website.
  Any and all suggestions will be welcome.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n-mmilo"
comments:
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Interesting, I'm not sure it works, on first read I saw MWILO. Leaving that
    aside, the L seems too narrow; the O looks out of place, maybe you could try using
    a break like the A or B; the S needs some work, it appears to be tilting to the
    left. Does the M need that upright, because I think that is contributing to the
    MW reading problem. I think you can make it work but it will take a creative solution.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-11-12 09:21:40'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "Thanks for the reply Timd,\r\n\r\nYeah I noticed the tilt of the S after
    posting the image, that is definately something that I need to fix. I don't quite
    like the S to be honest I think I still need to work on the overall shape. As
    for the MM/MW thing, It's something that has been worrying me for a bit and I'm
    caught as a cross-roads as to how to deal with it. The original reason why I put
    in the upright stem on the M was to make sure it wasn't confused for a W once
    it was flipped, but I suppose that could have proved detrimental.\r\n\r\nI'll
    put up some more variations as soon as I'm able. In the meantime any other comments
    are appreciated.\r\n\r\n-mmilo"
  created: '2005-11-12 09:51:12'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: The stacked m's also throw off the balance of the design, making it very left-heavy;
    when I squint I just see a big blob on the left end. Seems to me to pull this
    off the lettering would need to be quite light (thin) to provide more white space
    to loosen things up and thereby lessen the weight of those interlocing m's.
  created: '2005-11-12 18:44:01'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "Ok, I have made a few variations on the logo, I implemented Tim's idea of
    removing the upright stem from the M and also following Jason's suggestion made
    the letters thinner to increase negative space. For now I am only working on the
    MMILO part because that seems to be the area that requires the most attention.\r\n\r\nI
    am also toying with the idea of small embellishments to suggest the idea of rotation.
    See what you think of these: http://www.mmilolabs.com/imgs/mmilo.gif\r\n\r\n-mmilo"
  children:
  - author:
      name: gpepin
      picture: 111115
    body: "I think the changes you've made so far are a vast improvement. However,
      I'm afraid this will still be read as \"mwilo\" AT BEST (because even that gets
      a bit lost), let alone \"mmilo\". I wish I could offer a suggestion to fix that,
      but alas, an upside down m is a w... no changing that!\r\nPlus, the arrows you've
      added seem to indicate moving backwards... probably not the message you want
      to send."
    created: '2005-11-13 12:07:03'
  created: '2005-11-13 04:07:55'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "Yea, Some may still read 'mwilo' or even 'mwlo'.. You could try to create
    a nice, matching 'mm' ligature.. <em>( Maybe something like the <a href=\"http://www.imille.it\"
    target=\"_blank\">IMILLE</a> logotype.? )</em>\r\n\r\nDav, <a href=\"http://www.formlos.net\"
    target=\"_blank\">formlos</a>"
  created: '2005-11-13 12:31:32'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'It is getting better. I think you will continue to improve it if you keep
    going. What if instead of mirroing each other with the m''s you let one drop down
    below baseline & aligned it with the one above in some interesting way? '
  created: '2005-11-14 00:35:47'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Sorry I looked at the revised versions only for the first time and I'm a designer
    not a layman and I saw it as m wilo. Its a cute idea but its just that, cute.
    It will never read the way you intended. This is especially true with a non-design
    audience. Go back to your paper and pencil and come up with a logo that is strong
    and reads.
  created: '2005-11-14 12:26:58'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: I agree that flipping the 'm' will never work as anything but a 'w'.
  created: '2005-11-14 13:32:28'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "I definately am starting to get the hint :) It's not a workable solution
    for the name the logo is trying to convey. The thing is that I wanted to avoid
    going down the obvious route of the mm ligature as used in the immile logo. But
    I still have a few ideas locked away in the vault. As soon as the bulk of my exams
    are over I will post up more samples.\r\n\r\nThanks for all the feedback thusfar,
    it's greatly appreciated.\r\n\r\n-mmilo"
  created: '2005-11-14 13:36:10'
- author:
    name: lherrou
    picture: 111141
  body: How about overlaying two "M"s as if with a drop shadow, only make them different
    enough that it can be recognized as two separate letters (different color/fill,
    variations on font, etc.)
  created: '2005-11-15 02:05:21'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "Ok well, here's two quick new ones, http://www.mmilolabs.com/imgs/mmilo2.gif\r\n\r\nI
    can't say I'm in love with either of them but there might be something there.
    I'm starting to feel that the font might not be the best, I'll try making something
    more condensed hopefully that will take some of the weight out of the M's.\r\n\r\n-mmilo"
  created: '2005-11-15 05:25:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "You know looking at those I started to wonder two things - why not just type
    it out\r\n\r\nmmilo\r\n\r\nI mean, eventally somebody has to type that to see
    your web site anyway so...\r\n\r\nAnd then I thought. What does all this fancyness
    mean anyway? What do you do? I haven't asked. I mean maybe something convoluted
    is right but without knowing what the logo is meant to mean/say to somebody it's
    a little silly to crit on the basis of 'oh thats clever' or 'it doesn't read'
    alone."
  created: '2005-11-15 07:32:02'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: On the new ones the second reads nilo. You might try a transparency effect
    where the m's are just tints of color and overlapping create another color like
    blue and yellow creating green. It could work for a web application.
  created: '2005-11-15 12:46:03'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "i think the first idea with the two m's is good, but the implmentation needs
    some work. The name \xABmmilo:labs\xBB has so much signifcance to it, it shouldn't
    be tampered with. I would have left the name quite straight, and instead treat
    the \xABfolded\xBB m's as a separate logo. it has many nice connotations: folded
    hands, intertwining, holdding hands etc. as it is now, the logo collapses under
    the wheight of too many good ideas. how necessary is the ':'? (don't know what
    ':' is called in english) this kind of punctuation is, to me, a bit outdated. "
  created: '2005-11-15 17:11:04'
- author:
    name: g_u_y_t
  body: "i think the double m's can be chg with a simple math'\r\nand the m will be
    in square like m\xAA( and it got some\r\nreference to the lab."
  created: '2005-11-15 19:28:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I see. So you did have a reason! \r\n\r\nI do wonder if the simple mmilo
    isn't cool enough. It isn't very experimental looking but since your work will
    be maybe thats a good contrast.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand 'milo labs' sounds cool
    too. Also you could have mmmmmmilo. Which would be playful. But it would make
    the URL for the site tough."
  created: '2005-11-15 22:11:26'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "Apologies for my absence, it's been a busy coupla weeks. I've had a bit of
    time to try a few things out and I thought I'd put this up and see what you think.
    It's radically different from the previous stuff, but I'm liking the way it punches
    out. See what you guys think.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mmilo3.gif]\r\n\r\nI
    want to add a small icon, perhaps some cogs or beaker or something laboratory
    like, I'll post some more examples a little later on.\r\n\r\n-mmilo"
  created: '2005-11-28 12:36:53'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Well, it has a much different personality, but it's much more straightforward.
    \r\n\r\nI admit, I miss the letterforms you were using in the first one. They
    were more memorable. You've lost the experimental feel that made a conceptual
    link to 'labs'. However, it all depends on your needs and the image you're pushing.
    I think an icon will make this direction more memorable."
  created: '2005-11-28 16:44:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The old direction was more playful but also more serious feeling in that
    it was tapping into reductive modernism. The new direction does pop but I think
    it relies on color too much. Whatever you make I want to encourage you to make
    sure it works in B&W first and then think about color. I think this one feels
    like SF, CA in the the early 90's just because I associate the face with that
    time. BTW - what about just scanning a ballpoint pen or pencil sketch? Or some
    other one-off method. Whipped cream?\r\n\r\nDoing something like that would reflect
    an experimental nature more than a formal logo."
  created: '2005-11-28 21:57:56'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: The new version is straignt forward and says clear communication to me. Its
    not arty but I think thats a good point, designers need to decide weither they
    are artists (like painters) or communicators. With a conserative logo you take
    emphsis off the logo and focus the content on the information at your web site.
  created: '2005-11-28 22:05:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "But I think that maybe he does want to be arty & experimental. With an emphasis
    on process rather than 'information'. But I could be wrong.\r\n\r\nMateja?"
  created: '2005-11-28 22:40:42'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "You guys are both right to a degree, I like Dan's thoughts about the logo
    communicating a clear message but Eben is 100% correct that the message is supposed
    to be arty & experimental.\r\n\r\nHerein lies the problem, I'm trying to create
    a logo that conveys form over function and yet still remains functional. As much
    as I liked the interlocking M's there's not much point when noone will understand
    what the logo is sayng. That's why I'm trying out different avenues to find what
    will strike the best balance.\r\n\r\nIf you guys have any thoughts, or can think
    of any logos that fit in with what I'm trying to accomplish let me know :)\r\n\r\nAgain
    thanks for the keen interest guys, I will most definately keep working on this,
    I'm having a blast doing this with your help.\r\n\r\n-mmilo"
  created: '2005-11-29 01:59:55'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "Since a lot of you seem to like the the way the previous logo looked, I've
    made a few variations of it. I got inspired by the old Warner Bros logo. I can't
    say I'm thrilled with the way they look but they're not hideous either.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mmilolabs.com/imgs/mmilo4.gif\r\n\r\n-mmilo"
  created: '2005-11-29 03:28:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Those are pretty cool. I don't think they quite read but maybe they read
    enough.\r\n\r\nI like the 2nd one best. There is something wonky about that s.
    It might need tweaking."
  created: '2005-11-29 04:11:29'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: Yeah there's plenty wonky about that S. I made it from scratch and S's in
    general are a pain in the posterior for me to make. I'll keep tweaking it thought
    to see if I can fix it up, but tell me what do you think of those as compared
    to the little red and black number?
  created: '2005-11-29 04:21:42'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I'm glad you brought back the initial look. I think they're more interesting
    than the red&black, which seems to have less personality (though I don't know
    you, so who's to say the other isn't more 'you'?).\r\n\r\nThe number of 'legs'
    is disorienting. My eye has a hard time resolving them into anything, and as a
    result I read them as ornamentation of a sort, like a visual foil for the 'i'
    so I read it as 'ilo:labs' now.\r\n\r\nI prefer the second one because you have
    more forms to work with. I'd suggest making each 'm' distinct and using that first
    leg with the sharp corner twice, once for each 'm'. Also, the light grey might
    be a bit too light, depending on how much control you have over its use."
  created: '2005-11-29 16:34:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Mateja, this has come a long way. I'm really enjoying how abstract it has
    become. Mind you, it isn't readable, but the direction is much stronger. \r\n\r\nThe
    middle version of the latest upload. What if you used the first stroke on the
    m again on the last? Would that help imply the lettershape more? Would it help
    separate the m from the i?"
  created: '2005-11-29 17:01:52'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I agree with Chris, if you could sort out the m so it is still abstract enough
    to please yourself but legibable enough to read as an m,  I think you would have
    a really nice logo! \r\n That & fix that s! I am looking foreward to the next
    iteration. BTW - maybe you should work in just b/w and leave the grey & color
    to later on. \r\n\r\nWhat if gave the m a sort of Lead-in on the left side, almost
    like a serif in the text m. Or you could take your 'a' make a copy, flip it horizontally
    & have a kind of ram's head m that uses the roundness of the other letters again.
    Actually I made some m's just for fun. If you want I will post them for you. Really
    there are a ton of creative ways to make your m."
  created: '2005-11-29 17:37:31'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "Eben I liked your ram's head idea so much that I got a little carried away
    with it. Here's a little something whacky i knocked up just for a bit of fun.
    See if you guys like it :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mmilo5.gif]\r\n\r\n-mmilo"
  created: '2005-11-30 08:25:25'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I think the verticals at the start of the logo are distracting, you could
    make a ligature of the mm (possibly sharing the last and first vertical of each
    m). The ram's heads are an interesting approach although it is probably too far
    round, the il ligature, for example, the dot of the i is not centred on the vertical.
    That s is looking good I wonder if a sharper change of direction at the top might
    be necessary, I don't see the point of not having the same terminal on the l of
    labs as most of the other characters. Definitely worth persisting with this look.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-11-30 10:14:31'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "Well since you liked it so much timd I worked on it a little more as per
    your suggestions, et voila....\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mmilo6.gif]\r\n\r\nLet's
    see what the reast of the guys and gals think. :)\r\n\r\n-mmilo"
  created: '2005-11-30 12:45:30'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: I think that this is heading in a good direction....the readability is definitely
    improving and I like the il lig you have going!
  created: '2005-12-01 01:58:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am still not satisfied with the m and I think you have too much sugar in
    the cake - too many curly things. I like the il bit the l in labs doesn't need
    that & the b does not either.\r\n\r\nDid you actually try the m I was talking
    about?  I'll show you mine if you want. The m you have is good too but it doesn't
    read as two 'm's. Just as a wild m with one too many bumps. But maybe reading
    the logo it isn't as important to you as it would be to me...\r\n\r\nIt is getting
    better & better."
  created: '2005-12-01 03:26:00'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "Ok here are a bunch of slight variations. I'm actually starting to like the
    overall look and I'm definately sure that the final design is going to be very
    close to this, just a matter of fine tunining some of the details. See which one
    of these tickles your fancy.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mmilolabs.com/imgs/mmilo7.gif\r\n\r\n-mmilo"
  created: '2005-12-01 09:48:31'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I like 5 or 6 of the current generation. Try making a dot over the i and make
    the curved l come to the dot but not connect. I don't like the s in labs it looks
    like its falling over and is disconnected with all the other vertical characters.
  created: '2005-12-01 13:14:56'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "1a is my favourite, I would recommend you have a look at the ram's heads
    where they join to the vertical, it seems a bit abrupt, especially on the inside
    of the curve, and lower the colon to centre on the x-height.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-12-01 14:43:24'
- author:
    name: jac
    picture: 109567
  body: "\r\nJust quick interjection\r\n\r\nIf you were to mirror the m's vertically
    and rotate them 90degree's the reflected m would look less like a w in a serifed
    face. Just a thought to play with.\r\n\r\n-Jac\r\npronounced by saying 'Jake'
    without conjuring imagery of lumberjacks or mans best friend."
  created: '2005-12-13 02:44:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "i like 6a best. it's getting quite good.\r\n\r\ni think the ascenders on
    the l and b might be taller - not a lot but a little."
  created: '2005-12-13 04:42:44'
- author:
    name: WhitePepper
    picture: 111069
  body: 'I''m with Eben Sorkin: 6a or 6b for me. Just the one ligature for the ''il''
    combo works well and the straight edged corner for the tail of the l/top of the
    i reads better i.e more like an ''i'' and an ''l'' rather than an ''i'' and a''p''.
    looking good - you''ve come a long way!'
  created: '2005-12-14 10:25:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I still want to show you that silly rams head m I made. You haven't shown
    it to us in your experiments so far & who knows - you might like it. \r\n\r\nMateja,
    do you mind if I post it?"
  created: '2005-12-14 11:07:21'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "sorry for the extended haitus, I have been pretty busy working on a couple
    of different sites and theres stil a fair bit on my plate at the moment. If anyone
    would like to take a gander here is a link for a site I just finished that's still
    sitting on my test bed http://www.mmilolabs.com/gillwillcox/ (maybe some typographical
    suggestions wouldn't go astray but I should save elaborate discussion for another
    post)\r\n\r\nAs for you posting your example here Eben, you don't even need to
    ask buddy, post away. speaking of the logo, I think most likely I'll end up sticking
    to 6A. I like the extra flourish on the \"m\" in the 1-4 series but I feel that
    it makes the design look a little too \"girly\" and limits design potential (no
    offense to the ladies out there :P).\r\n\r\n-mmilo"
  created: '2005-12-22 16:19:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "here ya go.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mmilo.gif]"
  created: '2005-12-22 22:53:00'
- author:
    name: mmilo
    picture: 111136
  body: "Good Point. MMILO is an abbreviation of my full name. As for the kind of
    work I intend to put up on the site, it's pretty varied. I'm mainly interested
    in web design and vector based illustration, but I dabble in Flash programming,
    typography, conceptual illustration and digital painting. That's why there is
    a \"labs\" suffixed on to the name because the site is mainly about me experimenting
    with different ideas.\r\n\r\nThe website has three goals:\r\n1. Outlet for general
    experimentation\r\n2. Showcasing some work\r\n3. Putting up a portfolio so I can
    hopefully find some sort of employment after my degree is completed.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sorry I was vague about what I was trying to accomplish, but I hope I have given
    enough of a back story now for people to get a better idea of what the concept
    behind the logo is.\r\n\r\n-mmilo"
  created: '2007-12-03 00:32:32'
date: '2005-11-12 07:44:25'
files:
- filename: mmilolabs_1.gif
  uri: public://old-images/mmilolabs_1.gif
node_type: forum
title: personal logo critique request

---
