---
author:
  name: dave bailey
  picture: 128124
body: "I understand that this is an art in itself, but as a budding/young designer
  in love with type I would like to understand this rather important subject. I comprehend
  styles of type and what serif/sans/script evoke but how does one go about choosing
  a type face for body copy? My curiosity makes me want to try new faces but I'm not
  sure where to go. I have access to a studio font library at school of about 1000
  faces so I will be able to experiment without having to buy them just for this purpose.\r\n\r\nWhat
  I'm looking for is your opinions/experience in this subject matter. Maybe this is
  too broad of a question, but I think it's worth a shot asking anyways! I'm just
  looking to expand my knowledge and this is the best place I could think of to ask
  this.\r\n\r\n-Dave"
comments:
- author:
    name: Guerella
    picture: 110740
  body: "I found this interesting.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bamagazine.com/ne7raPLand.asp"
  created: '2005-11-15 21:26:45'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'The answer is right here:  I will be able to experiment...'
  created: '2005-11-15 21:35:53'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Awesome, this and any kind of personal opinion is exactly what I was looking
    for. I'm gonna read this now!\r\n\r\nEdit: I figured that experiementation would
    play a role, David. This is an acceptable solution for me, but I'm just wondering
    what kind of habits or process of elimination might be necessary. Surely one can't
    just click through all their text faces for each project saying 'hmm is this right?'
    there's got to be a more intelligent way of choosing! Maybe I need to research
    typefaces more?"
  created: '2005-11-15 21:36:06'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Try and match the text to the type. I was looking at a book my wife worked
    on, designed by a well known book designer. The text was about Anselm Kiefer.
    The art deals with several mystical systems including the Sefer Hechaloth, alchemy,
    etc. Keifer uses lead in his works, and references alchemy often. The designer
    chose Fournier, a digital face based on the types of Pierre Simon Fournier. Fournier,
    as it turns out, was also an alchemist.\r\n\r\nThe best approach is to read the
    text, and find good type that has some synergy with the text. I often find by
    approaching a book design this way, I become convinced that there is only one
    face to set the text in. With this decision made, the page and text block geometry
    will flow based on the needs of the type.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-15 21:40:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>but how does one go about choosing a type face for body copy?</em>\r\n\r\nyou
    really should get a copy of [[Elements of Typographic Style|The Elements of Typographic
    Style]] by [[Robert Bringhurst|Bringhurst]]. It really is the typographer's bible
    (IMHO). I think I need to re-read it one of these days soon..."
  created: '2005-11-15 21:54:21'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "See that:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.will-harris.com/esperfonto/"
  created: '2005-11-15 21:57:29'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Thanks Paul, I'll add this to my xmas wish list along with the Logo Font
    & Lettering Bible and the 2nd edition of John Langdon's Wordplay. I don't have
    any material wants this year, but a jump start to my design library would be a
    good idea!\r\n\r\nEdit: Good link, David. Thanks!"
  created: '2005-11-15 21:58:40'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "My solution to not knowing how to choose: typeset everything: directions,
    lists, letters, notes, signs, stories, cards, etc. Use faces you know of, but
    aren't familiar with, particularly the text faces. Use all of the type you have
    as much as you can.\r\n\r\nSeeing fonts in use, particularly when there's no pressure
    will help you familiarize yourself with the quirks and kinks of fonts which may
    all 'look the same' in the font specimen books or FontExplorer. It's helped me
    get a general sense of what to expect from different historical classes and cuts
    without the stress of messing up a client job."
  created: '2005-11-15 22:14:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I agree with Chris, observing those who have gone before -- those whom we
    know to know what they are doing -- is a great way to learn.
  created: '2005-11-15 22:58:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That Before and After thing has come up before on Typophile, and was roundly
    and justifiably hacked to shreds.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nBringhurst's first point:
    \"Typography exisits to honor content\".\r\nReading the text, parallels will emerge
    between what the writer is saying, and similar thoughts that have been expressed
    by typographers and type designers in their medium.\r\nIn advertising, there is
    often strategy provided for the art director concerning tone and manner, which
    will suggest particular typographic treatments.\r\nAnd of course, you can always
    swipe what's hot (and put a personal spin on it)."
  created: '2005-11-15 23:17:52'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "From a strictly personal view, and it's nothing I've ever taught about, I
    am a strong proponent/believer in \"looking, seeing and experimenting.\"\r\n\r\nIt's
    one thing to start as a novice designer and trying to arrive at a balance of conventional
    text with heads. To some degree there is a lot of latitude before you start going
    over the deep end. Following sound advice will keep you and your work safe, since
    after all, most of us needed to earn a living right off the bat.\r\n\r\nWhile
    you are still in school or starting out at your first design job, never lose an
    opportunity to look closely at anything that catches your eye. Stop and examine
    what might be unique, different, engaging or even plain stupid about the piece.
    It may seem like nothing at first, but after a while your eye will start discerning
    things at play that seemed invisible before.\r\n\r\nLook at old stuff, new stuff,
    books printed with metal type, books and magazines printed during the 60s to mid
    80s which most likely would have been set on phototypesetting equipment.\r\n\r\nStart
    carrying around a lupe (or small magnifier) and don't be afraid to put your nose
    literally on the page. Hold stuff at arms length upside down and squint to break
    text down into blocks of gray. Eventually you'll start \"seeing\" type at many
    levels; as texture, its color, fluidness and rhythm or a staccato and fragmented
    look. \r\n\r\nCombinations of characters in a word or line might seem too heavy
    or too light or the overall block of text though evenly spaced may seem too weak
    or too strong in juxtaposition to the rest of the design. By training your eye
    and improving your typographic awareness, you can begin to make type determinations
    for yourself. You will \"feel it\" if the page looks off or if the tone of the
    type contradicts the tone of the content.\r\n\r\nOnce you can make these determinations
    for yourself, you can (if you want) truly start experimenting, because now if
    something doesn't work, you have a better sense of what to do. It's like being
    a composer or a chef, because great typography is more soul than science.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-16 02:28:17'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Awesome and very sensible reply Norbert! Thanks!
  created: '2005-11-16 03:14:40'
- author:
    name: gordon
  body: 'i guess each of us have our own ideas of how it works. i tought of sharing
    a little too. :D im no veteran designer but for me its a combination of maths,
    intuition, rationality & not forgetting lots of fun. There are a set of rules
    that i follow strictly at times (eg, grid) but at the same times, when a certain
    assingment that requires a "customised procedure", i wouldn''t hesitate to use
    quirky fonts for a cooporate typeface. so i guess thats pretty much pending on
    yourself and of course the assingment itself. thats just my opinion. :) '
  created: '2005-11-17 03:57:09'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: I look a lot at type specimen sheets. If they're not available take a few
    typefaces and set some body copy and print it out, different point sizes, line
    lengths, leading, etc. Often a typeface looks good in a certain situation, buy
    may not work for your particular project. Also, one thing I'm bad about, is relying
    on my screen. Bad idea. You really do need to have a high-res laser printer to
    get an accurate idea of how the type will look on a finished piece. Also, get
    familiar with a handful of typefaces for body copy, and stick with them for a
    while. You can always be more creative with your headings, subheads and other
    graphics, but body copy is for reading. There's nothing worse than a bad font
    for body copy (well maybe some things are worse...)
  created: '2005-11-17 14:05:32'
- author:
    name: csr
    picture: 109870
  body: "I find that my love for type translates into me finding myself reading about
    type more often. Not just skimming forums or looking at annuals, but reading about
    the history of type, the lives of type designers...the \"zeitgeist\" i suppose.\r\nIt
    takes months, years, but eventually you'll find that the choice of typefaces will
    stem as much from intuition as from careful research. I'm not trying to make a
    blanket statement here; this says nothing about printing/media/cost restrictions,
    etc. \r\nIn a way its about personal taste, too. If you like Goudy or Gill, and
    its appropriate...why not?"
  created: '2005-11-17 16:35:53'
- author:
    name: jason
    picture: 109852
  body: "I'm with Paul, anyone relatively new to typography and eager to learn needs
    to have a copy of Bringhurst's <em>Elements...</em> I often say about that book
    that I wish I'd never read it, so that I could read it again for the first time.
    It single-handedly exploded my interest in typography. And once you're done with
    that book, simply hit the bibliography at the back as a guide to other books to
    take a look at.\r\n\r\nThe thing with Brighurst is that he does a very good job
    of outlining what to look for in a font; not just if you \"like\" it, but what
    a good font needs to have in its arsenal.\r\n\r\nI have a small handful of fonts
    that I rely on for body copy, and each was selected first and foremost on what
    it has in its toolbox. To me it starts with OpenType. If I'm going to invest in
    a body font, I want something with an extensive glyph palette, well drawn diacritics,
    full Greek and Cyrillic support, small caps, all 4 number sets, a healthy selection
    of ligatures, all the basic math symbols, true fractions, superiors, inferiors,
    maybe some useful ornaments, etc. To investigate this stuff, you'll need to dig
    up full type specimens of the font (usually a PDF that has the entire glyph palette
    as well as some sample settings at various sizes, etc.). My point is it doesn't
    do you any good to choose a font you \"like\" only to discover it's missing a
    pile of glyphs you need. Better to compile a list of fonts that have what you
    need, then use that list to determine which will best serve the book you're setting.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    the hardest part about choosing a body font is getting out of the way. Not \"What
    font should I set the book in?\", but \"What font does the book want to be set
    in?\" And to answer that question you need to know something about the history
    of type and typography (Bringhurst) and something about the book you're setting
    (read it)."
  created: '2005-11-17 19:43:30'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I\u2019ll add this to my xmas wish list along with...</em>\r\n\r\ni'd
    recommend putting the whole [[triumvirate]] on that list. ;^D"
  created: '2005-11-17 19:57:32'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Two interesting articles for download -- after purchase -- on Amazon:\r\n\r\nThe
    rhetoric of typography: The persona of typeface and text. (Applied Research).
    : An article from: Technical Communication -- Eva R. Brumberger\r\n\r\nThe rhetoric
    of typography: The awareness and impact of typeface appropriateness. (Applied
    Research). : An article from: Technical Communication -- Eva R. Brumberger\r\nFormat:
    HTML "
  children:
  - author:
      name: dtw
      picture: 110803
    body: "Two tangential comments: (a) I'd agree with Jason on OpenType: if the possibility
      is there for a nice extensive character set, that's what you want your font
      to have in this day and age. So annoying to suddenly find you've got to swap
      out to some other font just to set a section mark or a barred-l. (btw, am involved
      in a difference of opinion with out typesetters over their inability to set
      a \xA3 in Bliss because \"the pound symbol was not available in the bliss font\"...
      eh? what kind of version are they using?!?)\r\n(b) Someone mentioned the 2nd
      edn. of John Langdon's \"Wordplay\". I recently bought a copy of this: is it
      just me, or are half the pictures poorly reproduced (like the bitmap header
      of an EPS or something?) And random bold characters littered through the text?
      The author must be livid.\r\n\r\n\r\n-----------------\r\nEver since I chose
      to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
    created: '2005-11-18 15:47:02'
  created: '2005-11-17 20:58:09'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "I'll be sure to upate my collection wishlist. This has been very informative
    and it looks as if I'll have some good reading ahead of me. Maybe I should read
    up on Open Type too, as I sort of have an idea of what it is but no solid knowledge.\r\n\r\nDTW:
    I mentioned this, just because he's my professor and I work closely with him on
    many of his commissioned ambigrams. I hope the print quality is not as shoddy
    as you seem to be saying. :("
  created: '2005-11-18 18:38:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Two interesting articles for download\"\r\n\r\nTiff,\r\nThanks for the
    tip. I just bought them from Amazon.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-19 02:05:15'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "For those who have not yet experienced the amazing beauty of a simple block
    of justified text -- (even as a low-res pixelated mediocre scanned image).\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rogers_Odyssey.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>The
    Odyssey of Homer</em>, 1932.\r\nBruce Rogers (1870-1957), book designer.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-19 04:02:26'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "<cite>\"you really should get a copy of The Elements of Typographic Style
    by Bringhurst. It really is the typographer\u2019s bible (IMHO). I think I need
    to re-read it one of these days soon\u2026\"\r\n\r\nPaul d hunt</cite>\r\n\r\nIt
    is as well in Hermann Zapf's opinion so I can't either disagree ;)\r\n\r\n<cite>\"I
    whish to see this book become th Typographers' Byble.\"\r\nHermann Zapf</cite>\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-11-19 05:24:19'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Ok, I have not really read well the posts in this thread but anyway this
    link may help you:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.textism.com/textfaces/\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-11-19 05:41:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Norbert,\r\nThat is fabulous composition! The evenness of color is amazing
    and only ONE hyphen!\r\nThat really was an odyssey!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-20 14:05:24'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Hector: Another interesting read! Thanks!\r\n\r\n<cite>Norbert,\r\nThat is
    fabulous composition! The evenness of color is amazing and only ONE hyphen!\r\nThat
    really was an odyssey!\r\nChrisL</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed!"
  created: '2005-11-20 15:45:46'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I have never seen before a book made by Bruce Rogers and now I see why is
    his work so praised.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-11-21 03:15:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not bad, Bruce, but there are a few things we'd do differently today:\r\n\r\n1.
    No double spacing before capitals\r\n2. Kern Y-e\r\n3. No space before colon and
    semi-colon\r\n4. Final period could hang a bit -- to balance the hanging serif
    on the initial.\r\n\r\nLetterpress Centaur was a good choice for a fine edition
    of a classic (particularly if you had designed it yourself), with big text size,
    a wide measure, and plenty of leading -- it makes it look like the typeface has
    expansive extenders, rather than a tiny x-height. "
  created: '2005-11-21 05:17:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nick, I agree with you about the limitations on Centaur--it needs large size
    and letter press to look great. But I wonder about the extra space before sentences
    (not capitals generally). Might this not add some pleasant openness to the page,
    and serve as a better marker for sentences? \r\n\r\nAnd am I right in thinking
    that it is still standard in French typography to have extra space before sentences
    and before colons and semicolons? Or is this just in the French Microsoft Word?"
  created: '2005-11-21 11:35:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "William, I agree about the extra space.\r\nThere was a thread on this, which
    advanced several theories as to why extra sentence space might be useful. But
    I don't think it was mentioned that it might have anything to do with the size
    of the capitals, which seems to be pertinent here.\r\n\r\nEven in English, some
    typographers hair-space their colons (part of Jason's standards, I seem to recall).
    And it's also something that type designers can build into a font, by giving colons
    a generous left sidebearing. \r\n\r\nI'm not surprised the annoyingly prescriptive
    Word adds colon space in French."
  created: '2005-11-21 17:45:48'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<cite>1. No double spacing before capitals\r\n2. Kern Y-e\r\n3. No space
    before colon and semi-colon\r\n4. Final period could hang a bit \u2014 to balance
    the hanging serif on the initial.</cite>\r\n\r\nI was taught all of these methods
    in my recent Typography classes. So I'd have to agree."
  created: '2005-11-21 17:49:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"For those who have not yet experienced the amazing beauty of... \"\r\n\r\n....65
    characters across, Exactly!"
  created: '2005-11-21 18:28:56'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Well, a full word space before colon/semicolon might\r\nbe French habit.
    But a little space before them (and \r\nbefore exclamation & question as well
    as some other \r\npunctuation marks) was common in Germany, GB, USA \r\n(I have
    no actual proofs for other countries) too!\r\n\r\nIf this was forgotten because
    it troubled the average\r\ntypewriter and text editor, typographers should \r\nknow
    better. \r\n\r\nI have some samples, some of them not that old, in \r\nwww.kltf.de/downloads/SpacingIssues-kltf.pdf\r\n\r\nMy
    assumption is that while especially in GB and\r\nUSA (and Germany) the spaces
    were abandoned\r\nentirely, in France they were exaggerated -- which\r\nwere the
    two possibilities which technology allowed. \r\nIt may be an interesting subject
    for a more careful \r\nstudy.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2005-11-21 19:31:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I'd also be interested to know more about the history of the spacing of punctuation,
    if anyone out there can enlighten me. \r\n\r\nLooking at the samples in Harry
    Carter's 'A View of Early Typography', I  see early examples with spaces before
    the period and comma also. The commas, colons and semicolens seem equally spaced
    on either side. Some also have the periods equally spaced, and others with greater
    than a word space before sentences. \r\n\r\nI have the book that revived Caslon,
    Mrs. Willoughby's Diary, and it affects earlies styles. It has hair or thin spaces
    before the colon and semicolon, but not the comma and period. It has greater than
    a word space before sentences. \r\n\r\nFor me the question of whether to have
    a hair space before the colon and semicolon is just a matter of convention--I
    don't see a big advantage in it. \r\n\r\nBut I find the extra space before sentences
    (but not a double space, as in typewriter styles) kind of nice as a marker for
    the sentences and putting a little air in the text block. Am I nuts to think of
    making the period with extra space to the right, so that sentences will have more
    space after them? Then for initials like K.D. Lang I could maybe have some contextual
    substitution of a cap followed by a period that would have less space.\r\n\r\nDoes
    this make any sense to you all? Or just a bad idea?   \r\n\r\nedit: Just thought
    of another way to do this. A period followed by two spaces would be contextually
    substituted by a period followed by a word space plus a hair space, or such. Will
    this work? It would give people an option of the greater inter-sentence space,
    without imposing it. "
  created: '2005-11-22 15:47:15'
- author:
    name: puffinry
  body: "&gt;&nbsp;<em>I\u2019d also be interested to know more about the history
    of the spacing of punctuation</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know much about this, but I
    believe that (in Britain) the post-war move towards using less space around punctuation
    marks was strongly influenced by Jan Tchischold during his reign at Penguin. He
    imposed company-wide printing standards that mandated what is nowadays the usual
    punctuation spacing, supplanting the printers' house styles (which typically added
    space around colons, and extra space between sentences).\r\n\r\nI think I learnt
    this from Ruari McLean's book <em>Jan Tschichold: A Life in Typography</em>.\r\n(<a
    href=\"http://www.penguincollectorssociety.org/pubs.htm#typo\">This book</a> also
    looks potentially relevant, but I haven't read it.)"
  created: '2005-11-22 19:23:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I have the Tschichold biography, and just checked the 'Penguin Composition
    Rules', p. 80. \r\n\r\nIn fact he says in them: \"If this can be done on the keyboard,
    put thin spaces before question marks, exclamation marks, colons, and semicolons.\"\r\n\r\nSo
    the change must come after his reign at Penguin. "
  created: '2005-11-22 19:50:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"So the change must come after his reign at Penguin.\" or after Batman :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-22 22:57:42'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "\"I have the Tschichold biography, and just checked the \u2018Penguin Composition
    Rules\u2019, p. 80.\"\r\n\r\nYes. What Tschichold was against was too much space
    following a full stop.  ;-)\r\n\r\n\"... I see early examples with spaces before
    the period and comma also. The commas, colons and semicolens seem equally spaced
    on either side. Some also have the periods equally spaced, and others with greater
    than a word space before sentences.\"\r\n\r\nI have the Fedra booklet before me
    right now and see that Peter Bilak's typefaces do exactly this -- i.e. space ,
    ; . : generously. And it looks pretty good, especially in the serif. The spaced
    period and comma are less obtrusive than I would have imagined.\r\n\r\n\"Just
    thought of another way to do this. A period followed by two spaces would be contextually
    substituted by a period followed by a word space plus a hair space, or such.\"\r\n\r\n(You
    could create an alternate space and substitute by this if space is preceded by
    a period. As feature, either calt, or if this is reserved for other things, one
    of the a Stylistic Set features.)\r\n\r\nIn the long run however, these spacing
    issues should be dealt with on application level, not font level. Spacing is part
    of the typographer's job, and only on the level of the application he could easily
    create some settings which will apply to every font in use."
  created: '2005-11-23 07:10:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">You could create an alternate space and substitute by this if space is preceded
    by a period. \r\n\r\nThe problem with this approach is that it will space abbreviations
    and initials with extra space in the middle of a sentence: \"J. Carter Brown and
    Time Inc. have sued the newspaper.\" So there needs to be a way to insert the
    extra space in a discressionary way. Checking, I see there are keyboard shortcuts
    in InDesign--and I assume Quark--for this,so it seems that there is no point in
    putting this into a font.  "
  created: '2005-11-23 15:20:37'
- author:
    name: puffinry
  body: "&gt;&nbsp;<em>In fact he says in them: \u201CIf this can be done on the keyboard,
    put thin spaces before question marks, exclamation marks, colons, and semicolons.\u201D\r\n</em>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the correction.\r\n\r\nBut surely it is still plausible to see <em>Penguin
    Composition Rules</em> as an important step \u2013 even the most important step
    \u2013 on the road to the spacing we see today?\r\nI can only find one pre-Tschichold
    penguin in my bookcase: the 1940 printing of <em>Romeo and Juliet</em>. In that,
    there's a full word space before every colon and question mark, and an entire
    <em>em</em> after a question mark. Using a thin space before and a word space
    after is very restrained indeed, by comparison.\r\n\r\n(The way you tell TeX not
    to put extra space after a full stop is to issue the command  <code>\\frenchspacing</code>.
    That seems especially bizarre in light of the suggestion that the extra space
    is <em>more</em> prevalent in France.)"
  created: '2005-11-24 10:34:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "{Caveat: I've read almost none of this thread. Sorry.}\r\n\r\nDavid, what
    I would point out is this: ideally, you first need to understand how people read;
    not perfectly, but understand it as much as you can. This will help you grasp
    for example what vertical proportions are better for what tasks. That said, it's
    entirely possible to fake it without grasping much about readability at all, thanks
    to the great (if necessarily regressive) precendent that's been established. In
    fact most people take the faking route.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-02 20:27:59'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>(b) Someone mentioned the 2nd edn. of John Langdon\u2019s \u201CWordplay\u201D.
    I recently bought a copy of this: is it just me, or are half the pictures poorly
    reproduced (like the bitmap header of an EPS or something?) And random bold characters
    littered through the text? The author must be livid.</em>\r\n\r\nI saw a copy
    of this at the weekend and it is shocking that the proofs were signed off, it
    certainly looks like screen representations were used for some of the pictures.
    Heads should roll or at least be rotated 180\xBA.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-12-05 14:51:35'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<cite>I saw a copy of this at the weekend and it is shocking that the proofs
    were signed off, it certainly looks like screen representations were used for
    some of the pictures. Heads should roll or at least be rotated 180\xBA.\r\nTim</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm
    guessing that this is only the book released in England. Both complaints I've
    heard have been located there, I know John published two versions...it's very
    likely that he didn't have direct contact or printed samples of the book that
    was printed over seas. I'll have to report back in once I see the US version."
  created: '2005-12-06 00:48:39'
date: '2005-11-15 21:14:34'
node_type: forum
title: The Art of The Correct Body Copy Typeface Choice

---
