---
author:
  name: irf2k
body: "ok, i recently downloaded the fontlab demo, but it didn't come with any help
  files AT ALL. I mean it doesn't even explain how the program works (i guess im used
  to programs like Maya and those in the Macromedia studio that teach you the basics).
  \r\n1. So, my first question is, does the actual product come with support?\r\n\r\nand
  my second would be \r\n2. Is there some tutorial on the web where I can master the
  basics? I don't need to know much about design, since I already have bitmaps of
  the characters I want to create. I just need to know how to add in some of the features
  that go with an arabic font such as...\r\n\r\n1. Glyph Variants: In arabic, each
  letter has three different forms depending on its position in the word (initial,
  medial, final), as well as a fourth \"isolated\" form. I need to know how to add
  in these forms.\r\n\r\n2. I need to be able to add Diacritic Marks (vowels/markings
  that go above each letter)\r\n\r\n3. I need to be able to add ligatures, a combination
  of glyphs to form one glyph (some letters, when placed next to others, form one
  character in Arabic).\r\n\r\nI know that features 1 and 3 are possible, especially
  since they exist in Times New Roman (in the arabic part, as listed in the character
  map).\r\nI also know that I have to use OTLS (Open Type Library Services) to Shape
  and Position the glyphs. But what I need to know is how to do this with FONTLAB
  OR ANY OTHER FONT PROGRAM.\r\nSo, if anyone knows of any tutorials which explain
  this, or programs that come with support explaining this, I would appreciate it
  if they could let me know about it.\r\nOh, and if you find it odd that I'm just
  starting to create fonts and yet I already can use big words like Open Type Font
  Library, I just stole that from here: http://www.microsoft.com/typography/OpenType%20Dev/arabic/shaping.mspx.\r\nANY
  HELP would be appreciated.\r\nThanks"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Going from zero to making a full feature Arabic font is going to be hard.
    I''d be inclined to start by reading as much as you can on OpenType and then start
    making some small test fonts, Latin based, in FontLab and in VOLT so you can get
    the hang of how OpenType works, testing the results in InDesign. Only after you''re
    comfortable with OT from a Latin perspective would I suggest moving on to Arabic.
    Currently making an Arabic OT font requires using VOLT, but there are a number
    of Arabic fonts containing VOLT "sources" that will help you get started. '
  created: '2005-11-17 16:35:48'
- author:
    name: irf2k
  body: "hmm, ya, i guess going from scratch to something as complicated as an arabic
    font would be somewhat of a challenge...\r\ni was told, however (from other sources),
    that FontLab should be able to do what I need for an Arabic font (that is glyph
    variants and diacratic marks) but I guess VOLT (as the full name would suggest)
    is what I need for an Open Type Layout Table. \r\nSo, I'll begin working with
    Latin OT fonts in FontLab and when I'm proficient with those, I'll move on.\r\nThanks
    for your help, much appreciated.\r\nirf2k\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-17 19:45:40'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> i recently downloaded the fontlab demo, \r\n> but it didn\u2019t come with
    any help files \r\n> AT ALL.\r\n\r\nYou mean, other than the 700+ pages manual
    for FontLab 4.6, or the 900+ pages manual for Fontlab Studio 5, both being available
    for free from our website in PDF format? :) \r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontlab.com/FontLab-Studio/FontLab-Studio/Download-FontLab-Studio/\r\nhttp://www.fontlab.com/FontLab-4.6/FontLab-4.6/Download-FontLab-4.6/\r\n\r\n>
    does the actual product come with support?\r\n\r\nSure. :) \r\n\r\n> Is there
    some tutorial on the web where I can master the basics? \r\n\r\nI suggest getting
    the book \"Learn FontLab Fast\": \r\nhttp://www.logofontandlettering.com/ \r\n\r\nThen,
    I suggest looking at my post at: \r\nhttp://groups.msn.com/FontLab/general.msnw?action=get_message&mview=0&ID_Message=5109\r\n\r\nAnd
    then, you're welcome to ask specific questions on the FontLab forum or here or
    using http://www.fontlab.com/support/  \r\n\r\nRegards, \r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab
    Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-18 02:48:50'
- author:
    name: irf2k
  body: "ok, i shamefacedly admit i messed up on the whole 900+ page fontlab tutorial
    (which i have now downloaded and gone through half of). I do have a few questions
    though, just basic ones regarding how to make drawing the glyphs simpler. However,
    I will search for this first and then, if I dont find my answer post it in a new
    thread (to keep things neat).\r\nAdam, I appreciate the post on the MSN forum,
    it clarified the issue I had earlier (as to whether i HAVE to get VOLT to do everything
    i need).\r\nJust one question that continues this thread. After reading the manual,
    it discussed proper naming of glyphs as well as assigning the correct Unicode
    codepoint for each Arabic alphabet. What I had planned to do (and am in the process
    of doing) is to assign the Unicode for certain english characters to their (loosely)
    corresponding arabic characters (so i mapped \"alif\" to \"a\" or 0061, and \"baa\"
    to \"b\" or 0062, etc.\r\nWould this be wrong to do? I mean, I know it's possible
    to do it, since I already started, but would procedure dictate otherwise?\r\nThanks"
  created: '2005-11-18 15:46:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Would this be wrong to do?\r\n\r\nIf the font is your own personal project
    and you don't plan to share it with anyone else you're free to do whatever you
    like in the privacy of your own home. The Canadian font police won't break down
    your door and haul you away for making a hack-encoded font.\r\n\r\nHowever if
    you want to use initial, medial and final forms for the letters (as well as the
    isolated forms) and have the font work properly right-to-left and have the dots
    placed correctly and include a nice matched Latin design, and be able to use the
    font to display Unicode encoded documents and Web pages you need to follow the
    conventions of existing Unicode OpenType Arabic fonts and not invent your own
    system.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-18 16:48:35'
- author:
    name: irf2k
  body: "thnx si, \r\nits just a personal project, but i do want everything to work
    fine, including the placement of all dots and forms of the letters, so I think
    I'll make the extra effort to follow conventions of existing Unicode OpenType
    Arabic (sigh, more work than i had hoped for, but probably more rewarding).\r\nthnx"
  created: '2005-11-19 11:34:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Regarding VOLT: you will need to use VOLT if you want to enable mark positioning
    in your font so, for instance, if you think it might be used to set vocalised
    text then you will need VOLT. Even if the only mark that will occur is shadda,
    you probably still want to use VOLT for dynamic mark positioning, rather than
    filling your font with glyphs for every conceivable combination of shadda with
    a base letter or ligature.\r\n\r\nIf you don't intend to support mark positioning,
    then it is possible to make a basic Arabic font using only FontLab.\r\n\r\nI use
    VOLT for all my Arabic projects."
  created: '2005-11-19 19:47:24'
- author:
    name: irf2k
  body: "Well, i'm planning on using dynamic mark positioning, so I can see now that
    I'll need VOLT. But I have one setback regarding macromedia flash (the reason
    I am designing the font is for use with a flash movie i wanted to create). However,
    since it's not related to this topic, i posted it here:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16341\r\n\r\nwell,
    thnx for every1's help, i now know what's necessary in the development of an arabic
    font (and many other fonts as well)...and I've learned quite a bit...but as you
    might notice from the other post, it was all for nothing (well, not really nothing,
    b/c i did learn something, but i didn't accomplish what i wanted to)."
  created: '2005-11-19 20:18:31'
- author:
    name: conspirisi
  body: anyone got any ideas about displaying arabic with vowel signs in flash. I
    know flash doesn't support right to left yet. But was just trying to figure out
    the easiest way to do this, even if it requires me coding something up to render
    strings of text on the fly.
  created: '2007-07-25 10:00:54'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: '[sorry. edit problem]'
  created: '2007-11-05 16:31:10'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The OpenType Layout source code for the Microsoft Arabic Typesetting font
    is included in the Microsoft VOLT Supplementary Files, while the OpenType Layout
    source code for the Adobe Arabic font has been recently published on Thomas Phinney's
    blog: see the <a href=\"http://del.icio.us/tag/opentypedev%2Bsource\">opentypedev
    source</a> links. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-01 08:47:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Then, I suggest looking at my post at: http://groups.msn.com/FontLab/\"\r\n\r\nWOW!
    There are hundreds of people asking in vain for bug fixes. I feel much better
    now ;)\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2007-12-01 13:35:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam: <em>The OpenType Layout source code for the Microsoft Arabic Typesetting
    font is included in the Microsoft VOLT Supplementary Files</em>\r\n\r\nIt should
    be noted that this is actually the source for the initial version of Arabic Typesetting,
    which is considerably different from the release version as revised by Mamoun
    Sakkal. Not only is the design different, but so are some aspects of the layout
    intelligence. That said, the source available in the VOLT Supplementary Files
    is a good guide to producing a moderately complex Arabic font, and certainly provides
    the information one will need to produce basic Arabic shaping with the init, medi,
    fina, rlig and liga features, as well as mark and mkmk positioning features. The
    release version of the font also implements the curs feature, but this is, alas,
    still not supported in InDesign ME, limiting the useability of Arabic Typesetting
    to Office under Windows.\r\n\r\nI have some good ideas for Arabic type designs,
    but I won't make any of them for OpenType until the curs feature is more widely
    supported, since the designs will rely on this."
  created: '2007-12-01 20:41:44'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nhow would you summarize the most important differences between
    the version of Arabic Typesetting that ships with the VOLT Supplementary Files
    and the version of Adobe Arabic for which Adobe made the VOLT sources available?
    \r\n\r\nBest,\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-02 07:01:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "1. The VOLT Arabic Typesetting font includes some 'calt' contextual lookups
    for alternating 'tooth' length, a traditional disambiguation technique. You would
    need to compare these with the behaviour in the shipping version of Arabic Typesetting
    in order to determine whether they are correctly implemented in the VOLT source.
    Adobe Arabic does not have this feature.\r\n\r\n2. The VOLT Arabic Typesetting
    font includes glyph support for Qur'anic characters such as the ayah (verse) division
    sign; however, not all of these characters have layout behaviour defined. The
    Qur'anic combining marks do, but there are no lookups for numerals within the
    ayah sign; the latter is implemented in the shipping version. Adobe Arabic does
    not support any uniquely Qur'anic characters, since it was intended for modern
    texts.\r\n\r\n3. Adobe Arabic supports extended Arabic character coverage up to
    Unicode 5.0, so includes some characters that were not defined when the VOLT Arabic
    Typesetting font was made.\r\n\r\n4. Adobe Arabic supports numeral positioning
    for enclosing signs (year sign, footnote sign, etc., not including the Qur'anic
    ayah sign), which is not implemented in the VOLT Arabic Typesetting, but is supported
    in the shipping version.\r\n\r\nThose seem to be the main differences. The VOLT
    Arabic Typesetting is even more basic, relative to the shipping version, than
    I remember it."
  created: '2007-12-05 03:59:01'
- author:
    name: Mohamed Gallah
  body: "just a question here...\r\nhow do i disable or remove an arabic glyphs without
    getting error from Fontlab Studio???\r\n"
  created: '2007-12-07 13:50:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "You mean disable or remove an Arabic glyph from an existing font? Any change
    to the glyph set of a font with compiled OpenType Layout tables will wipe out
    those tables. OT Layout is based on glyph IDs, so changes to glyph set size or
    ordering will things up.\r\n\r\nWhat are you trying to do?"
  created: '2007-12-07 21:00:13'
- author:
    name: jboutros
    picture: 115773
  body: "To answer Irfan question on viewing Arabic with Flash.\r\nBy using an application
    called arPix Professional, you will be able to use Arabic with most latin applications
    including Flash.\r\nThe application come with 30 fonts, it is supplied by Grapheast.\r\nIf
    you want to use your own font, you need to produce a version working from the
    character positions of arPix. When you open an arPix font with fontlab you will
    see what i mean. It is an easy process.\r\nhttp://www.grapheast.com/ge-software/cp.php?id=99\r\n"
  created: '2008-09-03 06:55:58'
- author:
    name: jum
    picture: 117203
  body: "Since this post is quite old i still do hope someone has a solution to a
    similar problem: \r\nI have completed an <strong>arabic font</strong> with almost
    all unicode ranges. \r\nAfter generating the font from <em>Fontlab</em> it won\u2019t
    display the right glyphs properly like any other arabic system font. It seems
    especially characters from <em>Arabic Presentation Forms-B</em> are replaced by
    others although the arabic unicode ranges are supported. \r\n\r\nAny solution
    how i get the glyphs to show up properly is very much appreachiated. Thanks a
    lot in advance. "
  created: '2009-04-20 12:02:40'
- author:
    name: Artur Schmal
    picture: 110750
  body: Maybe [[http://29letters.wordpress.com/2007/05/15/generating-arabic-fonts|this]]
    article by Pascal Zoghbi will be of your help?
  created: '2009-04-20 22:35:54'
- author:
    name: jum
    picture: 117203
  body: "Yes, thank you, it was. Pascal Zoghbi did a very good job there, but what
    i need to know is if it\u2019s possible to generate a functioning arabic typeface
    in <em>Fontlab</em> and what i\u2019ll have to do to make it show all glyphs properly. "
  created: '2009-04-21 16:26:52'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: 'John hudson plz your arabic project vedio tutorial if availabe on internate
    refer me. '
  created: '2010-04-21 13:45:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2007/06/adobe_arabic_sa.html\r\n\r\nThis
    is not a 'video tutorial' -- sorry, I don't have one -- but includes a link to
    the VOLT project source for the Adobe Arabic Regular font, which can be used as
    a guide to developing OpenType Layout features for Arabic in Microsoft's VOLT
    tool."
  created: '2010-04-21 19:07:38'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "Dear John Hudson,\r\n\r\nPlease tell me ligature bari yeh before init, medi
    form join the ligature, joint point, what you know any rule in volt please provide
    detail, i thankful to you whole life. My imge below show the problem.\r\n\r\nBest
    regards,\r\n\r\nSaleem Ali Ghalib\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ligature-problem_3465.gif]"
  created: '2010-06-18 13:13:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Is your ligature designed so that the bottom part of the bari yeh sits on
    the baseline? This is what it looks like in your image. Why not just make the
    glyph lower, so that the top part automatically aligns with the preceded letters.
    Bari yeh is normally a descending form, isn't it?\r\n\r\nIf you do want the bari
    yeh to sit on the baseline, and to have the preceding letter raised, then you
    need to use a Cursive Attachment GPOS lookup, but that's a lot more work that
    wouldn't normally be necessary for a flat design like this."
  created: '2010-06-18 18:51:50'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "Dear John,\r\n\r\nThank you, yours fruitful suggestion."
  created: '2010-06-21 06:53:18'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "Dear John Hudson,\r\n\r\nMy font is working on PC properly , but this font
    is not working on Mac adobe indesign ME version some word does not articulates,
    do you think that the font i have made in the PC lacks some technicality? Kindly
    guide me that what should i suppose to do to make it possile that it should be
    competible on MAC as well,kindly put some light on this issue if you have some
    time if you dont mind.\r\n\r\n and other confusing is urdu digit aya number. Aya
    # subtitue comes in the circle like this (1) so whenever i want to write the numarics
    i to 9 it comes in this circle, its fine i am ok with it. However whenever on
    the other hand i write number 10 it comes seprately in the different cirlcles
    e.g (...(1)...(2), so kindly guide me to fix this issue.\r\n\r\nThank you john\r\n\r\nBest
    regards,\r\n\r\nSaleem Ali Ghalib[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mac-problem_5674.gif][img:sites/default/files/old-images/arabic-digit-in-circle_5690.gif]"
  created: '2010-09-03 09:03:40'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "In reply to:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15794?page=1#comment-428123\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16288?page=1#comment-428035\r\n\r\nSay:
    Even Arabic adobe does not work on Indesign correctly?!\r\nTo position themselves
    in the Arabic World,\r\nAdobe + WinSoft must digest what is explained here:\r\nhttp://www.khaledhosny.org/node/142\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-03 20:20:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Saleem, it would be helpful if you only posted your questions in one place.
    I have already responded to your question about InDesign breaking shaping where
    you posted it in this thread: http://typophile.com/node/15794\r\n\r\nAs I wrote
    there, I've not seen anything like this with other fonts in InDesign ME, so I
    presume there is a problem with the font.\r\n\r\nRe. the numbers in aya marks:
    have you looked at how this is handled in the MS Arabic Typesetting font? The
    VOLT source for an early version of that font is included in the <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/VOLT%20Release%20Notes/samples.mspx\">VOLT
    supplemental files</a>\r\n\r\nThe numbers are positioned in the aya mark using
    contextual lookups in the kern feature."
  created: '2010-09-04 18:17:26'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "Dear John,\r\n\r\n\r\nPlz describe, Is the otf arabic font is used in apple
    and window system plateform?\r\nMy previous posted elaborate and shouted my major
    problem. Kindly help me.\r\n\r\nyour's quick response, thank you again\r\n\r\nSaleem
    Ali Ghalib "
  created: '2010-09-06 06:59:02'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Saleem, Adobe applications use their own shaping engines, not system engines,
    and this is mainly so that Adobe can provide cross-platform compatibility within
    their applications. So what you appear to be looking at -- if I am interpreting
    your pictures correctly -- is not a Windows/Mac incompatibility, but a Windows/Adobe
    incompatibility. As I said, I have not seen this issue in InDesign ME with any
    of the Arabic OT fonts I have, so I presume there is something wrong with your
    font. I can't say more without examining the font.
  created: '2010-09-06 17:39:48'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "Dear John,\r\n\r\nThank you, immediatly reply, plz give your email, so i
    send my volt base font.\r\n\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nSaleem Ali Ghallib"
  created: '2010-09-07 10:10:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "tiro[at]tiro[dot]com\r\n\r\nPlease note that I am very busy, so might not
    be able to respond to email promptly."
  created: '2010-09-07 19:31:54'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: Dear Jhon Hudson tell me now generate urdu font in volt what is possible whole
    ligature incorporate in volt. Did you help me? My other font working properly
    in MAC and PC, yours fruit full advice being a good font designer in future.
  created: '2011-02-07 07:39:49'
- author:
    name: saleem Ali
  body: "John Hudson,\r\n\r\nPlz, I am waiting your comments.\r\n\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nSaleem
    Ali ghalib"
  created: '2011-02-11 06:17:23'
- author:
    name: rahmi_rt
  body: "you can see my last works\r\n\r\nhttp://www.rtsoftpro.com/diger/fontlarimdan1.jpg\r\nhttp://www.rtsoftpro.com/diger/fontlarimdan2.jpg\r\nhttp://www.rtsoftpro.com/diger/fontlarimdan3.jpg"
  created: '2012-03-07 23:06:57'
date: '2005-11-17 03:31:07'
title: where to begin creating ARABIC font? any suggestions?

---
