---
author:
  name: kj_kooijman
  picture: 111145
body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nI recently recieved my frist assignment for my typography class
  at school, we have to make a study about about an font of our choice.\r\n\r\nI have
  chosen the \"Sabon\" by Jan Tschichold. I have gathered alot of information about
  Tschichold and the Sabon itself (including the Sabon Next).\r\n\r\nAnd now i'm a
  little stuck so how do i go from here? I have no idea how someone should explain
  the special features/highlights of this particular font. I wanted to ask my teacher
  but he's a little hard to get hold of, he did show us some great books about/from
  \"Bram de Does\" that gave my some idea how to handle this sort of thing but i could
  not take those home with me.\r\n\r\nSo do you have any kind of reference material
  that i can use, any help is appreciated.\r\n\r\n(I'm new to this forum so i don't
  know if i'm posting this in the right category.)\r\n\r\n.pixr"
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Since I doubt that many people who frequent these forums are psychic, we
    have no way of reading your teacher's mind. If you're stumped, ASK THE TEACHER
    for a little guidance; I am told, by not a few friends of mine who ARE teachers,
    that they don't mind doing this...in fact, it's one of the reasons they got into
    teaching.\r\n\r\nAnd, incidentally, in the process, YOU will be doing your homework,
    instead of us..."
  created: '2005-11-18 00:40:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Seems like that is the font of choice these days:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16252\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-18 01:16:01'
- author:
    name: g_u_y_t
  body: "you are a graphic design student? if yes \r\nthen,after all the theoretical
    study u made on the font\r\nnow u need to show it,what special about the font\r\nhow
    u can use it,explore the practical side of the font\r\nby design,composition,
    good for text,what kind of text\r\nnews paper,magazine,headlines,what it function
    by its form.\r\nmaybe also alternative use of it,show show show,while ur a student\r\nit
    better to shoot everywhere and with time ull learn to aim the right target."
  created: '2005-11-18 09:40:56'
- author:
    name: kj_kooijman
    picture: 111145
  body: "thanks for the reply's, i understand your comments.\r\n\r\ni probably was
    not clear enough with what i was looking for, i really meant how does something
    look like that visually, so layout wise...\r\n\r\ni did some extra \"googleling\"
    and come up with some nice idea's so i'm gonna work with that for the moment.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-19 11:23:50'
- author:
    name: T Bones
    picture: 111040
  body: ".pixr,\r\nIt is a pity that you have been met with such hostility in a typographic
    forum. This should be a place where ideas and information can be shared without
    people making puerile comments. Forum users should say nothing if they have only
    sarcasm and contempt for those that wish to learn. It would seem that some people
    have a somewhat elevated and misguided opinion of themselves. \r\n\r\nA good starting
    point for looking at the charcteristics of type would be Making Digital Type Look
    Good by Bob Gordon. Good luck with your project."
  created: '2005-11-20 15:37:26'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "T Bones...\r\n\r\nYou may well consider it puerile to have no patience for
    those who would have others do their homework assignments for them; some of us,
    on the other hand, consider the request itself puerile. School work should be
    preparation for \"real life\" and, in \"real life,\" one is not always afforded
    the opportunity of asking others to do one's heavy lifting.\r\n\r\nAlso, the proper
    relative pronoun for referring to people is \"who,\" not \"that\"...\"those <strong>that</strong>
    wish to learn\" should be, in fact, \"those <strong>who</strong> wish to learn.\""
  children:
  - author:
      name: T Bones
      picture: 111040
    body: "Oldnick\r\nThe point I was making was that it is simply better to say nothing
      than to make spiteful comments. Whilst you feel there is no point in performing
      other's heavy lifting, there's no reason to discourage those asking for a little
      help. \r\n\r\nAlso, this topic is not about grammar. However, <strong>you</strong>
      should know that whilst \"<strong>who</strong>\" is the more commonly used relative
      pronoun, \"<strong>that</strong>\" is also permissible.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2005-11-20 16:12:17'
  created: '2005-11-20 16:02:20'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "T Bones,\r\n\r\nAgreed, the subject is not grammar but, since you felt compelled
    to lecture me on manners, I thought that the schoolmarm ethic should be answered
    in kind, and a lecture on grammar was therefore appropriate. <strong>That</strong>
    as a generic relative pronoun is permissible for slackers and, apparently, Brits;
    as proper English is taught in graduate programs in English Language and Literature
    here is the Colonies, <strong>who</strong> is the proper pronoun to use when the
    antecedent is persons, <strong>which</strong> is the proper pronoun to use when
    the antecedent is things. Also, <strong>others</strong>, when used as a possessive
    pronoun, takes an apostrophe; <strong>his, hers, yours, ours</strong> and <strong>its</strong>
    do not."
  children:
  - author:
      name: billygoat
    body: "oldnick/.pixr\r\n\r\nWOW! What an education!!! I tend to agree with T Bones,
      believing that that that that that guy said (punctuate that!) was perfectly
      acceptable. Language is constantly evolving (at least outside of America where
      it seems they still teach English with Victorian grammar books)......pixr, you
      keep using these type of forums to learn and move on. Some people like to help
      others and peer learning is one of the best ways of doing that. Don't get dragged
      down by those who (or is it \"that\"?) would have you believe that learning
      is about falling flat on your face. It can often be about helping others NOT
      to come unstuck.\r\n\r\nGood luck with the project.\r\n\r\nNick, is that \"in\"
      the colonies?"
    created: '2005-11-22 18:20:18'
  created: '2005-11-20 23:52:46'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello .pixr,\r\n\r\nI am not sure -- isn't there a PDF of the Sabon\r\nNext
    brochure on the Linotype website? (Dan?)\r\n\r\nThe one whom I'd recommend as
    truely exemplary \r\nas regards \"writing about type\" is Max Caflisch \r\n(he
    was a collegue of Tschichold by the way). \r\nHe analysed many typefaces for the
    Swiss magazine\r\n\"Typographische Monatsbl\xE4tter / Revue suisse \r\nde l'imprimerie
    / Swiss Typographic Magazine\",\r\nhowever, in German ...\r\n\r\nThen, John Dreyfus.
    Maybe you can get hold of\r\na copy of \"Into Print. Selected Writings\" (British\r\nLibrary,
    1994). It's about type history mainly,\r\nand contains articles about Baskerville
    &c.\r\n\r\nAnecdotes about his own types (which I find \r\nfunny and interesting)
    are in Frederic W Goudy's\r\n\"Goudy's Type Designs. His Story and his \r\nSpecimens\"
    (The Myriade Press, 1978; also as\r\nTypophile Chap Books XIII-XIV, \"A Half Century\r\nof
    Type Design\").\r\n\r\nIf you can get hold of a copy, B.H. Newdigate's\r\n\"Book
    Production Notes\" (Tabard Private Press,\r\n1986), mostly about typography, but
    also with\r\ncritical notes on typefaces.\r\n\r\nGood luck,\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2005-11-21 03:08:19'
- author:
    name: kj_kooijman
    picture: 111145
  body: "i did not mean to start a riot between forum members, so sorry for that....
    i guess.\r\n\r\n@T Bones, thank you for the support and the book tip.\r\n\r\n@k.l,
    there is a PDF at linotype with background information about Tschichold, but i
    don't think there is a download able PDF of the Sabon Next brochure. I did read
    somewhere that there is a good booklet handed out during the presentation in 2002,
    but i have not been able to find it (online). Nonetheless i would like to thank
    you for the book suggestions, i will surely look into those."
  created: '2005-11-22 11:13:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'll just chime in to say that Sabon is a really good choice for analysis...
    especially if you delve into the technical aspects, like how it was made to conform
    to the then-triumvirate of typesetting technologies. In fact an entire essay could
    be written on the seemingly innocent question: \"Why is the Sabon 'a' so wide?\"
    BTW, I know there's some great Sabon stuff in the Typophile archives, with scans
    from rare magazine articles and such.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-29 23:11:02'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Nick, is that \u201Cin\u201D the colonies?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, indeed it
    is; good grammar and bad typing are not, it seems, mutually exclusive. And you
    may agree with T Bones about sloppy reflexive pronouns...it's your prerogative,
    but I don't agree, nor do the ghosts of my English professors (yes, several of
    them are now dead).\r\n\r\nAnd I must also disagree with you when you say that
    learning should not be about falling flat on your face. I have heard it said that
    an expert is a person who has made very mistake which can be made within a limited
    field of interest; hence, expertise is gained from constant and continuing face-falling.
    And, due to a certain perversity in human nature, learning from others' mistakes
    (especially those of our elders) is no substitute for learning from our own. Try;
    Crash;  Burn; Learn; Repeat as Needed...a crazy little thing called Life.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-30 01:52:36'
- author:
    name: billygoat
  body: "Nick,\r\n\r\nMy comment wasn't that learning SHOULDN'T BE about falling flat
    on your face, but rather that it DOESN'T HAVE TO BE about that. If someone has
    the common sense, savvy, presence of mind and, it may be argued, humility, to
    ask for help that will avoid such an incident, then surely they deserve to receive
    that help. \r\n\r\nI agree with you in that falling flat on your face surely DOES
    teach you something, but it's by no means the best and only way to make progress.\r\n\r\nWhile
    I didn't want to make an issue of the grammar aspect, I will  just say Nick, that
    perhaps you should be aware that the language of your professors died along with
    them. Prescriptivism is no longer the order of the day. \r\n\r\nRegards\r\n\r\nPaolo"
  created: '2005-11-30 10:04:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Prescriptivism is no longer the order of the day.\r\n\r\nI assure you that
    editors and those who hire for literate occupations do prescribe. Such things
    as mixing up \"your\" and \"you're\" (pretty common on Typophile, alas) marks
    you as relatively less literate. Your writing is likely to be dismissed as a result.
    \r\n\r\nAlso writing without capital letters, as guyt does, will gain you readers
    who are irritated that you can't bother to help them typographically. Perhaps
    brief instant messages to friends are an exception. In general, though, proper
    use of caps is considerate to your reader, and writing in only lower case a misguided
    attempt at informality.  "
  created: '2005-11-30 13:06:45'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Amen, William.\r\n\r\nIf writing is undertaken in order to communicate, the
    greater the precision of the language, the greater the chance that communication
    will, in fact, occur. This linkage between precision and efficacy of thought-conveyance
    is precisely why rules are necessary.\r\n\r\nIf your thoughts are sloppy or you
    have no intention of being understood, then, by all means, use sloppy language.
    Yanumsane?"
  created: '2005-11-30 13:43:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"(pretty common on Typophile, alas) marks you as relatively less literate.
    Your writing is likely to be dismissed as a result.\"\r\n\r\nWilliam,\r\nThis
    may be true in publishing but when someone here online bangs out a post quickly,
    there will be more errors than when they are writing with more resultive a purpose.
    I am sure all of my posts are just rittled with typos and spelling errors. I don't
    feel too bad about it. Speed kills in writing as well as in driving a car. The
    difference is what is lost on a Typophile post is nothing compared to a car accident.\r\n\r\nI
    am always willing to forgive typing errors in online forums and certainly never
    give a second thought to strange construction due to the home language of the
    writer. If I don't understand a post, I'll just ask for clarification. I asuume
    everyone else here will do the same when my writing or typing is off the mark.
    I am probably one of the worst offenders on Typophile when it comes to spelling
    and typing so I have no right to look downward at others.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 14:01:46'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I am always willing to forgive typing errors in online forums and certainly
    never give a second thought to strange construction due to the home language of
    the writer.\r\n\r\nBeing a big offender myself on spelling, I am also quite willing
    to forgive such mistakes. Also my hat is off to those who are bravely struggling
    with the English language, and I am happy to struggle to understand and to help.
    \r\n\r\nBut typing in lower-case only is a decision, not a matter of speed--except
    perhaps in instant messages. Similarly, using \"your\" instead of \"you're\" is
    most often not a typing mistake. It's also not a great sin in on-line dialogue,
    but my point was that billygoat's claim that \"prescriptivism is no longer the
    order of the day\" is seriously misleading to students. \r\n\r\nYou will NEVER
    find John Hudson or Nick Shinn, very articulate and literate Englishmen, making
    such mistakes as confusing your and you're. On Typophile it is almost always young
    Americans still in school or recently out of school who make such mistakes. After
    they learn by hard knocks that such mistakes stigmatize them, they wise up. Billygoat's
    advice will just delay their learning the facts of life, and subject them to humiliation
    or set-backs in their careers.  "
  children:
  - author:
      name: billygoat
    body: "\r\nI agree. \r\n\r\nYour write Mr Berkson. Maybee its the those who teach
      that need to be remindead that prescriptivism destroys creativity. "
    created: '2005-11-30 21:41:14'
  created: '2005-11-30 14:42:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gosh William, I thought you would pick up my purposive spelling error above--\"rittled
    vs riddled\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 14:53:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I thought you would pick up my purposive spelling error\r\n\r\nI did--I
    enjoyed your humor. Hey, I'm easy going on these things. \r\n\r\nOk, I admit the
    no-caps thing bugs me, particularly coming from typographers. \r\n\r\nBut a lot
    of other people aren't so easy going, and young people can really get hurt if
    they don't know this. "
  created: '2005-11-30 16:37:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You will NEVER find John Hudson or Nick Shinn,\r\n> very articulate and
    literate Englishmen\r\n\r\nI don't like the sound of that (as much as I think
    their command of\r\nEnglish is fine). Plus it's false. Plus Nick doesn't like
    to be... oh forget it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-30 17:07:12'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">asuume\r\nChris, \r\nI thought this was your purposive error.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-11-30 18:10:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tim,\r\nisn't that ahhhsuum? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 18:15:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Ok, I admit the no-caps thing bugs me\"\r\n\r\nSo you are not an e e cummings
    kind'a guy :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 18:16:19'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: Is that ahhhsuum as in shock and ahhhh?
  created: '2005-11-30 18:29:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"as in shock and ahhhh?\"\r\n\r\nYou must have had some bad intel on that:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 18:33:29'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">not an e e cummings kind\u2019a guy :-)\r\n\r\nActually I like e e cummings.
    He all his choices in typography are to serve his poetry, and he makes it work
    for him. Sometimes it's a bit precious, but often it works well. Doing the no
    caps thing in your letters, on or off line is a different thing. To me it comes
    across as a misguided attempt to be friendly or trendy (or both) by being informal.
    In reality, it just makes your text harder to read. "
  created: '2005-11-30 18:50:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"He ???? all his choices in typography\"\r\n\r\nFill in the blank?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n--Gotta
    love catching a real writing pro in the act of omission :-)"
  created: '2005-11-30 19:20:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hey, the joy of Typophile is that you can take a break from work, smile a
    bit, learn a bit, and shoot some BS back without too much strain. Sometimes the
    BS is a little more incoherent than others. \r\n\r\nThat should have been: \"All
    his choices in typography\" The 'He' should have been cut but wasn't--leaving
    stuff behind in revision is where I usually screw up. "
  created: '2005-11-30 19:35:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"leaving stuff behind in revision is where I usually screw up\"\r\n\r\nSo
    you ARE a revisionist :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 19:38:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">NEVER\r\n\r\nYou can keep up appearences now that its possible to fix you're
    mistakes on Typophile now that you can go back and edit them. Dude."
  created: '2005-11-30 19:44:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">go back and edit them\r\n\r\nYeah, I was tempted to fix my screwed up post
    above. Then I could have protested what is Chris talking about. But that would
    be wrong, as Nixon used to say :-)\r\n\r\nedit: just noticed the you're for your.
    And now the 'appearences.' And the run-on sentence! Wow. They don't call you Old
    Nick for nothing :-)"
  created: '2005-11-30 19:58:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"They don\u2019t call you Old Nick for nothing\"\r\n\r\nCaught it in the
    nick of time :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 20:24:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Maybee its the those who teach that need to be remindead that prescriptivism
    destroys creativity.\r\n\r\nTeachers don't help their students' creativity by
    failing to warn them when they make grammatical mistakes that will stigmatize
    them as ignorant. \r\n\r\nI don't think that knowing rules--such as rules of grammar
    or of typography--is a hinderance to creativity. Teaching the rules, their strengths
    and weaknesses, and when they can be bent or broken should be the goal--not either
    \"do whatever you want the public be damned\" or blind obedience to rules. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: billygoat
    body: "Once again I totally agree with sir. \r\n\r\nKnowing the rules - or what
      are deemed to be the rules - puts one in a position of power, because only then
      does one know when and how to bend or break them.\r\n\r\nThe point I was trying
      to make was that blind obedience - or blind instruction - makes creative slaves,
      not creative masters. \r\n\r\nThe original issue in all of this was helping
      others to achieve that goal, and NOT to leave them floundering. So let's do
      just that, eh?\r\nCrikey guv'nor, it's nearly Christmas. Can't you spare a little
      charity for a poor boy wiv a little project to support? Find it in yer 'eart
      sir, I beg yer.\r\n\r\nYours SINcerely\r\n\r\nCaesar Augustus Plantagenet"
    created: '2005-12-01 09:47:30'
  created: '2005-11-30 22:47:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Can\u2019t you spare a little charity\r\n\r\nKnowing the subject is the
    first requirement for a teacher. \r\nKindness is the second.\r\nWillingness to
    correct is the third. \r\n\r\nAll three should be present. I hope I wasn't unkind,
    but I felt you saying that if teachers correct their students' mistakes, they
    will stifle their creativity. The challenge of being a good teacher is to  both
    encourage and correct. To do one without the other is much easier, but far less
    helpful to students.  \r\n\r\nHave a happy Christmas. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: billygoat
    body: "Now I don't agree. Knowing the subject has very little to do with being
      a good teacher. \r\n\r\nOnce again I WASN'T saying that correcting students'
      mistakes stifled their creativity; they're your words. What I was saying, and
      this goes for the being a good teacher thing too, is that rigid application
      of subject knowledge, however good that knowledge may be, does not necessarily
      lead to good learning on the behalf of the students.\r\n\r\nThe challenge of
      being a good teacher is opening the students' minds and empowering them to think
      for themselves, not simply to pass on the thinking of others.\r\n\r\nSeason's
      Greeting to you too. "
    created: '2005-12-02 13:43:18'
  created: '2005-12-01 15:04:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think the primary attribute of a [really good] teacher is being a student.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-01 17:03:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Willingness to correct\r\n\r\nIn practicum work, I prefer the opposite.\r\nRather
    than look for faults and say fix them, look for possibilities and say follow these.\r\nThe
    faults will fall away. "
  created: '2005-12-01 17:28:25'
- author:
    name: barbara_emanuel
    picture: 110106
  body: "<em>>I think the primary attribute of a [really good] teacher is being a
    student.</em>\r\n\r\nWell said.\r\n\r\nReally good teachers are very confident
    (so the students can trust them to be right) and yet very humble (so they keep
    on learning).\r\n\r\nI've come across a few of them in my life and I hope to become
    one someday."
  created: '2005-12-01 17:35:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Rather than look for faults and say fix them, look for possibilities and
    say follow these.\r\nThe faults will fall away.\r\n\r\nNick, are you saying that
    you do not communicate to students, however tactfully, what designs or design
    directions you think are better or worse? In other words, that you make no judgments?"
  created: '2005-12-01 21:20:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Socrates had a way of getting his students to arrive at the (his) solution
    themselves by having a logical dialogue which made his truths to be self evident.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-01 23:08:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">of getting his students to arrive at the (his) solution themselves\r\n\r\nThose
    who have studied Socrates' dialogues and method in depth I believe agree that
    Socrates give a lot information and direction. His questions were most often not
    open-ended, but very directive--a way of building an argument. Also you have to
    recognize that Plato was writing the whole thing and made his 'Socrates' win as
    a character in his play. It is clear that Socrates had strong views and argued
    for them, however clever he was at disarming opposition. \r\n\r\nOne question
    is whether a teacher should communicate judgment about what is better and worse
    practice in his or her field. The other is what is the best way to communicate
    that. "
  created: '2005-12-02 00:22:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My favorite (and often used) line in Plato's Republic is \"Yes Socrates,
    I agree\"\r\n\r\nI fully understand that Plato uses Socrates as a hero character
    and gives him the best lines. I often used the Socratic method when I taught.
    It is much harder when you have to do it on the fly and you can't write the dialogue
    ahead of time. My goal as a teacher was not to use it to \"win a point\" but to
    get the student to analyze and support his/her own actions. My point was not to
    teach them to make a good design but to teach them to teach themselves how to
    do it and, most importantly, how to communicate their reasoning to their some-day
    clients. \r\nI use my own take on the Socratic method both when I interview a
    client about a new project and when I present my design solution for it. I often
    quote back what the client said at our first meeting and try to show how I addressed
    those concerns in the design solution. I am not a salesman though. My aim is to
    solve the clients problem and prove to them how I did it. I have no interest in
    dog-and-pony-show lip service.\r\n\r\n\"...whether a teacher should communicate
    judgment about what is better and worse... \"\r\n\r\nI never tried to make an
    outright judgment even though that is what several of my students wanted me to
    do. I took the longer route and had the student extract their own judgment.  To
    me, this is more valuable for their future when there is no one to guide them.\r\n\"...teach
    a man to fish...\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-02 01:16:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Socrates had a way of ...\r\n\r\nOf course it didn't hurt that they were
    all from the same village...\r\nDon't try that on the internet!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-02 01:28:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "> Socrates had a way of \u2026\r\n\r\nThis is much like superhero comic books
    or their TV shows. Things have not changed much in 3,000 years :-)\r\n\r\n\"they
    were all from the same village\"\r\nThe same one as Hilary Clinton?\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-02 01:42:02'
- author:
    name: beccabob
  body: ".pixr, \r\n\r\nBeing a fellow student I am surprised your tutor didn't give
    you some idea of a place where to start other than using the web? Without meaning
    to be patronising have you tried your library and mulled over books? \r\n\r\nI'm
    in the third (and sadly last) year of my BA (in Graphic arts) and I fell foul
    of asking for help on here. Google is great, the internet is great and the majority
    of people who post here I admire however I learnt a hard lesson from a select
    group and in my very English way poked two fingers up to forums, the web and went
    and burrowed in my universities library.\r\n\r\nTo my horror I actually started
    to read (again!) and so renewed my love of books and letterpress and the hands
    on aspect of type. Ask as many questions as you like but make mistakes and learn
    from them.\r\n\r\nRebecca "
  created: '2005-12-02 16:02:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">rigid application of subject knowledge, however good that knowledge may
    be, does not necessarily lead to good learning on the behalf of the students.\r\n\r\nOk,
    we're in agreement. Getting students to think for themselves is certainly a prime
    goal. So is conveying to them the wisdom and skills acquired by past generations.
    Part of this is a matter of what is better and worse in a given field. \r\n\r\nFor
    example, if a student of Chris showed him a typographic solution that failed to
    visually reflect the heirarchy of ideas in the text, and so failed to served the
    client's desire to communicate effectively to readers, he would, I guess, suggest
    that the student seek new and varied solutions to better meet the clients needs.
    This is more effective teaching than saying 'you idiot, you got it wrong', but
    it is teaching standards and past knowledge none the less. \r\n\r\nWhat I don't
    like is the idea that teachers don't have anything to teach, and that they are
    just facilitators. Billygoat you seem to advocate this view when you say \"Knowing
    the subject has very little to do with being a good teacher.\" \r\n\r\nTo take
    an extreme example, I don't want the teachers of my heart surgeon, if I ever need
    one, to not know and teach what kind of surgery works to cure people, and to correct
    the skills of their trainees before they do surgery themselves. And then my surgeon
    would just creatively figure out his own method for cutting me open. No thanks.
    \r\n\r\nNow I know graphic design is not open heart surgery, but there is a large
    body of knowledge and standards, and students are going to do a better job if
    they know it. And they are less likely to learn it if their teachers are ignorant.
    Because there are a number of valid graphic solutions to any design problem, doesn't
    mean that some of the solutions are much worse and some much better. I'm sure
    that Chris Lozos and Nick Shinn, who are masters in their craft, would communicate
    that knowledge very effectively. And some very wonderful and kind facilitator
    who knew nothing about graphic design would do a much worse job.  \r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: billygoat
    body: "William....you have a heart???\r\n\r\nGlad to see that you backed off equating
      surgery with graphic design...BUT, if your surgeon one day runs up against something
      that his/her sage professors and medical text books failed to cover? \r\n\r\nYou
      seem to like putting words in people's mouths...I didn't say anything about
      teachers not having anything to teach. That would mean anyone who can draw could
      be a graphic designer. Anyone qualified to teach should, one hopes, have something
      valuable they can pass on to students. If they are unable to teach, however,
      - and a qualification doesn't necessarily mean that they can - then much of
      that knowledge is not transmitted effectively. Some of the best teachers -and
      this may apply particularly to the design world - may not hold any form of recognised
      qualification.\r\n\r\nWhat I really want to know is where did Oldnick disappear
      to? He started the ball rolling. Perhaps he's really Saint Nick, getting ready
      to mount up behind Rudolf?"
    created: '2005-12-03 08:41:08'
  created: '2005-12-02 16:17:25'
- author:
    name: barbara_emanuel
    picture: 110106
  body: "Ok, \r\n\r\nI guess everyone agrees that a great teacher knows a lot about
    his subject AND knows how to communicate it."
  created: '2005-12-02 17:49:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">In other words, that you make no judgments?\r\n\r\nI hate giving grades,
    but it's a requirement of the job.\r\nIt's worst when you have a really good year,
    and you can't give them all A's."
  created: '2005-12-02 18:00:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think of giving grades as just another form of communication.\r\n\r\nBut
    yeah, if a school forbids giving an entire class an A, that sucks. On the other
    hand, if they don't forbid it, but it just means you do need to defend your decision,
    then it's a cop-out just to give a B to some people.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-02 20:32:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think we have to make a difference between correcting a student on factual
    material and conceptual material. If a student makes an error in arithmetic, spelling,
    anatomy, law  or safe medical practice, this is one thing.  But \"It Ain't Necessarily
    So,\" There is even wiggle room here.  I would not change the title of \"Porgy
    and Bess\" songs (\"Bess You Is My Woman Now,\") because they speak more correctly
    using wrong grammar.\r\nEven typographical rules (Goudy and Spiekerman not withstanding)
    concerning illicit acts with sheep.  The crux of the matter is doing it well.
    Steph Geisbuller, April Grieman, and Willi Kunz letterspaced lowercase quite well.
    I am glad nobody slapped their wrists with a ruler for doing it.\r\nWhen dealing
    with conceptual material with a student, I think the less iron-fast rules the
    better.  Every rule of today was at some point an exception in the conceptual
    arena. This is where dialogue and true enquiry are the best tools for teaching
    and learning.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-02 21:51:16'
- author:
    name: barbara_emanuel
    picture: 110106
  body: Do you guys (teachers and/or students) think that there are some specific
    qualities a design teacher should have?
  children:
  - author:
      name: beccabob
    body: "Barbara,\r\n\r\nGood communication skills and the energy and passion for
      what your teaching otherwise it is pointless to try to convey information to
      a third party. \r\n\r\nThe course I am on is so open wide every aspect of graphics
      arts and design is catered for and as you progress you can choose to fine tune
      your skills (in my case typography) or remain a general all rounder. You are
      then assigned a tutor who can cater to your needs.\r\n\r\nMy tutor often says
      that he will not teach us, thats not what he does, he likes to draw things out
      of us, as we explore our creativity and develop our own skills, so he'll set
      briefs that help us do that and then only as we have started to develop has
      he given us guidelines to follow. For example I am making a book within a book,
      The outer book will hold two or three words that have the same three letters
      in the end, the three letters will sit in the inner book so as you turn the
      pages it becomes a puzzle to match the letters to their endings. ( It's hard
      to explain but when I show it you'll see what I mean!) \r\nI had never made
      a book before so once I showed interest in it my tutor suggested areas to look
      at, bespoke printers and binders, the etiquette of 'high' book creation and
      so forth. \r\n\r\nI know as a person that to sit and read from a text book or
      be spoken at on 'this is how this is kerned' would of killed my passion for
      type years ago. The way in which I've been taught has made me so hungry for
      more that though it is not a traditional way to be taught it has helped me develop
      my creativity more than I've realised. "
    children:
    - author:
        name: T Bones
        picture: 111040
      body: "beccabob,\r\n<cite>>My tutor often says that he will not teach us, thats
        not what he does, he likes to draw things out of us, as we explore our creativity
        and develop our own skills...I know as a person that to sit and read from
        a text book or be spoken at on \u2018this is how this is kerned\u2019 would
        of killed my passion for type years ago.<cite>\r\n\r\nWhat instruction do
        you receive from tutors regarding the technical aspects of typography? Also,
        if you've never read or been told how to kern, what was your method of learning?"
      children:
      - author:
          name: beccabob
        body: "T Bones,\r\n\r\nWe have had lectures on how to apply type, but they
          prefer you to go away and try to set it without any guides. When you come
          to show your example, my tutor has then shown me where the errors are and
          how to correct them. I've found this a better way of learning, it is more
          of a one on one support, fine tuning aspects that if in a larger class I
          would not of been able to of grasped. Thats not to say I haven't read books
          on type, I have, but the hands on approach, to me anyway, has taught me
          much more than reading books (which I still use as a reference I might add!)\r\n\r\nIt
          helps that my tutor is a brilliant typographer and to stop him from repeating
          himself he has handed out sheets on aspects of type and book making. There
          are only fourteen in our type group and each person has such varied requirements,
          some design and create fonts, others write, others set type. I have taught
          myself through trial and error how to get the rules right in order to break
          them and then had my tutor check  what I've done. Maybe I'm naive but I
          like to think that you have a knack for type and appreciation of language
          instilled in you already :-)\r\n\r\nThe same aspect however applies for
          the other groups within my course, illustrators, information graphics and
          advertising, animation, script writers, printers - are all asigned individual
          tutors who are experienced within their field to help you develop your skills,
          you set your own briefs to help nourish your ideas and they help you learn
          the technical parts along the way. Thus making you develop confidence in
          your ability and to also give you a practical aspect of the industry. "
        created: '2005-12-03 12:11:12'
      created: '2005-12-03 10:41:48'
    created: '2005-12-03 10:26:48'
  created: '2005-12-02 23:45:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Barbara,\r\nI don't think there is one set of attributes which would work
    as a litmus test.  I think you have to take the sum total of the person and balance
    there good and bad aspects (we ALL have both). If the sum is positive to you,
    fine.  The sum may also differ from student to student.  Some students want to
    be told the gospel and feel lost without strict direction.  Some want a devil's
    advocate to push them to their heights. Some want a gentle source of encouragement
    to give them a sense of self worth.  There are several other general patterns
    that students want in a teacher as well as mix and match from all. \r\nI have
    had several different teachers with differing styles and personalities.  Most
    were good in spite of their failings. Some were bad even though they had strengths.
    The only common denominator I can think of is that all the good ones have an honest
    desire to further the knowledge and skills of their students. The bad ones tended
    towards self fulfillment over the needs of their students.\r\nI can't be more
    specific than that.  I would only say give each teacher you have a fair chance
    but don't be afraid to challenge them when you don't see where they are taking
    you.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-03 03:47:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">William\u2026.you have a heart???\r\n\r\nBillygoat, I was disagreeing with
    your views. You seem to think this is cruel. I don't. I don't think that your
    disagreeing with me is cruel either--though though I think that your 'humor' about
    my being heartless is rude. I think that respectful debate, including between
    teacher and student, helps everyone--including the teacher--to learn.\r\n\r\n>You
    seem to like putting words in people\u2019s mouths\u2026I didn\u2019t say anything
    about teachers not having anything to teach. \r\n\r\nYou said \u201CKnowing the
    subject has very little to do with being a good teacher.\u201D To me your statement
    clearly implies that whether the teachers have knowledge and skill to pass on
    is not that important, just their skills as a facilitator to the student learning
    on his own or her own. That view I think is mistaken, and my point was that if
    it is mistaken--as you seem now to agree--then so is your quoted statement.  \r\n\r\n>I
    hate giving grades, but it\u2019s a requirement of the job.\r\n\r\nNick, when
    I asked about judgments, I wasn't referring to grading, but to your making judgments
    of students' work, and communicating your judgment, however tactfully. \r\n\r\nThe
    excellent style guide you post at your site www.shinntype.com , called 'Diggin
    It', is an example of the kind of typographic knowledge I trust you pass on to
    your graphic design students. And I would think that when they violate the guidelines,
    you would get them to think about whether they made the work worse or better--and
    if you think that is clear that their sample is the worse for it, I hope you would
    tactfully indicate why you think so, and suggest directions for improvement. \r\n\r\nThis
    kind of tactful pointing out of where work needs strengthening is exactly the
    kind of thing that Matthew Carter, John Downer and Akira Kobayashi did at TypeCon
    in their critique of typefaces in progress. I think they were being helpful to
    those who brought their work, not cruel. Even though it is true that the person
    bringing work needs some toughness to welcome and learn from a critique.  \r\n\r\nYour
    views on Typophile are manifold and sharply put. I would hope that you communicate
    these interesting insights to your students--without expecting them to agree with
    everything you say. These are all your professional, experienced judgments and
    will help your students develop their own skills and tastes--which will not fully
    agree with yours or mine, hopefully. \r\n\r\nThe nature of visual design is that
    all guidelines on occasion have reasons to be broken. But they shouldn't be broken
    without a reason, because then worse work results. An example of this approach
    is, I believe, Ellen Lupton's 'Thinking With Type: A Critical Guide for Designers,
    Writers, Editors, & Students'. Note the word 'Critical' she is not a heartless
    and arrogant dictator, but she does give judgments and guidelines, which I what
    I think good teachers--of which she is clearly one--do. \r\n\r\nps. I just read
    Chris Lozos' comment on how different students are best helped by different styles
    of teaching. Wise, and beautifully put. Thanks, Chris.\r\n\r\nI would just add
    that while it is true that both sides can adapt, different people will always
    have different teaching and learning styles. So teachers and students both need
    some understanding and tolerance of differing styles if they are to have good
    teacher-student relations, and effective teaching and learning. \r\n \r\n  \r\n "
  children:
  - author:
      name: billygoat
    body: "William, William, William,\r\n\r\nPlease don't be so thin-skinned old chap.
      It was only a little ol' joke. Humourous banter! I'm more than happy for people
      to disagree with me. So please don't think I was getting at you, or that I felt
      your comments were cruel (SOB! SOB! - Don't worry about me William, you just
      get on with your life.....I'll be just fine...)\r\n\r\nOnce again though my
      overseas friend, you have misappropriated my words.....naughty boy! I clarified
      the point in my subsequent piece when I said that ability to teach is a thing
      apart from subject knowledge, not that it ISN'T important. Hope that clarifies
      things.\r\n\r\nYour comments to Nick regarding his judgements developing a student's
      style and tastes, and not passing on your own is more or less exactly what I
      wanted to get at. Well done that man! World Peace...there you are....a little
      dialogue and everything's rosy!\r\n\r\n'Ci sentiamo presto' as we say in sunny
      Sicily!\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2005-12-03 17:20:31'
  created: '2005-12-03 11:51:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">naughty boy!\r\n\r\nSo to summarize, Billygoat, you know that you haven't
    changed your position, but have been completely consistent. And you also know
    that it is fine to make personal jokes at other people's expense, and they are
    spoil sports if they complain about it. Have a nice day. "
  created: '2005-12-03 18:46:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, don't be so biblical. Really.\r\n\r\nBut yeah, a teacher should
    know the subject. Duh.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-03 18:48:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">a teacher should know the subject. Duh.\r\n\r\nHrant, Rousseau's views have
    been extremely influential in education. He argued at times (he wasn't consistent,
    but this is the influential bit) that people are all born wise and supertalented
    and will develop beautifully if only we get rid of adults messing them up. The
    main consequence of Rousseau's view is that teachers should get out of the way.
    That a teacher should know his subject is, as you say a big 'Duh', but this very
    influential view in education contradicts this obvious fact. \r\n\r\nI think Rousseau's
    influence has created very confused thinking about education, such as some of
    that in this thread. This confused thinking doesn't help teachers to do their
    job, and results in a lot of self-deception about what they are doing--that they
    are not giving direction when in fact they are all the time.  So when I read \u201Cprescriptivism
    destroys creativity \u201C and \u201CKnowing the subject has very little to do
    with being a good teacher\u201D I hear again for the n'th time the same confused
    ideas about teaching. \r\n\r\nI think that clarity about the real teaching process--not
    polluted by Rousseau's wrong ideas--helps people understand what they are really
    doing as teachers, and that clarity of purpose can only help them be better teachers.
    \r\n"
  created: '2005-12-03 19:18:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "JJR has said: \"When God made me, he threw away the mold.\"\r\nTo which my
    brother is fond of adding: \"It's a damn shame he wasn't still in it.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    said, JJR's views on Religion are right on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-03 20:16:01'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "</em></i>All of my <em><strong>best teachers</strong></em> (high school through
    college), with the exception of one, had no formal training to be educators. This
    is no longer possible in today's educational systems, since for the most part,
    masters degrees are required for educators.\r\n\r\nThe questions now are:\r\n
    - Why do I consider them the \"best\" of my teachers?\r\n - What did they teach
    me?\r\n\r\nMy judgement of these teachers is not based on conventional educational
    standards, but on how my very being was affected, even years after classes ended.
    In fact, two of my best teachers in college I truly detested until after time
    I started to realize what I had learned.\r\n\r\nSo my opinion on what makes a
    <em>great</em> teacher is based less on what is taught (or even the subject for
    that matter) and more on how well a student's higher functions are nurtured.\r\n\r\nTeachers
    who have the ability to un-clog minds and kindle the flames of creative and original
    thought are generally kicked out of conventional educational institutions. And
    since much of the criteria for educational programs are outcome based (<em>how
    much has Johnny learned from the first to the last class</em>) much of what can
    be taught is whittled down to simple pragmatics and recombination.\r\n\r\nMy best
    teachers gave me sleepless nights, either because I couldn't see or understand
    the solution, or because I was so incredibly stimulated my eyes wouldn't shut.\r\n\r\nMy
    best teachers taught me how to throw away the extraneous and get to the heart
    of the situation or problem; how to dismiss conventional answers and to discover
    the essential meaning; and above all -- not to be afraid of seeing things differently.\r\n\r\nI
    owe an immense debt to my teachers, mentors and companions on the road of learning.
    This is chiefly why I re-emerged from my cave, in hopes of sharing and giving
    back to this community. This is why I encourage exploration in developing new
    excercises and programs for graphic designers. \r\n\r\nMy fear is that we've abandoned
    these students because we've become confused on what to teach: \r\nSomething that
    can be tested at the end of the school year? \r\nor something that awakens new
    vision and untapped skills?\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-03 20:49:30'
- author:
    name: billygoat
  body: "William...really....\r\n\r\nI do hope you asked Santa for a sense of humour
    for Christmas!\r\n\r\nIt really wasn't my intention to upset your sensibilty......please
    accept my humblest apologies.\r\n\r\nAND ...NO ...I HAVEN'T CHANGED MY OPINION!
    Or are you now putting thoughts into my mind as well as words into my mouth. You
    really must break the habit!\r\n\r\nNow... try and stay with it......good knowledge
    does not (necessarily) = great teacher. Repeat. Okay. That's what Billygoat originally
    thought, thinks and says now and has intended all along.\r\n\r\nMy sense of humour
    is not intended to wound William. I'm trying to keep it light, not personal...not
    my style...Forgiven?"
  created: '2005-12-03 22:04:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Forgiven?\r\n\r\nOf course. Peace.  "
  created: '2005-12-03 23:22:15'
- author:
    name: barbara_emanuel
    picture: 110106
  body: "Thanks for the answers, guys.\r\n\r\nI graduated recently from a design school
    (ESDI, in Brazil), where I've had some really amazing teachers (in many different
    ways). \r\n\r\nI hope to teach there someday \u2014 in a distant future, of course...
    \u2014 and the things you've said made me want that even more.\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2005-12-04 01:19:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...made me want that even more\"\r\n\r\nThat is already a good start.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-04 05:58:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\" In fact, two of my best teachers in college I truly detested until after
    time I started to realize what I had learned.\"\r\n\r\nThis is something I wanted
    to mention as well. Even though you may be frustrated to the point of anger with
    a teacher at first, it doesn't mean that the Eureka affect won't set in later.
    I also had two teachers who affected me in this way.  The first one I had as a
    Freshman. I had come from a tough inner-city public high school where just not
    carrying a knife would get you a passing grade. After graduation, I was lucky
    enough to get a scholrship to a prestigious University.  In high school, I was
    king of the hill and sailed through with ease.  When I went to college, my new
    teacher had to dislodge me from my excess of unfounded confidence. It took me
    six months to realize what a great thing he had done for me.  I didn't get what
    I wanted but I got what I needed.\r\nIn my junior year, I encountered a teacher
    whom I didn't understand (neither did the whole class). It took three months for
    his terminology and concepts to make sense to me.  Once it did I took a quantum
    leap.  To this day, I think of this teacher as my greatest influence.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-04 17:36:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Norbert, right on.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-04 18:11:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">when they violate the guidelines\r\n\r\nThe biggest problem I have had with
    students, in relation to the finer points of typography, is not that they violate
    guidelines, but that guidelines exist in a different universe. There is a certain
    mentality that wants to set everything in Arial to whatever default the layout
    software has."
  created: '2005-12-05 00:06:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"There is a certain mentality that wants to set everything in Arial to whatever
    default the layout software has.\"\r\n\r\nThis is similar to the Quantum Mechanics
    Uncertainty Principle. Some students avoid uncertainty on principle and default
    to Arial because it is easy :-)\r\n(Hiesenberg is rolling over in his grave now).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-05 02:05:03'
- author:
    name: barbara_emanuel
    picture: 110106
  body: Or Univers 55, if you're in my school...
  created: '2005-12-05 10:44:02'
- author:
    name: beccabob
  body: 'Well I never use Arial as I hate it, I tend to use Sabon or futura or on
    very rare occasions Gill Sans light. '
  created: '2005-12-05 20:32:55'
date: '2005-11-17 22:53:10'
node_type: forum
title: 'font study : reference material'

---
