---
author:
  name: andyclymer
  picture: 110580
body: "Greetings,\r\n\r\nI'm currently developing an OpenType font that contains two
  sets of figures -- Lining Proportional figures as the default and Lining Tabular
  figures activated with the \"tnum\" feature. \r\n\r\nThe Lining Tabular glyphs are
  named in Adam Twardoch's suggested form of \"number.lnum_tnum\" and are in the class
  \"@FIG_TAB_LINING\", the Lining Proportional figures are in the class \"@FIG_FIT_LINING\"
  but the problem also occurs without using classes.\r\n\r\nThe problem is that InDesign
  labels the glyphs in the tnum feature as being both tnum and onum even though there
  is no onum feature in this font. This is to say that in the Glyph palette rolling
  over the Tabular glyphs shows that they are \"Tabular Figures (tnum) + Oldstyle
  Figures (onum)\", and the OpenType submenu of the character palette gives the option
  to select \"Tabular Oldstyle\".\r\n\r\nI understand that the pnum and tnum features
  are modifiers for lnum and onum (applying tnum could change lnum_pnum and onum_pnum
  to their tabular counterparts), so I'm not sure if there's a way that I can or should
  specify that the glyphs in the tnum feature are *only* lining, and never oldstyle.\r\n\r\nTo
  fix this problem I've tried adding an onum feature with a different set of glyphs
  in from font with the idea that it might draw InDesign's attention away from thinking
  the tnum group could contain oldstyle figures. I've also switched to using the tabular
  figures as the default and creating a pnum feature instead, but this ends in the
  same result of InDesign thinking that the glyphs are both proportional lining and
  oldstyle.\r\n\r\nI've been able  to reproduce this in more than one font and I'm
  using FontLab 4.6 on the Macintosh.\r\n\r\nHas anyone else see this? Any thoughts
  would be much appreciated!\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nAndy Clymer"
comments:
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Well, I just wrote a whole lot, which got eaten by the site. :-(\r\n\r\nYour
    Default Figures (DF) being Lining Proportional (LP) might be confusing InDesign,
    as most fonts have Lining Tabular (LT) as default.\r\n\r\nHere's what you need
    to have as your feature:\r\n\r\nfeature tnum { # Tabular Figures\r\n # Latin\r\n
    \   sub @classDF by @classLT;\r\n} tnum;\r\n\r\nAnd this should be in your classes:\r\n\r\n@classDF
    = [zero one two three four five six seven eight nine];\r\n@classLT = [zero.LT
    one.LT two.LT three.LT four.LT five.LT six.LT seven.LT eight.LT nine.LT];\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-18 19:14:45'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Okay. This is crazy. My reply got cut off. Sigh...\r\n\r\nWhat I had written
    after the above was that you should name your LT glyphs as above: zero.LT one.LT
    etc. This scheme allows the Glyph Panel to see the \"children\" glyphs and offer
    them under the pulldowns for the \"parent\" glyphs."
  created: '2005-11-18 19:20:47'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "Chester, thanks for the response. Looks like I'm doing the same thing (just
    the basic substitution of one class for another):\r\n\r\nfeature tnum {\r\n\tsub
    @FIG_FIT_LINING by @FIG_TAB_LINING;\r\n} tnum;\r\n\r\nThe problem also occurs
    when I'm not using classes (\"sub one by one.lnum_tnum;\", etc through the entire
    set)"
  created: '2005-11-18 19:22:44'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: Chester, I'll give the ".LT" naming a try right now, thanks.
  created: '2005-11-18 19:24:51'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Yeah, that .lnum_tnum gives me the willies...\r\n\r\nIn the interest of full
    disclosure, here's what my full set of numeral subs looks like, with DF being
    Scotch (M. Carter's \"Georgia\") -style 3/4-height numerals...\r\n\r\n\r\nfeature
    onum { # Old Style Numerals\r\n # Latin\r\n    sub @class1XDF by @class1XOP;\r\n
    \   sub @class4XXL by @class4XXO;\r\n} onum;\r\n\r\nfeature lnum { # Lining Figures\r\n
    # Latin\r\n    sub @class1XDF by @class1XLT;\r\n    sub @class1XOP by @class1XLT;\r\n}
    lnum;\r\n\r\nfeature pnum { # Proportional Figures\r\n # Latin\r\n    sub @class1XDF
    by @class1XLP;\r\n    sub @class1XOT by @class1XOP;\r\n} pnum;\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-18 19:37:06'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "feature tnum { # Tabular Figures\r\n # Latin\r\n    sub @class1XDF by @class1XLT;\r\n
    \   sub @class1XLP by @class1XLT;\r\n    sub @class1XOP by @class1XOT;\r\n} tnum;\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-18 19:37:35'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "feature numr { # Numerators\r\n # Latin\r\n    sub @class1XDF by @class1Xnum;\r\n
    \   sub @class1XOP by @class1Xnum;\r\n    sub @class1XLP by @class1Xnum;\r\n    sub
    @class1XLT by @class1Xnum;\r\n    sub @class1XOT by @class1Xnum;\r\n} numr;\r\n\r\nfeature
    dnom { # Denominators\r\n # Latin\r\n    sub @class1XDF by @class1Xdnom;\r\n    sub
    @class1XOP by @class1Xdnom;\r\n    sub @class1XLP by @class1Xdnom;\r\n    sub
    @class1XLT by @class1Xdnom;\r\n    sub @class1XOT by @class1Xdnom;\r\n} dnom;\r\n\r\nfeature
    sinf { # Scientific Inferiors\r\n # Latin\r\n    sub @class1XDF by @class1Xinf;\r\n
    \   sub @class1XOP by @class1Xinf;\r\n    sub @class1XLP by @class1Xinf;\r\n    sub
    @class1XLT by @class1Xinf;\r\n    sub @class1XOT by @class1Xinf;\r\n} sinf;\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    in the classes pane:\r\n\r\n\r\n@class1XDF = [zero one two three four five six
    seven eight nine];\r\n@class1XLT = [zero.LT one.LT two.LT three.LT four.LT five.LT
    six.LT seven.LT eight.LT nine.LT];\r\n@class1XOP = [zero.OP one.OP two.OP three.OP
    four.OP five.OP six.OP seven.OP eight.OP nine.OP];\r\n@class1XOT = [zero.OT one.OT
    two.OT three.OT four.OT five.OT six.OT seven.OT eight.OT nine.OT];\r\n@class1XLP
    = [zero.LP one.LP two.LP three.LP four.LP five.LP six.LP seven.LP eight.LP nine.LP];\r\n@class1Xnum
    = [uni2070 uni00B9 uni00B2 uni00B3 uni2074 uni2075 uni2076 uni2077 uni2078 uni2079];\r\n@class1Xdnom
    = [uni2080 uni2081 uni2082 uni2083 uni2084 uni2085 uni2086 uni2087 uni2088 uni2089];\r\n@class1Xinf
    = [zero.inf one.inf two.inf three.inf four.inf five.inf six.inf seven.inf eight.inf
    nine.inf];\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-18 19:37:49'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "This works for me. And yes, the order of the features IS important.\r\n\r\n[Hey
    moderators! I had to break my post into chunks, for some reason.]"
  created: '2005-11-18 19:39:03'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Ooops! Forgot these:\r\n\r\n@class4XXL = [Euro dollar cent sterling florin
    yen uni20A1 uni20A2 uni20A3 uni20A4 uni20A6 uni20A7 uni20A8 uni20A9 uni20AA uni20AE
    uni20B1 numbersign percent perthousand];\r\n@class4XXO = [Euro.OP dollar.OP cent.OP
    sterling.OP florin.OP yen.OP uni20A1.OP uni20A2.OP uni20A3.OP uni20A4.OP uni20A6.OP
    uni20A7.OP uni20A8.OP uni20A9.OP uni20AA.OP uni20AE.OP uni20B1.OP numbersign.OP
    percent.OP perthousand.OP];\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-18 19:40:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Chester! One more item for my OpenType feature code notebook!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-18 19:42:55'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "The \".LT\" naming didn't change anything, InDesign still thinks that the
    glyphs in the \"tnum\" feature are also in a \"onum\" feature even though there
    isn't one in the font -- when I open the OTF back into FontLab the feature set
    decompiles without any onum feature.\r\n\r\nAs far as I can tell I'm writing the
    feature code the same way that you are, for testing I've stripped the font down
    to just the \"tnum\" feature that I posted above.\r\n\r\nInDesign switches from
    the default Proportional Lining figures to the Tabular Lining figures without
    any problems with this code, it's just that it also still thinks that the glyphs
    that are in the tnum feature are also in an onum feature."
  created: '2005-11-18 19:49:51'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Or several items, thanks to the engine of this site. (Shakes fist in mock
    anger.)
  created: '2005-11-18 19:50:31'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "That's whack, Andy. What does Text Edit see? \r\nDid you know that you can
    access OT features using Text Edit. Here's how:\r\nType some text.\r\nSelect it.\r\nHit
    Command-T for the Font Palette.\r\nChange the font to your OT font.\r\nClick and
    hold the little \"Tool\" cog icon button in the bottom left corner of the Font
    Palette.\r\nSelect Typography...\r\nA new palette will pop up which gives you
    access to your font's features. (Even SSes!)\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-18 19:55:46'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: Maybe the problems are a bit deeper because when I do that the Typography
    window says "No typographic features in this font." It's an OpenType CFF and FontLab
    doesn't register any errors when compiling the features...
  created: '2005-11-18 20:02:38'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "About the \".lnum_tnum\" naming, I was following Adam Twardoch's suggestions
    from <a href=\"http://groups.msn.com/fontlab/general.msnw?action=get_message&mview=0&ID_Message=4966&LastModified=4675540745632224845\">this
    Fontlab Forum thread</a>, he breaks things down pretty well for building a font
    that's going to take advantage of all four figure substitution possibilities,
    but that's not a concern with this font.\r\n\r\nHis explanation is good (and I'll
    respond to that thread with this question when I've been approved to be added
    to the FontlabForum) in explaining that \"tnum\" isn't Lining or Oldstyle specific.
    I'm sure that InDesign just sees that a class can be switched from any kind of
    proportional to any kind of tabular and just assumes that the glyphs within could
    belong to either or both.\r\n\r\nI'm wondering if anyone else has tried to build
    an OTF with Prop and Tab Lining figures and see what comes up?\r\n\r\nHere's what
    InDesign shows for a glyph that is only in the tnum class and feature:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.andyclymer.com/temp/featurepopup.gif\">indesign
    feature popup image</a>"
  created: '2005-11-18 20:10:40'
- author:
    name: .
  body: 'All I can say is that fonts built with the code I included above work correctly
    in CS1 and CS2 apps. If there is one thing I have learned about OT feature coding,
    it is this: "If it works, don''t touch it even a little. Don''t try to improve
    it. Move away fromt he keyboard..."'
  created: '2005-11-18 20:22:45'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Andy, have you built a kern feature yet for the font? I seem to recall that
    the absence of a kern feature can cause the font's other features not to be recognized.
    Or maybe I'm thinking of something else. Just a hunch. <strong>Edit:</strong>
    Never mind. I <em>must</em> be thinking of something else.\r\n\r\nFWIW, I built
    Proxima Nova with proportional lining figures as the default without a problem.
    I did not give them any special names, just one, two, three, etc. For the other
    three variants, I used .tnum for tabular lining, .onum for proportional old style
    and .tonum for tabular old style. I don't thing the naming of the variants matters,
    but the naming of the default figures probably does."
  created: '2005-11-18 20:47:19'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Chester, \r\n\r\nAs for the glyph name suffixes, they are fully arbitrary.
    You can call your lining tabular one \"one.LT\", \"one.lftf\", \"one.ltf, \"one.lnum_tnum\",
    \"one.liningtabular\", \"one.mylefteyebrow\" etc. What is important is the use
    of the period and the suffixes. \r\n\r\nAt Fontlab Ltd., we recommend using four-letter
    suffix parts that are derived from OpenType feature names due to consistency.
    The glyph name suffixes are not standardized in any way but the OpenType Layout
    feature tags are (lnum, onum, smcp). The only way you can have industry-wide consistency
    is to use consistent suffixes, and the only way to do it is to use suffixes based
    on standardized strings -- that being the OpenType Layout feature tags. So a small-caps
    A should be \"A.smcp\", but it can also be \"A.sc\" or \"A.small\" or whatever,
    but not \"Asmall\" (since there is no period and no suffix). \r\n\r\nWhenever
    there is a suffix where a glyph is accessed through a combination of features
    (like onum+tnum), we recommend sorting the suffix parts alphabetically and concatenating
    the suffix parts using underscore (e.g. \"one.pnum_smcp\" and \"one.smcp_tnum\").
    \r\n\r\nBut really, the only advantage of this approach is that it's systematic.
    If you don't care for being systematic, you can use any glyph suffixes you want.
    \r\n\r\nAndy, \r\n\r\nsomething is probably wrong with your OpenType Layout feature
    code. The glyph naming doesn't really matter so much. Contact Fontlab Ltd. support
    at http://www.fontlab.com/problem/ for that and we'll take a look. \r\n\r\nRegards,
    \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-18 20:47:59'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "Mark,\r\nThe OpenType export options are set to generate a kern feature,
    I've noticed the same feature funnyness if the OTF is built without the kern feature.\r\n\r\nChester,\r\nThe
    help is much appreciated, thanks for the time and suggestions\r\n\r\nAdam,\r\nI'll
    contact FontLab support as you suggest.\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n-- Andy"
  created: '2005-11-18 21:06:31'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "I defer to Adam in many matters, and am glad to hear that his comments pretty
    much mesh with my workflow.\r\n\r\nAndy, I would be happy to poke through your
    file for wonkiness, if that is something you're interested in. (I spend half of
    my life in other people's files, getting them ready for publication, etc.) chester
    [at] vllg.com\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-18 22:11:23'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "On the TextEdit thing, note that OS X OpenType feature support requires OS
    X 10.4 or later. I'll bet Andy is using an older version of OS X.\r\n\r\nAs for
    InDesign and the features, this is essentially a limitation of the way InDesign's
    UI is set up to access the figure styles in pairs: one of [lining, oldstyle] and
    one of [tabular, proportional]. If you have even one of the two features in the
    pair, InDesign will give people the option of turning on both features. The reasons
    for this have to do with InDesign not knowing what your default figure type is,
    and the fact that you might have one but not both features of one of the pairs,
    even though you are in fact supporting the desired result.\r\n\r\nOne option would
    be for InDesign to go to a model where you set oldstyle vs. lining with one toggle
    and tabular vs. proportional with another. But for most cases that would mean
    two trips to the menu where today one gets by with one. So it's not an attractive
    option with the current UI. If some day InDesign gets a palette approach like
    Illustrator, it might be a little easier to go down that path.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-11-19 00:18:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"If some day InDesign gets a palette approach like Illustrator, it might
    be a little easier to go down that path.\"\r\n\r\nA series of check boxes would
    do the trick.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-19 00:28:38'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Mr Clymer,\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m currently developing an OpenType font that \r\n>
    contains two sets of figures \u2014 Lining Proportional \r\n> figures as the default
    and Lining Tabular figures \r\n> activated with the \u201Ctnum\u201D feature.\r\n\r\nSo,
    your figures are all lining, and the distinction \r\nis tabular vs proportional
    only.\r\nWhich means, you decide which set of figures shall \r\nbe the standard
    figures (say, tabular ones) and name \r\nthem zero one two three ... plus according
    class.\r\nThe other ones will be proportional, with appendix\r\n.pnum (or whatever
    else, I confess my appendices\r\nare quite arbitrary too) plus according class.\r\n\r\nThe
    tnum feature now substitutes zero.pnum one.pnum \r\ntwo.pnum three.pnum ... by
    zero one two three ...\r\nThe pnum feature replaces zero one two three ... by
    \r\nzero.pnum one.pnum two.pnum three.pnum ... \r\n\r\nAs long as you would not
    add oldstyle figures, you\r\ndon't need lnum (lining) and onum (oldstlye) features\r\nat
    all.\r\n\r\n\r\nChester -- DF/scotch as default is a VERY nice\r\nsolution! \r\n(And
    the I-hate-doing-figures me says, oh dear, one \r\nmore set of figures ...)\r\n\r\n\r\nMr
    Phinney --\r\n\r\n> One option would be for InDesign to go to a model \r\n> where
    you set oldstyle vs. lining with one toggle \r\n> and tabular vs. proportional
    with another.\r\n\r\n... which would closer resemble how the features work ...\r\n\r\n>
    But for most cases that would mean two trips to the \r\n> menu where today one
    gets by with one. So it\u2019s not \r\n> an attractive option with the current
    UI.\r\n\r\n... which is true. And now I am curious:\r\n(1) In which way are figure
    styles offered in TextEdit/10.4?\r\n(2) And, even more interesting, in what about
    Windows \r\nVista applications?\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2005-11-19 03:48:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Chris L writes: \r\n> A series of check boxes would do the trick.\r\n\r\nNo,
    it would not. If you have a selection between two options (proportional vs. tabular,
    old-style vs. lining) or even a selection between four different versions (proportional
    old-style, proportional lining, tabular old-style, tabular lining), checkboxes
    are the worst UI implementation you could choose. \r\n\r\nKarsten writes: \r\n>
    (1) In which way are figure styles offered in TextEdit/10.4?\r\n\r\nTwo groups
    of radio buttons, one for the proportion (tabular vs. proportional), and the other
    for alignment (lining vs. old-style).  \r\n\r\n> (2) And, even more interesting,
    in what about \r\n> Windows Vista applications?\r\n\r\nThat depends on how you
    write your XAML file. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-19 09:28:26'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "Thomas,\r\n\r\n> If you have even one of the two features in the pair, InDesign
    will give people the option \r\n> of turning on both features. The reasons for
    this have to do with InDesign not knowing\r\n> what your default figure type is,
    and the fact that you might have one but not both\r\n> features of one of the
    pairs, even though you are in fact supporting the desired result.\r\n\r\nSo there
    probably isn't a problem with the way I'm building the features for this font,
    it's just because there's no way to describe to InDesign that in this font the
    tabular figures are always lining and never oldstyle?\r\n\r\nI'm curious though,
    the only figure related feature in this font is tnum but in the glyph palette
    when I mouse over a glyph from the tnum feature it says that the glyph is <a href=\"http://www.andyclymer.com/temp/featurepopup.gif\">\"Tabular
    Figures (tnum) + Oldstyle Figures (onum)\"</a>, but why wouldn't it also assume
    that the glyph could be Tabular and Lining? If there isn't even an onum feature
    in the font I don't think we should be seeing \"Oldstyle Figures (onum)\" here,
    do you agree?\r\n\r\nMuch appreciated,\r\n-- Andy\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-19 23:16:15'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Andy,\r\n\r\nYes, agreed on all counts.\r\n\r\nI think Adam is right about
    radio buttons being the theoretical ideal approach, as well.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-11-21 08:19:05'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Side Note:\r\n\r\nAndy, we met at typecon in San Francisco before you left
    to start the KABK program. I recently checked out your thesis project and thought
    it was great. It is unique to see such an American effort. Nice work and congratulations!\r\n\r\nRandy"
  created: '2005-11-21 10:49:05'
- author:
    name: trine rask
    picture: 111110
  body: "Hi Andy;\r\nWhat you see in the glyph palette in InDesign is the possible
    features the glyph could be a part of. I just generated Tabular Lining, Proportional
    Lining, Proportional Onum and Tab Onum.\r\nI wrote the features:\r\nfeature tnum
    {\r\n  sub @linfig by @tablinfig;\r\n  sub @onum by @tabonum;\r\n} tnum;\r\n\r\n&\r\nfeature
    onum {\r\n  sub @linfig by @onum;\r\n} onum;\r\n\r\nif I choose Tabular Oldstyle
    in InDesign I get it, even if I have Proportional Lining Figure.\r\nWhen I mouse
    over the glyph palette I see possible actions between existing glyphs with names
    similar to my features and after adding Old Style figures the choise tab onum
    is no longer listed by the Lining Fig as you have it. But now I see pnum by proportional
    oldstyle though its actually in tnum feature and lnum by Lining Figures though
    its actually in the onum feature. So its the same naming, but not the feature
    on and off, it's the action.\r\nAnd then until you have defined that default is
    lining you can get tabular figures by both tab Oldstyle and tab lining \r\n"
  created: '2005-11-21 11:00:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "> A series of check boxes would do the trick.\r\n\r\nDumb arse me meant radio
    buttons to begin with.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-21 13:29:36'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "Randy, good to talk to you again! I really appreciate the comments. I was
    made very aware of my Americanness while working at the KABK.\r\n\r\nTrine, I
    think what you've described is the pretty much what I saw when I was testing several
    different possibilities, but it looks like that's just the way InDesign operates.\r\n\r\nThanks!"
  created: '2005-11-21 15:22:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I was made very aware of my Americanness while working at the KABK.\r\n\r\nElaborate!
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-28 21:06:14'
date: '2005-11-18 16:32:28'
node_type: forum
title: OpenType feature "tnum" problem in InDesign

---
