---
author:
  name: silas
  picture: 110762
body: "SBC/AT&T's new identity is announced...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.usatoday.com/tech/news/techpolicy/business/2005-11-20-cingular-att_x.htm\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sbc.com/Common/files/sig/att_horiz_color_sml.jpg\r\n\r\nDiscuss...
  or just go vomit alone.\r\n\r\nMy favorite part is where \"He says marketing people
  finally convinced him that the new look was more evocative of the Internet generation:
  'They tell me it's more trendy and modern.'\""
comments:
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "There's more from the horse's mouth...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sbc.com/gen/press-room?pid=4800&cdvn=news&newsarticleid=21908\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sbc.com/gen/press-room?pid=7521\r\n\r\n\r\nSome
    fun little timeline charts...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sbc.com/Common/files/pdf/logo_evolution_factsheet.pdf\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sbc.com/Common/files/pdf/brand_evolution.pdf"
  created: '2005-11-21 17:48:02'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "they should have just put a swash around the whole thing and called it a
    day\u2026\r\n\r\n;  )  \r\n\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-11-21 17:48:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ahh, yes, \"if in doubt Brand about\"\r\n\r\nTrendy says it all (inserting
    finger down throat)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-21 17:49:06'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Nice beach ball. Luky me, I won't be seeing it much here in the North Europe.
    \r\n\r\nmc"
  created: '2005-11-21 17:58:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"beach ball\"\r\n\r\nBeach Ball madam? Why that can't possibly be a beach
    ball--Christmas Tree ornament maybe though :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mili
      picture: 110756
    body: "Christmas Tree ornament.. \r\n\r\nYes, why not! Very seasonal. ;^)\r\n\r\nJust
      saw the first Christmas tree in the neighbourhood today, a few of those would
      look just fine in it."
    created: '2005-11-21 18:14:22'
  created: '2005-11-21 18:04:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...a few of those would look just fine in it.\"\r\n\r\nwith out a shadow
    of a doubt :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/atntorn.jpg]"
  created: '2005-11-21 18:17:38'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: gross :-/ I do like Nextel/Sprint's new identity though!
  created: '2005-11-21 18:24:43'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "Christmas ornament aside, doesn't anyone else think the type is wonky? I
    can't put a finger on it, but something is wickedly icky about the 'a' and the
    ampersand.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-11-21 18:28:06'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "i second the Nextel/Sprint ID.\r\n\r\n---------\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-11-21 18:28:57'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "Chris-\r\nLOL!!!\r\n---------\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-11-21 18:29:29'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: 'Growing up, I always thought "AT&T" really said "ATAT." I figured it must
    have been in reference to the oh-so-wicked <a href="http://highlights.ultimatedvd.org/starwars/movie_stills/episode-5/AT-AT005.jpg">AT-AT</a>
    (aka Imperial Walkers) in Empire Strikes Back. '
  created: '2005-11-21 18:42:40'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: yes... the entire NEXTEL/Sprint job is great... love the tv ads too... dry
    but not stale.  Glad they kept the black/yellow.  That really caught me with NEXTEL.
  created: '2005-11-21 18:49:00'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "<cite>doesn\u2019t anyone else think the type is wonky? I can\u2019t put
    a finger on it, but something is wickedly icky about the \u2018a\u2019 and the
    ampersand.</cite>\r\n\r\nTotally wonky.  With all the 'humanist sans' happening
    these days, there sure are a whole lot of wonky curves to go around.  I still
    cringe at Trebuchet."
  created: '2005-11-21 18:57:12'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: There's a banner on a building across from where I work in Times Square that's
    literally 20 stories tall, an ad for Sprint/Nextel and I enjoy it every time I
    look at it!
  created: '2005-11-21 18:58:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Growing up, I always thought \u201CAT&T\u201D really said \u201CATAT.\u201D
    I figured it must have been in reference to the oh-so-wicked AT-AT (aka Imperial
    Walkers) in Empire Strikes Back.\"\r\n\r\nGrowing up, I always thought AT&T stood
    for \" A Tin-can & Tin-can\"\r\nas in Tin-canTelephone :-)\r\n\r\nAhhh, generation
    differences :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-21 19:12:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Some* referred to the old AT&T globe as the \"Death Star\" so the AT-AT reference
    would have worked for them...\r\n\r\n*http://catb.org/~esr/jargon/html/D/Death-Star.html
    \r\n<CITE>This usage was particularly common among partisans of BSD Unix in the
    1980s, who tended to regard the AT&T versions as inferior and AT&T as a bad guy.</CITE>\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-21 20:00:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "May the Force be with you.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-21 20:03:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: always...
  created: '2005-11-21 20:04:38'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I would have done better for half the money...\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-11-21 20:27:50'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "I'm not from where you's fulla's are, and I clearly have less emotional attachment
    to a Telco's logo. But it is worse, so much more! I think the USATODAY write up
    says it all:\r\n\r\n\"AT&T's logo has been rejiggered to give it a 3-D effect.\"\r\n\r\nImagine
    adressing a boardroom full of powersuits and selling it with that line! The actual
    pitch and the USATODAY write-up would be hilarious to read side by side.\r\n\r\n\"He
    says the pint-sized letters, reminiscent of alphabet soup, were a tough sell internally\"\r\n\r\nMan,
    they are really hacking in to it. Those journo's know bullshit when they see it\u2026"
  created: '2005-11-21 21:07:04'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "In 2-D I don't mind it as much.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/att_1color.gif]\r\n\r\nIt
    still has problems (the type, that 'a' gives me the willies), but that 3-D Sphere
    of Mesmerizing Technology Swirls is just silly. They should have stuck with the
    uppercase type. No reason to stop. They're just losing some of the 'burned-in-the-mind'
    features of the old one."
  created: '2005-11-21 21:13:06'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "NYT says it's Avenir - Yikes! \r\n\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2005/11/21/business/21logo.html?oref=login"
  created: '2005-11-21 21:33:28'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: It looks like they did something funny to it, or it's not Linotype's cut.
  created: '2005-11-21 21:39:39'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It looks like they did something funny to it, \r\n\r\nyes that's why I said
    \"yikes!\" No disrespect to Avenir.\r\n\r\n>or it\u2019s not Linotype\u2019s cut.\r\n\r\nI
    think Linotype own the TM so no other cut could use the name. \r\n\r\nI think
    Cingular's brand is all Avenir, which makes the choice all the more/less interesting.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/avenir.png]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-21 21:50:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It is but a veneer of Avenir.\r\n\r\nI love \"Refreshing the brand\". It
    is kind of like changing the Kitty-litter in reverse--it didn't used to stink
    but now it does.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-21 22:01:56'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<cite>I love \u201CRefreshing the brand\u201D. It is kind of like changing
    the Kitty-litter in reverse\u2014it didn\u2019t used to stink but now it does.</cite>\r\n\r\nhahaha!
    :D!"
  created: '2005-11-22 01:26:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">\u201CAT&T\u2019s logo has been rejiggered to give it a 3-D effect.\u201D\r\n\r\nDamn
    those Photoshop filters.\r\nBut hey, way to go, UPS. \r\n\r\n>I would have done
    better for half the money\u2026\r\n\r\nIt depends how stern a stuff you are made
    of, Hector.\r\nJust how many corporate meetings and are you prepared to sit through,
    how many powerpoint rationales are you willing to give, before your brain turns
    to mush? Could you make it different, but kind of the same? Sure, give me the
    money, you want progressive conservative? -- no problem! \r\n"
  created: '2005-11-22 01:57:58'
- author:
    name: Brian_
    picture: 110618
  body: "Ok, trying to look for something good...\r\nIt appears that maybe they are
    going to try to change over everything at once... ? That would be good. No \"two
    logos at once\" like UPS is *still* doing.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-22 02:07:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: I'm surprised at the lack of craftsmanship on a lot of corporate rebrandings
    lately. The lines in the globe look like they're tilting counterclockwise, and
    they just look poorly drawn. I won't even mention the type. It looks like a cross
    between Avenir and Conduit.
  created: '2005-11-22 02:41:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I\u2019m surprised at the lack of craftsmanship\r\n\r\nDesign wanna be like
    art."
  created: '2005-11-22 03:13:35'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: I don't think this is lack of good designers, as much as it is influence of
    the corporate higher ups and what they think is good. I see this at work sometimes
    (RCA Records) on the American Idol and other things that Clive Davis gets his
    hands on. The ADs just give up and let him do what he wants with the artwork because
    it's a never ending battle on certain artists.
  created: '2005-11-22 03:42:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'I wouldn''t give Clive Davis all the credit for that beast. Although I am
    well aware of the trials of a designer and the steps they have to take -- blind-fold
    firmly on -- sometimes the market is what drives graphics. '
  created: '2005-11-22 05:46:13'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: Have we figured out what type face this is? Is it a tweaked version of avenier?
    Looks like maybe a little bit of edge rounding and the like.
  created: '2005-11-22 06:26:02'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: 'Tiffany: Sorry I wasn''t clear...I didn''t mean Clive had anything to do
    with the AT&T logo. I was just stating personal experience with an end product
    that was less than satisfactory to what original designs/options were presented.'
  created: '2005-11-22 06:49:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: "> Christmas ornament aside, doesn\u2019t anyone else think the type is \r\n>
    wonky? I can\u2019t put a finger on it, but something is wickedly icky \r\n> about
    the \u2018a\u2019 and the ampersand.\r\n\r\nSurely the t's are the offending characters?\r\n(as
    well as the crazy 3D bauble globe thing - agree with Chris R that 2D is best).\r\n\r\nI
    kinda liked the bell.\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Bell.gif]"
  created: '2005-11-22 13:03:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: Adrian Frutiger would be very disappointed to see that described as Avenir.
  created: '2005-11-22 13:09:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Everyone liked the bell except for the anrtitrust folks who made Ma Bell
    get a C section.  All the baby Bells were like Burnham Wood come to Dunsanane.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-22 13:18:46'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Yeah, but if they bring the bell back they can have the \"ill communication\"
    again. Though the new bell would probably be 3D as well, and have an animated
    clapper or something.\r\n\r\n\"The clapper represents the cutomer and we are the
    bell. We get to make a nice sound and you get banged around by our undersides.\"\r\n\r\nI've
    actually been soliciting non-designer opinions on my site, to see what less finicky
    viewers think of the new one."
  created: '2005-11-22 13:46:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019ve actually been soliciting non-designer opinions on my site \r\n\r\nlinkie?\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2005-11-22 14:48:53'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Ok...When UPS rebranded, I was nowhere NEAR this offended.
  created: '2005-11-22 16:35:22'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: Why is the globe looking down and to the left? It looks like the logo is hanging
    its head in shame, as should everyone involved in this process. Does anyone know
    who did this one?
  created: '2005-11-22 20:28:01'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'd qualify it as FUGLY.
  created: '2005-11-22 20:29:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Miss Tiffany!!! That is unladylike language--but as true as true can be :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-22 21:11:15'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "> <cite>Does anyone know who did this one?</cite>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.interbrand.com/\">Interbrand</a>\r\n\r\n\r\nThere's
    quite a lengthy discussion of this logo going on over <a href=\"http://www.underconsideration.com/speakup/archives/002478.html#002478\">
    at Speak Up</a> also."
  created: '2005-11-22 21:57:27'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: My problem with the look is it looks like a plate at a fancy resturant with
    a T-Bone steak and Ice Cream. They don't work together. Either at&t or the globe
    need to be smaller. They compete for the same space with no feeling of priority.
    My worst fear is it looks cheap. That isn't what you want to project when you
    are providing service.
  created: '2005-11-22 21:59:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"My worst fear is it looks cheap.\"\r\n\r\nIt looks like they got it from
    one of those \"Your own logo for $25!\" web sites.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-22 22:24:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'It really does Chris. I think they felt compelled to get to market. Why is
    it that companies don''t test there logos at focus groups anymore? A few weeks
    of testing would of told them what the consumers thought were weak points about
    their choices. '
  created: '2005-11-22 22:34:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe the suits were afraid they would be told they were wrong?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-22 22:40:07'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: I have an AT&T metal snow flake xmas thing from the 80's from a former girl
    friend... circa 1986.. I'll dig it out when we put up the tree.
  created: '2005-11-22 22:50:38'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I did a corprate idenity for a local bank that took over a year and it cost
    over 300 thousand dollars including a graphics manual. It didn't take 3 months
    for the branches to violate it. They never consulted the branches on what there
    needs were. No testing, no feedback. This is bad business at its best.
  created: '2005-11-22 22:54:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I worked for the Westinghouse Corporate Design Center when Paul Rand was
    on retainer by them.  The CEO was VERY supportive so the circle W identity was
    adhered to.  After Burnham left, things went downhill.  It all starts at the top.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-22 23:02:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I really find this one unbelievable. This must be the product of corporate
    bumbling and servile designers. Depressing. '
  created: '2005-11-22 23:23:55'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: or corporate servilitude and a bumbling designer.
  created: '2005-11-23 04:57:13'
- author:
    name: jrc
  body: I can't help but think of Continental Airlines.
  created: '2005-11-23 13:29:32'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "The real sad part is less about changing AT&T. To me the sad part is losing
    the Cingular brand mark. Cingular had successfully created a brand avatar that
    was so much more than a logo. Maybe the \"jack\" as they called it was a bit too
    trite, but it had some life to it. This is in the same vein as TiVo, only Cingular
    executed it better.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-23 16:17:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I agree with Joe about Cingular. To me the logo, the sensitive use of Avenir
    and the orange color have been a really strong and attractive identity. \r\n\r\nBy
    contrast Verizon's new name and especially logo were pitiful. The reputation of
    their phone service was better though, at least on the East coast.  "
  created: '2005-11-23 17:47:33'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "VSA did the original cingular mark and type which I thought was nice. Then
    the logo got hi*jacked* and turned into the 3D *person*. Then they added the speech
    bubbles. Then with the AT&T merger, they changed the colors to orange and blue
    with bubbles and 3D.\r\n\r\nAll that to say Cingular was long gone. To be fair
    I do think they made the right choice about which was the stronger brand: AT&T.\r\n\r\nI
    don't really care for sniping at corporate redesigns. I'm as big of a fan of good
    design as anyone else. But consider the UPS moves that got talked to death. They
    have done a beautiful job implementing their new logo IMHO. The put up the bucks
    to gradiate the tails of every aiplane and patch on every shirt. AT&T will throw
    enough money at the implementation of this new design that it will also work.
    This is true of the Verizon abomination. The logo sucks but the brand is strong
    because of the dollars spent putting it in front of our noses. \r\n\r\nR "
  created: '2005-11-23 18:00:29'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: What UPS has done to shoot themselves in the foot is the policy of not delivering
    packages to apartments. In Manhattan you have to come to the lobby to sign for
    a package. The problem with that is I'm paying a premium for UPS service and they
    don't deliver. It would be like an expensive resturant charging you top dollars
    and asking you to go to the kitchen to get your meal and wine. All the packaging
    and image creating won't create a good consumer experience. I will NEVER use UPS
    again.
  created: '2005-11-23 21:34:49'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<cite>What UPS has done to shoot themselves in the foot is the policy of
    not delivering packages to apartments. In Manhattan you have to come to the lobby
    to sign for a package. The problem with that is I\u2019m paying a premium for
    UPS service and they don\u2019t deliver. It would be like an expensive resturant
    charging you top dollars and asking you to go to the kitchen to get your meal
    and wine. All the packaging and image creating won\u2019t create a good consumer
    experience. I will NEVER use UPS again.</cite>\r\n\r\nAgreed. I try to use FedEx
    whenever I need reliable shipping done."
  created: '2005-11-24 01:43:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "UPS is a shadow of their former selves:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-24 01:46:43'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "I just knew this would turn into a UPS thread.\r\n\r\nI'm sorta sad that
    the little Cingular guy is leaving, but his orange was sooo 2002 anyway.  Perhaps
    they sent him on a mission to recover the discarded UPS 'package'."
  created: '2005-11-24 02:47:58'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: "this logo is as lame a \"redesign\" as i've seen. \r\nif Chermayeff & Geismar
    were dead, they'd be rolling in their graves. as it is, they're probably thinking
    \"why couldn't we have bid on this job?\""
  created: '2005-11-24 17:10:24'
- author:
    name: ChuckGroth
    picture: 110992
  body: but i feel the same way about the sprint/nextel lay-down. "logo design is
    HARD! can't we just go with this and get on with making another 27 billion...?"
  created: '2005-11-24 17:16:22'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "The old ampersand was great. Do you remember the ads they ran (about a year
    ago probably)? The new logotype retains the most memorable features of the mark,
    but throws out the best typographic feature. \r\n\r\nAnd I like the new Sprint
    mark a lot. It has a nice sense of motion and balance. It also plays off their
    pin drop motif without hitting you over the head with it. I regard Sprints new
    work as some of the best ID work on that scale (with that much nationwide presence)."
  created: '2005-11-25 16:57:25'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: The new logo is fine, I'd rather have it on my bill than any of it's stone
    age predecessors.
  created: '2005-11-26 17:46:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019d rather have it on my bill than any of it\u2019s stone age predecessors.\"\r\n\r\nand
    so you will :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-26 17:48:02'
- author:
    name: miles
    picture: 110468
  body: I might, if I were a customer, but I'd prefer Skype.
  created: '2005-11-26 17:55:42'
date: '2005-11-21 17:40:47'
node_type: forum
title: Spewing the new AT&T logo

---
