---
author:
  name: Palatine
  picture: 110988
body: "Do you prefer a well-set right rag, or a well-set justified page (body copy,
  long tracts of text)?\r\n\r\nGive reasons, if you can. I usually prefer a nice rag,
  but I've been improving my ability to set justified type as of late, so I find myself
  torn between the two styles.  "
comments:
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "It all depends on...\r\n<ul><li>first and foremost, the column width;</li>\r\n<li>the
    overall layout;</li>\r\n<li>the number of runarounds you're dealing with; andli>\r\n<li>the
    typeface being used.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\nToo narrow a column width can create rivers
    of white space and/or excessive hyphenation if you justify. If it makes sense
    within the context of the layout to set ragged right, do so, although ragged left
    is far more common and, in most cases, more readable. In regard to runarounds,
    see the first observation. And, IMHO, some typefaces just don't look good justified."
  created: '2005-11-23 00:01:26'
- author:
    name: giljimenez
    picture: 109460
  body: I try to take the subject matter, typeface, whole aesthetic into account before
    I choose ragged or just. The legibility should be the key factor for my decision.
    That said, I <em>prefer</em> ragged.
  created: '2005-11-23 00:03:05'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: http://www.hyphenpress.co.uk/titles/unjustified_text/index.html
  created: '2005-11-23 00:12:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> It all depends on\u2026\r\n\r\nSurely the language of the text should come
    high up on the list too? \r\n\r\nAlso the presence of a hyphenation dictionary
    - ie there not being one for the Web is a problem for justified Web pages regardless
    of column width.\r\n\r\nSi\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-23 00:13:19'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "I prefer rag right. Although justified is nice on occasion. Most of the time
    I try to make it easier for the poor bastard who actually has to read it.\r\n\r\nkris."
  created: '2005-11-23 00:40:56'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "The design and the goal of the project I work on determine if I justified
    or not the text. A nice rag text is also nice as a nice justified text. The hardest
    work is to make both nice.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-23 00:51:16'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Oldnick:\r\n\r\nYou mentioned that \"some typefaces just don't look good
    justified.\"\r\n\r\nWould you please offer a few examples? "
  created: '2005-11-23 01:23:15'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I like well justified text blocks but will use a rag whenever it is more
    apropriate than justification.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-11-23 01:39:25'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I believe the superior spacing of rag-right always outweighs any modest aesthetic
    benefit of justified, and I'm glad the world of print is slowly beginning to recognize
    that.
  created: '2005-11-23 02:06:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: It's all good.
  created: '2005-11-23 02:20:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Some of the fine art printers at the turn of the last century made full-justify
    a beautiful thing. But, this doesn't mean it is appropriate for anything else.
  created: '2005-11-23 04:51:42'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "Despite Si's accurate observation about the lack of proper hyphenation tools,
    I prefer \"justified\" for use on the web because most sites are still built with
    tables of one sort or another. Most pages, just like the one you are viewing now
    are simply combinations of rectangles and squares.  The rectangular look of justified
    text, to my eye anyway, works nicely with rectangular/perpendicular page structure.
    I suppose that since justified text on the web appears infrequently, few share
    my opinion!\r\nDK~"
  created: '2005-11-25 23:06:04'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>You mentioned that \u201Csome typefaces just don\u2019t look good justified.\u201D\r\n\r\nWould
    you please offer a few examples?</em>\r\n\r\nScripts, whether formal or chancery..."
  created: '2005-11-26 01:01:09'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Da Kine - Putting aside aesthetics for a moment, do you really find justified
    text more <em>readable</em>? Most do not, <em>especially</em> without hyphenation.
    Thus the logical lack of justified text on the web.
  created: '2005-11-26 04:39:08'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Stephen I find rags a bit distractive, but certainly sans serif faces often
    look better on rags since they are much more sensitive to spacing.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-11-26 08:00:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">superior spacing of rag-right always outweighs any modest aesthetic benefit
    of justified\r\n\r\nSo far as I can see, almost all books and newspapers are justified.
    My hunch is that sticking to this is not just a matter of conservatism, but  that
    justified text unifies text blocks. With the text blocks unified, the sub-heads
    and other navigational signals stand out more.\r\n\r\nAnother possibility is that
    the consistent ending location of the line makes it easier for the eye to plan
    and know when to jump to the next line.  \r\n\r\nSo it may well be that the stubborn
    preference for justified text has a basis in readability, and not just aesthetics
    and habit. \r\n\r\nNo doubt the ragged right has more consistent spacing, but
    with longer lines, as in a book, I personally don't find the spacing of justified
    lines with hyphenation present any problem as far as readablity. (Hyphenation
    itself can sometimes slow you down, particularly if there is a lot of it, or across
    page or column breaks.)\r\n\r\nSo it may be that ragged right, at least at longer
    measures, is more of an aesthetic choice, and the justified more functional.--The
    opposite of what most here are arguing.\r\n\r\nI most often see ragged right in
    shorter material, such as advertising, where navigation is handled by large spacing
    and placement, something not so possible in books and newspaper columns, crowded
    with text. \r\n\r\nI don't know whether my hypothesis on the functionality of
    justified text is correct, but I'd be interested to hear others' views.   "
  created: '2005-11-26 11:46:51'
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "Stephen-\r\nTo my ragged eyes, I don't really sense any significant readability
    issues in rag vs. justified. \"Of course, how many people actually read the text
    on websites anyway,\" he said, in a half-heartedly joking sort of way.\r\nDK~"
  created: '2005-11-26 15:48:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Worthy of a mention: a combination.\r\nThese two examples are taken from
    c.1840 and c1980.\r\nThe idea is that you start off with rag right, and then justify
    lines which are fairly close to the full measure.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/punchCU.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/viking2.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/viking.jpg]"
  created: '2005-11-26 17:54:50'
- author:
    name: Fisheye
    picture: 111178
  body: "As far as printed matter is concerned, my feeling is that the justification
    method has only to do with the aesthetic requirements of the text and the physical
    requirements of the media.\r\n\r\nOn the web, however, I would only justify all
    lines with very short passages where the spacing rendered by various browsers
    can be somewhat predictable. Here's hoping for better justification controls such
    as glyph scaling in future implementations of CSS."
  created: '2005-11-27 05:29:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Scripts, whether formal or chancery\u2026\r\n\r\nI think the monks did a
    pretty good job of fully justifying using these scripts.\r\n\r\nSi\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Fisheye
      picture: 111178
    body: "<cite>I think the monks did a pretty good job of fully justifying using
      these scripts.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's true, but monks would vary the width of
      glyphs as necessary, in addition to adjusting word and letterspacing. While
      InDesign's glyph scaling works well for the most part, it usually fails with
      scripts."
    created: '2005-11-27 19:32:14'
  created: '2005-11-27 06:37:14'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Si - Remember, they were handwritten, not type.
  created: '2005-11-27 07:44:22'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "Monotype\u2019s original Gill Sans has such loose spacing that using it justified
    (especially with those horrendous American defaults of Quark\u2019s, eg letterspacing)
    renders it almost unreadable."
  created: '2005-11-27 14:55:24'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "bert,\r\n\r\nInteresting you should mention letterspacing. If I understand
    correctly, some DTP software such as Quark or InDesign, goes further than simply
    varying the spacing between words when justifying text, but also makes subtle
    changes to the actual spaces between letters. Is anyone else bothered by this?
    \r\n\r\nI have very little experience with Quark/InDesign, so I might be misunderstanding
    the idea."
  created: '2005-11-27 15:07:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...but also makes subtle changes to the actual spaces between letters....\"\r\n\r\nYes,
    but you have control over it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-27 16:19:00'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Good point William, justified text blocks do give the text the uniformity
    required for navigational elements to stand out without loosing the subtlety that
    simple spacing can give.\r\n\r\nPlus justified text tends to be more economycal
    than ragged text.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-11-27 19:57:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Plus justified text tends to be more economycal than ragged text.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is not really true.  It is just an illusion.  By adjusting your H&J settings consistantly
    between rag and justified (except for the justify command of course), you will
    see the same economy in both.  It is actually easier to get more economy out of
    ragged right text. I have done experiments with my students on this several years
    ago when I was still teaching.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-28 01:59:09'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Well, if you adjust spacing in a rag, then you are loosing the main benefit
    of a rag which is consistent spacing.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-11-28 03:10:28'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I find that right-ragged text often doesn't work* with a paragraph indent
    so it requires extra leading between paragraphs, and if this is on a two \u2013
    or more \u2013 column grid the space needs to be at least half line space (so
    that occasionally, at least, the baselines align), ideally the space would be
    a full line space (on multi-column layouts) so you end up using more space with
    ragged-right, than you would with justified, indented pargraphs.\r\n* and reduces
    the attractiveness of one straight side\r\n\r\n>monks would vary the width of
    glyphs as necessary\r\nSo did Guttenberg\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-11-28 11:17:48'
- author:
    name: barbara_emanuel
    picture: 110106
  body: "Most newspapers here (in Brazil) use justified text poorly. It may be easier
    to read and it may unify the text, but it is so badly done that I long for some
    raggged text every now and then...\r\n\r\nah... the beauty of a well-spaced justified
    text..."
  created: '2005-11-28 18:39:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I like rag right. This is probably the result of too much exposure to poorly
    done Justified texts but practically speaking it seems safer/more pleasant for
    the reader to Rag.  \r\n\r\nJustification often seems to come about not as a result
    of desire to serve a reader but because of a twitchy, nervous, oldfashioned, english
    major-y or just plain compulsive book quoting client who can't be bothered to
    actually look at something and then trust the evidence of their own eyes. 'It
    say here that...' \r\n\r\nIn general rag seems more serious/less fluffy to me.\r\n\r\nI
    fully believe Justification can be done well, I have been startled by the realization
    I have been reading well justified text more than once.\r\n\r\nBut I don't trust
    most folks to do it well. Rag right is so practical!\r\n\r\nOf course sometimes
    text has to be Justified because of embdeded cultural reasons or just because
    you are busy mocking somebody's style to make a point. So intent has a role too.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-28 22:14:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Full justification is Modernist mayhem. Yes, sometimes it works, but all
    things being equal, rag-right -when done right mind you- is better, simply because
    it respects the word space (which is much more important than what space is left
    over at the end of a line). The Ancient Greeks did it very well.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-06 17:21:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Modernist mayhem\r\n\r\nLike Guttenberg, Jenson etc., etc.?\r\n\r\nAnd is
    there any evidence that small variations in word spacing slow down reading? "
  created: '2005-12-06 17:44:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Justification avoids the \"interference\" of having shapes and coinicidences
    occur at the right column edge, which can be a distraction, as the reader will
    interpret these as potentially significant. And indeed they may be, as statistically
    a short line tends to indicate a paragraph end.\r\n\r\nBy shapes, I mean, for
    instance, a succession of lines each of which is shorter than the previous, followed
    by the opposite, creating a concave indent.\r\nBy coincidences, I mean, for instance,
    two lines at full measure, followed by two much shorter lines of equal length.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, these ragged phenomena can be removed by artfully adjusting where word-breaks
    occur, but that's extra work.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nIt should also be noted that symmetry
    is aesthetically pleasing, deriving perhaps from the most fundamental level of
    sexual attraction. Recent research correlating physical symmetry of people's faces
    against the attractiveness of their pheromones discovered that symmetrical people
    smell sexier. Or was it that asymmetrical people wash less? Scary stuff."
  created: '2005-12-06 18:19:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Like Guttenberg, Jenson etc., etc.?\r\n\r\nOh yes, all kinds of stuff,
    since the Romans in fact,\r\nwho were the first to really cultivate Modernism.\r\n\r\n>
    And is there any evidence that small\r\n> variations in word spacing slow down
    reading?\r\n\r\nEmpirical evidence? Maybe a little bit, but probably not enough,
    and not nearly good enough. But considering the model of reading that makes most
    sense, there's very good reason to believe that varying word spaces hurts a fair
    amount.\r\n\r\nAnd I don't know what \"small\" is here. In fact many justified
    settings result in spaces that are bigger than some of the [short] words, so not
    small by any measure.\r\n\r\n> that\u2019s extra work.\r\n\r\nYes. Or: justification
    is lazy.  :-)\r\n\r\n> symmetry is aesthetically pleasing\r\n\r\nBut I think there's
    a severe limit to that in\r\nthe realm of immersion (the subconscious).\r\nAlso,
    variance can be just as pleasing.\r\n\r\nBut yes, the correlations to our physical
    reality\r\nare very fascinating, and I feel extremely relevant.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-06 18:52:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Once Hrant has decided to misuse a word, at least he is consistent in his
    misuse and will not be swayed from it :)  Of course, the irony in this case is
    that 'asymetric typography' and the rejection of justification was the rallying
    cry and most obvious characteristic of modernist typography.\r\n\r\nI often set
    text ragged-right and then, once all the text is flowed, turn on justification
    to see how it looks. If it looks good, i.e. even and without significant detriment
    to word spacing, I keep it justified, otherwise I go back to ragged-right. I don't
    have an ideological preference for either, but generally agree with those old
    monks: a nicely square text block is a happy thing, and if you can achieve it
    without disrupting the appropriate evenness of the word spacing (bearing in mind
    that we obviously have a tolerance for some variation in word spacing) then it
    seems merely stylistic not to. As a matter of style, there are certain kinds of
    texts that I would be inclined to set ragged-right: most correspondence, for example.
    As a matter of function, type at low resolution such as on websites usually benefits
    from being ragged-right simply because the pixel grid is too crude to preserve
    decent word spacing in justified settings."
  created: '2005-12-06 19:07:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Once Hrant has decided to misuse a word ...\r\n\r\nI'm just trying to correct
    your guys's too-narrow usage!  :-)\r\n\r\n> \u2018asymetric typography\u2019 and
    the rejection of justification\r\n> was the rallying cry and most obvious characteristic
    of\r\n> modernist typography.\r\n\r\nI think the most obvious characteristic was
    Das Grid.\r\nAnd don't blame me if their lust to blindly counter\r\nprecedent
    caused them to violate their own ideas!\r\n\r\nLittle boys playing.\r\n\r\n> If
    it looks good, i.e. even and without significant detriment to word spacing\r\n\r\nThe
    problem is that mere formal aesthetics is no measure of the deeper functionality
    required; just looking at a gray block says nothing [useful] about what's inside
    it, about what happens when you actually try to access the content.\r\n\r\nAnd
    when you say \"we obviously have a tolerance for some variation in word spacing\",
    I would say that sure, we have huge tolerance. We can even read long columns of
    NotCaslon with a single word on each line. But what is GOOD?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-06 19:19:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">the rallying cry and most obvious characteristic of modernist typography.\r\n\r\nActually,
    the initial phase in the 20s and 30s was all justified. As in El Lissitzky's \"Isms
    of Art\".\r\nVery ordered in a de Stijl kind of grid.\r\n\r\nHowever, the postwar
    International Style was all about the rag."
  created: '2005-12-06 19:24:59'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Based on carefully weighing (or weighing carefully?) the merits of rag vs.
    justified, I'll quote Master Gill:\r\n\r\n\"Even spacing is of more importance
    typographically than equal length.\r\nEven spacing is a great assistance to easy
    reading, hence its pleasantness, for the eye is not vexed by the roughness, jerkiness,
    restlessness and spottiness which uneven spacing entails, *even if such things
    be reduced to a minimum by careful setting.*\"\r\n\r\nWhile there are some applications
    for fully-justified text, we might all be better off reading a nice rag.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-06 19:51:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gill was da man.\r\n\r\nBTW, I'm not opposed to some word-space variation,
    sometimes.\r\nAs long as: it's very small; it's greater than the default, not
    less;\r\nand it helps do something useful, like avoid a given hyphenation,\r\nor
    maybe even make a way-too-short line a bit longer. I just think\r\nvarying word-space
    to enforce a pretty line at the end is dumb.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-06 20:06:52'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "It's deceptive, hrant, it really is.\r\n\r\nI've been reading justified text
    for most of my life, without ever really noticing it. I've read some ragged-right
    text, but mostly my own work. It's only now that I'm noticing how much faster
    and more comfortably I can get through tracts of ragged-right text. Now that I'm
    paying attention to this weighty subject, I feel cheated. My reading was actually
    slowed down, and for years on end, through no fault of my own.\r\n\r\nI'm horrified
    to learn that for the better part of my life I've been startlingly less efficient
    than I could have been.\r\n\r\n;-) "
  created: '2005-12-06 20:19:20'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'My take on justified vs rag type is about industry as much as asthetics.
    With most of the banks I''ve had as clients, don''t allow hypenation and if you
    can hypenate a block of copy you better not justify the copy. The other consideration
    is a good editor. If your copy is creating rivers in your justified text your
    copywriter or editor should be able to make edits to make the layout work. So
    (in my opinion) its not a either or but a product of a creative team. '
  created: '2005-12-06 20:41:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The trick to dealing with rivers: reduce leading.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nFor all
    those proponents of rag-right:\r\nWhy is it that the two most-read forms of publication,
    newspapers and novels, employ justification? Not only that, but newspapers have
    always had far too narrow columns for optimum word spacing. But just try and design
    a newspaper with a rag-right column, and you will be taken for an idiot by both
    publisher and readers."
  created: '2005-12-06 20:57:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Nick isn't that because justified type takes up less space. But I haven't
    seen a justified newspaper article where there isn't a bad river somewhere due
    to either word spacing and narrow margin. I still think a creative team would
    solve the problem.
  created: '2005-12-06 21:03:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The trick to dealing with rivers: reduce leading.\r\n\r\nInteresting strategy:
    destroy readability (by making word spaces appear larger than the leading, and
    reducing reliable line-returns to boot) so people won't realize the problem is
    the damn Modernist gray square.\r\n\r\n\"Even Color, Ohmmm, Even Color, That Is
    Always The\r\nGoal, Ohmmm\" chanted the big-chested but dim blonde.\r\n\r\n> Why
    is it that the two most-read forms of publication,\r\n> newspapers and novels,
    employ justification?\r\n\r\nR[e-r]ead the first thing I wrote in this thread.\r\n\r\n>
    you will be taken for an idiot by both publisher and readers.\r\n\r\nI didn't
    realize we were discussing popularity.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nDan, I agree that teamwork
    helps a lot; but when the writer is really good at his job, you don't want prettiness
    messing up the content. When the writer sucks, sure, change his wording to make
    things less ugly. But that's not the point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-06 21:04:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"isn\u2019t that because justified type takes up less space\"\r\n\r\nBut
    it doesn't.  All it does is take the space that would be at the end of a line
    in rag and spread it out among the word and letterspaces in that line.  There
    is no saving.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-06 22:03:57'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"chanted the big-chested but dim blonde\"\r\n\r\nmale or female?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-06 22:06:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The reason most newspapers use justified composition is that they have been
    doing it that way for ever and are quite used to it and don't ever think about
    changing. It has nothing to do with Modernism, space-saving, or readability, it
    is just habit.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-06 22:07:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More importantly:\r\n> you will be taken for an idiot by both publisher and
    readers.\r\n\r\nYou really think readers would notice, much less have a strong
    reaction? Readers do react to change, but without considering if the change is
    good or bad. It's like a knee-jerk reaction, best smiled at and ignored. It's
    what's happening to readers <cite>in spite of them</cite> that's useful to consider.\r\n\r\nBut
    as for publishers, yes they do grasp the details. The thing is\r\nthey might as
    well shouldn't, since they don't grasp the foundation.\r\n\r\n> male or female?\r\n\r\nI
    did put an \"e\".\r\nBut only because big breasts on a man are... unfashionable.\r\n\r\n>
    It has nothing to do with Modernism, space-saving, or readability, it is just
    habit.\r\n\r\nBut I think it's a habit borne of Modernism.\r\n\r\nAnd media which
    are traditionally rag-right could be said to be that way due to a combination
    of: smart individuals in those fields; and dumb luck.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-06 22:10:06'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"I did put an \u201Ce\u201D.\r\nBut only because big breasts on a man are\u2026
    unfashionable.\r\n\r\nyou also said chested not breasted\r\nmy point is:\r\nI'm
    not amused, and I don't see the need for this kind of thing.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-06 22:24:11'
- author:
    name: bshaykin
    picture: 110582
  body: "I generally prefer rag-right, both in my own work and in my reading material,
    with one big exception: novels. \r\n\r\nThe current PG Wodehouse Penguin paperbacks
    (the British version, I think) are nicely set, but they're rag-right and I find
    it very distracting. Maybe the line length is too short, but it starts to look
    like <em>The Odyssey</em> or some other epic poem.\r\n\r\nAlso, I find that <em>The
    New Yorker</em> does a good job of justifying their narrow columns by disregarding
    other typographic niceties like multiple consecutive hyphens, etc. \r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, they put an umlaut in \"cooperate.\""
  created: '2005-12-06 22:27:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What besides humor is OK to use when trying\r\nto say that Modernism is all
    about looks?\r\n\r\nThe lust for even color is the bane of craft.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-06 22:29:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The lust for even color is the bane of craft.\r\n\r\nRagged settings give
    a more even colour.\r\nThe advantages of a justified text block lie elsewhere.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-06 22:46:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Ragged settings give a more even colour.\r\n\r\nBut at a level that doesn't
    concern the typical Modernist, who is looking at the overall, often at extended-arm's-length,
    sometimes even squinting. But of couse that's not reading.\r\n\r\n> The advantages
    of a justified text block lie elsewhere.\r\n\r\nI'm open.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-06 22:51:25'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Newspapers aren't set in rags because rags would difficult navigation and
    content integration by adding visual noise... In the case of a newspaper, navigation
    is more important than even color... and the \r\nrelative legibility benefits
    of setting a regularly spaced text are lost against the narrowness of the column.\r\n\r\nNovels
    are not commonly set in rags because the same visual noise issue, people gets
    very inmerse and the last thing you want is an assymetrical crooked vertical line
    running on every page.\r\n\r\nJusfification is more economycal (now) because some
    lines are actually spaced negatively and you don't need a blank line between paragraphs
    or very big indents (more noise), and also because it's more commonly hypentated.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-12-07 00:05:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...because some lines are actually spaced negatively \"\r\n\r\nRag right
    can also be spaced negatively but evenly.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-07 00:53:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">the narrowness of the column.\r\n\r\nLess of a slalom for the eyes, so despite
    the moguls, a faster route?"
  created: '2005-12-07 00:57:57'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Yes you can space a rag negatively but then the benefit of even space dissapears.
    (I think I said this before on this thread).\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-12-07 01:21:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> people gets very inmerse\r\n\r\nPeople don't get immersed looking at a
    gray rectangle.\r\nThey get immersed [partly] by not having to guess how\r\nfar
    ahead the next word is.\r\n\r\n> Less of a slalom for the eyes, so despite the
    moguls, a faster route?\r\n\r\nThis sounds entirely anti-saccadic.\r\nPlease,
    it's been over 100 years already.\r\n\r\n> then the benefit of even space dissapears.\r\n\r\nNot
    really.\r\nAnd a slightly narrow space is less bad than a variable one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-07 03:24:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Yes you can space a rag negatively but then the benefit of even space dissapears.
    (I think I said this before on this thread).\"\r\n\r\nYou can negative space ragged
    right composition EVENLY which is my point. Track the whole thing to the same
    minus amount.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-07 03:28:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "\">> The advantages of a justified text block lie elsewhere.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    open.\"\r\n\r\nWell, Hrant, if you are open then what's wrong with the possible
    advantages that I, Hector, timd, and Nick Shinn have mentioned in this thread:
    I mentioned that consistent line endings might help the eye plan where to make
    the last fixation on a line, and when to jump to the next line. Also that aligment
    left and right helps navigation signals like subheads stand out. \r\n\r\nHector
    concurred with this second hypothesis. And timd pointed out that paragraph indents
    can sometimes look awkward with rag right text, so necessitating a full space
    between paragraphs. Nick Shinn pointed out a related phenomenon--that uneven rags
    can be distracting to the eye, seeming to give false visual queues. \r\n\r\nOf
    course I see that ragged right text allows you to have even word spacing, and
    I agree this is an advantage. But I see the advantages to justified text mentioned
    above.\r\n\r\nI don't see what 'modernist' aesthetics--and I really don't know
    what you mean by the term--has to do with the advantages or disadvantages of justified
    text under different conditions. It seem to me that it has specified advantages,
    and disadvantages or it doesn't. Then you can make your choice given the advantages
    or disadvantages, given your purpose and aesthetic preferences.    "
  created: '2005-12-07 03:40:41'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "\"You can negative space ragged right composition EVENLY which is my point.
    Track the whole thing to the same minus amount.\"\r\n\r\nOf course, but the point
    is that variability makes justified text more economycal, even when you track
    negatively a whole amount of text a justified paragraph will vary spacing to fit
    an extra word or part of it once in a while (even below the negative track) which
    can't be done with a good rag.\r\n\r\n\"People don\u2019t get immersed looking
    at a gray rectangle.\r\nThey get immersed [partly] by not having to guess how\r\nfar
    ahead the next word is.\"\r\n\r\nI think you are subestimating the power of human
    perception... anyhow I don't want to get into speculative discussions. The thing
    is that a rag creates a visual disctractor which is not welcome in newspapers
    and mostly not desired in extended continuous texts.\r\n\r\nI don't have anything
    against rags, but there are situations where they are more apt than justified
    paragraphs and situations where not.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-12-07 03:41:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: oops
  created: '2005-12-07 03:49:39'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">This sounds entirely anti-saccadic.\r\n\r\nNot really. In a narrow column
    there is less space for side-to-side eye movement (saccadic or otherwise) to occur.
    Therefore the meaningful field of vision of reading (foveal and immediately parafoveal,
    during the span of conscious awareness) is constrained to a more vertical dimension.
    More straight down = less slalom.\r\n\r\nBut I can't prove this, it's just an
    idea. Perhaps there are instead upwards saccades that slow things down. However,
    it should be possible to conduct experiments to determine an optimum line length,
    or whether ragged is faster than justified -- the same type of tests that Kevin
    Larson did for ClearType, which determined that it was 5% faster. Having said
    that, I don't think maximizing speed of reading is that crucial a priority, or
    that mechanical efficiency is the best criterion to apply to typography.\r\n\r\n>
    Please, it\u2019s been over 100 years already.\r\n\r\nDoes this kind of scathing
    comment add anything to the discussion?\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-07 04:14:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> consistent line endings might help the eye plan where to make the last
    fixation on a line\r\n\r\nThere's no reason to think that we plan \"last fixations\".\r\n\r\n>
    and when to jump to the next line.\r\n\r\nThis is done simply when the parafovea
    tells you.\r\n\r\n> aligment left and right helps navigation signals like subheads
    stand out.\r\n\r\nThis is non-immersive.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t see what \u2018modernist\u2019
    aesthetics ...\r\n\r\nModernism likes Regularity, for example a straight line
    on the right; or even better: straight, orthogonal lines on all four sides. A
    nice, tidy square that doesn't beg for extra attention, the damn selfish thing,
    taking up valuable time from my messed-up life...\r\n\r\n> variability makes justified
    text more economycal\r\n\r\nOnly if you make a certain (false) assumption about
    hyphenation.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t want to get into speculative discussions.\r\n\r\nI
    fear it's already too late.\r\n\r\n> there are situations where they are more
    apt than justified paragraphs and situations where not.\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\nJust
    as long as we agree that justification is\r\nmostly a superficial formal device,
    while a rag\r\nis more in tune with the human subconscious...  :->\r\n\r\n> In
    a narrow column there is less space for side-to-side eye movement\r\n\r\nColumns
    that are narrower than one saccade do indeed suck. Columns that are wider than
    one saccade are all the same.* And I still don't see how justification might help
    anything (besides appeal to some people's aesthetics).\r\n\r\n* I mean at the
    level of the single line.\r\n\r\n> Perhaps there are instead upwards saccades
    that slow things down.\r\n\r\nHuh?\r\n\r\n> it should be possible to conduct experiments
    to determine an optimum line length\r\n\r\nI think this is actually pretty close
    to impossible. There are some variables that seem extremely hard to account for,
    such as the experience of a given reader, not to mention that the actual content
    affects saccade length...\r\n\r\n> or whether ragged is faster than justified\r\n\r\nThis
    should actually be a lot easier to measure.\r\nBut still harder than Kevin has
    managed.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t think maximizing speed of reading is that crucial
    a priority\r\n\r\nI think it's just as fine/pointless as creating yet more disposable
    fashion.\r\n\r\n> Does this kind of scathing comment add anything to the discussion?\r\n\r\n1)
    You call that scathing?!\r\n2) It's just annoying to see vestiges of the\r\nfallacy
    of continuous flow during reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-07 05:24:47'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: 'Just a quick comment that many newspapers <strong>do</strong> use ragged
    right: I''m looking at a UK Guardian which happens to be on my desk and the shorter
    and less formal the piece the more likely it''s ragged right, although I can''t
    determine a hard and fast rule.'
  created: '2005-12-07 09:44:28'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">This is done simply when the parafovea tells you.\r\n\r\nAnd how does the
    parafovea know? If I remember correctly I read that testing that covers up later
    portions of the line affects how the eye makes the saccades. The parafovea I would
    think could see easily the right edge, or perhaps the brain fixes an orientation
    based on a first look at the text block. \r\n\r\n>This is non-immersive.\r\n\r\nSo
    what? When I turn a page I look at the page spread first, and see subheads, photos
    etc and I bet everyone else does too. We switch back and forth between looking
    at the page for orientation and reading.\r\n\r\n>Modernism likes Regularity, for
    example a straight line on the right\r\n\r\nYou use 'Modernism' in your own private
    way, but that doesn't mean others have the prejudices you ascribe to them. As
    has been noted, those who proclaimed themselves modernists in typography for a
    long time, and maybe still, preferred rag right. \r\n\r\nIn any case my point
    holds: the question, \"How does rag right or justification affect the reading
    process?\" is an issue separate from aesthetic considerations. Aesthetic considerations
    are important, but a separate issue.  "
  created: '2005-12-07 12:51:57'
- author:
    name: typofoto
    picture: 109920
  body: "Modernism was a recognition, at the level of theory, of a change at the level
    of material production. It was the intellectual expresion of the growth of mass-produced
    typography. Mass production brought about a division of labour between designers
    (who specified an original) and typesetters (who executed the original over and
    over). The preoccupations of modernists were efficiency of form, logical specification
    of design, new forms for new (modern) functions. Tschichold\u2019s New Typography
    is a clear and energetic expression of all this. \r\n\r\nWordspaces: \r\nAdrian
    Frutiger calls wordspaces \u2018boundary instruments\u2019, ie, they mark the
    end of one word and the start of the next. Ernst Hoch proposed that every wordspace
    means the same thing, therefore every wordspace should look the same. I have a
    lot of sympathy for this argument. I would say this is modernist thinking: that
    appearance should correspond with meaning. \r\n\r\nThe only argument I\u2019ve
    seen in print for justified setting was in \r\nNotes on Book Design by Derek Birdsall.
    He suggests -- and I\u2019m not entirely convinced -- that an even right hand
    margin helps to maintain a regular back and forth from one line to the next. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-07 12:57:23'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Fully-justified text is an aesthetic construction/form/device that forces
    the natural spaces between words to vary in order to achieve a straight margin
    on either side of a block of text (usually the right side.)\r\n\r\nRagged-right
    (or rag-right, etc.) text does not alter the spaces betwen words, leaving instead
    a \"ragged\" margin, where lines might end at varying distances from the margin.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not a typographer, typesetter, or a designer (though I do design what I produce
    on the page.) But something tells me that there is something wrong with justified
    text, when the rule for optimum comfort and efficiency in reading is that word-spacing
    must be even, and it must be tight. Justified text, even when adjusted, ignores
    that rule as a matter of course, in order to achieve some kind of gravitas, or
    air of order and neatness. The natural spaces between words, the very even spaces
    that allow the eye to move easily across the line without fixating for a brief
    yet perceptible moment on the unusual distance between two words, is subjugated
    to an aesthetic. And this aesthetic does not offer variety, interest, or a reprieve
    of any kind (in the case of long tracts of text.) Instead, it tries to promote
    exact order, straight, unyielding angles, and an air of \"professionalism\", whatever
    that means.\r\n\r\nAll this, often at the expense of tight, even wordspacing.\r\n\r\nI
    find this, even on principle, rather disturbing. The very idea that word spacing
    must be adjusted and \"put back in order\" somehow under these conditions so that
    some semblance of readability remains in this aesthetic straitjacket, seems to
    fly in the face of common sense. And I see it in my own experience. No matter
    how accustomed I've become to reading justified text, I always have an easier
    and more pleasant time (even if it is only slight) reading a well-set rag. And
    it doesn't take a lot of work to achieve a fairly smooth rag.\r\n\r\nI've been
    trained to prize one thing above all when it comes to readin' and ritin': Readability.
    Anything that compromises this must have a damned good justification for its existence,
    or should be avoided altogether.\r\n\r\nAm I becoming a zealot of some kind?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-07 13:55:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">an even right hand margin helps to maintain a regular back and forth from
    one line to the next.\r\n\r\nThis is what I was also suggesting. My feeling is
    that there are trade-offs--advantages and disadvantages to ragged right and to
    justification. And so what is best depends on the context. Sometimes it doesn't
    make much difference, sometimes ragged right is definitely better, and sometimes
    justified is definitely best. \r\n\r\nI'm not experienced enough to know how to
    define these guidelines very fully, but I would say that in general books with
    a single column of ample measure are best justified.  \r\n\r\nBy the way, Hrant's
    view above that \"Columns that are wider than one saccade are all the same\" goes
    against the view of most, including Bringhurst and Felici, that for single column
    text 2 1/2 lower case alphabets is the ideal measure, and varying from it too
    much hurts readability. I have tested this for myself, and am satisfied that they
    are right, and that this is an important feature of good typography.    "
  created: '2005-12-07 14:35:03'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>>And it doesn\u2019t take a lot of work to achieve a fairly smooth rag.</em>\r\n\r\nHave
    to disagree with that, and the points made about consistent spacing on ragged
    right. I (and I know I'm not the only one) have often applied tracking or kerning
    (negative and positive) to lines of text, especially if I am trying to avoid hyphenation,
    (the amount I am prepared to track depends entirely on the font). This, along
    with the time spent looking at possible turnovers/takebacks and avoiding orphans
    and widows, adds up to more work in the long run than justified text, which makes
    me question the \u2018economy being equal\u2019 point that Chris (and others)
    have made. Even without the tracking/kerning, checking for turnovers/takebacks
    etc. makes good-looking setting in ragged right a deal more work.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-12-07 14:50:30'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Equivalent or natural spacing is and should remain the standard for typographical
    formatting. This standard has a perceptual processing and an aesthetic dimension.
    On the scale of word and line, unjustified setting preserves the optical integrity
    of the word or line, facilitating effortless perceptual processing and unencumbered
    eye movements. And the eveness of colour at the text-block level is monumentally
    appealing.\r\n\r\nWell-written expository prose, though, is carefully structured
    according to paragraphs and sections. Justified texts with appropriate indentation
    \ and subheading mechanisms do a very good job of conveying basic discourse-structure
    and discourse-type to the reader. Is it loosely conceived or tightly structured?\r\n\r\nIn
    the grounding texts of a people or in the fictional texts of a literary tradition,
    justification helps differentiate between the narrative portions and dialogue,
    or between the narrative portions and mythopoeic glosses or versified intrusions.
    \r\n\r\nIn my <em>Globe and Mail</em> justification helps me distinguish between
    stories biased toward hard news and stories biased toward opinion.\r\n\r\nIn my
    <em>Globe and Mail</em> there are as many problems with the rag as there are with
    the justification. On short measures sometimes lines become too short, to the
    point where it becomes difficult to distinguish them from the last line of the
    paragraph endings. Elsewhere a particle like 'to' or 'in' or 'at'(or a hyphenated
    'or-') hangs far beyond a preceeding or / and subsequent line, and turning it
    would create a pocket of whitespace, or a concave shape that is both ugly and
    can be confusing to our reading-ware. So there is a lack of care because of the
    press of production time, but also inherent difficulties. This levels the playing
    field somewhat.\r\n\r\nSo the benefits of keeping a justified text option in the
    typographic toolkit are text-presentational and gestural-atmospheric benefits.
    Much of what justification provides has a subconscious impact on the reader's
    approach to the text. I have problems when one dimension of the reading / text-presentational
    equation is placed over against another to the point where attentivenes to the
    one becomes villified or seen in inherently oppositional terms.\r\n\r\nMy fourier
    experiments convince me that there is a margin of variability in spacing before
    the optimum distribution of role-architectural components (from a 'visual wordform
    resolutional' or 'perceptual processing' point of view) on the horizontal axis
    begins to break down, and seamless processing suffers.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-07 16:41:42'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "The main argument for always using rags over justified paragraphs seems to
    be that even word spacing is better to legibility. But if we ponder other factors
    such as the election of a good typeface, good printing conditions, good page design,
    good typesetting, etc... it seems to me that a perfect word spacing is not as
    important as it would seem (of course that a bad word spacing will ruin any text).\r\n\r\nSometimes
    using a rag will induce some visual distractors that will overwhelm the benefit
    caused by the good word spacing a rag can give.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-12-07 16:51:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "First, an important recap:\r\n> I don\u2019t think maximizing speed of reading
    is that crucial a priority\r\n\r\nActually, you're totally right. As I said in
    my Daidala interview, virtually everything type designers do is of trivial importance.
    To me there are two areas that really matter: good \"safety\" typography, like
    on medicine jars; and preserving cultural authenticity of threatened scripts (basically
    fighting Latinization). In my book Latinization is the single worst thing a type
    designer can ever do. I know because I used to do it  - and to my own script no
    less.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> And how does the parafovea know?\r\n\r\nThe parafovea
    pretty clearly indicates when there is no more information on the line [to be
    disambiguated]. That's why we never saccade beyond the end of a line, even if
    the previous fixation is far from the end.\r\n\r\n> The parafovea I would think
    could see easily the right edge\r\n\r\nSure, but it can see the end of a single
    line just fine too (as long the leading isn't negative or something). Now, if
    saccades were dozens of characters long (which they never are) then yes, a larger
    marker (in the form of large \"wall\" at the end) would help.\r\n\r\n> perhaps
    the brain fixes an orientation based on a first look at the text block.\r\n\r\nThat's
    too macro.\r\n\r\n> We switch back and forth between looking at the page for orientation
    and reading.\r\n\r\nSure, but when in deliberation performance is pretty much
    moot (like John was saying about \"tolerances\"). It's in long-haul immersion
    that the right edge (ie word space variance) matters.\r\n\r\n> Aesthetic considerations
    are important, but a separate issue.\r\n\r\nI think it is indeed important to
    see the distinction, but just as important is the need to integrate the two eventually.
    When we like how something looks, we're more likely to read it, and continue reading
    it (although once we're reading immersively it doesn't matter). The question is,
    how aesthetically pleasing do people find Das Box? Enough to justify the loss
    in performance?\r\n\r\n>  I would say this is modernist thinking: that appearance
    should correspond with meaning.\r\n\r\nBut when forced to choose between the macro
    appearance of the text block versus the micro appearance of fixated text, a Modernist
    will go for the former almost all the time.\r\n\r\n>> an even right hand margin
    helps to maintain a regular back and forth from one line to the next.\r\n\r\nThere's
    no reason to believe this.\r\nSufficient leading enables this just fine.\r\n\r\n>
    ... is subjugated to an aesthetic. \r\n\r\nBingo.\r\n\r\n> goes against the view
    of most, including Bringhurst and Felici, that\r\n> for single column text 2 1/2
    lower case alphabets is the ideal measure\r\n\r\nYou ignored my asterisk.\r\n\r\n>
    especially if I am trying to avoid hyphenation\r\n\r\nI dislike hyphenation* a
    lot. But sometimes it's\r\nuseful, so I would recommend being more flexible.\r\n\r\n*
    I mean end-of-line hyphenation. The hyphenation\r\nof compound words (like \"re-adjust\")
    I'm a big fan of.\r\n\r\nBut yes, making a smooth rag (especially when one\r\ndoesn't
    have the luxury/gall to rewrite the copy)\r\nis no piece of cake at all.\r\n\r\n>
    In my Globe and Mail justification helps me distinguish between\r\n> stories biased
    toward hard news and stories biased toward opinion.\r\n\r\nDo you think laymen
    do this too?\r\n\r\n> keeping a justified text option in the typographic toolkit\r\n\r\nTotally,
    do keep all options.\r\nJust know what they actually do.\r\n\r\n> Sometimes using
    a rag will induce some visual distractors that will\r\n> overwhelm the benefit
    caused by the good word spacing a rag can give.\r\n\r\nYes. But justification
    will ALWAYS ruin word spacing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-07 17:18:21'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The question is, how aesthetically pleasing do people find Das Box? Enough
    to justify the loss in performance?\r\n\r\nThe issue is not trading the birthright
    of performance for the lentil stew of aesthetics, but mindfulness of multiple
    dimensions of functionality. I tried to argue that justification has its owm subliminal
    functionality, and Hector is correct in saying: sometimes using a rag will induce
    some [pe: 'sub-attentive'--equals your 'unconscious'] visual distractors that
    will overwhelm the benefit caused by the good word spacing a rag can give.\r\n\r\nWhy
    do you keep acting as if everyone is talking just about aesthetics and deliberative
    attention?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-07 17:57:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Why do you keep acting as if everyone is talking just about aesthetics and
    deliberative attention?\r\n\r\nIt's his schtick and he'll beat you to death with
    it :-)"
  created: '2005-12-07 18:12:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Why do you keep acting as if everyone is talking\r\n> just about aesthetics
    and deliberative attention?\r\n\r\nNo, I think some -probably most- people here
    are talking about both the deliberative and immersive aspects of this. But relying
    on an incorrect reading model naturally throws off a proper grasp of the latter;
    while the former is mostly a matter of taste. We're all humans with emotions about
    things (like Regularity) and our opinions derive largely from these emotions -
    which however other people don't [need to] share - the important thing is to worry
    more about what other people need rather than what you or I prefer. For example
    I can see myself using justification sometimes - but I can't see myself ignoring
    the fact that this reduces readability. Just like how I make some of my glyphs
    intentionally less readable in some ways, to promote aesthetics. When one harms
    something, the least one can do is admit it. Most annoying is when somebody pretends
    to care just to be more accepted by his peers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-07 18:14:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And Peter, I repeat the question:\r\n\r\n> In my Globe and Mail justification
    helps me distinguish between\r\n> stories biased toward hard news and stories
    biased toward opinion.\r\n\r\nDo you think laymen do this too?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-07 19:22:21'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "I'm unimpressed with the kind of grammar and typography employed by newspapers
    (usually.)\r\n\r\nCase in point, The Globe and Mail (yes, that's right): A little
    over a month ago there was a long article, showcased on the front page, about
    the rising economic power of China. A salient feature of the article was a comparison
    between Canadian and Chinese imports/exports. \r\n\r\nThe headline: \"Where We're
    At.\" \r\n\r\nI immediately tossed the paper aside, no longer interested in \"where
    we're at.\" Where we ARE, in fact, is in a dismal state of affairs when it comes
    to grammar, not just typography.\r\n\r\nWhich leads me to my next problem: so-called
    \"hard\" news is justified, while \"soft\" opinion pieces or editorials are typically
    left rag-right. This is all as if to suggest that rag-right is unprofessional
    or too casual and unimportant to be taken seriously. As if the rag can't be massaged
    and adjusted. While the mock-professionalism or the palpable desperation for gravitas
    exuded by justified type will grab our attention.\r\n\r\nI notice no difference
    in \"importance\" communicated by the structure of rag-right vs. justified text.
    It's just easier to read ragged-right text, that's all.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-07 19:50:41'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Do you think laymen do this too?\r\n\r\nIn the post you took that from I
    wrote: \"Much of what justification provides has a subconscious impact on the
    reader\u2019s approach to the text.\" I might have added that it has an impact
    on how the text is received as well.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-07 19:55:31'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "in a dismal state of affairs \r\n\r\nThere is a lot of good typography and
    a lot of bad in the world of books and magazines and newspapers. I don't agree
    that the antithesis between good and bad lies between justified and un. On the
    whole the Globe and Mail, and many other newspapers in it's league, are well done,
    not the least because there are several very decent newspaper types around. By
    well-done I mean respectful of the needs of the reader. \r\n\r\nDo your really
    think that the intention of the Globe and Mail is to signal that the opinions
    of Peggy Wente are unimportant or to be taken with a grain of salt?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-07 20:23:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I agree it has a subconscious effect (everything does).\r\nBut I doubt that
    justified versus rag translates to a\r\ndistinction in the <cite>type</cite> of
    story being read.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-07 20:24:46'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"But I doubt that justified versus rag translates to a\r\ndistinction in
    the type of story being read.\"\r\n\r\nIt is useful in signaling or underwriting
    differences in discourse modality in many different contexts.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-07 20:38:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">differences in discourse modality\r\n\r\nDesigners use them together, to
    create contrast and complexity in layouts.\r\nJustified is more likely to be used
    for main text, where it creates a more structured page, which is important considering
    the mess of advertising. Rag is more flexible, used for \"in brief\" snippets,
    and for sidebars and infographics which may have non-standard shapes, eg text
    wrapped round close-cut images."
  created: '2005-12-07 20:48:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Christian, you seem to be treating evenness of word spacing in absolute terms:
    it should be identical on every single line. Why? The purpose of word spaces is
    to delineate the beginning and end of words and so to cue fixations. I can see
    a very good argument for all the spaces on one line to be as even as possible,
    but a slight variance between the word spacing on different lines <em>so long
    as they remain within our functional tolerance*</em> is perfectly defensible.\r\n\r\n*When
    I wrote much earlier in this thread that it is clear that we have a tolerance
    for variation in word spacing, I did not mean, as Hrant seemed to understand me,
    that we have a toleration, i.e. that we put up with it. I meant that we have a
    <em>functional tolerance</em> within which I challenge you to find any significant
    measurable difference in speed or accuracy. Even word spacing is very desirable,
    and this is why we are able to identify bad justification so easily. But this
    evenness is not an absolute, and that is plainly demonstrated by the fact that
    even in ragged right setting the actual white space between words varies depending
    on the letters at the beginning and end of the words. Letters with particularly
    large inherent whitespace, such as T, are best kerned to the wordspace slightly,
    but I have not seen a single typeface or piece of typesetting in which some wordspace-absolutist
    has gone to the trouble of making the optical space between all words on all lines
    identical. We have a functional tolerance for some variation in word spacing,
    and if justification can produce results within this tolerance, then it is good.\r\n\r\nWhen
    it comes to reading, it is fruitless to search for the optimal or the absolute.
    In microtypographic terms, reading is an activity that takes place on a plateau.
    Once one has climbed to a certain level of readability, further typographic refinements
    simply move one horizontally: they alter the terrain (the reading experience)
    but don't actually get you noticeably higher in terms of speed or accuracy. There
    is no peak, no summit to be achieved."
  created: '2005-12-08 06:28:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This thread has been interesting but frustrating, because we have a lot of
    different analyses of the merits of justification vs rag, but no evidence. Can
    we bring evidence to bear, lacking systematic tests? I think we can. Readers,
    including designers, evidently find no big burden in reading either type of text,
    as is evidenced by the fact that they are mixed in the same publication, as has
    been pointed out. \r\n\r\nIn other words, both are so widespread that I don't
    think we can simply dismiss the persistence of justified text by conservatism.
    If readers and designers experienced a big difference, conservative aesthetic
    tastes wouldn't hold them back from demanding and supplying rag text. Thus whatever
    the functional differences--and I do think there are functional differences in
    some circumstances--they must have a small impact. So while I think that the plateau
    which John argues for has some hills and scenery, I think the evidence shows that
    the moutain peak for rag text that some are arguing for is contradicted by the
    reactions of readers."
  created: '2005-12-08 12:46:20'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nThe notion of \"functional tolerance\" is a reasonable one.
    It makes sense.\r\n\r\nAs for the idea of a \"plateau\" of sorts: it has been
    suggested that once an individual has reached a certain level of proficiency,
    they do not read word by word, but rather, phrase by phrase. \r\n\r\nMore food
    for thought. "
  created: '2005-12-08 12:56:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I challenge you to find any significant measurable difference in speed
    or accuracy.\"\r\n\r\nOn several occasions here on Typophile, I have asked for
    data which shows how much better or worse a given typesetting attribute affects
    reading. I have received summary conclusions but never a usable measure. I know
    I am banging my head against the wall but I will ask again in the context of this
    thread:\r\nIf I were to read two 100 page books of the exact same text, with all
    typography exactly the same except one was set rag and one set justified, how
    much faster or slower would I read each than the other?  Having found that out,
    I would ask if that was a significant enough amount of time to be concerned with?\r\nThe
    underlying question is, is it a problem? I might find that the difference is so
    small that it is not an issue.  The same kind of data would be helpful for all
    typesetting variables (sans vs serif, etc.).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-08 14:24:26'
- author:
    name: typofoto
    picture: 109920
  body: "This article is worth reading:\r\n\r\n\u2018The end of the line: a survey
    of unjustified typography\u20191996, in Information Design Journal, 8 (2): 125-152
    by Paul Stiff\r\n\r\nI can't remember exactly what it says, but it does mention
    some research which shows that fixed wordspaces might be better for less able
    readers. \r\n\r\n> I would say this is modernist thinking: that appearance should
    correspond with meaning.\r\n\r\n> But when forced to choose between the macro
    appearance of the text block versus the micro appearance of fixated text, a Modernist
    will go for the former almost all the time.\r\n\r\nA formalist might. But not
    all modernists are formalists, surely.\r\n\r\nIs there a contradiction between
    macro and micro? If you start from the smallest space and work out -- counter
    / letterspace / wordspace / linepace etc, the text as a whole will be readable
    and free from misplaced emphases (rivers, sloppy line endings, etc).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-08 14:50:51'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"data\"\r\n\r\nChris, I doubt the data will be forthcoming because too many
    of the variables not relevant to the issue--but factors in speed--can't be controlled.\r\n\r\nAnother
    problem is that for competant readers the bottleneck is not at the perceptual
    (visual wordform resolution) and mechanical (eye-movement) end, but at the cognitive
    processing or sense-following end. This can be inferred from tests on numbers.\r\n\r\nIf
    we were able to compare the computation costs in the visual cortex in neural activation
    terms of natuaral versus adjusted spacing, we might find something like an inflection
    point, where for a range of adjustments things stay on a plateau, and with more
    dramatic adjustments neural \"work\" increases at a steeper rate.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    testing of neural activity ain't there yet.\r\nKevin's tests on spacing might
    reveal something about spacing that we can hang our sense of the importance of
    space-craft on. From this we might be able to infer ranges of tolerence, and an
    assessment of the impact of justification.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-08 16:31:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have not seen a single typeface or piece of typesetting in which\r\n>
    some wordspace-absolutist has gone to the trouble of making the\r\n> optical space
    between all words on all lines identical.\r\n\r\nAnd you think this is [only]
    because it's a bad idea?\r\nEverybody is lazy to some extent all of the time.\r\n\r\nActually,
    I agree that there are tolerances (although I don't know what they are exactly).
    But in a typical piece of typesetting, justification causes word spaces to go
    way beyond them. So the ability of justification to maintain the tolerances is
    purely hypothetical; it almost never happens. In contrast, the ability of the
    right-rag to maintain the tolerances (for example by not worrying about optically
    equalizing spaces between differently bounded letters around blank spaces) seems
    pretty much assured.\r\n\r\nAnd I would for example point out that people (well,
    at least designers) do in fact complain about the space between the terminal \"f\"
    of a word and the initial \"T\" of the following word being too small.\r\n\r\n>
    There is no peak, no summit to be achieved.\r\n\r\nVery true. But the plateau
    is in fact slightly inclined.\r\nThis doesn't matter all the time, but when you're
    building\r\na tall building, it does.\r\n\r\n> Readers, including designers, evidently
    find no big burden in reading either type of text\r\n\r\nThey also extremely rarely
    report difficulty reading a [good] sans\r\nfor a long time. But you yourself think
    serifs help readability, no?\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t think we can simply dismiss
    the persistence of justified text by conservatism.\r\n\r\nConservatism? When did
    I say that? I blame it in large part on Modernism.\r\n\r\n> The underlying question
    is, is it a problem?\r\n\r\nYour approach would make sense, and the quesion is
    a central one.\r\nBut: different things are a \"problem\" to different people.
    So to\r\nsome extent it's pretty much guaranteed to be a problem.\r\n\r\n> fixed
    wordspaces might be better for less able readers.\r\n\r\nI would instead think
    that it helps proficient\r\nreaders more, if only during immersive reading.\r\n\r\n>
    But not all modernists are formalists, surely.\r\n\r\nI would instead say that
    people are Modernist to different extents.\r\n\r\n> If you start from the smallest
    space and work out\r\n\r\nThe true Modernist goes the other way.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-08 17:24:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">They also extremely rarely report difficulty reading a [good] sans\r\nfor
    a long time. But you yourself think serifs help readability, no?\r\n\r\nGood point,
    but I think practice largely supports me on this point as well. With shorter lines,
    well leaded, sans approach serifs in readability. This is where you find them,
    by and large. For example, if you check the NY Times best seller list, I bet none
    of the novels for many years are in a sans. And I bet you will be hard put to
    find even a non-fiction book in a sans. People are used to reading sans, but they
    don't like it in extended texts."
  created: '2005-12-08 18:03:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they don\u2019t like it in extended texts.\r\n\r\nBut they don't explicitly
    complain about that. In fact when asked which is more legible, people will generally
    choose sans! Especially at the individual letterform level.\r\n\r\nI ascribe the
    tendency to choose a serif face for longer texts to anecdotal experience on the
    part of typographers; heck, THEY don't even really know why serif is more readable!
    But in the case of justification, the <cite>apparent</cite> easthetic Modernist
    appeal of Das Box generally over-rides the smaller (in comparison to serif-versus-sans)
    performance benefit of rag.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-08 18:15:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Peter,\r\nTHANK YOU! That is the most coherent and sensible reply on the
    subject I have yet to hear on Typophile. It makes me wonder what all the fuss
    is about if we clearly are unable to get a useable measurement yet. \r\nI guess
    what I take from this is that typesetters should make formatting decisions primarilly
    on other factors until there is realdata to help decide such things.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-08 18:23:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I have asked for data\r\n\r\nChris, have you come across Colin Weildon's
    book?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1875750223/103-5805148-9591856?v=glance&n=283155\r\n\r\nIt
    ain't lab science, but it is somewhat objective.\r\n\r\nThe daddy of them all
    was Scientific Advertising by Claude Hopkins, who pioneeered the split-run (in
    direct mailing) to test the relative merits of different copy techniques.\r\n\r\nDavid
    Ogilvy also did a few tests at O&M (Confessions of an Ad Man)."
  created: '2005-12-08 18:28:07'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"But in a typical piece of typesetting, justification causes word spaces
    to go way beyond them.\"\r\n\r\nI would have to know what you mean by typical.
    \r\nI have been assuming we are talking about competant or fine typesetting."
  created: '2005-12-08 18:29:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"if you check the NY Times best seller list, I bet none of the novels for
    many years are in a sans.\"\r\n\r\nI am sure that major publishers of novels have
    canned set-ups for their books.  It is just part of their work-flow and makes
    good economic sense.  Since a sans will read no better in a novel than serif,
    what is the impetous to change the work-flow? Even if the sans were to read a
    small amount better, there is no marketable value in changing. I don't think there
    is a soul on this earth, except for type freaks like us, who would select one
    novel to purchase over another just because it was either in a sans or a serif
    typeface. \"If it ain't broke, don't fix it\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-08 18:35:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "FYI, Weildon's work has been roundy trounced by virtually everbody. He's
    the new Cyril Burt - you know, the guy who used to fudge his data to support anecdotal
    opinions...\r\n\r\nThere is no really good data - yet.\r\n\r\nTypical typesetting:
    get some copy, put it in a rectangle, hit Justify. Tweaking the default settings?
    Maybe. But certainly not at the level of individual lines.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-08 18:43:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"have you come across Colin Weildon\u2019s book?\"\r\n\r\nThanks for the
    book tips Nick. I will check them out.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-08 18:47:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, if you want a good book on empirical typographic testing, the high
    water mark is Tinker's \"The Legibility of Print\". But even that hasn't gone
    nearly far enough. Kevin is our main hope now.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-08 18:52:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Weildon\u2019s work has been roundy trounced by virtually everbody.\r\n\r\nSuch
    as?"
  created: '2005-12-08 18:57:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Such as you.\r\nI mean the real you, not the one that pretends\r\nto give
    a hoot about empiricism or readability.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-08 19:06:59'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Typical typesetting: get some copy, put it in a rectangle, hit Justify.
    Tweaking the default settings? Maybe. But certainly not at the level of individual
    lines.\"\r\n\r\nI consider myself a typical and decent typographer.\r\nIn any
    given year I am given miles of copy.\r\nTypically I flow it into a rectangular
    grid, lock to a baseline grid and about 75% of the time I hit justify.\r\n(When
    I set up the typographical specs for the project I dramatically adjusted the default
    settings and did several cycles of testing, often using film output.)\r\nWhen
    I have completed my layout (magazine) or formated the text (book), I scan the
    columns and textblocks for gappy lines and problem paragraphs. I am good at spotting
    problem lines, and if I miss some, my copy-editor will point them out. I usually
    don't open the spacing to fix the problems, I usually tighten within very constrained
    parameters. If problems remain I do my adjustments line by line. If problems still
    remain I ask the editor if anything can be done about it.\r\n\r\nSo when I am
    tweaking type in a justified context, most of my attention is on spacing. Within
    the typographical parameters I have set I believe I can acheive spacing within
    tolerence 99 percent of the time, or better. If not, my specs or the choosen type
    is at fault.\r\n\r\nWhen I am setting unjustified text, I do not have to worry
    about the spacing. I need to worry about line endings and the rag. The amount
    of work is about equal, and about 5 percent of the time I have to be satisfied
    with rags I don't like, even in wide columns.\r\n\r\nIn both cases my perceptual
    processing read-ware picks up the slack without to much complaint.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-08 19:29:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Chris, if you want a good book on empirical typographic testing, the high
    water mark is Tinker\u2019s \u201CThe Legibility of Print\u201D.\"\r\n\r\nHrant,\r\nI
    read that in 1963 when I was in design school.  We had to do readability research
    as part of our typography class at Carnegie Mellon. We also had several lectures
    by Martin Krampen from the HfG Ulm. He was a crossover perceptual psychologist/
    linguist/designer who taught our class for one semester as a visiting professor.
    The second semester we had Gui Bonnsieppe fro Ulm as well. They were both very
    research based to the point of aethetics being completley ignored in teaching
    design. You may have liked them except for the fact that they would fall under
    the dreaded \"Modernist\" label:-)\r\n\r\nMost of Tinker's research was old then.
    \ Do you mean that we have gone nowhere since? \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-08 19:37:49'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: post deleted[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]
  created: '2005-12-08 19:43:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"The amount of work is about equal...\"\r\n\r\nI think you are right.  A
    good typographer wants the job to be well set and takes the time to do it right.
    A well set rag is not a given by default any more than justified text.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-08 19:55:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, I don't think you're typical. And that's a compliment.\r\n\r\n> Do
    you mean that we have gone nowhere since?\r\n\r\nIn terms of <cite>typographic</cite>
    research, I haven't seen anything as methodologically sound as the Patterson and
    Tinker stuff. Mary Dyson has done solid work in the onscreen realm, but most everything
    else has been misguided in proportion to how close it is to answers typographers
    need. See for example Ole Lund's damning review of sans-versus-serif studies.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-08 19:58:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>And you think this is [only] because it\u2019s a bad idea?\r\nEverybody
    is lazy to some extent all of the time.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think it is lazy to
    avoid a labour intensive and time consuming exercise <em>if the payback from all
    that time and labour is insignificant.</em> That isn't laziness, it is just good
    sense."
  created: '2005-12-08 21:15:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It depends on how you define lazy. Like when Franklin says \"Necessity is
    the mother of invention\", I like to add: \"And laziness is its father.\"  But
    I agree it's also good sense.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-08 21:41:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the data will be forthcoming because too many of the variables not relevant
    to the issue\u2014but factors in speed\u2014can\u2019t be controlled.\r\n\r\nThis
    is not a sound objection. Innovative theorizing and experimental design can cut
    through complication. For example I read that Kevin McCarthy reported at ATYPI
    that he was able to distinquish good design by the ability of the readers to apply
    knowledge in the text. \r\n\r\nChris, I don't say my argument is conclusive or
    anything, but I do think that the prevalence of justified text in books is telling.
    Because people are so used to reading sans in other contexts, I don't think it's
    plausible that if there were an economic advantage, or even economic indifference,
    conservatism would be so overwhelming.  "
  created: '2005-12-08 21:50:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"if there were an economic advantage, or even economic indifference\"\r\n\r\nThere
    would have to be a clear economic advantage for publishers to think about switching.
    It just makes good business sense.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-08 22:07:06'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: William, did you mean <a href="http://www.atypi.org/07_Helsinki/30_program/20_main_program/view_presentation_html?presentid=148">this</a>
    Kevin McCarthy?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]
  children:
  - author:
      name: William Berkson
      picture: 110306
    body: "Yes, the one who spells his name Larson. Annoying, that. :)\r\n\r\nSorry
      for messing up the name."
    created: '2005-12-09 20:47:22'
  created: '2005-12-09 20:14:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> the real you, not the one that pretends\r\nto give a hoot about empiricism
    or readability.\r\n\r\nHrant, you really are a piece of **** (that's \"work\",
    BTW) the way you constantly slander people. FYI, I am not a hypocrite.\r\n\r\nNow
    about you, Mr \"expert\" on readability.\r\nWhere is your research? (Reading other
    people's doesn't cut it.)\r\nWhat has been your experience as a typographer?\r\nWhich
    typefaces have you published that have been used for extended text in books, magazines,
    or newspapers?\r\n\r\nYou're a phoney."
  created: '2005-12-09 21:02:46'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Nick and Hrant I suggest sharpened Z's at fourty paces. Pistols and swords
    are so passe
  created: '2005-12-09 21:50:58'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I think you have been innecesarily rude to others in this trhead Hrant.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-12-09 21:51:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">There would have to be a clear economic advantage for publishers to think
    about switching. It just makes good business sense.\r\n\r\nThere are books published
    in sans serif only--just none with extended text that are best sellers. My feeling
    is that there has been a kind of market test, which is a test of readers. Many
    readers feel, evidently, that sans look 'modern' and fashionable, as they now
    have widespread use in advertising. If there were no liability in reading, I think
    we would see sans used in best selling novels and non-fiction books. Also I think
    this is true across languages, which argues even more strongly that it is a matter
    of readability. "
  created: '2005-12-09 21:52:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">there has been a kind of market test, which is a test of readers. \r\n\r\nThat's
    particularly true for those with reading difficulties. I've had a look at the
    selection of large-print books in my local library, with regards to typeface,
    and they're all traditional serifed faces. I don't recall if any were rag right,
    but I think I would have noticed if they had been. "
  created: '2005-12-09 22:10:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Funny, all the large print stuff I have seen is in Arial of all things.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-10 02:00:22'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I remember a series of large print books in a local library set in Clarendon,
    justified with indents and line breaks.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-12-10 09:20:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you really are a piece of **** (that\u2019s \u201Cwork\u201D, BTW)\r\n\r\nOh
    yes, Typophile must have censored \"work\"... and using a custom syntax... and
    not the second one? This is just like those phoney smileys you place on occasion.
    Such a clever boy, calling somebody a piece of ess-h-i-t but denying it to avoid
    certain (one-sided) people calling him \"rude\". And then he says he doesn't like
    being called British.\r\n\r\n> Where is your research? (Reading other people\u2019s
    doesn\u2019t cut it.)\r\n\r\nPlease say that to Peter too.\r\nYou know, the guy
    whose Typo 13 contribution you simply adored.\r\n\r\n> What has been your experience
    as a typographer?\r\n\r\nWhat is Carter's experience as a typographer?\r\nWhat
    do you think of Carter and his work?\r\n\r\n> Which typefaces have you published
    that have been used\r\n> for extended text in books, magazines, or newspapers?\r\n\r\nMaral,
    Ardahan, Kar, Arasan, Nour, Patria.\r\n\r\n> You\u2019re a phoney.\r\n\r\nThat
    table won't flip.\r\n\r\n> I think you have been innecesarily rude\r\n\r\nOn the
    contrary, I've been very gentle. And I haven't been blind, making assumptions
    contrary to everything I've seen and read over the years, giving the benefit of
    the doubt to somebody who isn't friend or family, setting myself up to be duped.\r\n\r\nDon't
    get me wrong, I certainly don't think Nick is a bad person, not at all. But making
    good display fonts implies nothing about a person's other faculties. I learned
    that the hard way almost exactly 5 years ago, when I trusted the judgement of
    another display-font designer who thinks too highly of himself, and suffered -and
    continue to suffer- persecution* not unlike now (although admittedly much worse).
    BTW, this just hit me: is it possible that text font designers are more humble,
    or at least more ambivalent and pensive? If so, maybe it's because they have seen
    the frightening darkness deep down, as opposed to merely dancing merrily on the
    ice, admiring their own reflection underneath... on the surface.\r\n\r\n* For
    example, in another thread Paul said he preferred not to use Mrs Eaves - but the
    Shinnistan troopers stood down.\r\n\r\n> there has been a kind of market test\r\n\r\nYou
    really think publishers have been testing\r\nto see if readers accept sans for
    long texts?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-10 18:29:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"You really think publishers have been testing to see if readers accept
    sans for long texts?\"\r\n\r\nI think publishers do market testing, not legibility
    testing.  Sans end up being used where the publisher feels it fits the market
    better (more high-tech, modern. etc.).\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-10 19:11:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Sans end up being used where the publisher feels it fits the market better\r\n\r\nSure
    - but is that \"testing\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-10 19:17:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> Please say that to Peter too.\r\n\r\nPeter is a working typographer.\r\nYou
    haven't gained any knowledge of readability through working as a typographer,
    typesetter or graphic designer, you haven't done any research on readability,
    and have not published any latin-script typefaces to test the typographic community's
    response to your theories-in-practice.\r\n\r\nAnd yet you denigrate my text faces
    (many commissioned, many published, many licensed, and read by millions) by calling
    me a \"display type designer\". Well sure, I've done a few of those too, which
    you claim to admire -- damning with faint praise.\r\n\r\n>everything I\u2019ve
    seen and read over the years\r\n\r\nExactly. No practical experience.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are going to call me a hypocrite because you (wrongly) believe that my interest
    in readability is not borne out by my typographic output, I suggest you look in
    the mirror and ask yourself what practical efforts your theories have led to.\r\n\r\nWhen
    are you going to stop riding second-hand on other people's efforts, stop your
    interminable hammering away at the same old agenda, and engage the real world?\r\n\r\n>humble\r\n\r\nHrant,
    your pride is constantly on display, as you pat yourself on the back for being
    a fighter, and insult people left right and centre without apologizing. So Hector
    says you've been rude in this thread, and your typical macho response is Huh,
    that was me being gentle! \r\n"
  created: '2005-12-10 19:26:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Peter is a working typographer.\r\n\r\nYou were talking about a certain
    definition of \"research\", which you implied was required to claim expertise
    in readability. Peter and I are no different in that respect. And you know it.
    And Carter has very little experience in typography, but do you think he doesn't
    know what he's talking about? You dodged that question once, but type designers
    -text type designers- are nothing if not persistent...\r\n\r\n> Exactly. No practical
    experience.\r\n\r\nI was talking about you. Practical experience?\r\nDo I need
    to marry you to have opinions about you?\r\nWhat \"practical experience\" do you
    have with me\r\nthat you can state I'm a \"clueless idiot\"?\r\n\r\n> that was
    me being gentle!\r\n\r\nRelative to my standards, not yours. And relative\r\nto
    your standards you probably think you're being\r\ntotally honest, fair and honorable.\r\n\r\nSuch
    a clever boy, distracting from the real issues.\r\nWell, I have to admit, it does
    work with some people.\r\nBut I'm not Nick enough to leverage that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-10 19:35:03'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "This may be off-topic now, but with respect to ragged text, some contriubtors
    to this thread (and others) have said that indentation doesn't look quite right
    with ragged-right paragraphs. A bit of leading will do instead.\r\n\r\nIs this
    advisable? I recall that Tschichold (or was it Gill?) commented that only the
    slightest marker need be made to indicate a new paragraph.\r\n\r\nSo, when dealing
    with long tracts of text, should one indent, or employ a bit of leading to indicate
    a new paragraph?\r\n\r\nThoughts? "
  created: '2005-12-10 20:14:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Relative to my standards, not yours.\r\n\r\nHrant, rudeness is not determined
    by a private standard set by you or me. It is what a society evolves as proper
    courtesy. Frankly, I think your comments are rude by the standards of any society
    I've ever spent time in. If you want to be rude, that is your decision. But don't
    be too surprised if your complaints about getting the same back don't meet with
    a lot of sympathy. "
  created: '2005-12-10 20:18:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>So, when dealing with long tracts of text, should one indent, or employ
    a bit of leading to indicate a new paragraph?</em>\r\n\r\nBe a real man: use a
    pilcrow  :)"
  created: '2005-12-10 20:33:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> rudeness ... is what a society evolves as proper courtesy.\r\n\r\nIndeed.
    But you misgauge <cite>this</cite> society. It is not any of our\r\nlittle villages.
    I thought you had finally figured that out.\r\n\r\nFor example, in my village,
    calling somebody a piece of ess-h-i-t but covering it up is really bad, in fact
    worse than calling him that and <cite>not</cite> covering it up. BUT, I don't
    complain about that; I only complain when somebody is one-sided. And most of all,
    I don't raise complaining to an artform. That also happens to be a Bad Thing in
    my village.\r\n\r\nTo me, Fairness is much more important than Tact. But I don't
    expect that of anybody else, even if frankly I do try to get others to be more
    like me. I don't throw primadonna hissy-fits, complain to the managers in the
    background, threaten to leave, leave and come back, keep whining and posturing,
    etc. I find those things... rude.\r\n\r\n> don\u2019t be too surprised if your
    complaints about getting\r\n> the same back don\u2019t meet with a lot of sympathy.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not surprised. I've been surrounded by provincial\r\nthinking in many parts of
    the world since childhood.\r\n\r\nThis is a predominantly western environment
    here (mostly for reasons of relative affluence), so I totally expect the pretend-to-be-nice
    angle to show up more than the brutally-honest one. Fortunately for me, and for
    type, it's not so much a western environment that you can generally get your way.
    Ergo: don't complain in vain, it distracts from the content.\r\n\r\n> use a pilcrow\r\n\r\nI
    second that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-10 20:52:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">You dodged that question once,\r\n\r\nOK, let me try again.\r\nThe topic
    is readability.\r\nNow, most people can read, and one can also read about readability.\r\nThat's
    a start.\r\nBut knowledge without experience doesn't count for much, especially
    in a practical discipline like typography.\r\nThere are many ways to get experience
    of readability, ie to advance ideas by testing them in practice, get feedback,
    and hence acquire wisdom.\r\nFor instance, Kevin Larson tests his ideas in scientific
    experiments.\r\nPeter Enneson is a typographer who has set a ton of type in umpteen
    faces, every which way to Christmas. He knows how to make publications readable.\r\nMatthew
    Carter's fonts are everywhere, so he has had ample opportunity to see which ones
    are successful, both commercially, and by his own standards.\r\n\r\nYou've had
    some experience with Armenian fonts, and the odd thing has been set in Patria,
    which will presumably be your first latin type design, although the type has not
    been published. I'm not discounting the relevance of your Armenian work, but the
    type market and type community here on Typophile is mainly using the Latin alphabet,
    and few of us are qualified to assess its merits (Armenian, that is). \r\n\r\nI'm
    sure I speak for more than myself when I say, when are you going to stop theorizing
    about readability, and put your theories into practice?!\r\n\r\nFor myself, I
    would also like you to do that, because I believe that part of the reason you
    are so bitter is because you feel you are an outsider. This has nothing to do
    with your ethnicity, which you hide behind. When you have published one or two
    typefaces, you will feel less animosity to the rest of us who have the usual practical
    experience (see above), and hopefully will not be continually dissing your favorite
    whipping boy."
  created: '2005-12-10 21:00:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">calling somebody a piece of ess-h-i-t\r\n\r\nActually, the word that first
    came to mind was \"scum\", but I thought I'd make it a little joke, y'know, like
    your thing about the busty blonde.\r\n\r\nBTW, I never start the dissing, I'm
    always countering your venom. "
  created: '2005-12-10 21:03:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The topic is readability.\r\n\r\nNo it isn't. And you know it isn't. One
    of the topics -the one you've dodged twice now- is: do you need to be a proficient
    typographer to design good fonts? You previously implied that's the case. But
    when I brought up Carter, you started dodging. You're so obsessed with striking
    me down that you say stupid things*. What's funny is, saying stupid things is
    how you got yourself into this mess.\r\n\r\n* And there's a pattern here. Don't
    ask Gerry about Greek type?!\r\n\r\n> when are you going to stop theorizing about
    readability,\r\n> and put your theories into practice?!\r\n\r\nBut I'm already
    doing it! The thing is, you're not\r\ncapable of seeing it - your reflection is
    in the way.\r\n\r\n> part of the reason you are so bitter is because you feel
    you are an outsider.\r\n\r\nI certainly am an outsider, and I always will be.
    Indeed, it has nothing to do with my ethnicity, it has everything to do with my
    nature. A nature that, among other things, precludes your faults. But I'm not
    bitter, I just have allergic reactions to posers and bad craft. And I'm on really
    good terms with a lot of other people here* to the point of considering them Friends
    - but of course your coping mechanism will prevent you from accepting that. BTW,
    joining your perceived little club (which I would never do) would be nothing less
    than an insult.\r\n\r\n* Including people YOU are also on great terms with. How
    do you explain that?\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m always countering your venom.\r\n\r\n1)
    False.\r\n2) Get over it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-10 21:22:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">> I\u2019m always countering your venom.\r\n>1) False.\r\n\r\nWell, not
    always, that would be a full-time job\r\n\r\n>2) Get over it.\r\nSorry, you don't
    have carte blanche to insult me.\r\nCheck this thread, and you will see that you
    started it, as usual, by calling me a hypocrite:\r\n\"the real you, not the one
    that pretends to give a hoot about empiricism or readability.\"\r\nWhen will you
    learn that such insensitivity is hurtful and socially unacceptable, not, as you
    seem to believe, a virtue?\r\n\r\n>But I\u2019m already doing it!\r\n\r\nThen
    let's see some pdfs on your web site, demonstrating how you put the principals
    into practice. And yeah, join the club of real type foundries that actually publish
    fonts."
  created: '2005-12-10 22:21:09'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Hrant is right. My efforts at providing the typographical community with a
    model of perceptual processing in reading relevant to their efforts and compatable
    with their attunements should be subjected to the same scrutiny as his.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]
  created: '2005-12-10 22:53:07'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>some contriubtors to this thread (and others) have said that indentation
    doesn\u2019t look quite right with ragged-right paragraphs. A bit of leading will
    do instead.</em>\r\n\r\nAs one of the posters who said that, I suppose I should
    stand by it. With justified text a slight marker, whether a pilcrow or a small
    indent (and combined with the short measure that ends the line above), is enough
    to indicate the step from one paragraph to another. On the other hand with right
    ragged there is such interference from the rag that an indent is not as obvious.
    I think that a quick scan through this thread reveals the efficacy of a line space.
    Ultimately though the answer is whatever serves the reader best.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-12-11 10:49:34'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Even with a fairly well-controlled rag, the indent seems to get a bit lost.\r\n\r\nSome
    leading (as opposed to a full line space) looks quite nice. Although for an actual
    book with facing pages, leading would throw off the register. No?"
  created: '2005-12-11 16:52:28'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Also, think of the effect a full or half line space whould have in a newspaper
    page or magazine spread setting.\r\n\r\nI generally only use full or half-line
    spacing with unjustified texts when the material is point form, never in continuous
    expository text. The breaks between the paragraphs make them seem to self-enclosed
    and don't reflect sufficiently their lexical dependencies on the paragaph before
    and after. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-11 17:27:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the indent seems to get a bit lost.\r\n\r\nThinking about how an indent
    actually works, I wonder if this is merely a macro phenomenon, and inconsequential
    during actual use: when the reader does a line-return at the end of a paragraph,
    and naturally ends up smack on top of the indent, won't he simply know what happened
    even if the indent is small? On the other hand, I can see how potential macro
    confusion could be relevant during a scan/search task (as opposed to reading).
    But how common is that, and how much does the user actually suffer?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-11 17:55:12'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "When it comes to ranged-left/ragged-right alignment, I find the commonly
    used one-em indentation of the first paragraph line insufficient. In order to
    work, it better be significantly deeper. To me, the practice of <em>Typographische
    Monatsbl\xE4tter</em> of 1970s is a good model. And, of course, they never set
    the first paragraph after a heading without indentation when they used r-l/r-r
    alignment.\r\n\r\nIn my own work I often use half-line paragraph spacing in r-l/r-r
    setting. In justified setting my preference is for paragraph indentation equal
    to line spacing (no indentation after headings, though)."
  created: '2005-12-11 18:11:16'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"merely a macro phenomenon\" \r\n\"inconsequential during actual use\"\r\n\r\nWhile
    awareness of paragraph structure might play little or no role in discrete foveal
    visual word form resolutional events, I suspect visual paragraph-boundary cueing
    in the peripheral field plays a significant role in sense-following during immersive
    reading.\r\n\r\nNothing mere about macro.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-11 20:57:53'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Nothing mere about macro.\r\n\r\nI certainly agree; I gave some guesses
    above on how the macro might influence the micro. These may be right or not, but
    I am pretty confident that the marcro plays an important role, for this reason:
    we always scan the macro page first--except maybe if there's a carry over hyphenated
    word. Then after catching the word or first line, we look at the whole page. I
    don't think the brain consistently makes moves that are functionally useless.
    Since this is so consistent, I think it must be an important factor.\r\n\r\nAnd
    that is basically why justified type holds sway in longer texts, I think, in spite
    of the damage it does to word spacing.  \r\n"
  created: '2005-12-12 05:37:56'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "At several points in the thread the term 'subconscious' has been bandied
    about.  Here's the thing: When you write subconscious you seem to be suggesting
    that your model of the human mind hails from a Jungian form ( muddy at best )
    or a new-age offshoot of a Jungian model ( usually even muddier still ). \r\n\r\nPrior
    to Jung, Freud used to the term unconscious. To Jung the unconscious was a term
    applied to 'the collective'. The Subconcsious was a term appling to an individual.
    \r\n\r\n<cite>\"1912 FREUD in Proc. Soc. Psychical Res. XXVI. LVI. 315 The term
    unconscious, which was used in the purely descriptive sense before, now comes
    to imply something more. It designates not only latent ideas in general, but especially
    ideas with a certain dynamic character, ideas keeping apart from consciousness
    in spite of their intensity and activity. 1925 C. E. M. JOAD Mind & Matter iv.
    111 This greater part is known as the unconscious mind, or simply as \u2018the
    unconscious\u2019. The theory of the unconscious is based mainly on the work of..Freud.\"
    </cite>-OED\r\n\r\n<cite>\"The personal unconscious, of which I also speak as
    the \u2018subconscious\u2019, in contrast to the absolute or collective unconscious,
    contains forgotten memories, suppressed..painful ideas..apperceptions sometimes
    described as below the threshold (subliminal). - Jung\" </cite>- OED\r\n\r\nWhen
    you write 'subconscious' I can guess that you probably mean to refer to some process
    occuring in the mind without the mind being consciously aware of it - but then
    thats what 'unconscious' means. I am not saying that we all have to be Freudian.
    But the Freudian model of the mind is the one I think you are working with ( Conscious
    & Unconscious mind) rather than the Jungian one ( Anima and Animus, The shadow,
    Synchronicity etc.)\r\n\r\nOf course there is also the popular conflation of the
    terms but ultimately I think the intent of the writers use in each case was to
    urge or suggest a more scientific or analytical perspective or tendency; in which
    case I suggest 'unconscious' is the term of choice because it means something
    more precise. 'Subconscious' is all about the waving of hands and pop psychology.\r\n\r\nOf
    course you might mean something that is almost but not quite conscious. In which
    case 'Subliminal' might be the word..."
  created: '2005-12-12 05:48:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "About Macro--now that I think of it, didn't Kevin Larson actually test the
    influence of good marcro design on readability--can someone report about his paper
    at ATYPI? Did it include justified text?\r\n\r\nps. I don't think use of the term
    'subconscious' implies any acceptance of Freud's or Jung's controversial theories.
    The Oxford concise defines 'subconscious' as \"concerning that part of the mind
    which is not fully conscious but influences actions etc.\" Hrant is using the
    term correctly!"
  created: '2005-12-12 14:44:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Hrant is using the term correctly!\"\r\n\r\nLOL :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-12 15:59:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Unconscious\" can't work because it sort of implies dumb.\r\n\r\n> we always
    scan the macro page first\r\n\r\nYes, one sees many beautiful women in the street.
    But it's when you start spending time with one that the reality, the relevance,
    comes out. And then there's marriage, for which thankfully I can't think of a
    parallel in typography.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-12 17:13:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"And then there\u2019s marriage, for which thankfully I can\u2019t think
    of a parallel in typography. :-)\"\r\n\r\nA description would be unjustified.
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-12 17:46:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good one! Ragged it sometimes is.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-12 18:28:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: <a href="http://www.typography.net/type/bliss.htm">Or this.</a>
  created: '2005-12-12 18:33:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Yes, one sees many beautiful women in the street.\" \r\n\r\nFormatting
    issues on a macro level are not first and foremost about aesthetics, they are
    as much about navigability, orientation, and cueing the immersive reader <em>while
    he or she is immersed</em> to breaks in the unfolding of an argument or plot.
    And the cueing is sub-attentive. \r\n\r\n(I am concerned to counter the impression
    that macro issues are about asthetics, inconsequentialities, and in the conscious
    domain, and microtypographical issues are about functionality / readability and
    in the subattentive domian.)\r\n\r\nI'm wondering if you acknowledge this Hrant.
    I take it many on this thread do. Isn't the beautiful blond(e) a red herring?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-12 18:43:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Of course macro matters. Everything matters.\r\nBut she certainly is distracting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-12 18:50:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> \u201CUnconscious\u201D can\u2019t work because it sort of implies dumb.\r\n\r\nThis
    is a mistake. There is of course Unconscious as in knocked out or asleep but also
    there is the historical meaning - the part of the mind that is not consciously
    accessible. And thats probably what you mean. And what do you mean by 'dumb' anyway?
    \ Thats a term that can mean many things. What Unconscious doesn't mean is 'no
    mind at all'. That would be Nonconscious.\r\n\r\n>  accept\r\n\r\nI am not saying
    that anybody should accept any theory in it's entirety. What I am saying is that
    there are differences in the theoretical models and the models persist ouside
    of the details of the theories. Jung's model probably isn't the one you probably
    are working off of when you say 'subconscious'. You are probably working of of
    Freud's. Working off a model doesn't imply wholesale acceptance of a theory. In
    fact, nobody is swallowing Freud's theory in toto today. Not even the most ardent
    Freudians. And they do exist. But on the other hand we are all still using his
    model of the mind. The only people still trafficing in Jung's model - by design
    or not - are Humanities professors. \r\n\r\nAll I am really saying is that there
    are models out there & when you write 'subconscious' I don't know for sure what
    model you mean to use. I can guess given popular use but it's a vague way of communicating.
    When you write unconscious it's clear.\r\n\r\nNow that I think about it, Hrant
    does like to regard type as masculine & feminine which is Jungian & not at all
    analytical or scientific."
  created: '2005-12-13 00:37:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t know for sure what model you mean to use.\r\n\r\nI guess I'm
    not using a formal model. I tend to base my terminological choices on what I think
    the \"audience\" reads into the terms. I do this by observing and thinking. For
    example, I believe that \"unconscious\" conveys an element of ignorance, while
    immersive reading has none of that; \"subconscious\" does not convey any ignorance
    - it does convey \"hidden\" which is in fact great; as for \"non-conscious\",
    that's not as bad as \"unconscious\", but negativisms generally make for bad terminology
    (think of how disliked the term \"non-Latin\" rightly is). Also, psychologists
    -at least ones who don't have the sense to realize I'm not addressing them in
    particular- are not a big part of the audience here, so I don't have to worry
    about Freud versus Jung versus Santa Claus.\r\n\r\n> Hrant does like to regard
    type as masculine & feminine\r\n> which is Jungian & not at all analytical or
    scientific.\r\n\r\nI like to regard a bunch of other things that way too! And
    a big chunk of life is \"unscientific\", so... Don't discount intuition, \"common
    sense\" and the unquantifiable. Those are, after all, what make us most human.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 01:14:12'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "This is fantastic! \r\n\r\nWe've gone from the nuances of setting justified
    vs. ragged type, to breasts, to an interesting little feud, to Jungian theory."
  created: '2005-12-13 04:17:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It's wonderful to hear Hrant defend the unquantifiable & intuition. Cool.\r\n\r\n>
    \ I\u2019m not using a formal model\r\n\r\nPerhaps not deliberately, but you are
    assuming a commonly accepted ( freudian ) model of some sort.  If you realize
    it or not is another question. Maybe you are not conscious of doing it. ;-) I
    don't think it makes you repressed though. ( double wink ) The point is that there
    is an intellectual history. \r\n\r\nIf I talk about the middle class that doesn't
    make me a Marxist. But the idea of class is Marx's. You don't have to subscribe
    to all of Marx's ideas to think that he made interesting points or to think some
    of his ideas are intellectually useful. \r\n\r\n> \u201Csubconscious\u201D does
    not convey any ignorance - it does convey \u201Chidden\u201D which is in fact
    great. \r\n\r\nHrant, I will be content to disagree. I think both terms conveigh
    the idea of hidden - one does it better & more precisely than the other. \r\n\r\nAnyway
    I will drop now it since as Christian R. Szabo gently reminds me - it's off topic.
    Or start a new thread if Hrant want me to. And I do admit that english changes
    as a result of use. Jazz means new things every 20 years."
  created: '2005-12-13 05:00:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Eben, thanks for bringing this up. Several times over the past couple of
    years when Hrant has spoken of the 'subconscious' I've been tempted to challenge
    him to prove the existence of this, um, thing. But I think Hrant is tired of my
    challenging him to do things. :)\r\n\r\nI don't think I believe in the subconscious."
  created: '2005-12-13 07:41:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I don\u2019t think I believe in the subconscious.\r\n\r\nLooking on the
    internet, 'subconscious' does not seem to be a technical term in psychology, except
    for psychoanalysis. However, it is used commonly for any mental process we are
    unaware of that affects us, as the Oxford Concise definition indicates. So while
    there may be a better term for those features of a typeface that affect the reader
    unawares--such as Eben's suggestion 'subliminal'--the term 'subconscious' is not
    a misuse of words. \r\n\r\nAlfred Adler's objection to Freud's notion of the unconscious
    was that it is too much like a \"demon from the deep\" which comes up and acts
    on its own. Adler believed strongly in the importance of the unconscious in emotional
    psychology, but expressed its role in his phrase \"we know more than we understand.\"
    By this, he meant that our feelings and actions are organized around purposes
    that we may not understand ourselves--such as proving we are better than the other
    fellow by defeating him in argument! In this sense, I do believe in 'subconscious'
    purposes. \r\n\r\nAlso for seriously disturbed persons, such as those suffering
    from delusions, Freud's \"demon from the deep\" may not be so far off base. But
    for people in the more normal range, I think Adler has it more right. "
  created: '2005-12-13 12:38:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am going back on my promise - sorry. \r\n\r\n>I don\u2019t think I believe
    in the subconscious.\r\n\r\nJohn, Do you not think the mind is busy doing things
    it is not conscious of? Or is it that the idea of the subconscious isn't substantial.
    Or something else altogether? \r\n\r\nJust in case it's the 1st case let me ask
    you this: Doesn't visual research show us that the mind busily fills in gaps in
    our vision ( litterally ) so our universe seems more coherent? If you want I can
    dig up an article of some kind & email it to you. Reading is similarly is a skill
    that is so ingrained that it allows us to loose focus on what we are doing in
    a litteral sense so that we can concentrate on the meaning of what we read. And
    then there is driving. Sometimes that activity can dip below conscious thought
    without stopping or killing you. That is just immersive activity. \r\n\r\nBut
    it suggest to me that yes, there could be a part of the mind that we don't recognize
    conscously that nevertheless does important work. I don't pretend to be able to
    charcterize that part of the mind but I think the idea seems sound as a working
    idea. And again, it's an idea descended from Freud. An idea ( according to me
    ) best refered to as 'the unconscious' as you already know.\r\n\r\n>demon from
    the deep\r\n\r\nThats a quibble with a charctacterization not with the basic model.\r\n\r\n>
    we know more than we understand\r\n\r\nA recharacterization of Freud's model -
    but not a new model.\r\n\r\n> psychoanalysis\r\n\r\nPsychoanalysis is a form of
    psychiatry not psychology - but it obviously influenced both professions. And
    almost nobody outside of some folks in NYC and it's enviorons practice it anymore.
    It isn't the professional term of art I am interested in but the intellectual
    model in use by the public - or the lack of one.\r\n\r\nAnd none of this need
    be about belief. I am not interested in scoring points or promoting a dogma. I
    am advocating intellectual clarity & precision. That clarity can coexist perfectly
    with an open or even a skeptical point of view. \r\n\r\nMoreover when I quip about
    Hrant defending intuition it's because I am curious. On the one hand he decrys
    an arty approach to type design by 'aaartists' I think he said (or something similar).
    But then he promotes 'intuition' - a very fruity arty sort of idea. I don't fault
    him for it. Holding two seemingly contradictory ideas firmly in firmly in mind
    doesn't make you a hypocrite  - it is a necesary state. For instance, the world
    looks flat & the sun seems to go around the earth. I know that's not the case
    but I also know it does look that way. So I am still interested in how he resolves
    what looks to me (superficially) like a contradiction.\r\n\r\nAlso, I don't really
    buy the Jungian opposition of the intuitive female arty & the male scientific
    & rational. It strikes me as a model that obscures more than it reveals."
  created: '2005-12-13 13:27:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "\"A quibble\" \"not a new model\"\r\n\r\nAdler acknowledged that he was developing
    ideas original with Freud, but his views seem to me significantly different from
    Freud. Adler's differences with Freud on the nature of the unconscious are reflected
    in a different way of understanding psychology of the emotions, and their impact
    on action. The differences are not important for the psychology of reading--nor
    are Freud's views for that matter.    "
  created: '2005-12-13 13:48:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Are we not talking about unconscious as just meaning things we see or do
    that we are either not aware of or not controlling by deliberate decision? As
    readers, we may be conscious of our deciphering of words on the page but we are
    unconscious of the saccadic eye movements or any of the connective processes that
    transform image of glyphs on a page to meaning in the mind. I don't see any value
    in philosophical differences in Psychotherapists in the reading equation.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-13 15:11:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"used commonly for any mental process we are unaware of that affects us\"\r\n\r\nUnless
    we have been made aware of them through disciplined probing we are unaware of
    the neurophysical, motor, attentional and anticipatory mechanisms underlying perceptual
    processing in reading. They remain hidden.\r\n\r\nMy complaint with calling all
    of this 'subconscious' is that that might obsure the identity and specificity
    of these mechanisms, keep veiled in mystery their actual functioning, or deflect
    attention away from their proper scrutiny. Yet an important factor in all these
    mechanisms is that they proceed without overt deliberation. \r\n\r\nWhere I agree
    with Hrant is that it a mark of responsible action in the type-design domain to
    be mindful of these underlying processes that proceed without deliberative effort,
    because they are more determinative of, or foundational to, readability than questions
    of aesthetics might be. "
  created: '2005-12-13 15:14:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">are more determinative of, or foundational to, readability than questions
    of aesthetics\r\n\r\nPeter, I think you may be separating readability and aesthetics
    a bit too much. I suspect in some cases they may have common foundations. For
    example, the eye seems more sensitive to verticals being out of true than horizontals.
    This is probably because a beam or tree that is leaning can fall on our heads,
    so seeing 'leaning' is a survival trait. But then 'vertical' gets the emotional
    overlay of being strong, \"upright,\" honest, and has an aesthetic dimension.
    But at the same time, because of the survival aspect, our brains are I think wired
    to quickly see verticals, so they may be slightly more efficient--eg roman vs
    italic. \r\n\r\nAll of this is speculation, of course, but it has enough plausibility
    to me that I don't think one should assume that aesthetics and quick recognition
    are completely separate matters.   "
  created: '2005-12-13 16:49:29'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"I think you may be separating readability and aesthetics a bit too much.
    I suspect in some cases they may have common foundations.\"\r\n\r\nThanks for
    pointing this out William. I think you are right.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-13 17:11:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">they may have common foundations\r\n\r\nLe style, c'est l'homme."
  created: '2005-12-13 17:45:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> but you are assuming a commonly accepted ( freudian ) model\r\n\r\nCommon
    accepted by whom? The people I'm addressing? I have to doubt it.\r\n\r\n> Maybe
    you are not conscious of doing it.\r\n\r\nGood one.  :-)\r\n\r\n> But the idea
    of class is Marx\u2019s.\r\n\r\nNot if a person had the idea independently.\r\nBeing
    born earlier is just dumb luck.\r\n\r\n>  I think Hrant is tired of my challenging
    him to do things. :)\r\n\r\nConveniently, I disagree.  :-)\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t
    think I believe in the subconscious.\r\n\r\nWow. I can understand arguing about
    what to call it, and certainly what it is, but saying it doesn't exist is just...
    scary. Perhaps there's a religious impediment? The good news is that you seem
    to be leaving room to change your mind. I hope you do.\r\n\r\n> \u2018intuition\u2019
    - a very fruity arty sort of idea.\r\n\r\nHey, I like certain fruits. But I'm
    no vegetarian. Kbbeh nayeh is just too good. As I've said before, Art is an integral
    part of mankind - without it we would go crazy, or at least become Discovery Channel
    fodder. My problem is when self-expression becomes an explicit purpose in the
    act of Design, where instead serving others is the more honorable goal.\r\n\r\n>
    I don\u2019t really buy the Jungian opposition of the\r\n> intuitive female arty
    & the male scientific & rational. \r\n\r\nI myself am unlcear on exactly what
    makes for masculinity or feminity (and I don't expect to ever really figure it
    out). But the important thing to admit and work with is that the two are different*.
    The trick is to use that understanding to help people, not to strike them down.
    Leverage the difference, celebrate the variety.\r\n\r\n* In fact the brain structures
    are known to be different.\r\n\r\nLe style? C'est infentile.\r\nHey, I'm a poet!
    Should I start wearing pink?  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 18:12:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "One thing that I find most fascinating about the conscious versus subconscious
    realms is that there is a migration from the former to the latter. When we do
    something often enough, it becomes (at least in part) a subconscious thing. Think
    of how some people report physically trying to hit Command-Z after breaking a
    cup; I myself have tried to see behind me by looking to the left... at the mirror
    of my motorcycle, that isn't there. And once I tried to slide the pointer off
    the monitor to something on the table (I was trying to point something out to
    a coworker) and for a fraction of a second -long enough to utter a profanity-
    actually got frustrated why the damn thing wouldn't go beyond the bottom-left
    corner of the screen!\r\n\r\nBut something changes, or at least can change, when
    the migration happens. For example in reading we got from compiling individual
    letters to leveraging the parafovea and taking in (greater-than-letter) boumas.\r\n\r\nHow
    does this migration work?\r\nIt seems Extremely Relevant.\r\nAnd goddam fascinating.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 18:21:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">When we do something often enough, it becomes (at least in part) a subconscious
    thing\r\n\r\nMy old teacher Popper wrote about this phenomenon. His view was that
    everything that can become routine, does, and goes unconscious. Consciousness
    is to deal with what is not routine, what is changing in the moment. In fact,
    that is the main function of consciousness, and if I remember rightly he conjectures
    that consciousness evolved because of this need. \r\n\r\nI agree with you this
    question of the interaction of conscious and unconscious, and the switchbetween
    the two is really fascinating. How about that, we agree on something!\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 18:35:40'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: ">Not if a person had the idea independently.\r\n>Being born earlier is just
    dumb luck.\r\n\r\nEven if someone never read Marx, or even knows who he was, the
    idea he/she will have of 'class' will most likely have been influenced by Marx's,
    because his concepts are widespread, even if in diluted or distorted versions.
    Same applies for Jung and Freud. One can't ignore that their ideas are everywhere,
    at least in western society, and we \"learn\" them from outside sources, even
    if in a quite \"un-conscious\" manner."
  created: '2005-12-13 18:38:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Hmmm. Now that I think of it, that is probably what is going on with the 'macro'
    look at the page before reading. We have a conscious glance at the page, and it
    immediately goes unconscious and is incorporated into our subconscious mechanism
    for scanning the page. Hence the advantage of justified text :-)
  created: '2005-12-13 18:41:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I came across some research (done at MIT, I think) a decade at least ago,
    which I have always remembered -- sort of, because I've forgotten who did it,
    and can't find it.\r\n\r\nAnyway, the researcher did a dozen or so experiments
    to determine the duration of consciousness, ie the shortest and longest time-spans
    that one can be aware of consciously.\r\n\r\nThe shortest was determined by playing
    two notes close together in time, shortening the distance, until it wasn't possible
    to determine whether it was one or two notes.\r\n\r\nI forget what the \"longest'
    experiments were, but the result was 4 seconds. After that, it's all memory. \r\n\r\nThat
    4-second duration must have some bearing on reading. Presumably typography helps
    by increasing the amount that can be perceived in that \"macro-look' time frame.\r\n\r\nAnyone
    know of that research? or follow-ups?"
  created: '2005-12-13 18:55:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> consciousness evolved because of this need.\r\n\r\nI like that.\r\n\r\n>
    the idea he/she will have of \u2018class\u2019 will\r\n> most likely have been
    influenced by Marx\u2019s\r\n\r\nThat's a good point.\r\n\r\n> We have a conscious
    glance at the page, and it immediately goes\r\n> unconscious and is incorporated
    into our subconscious mechanism\r\n> for scanning the page.\r\n\r\nBut maybe much
    of it gets discarded, basically because it's useless?\r\nThe subconscious is nothing
    if not brutally efficient.\r\n\r\n\r\n> I have always remembered \u2014 sort of,
    because I\u2019ve forgotten who did it\r\n\r\nHuh, reminds me of Cohen: \"I can't
    forget that I can't remember why.\"\r\nGreat line, that.\r\n\r\n> I forget what
    the \u201Clongest\u2019 experiments were, but the result was 4 seconds.\r\n\r\nInteresting.\r\nI
    too would be interesting in finding that research.\r\n\r\n> Presumably typography
    helps by increasing the amount\r\n> that can be perceived in that \u201Cmacro-look\u2019
    time frame.\r\n\r\nOr maybe good typography takes into account how\r\nlittle relative
    relevance that period can have.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 19:12:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> Presumably typography helps by increasing the amount\r\n> that can be perceived
    in that \u201Cmacro-look\u2019 time frame.\r\n\r\nIn comparison to writing.\r\n\r\nAn
    interesting experiment would be to see if someone could read their own writing
    as fast/well as a text typeface. That would require making a good script font
    of the writing, or finding a good calligraphic impersonator, to make fresh text
    the writer hadn't written."
  created: '2005-12-13 19:50:36'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "ns: \"Presumably typography helps by increasing the amount that can be perceived
    in that \u201Cmacro-look\u2019 time frame.\"\r\n\r\nhpp: \"Or maybe good typography
    takes into account how little relative relevance that period can have.\"\r\n\r\nFour
    seconds eh? About the time it takes to saccade our way through a sixteen word[13]
    sentence[14]--no[15] regressions[16]. Each sentence a complete thought. (And then
    there's the average length of my compound sentences.)\r\n\r\nHrant, don't let
    your subconscious reaction to Nick's contributions blind you.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-13 20:01:40'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "I wouldn't be able to read some of my own handwriting, even if it were rendered
    into a script font -- Arial narrow would win out (in readability) every time.
    ;)\r\n\r\nK.\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 20:06:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But maybe much of it gets discarded, basically because it\u2019s useless?\r\nThe
    subconscious is nothing if not brutally efficient.\r\n\r\nHrant, I think you're
    forgetting that reading is not just getting the meaning of individual words quickly,
    but interaction with the information and ideas of the author. I believe this is
    where Kevin Larson found the difference. The people who read the same material
    with good typography were able to better use what they read--a proof of better
    comprehension. And this makes sense as good typographic lay out is a lot about
    matching the visual structure to the information and ideas in the text. \r\n\r\nThe
    ragged vs justified isn't about structure, but the 'macro' look is a lot about
    structure, as well as maybe where the text is in the visual field. \r\n\r\nOn
    identifying where the text block is, and begins and ends. There is good evidence
    that we are amazingly good at using this information. Images bounce all around
    the back of the eye, but the brain sees a fixed scene out there in the world,
    where an amateur movie of the same scene will have the picture jumping all over
    the place, with our eyes unable to correct. So discard this useless information?
    No way. "
  created: '2005-12-13 20:08:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> In comparison to writing.\r\n\r\nOh, OK. But also good/bad typography -
    why not?\r\n\r\n> to see if someone could read their own writing as fast/well
    as a text typeface.\r\n\r\nThat would indeed be interesting. And ironically it
    would depend on how fast/well the person wrote the stuff! :-)  I know I have trouble
    reading my own handwriting (more than a few hours after I've written something)
    in a way that I never do with typographic material.\r\n\r\nThe effects of Familiarity
    are really greatly limited.\r\nProbably because we're so good at adapting.\r\n\r\n>
    Hrant, don\u2019t let your subconscious reaction to Nick\u2019s contributions\r\n\r\nMaybe
    we should ASSUME that I don't care...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 20:23:54'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I think we should ASSUME that I don\u2019t care\u2026\r\n\r\nThe point of
    my post was: that 4 second time frame might have a great deal of relevance after
    all.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-13 20:39:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Compared to the many minutes and even hours we spend immersed?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 20:46:02'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Nick's post suggested a 4 second window before information moves from the
    foreground into the background (memory). This 'window' is about the space of time
    it takes, under conditions of efficient perceptual processing, to read a sentence
    of average length. If sentences are the basal units of propositional meaning,
    it seems to me this temporal window should not be dismissed.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]
  created: '2005-12-13 21:04:18'
- author:
    name: richyrocker
    picture: 109622
  body: "I want to add something to the topic. I would never use justified text with
    a a monospaced font like a typewriter-font. And I prefer justified text in books,
    set in a humanist serif font. I dont know if that's because I am used to that
    or because I just like it when it looks clean and tidy. Everything else in a book
    annoys and distracts me.\r\nAnd I guess it was Hans Peter Willberg saying that
    you can't scientificly compare the legibility of typefaces because it depends
    on so many different factors. You will always find a way to ruin a good typeface.\r\nI
    use my eyes to judge and choose what looks best."
  created: '2005-12-14 00:27:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, Do you not think the mind is busy doing things it is not conscious
    of? Or is it that the idea of the subconscious isn\u2019t substantial. Or something
    else altogether?</em>\r\n\r\nThere seems to me something worryingly Platonist
    about 'the subconscious'. We have come to speak about this theoretical construct
    as if it were substantial, and many non-specialists simply presume its existence
    as a result of the popular use of the term.\r\n\r\nI do think the mind is busy
    doing things that it is not conscious of, and these things are <em>unconscious.</em>
    The fact that they may have effects of which the mind is conscious does not make
    them any less unconscious that those things that are ineffective. We are conscious
    of the results without being conscious of the causes. We don't need this additional
    construct of the subconscious as a kind of vague no-mans-land between conscious
    and unconscious activity."
  created: '2005-12-14 01:59:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Nick\u2019s post suggested a 4 second window before information moves
    from the foreground into the background (memory).</em>\r\n\r\nMemory is complicated
    and not necessarily background. Studies of brain activity show that the parts
    of the brain associated with memory -- i.e. the parts that show increased activity
    when subjects are asked to remember something -- are active in the perception
    of motion. This suggests that awareness of motion is at least partly from memory
    of the previous state of a moving object. This is sort of alarming when I think
    about how forgetful I can be :)\r\n\r\nOf course, this is background activity
    in terms of our being unconscious of the activity itself, but we are very much
    aware of the effect."
  created: '2005-12-14 02:09:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it looks clean and tidy\r\n\r\nI don't see how a humanist serif is like
    that at all.\r\nIf you want clean and tidy, you use something like Futura.\r\n\r\n>
    you can\u2019t scientificly compare the legibility of typefaces\r\n\r\nI agree
    that it might be impossible to get a \"font-X is Better than font-y\" result.
    But it's certainly not impossible to get insights into readability via scientific
    testing (including the comparison of specific fonts). And not only is it possible,
    but it's useful.\r\n\r\n> many non-specialists simply presume its existence as
    a result of the popular use of the term.\r\n\r\nI instead think they do so because
    it's clear there is something there.\r\nWhen a person doesn't see it, it's because
    his consciousness is blocking it.\r\n\r\n> We don\u2019t need this additional
    construct of the subconscious as a\r\n> kind of vague no-mans-land between conscious
    and unconscious activity.\r\n\r\nI agree. Feel free to equate subconscious and
    unconscious. :-)\r\nJust as long as you don't think it's a \"no brainer\" area,\r\nso
    to speak. As for vague: Yeeeees.\r\n\r\n{You removed that last big paragraph...}\r\n\r\nTwo
    is everything is two.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-14 02:16:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> One can\u2019t ignore that their ideas are everywhere, at least in western
    society, and we \u201Clearn\u201D them from outside sources, even if in a quite
    \u201Cun-conscious\u201D manner.\r\n\r\nExactly. We are exposed to them and without
    ever thinking 'do I think this model of x holds water?' we accept them as a given
    & go on basing new ideas on the shared cultural assumptions.\r\n\r\n> There seems
    to me something worryingly Platonist about \u2018the subconscious\u2019.\r\n\r\nI
    agree actually. But my main point is that to you it is possibly platonist, To
    Hrant it is equivalent to unconscious, so somebody else yet another definition
    & so on. It's a murky muddy sort of term. Until it gains better definition it
    will fail to be all that useful.\r\n\r\n> this temporal window should not be dismissed\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\nAs
    far as we know has anybody done tests that compare rag vs justified texts? If
    so it would be important to look at the texts too to see if the justification
    was a hash job or well done. \r\n\r\n> An interesting experiment would be to see
    if someone could read their own writing as fast/well as a text typeface.\r\n\r\nThat
    would be interesting if ( and I think this is increasingly not true ) the person
    had spent a decent amount of time reading his or her own handwritting. Just because
    you make something doesn't mean you are familiar with it as a product - or as
    a user. Ultimately I bet that more objective factors would trump the effect familiarity
    in handwriting.\r\n\r\n>Or maybe good typography takes into account how\r\nlittle
    relative relevance that period can have.\r\n\r\nI am inclined to agree. But we
    won't know until studies are done.\r\n\r\nWhat strikes me about the debate about
    indentation or rag vs justified is the extent to which any of these methods if
    it is well done is pretty marvelously effective.  And they make me eager to read
    a text. The reverse is fully true as well.  Given me a sweet justified text over
    a botched rag anytime.\r\n\r\nWhich means that for me the important things have
    to do with appropriate font choice line spacing paper & the like. That said, if
    all other things are equal, rag is what I like to set & read the best. I must
    like my words neat & tidy more than I like my paragraphs to be flat on both sides."
  created: '2005-12-14 06:59:47'
- author:
    name: DmZ
  body: "The problem is far from boiling down to pure esthetics or paper-saving.\r\n\r\nA
    review article titled 'Typographics' appeared in the Scientific American magazine
    in the early 1980's, which mentioned, among other interesting things, tests demonstrating
    the human-engineering significance of typesetting a text in way that supports
    a uniform reading pace. It was found out that a reading process, which was not
    smothly rythmic like a lullaby melody, led to stresses and might eventually become
    harmful to the reader's nervous and/or ophtalmological state. A pronounced ragged-margin
    layout generates similar consequences.\r\n\r\nHence, the more uniformly the word
    spaces and line endings are distributed the better for the reader.\r\n\r\nMy personal
    years-long practice as an engineer and a researcher having to work a lot with
    the technical literature just confirms the above observations.\r\n\r\nMuch of
    the discussion at this forum tacitly implies English (except for a few references
    to Armenian). However, there are languages like my native Russian or, say, German,
    which abound with long words so that you will get either word spaces or line end
    positions jumping drastically from line to line unless words are hyphenated. Thus
    what may appear acceptable if not preferrable in English can be unfit for other
    languages.\r\n\r\nFor me this is a rather sensitive issue since for more than
    a decade I've been involved in a project in the course of which a great number
    of bilingual (English-Russian) documents are issued and many of them are finally
    formatted by the Americans. Setting the English version unhyphenated flash left,
    they insist on us applying the same typesetting rules to the Russian. So far all
    my attempts to convince my opposite numbers that this is inconvenient and is not
    good for my colleagues' mental/eye health have failed.\r\n  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n \r\n
    \   "
  created: '2007-02-23 22:49:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they insist on us applying the same typesetting rules to the Russian.\r\n\r\nSounds
    like most non-Latin type design.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-23 22:52:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My guess is they are afraid to make a mistake with hyphenation in a language
    they don't know and are taking the easy way out. I worked on a joint Russian-American
    publication for quite some time. It took years to get everyone happy. That was
    before opentype and built in foreign language hyphenation in software so I assume
    it would be much better now.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ch
      picture: 112205
    body: "nothing profound from me, folks, just my two cents.\r\n\r\nthis is why
      i love typophile. i'm getting the education i never had. full disclosure: i'm
      a newbie here and most of my work is in motion graphics & animation. typography
      has only played a minor role in my overall time spent (though of course major
      if and when required).\r\n\r\ni never formally studied design; i was a painting
      and animation major. i tend to approach design \"as a consumer\", which brings
      me to my response to this thread: as a reader i prefer justified, and analyzing
      the reasons why has been fascinating. \r\n\r\nmy first gut feeling is that justified
      is usually more pleasing to the eye, which is closely related to - but not exactly
      the same as - \"easier to read\". on further consideration i wonder if, as a
      consumer, i \"expect\" justified type as an indication of professionalism, based
      on expectations conditioned over time. arbitrary in a sense, but well conditioned.\r\n\r\ni
      like the occasional surprise of seeing clever combinations on a page, and i
      have both combined and sought editorial revision in various assignments. \r\n\r\non
      screen and on page also present very different experiences. i find on screen
      reading very taxing no matter what the layout, as i am required to gaze into
      a light source.\r\nand so many html defaults end up as bizarre and fragmented,
      complete with ads and boxes and spacing anomolies, until the eyes is led on
      a labyrinthine journey just to read two paragraphs. amazingly, i've seen a few
      magazines begin to emulate this chaos. \r\nto my eyes the symmmetry and formality
      of well justified print is a real pleasure by comparison.\r\n\r\nultimately,
      as many here have noted, column width, page width, font, leading, etc. all play
      a part. so context is everything ? including history, familiarity, language..."
    created: '2007-02-24 13:15:54'
  created: '2007-02-24 02:19:25'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: This thread is too long. But for the purposes of the survey, when setting
    long bodies of text I prefer justified. It's neater. Must be my book-typesetting
    background.
  created: '2011-01-15 01:21:14'
date: '2005-11-22 23:13:43'
title: 'Survey: justified or rag-right?'

---
