---
author:
  name: matha_standun
  picture: 110362
body: <i>bollocks.</i> <BR> <BR>You posh git! <BR> <BR>Holmes threw open the door
  and stormed around the room uttering oaths. The Stradivarius clutched in his agitated
  fist narrowly missed knocking over a rack of test tubes on the writing table. <BR>
  <BR>&#34;Bollocks, Watson, it&#39;s all bollocks!&#34; he cried at last. <BR> <BR>M.
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Coincidentally, <a href="http://www.butterfliesandwheels.com/articleprint.php?num=39">this
    article</a> was published today. Must be something in the air.
  created: '2003-10-15 18:08:37'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Some more thoughts on anti-intellectualism in American youth culture.  <BR>
    <BR>I remembered a study &#40;it is in the book by Chubb and Moe on Politics &amp;
    Education&#41; of how American high school students progress. They tracked how
    much students 2nd year students progressed over then new two years, by class academic
    quarter. The top quarter advanced more than two years. The lower quarters progressively
    less, with the bottom quarter knowing less than they did two years before! <BR>
    <BR>This confirms my feeling that the hostility to learning doesn&#39;t affect
    top students that profoundly.  <BR> <BR>I have read that some black students are
    ostracised by their peers for &#39;acting white&#39; if they excel in their studies,
    but this is a special &#40;serious&#41; problem for one group.   <BR> <BR>The
    hostility may well affect the middling and poor students, but in a way that is
    hard to tease out. Two of my children have been top students, and but one couldn&#39;t
    have cared less about her studies. Her view was that in high school most kids
    were just turned off by school in general, and found it boring and pointless.
    She feels that the youth mass media does have a big impact, but that a bias against
    academic excellence is hard to differentiate from the general malaise.  <BR> <BR>Another
    problem in understanding the impact and what to do to counteract it is that different
    schools are very different. For example, poor urban and rural areas have much
    more severe problems than suburban schools.
  created: '2003-10-15 18:15:35'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: <i>Coincidentally, this article was published today.</i> <BR> <BR>Thanks for
    the Link, John. <BR>You couldn&#39;t have written it better yourself. Ophelia
    wouldn&#39;t be your <i>nom de plume</i> by any chance? <BR> <BR>It&#39;s well
    argued but the mention of nazis and negationists at the end bugs me. Traditional
    history has always been extremely well-equipped when it comes to hiding genocide.
    Who, after all, controls access to &#39;official&#39; archives? Historians certainly
    don&#39;t need any help from radical philosophy in this respect.  <BR> <BR>M.
  created: '2003-10-15 18:23:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: John, interesting that there is a web site devoted to combating relativism;
    maybe the world isn&#39;t &#39;going to hell in a handbasket&#39; after all.  <BR>
    <BR>
  created: '2003-10-15 18:32:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; the hostility to learning doesn&#39;t affect top students that profoundly.
    <BR> <BR>Except when they&#39;re driven to shoot up their school. <BR> <BR>The
    point isn&#39;t what grades the bright kids end up with, it&#39;s what American
    society does to them if they get good grades. And it&#39;s not restricted to high-school.
    The fear of appearing intelligent in the US is present through college, and all
    the way into working life. It&#39;s more important to have big breasts and run
    fast. <BR> <BR>&#62; some black students are ostracised by their peers for &#39;acting
    white&#39; <BR> <BR>There&#39;s a very good reason &#40;not related to doing good
    in school&#41; that many black people &#40;or really most any minority member&#41;
    mind when a fellow black person acts white &#40;it&#39;s called being an Oreo:
    black on the outside but white on the inside&#42;&#41; - it&#39;s called assimilation
    in case you haven&#39;t heard. We Armenians call it White Genocide. Frankling
    for example was guilty of it. <BR> <BR>&#42; There&#39;s also &#34;banana&#34;
    for Asians &#40;but I prefer using &#34;twinkie&#34;&#41;, and &#34;coconut&#34;
    for Armenians: white on the inside, hairy on the outside.  :-&#41; Derogatory
    terms? You betcha - assimilation is the worst thing in the world after massacre
    and deportation. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-15 18:37:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hrant, William&#39;s point was that among some black students excelling in
    studies is seen as &#39;acting white&#39;. This observation does not require an
    analysis of ways and means of resisting assimilation, it is enough to understand
    that, for these people, academic success = acting white, acting white = bad, ergo
    academic success = bad. The reasons why acting white = bad are irrelevant in this
    observation, because the issue is <i>why academic success = acting white</i>.
  created: '2003-10-15 18:46:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>It&#39;s well argued but the mention of nazis and negationists at the
    end bugs me. Traditional history has always been extremely well-equipped when
    it comes to hiding genocide. Who, after all, controls access to &#39;official&#39;
    archives? Historians certainly don&#39;t need any help from radical philosophy
    in this respect.</i> <BR> <BR>On what basis do you say that? ...on the basis of
    historiographical judgement: i.e. you can make a statement about the practice
    of history based on presumptions about the relationship of history to <i>what
    actually happened</i>. To be able to say that historians can hide genocide is
    to acknowledge a relationship between history and actual events, and to accept
    that this history can be more or less accurate. If a genocide occured, and is
    hidden by some historians, we can say that historians who do not hide the genocide
    are more accurate. All this is possible only if you accept that it is <i>true</i>
    that the genocide happened. <BR> <BR>Yes, techniques of history can be used to
    falsify the record of what has happened -- although outright lying works just
    as well --, but Ophelia Benson&#39;s point is that such bad history can only be
    challenged if you accept basic standards of truth. If you abandon these standards,
    then you have no grounds from which to resist the people who say that the genocide
    never happened.'
  created: '2003-10-15 18:55:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; William&#39;s point was that .... <BR> <BR>Yes, I know, but I think
    he&#39;s largely misreading it. <BR> <BR>&#62; the issue is why academic success
    = acting white. <BR> <BR>I think that&#39;s tangential. The real issue is why
    &#34;academic success = social outcast&#34; in the US as a whole, and how that
    creates a nation of sheep that can be manipulated into blindly supporting imperialism.
    Forced public education is in fact nothing less than a means to amplify the economy
    of scale and cast people in molds conducive to making the rich richer. Deep down,
    US public schools are nothing more than a way to brainwash kids and &#34;free&#34;
    <i>both</i> their parents for the workforce. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-15 18:58:38'
- author:
    name: matha_standun
    picture: 110362
  body: <i>To be able to say that historians can hide genocide is to acknowledge a
    relationship between history and actual events</i> <BR> <BR>Not at all. It is
    simply to recognise that &#39;Genocide&#39; is a word. In France that word is
    officially used in relation to the Armenian Genocide. In other countries, including
    the US, it isn&#39;t. Words don&#39;t change the past but they do reveal the political
    agenda of historians working in a particular country. <BR> <BR>M.
  created: '2003-10-15 19:14:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>US public schools are nothing more than a way to brainwash kids and &#34;free&#34;
    both their parents for the workforce.</i> <BR> <BR>During the Cold War, the US,
    like all the western nations, compromised with social policy advocates in order
    to keep people happy. So what you have with public education is a social policy
    programme that capitalism tries to turn -- as it tries to turn everything -- to
    its own advantage.
  created: '2003-10-15 19:20:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I think Capitalism wouldn&#39;t have <i>allowed</i> public schools to come
    about if it was bad for business. The conspiracy theorist in me might even say
    it was all Capitalism&#39;s idea in the first place, although that&#39;s admittedly
    iffy. But certainly, once something is in place, no matter where it came from,
    Capitalism usually ends up squashing it if it&#39;s bad for business. So the survival
    of forced public education &#40;and its further evolution into a babysitting and
    brainwashing mechanism&#41; is fraught with negative implications. <BR> <BR>And
    why do you think college isn&#39;t mandatory? Because by then we&#39;re old enough
    to <i>work</i> at full efficiency. <BR> <BR>The US is great for being a college
    kid &#40;assuming you can afford it&#41;, and that&#39;s why I came here back
    when. Before college you&#39;ll be lucky to come out a balanced world citizen,
    and after college it&#39;s mindless slavery time. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-15 19:43:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>I think Capitalism wouldn&#39;t have allowed public schools to come about
    if it was bad for business.</i> <BR> <BR>So long as it felt a serious threat from
    communism, capitalism was willing to compromise on a lot of stuff: better to allow
    organised labour, public welfare, etc. than to face a revolution. Seeing the gloves
    come off over the past decade has been sobering.'
  created: '2003-10-15 20:12:30'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: Some surfing &#40;thanks to the excellent link from Mr. Hudson&#41;  turned
    up <a href="http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/0670878839/qid=1066246259/sr=8-2/ref=sr_8_2/104-7381133-6187954?v=glance&amp;s=books&amp;n=507846">this
    book</a>. Very germane intersection of topics. Has anyone here read it, and if
    so, what do you think? I haven&#39;t yet, and I suspect it&#39;s mostly bolliqz.
  created: '2003-10-15 20:37:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I think it was discussed on Typo-L. I remember the consensus being that it
    was hoaky. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-15 20:44:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Well beyond hoaky. Shlain&#39;s book was the target of a systematic and withering
    critique by William Bright &#40;co-editor of <i>The world&#39;s writing systems</i>&#41;
    in his keynote address to the 17th Unicode conference in September 2000. <BR>
    <BR>The abstract for Bright&#39;s address is <a href="http://www.unicode.org/iuc/iuc17/a107.html">here</a>,
    and the full text, as a Word document, is <a href="http://www.unicode.org/iuc/iuc17/ka/paper.doc">here</a>.
  created: '2003-10-15 22:08:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>In France that word is officially used in relation to the Armenian Genocide.
    In other countries, including the US, it isn&#39;t.</i> <BR> <BR>Lots of people
    in the USA, including professional historians, refer to the Armenian genocide.
    Many also point out some differences between the Armenian genocide and the Jewish
    genocide, e.g. that the Armenian genocide was not racially based in the sense
    that race was understood by the Nazis &#40;i.e. as genetic rather than ethno-linguistic&#41;,
    and that the Armenian genocide was territorial: the Turks massacred Armenians
    in a particular locale and did not express an interest in killing every single
    Armenian anywhere in the world. These distinctions are important -- good historians
    should always identify distinctions and nuances, since the particular is by nature
    more precise than the general and so more likely to be accurate and supported
    by specific evidence. People who claim that these distinctions are sufficient
    to deny the term genocide in relation to the Turkish massacre of Armenians are
    indeed pursuing an agenda. Then one must ask what their intent is. If they are
    concerned that using the term genocide for territorial, non-genetically&#42; inspired
    mass murder might diminish the full horror of the term when applied to universal,
    genetically inspired mass murder, then we should seriously consider that concern.
    One way to address that concern is to remain clear about the distinctions, and
    to acknowledge that there are different types of genocide. In fact, the nature
    of genocide -- literally, people killing -- depends on how the perpetrators define
    the uniqueness of the people that is their victim &#40;genetically, ethnically,
    linguistically, culturally, or a specific combination of these&#41;, including
    the definition that those whom they kill are not people at all. <BR> <BR>&#42;
    I dislike using the term &#39;racially&#39;, because this accepts a distortion
    of the traditional meaning of race, which is ethnicity, applied by the very 19th
    century proto-geneticists whose ideas informed Nazi &#39;race science&#39;. Since
    I can&#39;t use the term race to mean ethnicity without risking confusion with
    genetic concepts of race, I try to avoid it altogether.'
  created: '2003-10-15 23:05:09'
- author:
    name: steve_p
    picture: 110267
  body: '&#62;&#62;I remembered a study &#40;it is in the book by Chubb and Moe on
    Politics &amp; Education&#41; of how American high school students progress <BR>
    <BR>But would that be a worthless social science study, lacking in academic rigour
    and scientific method? <BR>======================= <BR> <BR>&#62;&#62;I think
    Capitalism wouldn&#39;t have allowed public schools to come about if it was bad
    for business. The conspiracy theorist in me might even say it was all Capitalism&#39;s
    idea in the first place, although that&#39;s admittedly iffy. <BR> <BR>Hrant,
    its not iffy at all, at least in England. <BR>The 1870 Education Act, which made
    schooling compulsory &#40;but not free for a few years after that&#41; was openly
    introduced for the benefit of the national economy. <BR> <BR> <BR>W.E Forster,
    Head of the Dept. of Education in Gladston&#39;s first administration suggested
    &#40;in his speeach introducing the bill that became the 1870 Act&#41; that &#34;upon
    the speedy provision of elementary education depends our industrial prosperity&#34;.
    <BR> <BR> <BR>The 1870 act was largely shaped by the report of the Newcastle Commission,
    which concurred with the evidence of James Fraser &#40;later the Bishop of Manchester&#41;
    that &#34;it is quite possible to teach a child all that it is necessary for him
    to possess in the shape of intellectual attainment by the time that he is ten
    years old&#34;. <BR>&#40;By this Fraser means that the child should be able to
    &#34;spell common words, read and write, add up a bill, and know his duty to god
    and to man&#34;&#41;. The Newcastle report recommended this type of education
    on the grounds that the labour market required a supply of &#34;persons thus minimally
    qualified&#34;. <BR>Meanwhile, the Public Schools Act and the Endowed Schools
    Act &#40;both concerned with fee-paying schools&#42;&#41; were shaped by the Clarendon
    report, which suggested that &#34;classical literature is the staple of English
    education&#34;. <BR> <BR>&#42;In England, both public schools and private schools
    are fee-paying. The equivalent what Americans call &#39;public schools&#39; are
    known here as &#39;state schools&#39;. &#40;The fee-paying schools have recently
    started referring to themselves as &#39;independent schools&#39;. This is of course
    ludicrous, and heavily wighted against a real understanding of their true status&#41;.
    <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-16 00:05:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Words have usefulness beyond their formal meanings. The Jews are lucky &#40;or
    maybe it&#39;s not luck at all&#41; to have exclusivity to &#34;Holocaust&#34;.
    The word &#34;genocide&#34; on the other hand is indeed usually used for the Armenian
    Genocide, but it&#39;s not exclusive - and of course the Holocaust was also a
    genocide. <BR> <BR>As for the Turkish ambitions &#40;which have in many ways remained
    the same&#41;, there was Pan-Turkism, which was the desire to create a large empire
    that spanned all the Turkic peoples all the way to Mongolia &#40;where they came
    from less than 1000 years ago&#41;, so the racial basis was in fact there. But
    it was an excuse. The real reason is the usual reason: money&#42;. The <i>visible</i>
    Armenians &#40;in Constantinople&#41; were wealthier than the average Turk &#40;although
    our rural majority was in fact getting increasingly poorer, due to harsh governmental
    repression&#41; and that caused resentment. The resentment was amplified with
    religious differences, and exploited. The poor Kurds were even recruited to massacre
    us - little did they know about choosing sides... We had been living peacefully
    under the Turks for 600 years at that point, and the resistance efforts in the
    far East of the country were only a result of repression &#40;just like in Gharapagh&#41;.
    Just look at the names of the towns in the eastern third of Turkey: they&#39;re
    Armenian - and they&#39;re where my grandparents were born. <BR> <BR>&#42; In
    fact the same could be said of the Holocaust: all the &#34;racial purity&#34;
    business wouldn&#39;t have appealed to the average German - they were in an economic
    frenzy, never having recovered from the brutality of the victorious Allies from
    WWI. <BR> <BR>Not to engage in one-upmanship of tragedy, but we lost much more
    than the Jews: not only didn&#39;t we end up gaining a new country, but we lost
    much more than a big chunk of our population - we lost our <i>land</i>, which
    we had kept for almost 3000 years. <BR> <BR>What&#39;s the real twister though
    is that Hitler used the example of the &#34;eradicated&#34; Armenians &#40;they
    didn&#39;t know they couldn&#39;t get rid of us that easily&#41; to justify the
    Holocaust! You don&#39;t hear that very often... <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-16 00:36:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>What&#39;s the real twister though is that Hitler used the example of
    the &#34;eradicated&#34; Armenians &#40;they didn&#39;t know they couldn&#39;t
    get rid of us that easily&#41; to justify the Holocaust!</i> <BR> <BR>Not to justify
    the holocaust, per se: to reassure his supporters that the rest of the world would
    ignore the slaughter of the Jews, just as they had ignored the slaughter of the
    Armenians.'
  created: '2003-10-16 02:50:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>As for the Turkish ambitions &#40;which have in many ways remained the
    same&#41;, there was Pan-Turkism, which was the desire to create a large empire
    that spanned all the Turkic peoples all the way to Mongolia &#40;where they came
    from less than 1000 years ago&#41;, so the racial basis was in fact there.</i>
    <BR> <BR>This is a good example of the problem with the term &#39;racial&#39;.
    I would refer to what you describe as ethno-linguistic, not racial &#40;although
    prior to the 19th century race was simply a synonym for ethnicity&#41;. There
    is a significant difference between ethno-linguistic genocide and genetic genicide.
    Intermarriage, assimilation and religious conversion -- all of which are recognised
    ways to destroy an ethnic group -- are insufficient &#39;solutions&#39; for Nazi
    genetic ideology, because of their belief that race is genetic and survives intermarriage,
    assimilation and conversion. Hence the logic of the &#39;final solution&#39;,
    which was really the only solution that would satisfy.
  created: '2003-10-16 03:04:45'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: 'John, <BR> <BR>&#34;Not to justify the holocaust, per se: to reassure his
    supporters that the rest of the world would ignore the slaughter of the Jews,
    just as they had ignored the slaughter of the Armenians.&#34; <BR> <BR>Are you
    saying this is not true. I believe Hitler was correct in that assumption. The
    war had nothing to do with the Jewish extermination efforts. Their plight only
    became useful for propaganda purposes. In fact the blind eye is pretty much the
    &#34;rule&#34; unless it is useful to achieving &#34;national interests&#34;.
    Or &#34;American interests&#34;. <BR> <BR>Reminds me of when they found out there
    were no significant evidence of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, or for that
    matter, the terrorist connection. The '
  created: '2003-10-16 09:27:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>Are you saying this is not true.</i> <BR> <BR>No. I didn&#39;t address
    the truth of Hitler&#39;s assumption one way or another. I was simply correcting
    Hrant&#39;s characterisation of the statement as &#39;justification&#39;. Hitler
    had written his justification -- <i>Mein Kampf</i> -- long before he needed to
    reassure his followers that they were actually going to be able to do the things
    he intended.
  created: '2003-10-16 19:29:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>The Palestinians are subjected to accusations of participating in terrorist
    activities.</i> <BR> <BR>Last I checked, blowing up buses and restaurants full
    of civilians <i>are</i> terrorist activities. <BR> <BR>There has long been an
    incredibly silly attempt to define terrorism and terrorists by the justifiableness
    of their cause. This has led to endless debates about whether such-and-such a
    group of murderers are terrorists or freedom fighters. Terrorism is a strategy.
    It should be defined by the action, not by the perceived status of the person
    commiting the act. Militant Palestinian organisations pursue a terrorist strategy
    in their war against Israel. Ironically, their greatest hope that this strategy
    might result in winning them a country must be the historical example of the creation
    of the state of Israel after a highly successful campaign of terrorism by Jewish
    militants against the British mandate. <BR> <BR>Just because one is sympathetic
    to the plight of a particular group of people who employ a terrorist strategy,
    doesn&#39;t magically make them not terrorists. I have a huge amount of sympathy
    for Catholics in Northern Ireland; this doesn&#39;t mean that I don&#39;t consider
    the IRA to be a terrorist organisation. Terrorists are all people who perform
    acts of terrorism -- the deliberate targeting of civilian life --, not just people
    who do so for reasons we don&#39;t approve of. And yes, there is such a thing
    a state terrorism: the deliberate targeting of civilians during war is a terrorist
    tactic.'
  created: '2003-10-16 19:43:58'
- author:
    name: gerald_giampa
    picture: 110171
  body: Are saying that Iraq was a terrorist nation? That Bush and Blaire were morally
    justified in attacking Iraq because of that? As far as harbouring terrorists go,
    forget Syria, the most dangerous state in the world is Canada. Maybe they should
    bomb you guys. <BR> <BR>Are you saying that daisy bombs are not terrifying? <BR>
    <BR>Are you suggesting that it would not be terrifying to be a Palestinian? That
    Palestinians have not lost innocent people. <BR> <BR>Would that not make Israel
    a terrorist state? Probably it would. Is Bush and Blaire going to bomb Israel?
    I think not. Does Israel have the bomb? No doubt they do. Is that not a weapon
    of mass destruction. You bet. <BR> <BR>If they are making such a fuss over the
    possibility of Iran building the bomb why don
  created: '2003-10-16 20:47:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; the deliberate targeting of civilian life <BR> <BR>But there are no
    civilians in a Democracy.  :-/ <BR>Well, except people who can&#39;t vote, or
    boycott elections. <BR> <BR>&#62; state terrorism: the deliberate targeting of
    civilians during war <BR> <BR>I understand &#34;state terrorism&#34; as something
    else: the targeting of politicians. Basically what Israel does when it assassinates
    Palestinian leaders. But Israel also does &#34;regular&#34; terrorism, including
    across its borders: when a car bomb goes off in Lebanon, it&#39;s Israel about
    half the time. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>Certainly, the greatest source of terrorism
    now is the US &#40;and its satelite states, like the UK and Israel&#41;. <BR>
    <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-10-16 21:09:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>Certainly, the greatest source of terrorism now is the US &#40;and its
    satelite states, like the UK and Israel&#41;.</i> <BR> <BR>To accept that I&#39;d
    have to see the extent of evidence of <i>deliberate</i> targeting of civilian,
    non-combatants by each of these states and/or specific support of such actions
    by their proxies. I&#39;m not not questioning that such things have been done
    and continue to be done by these states -- particularly Israel --, but to label
    them <i>certainly</i> the <i>greatest</i> source of terrorism only seems possible
    if one has evidence that pretty much every civilian casualty is a deliberate target.
    Killing or injuring civilians as a byproduct of a campaign against militant groups,
    even if the perpetrators consider -- as I suspect Sharon does -- that such &#39;collateral
    damage&#39; is no bad thing, does not constitute terrorism. Terrorism is an intentional
    strategy to produce terror among a civilian population by targeting them directly.
    [According to this definition, it should be pretty clear that there has probably
    never been a war in history that did not involve acts of terrorism as well as
    unintentional civilian casualties.]
  created: '2003-10-16 21:30:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>But there are no civilians in a Democracy.</i> <BR> <BR>Are you saying
    that it is justifiable in war to deliberately target the non-combatant inhabitants
    of a democracy, but not okay to target the non-combatant inhabitants of a dictatorship?
  created: '2003-10-16 21:35:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: People are responsible for their actions, whether they&#39;re holding a gun
    or not. You think Blair is not a legitimate military target?! And when somebody
    in the US for example votes for a president based on the hope that that president
    will &#34;kill the bastards&#34;, he becomes an active part of the problem. <BR>
    <BR>Why do you think terrorists focus on killing &#34;non-combattants&#34; in
    Democracies? Because the people &#40;supposedly&#41; get to decide matters of
    state. Another hidden disadvantage of Democracy. Take away voting, and you give
    people a better life. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-10-16 21:47:37'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: Mr. Godwin, is that a Law in your pocket or are you just happy to see me?
    <BR> <BR>Please stay on topic and move your discussions of terrorism, genocide,
    and other marginally tangent topics to <a href="http://www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/18726.html?1066342613">this
    new thread.</a>
  created: '2003-10-16 23:19:59'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: John, thank you, these turn into polical forums and have nothing to do with
    type or typography and my favorite Intellectual Properity Issues. Most of it is
    opinion with no basis on desernable facts, just predigise. Its so sad, Dan
  created: '2003-10-16 23:54:57'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '[moved]'
  created: '2003-10-17 00:35:48'
- author:
    name: ponofob
    picture: 110250
  body: 'to go back to the topic '
  created: '2003-10-18 16:39:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I don&#39;t think anyone suggested throwing out structuralism or any other
    set of ideas. I was indicating the &#40;mis&#41;influence of French thinkers on
    North American academia, and the fact that the same thinkers have not had the
    same influence elsewhere indicates that the problem is largely in the culture
    that receives their ideas rather than the ideas themselves.
  created: '2003-10-18 17:01:28'
date: '2003-10-15 17:57:55'
title: Popular Culture versus worthwhile scholarship

---
