---
author:
  name: silas
  picture: 110762
body: "Not sure if I'm missing something here, but class based kerning isn't applying
  any change when I change the kern value to '0' (zero, nada, null, zilch, zippo).
  \ I can change it to any other value (positive or negative integers), and the class
  obeys.\r\n\r\nIs this a bug or is there a trick to this?"
comments:
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Um... Zero equals no kerning. But I must be misunderstanding your post.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I can tell you is this: the order in which your kerning is listed is super duper
    important, and I hope that someone with The Answer on this issue - Adam? John?
    Mark? Tom? - can post a fantastic and concise statement.\r\n\r\nBecause there
    are several ways to skin a kerning class cat, but only several. There are also
    a jillion ways which will fu*k everything up."
  created: '2005-11-24 02:12:19'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "That's exactly the issue at hand.  I had some of the wrong glyphs assigned
    to a certain class.  They were kerned accordingly, and I wanted to essentially
    delete the kern pairs for those erroneously classed glyphs.  I wanted to set them
    all back to zero with the convenience of their own class.\r\n\r\nbtw... Happy
    Thanksgiving Eve."
  created: '2005-11-24 02:35:31'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Silas, \r\n\r\nIf you want to make a zero-valued exception to a nonzero-valued
    class kerning pair, then I'd make the exception -1 (or something that you don't
    use in your kerning table), then generate the \"kern\" feature using Kerning Assistance,
    copy-paste the contents of the \"kern\" feature from the OpenType panel to a text
    editor and search/replace -1 with 0. \r\n\r\nNot the most elegant solution but
    should work if you *really* want to do it that way :) \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-24 05:48:08'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Thanks Adam.\r\n\r\nIs this something that could be fixed in a future version?
    \ Should I submit a Problem Report at fontlab.com?"
  created: '2005-11-25 17:19:43'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Aha! Now I see what you're saying: You've got some kerning which you DON'T
    want, and you're trying to reset those pairs to zero. You can't do that. And it's
    definitely not a FontLab bug.\r\n\r\nKerning is cumulative, so if you have one
    line of your kern feature which kerns a pair -50, and you have another line which
    kerns the same pair -25, the result will be a kern of -75.\r\n\r\nIf you have
    one line of your kern feature which kerns a pair -50, and you have another line
    which kerns the same pair 0, the result will be a kern of -50.\r\n\r\nIf you have
    one line of your kern feature which kerns a pair -50, and you have another line
    which kerns the same pair 50, the result will be a kern of 0.\r\n\r\nWhat you
    need to do is: figure out where your problem lies and fix it at root. Having two
    competing kerns is bad coding."
  created: '2005-11-25 18:07:54'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "chester: FontLab spits an alert to the Output Panel if you try to compile
    kern feature data containing duplicate/similar lines (identical or differing values).\r\n\r\nAdam:
    I admit that I didn't actually follow your advice, and now I realize what you
    were suggesting.  It's not that I wanted to make an \"exception\" to the class.
    \ If I wanted to do that, I'd simply scratch the glyph(s) from the class.  That's
    what I did, before I manually reset the offending kern pairs to zilch.\r\n\r\nThe
    issue is whether FontLab should simply apply a zero value to the rest of the pairs
    in a kern class -- nevermind the raw kern feature data.  Any change in value is
    applied for any other integer.  Seems like a simple enough action to allow a zero-value
    to be applied as well.  Heck, Fontographer does it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-26 02:16:43'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Silas, indeed FontLab tells you about all kinds of things. If you compile
    a kern of uppercase \"L\"s (including those with accents) and uppercase \"T's,
    (including those with accents), you get a message that some kern pairs may never
    be accessed. FontLab is just being dilligent. (Or a nanny.)\r\n\r\nWhich FontLab
    are you working with? In my experience FL Studio 5 is much better about reporting
    stuff than FL45 is. And it doesn't necessarily stand up and point out double kerning
    if you have some glyphs in more than one class.\r\n\r\nBut... There is no need
    for \"zero value\" kerning. It's like having an instruction to \"do nothing\".
    It's a waste of time and energy to read something which doesn't have any instructions
    attached."
  created: '2005-11-26 03:57:10'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "There actually is a need for zero-value <i>class</i> kerning... to save time
    in making changes to the <i>kern feature data</i>.  The whole purpose of class
    based kerning is to save HUMAN time and energy.  It's not such a drain for a computer
    to read zero-data if that's what the user has intended.\r\n\r\nIn my situation,
    it was not an instruction to \"do nothing.\"  It was an instruction to change
    the existing kern feature data <i>from the existing, erroneous values</i> to zero
    for the glyphs in whatever class I chose to handle them by.\r\n\r\nAs I said,
    Fontographer can do it.  You set the kern value of one pair in a kerning assistance
    group and the linked pairs follow suit... even for a zero value.  It's good for
    curing those \"jillion ways\" you mentioned.\r\n\r\nAdam... you still there?"
  created: '2005-11-26 04:54:18'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Class-based kerning and \"Kerning Assistance\" in FontLab does not work the
    same as Kerning Assistance in Fontographer. It would be nice for those of us who
    learned to use it in FOG, but it simply doesn't.\r\n\r\nClass-based kerning in
    FL has a dual purpose: \r\n\r\nOne is for the Kerning Assistance feature, which
    is sort of like KA in FOG, but more limited. It is for when you are building a
    kerning table (NOT the \"kern\" OT feature) for a Type 1 or TrueType font.\r\n\r\nThe
    other is for building the \"kern\" feature in OpenType fonts.\r\n\r\nIn either
    case, it is only the primary glyph (the one with the apostrophe after it) in the
    class that matters. This is the only glyph you should be kerning. Other glyphs
    in a class should be left unkerned. (If you do kern them, you will get those \"may
    never be accessed\" messages.)\r\n\r\nIf you are building a conventional kern
    table, you set up your classes, kern the primary glyphs, and then hit the Expand
    Kerning button in the Kerning Assistance dialog. This builds the kerning table
    including all the other pairs implied by your classes.\r\n\r\nIf you are building
    the kern feature for an OT font, you set up your classes, kern the primary glyphs,
    and then hit the Apply and Save button in the Kerning Assistance dialog. This
    builds the kern feature. It does not build any new kerning pairs.\r\n\r\nAll of
    this assumes you're using FL 4.6. As I understand it, this stuff is a bit less
    confusing in FontLab Studio 5, but I'm still waiting for the Mac version.\r\n\r\nThe
    Kerning Assistance facility in FOG was much more flexible and powerful, but would
    not be much use for building a kern feature. It had no concept of a \"primary
    glyph\" which is the basis for class-based kerning."
  created: '2005-11-26 16:24:48'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "This is not about the zeros ...\r\n\r\nMark Simonson wrote:\r\n\"The Kerning
    Assistance facility in FOG was much more flexible and powerful, but would not
    be much use for building a kern feature.\"\r\n\r\nBoth follow a different logic.
    Fontographer's kerning assistance is as it is because it does *not* have to result
    in class based kerning.\r\n\r\n\"... It had no concept of a \u201Cprimary glyph\u201D
    which is the basis for class-based kerning.\"\r\n\r\nThe primary glyph is FontLab's
    approach to class based kerning. But the OT kern feature only needs the definition
    of classes, the kerning of classes against others, and the kerning of individual
    glyphs against others which are the exceptions. One could consider other approaches
    to class-based kerning in FontLab which would not require primary glyphs.\r\n\r\n\"In
    either case, it is only the primary glyph (the one with the apostrophe after it)
    in the class that matters. This is the only glyph you should be kerning. Other
    glyphs in a class should be left unkerned. (If you do kern them, you will get
    those \u201Cmay never be accessed\u201D messages.)\"\r\n\r\nWell, kerning other
    (not primary) glyphs will create the exceptions which are not class based.\r\n\r\nThe
    \"may never be accessed\" messages indicate that one glyph is part of more than
    one kerning class which is strictly forbidden. Unfortunately, this happen all
    the time. \r\nTo avoid this, just create separate sets of kerning classes for
    first-glyphs-in-kerning-pairs and for second-glyphs-in-kerning-pairs. (In the
    Kerning Assistance then, for first-glyphs-in-kerning-pairs classes, only mark
    classes serving as exactly that; and for second-glyphs-in-kerning-pairs classes,
    only mark these.) But still, you need to take care that e.g. an \"a\" may exist
    only once among the first-glyphs classes, and only once among the second-glyphs
    classes.\r\nNormally, this works fine.\r\n\r\nFontLab's kerning assistance may
    differ from Fontographer's. But it makes perfect sense considering the desired
    output, the kern feature. (Only the idea of using a primary glyph I consider as
    unhappy as this imposes unnecessary constraints.)"
  created: '2005-11-26 18:10:17'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: 'Mark: I understand the way the class tables interact with the kern feature
    data.  I''m suggesting that they also communicate zero values.  Regardless of
    the primary glyph organization, it would be nice to be able to ''undo'' or ''reset''
    or ''delete'' the kern value for an entire class.  Setting the kern value for
    the primary glyph seems like the most logical way.'
  created: '2005-11-26 18:16:10'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: pardon... Setting the kern value for the primary glyph <em>to zero</em> seems
    like the most logical way.
  created: '2005-11-26 18:23:12'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I'm not sure if I follow. \r\n\r\nClass kerning in FontLab is made by linking
    one or two classes to an individual pair. The individual pair is always defined
    between two glyphs. One or both glyphs can be key glyphs in a class. \r\n\r\nLet's
    say we have the kerning pairs: \r\n/a/c -20\r\n/a/e -30\r\n/c/e 10\r\n\r\nAnd
    we have three classes: \r\n_a: a' aacute agrave adieresis\r\n_c: c' ccedilla\r\n_e:
    e' eacute egrave\r\n\r\nEach class has one key glyph marked with the single quote
    and one or more dependent glyphs. \r\n\r\nBoth in FontLab 4.6 and FontLab Studio
    5, you only kern the key glyphs so you always have individual kerning pairs for
    just the key glyphs when working in class kerning. The problem in FontLab 4.6
    is that you cannot SEE the kerning for the dependent glyphs in the Metrics Window.
    \r\n\r\nSo if you preview the \"/a/c\" pair in FontLab 4.6's Metrics Window, you'll
    see the kerning applied but if you look at the \"/a/ccedilla\" pair, it will look
    as if it were unkerned. \r\n\r\nTo see the kerning applied, you need to build
    the \"kern\" feature (Tools / Kerning Assistance / Apply and Save), then \"Compile\"
    the OpenType features in the OpenType panel and finally preview the kerning in
    the OpenType Features panel. \r\n\r\nAlternatively, you can expand the kerning,
    i.e. physically copy over the kerning values from the key glyphs to the dependent
    glyphs. Then you'll see the kerning in the Metrics Window but it's no longer class
    kerning. Each pair is now an individual pair that happens to have the same value.
    If you change the kerning value for \"/a/c\", the kerning value for \"/a/ccedilla\"
    will remain the same. You can still \"expand\" the kerning again which will again
    copy over the \"master\" kerning value from the \"/a/c\" pair to the dependent
    glyphs, thus overwriting the previously expanded indivdual pairs. \r\n\r\nIn FontLab
    Studio 5, it has been changed. You see the class kerning pairs live in the Metrics
    Window. By default, dependent glyphs are displayed in dark blue and key glyphs
    in black. If you watch \"/a/c /a/ccedilla\" in the Metrics Window and change the
    kerning value of \"/a/c\", the *virtual* kerning value of \"/a/ccedilla\" will
    update instantly. But you need to remember that there still is just ONE physical
    kerning pair here: \"/a/c\". \r\n\r\nOf course, you can define a kerning exception
    for /a/ccedilla\", thus replacing the virtual kerning pair by a real kerning pair.
    This is what expanding the kerning does for all the pairs, or you can do it for
    a specific pair. If you switch FontLab Studio 5 to \"Class kerning with exceptions\"
    and drag around the \"/a/ccedilla\" pair, a new physical kerning pair will be
    defined. It can have the same or a different value from the \"/a/c\" pair, but
    once it's there, the link between the physical \"/a/c\" pair and the virtual \"/a/ccedilla\"
    pair is no longer there because there are two separate physical pairs now: \"/a/c\"
    and \"/a/ccedilla\". \r\n\r\nNow, what happens if you set a kerning value to 0
    in FontLab 4.6 or FontLab Studio 5? Such kerning pair is automatically deleted.
    This means that if I had two pairs: \"/a/c -30\" and \"/a/ccedilla -30\" and set
    \"/a/c\" to 0, I end up with just only one pair: \"/a/ccedilla -30\". If I do
    Kerning Assistance now (no matter whether it's in 4.6 or 5.0), the \"/a/ccedilla
    -30\" will never automatically vanish because \"its master has been killed\".
    The \"/a/ccedilla\" pair is a ronin now, a masterless warrior. The \"/a/c\" pair
    does no longer exist so there is nobody to tell the \"/a/ccedilla\" pair to go
    bananas as well. \r\n\r\nThe handling of kerning in FontLab Studio 5 has been
    much improved but you still need to think about the actual kerning pairs that
    \"carry the burden\". Each class kerning value is still attached to one particular
    key glyph combination. \r\n\r\nIn FLS5, there are three kerning modes: \"Class
    kerning\", \"Class kerning with exceptions\" and \"Class kerning in key pairs
    only\". \r\n\r\nWhen \"Class kerning in key pairs only\" is switched on, you can
    only change the kerning values for the key glyph and the dependant glyphs are
    locked from being changed. So if you have the situation as detailed above (3 kerning
    pairs, 3 classes), you could define or change a kerning pair for \"/a/c\" but
    not for \"/a/ccedilla\". This mode is pretty safe to work with because you always
    know which glyphs you can kern. \r\n\r\nWhen \"Class kerning with exceptions\"
    is activated, then kerning key pairs defines key kerning pairs (which are reflected
    in the virtual kerning pairs for the dependent glyphs) but if you kern a dependent
    pair, an exception is created, i.e. a new physical pair. When I kern \"/a/c\",
    I get one physical pair \"/a/c\" and automatically a number of identical virtual
    pairs for \"/aacute/c\", \"/agrave/c\", \"/a/ccedilla\" etc. But if I explicitly
    kern \"/a/ccedilla\", then a new physical pair is created and that pair disassociates
    itself from the key pair. The other virtual pairs remain linked. \r\n\r\nThe third
    class kerning mode \"Class kerning\", which is on by default, works like this:
    if you have classes define as in our example, the key kerning pair is defined
    or modified no matter whether you kern key glyphs or dependant glyphs. This is
    important to realize and remember: in this mode, when I kern \"/a/c\" or when
    I kern \"/a/ccedilla\" or when I kern \"/aacute/c\", *always* the physical \"/a/c\"
    pair actually gets kerned (and the virtual pairs follow). So the concept of key
    glyphs is still there but you can SORT OF forget about it. You can use a \"live
    language\" text file and kern around your glyph combinations, and FontLab Studio
    5 will make sure that always the key pairs get the values. \r\n\r\nSo if you have
    kerning classes defined like this (theoretically): \r\n_flatflat: n' m h u ntilde
    uacute ugrave\r\n_flatround: p' b\r\n_roundround: o' oacute ograve\r\n_roundflat:
    c' d e q ccedilla eacute\r\n\r\nAnd you type in \"/b/e\" in the metrics window
    and assign the kerning value -20 to that pair, what you're actually doing is you're
    assigning the kerning value -20 to the physical \"/p/c\" pair. There is no physical
    \"/b/e\" pair at that moment -- it's only virtual. \r\n\r\nAgain, you can make
    it physical by defining an exception (for that switch to the \"Class kerning with
    exceptions\" mode) or by expanding the kerning (in Kerning Assistance). If you
    have expanded your kerning, you'll have many pairs: \r\n/p/c -20\r\n/p/e -20\r\n/b/c
    -20\r\n/b/e -20 \r\n/b/q -20\r\netc.\r\n\r\nLet's assume that for /b/q you now
    define a different value, -30. \r\n\r\nNow, FontLab Studio 5 has the mechanism
    of compressing kerning, which will do the opposite: it will remove those physical
    kerning pairs that can be replaced by virtual pairs. After compressing, only\r\n/p/c
    -20\r\n/b/q -30\r\nremain. \r\n\r\n/p/e, /b/c, /b/e will all be removed as physical
    pairs and replaced by virtual pairs. The class definition again links them to
    the /p/c pair. Compressing will not remove /b/q because it has a different value
    so it remains as an exception. \r\n\r\nBut what happens if I have the situation:
    \r\n/p/c -20\r\n/p/e -20\r\n/b/c -20\r\n/b/e -20 \r\n/b/q -20\r\nand then set
    /p/c to 0? \r\n\r\nThe physical pair /p/c will be removed. If I now compress the
    kerning, all these pairs will remain as physical pairs: \r\n/p/e -20\r\n/b/c -20\r\n/b/e
    -20 \r\n/b/q -20\r\n\r\nWhy? Because -- as I explained earlier -- they're ronins
    now. Their master (the /p/c pair) has been deleted from the kerning table (by
    setting it to 0) and therefore they don't have a way to return to being a virtual
    pair. \r\n\r\nIn other words, if you expand, virtual pairs turn into physical
    pairs. If you compress, physical pairs turn into virtual pairs but only then if
    they have a potential key physical pair that they can be linked to. Setting a
    physical pair to 0 removes that pair from the pairs list so the ability to \"compress\"
    the others is lost. Of course, you can rewrite your class definition by moving
    the \"'\" marker to some other glyph. If you set /p/c to 0, you could change:
    \r\n_flatround: p' b\r\nto\r\n_flatround: p b'\r\n\r\nFrom now on, the /b/c pair
    is the master, not the /p/c. The ronins have a master again and could be compressed
    again. \r\n\r\nBut note that if you change your key glyph within your class, then
    the virtual pairs will not retain the old kerning values. Consider: \r\nClass\r\n_H:
    H' N M I\r\nPhysical pair\r\n/H/O 20\r\nVirtual pairs\r\n/N/O 20\r\n/M/O 20\r\n/I/O
    20\r\n\r\nWhen I go ahead and change the class definition to: \r\n_H: H N' M I\r\nI'll
    have: \r\nPhysical pair\r\n/H/O 20\r\n\r\nThis means that the virtual pairs did
    not \"magically\" migrate to the new master. \r\n\r\nHowever, if I'd like that
    to happen, I could expand kerning, reassign the key glyph and then compress kerning.
    \r\n\r\nSo, after expanding the kerning, I'd have: \r\n\r\nClass\r\n_H: H' N M
    I\r\nPhysical pairs\r\n/H/O 20\r\n/N/O 20\r\n/M/O 20\r\n/I/O 20\r\n\r\nThen I
    change the class definition so I have a new key glyph\r\nClass\r\n_H: H N' M I\r\nPhysical
    pairs\r\n/H/O 20\r\n/N/O 20\r\n/M/O 20\r\n/I/O 20\r\n\r\nand finally I compress
    kerning to get: \r\nClass\r\n_H: H N' M I\r\nPhysical pair\r\n/N/O 20\r\nVirtual
    pairs\r\n/H/O 20\r\n/M/O 20\r\n/I/O 20\r\n\r\nI hope this very long posting has
    made the whole situation a bit more clear :) \r\n\r\nRegards, \r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab
    Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-26 18:51:33'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Both follow a different logic. Fontographer\u2019s kerning assistance
    is as it is because it does *not* have to result in class based kerning.\r\n\r\n...\r\n\r\nWell,
    kerning other (not primary) glyphs will create the exceptions which are not class
    based.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I realize that. I guess I mean for <em>practical</em>
    purposes. In my experience, exceptions in the kern feature which are not class
    based cause problems in some applications, specifically, the kerning is not recognized.
    (I seem to recall that this is because of some limitation in the Adobe FDK, upon
    which FL's OT feature compiling language is base.)\r\n\r\nThe upshot is that you
    have to make sure there are no non-class based kerning pairs in the kern feature.
    The only way I know of to do this is to only kern the primary glyphs. "
  created: '2005-11-26 19:02:07'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Mark, \r\n\r\nno no, you can mix classes and individual glyphs. A typical
    kern feature of an OpenType font looks like: \r\nfeature kern { # Kerning\r\n
    # Latin\r\nlookup kern1 {\r\n    pos T w -22;\r\n    pos T @_a -30;\r\n    pos
    @_Y w -25; \r\n    pos @_Y @_a -31; \r\n} kern1;\r\n} kern;\r\n\r\nSo there are
    single-to-single, single-to-class, class-to-single and class-to-class pairs. Exceptions
    are always placed before the rules. \r\n\r\nFontLab 4.6 builds the kern feature
    in a way that is not always compatible with ATM 4.1/4.6. FontLab Studio 5 is better
    there. \r\n\r\nRegards, \r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-26 20:32:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nThen why does InDesign not see any kerning in a font when I
    include anything but classes in the kern feature?\r\n\r\nMaybe I'm doing something
    wrong, but that's the only way I've been able to get kerning to work with my OpenType
    fonts."
  created: '2005-11-26 21:07:30'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Adam,\r\nfrom your post I take it that the order of kerns using classes and
    glyphs is:\r\nglyph glyph\r\nglyph class\r\nclass glyph\r\nclass class\r\n\r\nI
    have noticed that kern features with things in the wrong order don't work.\r\n\r\nI
    now build my kern feature by first making classes for each letter with its accents:\r\n\r\n@_kernA1
    = [A Aacute Agrave Acircumflex Adieresis Atilde Aring Acaron Amacron Abreve Ainvertedbreve
    Adoublegrave Adotabove Aringacute Adieresismacron Aogonek Anocross];\r\n@_kernAE1
    = [AE AEacute AEmacron];\r\n@_kernB1 = [B];\r\n@_kernC1 = [C Cacute Ccircumflex
    Ccaron Cdotaccent Ccedilla];\r\netc.\r\n\r\nThen in the kern feature:\r\n   pos
    @_kernA1 @_kernC1 -20;\r\n   pos @_kernA1 @_kernG1 -20;\r\n   pos @_kernA1 @_kernT1
    -95;\r\n   pos @_kernA1 @_kernV1 -90;\r\netc.\r\n\r\nThis results in the majuscule
    A and all of the majuscule A with accents kerning -95 with majuscule T and all
    of the majuscule T with accents. And on and on and on. Until the crack o' crack
    o' dawn.\r\n\r\nI get to recycle big chunks of my OT coding, and I don't go anywhere
    near the Collections & Classes panel.\r\n\r\nI'm curious to know how everybody
    else does it?\r\n\r\nc"
  created: '2005-11-27 05:08:03'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "Thanks again for the wisdom, Adam, but I think I can clarify my proposition
    a tad bit more...\r\n\r\nMy issue is with <i>expanding</i> the kerning.  Zero
    values are ignored in this process, but I'd like for any zero-values set on the
    primary glyph in a class to be applied to the rest of the class.  To use your
    poetics: I wanted to apply a zero-value to the rest of those would-be \"ronins.\"\r\n\r\nI'd
    just like to have some way of selectively deleting kern pairs (in the all too
    common scenario that they are botched with a class-based guffaw.)\r\n\r\nRoger
    that?"
  created: '2005-11-27 06:02:53'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Chester,\r\n\r\nThis has to do with the basics of OpenType processing. Once
    a given glyph combination is hit, the OpenType machinery stops looking for it
    and moves on to the next pair. So if you have the \"T agrave\" glyph-glyph combo
    intended as an exception to the \"T a\" class-class combo, it had better come
    first.\r\n\r\nIn some senses, it's exactly the same reason you put \"ffi\" ahead
    of \"ff\" in the 'liga' feature.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-11-27 08:07:01'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> My issue is with expanding the kerning. \r\n> Zero values are ignored in
    this process\r\n\r\nI thought I explained this already: there is no such thing
    as zero-values kerning pairs. If you set the value of a kerning pair to zero,
    the kerning pair is removed. It really becomes \"nada\". \r\n\r\nBut I still don't
    understand your issue. Is your scenario the following: \r\n \r\n1. You define
    2 classes: \r\n\r\n_A: A' Aacute Adieresis\r\n_Y: Y' Yacute Ydieresis\r\n\r\n2.
    You define 2 pairs:\r\n\r\n/A/Y -30\r\n/A/V -30\r\n\r\n3. You expand your kerning.
    You get: \r\n\r\n/A/Y -30\r\n/Aacute/Y -30\r\n/Adieresis/Y -30\r\n/A/Yacute -30\r\n/Aacute/Yacute
    -30\r\n/Adieresis/Yacute -30\r\n/A/Ydieresis -30\r\n/Aacute/Ydieresis -30\r\n/Adieresis/Ydieresis
    -30\r\n/A/V -30\r\n/Aacute/V -30\r\n/Adieresis/V -30\r\n \r\n4. You delete the
    pair /A/Y (you set its value to 0). \r\n\r\nNow you have 11 pairs: \r\n\r\n/Aacute/Y
    -30\r\n/Adieresis/Y -30\r\n/A/Yacute -30\r\n/Aacute/Yacute -30\r\n/Adieresis/Yacute
    -30\r\n/A/Ydieresis -30\r\n/Aacute/Ydieresis -30\r\n/Adieresis/Ydieresis -30\r\n/A/V
    -30\r\n/Aacute/V -30\r\n/Adieresis/V -30\r\n\r\nIs this the scenario you're following?
    \r\n\r\nSince the pair /A/Y is gone, FontLab has no information about it anymore.
    Therefore, it has no knowledge as for how to eliminate the other pairs. You cannot
    copy \"nada\" to something else. Because nada isn't. \r\n\r\nA quote from Tom
    Stoppard should illustrate the problem: \r\n\r\nRosencrantz: Do you think Death
    could possibly be a boat?\r\nGuildenstern: No, no, no... Death is not. Death isn't.
    Take my meaning? Death is the ultimate negative. Not-being. You can't not be on
    a boat.\r\nRosencrantz: I've frequently not been on boats.\r\nGuildenstern: No,
    no... What you've been is not on boats.\r\n\r\nI realize that since FontLab 4.6
    lacks the immediate visualization of dependent (virtual) kerning pairs, you need
    to expand kerning in order to see it in the metrics window. In FontLab Studio
    5, you won't need to expand kerning at all except at the very end of the font
    development when creating a PostScript Type 1 font. During the design stage and
    when working on OpenType fonts, you won't touch Kerning Assistance at all. You'll
    define your classes in the Classes panel (you can use the automatic class building
    feature there) and then you just go ahead and kern in the metrics window -- both
    real and virtual kerning pairs will be always visualized. Of course, in FontLab
    Studio 5, if you set the value of a real pair to 0, i.e. delete it, the dependent
    virtual pairs will immediately follow -- you won't need to do anything. \r\n\r\nSo
    I guess, the ultimate answer for your question is: get FontLab Studio 5 for Windows
    now or wait until the Mac version is released. \r\n\r\nRegards, \r\nAdam\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-27 16:56:44'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "<cite>Is this the scenario you\u2019re following?</cite>\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\n<cite>Since
    the pair /A/Y is gone, FontLab has no information about it anymore. Therefore,
    it has no knowledge as for how to eliminate the other pairs.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    class is still active.  Now, what I'm suggesting is that the class <em>continue
    to serve its purpose</em>, and <em>by some magical feat of software engineering</em>
    (ie: the Expand Kerning feature) register the fact that the primary pair HAS BEEN
    DELETED and go about DELETING THE REST OF THE DEPENDENT PAIRS.\r\n\r\nThis is,
    perhaps rightfully so, a philosophical matter, but existentialist cinema does
    not illustrate the fact that the software is not behaving logically.  Software
    is not poetry.  It is machinery and should perform according to the user's expectations.
    \ My expectation is for the class to continue to determine the values of the dependent
    pairs... not to produce \"ronins\" or Rosencrantzes.  (Although I do love a dash
    of absurdism in my theatre.)\r\n\r\n<cite>I realize that since FontLab 4.6 lacks
    the immediate visualization of dependent (virtual) kerning pairs, you need to
    expand kerning in order to see it in the metrics window.</cite>\r\n\r\nok... this
    is where I observe FontLab's behavior to be deficient...\r\n\r\nFrom what you
    are saying, Adam, FontLab, by inherent design and intention, is wholly unable
    to propagate the DELETION of primary glyph kerns to the dependent glyphs of a
    class via the Expand Kerning process because it isn't designed to understand \"nada.\"
    \ Remarkable.  Our deranged little ronins go running amok.\r\n\r\nI'd like to
    see the Expand Kerning feature <em>kill the ronins</em>.  Actually, let's call
    them vampires... like the Lost Boys version.  You kill the head vampire and the
    rest of 'em get dusted (or cease to be half-way vampires).  You're Feldman.  I'm
    Haim.\r\n\r\nOTF Kern Feature classes WILL reflect the deletion because those
    would-be ronin vampires were all imaginary anyhow.  But this has nothing to do
    with FL4.6.  I need to keep dreaming about Studio 5 for Mac.\r\n\r\nAs for my
    own comically absurdist analogy, which I find slightly more apropos given your
    sales pitch for a an upgrade that may very well continue \"pining for the fjords\"...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.mtholyoke.edu/~ebarnes/python/dead-parrot.htm"
  created: '2005-11-28 05:58:02'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Silas,\r\nit seems to me that if you just do your kerning as a kern feature,
    you can have your cake and eat it. \r\n\r\nYou can make you classes and kern feature
    in the way I described above, including making \"zero kern\" relationships if
    you so desire. You use the Preview panel to view the results of your work, and
    you don't have to go near the Collections/Classes panel or Kerning Assistance.
    Use the Metrics panel to tweak sidebearings only. (In FontLab Studio 5, the compiled
    kern feature results are reflected in the Metrics panel.)\r\n\r\nSo, in code...\r\n\r\nBuild
    a kern feature by first making classes for each letter with its accents:\r\n\r\n@_kernA1
    = [A Aacute Agrave Acircumflex Adieresis Atilde Aring Acaron Amacron Abreve Ainvertedbreve
    Adoublegrave Adotabove Aringacute Adieresismacron Aogonek Anocross];\r\n@_kernAE1
    = [AE AEacute AEmacron];\r\n@_kernB1 = [B];\r\n@_kernC1 = [C Cacute Ccircumflex
    Ccaron Cdotaccent Ccedilla];\r\n...\r\n@_kernX1 = [X];\r\n@_kernY1 = [Y Yacute
    Ygrave Ycircumflex Ydieresis Ytilde Ymacron];\r\n@_kernZ1 = [Z Zacute Zcaron Zdotaccent
    Ezh Ezhcaron];\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-28 13:52:38'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Thomas,\r\nthanks for the info about logic of ordering in OT features. If
    it's confusing to an old-ish hack like me, it's probably pretty opaque to a newbie.
    But I kept my basic HTML and BASIC and LOGO knowledge, which has been greatly
    beneficial to me.\r\nc"
  created: '2005-11-28 13:59:14'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "<cite>You use the Preview panel to view the results of your work,</cite>\r\n\r\nchester:
    My Preview panel doesn't show the kerning... not even the hardcoded primary kerns."
  created: '2005-11-28 16:30:06'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: '...the Opentype Preview panel, that is.'
  created: '2005-11-28 16:31:24'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: You have to build and compile the kern feature, then switch to the OpenType
    Features tab of the Preview panel and click the checkbox next to the kern feature.
    Kerning pairs built with the Metrics window will not appear, only pairs defined
    in the kern feature.
  created: '2005-11-28 16:42:43'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Silas, Mark answered your question...\r\n\r\nI completely advocate working
    your kerning as an OT feature, and then generating a kern table at the end of
    the process, once you're happy with the results. FontLab Studio 5 has a nice new
    feature where you can generate a 1:1 kern feature from your kern table. It's then
    only a couple of hours in BBEdit to (manually) convert that to a kern feature
    like what I posted earlier in this thread.\r\n\r\nI may post my code on my site
    for people to download and play with. It will be the kern feature from an existing
    font, but should be a good start for folks.\r\n\r\nStand by..."
  created: '2005-11-28 17:29:08'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "I think I've discovered another bug.\r\n\r\nThe Kern Feature wouldn't compile
    when it was the only feature defined.  Rather, it wouldn't show up in the features
    list in my OpenType Preview panel.  I added a liga feature with a custom sub and
    THEN they both appeared.\r\n\r\nAll is (almost) well.  Can anyone else replicate
    this cute little anomaly?  Is this not an anomaly?"
  created: '2005-11-28 18:49:46'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Silas, \r\n\r\n\"I think I\u2019ve discovered another bug. The Kern Feature
    wouldn\u2019t compile when it was the only feature defined. \"\r\n\r\nYes, it's
    a bug that has been fixed in FontLab Studio 5. \r\n\r\n\"software is not behaving
    logically\" \r\n\r\nActually, I think the software is behaving logically. It's
    just not behaving the way you expect. \r\n\r\nAs I explained, in FontLab Studio
    5, this problem will no longer be an issue, at least not in the majority of cases,
    since you won't be expanding the kerning on a regular basis but rather working
    with real and virtual pairs until very late in the process. Virtual pairs *do*
    get deleted when the corresponding real pair gets deleted. It's the virtual-become-real
    pairs (after expansion) that stick. But since you (practically) don't need to
    expand in FontLab Studio 5, you won't need to worry about virtual-become-real
    pairs. \r\n\r\nAlso, in FontLab 4.6, you can kill all the vampires/ronins with
    some 20 lines of Python code. The feature itself is not built into the software
    but thanks to Python, you can implement the feature yourself. \r\n\r\nRegards,
    \r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-28 18:59:06'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Right, I have posted a text file covering class-based OTKerning for download
    here:\r\nhttp://vllg.com/files/OTKerning/\r\n\r\nSilas, Adam, I just tested a
    font with only the kern feature, and it compiles perfectly. It does have the \"magic
    bullet\" lines of feature:\r\n@_notdef = [.notdef];\r\nin the class list and:\r\npos
    @_notdef @_notdef 0;\r\nas the first line of the kern feature.\r\n\r\nTry throwing
    those into your file and see what happens."
  created: '2005-11-28 19:00:21'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: "chester: that .notdef trick isn't doing its trick.  I'm losing my marbles.\r\n\r\nIt's
    60 degrees in Chicago at the end of November.  Dipping back down into the 30's
    tomorrow.  I think I'll go for a walk and soak up the last of the fresh air --
    maybe come back to this stuff with a clear head."
  created: '2005-11-28 20:15:04'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Chester, thanks for posting that. I'm going to try your method next time.
    It looks more straightforward than the standard way (i.e., using the Metrics window
    and the Apply and Save button).\r\n\r\nOne thing I might add: When I set up my
    classes, I divide them into left and right sets. For example, @_kernlA is for
    when the A is on the left side of a kern; @_kernrA is for when the A is on the
    right side. The content of these classes depends on the design of the font, and
    I always analyze and organize by shape (for each side) before even starting to
    kern. \r\n\r\nIt looks like your class definitions are more generic, but that
    would make them easier to use with different fonts."
  created: '2005-11-28 20:34:43'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Mark, indeed, I have worked with classes similar to what Adam has described
    where shapes are addressed, so that you can kern, say, \"V\" and \"all lowercase
    glyphs with round left sides.\" (I did this on \"Mavis\", but ran into some problems,
    and found it hard to keep organised with 1000+ glyphs, including alternates, so
    have resorted to the tried and true method I posted.)\r\n\r\nAlso, what I posted
    only deals with the kerning of letters. There are also classes which keep track
    of glyphs for subsitution features like smcp and tnum and whatnot."
  created: '2005-11-28 20:51:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Thanks Chester!
  created: '2005-11-28 22:54:14'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I find myself using the Generate Classes function quite often (in Classes
    panel). It analyzes the shapes of the characters between the appropriate lines
    (baseline, x-height, caps height) and combines similar glyphs into classes. Sometimes,
    it's good to temporarily change your caps height or x-height in Font Info (put
    them 10 units lower) so subtle differences at the top of the glyphs don't confuse
    the algorithm. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-29 17:34:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am just marking this thread because I am trying to figure a way to clear
    kerning exceptions to class based kerning both globally and individually. I don't
    want to set a new exception to zero, I want to delete the exception and have the
    pair respond to the class kerning and not have a red number in it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-25 15:53:51'
date: '2005-11-24 01:30:53'
title: 'FontLab: class based kerning for a ZERO value'

---
