---
author:
  name: pierattt
  picture: 110963
body: "<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/?fuseaction=catalog.fontdetail&searchby=manufacturer&displayfontid=EF.101895.0.2\">Avant
  Garde Gotchic Book Alternates</a> doesn't have an SA ligature, so I'm looking at
  <a href=\"http://www.fwis.com/type/tard_1.jpg\" \">this.</a>\r\n\r\n\r\nSo I tried
  <a href=\"http://www.fwis.com/type/tard_2.jpg\">this?</a>\r\n\r\nor <a href=\"http://www.fwis.com/type/tard_3.jpg\">this?</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat
  do you folks think and do you have any suggestions? Any help greatly appreciated...
  I just can't seem to get it right!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Giovanni Jubert
  body: "i would suggest to use the other A,\r\nthe one with the first stroke vertical,\r\nbut
    again, that depends if you have other characters following...\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-27 23:23:57'
- author:
    name: kosal
    picture: 109775
  body: i prefer the second one. But then again, what's the context of this?
  created: '2005-11-28 02:59:27'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Hmmm,\r\n\r\nWhy use an unreadable type face. Is it free? \r\n\r\nGerald
    Giampa"
  created: '2005-11-28 05:17:21'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Both are ok. #2 if it's going to be large. Any smaller than that sample and
    you'll clog the little counter.\r\n\r\nGerald - Perhaps you're looking only at
    the Alternates font. Here are the <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/15807\">standard
    weights of Avant Garde Gothic</a>."
  created: '2005-11-28 05:29:25'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Be afaid of Avant Garde with alternates. Only a few people could handle them
    without looking just terrible. The ligatures have that 70' feel and I'd hate to
    see the days of negative leading and negative kerning come back. I like being
    able to read type.
  created: '2005-11-28 13:09:19'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: ">Avant Garde Gotchic Book Alternates doesn\u2019t have an SA ligature, so
    I\u2019m looking at this.\r\n\r\nProbably because they try without any satisfying
    result. \r\n\r\nBTWI like your first one\r\n\r\nHere one suggestion:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/SA.gif]"
  created: '2005-11-28 13:36:18'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "More suggestions:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Salsa.gif]"
  created: '2005-11-28 16:34:08'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Stephen Coles,\r\n\r\nCorrect me if I am wrong, but the trouble seems to
    be with the alternates. My advice is not to kern, but letterspace. And forget
    the alternates. Have you ever read Stanley Morison's opinion about setting italics
    in uppercase? I don't care if the slope is as backwards, as backwards as attempting
    to make this work. The problems are identical to Morison's description. It won't
    work, we all no it won't, so give it up!\r\n\r\n\r\nEven without the alternates,
    \"letterspace\".\r\n\r\nCertainly you agree.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald Giampa"
  created: '2005-11-28 18:19:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Correct me if I am wrong\r\n\r\nGG, you are right, but in the wrong universe.\r\nHerb
    Lubalin invented his ligatures to enable him to tighten up and square off display
    settings, such as this cover from 35 years ago.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG13.jpg]"
  created: '2005-11-28 18:50:52'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Nick Shinn \r\n\r\nHerb is character and so are you.\r\n\r\nThis face stinks
    and as much as I have complained about Hrant's ubiquitous pursuit in his attempt
    to design the \"Ferrari of typefaces\", he, and I,  would agree this face is far
    from the mark. If you can't set a word without a committee where are you?\r\n\r\nLeaving
    the reader behind.\r\n\r\nGet over it Nick, don't suffer from \u201CLettraset\u201D
    nostagia?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald Giampa"
  created: '2005-11-28 19:43:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Giampa is BACK :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-28 19:54:22'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nNo one loves me, I am going to go eat worms.\r\n\r\nGerald
    Giampa"
  created: '2005-11-28 20:20:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Stanley Morison was talking about typography for books. Avant Garde was quite
    obviously designed for display purposes.\r\n\r\nThe beauty of having the alternates
    available again is that they can be re-discovered and enjoyed all over again.
    It isn't fair to warn people against using them. It is better to show them great
    examples of use and then let them play."
  created: '2005-11-28 20:36:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Perhaps more to your taste GG, Matthew Carter's Mantinia provides alternate
    small forms and strange double-letter contractions. The purpose is the same, \"let
    them play\", as Tiffany says.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Mantinia"
  created: '2005-11-28 21:13:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't like Ferrari.\r\nBut yes, many of those ligs do suck, including on
    that cover.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-28 21:19:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Not the most constructive criticism, Hrant.  :^} Can you tell us why they
    suck?
  created: '2005-11-28 21:22:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The \"GA\", \"RA\"s and \"CA\" create patterns out-of-character in their\r\ndistractiveness.
    Also: the stem-to-stem (and diagonal-to-diagonal) tightness is dysfunctional;
    the \"T\" is too narrow; and the middle bar of the \"F\" is too long (except in
    that \"FO\"). I would also make the \"U\" wider and give the \"P\" a bigger head...
    Although not as big as that of people who would use AG for more than one word
    at a time... maybe.\r\n\r\nYou know what makes me happy? That I'm not about 10\r\nyears
    older: I might have ended up actually like this stuff...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-28 21:29:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "That's better. :^} \r\n"
  created: '2005-11-28 21:34:21'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Tiffany\r\n\r\n\"Stanley Morison was talking about typography for books\"\r\n\r\nI
    am referring to Stanley Morison's diatribe about setting italics in uppercase.\r\n\r\nAlthough,
    that said, he spoke of not liking italics in text. He thought a sloping italic
    made more sense. I agree Tiffany, Stanley Morison must have been an idiot. Why
    would he have designed \"Times Italic\" (1931) after his dissertation in \"The
    Fleuron\" (1926)? Did Morison read, or even believe his own article?\r\n\r\nMakes
    one wonder if Stanley Morison designed Times Italic? Think about it!\r\n \r\nTake
    a gander at the SA ligature in the illustration somewhat above. Failure\u2014yes?
    But not any worse than Nick's ephemera. Avant Garde with Alternates would make
    blindness a pleasure. \r\n\r\nShucks Chris, putty is for toddlers, hot lead is
    for typographers.\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald Giampa\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-28 21:38:40'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Avant Garde ligatures: Making God into dog.'
  created: '2005-11-28 21:50:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I don't like the cover--too clunky, the criss-cross ligatures too distracting--but
    I admire its confidence and daring. The C and A, though, should really have the
    sense of decency not to do that kind of thing in public!
  created: '2005-11-28 21:52:10'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Chris,\r\n\r\nBetter quality putty, Matthew Carter\u2019s Mantinia. It is
    a novelty when I am just\u2014almost right.\r\n\r\nGerald Giampa"
  created: '2005-11-28 22:14:21'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: 'As someone born in the early 1980''s, I tend to like Avant Garde and its
    alternates, probably because I didn''t live through the ''70''s. '
  created: '2005-11-29 01:08:54'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Avant Garde\r\n\r\nBlack velvet paintings, turquoise livertables, lavalamps
    all those things I hated when they were \"hip\", why I ask, would I like Avant
    Garde now? \"Mid century antiques?\"\r\n\r\nAm I missing something, do you folks
    strut ducktail haircuts, white socks\u2014beehive hairdos?\r\n\r\nAm I about to
    suffer through my past, \"young bubblegummer chicks\"? I say whoa to that! Thank
    god for womens lib.\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald Giampa"
  created: '2005-11-29 01:29:56'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Typophiles,\r\n\r\nAlso, that is why Miss Tiffany is such a breath of fresh
    air. My hat is off for her.\r\n\r\nGerald Giampa"
  created: '2005-11-29 02:06:29'
- author:
    name: Giampa
  body: "Also, I miss wrote,\r\n\r\nlthough, that said, he spoke of not liking italics
    in text. He thought a \"sloping italic\"\u2014(read: sloping roman, sorry)  made
    more sense. I agree Tiffany, Stanley Morison must have been an idiot. Why would
    he have designed \u201CTimes Italic\u201D (1931) after his dissertation in \u201CThe
    Fleuron\u201D (1926)? Did Morison read, or even believe his own article?"
  created: '2005-11-29 02:17:20'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Regardless of anyone's critique or feelings about AGG with or without alternates
    and ligatures, I bet Herb Lubalin and Aaron Burns (and maybe Ralph Ginsberg)  would
    be laughing their venerable arses off about the continuing releases, re-releases
    and re-marketing of what NEVER began a \"typeface\" to start with.\r\n<ul>\r\n<strong>Herb
    Lubalin:</strong>\r\n\r\n<em>'The dedication page of the first issue of Avant
    Garde magazine reads: 'As most of the world's ills are traceable to old imperatives,
    old superstitions and old fools, this magazine is exhuberantly dedicated to the
    future.'\r\n\r\n'For one who finds the present almost impossible to contemplate,
    the future is absolutely beyond my realm of understanding. So when Ralph Ginsberg
    asked me, in early 1967, to project myself into the future and design an avant
    garde logotype for Avant Garde magazine, I felt entirely inadequate to the task.\r\n\r\n'I
    had three alternatives: (1) reject the job, which would automatically admit defeat;
    (2) reveal myself as a failure, which wittingly I would never do; and (3) make
    a satire of the name (which I felt was the only avant garde way to interpret what
    avant garde means \u2014 and what avant garde means is meaningless, since once
    it is seen, it is no longer avant garde. ) I chose alternative no.3)\r\n\r\n'I
    submitted the logotype in Old English, Bank Script, Cartoon Bold, Dom Casual,
    Flash italic, Wedding Text, Monastic, Buffalo Bill, and a last-ditch effort reflective
    of Coca-Cola.\r\n\r\n'Ginsberg said, 'Stop kidding around!.'\r\n\r\n'I then tried
    to dazzle him with a multitude of ornate swashes which usually does the trick.
    He said 'Cut it out!'\r\n\r\n'It was clear that I had to produce a piece of typography
    unlike anything done before. The juxtaposition of the letters AVA with their related
    slants was evident in several of my sixty abortive attempts, and it became critical
    in the cockeyed lettering of my final sketch. As soon as I worked out a pencil
    rough, I knew I had hit on the ultimate solution. I can't really remember doing
    it. I only remember it being there on my layout pad.\r\n\r\n'When I looked at
    the lettering there was a feeling that I only remember having once before in my
    graphic lifetime, and that was when I designed the 'Mother and Child' logotype.
    I knew the Avant Garde logotype would stand the test of time and remain avant
    garde for a long time. It was a subconscious or intuitive feeling that you get
    only occasionally \u2014 a feeling that you have created some thing that cannot
    be made better \u2014 by anyone.'\r\n\r\nThe logo was the basis of the typeface
    design we know today as 'Avant Garde'.</em></ul>\r\n\r\nNow, obviously, Herb \"prettied-up\"
    his tale about how \"Avant Garde Gothic\" came into existence for marketing purposes.
    Basically he would have said, \"<em>Jeez, Ralph... quit your f*?king whinning
    and use the goddam mother-f#@king logo and stop being such a big a@#hole!</em>\"\r\n\r\nMeanwhile,
    time passes, and Aaron is scratching his forehead thinking \"<em>How are we</em>
    [ITC] <em>going to make money with all these half-drawn designs from PLINC?</em>\"
    or something like that.\r\n\r\n\"<em>I know, let's get all of our friends and
    design buddies MAKE them popular by using them in high-visibility ad campaigns!
    Hmmm, and the logo that Herb did for Ralph, some folks have been asking what font
    they used... well, let's quickly make it a typeface so we can license it to Linotype,
    Monotype and Compugraphic! I'm sure they might stay popular for a couple of years
    while we start building new designs.</em>\"\r\n\r\nTruth is always better than
    academic posturing. =o\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-29 18:36:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Thanks for sharing that. I love it.\r\n\r\nWho is posturing?\r\n\r\nGerald,
    it seems Morison lead a dual life as his advertising design attests. He may have
    been a fine typographer, but his design -- that which I've seen -- wasn't so good.
    I'd guess that he might have wanted an oblique but new that it wasn't going to
    fly. An besides, even Jan Tschichold has been forgiven for waffling. =^D"
  created: '2005-11-29 18:50:32'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Who is posturing?</em>\r\n\r\nActually, no one on this thread. It's
    just that I've been visiting a lot of graphic design and design critique sites/forums,
    and it was just a bad taste I still had when I wrote about the <em>true-novella</em>
    origins of AGG."
  created: '2005-11-29 19:02:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Phew. I was worried you were calling me on something.\r\n\r\n=^D"
  created: '2005-11-29 19:16:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Herb \u201Cprettied-up\u201D his tale\r\n\r\nIt's a great story, which may
    even be true. Not knowing any better, here's what I assumed: he was fond of ultra
    tight, squared-off settings, and Futura demibold. So I imagine he would have tried
    this, and then taken it a step further...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AGF.jpg]\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I believe that Lubalin, with the assistance of Tom Carnese, had developed the
    logo as a font for use in the magazine prior to ITC -- may even have had a typositor
    filmstrip made.\r\n\r\nAvant Garde bears some interesting parallels with Neville
    Brody's Industria. Both were developed by magazine art directors (with alternates)
    for specific publications, both becoming instrumental in giving face to new type
    technologies."
  created: '2005-11-29 19:27:31'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>developed the logo as a font for use in the magazine prior to ITC</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    was, Nick.\r\nI don't have my source material at hand (some early sketches for
    the magazine logo) but AFTER the logo and after an issue or two of <em>Avant Garde</em>
    magazine, Ralph Ginsberg started bugging Herb to use the logo-face for captions
    inside.\r\n\r\nApparently, according to legend, AGG was expanded character wise
    hastily and new characters as needed. Though I do believe when the oblique characters
    were finally commissioned and developed by Christian Mengelt and Erich Gschwind
    in \u201977, they were all designed together."
  created: '2005-11-29 19:52:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess that \"S\" in AvanteGarde has always bothered me.  I have always
    wanted to take an auto-body hammer to it and bang the dents out.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-29 19:56:12'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I'm afraid of how younger designers who haven't a clue about its history will
    abuse the alternatives. It should be a horror show.
  created: '2005-11-29 22:03:17'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Do not fear, Dan. Most of the printed world is already a horror show. Never
    mind the bollocks.\r\n\r\nIn my mind, introducing new tools is only a positive
    thing."
  created: '2005-11-30 04:03:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The skill of the user can overcome the failings of the tool. The Failings
    of the user can overcome the skill of the tool.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 13:11:09'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Or as Herb Lubalin would have said,\r\n\"<em>Holy sh#t! What kinda crap are
    you designing now?! \r\nWere you sleeping in my class again?</em>\""
  created: '2005-11-30 16:19:37'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Stephen I would agree but the slanted (fake italic) version of this face
    is an embarasment. I agree alot of print about fashion and not thinking about
    the end user. '
  created: '2005-11-30 22:09:27'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Does anyone else have a problem with the Academy bus line logo? horrible
    spacing because of the second alternate A makes it look like AC  ADEMY :-?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/home_logo.jpg]"
  created: '2005-12-01 01:38:44'
- author:
    name: FeeltheKern
  body: "It's interesting to hear how much older generations have a distaste for the
    overuse of Avant Garde. I see it with fresh eyes, so it doesn't have the same
    baggage for me, although I can't think of any application for it besides being
    a display face. \r\n\r\nI'm wondering what modern-day overused typeface from the
    last 10 or 15 years is going to make a comeback 30 years from now and drive me
    crazy."
  created: '2005-12-02 03:47:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Arial?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-02 15:51:04'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Is Comic Sans has 10 or 15 years old?\r\n\r\nAndr\xE9   ;^j"
  created: '2005-12-07 00:21:10'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "> <cite>I\u2019m afraid of how younger designers who haven\u2019t a clue
    about its history will abuse the alternatives. It should be a horror show.</cite>\r\n\r\nDan,
    you could always award this little booby-prize for those who misuse the alternates/ligatures
    (or accidentally use them well?)  :\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/medium.jpg]\r\n\r\n[
    <a href=\"http://www.iwasateenage.com/design.php?design_id=4\">http://www.iwasateenage.com/design.php?design_id=4</a>
    ]"
  created: '2005-12-19 22:29:34'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I agree that is a horror show but you haven't even seen the worse that will
    happen. Its scarry.
  created: '2005-12-19 22:35:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I love that Savanttard!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-19 22:59:18'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Horror show? It's beautifully done.
  created: '2005-12-20 08:02:30'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "Hm. I wasn't implying this usage was a horror show itself. \r\n\r\nHowever,
    it was in response to Dan's orginal comment about young designers discovering
    the possibilities of the typeface for the first time with no contextual awareness
    of its orgin... perhaps to the effect of a horror show, or possibly even for greatness
    (as an idiot savant, which this is playing off).  \r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\nThis does
    use an 'SA' ligature, which was the original intent of this thread. Didn't notice
    that when I posted it! More appropriate than I thought..."
  created: '2005-12-20 14:33:21'
- author:
    name: pierattt
    picture: 110963
  body: "Just a couple comments:\r\n\r\n- Lubalin is one of my design heros. So to
    say that young designers are unaware of the context of Avant Garde is a bit obtuse.\r\n\r\n-
    You guys realize that we did that Savant Tard shirt, right? It was for that graphic
    that this thread's question was intended."
  created: '2006-01-05 16:59:30'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "> <cite>You guys realize that we did that Savant Tard shirt, right? It was
    for that graphic that this thread\u2019s question was intended.</cite>\r\n\r\nHa!
    That's too perfect. (So, no -- I didn't realize it was the same source.)"
  created: '2006-01-05 17:03:56'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "<em>> I\u2019m afraid of how younger designers <strong>who haven\u2019t a
    clue</strong> about its history will abuse the alternatives.</em>\r\n\r\nI guess
    this applies to ANYONE \"without a clue\" young or old.\r\nEven during Lubalin's
    lifetime during the '80s, seeing alternate ligatures running amuck was as bad
    as a sharp stick in the eye.\r\n\r\nPostscript (meaning p.s.)>\r\nITC Avant Garde
    was just one of several typefaces with multiple ligatures, alternates and swishy-swashy
    characters -- ITC Lubalin Graph, ITC Benguiat, ITC Bookman, ITC Zapf International,
    ITC Serif Gothic, ITC Ronda, ITC Gorilla, ITC Grizzly, ITC Busarama, ITC Zapf
    Chancery, just to name a few.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-05 17:39:56'
- author:
    name: SUEDE
    picture: 112384
  body: does anyone have any examples of ITC lubalin graph's ligatures and alternates?
    Just Curious...
  created: '2007-11-08 23:20:21'
- author:
    name: vormburo
  body: "maybe somewhere here\r\n\r\n[[http://www.typogabor.com/herb-lubalin/index_10.html|http://www.typogabor.com/herb-lubalin/index_10.html]]\r\n"
  created: '2007-11-29 01:01:13'
- author:
    name: Lance M
    picture: 114578
  body: "The record label Great Stuff has been using the ligatures heavily, what do
    people think of this?:\r\nhttp://www.discogs.com/image/R-1036601-1190411238.jpeg\r\nhttp://www.discogs.com/image/R-1022849-1185711980.jpeg\r\nhttp://www.discogs.com/image/R-888483-1169485761.jpeg"
  created: '2008-03-24 01:49:56'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I\u2019m sure I show my foolishness by commenting in this thread, but look
    at the writing of the time. Paul Krassner was one of many pranksters that wanted
    to violate the reader. How could Mr. Lubalin not rise to the occasion?\r\n\r\nNo
    wonder David Carson set that Bryan Ferry interview in dingbats."
  created: '2008-03-24 04:15:00'
date: '2005-11-27 21:25:03'
node_type: forum
title: Need some ligature help/advice on Avant Garde

---
