---
author:
  name: Grant Hutchinson
  picture: 128153
body: "Give it up for those crazy kids at Fontlab. Yes, believe it or don't - Fontographer
  4.7 for Mac OS X is now available. Here's a short list of the fixes and features
  of this release:\r\n\r\n* Native support for Mac OS X,\r\n* Support for the Euro
  character\r\n* Updated encodings\r\n* Copy-paste compatibility with new Illustrator
  and Freehand versions\r\n* Numerous bug fixes\r\n\r\nHuzzah.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontlab.com/Font-tools/Fontographer/\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Excellent. Now, anyone want to attempt a brief tale-of-the-tape for Fontographer
    vs. TypeTool or FontLab? I can see how this is very welcome news for FOG vets,
    but it doesn't make much sense for newbies to try and pick up FOG at this point,
    right?
  created: '2005-11-28 05:25:06'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Here is Fontlab's point-form product feature comparison chart for starters:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontlab.com/Font-tools/Product-Comparison-Chart/"
  created: '2005-11-28 05:42:12'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: I'd buy it if I could only customize the keyboard commands.
  created: '2005-11-28 06:04:27'
- author:
    name: silas
    picture: 110762
  body: '...and if it was offered at a discounted "downgrade" price for FontLab users.'
  created: '2005-11-28 06:09:57'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Just outta curiousity, how is it that Typetool, as a scaled down Fontlab,
    supports more characters than FontLab Studio?
  created: '2005-11-28 07:25:05'
- author:
    name: Down10
    picture: 128220
  body: "Hey look, an upgrade \u2014 <em>nine years later!</em> Is there a record
    for this kind of delay in the software world (excluding Y2K core updates)?\r\n\r\nAnyhoo,
    thanks for picking up the ball, FontLab. You guys rock."
  created: '2005-11-28 07:48:48'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'hey, the  first "bug":   problem with the Installer; where''s my upgrade?'
  created: '2005-11-28 08:12:07'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "http://www.fontlab.com/Font-tools/Product-Comparison-Chart/\r\n\r\n;) this
    is interesting: \"Undo\" is N/A in Fog now. \r\n\r\nI've only used FL since spring
    (after 16 yrs or Fog), drawing 30 or so fonts in that time. Here is a top list
    of things Fog Does Better in the LETTER DRAWING phase of type design:\r\n\r\n1.
    End points connect like they know they are supposed to in Fog. In FL, they need
    to be no farther apart than the thickness of a flea's pubic hair in order to get
    the points (connected).\r\n2. FL bolding adds, sometimes dozens of, unwanted points.
    Fog = 0.\r\n3. FL interpolation is practically useless for the same reason as
    #2, i.e. it does not understand matching points, the cleanup is more work that
    manual\r\nInterpolation.\r\n4. Fog is smart enough to know that when you have
    the pen tool, and you click on a contour, it should add a point to the contour,
    (you can draw all day long with Fogs pen without EVER changing tools). FL = special
    tool for the same simple function, change tool, change tool, change tool.\r\n5.
    Fog's metrics window knew that the baseline was not ness., in fact it's a distraction
    to good spacing. FL Lets you know exactly where the baseline is in the metrics
    window whether you like it or not.\r\n6. type an unoccupied character in Fog,
    it shows up blank. FL crashes 50% of the time, and otherwise misbehaves when you
    type the as yet defined.\r\n7. Fog = Correct path direction. FL = Reverse all
    contours. The former just works, the latter, I don't even know why they bother
    unless you're supposed to delete every contour that is correct, \"Reverse all
    contours\" to correct the contour(s) that are wrong.\r\n8. 15% of all zooms in
    FL's glyph window fly to a minuscule and uneditable 12 point. Fog = 0% of all
    zooms are correct.\r\n9. FL is seriously deranged about the differences between
    \"copy\", \"delete\", and \"merge\". Fog's got it 100% right. (In FL, I still
    have not figured out how to select more than one point and merge the contour around
    it...)\r\n10. Fog has a tiny number of icons for all the tools you need, and every
    single one is useful every day. FL is Totally Nuts about tools and icons. \r\n\r\nThings
    on the other side of the ledger:\r\n1. FL is pretty. Fog is not.\r\n2. FL goes
    on, Fog does not.\r\n:-) "
  created: '2005-11-28 13:27:14'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "FL supports the development of OpenType fonts (without using an external
    compiler) and Fog does not. FL is the 777 to Fog's Sopwith Camel. You can't fly
    a 777 through a barn, but you can't carry 500 passengers in a Camel.\r\n\r\nYes,
    the drawing environments are different, in much the same way that Illustrator
    and FreeHand's drawing environments are different. Which one's better? The depends
    upon which one you like use best. \r\n\r\nPersonally, I was delighted to make
    the wholesale switch to FontLab in 2002, and I haven't looked back since. I have
    had the chance to poke around with FogX, and was amused by the anachronism: made
    me want to thrown on some neon legwarmers and fire up the Flashdance soundtrack.\r\n\r\nAll
    of which to say: If you're a devoted FogHat, you'll be delighted to have the application
    ported and tweaked for use on OS X. If you've made the switch to FontLab and are
    happy with it, you probably won't find a reason to switch back to Fontographer."
  created: '2005-11-28 15:34:37'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "David, I think you nailed it with your list... Fog feels like a type \u2018designing\u2019
    tool to me, whereas Flab has always felt like a type \u2018programming\u2019 tool.
    I'm not adverse to programming and the more technical aspects of type development,
    but if it gets in the way of the design process, then a different tool needs to
    be used. I use both applications, and I prefer them for different reasons.\r\n\r\n>
    <i>\u201C2. FL goes on, Fog does not.\u201D\r\n\r\nThe fact that Fog 4.7 has been
    released at all negates this point entirely.\r\n\r\nThank goodness Fog is a player
    again."
  created: '2005-11-28 15:50:11'
- author:
    name: .
  body: ">Thank goodness Fog is a player again.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of \"play\" and \"again\":\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Flashback.jpg]"
  created: '2005-11-28 16:13:17'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "But you've always had the ability to go back. All you have to do is boot
    up your old Mac, click two times and say, \"There's no place like FOG. There's
    no place like FOG...\"\r\n\r\nIt will be more interesting when they do the <em>real</em>
    upgrade--FOG 5--due out next summer."
  created: '2005-11-28 16:32:26'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "David: are you on FontLab Studio 5/Mac beta list? If not - contact me - most
    of things in your list are fixed.\r\n\r\nMark: I think that even more interesting
    it will be when we release Fontlab Studio with all best Fog features. "
  created: '2005-11-28 16:58:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "> \u201C2. FL goes on, Fog does not.\u201D\r\n\"The fact that Fog 4.7 has
    been released at all ...\"\r\nNo, I mean the real tool, not 4.anything. I only
    ever used 4.x in a pinch, and never for drawing. Getting 3.5 to work in X'd be
    a hoot, but that ain't gonna happen. \r\nThe overall appearance, interacitve piece-wise
    scaling of parts, \"I'm sure there must be some way to do this\" adventure, continuing
    into the \"I'm sure there must be a better way to do this\" adventure, makes FL
    worth sticking to, at least until I get to it's last nook. Sure, I could've drawn
    50 fonts in the same time in my old Fog, but those days are gone, My list is for
    FL improvements (; O O ;)"
  created: '2005-11-28 17:00:28'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> when we release Fontlab Studio with all best Fog features.\r\n\r\nwhen? "
  created: '2005-11-28 17:01:40'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "> when?\r\n\r\nWe are working on it. Right now. :-)"
  created: '2005-11-28 17:26:24'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "By the way, I didn't run into any issues with the demo installer. Has anyone
    else had a problem like Mr Hamuel experienced? Just wondering...\r\n\r\nYuri,
    is there a definitive list of what \u2018bugs\u2019 were actually \u2018fixed\u2019?\r\n\r\nCheers."
  created: '2005-11-28 17:49:31'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "They* fixed it; just  ordered FogLamp and faced the same issue, but right
    now - everything is fine!\r\n\r\n(* well... Lisa Devlin fixed that).\r\n\r\n>
    Mr Hamuel\r\n\r\nahhh.... this is too heavy Mr Hutchinson :)"
  created: '2005-11-28 18:09:49'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: 'Grant: not much. Layout of all dialogs is updated to match current UI standards,
    some old crash-bugs were fixed, embedding problem is fixed, clipboard exchange
    with AI works (do not forget to turn on AICB option in AI files & clipboard preferences)
    and all encodings are updated to include Euro. Also, few things in TT export were
    fixed so it basically produces better TT fonts. Anyway, we recommend to post-process
    Fog export using TransType or a combination of FogLamp and TransType.'
  created: '2005-11-28 18:37:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "A quite bizarre event, from an open-minded, big-hearted company.\r\nIt hasn't
    been easy for the tech-minded FontLab to accomodate the criticisms of diehard
    Fogoholics, but they have found ways to make Flab more user-friendly, e.g. working
    with indie-foundry beta-testers -- and now this.   "
  created: '2005-11-28 18:42:50'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Yes! I second Nick's statement. Let's all send thanks to Yuri, Cyril, and
    the team in Russia, and Ted, Lisa, and the American team. Without their tireless
    work we type types would be in quite the pickle, selling our rubdown sheets door-to-door.\r\nThanks.\r\nc\r\n\r\nPS;
    I forgot to shout-out to Adam, whose knowledge of the software is invaluable;
    hiring him was one of the best things FontLab has ever done."
  created: '2005-11-28 19:15:45'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nthanks for your list -- it's almost as good as your list of
    10 things you like about Matthew Carter :) \r\n\r\n> 1. End points connect like
    they know they \r\n> are supposed to in Fog. In FL, they need \r\n> to be no farther
    apart than the thickness \r\n> of a flea\u2019s pubic hair in order to get \r\n>
    the points (connected).\r\n\r\nIn FontLab 4.6 or FontLab Studio 5: Options / Glyph
    Window / Snap-to distance. Set to 50 and you'll be talking elephant pubic hair.
    \r\n\r\n> 2. FL bolding adds, sometimes dozens of, unwanted points. Fog = 0.\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    I believe FontLab Studio 5 has some improvements on this, but in addition, FontLab
    Studio 5.5 will include Fontographer's \"Change Weight\" command. \r\n\r\n> 3.
    FL interpolation is practically useless \r\n> for the same reason as #2, i.e.
    it does not \r\n> understand matching points, the cleanup is \r\n> more work that
    manual Interpolation.\r\n\r\nThis has been improved in FontLab Studio 5. FontLab
    Studio 5.5 will probably alternatively include Fontographer's blending algorithm.
    \r\n\r\n> 4. Fog is smart enough to know that when \r\n> you have the pen tool,
    and you click on \r\n> a contour, it should add a point to the \r\n> contour,
    (you can draw all day long with \r\n> Fogs pen without EVER changing tools). \r\n>
    FL = special tool for the same simple \r\n> function, change tool, change tool,
    change tool.\r\n\r\nAgreed. This is still subject to improvement in FontLab Studio.
    \r\n\r\n> 5. Fog\u2019s metrics window knew that the \r\n> baseline was not ness.,
    in fact it\u2019s a \r\n> distraction to good spacing. FL Lets \r\n> you know
    exactly where the baseline is \r\n> in the metrics window whether you like \r\n>
    it or not.\r\n\r\nFontLab Studio 5 has a multiline spacing and kerning window
    where you can turn everything off and have a very plain interface. \r\n\r\n> 6.
    type an unoccupied character in Fog, \r\n> it shows up blank. FL crashes 50% of
    the \r\n> time, and otherwise misbehaves when you \r\n> type the as yet defined.\r\n\r\nI
    believe you will see great improvements on this in FontLab Studio 5. \r\n\r\n>
    7. Fog = Correct path direction. FL = \r\n> Reverse all contours. The former just
    \r\n> works, the latter, I don\u2019t even know \r\n> why they bother unless you\u2019re
    supposed \r\n> to delete every contour that is correct, \r\n> \u201CReverse all
    contours\u201D to correct the \r\n> contour(s) that are wrong.\r\n\r\nNo. In FontLab
    4.6, pick Tools / Transform / Contour / Reverse all and from the parameters pane
    pick \"Set counterclockwise (Type 1) direction\". Then it works exactly like Fontographer's
    \"Correct path direction\" but is not very well-accessible. Therefore, in FontLab
    Studio 5, we made the command easier to access: Contour / Paths / Set PS direction.
    \r\n\r\n> 8. 15% of all zooms in FL\u2019s glyph window \r\n> fly to a minuscule
    and uneditable 12 point. \r\n> Fog = 0% of all zooms are correct.\r\n\r\nCan you
    elaborate on this? \r\n\r\n> 9. FL is seriously deranged about the \r\n> differences
    between \u201Ccopy\u201D, \u201Cdelete\u201D, \r\n> and \u201Cmerge\u201D. Fog\u2019s
    got it 100% right. \r\n> (In FL, I still have not figured out \r\n> how to select
    more than one point and \r\n> merge the contour around it\u2026)\r\n\r\nCan you
    elaborate on this? (If you wish, you can contact me directly at adam at fontlab
    dot com). \r\n\r\n> 10. Fog has a tiny number of icons for all \r\n> the tools
    you need, and every single one \r\n> is useful every day. FL is Totally Nuts \r\n>
    about tools and icons.\r\n\r\nI think you should like FontLab Studio 5 since it
    brings some improvements in the UI. You can customize your UI in FontLab Studio
    5 -- just pick the icons you want, place them on one toolbar and forget about
    the rest. \r\n\r\n\r\nNick, \r\n\r\n> It hasn\u2019t been easy for the tech-minded
    \r\n> FontLab to accomodate the criticisms \r\n> of diehard Fogoholics\r\n\r\nI
    never believed Fontlab Ltd. is as tech-minded as some people thought. I always
    thought of Yuri as a pretty good designer -- that was way before I started working
    for the company. Yuri had drawn most of FontLab's UI icons. While some may think
    there are too many of them, most of you will probably agree that the ones that
    are there pretty well illustrate the functionality of the various features. Even
    David agrees that FontLab is \"pretty\". In his spare time, Yuri does a fair bit
    of video editing and altogether, he has quite some visual taste. \r\n\r\nOf course,
    the FontLab team is always learning. The original development of FontLab was influenced
    by Russian type designers who not only wanted to draw glyphs but needed to trick
    around various encodings and codepages. These were the days where nobody had heard
    of Unicode so FontLab came up with this sheer amount of various technical parameters
    -- very useful for non-Western type designers but daunting for Americans :) \r\n\r\nThe
    product evolved. I can only attest that the FontLab team was always very responsive
    to suggestions and \"accomodating criticisms\". I bought FontLab 3.00C on March
    17, 1998. I sent an e-mail \"FontLab 3.0 -- first impression\" to Yuri Yarmola
    on March 27, 1998. I received a reply from him on the same day. His reply was:
    \"Thank you for your messages. It seems that I have some work to do on the weekend...
    I will analyze all bug reports and suggestions you've made and will try to fix
    some of the problems in 3.00D release.\" On May 6, 1998, I received a beta version
    of FontLab 3.00D from Yuri. Most of the problems that I had reported 5 weeks earlier
    were fixed, and some improvement suggestions were also implemented. \r\n\r\nSometimes
    it took patience, time spent on detailed descriptions of intended functionality,
    making mockup screenshots. But my experience was: the more time you spend as a
    user to provide detailed feedback regarding functionality issues, the easier it
    is for the developers to accomodate for. As Yuri said on several occasions when
    talking about FontLab Studio 5, 90% of the improvements in this version were a
    result of ideas brought in by users. \r\n\r\nI can admit that very early on, the
    FontLab team had a sense of \"idea competition\" against Fontographer. The developers
    didn't want to just copy the UI or solutions from Fontographer 1:1 but were looking
    for their own -- potentially better -- solutions. But after the FontLab product
    assumed an identity of its own and the company didn't face the danger of it being
    dubbed \"the cheap Fontographer knock-off\", the developers could become friends
    with the idea of actually borrowing some solutions from FOG. \r\n\r\nThis year,
    we have acquired Fontographer from Macromedia. So now, we not only can \"imitate
    the look and feel\" but we can actually physically bring together both products
    including the programming code. \r\n\r\nFontlab Ltd. brought out the FogLamp product
    that converts .fog to .vfb just two months after laying the hands on the Fontographer
    source code. It may be a little gimmick, but technologically, it proves that the
    merger is possible. \r\n\r\nThe long-year Fontographer tech support lead Jim Gallagher
    joined the Fontlab Ltd. team in a similar capacity. We plan to continue the development
    of Fontographer in 2006, and we are gathering the ideas for the product. Please
    send your feedback at fogideas at fontlab dot com. We're listening. \r\n\r\nRegards,
    \r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-28 19:54:43'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n> this is interesting: \u201CUndo\u201D is N/A in Fog now.\r\n\r\nThis
    does not mean that \"undo is not available\". It means that the information about
    the supported number of undo levels is not available. Undo is there but I (who
    made the table) don't know how many steps it supports. I'll ask our developers
    :) \r\n\r\nRegards, \r\nAdam"
  created: '2005-11-28 19:56:56'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: ">> 4. Fog is smart enough to know that when\r\n>> you have the pen tool,
    and you click on\r\n>> a contour, it should add a point to the\r\n>> contour,
    (you can draw all day long with\r\n>> Fogs pen without EVER changing tools).\r\n>>
    FL = special tool for the same simple\r\n>> function, change tool, change tool,
    change tool.\r\n\r\n>Agreed. This is still subject to improvement in FontLab Studio.
    \r\n\r\nIf we are talking about the same pen tool (the thing that looks like pen
    and adds lines and curves), then I have to say that it adds a point on a contour
    if you click contour. I don't remember if it was so in FontLab 4.x but it definitely
    works that way in 5.0. Or you mean some other pen tool? :)\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-28 20:08:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I never believed Fontlab Ltd. is as tech-minded as some people thought.\r\n\r\nIt's
    a PC-first product.\r\nCreatives use Macs."
  created: '2005-11-28 21:27:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>It\u2019s a PC-first product.\r\nCreatives use Macs.</em>\r\n\r\nI won't
    feel bad if Hrant tears you apart for that blanket statement. \r\n>^P"
  created: '2005-11-28 21:52:14'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: I'd like to hear Hrant's argument. Sheer numbers prove Nick is correct.
  created: '2005-11-28 22:16:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'well not that hrant really has an opinion on this, i was just making a joke.
    but the argument goes like this: "so are all those people that use a PC not creatives?"
    nick''s statement was overly broad, implying that all creatives use macs. Numbers
    Shnumbers.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: piccic
      picture: 110375
    body: "Paul wrote \"nick\u2019s statement was overly broad, implying that all
      creatives use macs.\"\r\n\r\nWell, I would have liked to be there around 1984
      seeing people trying to be creative in graphics-related stuff with a PC.\r\nSituation
      has changed radically, but this does not mean the PC remains the favorite machine
      for the generic user.\r\nThis influences the strategies of sotware producers."
    created: '2005-12-04 14:33:11'
  created: '2005-11-28 22:29:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Paul, there's a difference between being creative and being a Creative.\r\n\r\nWe
    get 'em when they're young; \"This is the design lab with its G5s. You belong
    here. Elsewhere in the university/college they use PCs.\""
  created: '2005-11-28 22:58:39'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: all i know is i hated those days at the newspaper when my mac was crashing
    every 15 minutes. (a <em>slight</em> exaggeration) And if being tech-minded is
    what made FontLab come out with Studio 5 for PC first, i welcome this line of
    thinking.
  created: '2005-11-28 23:20:58'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Hey Yuri and Adam!\r\n\r\nMany thanks for the FOG port for X! I was playing
    with the demo and was kind of surprised to see that you hadn't enabled smooth
    aliasing of the outline forms in either the glyph window or the metrics preview
    window. Is this really a feature enhancement you'd save for the 5.0 version or
    could it have been easily included in this version of the software?\r\n\r\nStuart
    :D"
  created: '2005-11-29 02:52:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm sad to see this previously interesting discussion degenerating into a
    platform war. Yawn. Time to change the channel.\r\n\r\nHowever, having seen sales
    figures for many Adobe products broken down by platform (sorry, the details aren't
    public info), I can say that Mr. Coles' statement that \"sheer numbers prove Nick
    is right\" is really wrong.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-11-29 03:36:24'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "> <em>Undo is there but I [...] don\u2019t know how many steps it supports.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    user definable and limited by available memory. The default setting (as shown
    in the screenshot linked below) is 8 steps. It should be interesting to see how
    far this number can be pushed given the way the OS X handles application-specific
    chunks of memory.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/68169184_90c8d83e07.jpg]\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/splorp/68169184/"
  created: '2005-11-29 04:08:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thomas, licensing an Adobe product does not a creative make.\r\n\r\nNow,
    about the aliasing..."
  created: '2005-11-29 04:21:34'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: Hear, hear Nick. Corporate IT departments commonly mass-license software on
    a CYA basis, fonts included. But, see... we're perpetuating the off-topicness
    again... enough of that.
  created: '2005-11-29 04:26:53'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>It should be interesting to see how far this number can be pushed given
    the way the OS X handles application-specific chunks of memory.</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    been playing around with the demo. I just set it to 100 levels of undo and did
    a little over 100 things, then undid them. It worked right up to the limit I set.
    Not a hiccough. Based on this experiment, I would guess you could set this pretty
    high.\r\n\r\nHaving to specify a number is a bit 1996-ish. The modern thing to
    do would be to simply make it \"unlimited.\""
  created: '2005-11-29 04:30:29'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: Mark, that would be five-point-oh country, I would assume.
  created: '2005-11-29 04:45:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Yuuuuuuri, Yuuuuuuri, Yuuuuuuri, Yuuuuuuri, Yuuuuuuri, \r\nYuuuuuri, Yuuuuuri,
    Yuuuuuri, Yuuuuuri, Yuuuuuri\r\nYuuuuri, Yuuuuri, Yuuuuri, Yuuuuri, Yuuuuri, \r\nYuuuri,
    Yuuuri, Yuuuri, Yuuuri, Yuuuri, \r\nYuuri, Yuuri, Yuuri, Yuuri, Yuuri, \r\nYuri,
    Yuri, Yuri, Yuri, Yuri!\r\n\r\n1. Saved by the Elephants!\r\n2. A NEW \u201CChange
    Weight\u201D command! will that be for a selection of points, a whole glyph, and
    selection of glyphs, all from a single pick? (Will it still do the action on a
    glyph if nothing is selected?. i.e treating the selection of nothing the same
    as the selection of all? Just curious!)\r\n3. Interpolation without scripting?
    Goal! \r\n4. Pen tool, yes, that's the one that looks like a fountain pen nib,
    to be precise. Maybe it's a fontain pen now though. Unless the tolerance is an
    ameoba's you-know-what, no it does not insert points.\r\n5. \"turn everything
    off\" then we can see everything!\r\n6. 'till then auto-save every 5 seconds.\r\n7.
    \"Set counterclockwise (Type 1) direction\u201D now I remember! Thanks, I keep
    loosing this unhandy command. I know, keyboard macros would help here, but it
    should be top level stuff, replace Reverse All and I'll be happy. In effect, this
    would put the \"let me change font format\" out in the goop somewhere, and bring
    the letter drawing fix-it you may need 30 times a day in the front window.\r\n8.
    It happens in multi-click zooming, where an inadvertent drag of a pixel or two
    occurs, and the character either becomes really big, or small.   I've not seen
    anyone use FL without having this zooming happen. My suspicion, is that the tolerance
    for zooming to a marquee needs to be 5-10, and it's like 1. Elephants?\r\n9. how
    to select more than one point and merge the contour around it? This is hard to
    describe because with the same tool, you can select a point 5 different ways (that
    I can count on the one hand available, AND there is a preference to set on this
    simple task as well...  ;\u2022) )\r\n10. \"I think you should like FontLab Studio
    5 since it brings some improvements in the UI. \"\r\n\r\nUUUUUUiiiiiiii, UUUUUUiiiiiiii,
    UUUUUUiiiiiiii, UUUUUUiiiiiiii, \r\nUUUUiiiiii, UUUUiiiiii, UUUUiiiiii, UUUUiiiiii,
    \r\nUUUiiiii, UUUiiiii, UUUiiiii, UUUiiiii, \r\nUUiiii, UUiiii, UUiiii, UUiiii,\r\nUUiii,
    UUiii, UUiii, UUiii,\r\n\r\nThanks for all your comments, and now back to making
    sure that grindstone knows it'd've been better never t've been born. :)\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-29 18:25:53'
- author:
    name: .
  body: David, FLStudio has more neato buttons for things like "Reverse All" both
    in PS and TT directions. And you can seriously customise the keyboard shortcuts.
    You can do that in FL4 as well, but in my opinion FLStudio does it much better.
  created: '2005-11-29 18:38:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Will everything that is in the latest FOG become part ofthe Mac version of
    FL5 when it comes out? I am mostly interested in the \"cleanup paths,\" \"bold\",
    and \"outline path\" features. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-29 19:46:41'
- author:
    name: ktinkel
  body: "Thanks for the OS X upgrade \u2014 using Classic was getting pretty annoying
    (FOG was all I had left there).\r\n\r\nHowever, I am having a problem with keyboard
    shortcuts, especially two that I was addicted to: \r\n\r\n\u2022 Option-[ and
    Option-] to move from one character window to the next\r\n\r\n\u2022 Option-arrow
    and Option-shift-arrow to move a selected element either 1 em-unit or 100 (assuming
    the base is set to 10)\r\n\r\nThe online manual suggests these work as they used
    to, but although I have repaired permissions and rebooted a couple of times, they
    do not work in 4.7 here.\r\n\r\nAny way to fix these? Thanks.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n--Kathleen"
  created: '2005-11-29 22:09:57'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: 'Kathleen: thanks. We will check these and provide an update if we can fix
    them.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: ktinkel
    body: "Thanks, Yuri.\r\n\r\nI guess that means that you changed them? Can you
      explain why?\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\n\r\n\r\n--Kathleen"
    created: '2005-11-30 02:57:18'
  created: '2005-11-29 23:10:12'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "I'm happy Fog is back only because it was easier to teach students how to
    use it. We tried FL one semester and students hated it so we switched to Typetool
    when it came out. It works fine, but I miss having a mask or template layer to
    work with. \r\n\r\nPersonally I would never trade FL for Fog. Back around FL3.1
    I might have, but not now. I agree that it's more technical than Fog ever was
    yet I don't see how it couldn't be at this point given the comlexities of Opentype
    and font production. Learning Python, or trying to, is a pain. I still have trouble
    getting a handle on writing something I need.\r\n\r\nMy only complaint about FL
    is the size of nodes and handles. In Fog you could adjust to larger ones and I
    could use that now since my eyesight is slowly going to hell. \r\n\r\nGeorge\r\n\r\nI
    felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2005-11-30 03:14:39'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>My only complaint about FL is the size of nodes and handles. In Fog you
    could adjust to larger ones and I could use that now since my eyesight is slowly
    going to hell.</em>\r\n\r\nyet another thing you can customize in FLS5."
  created: '2005-11-30 03:56:09'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'll just note that I have always heavily customized my FLS 5 interface (with
    beta versions, it's been ~16 months now). I both stick a lot of buttons on the
    toolbars for my favorite actions, and assign more keyboard shortcuts. It's worked
    wonders for my productivity.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-11-30 10:00:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Any way to fix these? Thanks.\"\r\n\r\nKT - I had the same problems with
    cmmd-[ and '-], and the -/+ keys on the numeric keypad zoomed the metrics window
    instead of allowing text input, (like -56)...For a while I could not believe such
    a simple thing (next character), didn't exist just on my FL...\r\n\r\nThen! when
    I upgraded to Tiger, or whatever the latest Mac os is now, right now, everything
    started working just like everybody else' FL. I think, this is bad behavior, but
    I accepted it.\r\n\r\n\"David, FLStudio has more neato buttons for things like
    \u201CReverse All\u201D both in PS and TT directions.\"\r\n\r\nChester - I'm absolutely
    certain there are more neato buttons in FL. thanks. "
  created: '2005-11-30 13:14:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I\u2019m absolutely certain there are more neato buttons in FL. thanks.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    is it clear what all the \"neato\" buttons are for? I would much rather have text
    to tell me or a drop-down menu where I don't have to guess what all the cryptic
    doujiggies on the button are trying to tell me.  We don't need more buttons, we
    need more clarity.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 13:42:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">But is it clear what all the \u201Cneato\u201D buttons are for? I would
    much rather have text to tell me or a drop-down menu where I don\u2019t have to
    guess what all the cryptic doujiggies on the button are trying to tell me.\r\n\r\nAmen.
    As relatively new to FontLab, I love its power but don't appreciate its \"choose
    your own adventure\" approach to menus, where the learner of the program has little
    clue to what does what. I much prefer the InDesign approach, where you can blow
    up menus and put them on a second screen. Then the icons are big and detailed
    enough that you can tell what the hell they mean, or there is text right on the
    button to tell you. \r\n\r\nCome to think of it, it would be excellent if the
    menu items had both an 'expanded' and a 'compact' mode. Then you could expand
    to get details of what does what. I see on Typophile that even very experienced
    users of FontLab hear about a useful feature that they didn't know about. This
    means that the interface could be a great deal improved as far as being learner-friendly
    or learner-accessible. "
  created: '2005-11-30 14:01:56'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Chris, further to Thomas's post: The Toolbar buttons do have \"tooltips\"
    which pop up when you hover over them for a spell, so you can decrypt the doujiggies.
    AND you can also drag individual buttons in the Toolbars. Once I discovered this
    I was happy as a clam: I created a set of Toolbar buttons which I wanted to have
    at all times and none of the ones I didn't. Also, all key commands can be monkeyed
    with using Tools/Customize Keyboard... You can even change standard commands.
    (David will like this too.) My personal additions are: Control-arrows to flop
    shapes horizontally and vertically; Control-O for the OpenType panel; Control-Shift-O
    for OpenType Preview panel; Control-S for Generate Font; Control-R for Reverse
    Contours.\r\n\r\nThe only problem with the Customize Keyboard window is that it's
    not immediately clear how to use it. First, find the command you want to add a
    key command for. Select it. Then select the \"Press new shortcut key\" field.
    Press your desired key combo. If it is already assigned, you will be told; if
    it is available, it will say \"Assigned to: Unassigned\". Then click the little
    check box. Voila! You can have a dozen key commands for the same thing, if you
    are so inclined.\r\n\r\nThe Customize Keyboard window is even more powerful in
    FLStudio, allowing you to list by command if you so desire, which is great."
  created: '2005-11-30 14:07:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Chester,\r\nThanks for your explanation. I hope FLStudio 5 for Mac will be
    out soon so I can try it out.\r\nI never like the \"explosion in an icon factory\"
    approach to GUI (MS Office is an abomination to me). I wish I could make my own
    icons which would be just plain 10 pt Verdana text:-) \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 14:26:04'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "There you have if Chris! A Skinnable FLab Studio 5! I'd love to add my own
    icons and build my own bars!\r\n\r\n:D"
  created: '2005-11-30 14:41:41'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "I'd like to tell that FLS5 not only has customizable menus, toolbars and
    keyboard shortcuts but also can export and import these \"workspaces\". So if
    you think that your environment in FLS is ideal, you can share it with others.\r\n\r\nSame
    is true for all other preferences - it is possible to store all settings in a
    file and send it to somebody."
  created: '2005-11-30 14:58:02'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Let's have a big hand for Yuri! Woohoo!
  created: '2005-11-30 15:07:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: I have another 10. When people get tired of these ten, just scream.
  created: '2005-11-30 15:29:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Yuri.  I hope FL5 Mac will be a Christmas present?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 15:35:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I have another 10. ...\"\r\n\r\nDavid, lay them on us dude :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 15:36:49'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Another thing about this:\r\nhttp://www.fontlab.com/Font-tools/Product-Comparison-Chart/\r\nIt
    leaves out a lot of BASIC things that are important to note about the various
    tools. E.G. TypeTool does not, (or did not)  have layers, like MASK, last time
    I checked. This and a few other carefully deleted functions makes that particular
    \"student\" tool unsuited for use in a teaching environment for the same reason
    you can't teach with a book that's missing critical chapters. Not having the ability
    to compare the old and new shapes of letters in a layered environment is fatal
    to any type drawing tool going back to paper (where we always had the other side).
    I raised this issue last year at this time, in what must be a dead letter box
    at Ted's office. Then, I went off a tought my class without a standard tool, letting
    them buy whatever they wanted, which was a huge waste of time I did not repeat
    this year."
  created: '2005-11-30 15:42:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "David,\r\nWhere do you teach?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 15:44:49'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Hey Yuri,\r\n\r\nI didn't hear back on the smooth aliasing for the preview
    windows for glyphs and metrics . . . Is it doable to make a quick mod for FOG
    4.7 or is this significant functionality for a future version?\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2005-11-30 16:49:55'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "Stuart: It is not easy (or may be not possible) to do smoothing in Fog. Fog
    4.7 is the same old Fog 4 just made compatible with OS X, not much more. Next
    version which will be merged with FontLab Studio will certainly have everything
    smooth.\r\n\r\nSpeaking about bad shortcuts for prev-next character and point
    movement: it is confirmed bug to be fixed in 4.7.1.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ktinkel
    body: "Thank you, Yuri! Dare we ask when?\r\n\r\nMeanwhile, there are a couple
      of others:\r\n\r\n\u2022 Command T (should be Fit in Window, now, bizarrely,
      Merge point)\r\n\r\n\u2022 Command M (should definitely be Merge point; now
      nothing at all)\r\n\r\nDo you think those could also be fixed? Thanks.\r\n\r\n\r\n--Kathleen"
    created: '2005-12-01 02:09:23'
  - author:
      name: peterbruhn
      picture: 110509
    body: "<cite>It is not easy (or may be not possible) to do smoothing in Fog. Fog
      4.7 is the same old Fog 4 just made compatible with OS X, not much more. Next
      version which will be merged with FontLab Studio will certainly have everything
      smooth.</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease, please make that an \"on/off-button\"-thing. \r\nFor
      some reason it's much easier to see the quality of the curve without anti-alias,
      than when it's on."
    created: '2005-12-01 14:30:31'
  created: '2005-11-30 17:41:02'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Thanks for the reply Yuri! - I wasn't sure if it was the way the original
    programmers developed the preview codebase or if it was simply the state of the
    graphic design industry codebase at that time. I seem to recall the jump from
    anti-aliased to aliased preview in Illustrator sometime around version 5.5-6.0.\r\n\r\nI
    was hoping it was an OS and codebase issue that was simply a part of the build
    of the final application. . .\r\n\r\nRegardless I will look for the updated FOG
    integration with Fontlab Studio . . . BTW, will this integration be offered in
    the first Macintosh port with the Windows update to follow since Studio 5 is already
    available to Windows users?\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2005-11-30 18:04:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"There you have if Chris! A Skinnable FLab Studio 5!\"\r\n\r\nNo skin off
    my nose :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-11-30 18:11:13'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\r\nNick: \r\n> \u201CThis is the design lab with its G5s. You belong here.
    \r\n> Elsewhere in the university/college they use PCs.\u201D\r\n\r\nIn my country
    it reads: \"This is the lab with Windows computers that communicate in my native
    language, provide documentation in my native language, a spelling checker and
    hyphenation for my native language, and actually provide customer support in my
    country rather than through international call center. This is where the Creatives
    live. Next to it, we have the Mac lab for the new-rich pretentious swanks, everything
    in English only.\" I'm not kidding, and I'm surely not trying to attack anybody.
    This is really how it works in my native country. \r\n\r\nThe point I'm trying
    to make is that a lot of the aspects in the Mac-Windows flame wars is \"culturally
    acquired\" rather than \"inherent\". \r\n\r\nPaul: \r\n> And if being tech-minded
    is what made FontLab come out \r\n> with Studio 5 for PC first, i welcome this
    line of thinking.\r\n\r\nThis has really just pragmatic reasons. Yuri, who is
    the mastermind of the Fontlab Ltd. operation, is a very experienced Windows programmer.
    He prototypes and then implements new ideas and features on Windows. Later, he
    passes on his code to the Mac developers who adapt the code to Mac, make the necessary
    alternations and of course add some creative parts that are often Mac-only. \r\n\r\nWilliam
    Berkson: \r\n> I don\u2019t appreciate its \u201Cchoose your own adventure\u201D
    approach to menus\r\n\r\nI really think that we did some logical improvements
    to the menu structure in FontLab Studio 5 as compared to FontLab 4.6. The feedback
    on this has been overall very positive and I personally worked hard to clean up
    the menu structure. \r\n\r\nYuri wrote: \r\n> I\u2019d like to tell that FLS5
    not only has customizable \r\n> menus, toolbars and keyboard shortcuts but also
    \r\n> can export and import these \u201Cworkspaces\u201D. So if you \r\n> think
    that your environment in FLS is ideal, you can \r\n> share it with others.\r\n\r\nYes,
    we really hope that you guys out there will share the user interface layouts with
    us, and others. In FontLab Studio 5, it's easy to shape your user interface the
    way you want it and then export these settings into a file. We'll be collecting
    these files and then -- if you give permission -- we'll just bundle these presets
    with the next version of FontLab Studio. So when a regular user installs the application,
    he'll be able to choose the default workspace, or the David Berlow workspace,
    or the John Hudson workspace or the chester workspace. \r\n\r\nDavid: \r\n> This
    and a few other carefully deleted functions makes \r\n> that particular \u201Cstudent\u201D
    tool unsuited for use in \r\n> a teaching environment\r\n\r\nWe're currently in
    the planning phase of TypeTool 3. We have heard the feedback about the mask layer.
    But please write up your thoughts on TypeTool and send them to us (you can send
    them directly to me at adam at fontlab dot com). Now is the right time to do it!
    \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nAdam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-11-30 18:40:37'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Stuart, on pre-OS X Macs, other than fonts, anti-aliasing of graphics was
    implemented independently by each application developer. Under OS X, a developer
    can take advantage of anti-aliasing support through Aqua, but for cross-platform
    applications, this is probably not a viable option since Aqua is a Mac-only thing.
  created: '2005-11-30 18:42:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The feedback on this has been overall very positive and I personally worked
    hard to clean up the menu structure.\r\n\r\nThanks so much, Adam, for working
    on this. I will buy FLS shortly, and look forward to the new structure. "
  created: '2005-11-30 18:56:30'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "Kathleen: certainly we will bring all Fog 4.1 shortcuts back. They are changed
    by mistake: different, experimental set of shortcuts get into the beta and final
    releases. For some reason it was left unnoticed by our own Q&A and beta testers.\r\n\r\nWe
    hope to release 4.7.1. update in about a week."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ktinkel
    body: "Yuri \u2014 in a week? That\u2019s lovely.\r\n\r\nNow I have another problem,
      for which there may be a trick: How do you get FOG 4.7 to import an image from
      Illustrator CS2? I thought I read that it could be in .ai format, but I also
      tried .eps \u2014 no luck. (It was possible long ago, using the Option key somehow,
      but it doesn\u2019t seem to work now.)\r\n\r\nThanks.\r\n\r\n--Kathleen"
    created: '2005-12-01 20:18:29'
  created: '2005-12-01 11:20:24'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "<cite>For some reason it\u2019s much easier to see the quality of the curve
    without anti-alias, than when it\u2019s on.</cite>\r\n\r\nPeter, could you explain
    what you mean by the \"quality\" of the curve? I find that an anti-aliased shape
    shows off its mistakes and dents much more clearly."
  children:
  - author:
      name: peterbruhn
      picture: 110509
    body: "<cite>For some reason it\u2019s much easier to see the quality of the curve
      without anti-alias, than when it\u2019s on.\r\nPeter, could you explain what
      you mean by the \u201Cquality\u201D of the curve? I find that an anti-aliased
      shape shows off its mistakes and dents much more clearly.<cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe
      it's just me working too long withouth anti-aliasing. For some reason I imagine
      I can see how smooth the curve is better without the anti-aliasing. I've found
      myself returning to FOG after trying to draw in Flab just to check the curves.
      But I might be the only one."
    created: '2005-12-01 19:41:12'
  created: '2005-12-01 15:57:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Dez, I taught at the Art Institute of Boston's undergraduate program for
    3 years. \r\nReally, another 10!? Oakydokey:\r\n\r\n1. The \"foreground\" or \"outline
    layer is usually reserved for that which is to be made into the contours of the
    output font. Layers were created to keep guidelines and other junk out of the
    way of the drawing process. What is this red guideline on the outline layer for?\r\n\r\n2.
    Sometimes, I want to have one off curve point twixt two on curve points. Some
    people may not, but the option is technically legal. If I select and delete one
    of the two-off-curve points between two on curve points the other off-curve point
    is deleted too. Why?\r\n\r\n3. If I open a new font, where do the bitmap images
    of Times come from? What layer are they on? Same thing when I paste an eps. Where
    does it go? I see it, but I can't move it. The initial Times bitmaps disappear
    when I \"activate\" that glyph's cell. Where do they go? \r\n\r\n4. There is a
    selection option that puts a \"Framework\" around the contour(s) I've selected.
    This framework seems to allow the same things as regular scaling, and maybe something
    else but I don't know. If I never ever want this kind of selection to occur, how
    do I avoid it entirely and forever?\r\n\r\n5. The points are too small. Did I
    mention that, or did someone else? Do these have to be original to all threads
    or can I repeat them cross-thread? ;)\r\n\r\n6.  Fetch me a component: \"select
    a Component Glyph\"  The options to finish the job of finding a component from
    my typed input are: \"begins with\", \"ends with\", \"equal to\", \"Less than\"
    and \"greater than\". Does \"Contains\" fit into the \"Less Than\" category? What
    would be an example of something you'd type that'd be \"greater than\" what you
    found? Am I in a Seinfeld episode?\r\n\r\n7. Double points on top of each other,
    as in a start and finish point in the same location, were pass\xE9 when Ikarus
    did it. If my understanding of this is correct, and I've gotten used to one point
    for both start and end since 1983, the beginning/end of contour Should behave
    exactly the same as any other point on the contour. Possible?\r\n\r\n8. By default,
    objects from other layers should not be selectable. E.G the Metrics plain allows
    the wand tool. Select nearest contour...then what?\r\n\r\n9. Back at that pesky
    pen tool: when I input a point, and then \"depress the shift key\" while inputting
    another point, I expect to form the nearest straight line, or 45 degree angle
    from the first input point, to the current input point. This is the standard interface
    for all Bezier drawing programs except the one I use, FontLab 4.6 for the Mac.
    Why?\r\n\r\n10. Input, should always become the selection, Shouldn't it? I.E.
    If I have a contour selected, and I grab the exacto blade tool, (even though it'll
    be gone soon, maybe), and I insert a point on that selected contour, the point
    I just inserted should become the selection, and the contour that was selected
    should not. No? \r\n"
  created: '2005-12-01 16:31:43'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Kathleen, it seems to be that you can do a "Clipboard Copy" from ILL to FOG.
    You have to make sure that your ILL preferences are right - Yuri posted about
    this elsewhere on this site - meaning you don't want your clipboard contents to
    be in PDF format, but in AICB format. With this set correctly, you should be able
    to copy and paste freely between applications.
  created: '2005-12-01 20:32:57'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: 'Peter: antialiasing can be turned off in Fontlab. Just check properties for
    Glyph window.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: peterbruhn
      picture: 110509
    body: "\r\nI haven't been able to work in the OSx cerison until now\r\nand noticed
      one thing:\r\n\r\nWhy has the short command for Merge point changed?\r\n\r\nIt
      used to be  \"commando+M\" now it's \"commando+T\"\r\n\r\nIs there any other
      short commands that changed \r\nthat I just haven't had time to notice yet?\r\nIs
      there a way to get it back to \"commando+M\"?\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2005-12-08 13:05:52'
  created: '2005-12-02 09:27:02'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: Amen. I want the David Berlow edition of FL5. -- Randy
  created: '2005-12-08 13:20:59'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: 'Peter: Fog 4.7.1 is released. Please, contact our support for update.'
  created: '2005-12-09 16:34:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> a lot of the aspects in the Mac-Windows flame wars is \u201Cculturally
    acquired\u201D rather than \u201Cinherent\u201D.\r\n\r\nAdam, I agree. And it's
    interesting that PCs are the creatives' choice in Eastern Europe, topsy-turvy,
    ennit?\r\n\r\nBut I think FontLab has been (and continues to be) somewhat blind
    to the cultural reality in a large section of its marketplace -- the community
    of Mac-based, Fontographer-using type designers.\r\n\r\nIf FontLab is to shake
    its reputation as a techie's production tool, rather than a creative's design
    tool, it could start by holding off on the release of new versions until the Mac
    developers have finished, and release both PC and Mac versions at the same time.\r\n\r\nNote
    that I am talking about it's reputation. \r\n\r\nHaving said that, change is always
    difficult. Going from System 6 to System 7 was nasty. Going from Photoshop 5 to
    6 (somewhere around there) involved a lot of mental re-programming. And so does
    going from Fog 1994 to Flab 2004.\r\n\r\nSorting out how which of Flab's features
    can be customized so that they are like Fog's from which Fog features Flab doesn't
    have is a job of work. I note that there are both kinds on DB's latest list. It
    really does drive one up the wall trying to figure out how to customize a certain
    feature, only to realize it's not possible.\r\n\r\nThat's why this thread is useful.
    In fact, it would be helpful to have a chart of comparable Fog vs. Flab features,
    showing how to achieve a Fog feature in Flab, or whether it's possible. Sort of
    like Adobe's \"inDesign Conversion Guide\" booklet for switching from Quark XPress.\r\n\r\nMy
    two biggest \"wishes' for Flab:\r\n\r\n1. Constrain paths to x/y axis with shift
    key (as per DB #9)\r\n2. An \"expand stroke\" feature that works as beautifully
    as Fog's.\r\n\r\nOther than that, I'm plodding along, getting a smidgeon more
    comfortable with Flab every day."
  created: '2005-12-09 19:28:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My biggest wish for FL is that it be less buggy.  Maybe this is a Mac only
    problem.  It is rare that the ported product is as clean as the original.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-10 01:55:55'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: Fontographer 4.7 for OS X is not very different from 4.1 for OS 9 Classic.
    I have tried it in the demo form, and find two things wrong. Firstly, the guidelines
    are black not the grey in 4.1. or green in FL. Second, templates of scanned images
    placed are also black, not grey as in 4.1. In FontLab the template images are
    in grey, so why not in Fontographer? Why not have guides in another color in Fontographer
    as in FontLab? I will most likely be getting FL in the near future along with
    Scanfont. I've used, and continue to use Fontographer as well as TypeTool 2. I'd
    like to use Fontog in OS X but can't see it until these problems are corrected.
    Also don't like anti-aliasing turned off - can it be turned on from the menu?
    Type Tool and FL are at least nice to look at. Any ideas?
  created: '2005-12-10 02:33:43'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Also don\u2019t like anti-aliasing turned off \r\n> can it be turned on
    from the menu? \r\n\r\nIt was never \"on\" in Fontographer so it cannot be \"turned
    on\". The procedures used to display glyph images in Fontographer are the same
    developed back in the 1990s at Macromedia, and they're entirely different from
    what you see in the \"FontLab family\" of products, that is AsiaFont Studio, FontLab
    Studio, FontLab 4.6 and TypeTool 2 -- which are all related. \r\n\r\nAs we stated
    numerous times, the goal of Fontographer 4.7 was to make the existing Fontographer
    Mac OS X-compatible. A few crucial bugfixes were made and the user interface was
    slightly refereshed but largely, it is the same editor -- with all its pros and
    contras. \r\n\r\nWe do have plans to release Fontographer 5 in future which will
    include functional changes and improvements, and we're gathering feeback for that
    (see http://www.fontlab.com/Fontographer/Fontographer/Fontographer-Support-and-Future/
    ). If you want antialiasing, please suggest it there. \r\n\r\nRegards, \r\nAdam\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jordy
      picture: 110518
    body: "Thanks Adam for your input. I will do as you suggest and forward my feedback
      on to you. I certainly appreciate what you are doing and will do in the future
      with all of your products.\r\n\r\nBest\r\nJordan"
    created: '2005-12-12 14:17:06'
  created: '2005-12-10 02:52:00'
date: '2005-11-28 04:33:25'
title: Native Fontographer for Mac OS X now available

---
