---
author:
  name: Nick Shinn
  picture: 110193
body: "The serifed [[Cyrillic]] alphabet uses many Latin forms, several of which are
  the same in both upper and lower case, but styled differently, with different kinds
  of serif -- for instance c has a straight serif in upper case, a ball in the lower.\r\n\r\nHowever,
  Cyrillic-only characters are generally \"serifed\" the same way in both upper and
  lower case.\r\n\r\nThere have been some departures from this orthodoxy, in particular
  [[Vladimir Yefimov]]'s \"[[Kis]]\" typeface, where the upper case K form has a straight
  top right arm and serif, but a curved-with-ball form in the lower case. \r\n\r\nSo
  I'm wondering, if I were to design a Cyrillic extension in a traditional (Western)
  genre, and introduce subtle differences between upper and lower case serif treatment,
  would indigenous readers think:\r\n\r\n- damn foreigner doesn't know what he's doing\r\n-
  that's cool, just like Yefimov\r\n- didn't notice, as long as it reads smoothly,
  not an issue\r\n\r\nAlso, what has been the reaction to Yefimov's Kis? Is it considered
  a quaint anomaly, or as a provocative new direction?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>for instance c has a straight serif in upper case, a ball in the lower</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is no more true than it would be if you said the same thing about Latin typefaces:
    it is true of some typefaces in some particular styles, but it cannot be made
    a general statement about the script.\r\n\r\nYefimov's Kis is hardly 'a provocative
    new direction': it is an historical re-imagining of Peter the Great's Civil Type,
    considering how it might have looked if the model for the reform had been based
    on the best Dutch types of the day rather than some rather mediocre specimens.
    I recommend Vladimir's essay in <em>Language Culture Type</em>, which explains
    the whole context for his Kis type.\r\n\r\nIt is important to understand what
    details in Cyrillic letterforms are appropriate to which styles and why. There
    is a tendency for beginners dealing with the script to cut and paste ideas things
    they've seen in various different Cyrillic types without understanding the stylistic
    relationships. This results in hodge-podge designs in which, to make a Latin comparison,
    the ball terminal from a Bodoniesque romantic type gets stuck in the middle of
    a Jensonesque renaissance design. Done deliberately, it might be made to work
    as some kind of post-modernist exercise, but it is usually done in ignorance.\r\n\r\nThese
    comments, of course, apply to any script: they all have their own histories and
    stylistic evolutions and periods. Sometimes, these styles coordinate very closely
    to parallel developments in the Latin script, but sometimes not."
  created: '2005-12-01 20:36:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks John. I'm familiar with Yefimov's essay, and noted how he described
    starting off with the usual matching details in K for upper and lower case, and
    then changed them to be different. This is what prompted me to consider that his
    \"historical reimagining\" might be novel. \r\n\r\nSo my question stands, do Russians
    consider his historical reimagining to be quaint, a travesty, post-modern, or
    not worth bothering about? "
  created: '2005-12-01 22:08:27'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "I can't add anything intelligent to this conversation, except to quote Gary
    Munch, <em>Ya, Arrr!</em> =)\r\n\r\n(He was talking about the tendency to think
    the Cyrillic Ya is the same as the Latin R, but flipped.)\r\n\r\nThe question
    of cultural sensitivity is an interesting one. Whenever I tell a Russian that
    I speak (barely) the language I'm usually met with first a twinge of suspicion
    and then of pleasant surprise. (\"You mean you were offered something other than
    French, Spanish or German in high school?\") It's almost always a pleasant interaction,
    the fact that someone would go out of their way to seek out their language and
    learn about the culture.\r\n\r\nI bet designing Cyrillic would be welcomed --
    \"Hey, somebody is interested in my culture, that's cool.\" And even if you make
    some mistakes you'll at least have learned it better."
  created: '2005-12-01 22:34:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Equivalent of U&lc\" was what I thought Nick meant at first read.  My error
    brings to mind a related question--My daughter took 4 years of Russian in high
    school. Somewhere along the way, she titled one of her papers (typed in Cyrillic)
    in U&lc. Her native Russian teacher informed her that this was never done and
    that she had to change the title to all caps.  Is this the norm or just the individual
    preference of my daughter's teacher?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maxim Zhukov
      picture: 110611
    body: "<em>Is this</em> [headings in all caps] <em>the norm or just the individual
      preference of my daughter\u2019s teacher?</em>\r\n\r\nThis sounds like a typing
      convention to me. Remember, not too long ago using all caps for headings was
      standard, in all languages/scripts that use upper and lower case characters
      (English, for one)."
    created: '2005-12-01 23:32:25'
  created: '2005-12-01 22:54:39'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<em>do Russians consider his</em> [Yefimov's] <em>historical reimagining
    to be quaint, a travesty, post-modern, or not worth bothering about?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    do not consider the treatment of the u.c. <strong>\u041A</strong> and the l.c.
    <strong>\u043A</strong> in Kis BT any of the above. Cannot speak for all Russians,
    though.\r\n\r\nIn fact, the use of two differently-styled terminals in those letters'
    arms (in the same typeface) is by no means Yefimov's invention, or discovery.
    Check, for example, two typefaces designed by Pavel Kuzanyan -- <a href=\"http://www.paratype.ru/ru/library/newstyles.asp?fontcode=PT_KZN\"><em>Kuzanyan</em></a>
    (1959/2001) and <a href=\"http://www.paratype.ru/ru/library/newstyles.asp?fontcode=PT_NEV\"><em>Neva</em></a>
    (1970/2002). By the way, some style details of both Kuzanyan's designs can be
    traced, at least in part, to the same source as Yefimov's <em>Kis BT</em>--the
    Civil Type of Peter the Great, and the early Cyrillics of the post-Petrine period.
    There should be more examples of a similar treatment of those glyphs.\r\n\r\nThe
    <a href=\"http://www.fonts.ru/E-ZINE/issue04/pictures/peter_5.gif\">larger size</a>
    of Civil Type featured <strong>\u041A</strong> and <strong>\u043A</strong> with
    the flat top serifs. The arms of the <strong>\u041A</strong> and <strong>\u043A</strong>
    in the <a href=\"http://www.fonts.ru/E-ZINE/issue04/pictures/peter_6.gif\">medium-size</a>
    Civil Type terminate in ball finials.\r\n\r\nI feel, the title of this thread
    calls for some kind of terminal punctuation. Maybe a question mark. Or a question
    mark <em>and</em> an exclamation point.  Thusly: <em>Cyrillic: equivalence of
    upper and lower case [?!]</em>. Square brackets are optional..."
  created: '2005-12-01 23:25:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"This sounds like a typing convention to me.\"\r\n\r\nThanks Maxim. I thought
    so after seeing some other Russian typography. I will tell my daughter :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-02 01:24:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">The larger size of Civil Type featured \u041A and \u043A with the flat top
    serifs. The arms of the \u041A and \u043A in the medium-size Civil Type terminate
    in ball finials.\r\n\r\nIn my experiments with Cyrillic so far, that seems to
    produce the best color for each case."
  created: '2005-12-02 04:31:22'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "<em>In my experiments with Cyrillic so far, that seems to produce the best
    color for each case.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich?"
  created: '2005-12-02 11:36:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I think it's an \"x-height thing\" and is independent of script, \r\ni.e.i.m.h.o.
    that ball-ed k would be for better for reading. "
  created: '2005-12-02 13:32:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Which?\r\n\r\nI agree, David, the balls have it for text.\r\n\r\nAs my Cyrillic
    is an extension to a Latin face in the didone genre, it already has a fair sprinkling
    of balled terminals in the lower case. In this genre, the only upper case Latin
    balled character is the J; it seems that balls detract from the austere dignity
    of the capitals.\r\n\r\nWith the exception of the Y (cyrillic U) and El, Yefimov
    has no balled terminals in his Kis upper case, yet in the lower case in addition
    to the latin y and c, he has put balls on el (as in UC), and zhe, k, and ze (different
    from UC). \r\n\r\nThis is unlike Cyrillic didones such as ITC Bodoni, and Yefimov's
    earlier Didona, where there is case-consistency for balled-terminal characters\r\n\r\nAlthough
    the Kis typeface is not a didone, I'm liking the way it works, and thinking that
    it is the route to go. I might even go further in this general direction, and
    put flourished descenders on lower-case tse and shcha, but \"tick\" descenders
    on their UC counterparts.\r\nWould that be too \"hodge-podge\", Maxim?\r\n\r\nI'm
    also considering varying the shape of de and el, making them isosceles in the
    lower case, and right-leaning in the UC. But that might be a bit much.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    studying Bodoni's Manuale (Octavo CD) for a decision from the master is pretty
    futile, as GB riffs through umpteen variations in different sizes, with nothing
    definitive. However, it is extremely enlightening, as one gets to assess options,
    and see how they work in context. Manuale = Laboratorio."
  created: '2005-12-02 17:11:44'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "> <em>my Cyrillic is an extension to a Latin face in the didone genre</em>\r\n>
    <em>Although the Kis typeface is not a didone, I\u2019m liking the way it works,
    and thinking that it is the route to go</em>\r\n\r\nYour logic defies me. Why
    is it \"the route to go\"? In what way the features of Kis, a Baroque typeface,
    could be applicable to a neoclassical design? Nick, I am not being dogmatic or
    pedantic: of course, exceptions exist. I just don't get it.\r\n \r\n> <em>I might
    even go further in this general direction, and</em> [...] \r\n> <em>Would that
    be too \u201Chodge-podge\u201D, Maxim?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. \r\n\r\n> <em>I\u2019m
    also considering varying the shape of de and el, making them isosceles in the
    lower case, and right-leaning in the UC. But that might be a bit much.</em>\r\n\r\nWithout
    doubt... The isosceles pattern in the construction of the <strong>\u0414</strong>,
    <strong>\u0434</strong>, <strong>\u041B</strong> and <strong>\u043B</strong> is
    more inherent in the Old-Style designs. And the right-triangle scheme is used
    in most classical Moderns of the 19th century. It's like the two patterns of the
    capital <strong>M</strong>: the one with the slanted sides works better in Old
    Styles, and the one with the vertical sides looks at home in Moderns.\r\n\r\nAs
    to Bodoni's own Cyrillics, you are right, there is not much definitive to them.
    They feel, and were, rather tentative. Russian typefaces of 1810s\u20131850s look
    like more valuable models. Of the ParaType library  <a href=\"http://www.paratype.com/asearch/ptdescription.asp?page=descr&fcode=PT_ELZ\"><em>Elizabeth</em></a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.paratype.com/pstore/default.asp?search=ITC+Bodoni+72&fcode=PT_B72\"><em>ITC
    Bodoni 72</em></a> seem to offer good references in designing a Cyrillic didone
    if you want it authentic and credible."
  created: '2005-12-03 00:54:12'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'm confused by this reference to \"the isosceles pattern\" for something
    that's not a triangle. Wouldn't \"the trapezoid pattern\" be a more accurate/useful
    way to refer to it, seeing as it has four sides? (sometimes one of them is virtual,
    when it's an open shape)\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-12-04 01:16:19'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: Thomas, I understand "isosceles" to refer to the angles at the base, not the
    triangularity of the top. If one were being super-precise, one would refer to
    the shape Maxim is describing as an <a href="http://mathworld.wolfram.com/IsoscelesTrapezoid.html">isosceles
    trapezoid</a>. Similarly, the other common style would be technically a "right
    trapezoid" rather than a "right triangle," but the usage is uncommon enough that
    "right triangle scheme" is probably the clearest way to describe it.
  created: '2005-12-04 01:58:54'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "The trapezoid pattern in the construction of the <strong>\u0414</strong>,
    <strong>\u0434</strong>, <strong>\u041B</strong> and <strong>\u043B</strong> is
    a later development. In Russian typefaces of the first half of the 19th century
    (<a href=\"http://www.whitemouse.ru/font/img/61_1.gif\">Selivanovsky's</a>, <a
    href=\"http://b.alt.udsu.ru/mirror/_rus/www.hi-edu.ru/e-books/AK/images/0033-021.jpg\">Semen's</a>
    and others) the right-triangle, <em>not</em> the trapezoid pattern was used.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-04 03:32:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">> I might ... put flourished descenders on lower-case tse and shcha, but
    \u201Ctick\u201D descenders on their UC counterparts.\r\nWould that be too \u201Chodge-podge\u201D,
    Maxim?\r\n\r\n>Yes.\r\n\r\nYou're giving me mixed advice, Maxim.\r\nFirst you
    say don't do that, and then you recommend a typeface, Elizabeth, which has exactly
    that feature!\r\n\r\nAnyway, thanks for introducing me to the beautiful Elizabeth,
    and straightening me out about the appropriate structure for de and el. I had
    tried all three variants -- isosceles, right triangle, and trapezoid -- and wasn't
    happy with the way any of them were behaving. So I redoubled my efforts with the
    right triangle, and now the characters look fine. The right triangle really does
    harmonize with the didone style.\r\n\r\n>In what way the features of Kis, a Baroque
    typeface, could be applicable to a neoclassical design?\r\n\r\nIt's the idea that
    Cyrillic characters can have slightly different treatments in upper and lower
    case. I've since discovered that this idea exists in the Elizabeth (swash descenders
    on lower case tse and shcha, but not on the caps) and Bodoni 72 (round terminal
    on lower case k, straight on upper case K).\r\n\r\nI like the idea that there
    should be such a differentiation between upper and lower case, with the lower
    case having rounder, fuller details, and the upper case being more severe and
    austere. No doubt this is because I am used to it in the Latin script. It is also
    a feature of Greek, and even some Cyrillic character forms, such as Be.  So, I
    have discovered precedents in period Didone typefaces, and I have collected them
    together and used then in my Cyrillic. Perhaps my taste in this matter could be
    considered as designing with a Latin accent.\r\n\r\nI will post an example when
    \"Insert image\" is working again."
  created: '2005-12-04 07:50:34'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "> <em>You\u2019re giving me mixed advice, Maxim</em>.\r\n\r\nI am very sorry
    for the confusion. I should have made it clearer that my referring to the design
    of Elizabeth was mostly in conjunction with the construction pattern of the <strong>\u0414</strong>,
    <strong>\u0434</strong>, <strong>\u041B</strong> and <strong>\u043B</strong>.
    I did not mean to say that <em>everything</em> in the typefaces I referred to
    is perfect (just have a look at the very so-so figures in Elizabeth).\r\n\r\nI
    consider the inconsistency in the treatment of hanging terminals (of the <strong>\u0426</strong>/<strong>\u0446</strong>
    and <strong>\u0429</strong>/<strong>\u0449</strong>) a <em>peculiarity</em> of
    Elizabeth's design, that may be seen, alternatively, as either charming, or quirky,
    or annoying, etc., but not necessarily archetypal, exemplary, and commendable.\r\n\r\n>
    <em>Cyrillic characters can have slightly different treatments in upper and lower
    case</em>. [...] <em>I like the idea that there should be such a differentiation
    between upper and lower case</em>, [...]. <em>No doubt this is because I am used
    to it in the Latin script</em>.\r\n\r\nNo, Nick, it's not just your personal taste,
    or your background. The diversification of the upper- and lower-case glyphs (the
    subject of this thread, b.t.w.) happens to be one of the central issues in Cyrillic
    type design. It presents most challenge to both the beginners, and  the experienced
    designers. As you've already noticed, the difference in the treatment of the u.-
    and l.c. glyphs ranges from obvious to very complex and subtle. That relationship
    varies, and takes different forms, depending on the style of the typeface. Its
    resolution requires substantial analytical skills, knowledge and sensitivity.
    This is why the mix-and-match approach, referred to by John Hudson (above), is
    by no means a solution.\r\n\r\nGood luck\r\n\r\n<em>ps</em>: Have you tried the
    small caps yet? :)"
  created: '2005-12-04 16:00:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"ps: Have you tried the small caps yet? :)\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!! That is your
    best ever Maxim :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-04 17:18:20'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Maxim,\r\n\r\nThanks for reminding me of this other shape, which I had completely
    forgotten, and for providing links. Images are always helpful.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    it is not an iscosceles triangle - an isosceles triangle as (at least) two equal
    sides. So no right angle triangle can be an isosceles triangle. So the isosceles
    form would be the one where the two vertical-ish sides of the letter are equal
    (and at equal angles) and the base is different.\r\n\r\nSo, I'll just call it
    a right-angle triangle with a vertical right side, and note that there are three
    basic forms of the letter, and we'll all be clear....\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maxim Zhukov
      picture: 110611
    body: "Phew... And now when we're all clear on the three basic forms of the <strong>\u0414</strong>,
      <strong>\u0434</strong>, <strong>\u041B</strong> and <strong>\u043B</strong>.
      Thomas, the right[-angled] triangle is not just \"that other shape\". It is
      most important for developing a classy, authentic-looking Cyrillic didone, and
      more. Please note that that pattern was also used in Russian sans- and <a href=\"http://b.alt.udsu.ru/mirror/_rus/www.hi-edu.ru/e-books/AK/images/0040-051.jpg\">slab</a>-serifs
      of the same period, and even in <a href=\"http://b.alt.udsu.ru/mirror/_rus/www.hi-edu.ru/e-books/AK/images/0040-050.jpg\">decorative</a>
      designs."
    created: '2005-12-04 22:51:34'
  created: '2005-12-04 21:22:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">... the mix-and-match approach ... is by no means a solution.\r\n\r\nI'm
    afraid I'll have to differ with you on that philosophical point.\r\nI agree that
    skill, knowledge and sensitivity are important, but don't see why they should
    preclude a \"mix and match\" design strategy.\r\n\r\nIf one has a design theme
    that is assembled from elements in a mix of typefaces, it should be possible to
    match them together (with appropriate massaging) and get them working in a way
    that produces good text colour. That is always the goal. And if these elements
    have already appeared in historical sources, that gives them provenance and authenticity.
    If they are thematically associated (rather than being a peculiarity, as the hanging
    terminals in Elizabeth may be) then they become meaningful and significant, rather
    than haphazard.\r\n\r\nHere's how my theory plays out:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Russ2.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    in more depth, a pdf:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/UN_Poly3.pdf\">Albany
    Cyrillic sample</a>\r\n\r\n>ps: Have you tried the small caps yet? :)\r\n\r\nMany
    a true word is spoken in jest.\r\nWhile some in the West think that the Cyrillic
    lower case already looks like small caps, this applies more to the roman than
    the italic. It's worth bearing in mind that one of the best uses in the West of
    small caps is in layouts where they are contrasted with italic upper and lower
    case. The idea being that the roman lower case is common, so if you want, say,
    a distinguished title page or contents page, then you avoid roman lower case and
    use just caps, small caps, and italics.\r\n\r\nSo, Cyrillic small caps, to be
    used as a contrast face to Cyrillic italic? Yeah, I'll do it."
  created: '2005-12-04 23:14:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>And if these elements have already appeared in historical sources, that
    gives them provenance and authenticity.</em>\r\n\r\nBut they appear in a stylistic
    context, and their authenticity is linked to that context. Once you change the
    context, by mixing and matching forms that are normative to different contexts,
    you lose some of the authenticity and, yes, end up with a hodge-podge of mismatched
    shapes. The typical forms of the major stylistic groupings tend to be the way
    they are for a reason, usually found in the ductus or stroke model of the style
    and consistent across the letters. This is true of pretty much any script, and
    is why it looks odd to mix romantic and renaissance forms in the same Cyrillic
    typeface. Perhaps not as odd nor as culturally alien as mixing ruq'ah and nasta'liq
    forms in an Arabic typeface, but odd nonetheless and certainly not authentic.
    Authenticity cannot be gained simply by using a bunch of details from existing
    Cyrillic typefaces without understanding why a particular shape has been used
    in one place but not in another.\r\n\r\nApart from any other criticisms of the
    mix-n-match approach, it simply isn't necessary: there is plenty of scope for
    new, original and much needed Cyrillic type designs that observe the characteristics
    of the major styles, and if you want to create a new style there are better ways
    to approach the challenge than copying and pasting bits of other styles."
  created: '2005-12-05 05:55:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "...it looks odd to mix romantic and renaissance forms in the same Cyrillic
    typeface.\r\n\r\nThat's not what I'm proposing.\r\nThe descender I'm putting on
    tse and shcha is no different in form than the ascender of the be -- they have
    the same ductus. It's a \"tilde\" shape, and it's also found in the centre of
    the Cyrillic \"E\"s. It also relates to the leg of Zhe, Ka and Ya. \r\n\r\nIt
    bothers me that in many Cyrillic faces, the top of the \"be\" sticks out like
    a sore thumb, its shape not represented elsewhere in the lower case, not even
    echoed. To me, this is a design flaw. That is one reason I have decided to put
    matching descenders on Albany's tse and shcha, to keep that poor lonely be's ascender
    company, waving around in the extender zone. When I first considered doing this,
    I had seen it in Yefimov's Kis, and was later pleased to discover that it was
    also in a bona fide Didone face, Elizabeth. No matter that Maxim considers this
    feature to be peculiar, it is still authentic.\r\n\r\nI've seen enough 19th century
    Cyrillic fonts by now to realize that there was considerable leeway in interpretation
    -- and still is. Yefimov's recent Didona, for instance, has the 'wrong\" kind
    of de and el shape, trapezoidal. But I don't think it looks odd, he manages to
    pull it off, on the strength of extreme fat-face attitude.\r\n\r\n>better ways
    to approach the challenge than copying and pasting bits of other styles.\r\n\r\nAbsolutely.
    I always make all my glyphs from scratch, by eye, and never pirate points or trace
    over scans.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/tails.pdf\">Small tse alternate
    tails (pdf).</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-05 08:03:54'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Maxim,\r\n\r\nHey, it was only \"this other shape\" relative to the two I
    was thinking of - I went on to say that there were three basic shapes. That being
    said, the Didone space is not one that interests me much right now.\r\n\r\nAll,\r\n\r\nHrant
    pointed out to me that (of course - d'oh!) there is a shape that is both a right-angle
    triangle and an isosceles triangle. You cam make it quite easily by taking a square
    and cutting it in half along a diagonal from corner to corner. Of course, the
    base of this shape would seem to be far too large for a de/el, so this is purely
    an geometry issue rather than a practical one for the letters in question.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-12-05 18:33:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thomas,\r\n\r\nQED :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-05 20:02:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Regarding the flourished descender on the \u0446 and \u0449, I disagree with
    the assessment in your PDF that the spike is the 'normal' form. The flourish form
    is perfectly acceptable in certain styles, as you've discovered. Where we disagree
    is about the relationship of the upper- and lowercase forms when this flourished
    descender is used. Normally it would be used for both cases, not just the lowercase,
    leaving only \u0414/\u0434 and \u040F/\u045F with the spike form. [Note, by the
    way, that \u040F/\u045F may have an lacrymal shape instead of a spike, i.e. wider
    at the bottom than at the top.]\r\n\r\nI find the upper arms on your \u0436 and
    \u043A to be stiff and strange: it would be better to follow the Scotch form and
    bend these arms so that the hairline is close to vertical.\r\n\r\nThere are some
    nice things in the Albany design, but the proportions and weights of several letters
    need work. The bowls of the \u0424 and \u0427 should be squarer. Nick, I really
    recommend hiring Maxim to go through a review process on at least one Cyrillic
    design: even if you end up rejecting most of his recommendations regarding design
    characteristics, you will learn a lot about fine tuning the proportion of Cyrillic
    letters relative to each other."
  created: '2005-12-05 20:07:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Where we disagree is about the relationship of the upper- and lowercase
    forms when this flourished descender is used.\r\n\r\nRight. I don't see why it
    has to be consistent between the cases, and it's here that I'm breaking with precedent.
    I realize that this is a face in an historic genre, but people today use old type
    in new ways, and this is particularly so of capitals. Two instances; first is
    drop caps, and second is the tightly leaded layout (with negative leading sometimes).
    In these, descenders on capitals are problematic, they get in the way. Not a problem
    in the 19th century, with an open, letterspaced approach to all-cap settings.\r\n\r\n>I
    find the upper arms on your \u0436 and \u043A to be stiff and strange:\r\n\r\nThey
    started out bent, but I found the effect was too fussy in text, which is why I
    straightened them out, which fixed the problem. \r\n\r\n>The bowls of the \u0424
    and \u0427 should be squarer.\r\n\r\nThanks, I'll try that.\r\n\r\n>I really recommend
    hiring Maxim.\r\n\r\nSorry, I already blew my Greek/Cyrillic development budget
    buying \"Language Culture Type\" :-)"
  created: '2005-12-05 20:53:14'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "> <em>Yefimov\u2019s recent Didona, for instance, has the \u2018wrong\u2019
    kind of de and el shape, trapezoidal.</em>\r\n\r\nThere is nothing wrong--or even
    'wrong'--with the way the <strong>\u0414</strong>, <strong>\u0434</strong>, <strong>\u041B</strong>
    and <strong>\u043B</strong> are treated in <a href=\"http://image3.myfonts.com/textimage/92/92ea87dddf80e490d35ec0c22f66a666.png\">Didona</a>.
    Didona belongs to a younger generation of Moderns--the Victorian designs of the
    second part of the 19th century (that subcategory of <em>didones</em> also includes
    <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/1250/monotypemodern-family.html\">Monotype Modern</a>,
    <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/de-vinne\">Bruce No.11, a.k.a.
    BT DeVinne)</a>, <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/agfa/atmodern-twenty\">Stephenson
    Blake's Modern No.20</a>, and other similar designs). B.t.w., it looks like Nick's
    Albany can be classified as a Victorian Modern.\r\n\r\nAs I already mentioned,
    the <a href=\"http://www.hi-edu.ru/e-books/AK/images/0033-040.jpg\">triangular</a>
    pattern in the construction of the <strong>\u0414</strong>, <strong>\u0434</strong>,
    <strong>\u041B</strong> and <strong>\u043B</strong> is typical for the <a href=\"http://www.hi-edu.ru/e-books/AK/images/0039-039.jpg\"><em>early</em>
    neoclassical</a> Russian typefaces that originated in the 18th century, and fully
    developed in the first half of the 19th century. The serif terminal of the diagonal
    stroke in the <strong>\u041B</strong> and <strong>\u043B</strong> was abandoned,
    and replaced with the bulbous finial. \r\n\r\nAround 1850s the diagonal stroke
    in the <strong>\u0414</strong>, <strong>\u0434</strong>, <strong>\u041B</strong>
    and <strong>\u043B</strong> started shifting off the stem, and sagging. That evolution
    gave birth a new construction patter, trapezoid. That scheme became very popular.
    With time, the angle of the diagonal got steeper, the difference in length between
    the top and the bottom sides decreased. Taken to the extreme in some designs,
    that pattern imparted to the <strong>\u0414</strong>, <strong>\u0434</strong>,
    <strong>\u041B</strong> and <strong>\u043B</strong> a totally degenerate, almost
    <a href=\"http://image3.myfonts.com/textimage/ae/ae1e70efc91160e68d09a8fc82f72533.png\">rectangular
    shape</a>.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-06 03:30:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Albany can be classified as a Victorian Modern.\r\n\r\nIt's a quite literal
    digitization of a face I found in a book published in Albany, New York State,
    in 1869. I think it's by George Bruce. I term this style of face, with the extreme
    stroke contrast, huge serifs, and tiny aperture, \"Scotch modern\", to distinguish
    it from the more restrained didone faces of Didot, Bodoni, and Walbaum. (Font
    Bureau calls it \"Old Modern\".) While it originated in Britain prior to the Victorian
    era, it had its largest popularity in the USA in the second half of the 19th century,
    and well into the 20th.\r\n\r\nThe book I have is a scientific work, so it has
    a pretty full character representation -- but no Greek or Cyrillic.\r\n\r\nSo,
    back to the drawing board (metaphorically speaking), and a bit more trapezoidal."
  created: '2005-12-06 04:40:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Didona belongs to a younger generation of Moderns\u2014the Victorian designs
    of the second part of the 19th century\r\n\r\nI think you are wrong on this Maxim.\r\nIt's
    named Didona, and is closely related to the Didot faces of the early 19th century.\r\nFormally,
    Didona lacks the \"closed aperture/big serif' quality of the later Victorian or
    \"Scotch modern\" -- in this example note the small aperture to the interior space
    of the E in Modern 20, and the \"pot hook\" serif on the a.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Didonas.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    De structure of Didona had been used by Yefimov before, in his version of ITC
    Fat Face, where it is a necessity, as there is no room for a diagonal. (The same
    circumstance led to the interesting lambdas in Dimitris Arvanitis's Modula Tall.)\r\n\r\nI'm
    not discounting your general theory of the evolution of the De shape -- but I
    suspect the evolution was not completely linear and all-encompassing. Despite
    my profound ignorance of Cyrillic type history, I would expect there to have been
    more variance in display faces, and during particularly experimental eras of history,
    as in the West."
  created: '2005-12-06 19:47:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Aside from the issue of correct and faithful rendition of the revival, is
    there anything Nick is doing with his so called \"mix and match\" that hinders
    reading or that would be objectionable if this were not a revival and simply Nick's
    own new design?\r\nI am trying to separate a few things: the nature of the Cyrillic
    script; the nature of the modern didone style; the nature of any typeface to feel
    like a system unto itself; and the nature of a given typeface as a well usable
    tool for reading.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-07 01:10:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "(OT)\r\n\r\nNo wonder Nick and I argue so much - we have a totally different
    aesthetic sense, too!  :)\r\n\r\nThis late 19th century American take on the Didone
    style is something I have long loathed. In my mind, it's like the final degradation
    of the Didone (which I wasn't much into in the first place), riding it into the
    ground and driving every remaining ounce of legibility and taste from it. Or something
    like that.\r\n\r\nThat being said, I of course recognize that this is largely
    a matter of personal taste. Nothing wrong [cringe] with Nick doing a revival here.
    Nope.\r\n\r\n[time to go hide]"
  created: '2005-12-07 02:06:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Nick and I argue so much\r\n\r\nHey, it's Typophile. And at least we don't
    get personal.\r\nBut really, I enjoyed collaborating with you on our TypeCon workshop,
    I thought that went pretty smoothly. We both have a committment to OpenType, since
    the time you helped me out with my article on it a few years ago.\r\n\r\nYou know
    I am a contrarian. \r\nI've had my fill of the 20th century, the incunabula, William
    Morris, the usual suspects.\r\nSo what is there now to amuse my jaded palate?\r\nOf
    course, the one genre that everybody else hates, the Scotch modern!"
  created: '2005-12-07 02:35:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But really, I enjoyed collaborating with you on our TypeCon workshop,\"\r\n\r\nAs
    a student in that workshop I might add that both of your efforts made it quite
    worthwhile for those of us sittin' in the shadows learnin' stuff.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-07 03:23:41'
date: '2005-12-01 17:56:56'
node_type: forum
title: 'Cyrillic: equivalence of upper and lower case ?!'

---
