---
author:
  name: raph
  picture: 109741
body: "Quite a number of things are happening now in the world of free fonts. I've
  been tossing around ideas in my head for a website to foster the development of
  fonts to be released under licenses compatible with free software distribution (as
  opposed to merely \"freeware\" fonts, which is much less interesting). In this post,
  I will set down my vision for what such a site might look like.\r\n\r\nI'm posting
  this on typophile so I can get feedback from the typographic community, and am also
  inviting people from the free software world to weigh in, as well. As such, there
  will probably be some introductions to be made, and I won't be surprised if some
  controversy erupts as well.\r\n\r\n<strong>What's been happening?</strong>\r\n\r\nFor
  those of you who have been following the free font scene closely, this will be old
  news, but there's been quite a lot of activity I want to briefly summarize.\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>The
  TeX User Group <a href=\"http://tug.org/tc/devfund/\">Development   Fund</a> has
  sponsored the completion of two font projects: Hrant's   Baskerville TMF, and my
  Inconsolata.\r\n\r\n<li>SIL has released <a   href=\"http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=Gentium\">Gentium</a>,
  \  an attractive font with good multilingual support, under their new   OFL license.\r\n\r\n<li>The
  Creative Commons project has hired <a   href=\"http://creativecommons.org/about/people#53\">Jon
  Phillips</a>,   someone with a longtime interest in both free software (notably,
  the Inkscape   project) and graphic design.\r\n\r\n<li>The tools available in the
  free software world have been steadily   improving. For example, <a   href=\"http://fontforge.sourceforge.net/\">FontForge</a>,
  while   nowhere nearly as polished as FontLab or Fontographer, has matured   to
  the point where it is definitely usable for creating real fonts.\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nAll
  of these developments bode well for the future of free fonts.\r\n\r\n<strong>What
  would a free font site do?</strong>\r\n\r\nWhile there is a lot of activity, and
  much in the way of existing infrastructure (including typophile itself), there are
  several holes that I believe a new site could fill.\r\n\r\nFirst and foremost, there
  is currently no site that presents free fonts well. There is nothing for free fonts
  like the trial setting features of online font shops. Doing something like the mudTyper
  at <a href=\"http://www.vllg.com/fonts/\">vllg.com</a> would be very exciting, and,
  since the fonts are free, there needn't be any stipple background or other such
  encumbrances.\r\n\r\nA person looking for good free fonts pretty much has to go
  digging, and that means sorting through a great deal of crap. The various \"thousands
  of free fonts\" sites don't do much to help with that.\r\n\r\nIndeed, the major
  theme for my ideal site would be quality. Not just abundance (millions of fonts!)
  or freeness, but quality. When a person posts a really good font, it should be celebrated,
  which of course will also help motivate people to contribute.\r\n\r\nI think an
  emphasis on quality would be a benefit to the entire font community. There are very,
  very few top-quality free fonts, and I'm sure this will continue to be the case
  for a long time. People who are looking for quality can always choose to pay for
  it. My ideal site would gently encourage people to buy fonts if they find no free
  font that meets their needs, with an emphasis on independent foundries. Note that
  this philosophy is fairly different that of many free software proponents, the most
  radical of whom encourage people to use no non-free software at all.\r\n\r\nMany,
  if not most, developers of free fonts will be people who are not yet very skilled
  at the craft of font design, but are trying to learn. My ideal site would invite
  people to post their work, and provide critique, encouragement, and feedback. This
  role of the proposed site overlaps the critique forums on typophile considerably,
  and so should perhaps not be separate. I am continually impressed by the level of
  discussion on the typophile forums. The <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/16550\">Cyrillic
  uc/lc discussion</a> is an excellent recent example of the kind of feedback that
  would be incredibly useful to aspiring, as well as experienced, font developers.\r\n\r\n<strong>Fine-grained
  collaboration</strong>\r\n\r\nOne of the great strengths of the free approach is
  the way it enables collaboration. If I see something I want to improve, there are
  as few barriers as possible standing in my way. Similarly, I don't have to commit
  to a huge project to make an improvement. I can improve a Wiki page in as small
  a way as correcting a single spelling typo, something that might take ten seconds.\r\n\r\nI
  believe this approach to fine-grained collaboration can also work well in the context
  of font development. We already see something much like it with people extending
  existing fonts to cover more scripts, sometimes (as in the <a href=\"http://www.nongnu.org/freefont/\">freefont</a>
  project) but not always above-board. Another tantalizing glimpse at how fine-grained
  collaboration might work is the new 'g' for Matrix from the <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/14378\">Freestyle
  Remix Challenge</a> thread.\r\n\r\nFine-grained collaboration can also be good for
  pedagogy. The craft of font design has intimidatingly many facets. Learners may
  well find it easier to start with just one aspect, such as diacritics or creation
  of small caps. Someone else might decide to tackle spacing (which, as we know, is
  one of the major stumbling blocks for beginners). Again, an improvement may be as
  minor as a single tweak to a kern pair or side bearing, but with a large and active
  user community, these improvements would add up.\r\n\r\nThere are concrete ways
  in which a font development website can foster such fine-grained collaboration.
  Primarily, it can treat a font as something like a Wiki or version-controlled repository.
  If there are multiple versions of the same glyph, it should present the variants
  to the user, and ask for a vote. To be really ambitious, the site could dynamically
  synthesize an .otf file based on choices entered on the Web form (on the backend,
  this would be relatively easy to achieve using the batch scripting capabilities
  of FontForge).\r\n\r\n<strong>Other resources</strong>\r\n\r\nThe Creative Commons
  philosophy includes tending to the body of public domain work in existence, and
  making it readily available. Fortunately, due to the relatively long lifetimes of
  fonts as creative works, we have a fantastic array of public domain materials available.
  I've put a small archive of scans from ATF specimen books <a href=\"http://levien.com/type/\">online</a>
  (and TUG is generously <a href=\"http://tug.org/levienfonts/\">hosting</a> the multigigabyte
  raw archive of 2400 dpi scans). If there is interest, there is plenty more where
  that came from. Among other things, my older son can be hired to do some scanning.
  My experience is that digitizing classics drawn by long-dead masters is a great
  learning experience.\r\n\r\nThe world of free fonts is intimately connected to the
  world of free software tools for publishing. Of these, TeX is the great granddaddy
  of them all, and is still actively used, primarily for mathematics work. One of
  the reasons why TeX rocks out for math is that it natively supports optical scaling,
  so subscripts and superscripts don't look spindly and anemic like they do in almost
  all other math systems. I'd love to see more optically scaled fonts available besides
  Computer Modern, a fairly poor face by typography standards.\r\n\r\nThere are also
  a number of free GUI page layout projects in the works, of which <a href=\"http://www.scribus.org.uk/\">Scribus</a>
  is probably the most polished. They're constantly improving their support for OpenType
  and typographic refinements. A number of good things could come from collaboration
  with this project, not the least of which is a set of kick-ass good default style
  sheets.\r\n\r\nI have to remain a bit vague and secretive about this because I've
  been too busy to file the patent yet, but I expect some cool things to happen in
  the space of free tools for drawing fonts in the next few months. These tools, I
  think, will be especially useful to amateurs who have not climbed the arduous learning
  curve of drawing well with Beziers.\r\n\r\n<strong>Summary</strong>\r\n\r\nMy ideal
  site would encourage development of fonts for distribution under free software licenses.
  It would emphasize quality, especially aspiring font designers who want to learn
  to do better work. It would foster fine-grained collaboration, so that fonts can
  be improved incrementally, both in quality and in script coverage.\r\n\r\nBuilding
  such a site will require a nontrivial amount of resources. Much as it appeals to
  me, I'm nowhere near in a position to be able to launch it myself. However, there
  may well be enough tappable energy to make it happen. Certainly, there are lots
  of people and organizations with an interest in free fonts.\r\n\r\nIs a site along
  the lines I've presented worthwhile? Would you participate as a developer? As a
  user? Which organizations, if any, are prepared to throw their weight behind such
  a project? Who might be willing to put their own time into its development?\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: MichaelD-spammer
  body: "It is quite interesting to read a post which is 5 years old. I mean it is
    interesting to see how people were thinking about internet business in 2005. There
    are plenty of free font websites nowadays, so this idea would not be so successful
    now as it was five years ago. However it helps to understand the ideas of people
    on this question now. \r\nMoreover there are more commercial websites with various
    fonts than free ones now, because the level of website design is very high now
    and free fonts would not be suitable for them at all. People are buying expensive
    pretty fonts for their projects and those who own these websites earn nice sums
    of money. \r\nWhat is the most important thing about successful ideas - you must
    spot them very early. You must think about it when nobody do that, for example
    like your idea with those free fonts. I will definitely bookmark your website
    and search for newer articles to read. Keep writing these ones in the nearest
    future too.\r\n\r\nSincerely,\r\n\r\nMichael Denton from <a href=\"http://www.azoft.com/\">custom
    software development</a> "
  created: '2010-03-01 19:05:12'
- author:
    name: thomasroy-spammer
  body: "Web developing is not an easy task,font free web site developing is really
    cheap and affordable,to fulfill a good selection of brief quotations just share
    <a rel=\"dofollow\" rel=\"nofollow\" href=\"http://qoutz.blogspot.com\">Love Status
    Quotes</a> || <a rel=\"dofollow\" rel=\"nofollow\" href=\"http://allsweetmessages.wordpress.com/category/funny-text-messages\">Funny
    Text Messages</a>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-21 12:49:47'
- author:
    name: zaviaar-spammer
  body: "Font free websites looks good and affective rather then that you have many
    fonts on your web,to get in touch with cheap designing company please find us
    at <a rel=\"dofollow\" href=\"http://www.d4you.us\">affordable website design</a>
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-22 15:58:14'
- author:
    name: zaviaar-spammer
  body: "thanks\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2012-11-22 16:08:04'
- author:
    name: Sunnyleon-spammer
  body: If you are not certain that the receiver enjoys The holidays are keep your
    concept and option of cards common and non-denominational such as a New Season
    introduction or a periodic picture bookmark it <a href="http://www.christmaswishes123.info/category/christmas-wishes-messages">http://www.christmaswishes123.info/category/christmas-wishes-messages</a>
  created: '2012-11-23 11:30:23'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Raph, great idea. It would be a great way to educate people about the time,
    effort and skill that goes into creating a truly usable typeface as well. They
    will come for the free fonts, but will learn something along the way. Also, since
    you will be appealing both to typophiles and to the general public, including
    graphic designers such as myself, it will be important that the site have visual
    appeal, and shouldn't bombard people with technical jargon right off the bat.
  created: '2005-12-06 02:30:04'
- author:
    name: edeverett
    picture: 109635
  body: "\"Indeed, the major theme for my ideal site would be quality. Not just abundance
    (millions of fonts!) or freeness, but quality.\"\r\n\r\nRaph, how do you see this
    quality being maintained and not overwhelmed by the masses of low quality free
    fonts, and the people who want them, that affect most of the other free font sites?\r\n\r\nWould
    there be some sort of editorial control and by who? \r\n\r\nCould there be a 'core
    collection' for the site with a submission/selection process like a commercial
    foundry?\r\n\r\nI look forward to seeing how this develops,\r\n\r\nEd."
  created: '2005-12-06 09:52:07'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Somehow related:<ul><li><a href=\"http://www.alvit.de/blog/article/20-best-license-free-official-fonts\">25
    Best License-Free Quality Fonts</a></li>\r\n<li><a href=\"http://www.typeforge.net/\">Typeforge</a></li></ul>"
  created: '2005-12-06 13:32:19'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "mike: Thanks for those links. I didn't know about typeforge, and that site
    may well fill in many of the gaps I've tried to identify in my post.\r\n\r\nedeverett:
    Those are good questions. There are a number of ways, I think, to achieve some
    kind of editorial control. Primarily, you need some kind of rating system, and
    possibly a way to identify the most trustworthy opinions. As it turns out, my
    last public-interest site, <a href=\"http://advogato.org/\">Advogato</a> was all
    about that :)\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-06 23:36:30'
- author:
    name: Karl Berry
  body: "I think it's a great idea, of course.  Unfortunately, like Raph, I can't
    devote significant time to actually creating a site.  I can offer space on tug.org,
    although I admit the server configuration is rather barebones, since I don't do
    much for tug.  I'm also happy to pay for a domain name and do dns, although that
    is the least of the problems, I realize.  If there's other things TUG might be
    able to do to help, I'm open to suggestions.\r\n\r\nRegarding existing free fonts,
    I'd just like to mention the <a href=\"http://tug.org/fonts/\">fonts page on tug.org</a>,
    which I wrote to try to consolidate information about free and semifree fonts
    with TeX support.\r\n\r\nAlso, some people may be interested to know that George
    Williams wrote an <a href=\"http://tug.org/TUGboat/Articles/tb24-3/williams.pdf\">article
    on FontForge</a> which was published in <a href=\"http://tug.org/TUGboat\">TUGboat</a>.\r\n\r\nIncidentally,
    if anyone is interested in working on Raph's huge scan collection which we've
    uploaded to tug.org, let me know.  Just creating index files for all those many,
    many images would be a great start in making them more accessible.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    I should mention that the support for Hrant, Raph and others comes almost entirely
    from individual member donations.  Memberships and donations are what keep TUG
    going, so if you have any interest, please consider <a href=\"http://tug.org/join.html\">supporting
    TUG</a>.  (end of commercial; sorry :)\r\n\r\nHappy designing,\r\nKarl (current
    TUG president)\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ankh
    body: "Karl (or Raph),\r\n\r\nI can probably also offer hosting space for images;
      if they are in the public domain, I can also put them on <a href=\"http://fromoldbooks.org/\">fromoldbooks.org</a>
      probably with some metadata and searching ability.  The down side is that the
      Web pages have Google ads on them, which currently pay my share of the hosting
      fees.  How many scans are there, and how much space?\r\n\r\nLiam\r\n\r\n-- \r\nAnkh
      on the Web: <a href=\"http://www.holoweb.net/~liam/\">http://www.holoweb.net/~liam/</a>\r\nWords
      and pictures from old books: http://fromoldbooks.org/\r\n"
    created: '2006-01-05 23:41:55'
  created: '2005-12-07 00:21:35'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I think the existence of the <a href=\"http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&item_id=OFL\">SIL
    Open Font License</a> is really important to this. I know it was mentioned in
    passing, but it's really important to have a model for this.\r\n\r\nFWIW, we've
    had an Adobe lawyer look over the Open Font License and give feedback. Overall
    it was pretty good.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-12-07 01:46:50'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "I don't know, Raph, I really don't know ...\r\n\r\nI had a similar idea slash
    ambition slash dream, or whatever you  wonna  call it, back in the year 2000.
    It failed. I don't want to discourage you, though. It might or might not work,
    depending on where and when. The only way to find out is to do it.\r\n\r\nI'm
    looking forward to play with your curves.\r\n\r\nPs. How many people in the free
    software community do you know who can say something intelligent about typeface
    design?"
  created: '2005-12-08 02:28:43'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Ralph, \r\n\r\nyou could also mention http://www.nongnu.org/freefont/ . \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-11 07:25:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The problem with doing things for free is that the goodwill and vitality
    of the originators only lasts so long before burnout. \r\n\r\nTo check out this
    proposition, I just went to FontLeech, and things are pretty dead there.\r\n\r\nIt's
    hard enough to keep coming up with new stuff even if it's your job.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    the \"perpetuum mobile\" feature of your site is what you will be patenting, Raph,
    but I wonder what makes you think this will have legs?"
  created: '2005-12-11 21:34:02'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>The problem with doing things for free is that the goodwill and vitality
    of the originators only lasts so long before burnout. </em>\r\n\r\nAs a person
    who has released over 200 free fonts, I would have to agree with Nick's assessment,
    especially since there are so many unprincipled low-lifes ought there who will
    steal free work and re-sell it. All the proposed website would do is provide them
    with more product, And there are clueless morons out there who believe that, since
    you give your work away, you must be Santa Claus or, at the very least, their
    personal font monkey, and they can make special requests of you which, of course,
    you will gladly fulfill. The proposed website would then enlarge the pool of personal
    font monkeys.\r\n\r\nIf the objective is to create a forum in which neophytes
    can present their work and have it critiqued, then you want to re-invent the wheel:
    this website does that. If the objective is to create a clearinghouse where the
    cheap bastards of the world can come and glom onto free stuff, wham-bam-thank-you-ma'am,
    that's been done, too."
  created: '2005-12-12 00:07:28'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Adam: I did mention freefont at nongnu, but only in passing.\r\n\r\nNick
    and Nick: thanks for your words of skepticism. I knew I could count on you guys.
    And thanks for not flaming. Seriously.\r\n\r\nA big part of the reason why I posted
    this in the first place was to gauge the level of interest. Since it seems to
    be lukewarm at best, and because there are a bunch of people out there doing similar
    things, it's very unlikely that I'm going to do anything about launching such
    a site myself. The other people who are trying to get free font development projects
    going can read this thread and hopefully will get something useful from it."
  created: '2005-12-12 06:41:17'
- author:
    name: edeverett
    picture: 109635
  body: "If I understand this correctly I think what Raph is pushing for is significantly
    different than the 'old' model for releasing free fonts. \r\n\r\nOpensource development
    of software has had a huge success in many areas, most obviously on the internet.
    This site I believe runs on Drupal, Apache and MySql (?) All of these have been
    developed as open source for many years without being bled dry by the 'cheap bastards'.
    <strong>Perhaps there should be more discussion of how the opensource model fits
    typeface development. </strong>\r\n\r\nOne of the biggest challenges to fonts
    being opensourced is perhaps that <em>typefaces</em> as opposed to fonts are primarily
    a visual design. Visual designs are traditionally more personal and have a stronger
    emotional hold on their creators than 'invisible' software. I know this would
    true of myself\u2014while I'm very attracted to the ideas, when I've been thinking
    about Raph suggestions, the 'designer' side of me has been saying 'but would you
    really let anyone do anything with <em>your</em> creation?'. Do designers have
    too big of an ego for this work? (This is a serious question, speaking as a start-up
    designer with a (probably misguided) ego/pride in my work.)\r\n\r\nHow do other
    opensource communities support their main contributers? I understand that it can
    be through commercial sponsorship, this seems to happening to some degree allready
    with type design. Sometimes it is through 'kudos', people starting out can make
    a name for themselves if they contribute good work, which could then lead to work
    on commercial projects. If there was a 'professionally' run organisation for promoting
    quality opensource fonts could this serve as a launch pad for talented novice
    type designers? Sometimes the originators of the software sell additional services
    or extensions to people who are already using their work, perhaps it could lead
    to work creating custom versions of the fonts?\r\n\r\nAre any of these senarios
    realistic? I've only really just dabbled in both opensource software and type
    design, so I'm not really able to offer much besides questions.\r\n\r\nIt would
    be fantastic to have a high quality website to point people to when they realise
    Times New Roman isn't the only typeface and want to learn about and use high quality
    type, where they aren't intimidated by (the justifiable) \xA3\xA3\xA3 price tags.
    If there could be some sort of centralised 'opensource foundry' to present, promote
    and distribute the <em>good</em> opensource fonts, I'd hope it would quickly find
    it's place along side commercial foundries, not competing with them.\r\n\r\nEd."
  created: '2005-12-12 09:57:57'
- author:
    name: Ankh
  body: "I've wanted a Free/Libra Font portal for some time now.  A few years ago
    I tried to get a bunch of fonts donated to the <a href=\"http://www.gnome.org/\">Gnome</a>
    project; we did get Bitstream Vera, and we had offers of quite a few more, but
    I felt that we needed to do rather more.\r\n\r\nI wanted to see the font chooser
    display font copyright information (or at least the comment field from fonts)
    and extract URIs from it for a \"visit the Font Web Site\" button... and maybe
    also a \"Get more fonts' button that would take you to a font portal.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think there is a good business model for Free fonts right now.  It's not
    at all the same as Free software, partly because the work/percieved-value ratio
    is very different, and of course also because people outside the graphic design
    and art communities tend not to value type and design.\r\n\r\nAs we start to get
    more software on the GNU/Linux[tm] platform that caters to designers (e.g. inkscape),
    perhaps we'll start to attract some more people who will create demand for more
    polished fonts and font software.  I don't just mean FontForge and other tools
    for font designers: try <em>installing</em> a font on Linux sone day!  Often you
    can drag it into <code>~/.fonts/</code> but there's no good user interface for
    inspecting an uninstalled font, nor a way to deactivate a font without removing
    it.\r\n\r\nSo I think we need some more infrastructure.  I think what's needed
    is a combination of raising awareness of typography (this is why I gave a talk
    on typography at Guadec, for example, explaining how a large part of typography
    and graphic design involves the human perception system and not just arbitrary
    \"creative\" decisions that engineers often despise),and at the same time as raising
    awareness, providing tools.\r\n\r\nA portal site for users of Free software should
    not, I think, exclude links to commercial fonts, since, as I said, I don't believe
    we have a business model for open source font designers to make a living and pay
    for food and clean socks.  Commercial sponsors of typefaces (e.g. La Monde) generally
    don't want the fonts being freely distributed and weakening their brand.\r\n\r\nI
    did speak with Richard Stallman about a GNU Font Licence and/or font portal some
    time ago, and he sounded at least reasonably positive.  Today I think the SIL
    Open Font Licence (er, License) would probably be very satisfactory.\r\n\r\n--
    \r\n<a href=\"http://www.holoweb.net/%7Eliam/\">Ankh on the Web</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://fromoldbooks.org/\">Words
    and pictures from old books</a>"
  created: '2005-12-14 02:56:32'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "I don't consider Bitstream Vera family free in the Stallmanian sense because
    I never saw source files for it. Has anyone been able to acquire them?\r\n\r\nRaph,
    you say some people out there are doing similar things. Who are they?"
  created: '2005-12-14 10:12:09'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: To clarify, are we talking about a web site to promote free fonts (of which
    there are dozens already) or are we talking more about creating a forum for open
    source type projects?
  created: '2006-01-06 15:03:36'
- author:
    name: snowdrift
    picture: 111269
  body: .
  created: '2006-01-12 19:15:27'
- author:
    name: Rhythmus.be
    picture: 111885
  body: "raph \u2014 Great idea. What happened? Do you (or others) still have plans
    for a platform (website) that (a) is a handsomely styled and logically structured
    download archive for free high quality fonts, with advanced testing tools (acting
    as an Open Foundry); (b) is a discussion and collaboration forum to allow teams
    of developers to design, critique, edit, code, build, update and manage free fonts?\r\n\r\nAs
    for the quality benchmarking, I think user voting is but one approach, certainly
    valid, on the condition that votes by accredited users should have more weight.
    Additionally, and not in the least, there should be a set of minimum quality requirements,
    such as the file format (e.g. Type 1 being low, OpenType high grade), encoding
    (mapping), number of glyphs and multilingual support (i.e. extended glyph sets),
    the availability of small caps, oldstyle figures and ligatures, a minimum set
    of layout features &c. A grade of sets is also possible, ranking Standard to More-than-Pro
    fonts.\r\n\r\nIf you still have plans, you can count on me. I'd happily post OpenType
    feature code, help with designing glyphs, and supply documentation regarding historical,
    traditional use of type."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Choz Cunningham
      picture: 111714
    body: "<em>raph \u2014 Great idea. What happened? </em>\r\n\r\nI have been very
      busy, and am unsure if we have bumped into each other on this topic in another
      thread.\r\n\r\nAt this time Raph and I are working, and openly accepting all
      other interested individuals, to a project called Typosium. This is designed
      to be a wiki-like factbase for font releases, a magazine focusing on reviews
      and analysis, and, while not a font host, an integrated place where you can
      get to the free or proprietary product. I am specifically bringing over an interactive
      user/expert paradigm from another media-related project.\r\n\r\nTyposium Manifesto\r\nhttp://typosium.org/deptofplanning/index.php?topic=2.0\r\n\r\nCurrently,
      we are discussing organizational structure, and how to create a standard for
      the editorial content."
    created: '2007-02-16 15:43:39'
  created: '2006-12-14 13:01:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i think raph has been spending his time <a href="http://lists.freedesktop.org/archives/openfontlibrary/">here</a>,
    but i might be wrong...
  created: '2007-02-16 17:08:05'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: Open Font Library . Org and Typosium pose two different and probably compatible
    solutions to what this thread discusses. I don't see Typosium as a repository
    for Free fonts, or OFLibrary as a newscenter. However, I think that they can benefit
    each other, and will each do a better job by not trying to do the other's. I believe
    Raph is interested and participating in both, but not for the same reasons.
  created: '2007-02-16 17:58:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Typosium Manifesto\r\n\r\nI'm likin' it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-16 19:48:26'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I think both OFLib and Typosium have the potential to grow into sites that
    support many of the aims in my original post, but neither of them are anywhere
    near yet. I'm dabbling in both in the hopes of moving them along. If both end
    up succeeding within their niches, as Choz outlines, so much the better!\r\n"
  created: '2007-02-16 22:12:09'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Free Fonts + Free Tools?!\r\nhttp://milafat.online.fr/arfonts/"
  created: '2007-02-18 06:04:25'
- author:
    name: Choz Cunningham
    picture: 111714
  body: "<em>I\u2019m likin\u2019 it.</em>\r\n\r\nExcellent. I know it is vaporware
    at this point, but I'm motivated because it is exactly the type of site I would
    love to have in my bookmark short list, but can't find yet. I welcome you to come
    throw your 2&cent; in, as I imagine you will have constructive ideas before and
    after launch, particularly based on your familiarity with widely divergent type
    styles and type culture. Well, that and I encourage everyone to join.\r\n\r\n<em>Free
    Fonts + Free Tools?!</em>\r\n\r\nTho' I'm limited to a machine translation, which
    is particularly weak in converting that script, I don't think those are free like
    \"freedom\". That is what the OFLib, Free Software Foundation, and such are all
    about. A lot of confusion exists in the free software community because common
    English uses free to mean \"gratis\" or \"liberty\". In this case those in the
    movement are referring to the freedom of concepts like math and logic, and thusly,
    programs. And for now that is interpreted as releasing type under special licenses,
    like the OFL, GPL or such."
  created: '2007-02-18 07:28:10'
- author:
    name: thetophus
    picture: 112453
  body: This is an awesome idea.  I would be willing to lend as many resources as
    I can offer.  Which is not a lot at this point, but I'm willing to do everything
    I can.
  created: '2007-04-19 06:41:48'
- author:
    name: Predabot
    picture: 120029
  body: "A HIGHLY interesting thread! :) Something like this is precisely what I was
    seeking info about when I joined this site.\r\n\r\nToo bad nothing came of this
    particular project, but perhaps some kind soul could list all of the very best
    resources for Open Source Fonts and development? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-07-09 18:56:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Well, something did come of it... http://code.google.com/webfonts :-)
  created: '2010-07-09 19:29:37'
- author:
    name: joseph122
  body: "That's good. I also like to contribute in it. Go through the link http://www.intelliswift.com/drupal-development-services
    They are expertise in this.\r\n "
  created: '2014-11-18 11:18:42'
date: '2005-12-05 23:11:13'
title: Time for a website for free font development?

---
