---
author:
  name: AndrewSipe
  picture: 109430
body: "I tried to find a discussion on this already... but no luck. \r\n\r\nI currently
  work in a PC environment and have several fonts, some duplicates in both [[TrueType]]
  and [[Postscript]] formats.  I don't see the point of keeping both version (Suitcase
  only allows me to activate one at a time anyway.) \r\n\r\nI primarily outline my
  work prior to sending it off to the printers. \r\n\r\nSo my question is: Which Format
  should I keep versus the other. Is there an argument that anyone can make that tells
  me to keep them both? I'm currently leaning towards keeping the TTF due to the simplisticy
  of a single file over multiple files (1 file versus 2 or 4 files). \r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Hmm. Good question. I used to be vehemently anti-TTF, but that is the "pre-press
    in the 90s, TTF fonts not downloading to the RIPs" talking. '
  created: '2005-12-08 19:13:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I would recommend keeping the TT versions (but obviously back up the PS versions
    someplace). Microsoft have already announced that Type 1 fonts will not be supported
    by their new Avalon graphics system, and it is only a matter of time before support
    for the format becomes an issue.\r\n\r\nThere are still some PS RIPs out there
    that have problems with TTFs, but if you encounter one it is usually a sign that
    the pre-press bureau or print house hasn't updated their systems for some time,
    which I would take as a warning about using their services."
  created: '2005-12-08 19:30:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "For a more complete explanation on the phase-out of PostScript Type 1 fonts
    see - http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2005/10/phasing_out_typ.html \r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2005-12-10 17:19:36'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Seems from Thomas's blog that CFF-flavoured OpenType WILL still be supported.\r\n\r\nMy
    initial reaction to phasing out of Type 1 was, \"Dammit! Does that mean that my
    CFF-flavoured OpenType fonts should actually be TrueType-flavoured OpenType fonts?\"
    The answer seems to be \"no\", but I would love to hear from Si and Thomas - and
    anyone at Apple who might be lurking on this site - what the best policy is for
    small foundries. CFF or TTF?"
  created: '2005-12-10 17:39:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "From an operating system perspective, supporting one rasteriser is always
    going to be more attractive than supporting two rasterisers, and having one of
    those rasterisers provided as a black box by another company (Adobe) probably
    makes a lot of MS and Apple engineers quite nervous. So the internal push for
    OS developers would favour a single flavour of OpenType, namely TrueType. On the
    other hand, there does seems to be acknowledgement of the reality of font distribution
    and the inherited preference for PS fonts in the professional graphics market,
    so I think these companies understand that supporting CFF as well as TTF is important.\r\n\r\nBut
    my uncerstanding is that there was a period when it wasn't certain that there
    was going to be any PS rasteriser in Avalon, which might give you pause for thought.
    About 95% of the fonts I've made in the past ten years are TTFs; in fact, Adobe
    are currently the only people for whom we make CFF fonts. But then I'm making
    custom fonts, not retail fonts for the professional graphics market.\r\n\r\nIf
    I had to make a recommendation on purely technical grounds -- based on robustness
    of the format, availability of thorough QA tools, ability to get at the internals
    of the tables, and superior system and application support --, I would have no
    hesitation in encouraging foundries to favour TrueType over CFF. The only downside
    to TrueType is the relatively complicated hinting model and the additional work
    this requires to get decent results."
  created: '2005-12-10 20:23:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I think, the original question is from a users perspective, \"Which format
    should I collect?\" \r\n\r\nI think: \"It doesn't make any difference.\" Long
    after the T1 format is gone-for-good, if such eclipse does in fact occur, OS and
    devices are still going to handle it. You don't need to have two rasterizers to
    deal with both, or at least that's what MS and Apple have been saying for some
    time, (auto-hinting converters with dual overhead OT generators, you know). And
    if anyone's nervous about the black-box Adobe rasterizer, it must be a slow-burning
    nerve...\r\n\r\nI think from a founders perspective, it's best to design and produce
    in the format you expect the market to use the font in most readily and easily.
    Most print clients want PS first, and everything else at the end. Most online,
    or on screen font clients, want TT and some get everything else too. "
  created: '2005-12-10 21:11:22'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Will TTFs made for future Windows versions require hinting at all? \r\n\r\nI
    remember Mr Connare's <a href=\"http://www.connare.com/type.htm\">Magpie</a> sample,
    accompanied by the comment: \"Below is a link to view an image of Magpie (UNHINTED)
    using ClearType in the Microsoft Reader for Windows.\"\r\n\r\nTo my eyes this
    looks quite good."
  created: '2005-12-10 21:18:12'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "The importance of hinting is steadily decreasing, and will eventually approach
    zero. Aside from hinting, the technical differences between OpenType TT and OpenType
    CFF are also not that significant - the encoding and fancy contextual features
    are the same across the two, the only real difference is the representation of
    the outlines.\r\n\r\nIMNSHO, a reasonable way to deliver fonts for Vista and future
    systems is to forego hints altogether, and tune the \"gasp\" table to enable y-direction
    grayscaling. See <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/7739\">this thread</a>
    for discussion and examples of the latter, a new feature for ClearType. Btw, I
    wasn't able to find the documentation for the new gasp flags for controlling y-direction
    grayscaling. Maybe one of the ClearType experts here can point me in the right
    direction.\r\n\r\nBasically, the effect of this approach is that contrast will
    be slightly softened compared to well-hinted fonts, but you're pretty much guaranteed
    no distortion or artifacts, and increasing resolution will lessen the importance
    of contrast over time. Of course, all this depends on the nature of the font.
    If your goal is good screen rendering of large blocks of text, as it is for MS's
    new ClearType font collection, then you probably do want to pay attention to the
    hinting. For display fonts, it shouldn't matter much at all.\r\n\r\nAs far as
    the expectation for future support, I think both TT and CFF are going to be around
    a  <em>long</em> time. All the new Microsoft stuff (XAML, XPS, WPF, if you can
    keep track of all the alphabet stew) supports both TT and CFF, and of course anything
    that deals with PDF has to as well. The code for unhinted TT and CFF rendering
    is pretty simple.\r\n\r\nSo I would say that the choice between TT and CFF boils
    down to which tools you're most comfortable using.\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-10 22:05:10'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "As a graphic designer or end-user, I actually prefer OpenType PS (.otf) fonts
    over OpenType TT (.ttf) fonts. \r\n\r\nFrom the production perspective, both formats
    have their problems. \r\n\r\nThe B-spline outline representation is just stupid.
    Everyone, including John Hudson, designs using cubic Beziers, because they are
    the standard design tool. The subsequent conversion to quadratic B-splines is
    a tedious operation that you don't have complete control over (various tools will
    convert the same Bezier outlines into various B-spline representations). So there
    is a certain level of uncertainty and increased QA that needs to go into a production
    of a OT TT font. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand, the internal structure of an OT PS
    font is just absurd. The \"CFF \" table that holds the Bezier outlines of the
    OT PS font has a structure that is totally alien to the rest of the OT tables.
    In OT fonts (both PS and TT), the glyph names are stored in the \"post\" table,
    the encoding in the \"cmap\" table and the font names and copyright strings in
    the \"name\" table. In OT TT, the \"glyf\" table only holds the glyph descriptions.
    But in OT PS, the \"CFF \" table, holds the glyph descriptions as well as... glyph
    names, encoding and a set of font names. But the glyph names, the encoding and
    the font names need also to be stored in \"post\", \"cmap\" and \"name\", where
    they belong. \r\n\r\nThe OpenType specification advises software developers that
    only the information from the latter tables is relevant and should be relied upon
    but since there is no guarantee that some piece of software does not accidentally
    rely on the \"other\" information, the font developer (or the software he uses)
    needs to make sure that the redundant information is kept in sync. Although that
    information shouldn't actually be there in the first place. \r\n\r\nThe reason
    for the whole thing is that CFF -- not the entire OpenType PS font, but *the \"CFF\"
    chunk itself -- was originally conceived by Adobe as a self-contained font format.
    It was a replacement for Type 1  that was used in PDF files -- instead of Type
    1. So whatever was in Type 1 (glyph definitions, font names, glyph names, encodings),
    ended up in CFF. At some point, Microsoft and Adobe started talking and agreed
    to \"merge\" the TrueType and PostScript font formats. Since Adobe already had
    a spec for this new compact chunk of data called CFF, they decided, let's put
    the CFF chunk directly into the OpenType file structure. So what you end up with
    is actually a complete font inside of a font. In fact, when an OpenType PS font
    is being printed to a PostScript printer, the entire OpenType \"wrapper\" gets
    thrown away and only the CFF chunk remains. It gets converted to Type 1 and put
    into the .ps data stream. So yes, Type 1 lives *and will live*. Because PostScript
    doesn't know anything about OpenType PS: any OpenType PS font travels into a PostScript
    device as a plain Type 1. \r\n\r\nType 1 fonts had also their problems, the biggest
    being that the kerning information was not part of the actual file but had to
    be stored externally (.afm, .pfm, FOND, you name it). Also, it was not really
    set up well for complex scripts and generally, non-Western typography. On the
    other hand, its beauty is in simplicity. Type 1 is very simple to create, edit
    and debug. In fact, one can write Type 1 source code in a text editor and the
    compile it using very simple code. \r\n\r\nBut since Type 1 lacks advanced typographic
    features that would make it usable for writing systems such as Arabic or Devanagari,
    OpenType is a more mature solution. When it comes to the difference between OT
    PS and OT TT, I can tell you that creating and debugging OT TT is much easier.
    Several different rasterizers and toolkits exist for TrueType / OpenType TT while
    for OpenType PS, one is practically limited to just Adobe code. \r\n\r\nWhenever
    a problem occurs (e.g. you print a text set in a font and you get .notdef boxes
    on the printer), with OpenType TT, it's relatively easy to track it down. You
    build the font using different tools and check the font on different rasterizers,
    and you'll be able to quickly nail down whether the problem is in the font, the
    software used to create it or perhaps in the rasterizer. With OpenType PS, it's
    more problematic. I spent nights and nights trying to solve several particular
    problems once, and it turned out that the fonts were fine but the code used to
    create it (the Adobe FDK for OpenType) wasn't. \r\n\r\nFortunately, the Adobe
    type people are very helpful and responsive when it comes to such problems, and
    are usually able to help one in debugging. Also, the quality of the code gets
    better and better. Since  the Adobe FDK for OpenType is used as a library in FontLab
    products, many people have built OpenType PS fonts over the last years, so the
    \"infant illnesses\" of the code have already been fixed. \r\n\r\nSo these days,
    when I have a choice which font format to pick, I usually pick OpenType. If the
    font has been hand-hinted, I pick OpenType TT, otherwise I prefer OpenType PS.
    \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-11 07:19:53'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "BTW, Leslie Cabarga's book \"Learn FontLab Fast\" includes a contribution
    of mine: a handy comprehensive pro-and-contra comparison between all major font
    formats from the user's perspective. You may find it useful when picking a particular
    font format for a particular project. It's on pages 81-82 of the book. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-11 07:22:56'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I would go with John Hudson's recommendation also, for several very specific
    reasons.\r\n\r\nConsider that the most recent version of FontLab makes no distinction
    between TTF-flavored Opentype fonts and Truetype fonts: both have the .ttf extension.
    Second, forget the myth that .ttf fonts cause problems printing. I have been involved
    with the printing trades for almost forty years and with the desktop version of
    same for fifteen, and I can tell you categorically that the anti-TTF propaganda
    is a load-o-cr*p, not unlike the Macs-are-inherently-better-than-PCs hooey that
    is pitched in the Mac community.\r\n\r\nI have used both Postscript and Trueteype
    fonts to output to imagesetters. It is true that there were some problems with
    .ttf fonts and level 1 RIPs, but we are way beyond that point now. I am also not
    entirely convinced that the perpetuation of that myth wasn't fueled by Adobe (following
    the principle of NIH -- not invented here).  It is curious that, NOW, with the
    advent of OpenType, developed jointly by Adobe and Microsoft (versus Truetype,
    which was developed jointly by Apple and Microsoft), Adobe is OK with .ttf. And
    I have used both Macs and PCs in a serious production environment, and neither
    machine has an advantage over the other (other than the fact that PCs are a LOT
    less expensive to purchase or lease).\r\n\r\nSo, bottom line: keep the Truetype,
    sell the Postscript to unsuspecting suckers on eBay."
  created: '2005-12-12 00:29:21'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Consider that the most recent version of FontLab \r\n> makes no distinction
    between TTF-flavored Opentype \r\n> fonts and Truetype fonts: both have the .ttf
    extension.\r\n\r\nThe Adobe-Microsoft-owned OpenType specification replaced the
    Microsoft-owned TrueType v1.66 specification. OpenType is a Microsoft trademark
    and TrueType is an Apple trademark. This means that essentially, from the point
    of view of Microsoft or Adobe, TrueType doesn't exist anymore. \r\n\r\nMicrosoft
    Windows displays a green OpenType icon for .ttf files that include a DSIG (digital
    signature) table. This is only a cosmetic distinction from the fonts with a blue
    TrueType icon. You can have .ttf files with a blue TrueType icon that include
    OpenType Layout tables and .ttf files with a green OpenType icon that include
    none. OpenType Layout tables are not a mandatory element of OpenType fonts. \r\n\r\nIn
    short, one could write OpenType >= TrueType. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-12 02:40:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The importance of hinting is steadily decreasing, and will eventually approach
    zero.\"\r\n\r\nI have heard other people say this too, including some Microsofties.
    As far as I know, this is bull, or it's a round-about way of saying, \"you'll
    just have to edit bitmaps for low resolution, we ain't spendin' the dime or the
    time on either fonts or technology to make this work\". The reason I know I'm
    telling the truth is because a. I've seen the effects of uncontrolled multibit
    scan conversion on small sizes and it looks like mud. b. there are no magical
    resolution increases that will transport all of the 10-12 point screen fonts in
    the world to a 27 ppm minimum. and c. because I know the people who are saying
    this have abandoned the original screen font quality of the mid-80' to mid-90's
    in favor of a lower priced lower cost alternative, look Ma no hints!\r\n\r\n\"This
    means that essentially, from the point of view of Microsoft or Adobe, TrueType
    doesn\u2019t exist anymore.\" \r\n\r\nReally? or is this just the view of the
    techocrats and typocrats, while the lawyers have other opinions?\r\n\r\n\"The
    B-spline outline representation is just stupid.\"\r\n\r\nWow, Adam, you've designed
    fonts with a B-spline outline representation?"
  created: '2005-12-12 13:20:05'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "it was not this Microsoftie. I agree with David, hinting is still very important
    for screen rendering, and also about the \u201Cmud\u201D comment. I may have talked
    about a lighter approach to hinting, i.e., controlling the main y direction features
    in the font, x-height, cap height, etc as well as hints to control serifs and
    to keep certain glyphs from closing up at smaller sizes. This is still very much
    needed, and without too much effort can result in very sharp type on the screen
    that faithfully represents the original outline."
  created: '2005-12-13 04:43:14'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> \u201CThe B-spline outline representation is just stupid.\u201D\r\n> Wow,
    Adam, you\u2019ve designed fonts with a B-spline \r\n> outline representation?\r\n\r\nI
    tried but failed. I know some (very few) people who do. I'm not saying that it's
    conceptually inferior -- there are even other curve representations that people
    use, such as the on-curve-point-only Ikarus geometry. In fact, I must say that
    I'm more comfortable with the on-curve-points-only Ikarus system than the TrueType
    B-splines. \r\n\r\nMy point is that practically, it's stupid because the PostScript
    drawing model is standard in the publishing industry. Most people draw in PostScript
    curves. Even that FontLab has allowed drawing in native TrueType B-splines since
    version 3.0, I've yet to see the big run for it. In the last two years, I don't
    remember the TrueType drawing mode of FontLab/FontLab Studio being raised even
    once on forums or tech support submissions. \r\n\r\nSo the reality is that most
    people draw in PostScript curves. Then they have a choice of either sticking with
    their carefully drawn curves by going into Type 1 or OpenType PS, or to rely on
    an approximative conversion by going to OpenType TT / TrueType. \r\n\r\nTo sum
    up: I don't see a clear favorite. Each of the formats has its drawbacks. Type
    1 does not support multilingual typography properly, OpenType TT / TrueType uses
    an unpractical curve system that is not native to most designers, and OpenType
    PS is still a bit of a double-shrink-wrapped black box, which, if something goes
    wrong, nobody really knows what and why. Of course, each format has its advantages
    as well: Type 1 being rock-solid, simple and splendidly debugged over the last
    decades, OpenType TT / TrueType being cleanly designed so to large extent, it's
    backwards-compatible to Windows 3.1, and OpenType PS being a kind of a blend of
    both worlds. \r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 10:42:13'
- author:
    name: rjohnston
  body: "To take this a bit OT: who (or what) is going to rasterize my library of
    PS fonts in future?\r\n\r\nIt's still impossible to buy many fonts as Opentype,
    of any flavour; I'm reluctant to invest in TT fonts when buying type for professional
    use, and it's often not an option anyway as many foundries only offer PS. Do Adobe,
    Apple or Microsoft intend to offer a tool to wrap PS fonts as PS-flavoured OT?\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2005-12-14 11:10:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ": ) Glad to hear Mike still believes. Thing is, if we HAD higher resloutions
    on screens, peopled use smaller sizes, and we'd still need to hint...or should,
    unless bitmaps are on the upswing again... Small sizes need ALL the hints, especially
    side bearing and counter controls, (which would only leave stems loose, which
    of course is impossible)...so...\r\n\r\n\"To sum up: I don\u2019t see a clear
    favorite. \" But doesn't TT, with it's \"lossless\" conversion to T1 and the reverse
    being \"lossy\" make the answer obvious?"
  created: '2005-12-15 13:20:56'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: "All of this techie stuff makes my head spin, but I do know that PS is now
    and will be used in the future. If you don't like it, convert it! Use TransType
    Pro, or the other PC thing, whatever it is called. Seems like everyone here must
    have either worked at or owned an output service shop, as they used to be called.
    I remember in the dim past trouble with TT fonts in rasterizers not rendering
    correctly or going to Courier too, but don't hear much about that these days.
    I take Adam's points about the differences between the formats for the practical
    side of things, <o sum up: I don\u2019t see a clear favorite. Each of the formats
    has its drawbacks. Type 1 does not support multilingual typography properly, OpenType
    TT / TrueType uses an unpractical curve system that is not native to most designers,
    and OpenType PS is still a bit of a double-shrink-wrapped black box, which, if
    something goes wrong, nobody really knows what and why. Of course, each format
    has its advantages as well: Type 1 being rock-solid, simple and splendidly debugged
    over the last decades, OpenType TT / TrueType being cleanly designed so to large
    extent, it\u2019s backwards-compatible to Windows 3.1, and OpenType PS being a
    kind of a blend of both worlds.>My head hurts even more now. Phase out of Type
    1 - now that is scary.\r\nJordan"
  created: '2005-12-16 09:43:36'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "I was hoping that someone would step up and state unequivocally that either
    TTF or CFF is the \"right\" format for all future type development and publication.
    I should have known that there is no right answer, only informed opinions. In
    the meantime I will continue to develop CFF-flavoured fonts. \r\n\r\nI would be
    curious to know what my colleagues are doing in their development process; whether
    they plan to offer TTF- or CFF-flavoured OpenType fonts.\r\n\r\nHere's what I
    see so far in this thread, and by visiting the sites of foundries which offer
    OpenType fonts The first list is clear and marked with \"v\" prefix when verified:\r\n\r\nv
    Adobe ___ majority: CFF / minority: TTF\r\nv Dalton Maag ___ TTF\r\n_ Emigre ___
    CFF\r\nv Linotype ___ CFF\r\nv Karsten Luecke Type Foundry ___ CFF\r\nv Monotype
    ___ CFF\r\nv Orange Italic ___ CFF\r\n_ Porchez Typofonderie ___ CFF\r\nv Shinntype
    ___ CFF\r\nv Mark Simonson ___ CFF\r\nv Jeremy Tankard ___ CFF\r\nv Terminal Design
    ___ CFF (Rawlinson, Giacomo) / TTF (ClearviewHwy)\r\nv Thirstype ___ CFF\r\nv
    Tiro ___ retail (minority): CFF / custom (majority): TTF\r\nv Type Initiative
    ___ CFF\r\nv Village ___ CFF\r\nv Underware ___ TTF (Auto) / CFF (Bello)\r\n\r\nThe
    second list is foundries which do offer OTF fonts, but whose flavouring is unclear
    or unstated:\r\n\r\n_ Font Bureau (David Berlow) ___ TTF (?)\r\n_ House Industries
    ___ ?\r\n_ Lucas Fonts ___ ?\r\n_ OurType ___ ?\r\n_ P22 ___ ?\r\n_ Process ___
    CFF (?)\r\n\r\n\r\nI invite everyone who is releasing OpenType format fonts to
    throw in to this list; I will update this post as information comes in.\r\n\r\nThanks,
    c\r\n\r\nUPDATED 2006.01.10 / 13.07 EDT"
  created: '2005-12-16 17:02:23'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "On most of the issues being discussed here, it seems the consensus has settled
    on The Truth, so I'm not going to re-hash those things. I have just a few niggly
    comments:\r\n\r\nAdam wrote <cite>any OpenType PS font travels into a PostScript
    device as a plain Type 1.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is technically true as long as one
    keeps that word \"travels\" in there. However, it is interesting to note that
    fonts resident on PostScript RIPs may be CFF!\r\n\r\nOld Nick wrote <cite>It is
    curious that, NOW, with the advent of OpenType, developed jointly by Adobe and
    Microsoft (versus Truetype, which was developed jointly by Apple and Microsoft),
    Adobe is OK with .ttf.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's true that during the font wars of the
    early 90s, both sides denigrated the other's format. On the other hand, it's also
    true that \"now\" = 1996-97. So the period in which \"Adobe is OK with .ttf\"
    has now been longer than the period when Adobe was more begrudging in its support
    of TrueType. But even in the early 1990s Adobe was doing a lot of work to make
    TrueType function well with Adobe applications and PostScript (including licensing
    the TrueType rasterizer and building it into PostScript).\r\n\r\nrjohnston asked:
    <cite>Do Adobe, Apple or Microsoft intend to offer a tool to wrap PS fonts as
    PS-flavoured OT?</cite>\r\n\r\nAdobe has made its OpenType font development tools
    available at no charge for quite a few years now. However, most folks will be
    best off using other tools - some of which incorporate Adobe source code, such
    as FontLab and DTL FontMaster. These can all take in Type 1 fonts and generate
    OpenType CFF (PS-flavored), but even they require a fair bit of setup and understanding.\r\n\r\nChester's
    chart confused me a bit. Adobe offers 12 OpenType TT fonts and about 3000 OpenType
    CFF fonts. Currently, we continue to develop and release OT CFF.\r\n\r\nFor what
    it's worth, I gather that Linotype and Monotype are doing primarily OT CFF. I
    wouldn't necessarily take that as an endorsement of technical superiority, but
    likely a combination of where they have the best quality outlines and what their
    markets prefer. The professional publishing market seems to have a strong preference
    for CFF, even if there is no technical reality behind that.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-12-17 20:22:39'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Thomas, thank you for the post, and for clarifying the situation for me. I
    do feel stupid, but when it comes to this subject, I would rather feel stupid
    and ask than NOT feel stupid and change course based upon a misapprehension. There
    is a lot of confusion in the marketplace about OpenType, which most people believe
    to be a unique and monolithic format, not two different formats wrapped in the
    same paper. I hope that our industry can find ways to inform and educate our customers
    in a "top-level" way, instead of burying this important information.
  created: '2005-12-17 21:28:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Chester, I think Tiro's entry on your chart should read majority TTF, minority
    CFF. What we make is very much in response to what our clients request. The only
    vaguely retail family on development at the moment is Ross' Plantagenet Novus,
    which I believe will be CFF. We've made CFF fonts for Adobe recently, as noted
    above. All other clients want TTF.
  created: '2005-12-17 21:38:37'
- author:
    name: .
  body: I am canvassing some foundries via email and am updating the table of who
    offers what. I hope that this table will be more and more complete as we go along,
    and that other people will start to fill in any holes. Perhaps when it's more
    complete, it can go into the WIKI. In the meantime, I'm posting this note in order
    to keep this node somewhere nearer the top of the tracker.
  created: '2005-12-19 17:40:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I have released one OT font, in CFF format, which is what I will continue
    to use.\r\n\r\nI am reluctant to start releasing in two OT formats, as I had hoped
    that OT would make things simpler. At the moment, though, due to market dictates,
    I am contmplating releasing my next typeface in FOUR formats, two versions of
    OT, plus \"old\" .ttf and type 1. \r\n\r\nThere would be TWO versions of .ttf,
    one for OpenType where small caps are included in the base font, and another where
    there is a separate \"Expert\" SC&OTF font.\r\n\r\nThis appears to make no sense,
    and I can see why it would cause Adobe to go all-OT.\r\n\r\nBut when I look at
    my font sales, I see that I *might* be foolish to forgo releasing a new typeface
    in a \"legacy\" format that is still alive and kicking for a significant market
    segment.\r\n\r\nAnd then, there might be even more versions of the same typeface,
    \"Standard\" and \"Pro\" versions of OT.\r\n\r\nI am also pondering what to do
    with Cyrillic and Greek support. It's all very well for non-foundries (yeah, browse
    their websites and see*) like Microsoft and Adobe to cram everything into massive
    Pro fonts and, if not distributing by bundling, flog them for peanuts, but that
    may not represent a very good ROI for the indie guy. \r\n\r\nBut I suspect that
    it IS actually the way to go, and that there are massive multi-user corporate
    licensing deals waiting for that kind of monster font. \r\n\r\nI also suspect
    that many indie foundries are developing such product right now, so my prediction
    is -- 2006: Year of the monster fonts.\r\n\r\n*I'm not undervaluing their contribution
    to typography, and its importance, but they do: wouldn't it be something to see
    MS and Adobe flaunting their typographic prowess on their home pages?!\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-19 18:24:21'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Nick, I totally agree with you. With a monster font containing small caps,
    several numeral sets, and supporting several ISO standard character sets, a 4-font
    OpenType family could easily be generated in hundreds of instances. Who has the
    time to manage all of that stuff? and why do it? Why step back in time? You might
    as well release your type in cold metal and wood and dry transfer sheets too.
    I say: make the legacy formats for those who request them, otherwise encourage
    users to get on board with this great new format. Users don't have to access the
    small caps or the alternate numeral sets or the additional accents and glyphs,
    but pretty soon the old formats will be like leaded petrol; only needed by those
    whose engines are antiquated.\r\nPS; I have added you to the table. Thanks."
  created: '2005-12-19 18:51:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">You might as well release your type in cold metal and wood and dry transfer
    sheets too.\r\n\r\nLOL!"
  created: '2005-12-19 19:01:40'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I can verify that my OT fonts are all CFF and I intend to continue releasing
    in that format for the most part.
  created: '2005-12-19 19:01:55'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>It\u2019s true that during the font wars of the early 90s, both sides
    denigrated the other\u2019s format. On the other hand, it\u2019s also true that
    \u201Cnow\u201D = 1996-97. So the period in which \u201CAdobe is OK with .ttf\u201D
    has now been longer than the period when Adobe was more begrudging in its support
    of TrueType.</em>\r\n\r\nWith all due respect, Thomas, mud has a way of sticking
    long after it has ceased to be thrown.  If the \"fact\" of Adobe's (albeit grudging,
    perhaps?) acceptance of Truetype were universally known, we wouldn't be having
    this present discussion, would we? Six of one, half a dozen of the other; half
    full, half empty; the check's in the mail; and some of my best friends use Truetype..."
  created: '2005-12-20 01:22:37'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "As far as I could ever tell, most of the mud being slung was not from Adobe,
    but from end users, who were (and are) far more conservative than software companies.
    That was certainly my impression at the time, long before I came to Adobe in 1997.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-10 07:29:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "BTW, all the Emigre OT fonts I have seen to date were CFF.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-10 07:30:32'
- author:
    name: bruno_maag
  body: "Dalton Maag release all their OTs in TTF format. Like John H, most of our
    work is custom related, with many corporate clients still in the world of NT4,
    and even OS/2. Also, all our OTs support a Latin A Extended character set, and
    from what I understand, there are (or were) some issues with CFF fonts in that
    respect. Furthermore, supporting TTF will give you backward compatibility on larger
    charactersets with Windows systems and Office apps because it's all proper Unicode.
    \r\nAnd we have the option of applying high quality hints if we want to. As far
    as I am concerned I sell OT, not ttf or cff. It's OpenType, who cares what outlines
    are behind it as long as it works. \r\n\r\nBruno Maag\r\nDalton Maag Ltd"
  created: '2006-01-10 09:34:50'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: "I am about to purchase type for use in Windows.  It is for a book being developed
    with Adobe InDesign and Photoshop.  My choices are TrueType or Postscript Type
    1.  The type may be released as OpenType in the future, but there is nothing definite
    about this.\r\n\r\nMy sense, reading this thread, is that I should purchase the
    TrueType version.  Does anyone disagree with this?\r\n\r\nThanks."
  created: '2006-05-23 19:27:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, it depends. If it's for print, your chances are actually better with
    PS, because\r\nall too often TT fonts are converted \"blindly \"from PS, and can
    have problems.\r\n\r\nGo with TT if you have faith in the foundry's abilities
    to\r\noutput good TT (and especially if screen rendering matters).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 19:52:16'
- author:
    name: redge
  body: Thanks.  Given that the price is well in excess of US$500, I would like to
    think that their TrueType and PostScript are comparable, but perhaps this is something
    that I should discuss with them.  To the extent that we are designing on screen,
    screen rendering matters, but not otherwise.  My main concern about PostScript
    Type 1 is that it is being phased out.
  created: '2006-05-23 19:59:38'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "\u201CI have used both Macs and PCs in a serious production environment,
    and neither machine has an advantage over the other\u201D except for the near-impossibility
    of typing any characters outside the US-ASCII symbols on your U.S. keyboard. On
    which platform? Take a wild guess."
  created: '2010-03-25 01:34:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If you're talking about Windows: wow, I\r\ndidn't realize Armenian was in
    US-ASCII...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-25 01:38:43'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Joe, \r\n\r\nboth Mac OS X and Windows ship with a large number of keyboard
    layouts which you can use to type in pretty much any language. The Mac keyboard
    layouts are often a bit more interesting (they are more \"complete\", i.e. map
    pretty much every Option/Alt keystrokes to more or less useful characters, while
    the Windows keyboard layouts are far more conservative and only use a small number
    of Alt keystrokes just for the very essential characters). On the other hand,
    Windows has a far more superior support for various writing systems of the world,
    and ship with more fonts for non-European languages. "
  created: '2010-03-25 11:12:19'
date: '2005-12-08 18:22:38'
node_type: forum
title: TrueType Versus Postscript

---
