---
author:
  name: William Berkson
  picture: 110306
body: '&#62;in such a violent and problematic world, such things aren&#39;t the main
  drama ? <BR> <BR>You need to study more history. The world has been drenched in
  blood over religious differences.  <BR> <BR>Being casually tactless about religion
  - which is the subject here - shows a lack of understanding. Be insulting, or be
  tactful, but know that the impact of your words on other people will be different
  than among your friends.'
comments:
- author:
    name: ponofob
    picture: 110250
  body: I&#39;m not sure the better way to share point of view is the patronizing
    way. I know that religious questions have made wars, some of the worse, and still
    do. This is the point where the question of christiannity is different. After
    centuries, in the occidental world, there is hopefully no more wars related to
    christiannity. Knowing history, i think, is also knowing differences between different
    times. And the question is not to be insulting, even with friends. Making fun
    of something, parodying something, isn&#39;t insulting it. Not at all. Is &#34;The
    life of Brian&#34; an insult upon christiannity?
  created: '2003-05-23 19:57:15'
- author:
    name: ponofob
    picture: 110250
  body: 'Radical islamists don&#39;t do a war related to christiannity but islam.
    Christiannity is one of the &#34;other&#34;, not the cause. And, even if the charming
    president of the US speaks about religion things, all that he does hasn&#39;t
    any relation with christiannity nor any other religion. Anyway, none of it all
    as any relation with making fun of christiannity. If we begin by mingling unrelated
    questions, it won&#39;t help a safe talk about it. &#34;Your youth is written
    all over your comments&#34; : i found it really beautiful.'
  created: '2003-05-23 20:35:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>And blasphemy is only such if the person who do it is religious. Someone
    not believing in the holiyness of something doesn&#39;t make a blasphemy, it&#39;s
    only logical.</i> <BR> <BR>I disagree. Although blasphemy by a believer is surely
    a more serious affair because it presupposes knowledge of sinful nature of the
    act, even blasphemy carried out by an unbeliever carries with it the sin of scandal.
    Remember, you don&#39;t have to believe in sin in order to commit sin. <BR> <BR>If
    you recognise that something might be considered blasphemous by a believer but
    do it anyway you are demonstrating an understanding of the sin of blasphemy and
    deliberate intent. It doesn&#39;t matter whether you believe in what is blasphemed:
    you understand the objective conditions for blasphemy. The very large number of
    people without any religious belief who exclaim &#39;Oh God!&#39; or &#39;Jesus
    Christ!&#39; when angry, frustrated, etc. are commiting the objective &#42;act&#42;
    of blaspheming.'
  created: '2003-05-23 21:53:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;After centuries, in the occidental world, there is hopefully no more
    wars related to christiannity.  <BR> <BR>Wrong. I apologize for being patronizing,
    but your youth is written all over your comments.  <BR> <BR>Right now radical
    Islamists are urging murder of &#34;Jews and Crusaders.&#34; And my President,
    who doesn&#39;t have the excuse of youth, started to talk ignorantly about a &#39;crusade&#39;&#40;derived
    from the word &#39;cross&#39;&#41; against terrorism.  <BR> <BR>Now is not the
    time to be tactless about religion.  <BR>'
  created: '2003-05-23 22:37:58'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: '&#62;After centuries, in the occidental world, there is hopefully no more
    wars related to christiannity. <BR> <BR>What about Northern Ireland?'
  created: '2003-05-23 22:37:58'
- author:
    name: ponofob
    picture: 110250
  body: Well; i guess i should never have said that. None was related to the fact
    of having made fun of christiannity, at least.
  created: '2003-05-23 22:42:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;Making fun of something, parodying something, isn&#39;t insulting it.  <BR>
    <BR>What you don&#39;t seem to get is that many Christians are indeed offended
    by much in the media that disparages Christianity. Just because they aren&#39;t
    in your corner of the world, doesn&#39;t mean that they aren&#39;t everywhere.
    I can assure you that many are in the US, and that group includes our President,
    who is a serious Christian.  <BR> <BR>Religious anger, including Christian anger,
    is very dangerous. That is what I am saying you are naive and mistaken about.
    Not only Northern Ireland, but also Serbia are recent examples, still festering.  <BR>
    <BR>Ah yes, youth is beautiful. But naivite can be dangerous. '
  created: '2003-05-23 23:18:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'In Northern Ireland, religion is invoked in rhetoric and the divisions are
    broadly drawn along religious lines, but the conflict of the past thirty years
    is largely due to social and economic inequality, and the 20th century political
    history of Irish independence is more important than the longer religious history.
    In many respects, the situation in Northern Ireland is similar to that of apartheid
    in South Africa, only the systemic inequality is between Protestants &#40;mainly
    Presbyterian and unionist&#41; and Catholics &#40;largely, but not exclusively,
    republican&#41;, rather than between whites and blacks. The religious aspect of
    the conflict comes through most obviously on the Unionist side, in the rhetoric
    of anti-Catholic bigots like Ian Paisley, and the violence of the mobs that terrorise
    Catholic neighbourhoods during &#39;marches&#39; simply because they are Catholic.
    As far as I know, no one on the &#39;Catholic side&#39; ever describes their struggle
    as one against Protestantism: it is a political and civil rights struggle, not
    a religious war.'
  created: '2003-05-24 00:41:02'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: This board is becoming a hotbed of politics and religion.  <BR>My better instincts
    tell me to stay away from this thread. =&#41; <BR> <BR>You could argue that bible
    transcripts are a part of design  <BR>history as much as swiss posters were. Maybe
    it&#39;s fair game  <BR>for revival. Fair enough. &#40;I still don&#39;t see it
    as that compelling <BR>of a concept, but whatever.&#41; <BR> <BR>I think the line
    should be drawn when it comes to religous  <BR>symbols. A sense of respect for
    christians, religous non- <BR>christians and non-religous non-christians should
    deter  <BR>you from using a cross in the design &#40;whether or not <i>you</i>  <BR>think
    they&#39;re sacred&#41;. I hope you&#39;d make the same  <BR>consideration if
    you thought about using a star of david or  <BR>other similar symbol. <BR> <BR>Some
    of you seem to be suggesting that because the majority <BR>of the audience may
    be christian by culture &#40;as opposed to  <BR>christian by religion&#41; that
    they&#39;re fair game to mock. That&#39;s  <BR>a weak argument.
  created: '2003-05-24 01:01:42'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: 'Tiffany, If you are worried about inadvertently offending someone with the
    use of the &#39;cross&#39; on the cover, why not employ something as equally iconic
    or representative for advertising and design? Or would this substitution still
    be rergarded as blasphemous? crumbs. One could go around in ever diminishing circles
    with your advertising/design bible! I would quite like to know how you are going
    to resolve it. And I would like to know why you are choosing to represent advertising/design
    in a biblical format, cos it looks pretty or the blatant irony?  '
  created: '2003-05-24 01:11:44'
- author:
    name: saccade
    picture: 110388
  body: 'It&#39;s a pity that I&#39;ve left no more time in this interesting discussion,
    and in a few hours I have to leave for a seminar in book typography. <BR>So please
    excuse short words &#40;and bad english&#41;: <BR> <BR>Guillaume: I myself estimate
    separation between church and state a high good. But it&#39;s a way of respectable
    citizenship to respect the beliefs of others. You are right: Christians shouldn&#39;t
    care that kind of things - and in most cases I don&#39;t, sometimes I can join
    laughing. But not everyone is superior to making fun of something - and you should
    care of the weak. At least because their anger is dangerous for the state and
    for generous christians too. <BR> <BR>William: I can&#39;t look at Tanyas design
    that critical. Only the reference to the cross is problematic for me. It could
    be taken away without changing the &#34;bible style&#34;. But here in Germany
    &#40;and I think in Europe&#41; a lot of people are wearing little golden crosses
    as jewellry, and sometimes definitely not in a possible meaning of gods blessing
    - christians had to learn to make differences in the meaning and be generous &#40;though
    of course some few christians name that blasphemy&#41;. I havent been in USA:
    What about cross-jewellry in the USA? <BR>The &#34;Macintosh bible&#34; is more
    problematic for me. It&#39;s not only sacred symbols. &#34;Bible&#34; is for christians
    a sacred concept. If you take it to name such a profane thing - the association
    of &#34;holy scripture&#34; to a computer Manual - then in my eyes there is maybe
    more possible &#40;!&#41; blasphemy as in an inadequate use of the cross. &#40;But
    don&#39;t misunderstand me: I can use that books without heartaches, I only think
    it&#39;s inadequate and I&#39;m concerned about the way too much power, computers
    get in our world.&#41; <BR> <BR>John: I don&#39;t know too much about Northern
    Ireland, but the things I know &#40;that it&#39;s not at first a religious conflict&#41;
    make me think you are right &#40;&#34;anti-catholic bigots&#34;&#41;. And when
    I see/hear of that marches I&#39;m ashamed of that  <BR>doing in the name of protestantism.
    And I can&#39;t understand that it&#39;s still allowed by the government. <BR>
    <BR>on the jewish/islamic topic: I think, if an Israeli would take the Talmud
    design an transfer it to a profane context - the problem is all the same. If we
    did it across cultural lines  <BR>a&#41; it wouldn&#39;t be understandable  <BR>b&#41;
    other meanings would run along, for example a ridiculous attitude of the majority
    to the religious minority.  <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-05-24 01:40:02'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: kris, You said Tiffany. I think you meant Tanya.
  created: '2003-05-24 01:42:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>But here in Germany &#40;and I think in Europe&#41; a lot of people are
    wearing little golden crosses as jewellry, and sometimes definitely not in a possible
    meaning of gods blessing - christians had to learn to make differences in the
    meaning and be generous &#40;though of course some few christians name that blasphemy&#41;.
    I havent been in USA: What about cross-jewellry in the USA?</i> <BR> <BR>Huge,
    both in its popularity and the size of the crosses. In Germany they may be wearing
    &#39;little golden crosses as jewellery&#39;, but over here they&#39;re wearing
    gigantic pectoral crosses and crucifixes on heavy chains, sometimes more than
    one at a time. As well as metal crosses, bejewelled ones are also popular.'
  created: '2003-05-24 02:48:40'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: By &#39;over here&#39; I mean North America in general, and not just the USA.
  created: '2003-05-24 07:51:11'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: 'Michael Schlierbach said <i> &#34;The use of the cross on the cover could
    - if I think twice - bother me a little. Could it be that religious importance
    is applied to design and advertising ?&#42; I for example don&#39;t like books
    named as &#34;bible&#34; if they aren&#39;t&#34;,</i> <BR> <BR>I was a little
    worried about the cross, but I had imagined like you said naming something something
    when its obviously not - tacky by any means. but I also thought that the symbol
    &#40;a cross&#41; was pretty universal and well in a way, allowed to be used,
    worn and displayed. <BR> <BR>re points made by everyone else: It was not my intention
    whatsoever to mock, make fun of, or disrespect religions. No where inside or out
    was I going to have any textual/graphical content that related to bibles or religion
    specifically in any cheeky or humourous ways. This is why I really wanted to get
    the fonts correct - so that I wasn&#39;t &#34;mocking&#34;  I simply wished to
    <b>borrow</b> the look and feel of a bible for this book&#39;s layout. <BR> <BR>I
    had thought that perhaps is was risky - I mean we borrow design elements from
    everywhere else, but you don&#39;t see religious design elements influencing other
    areas very much at all and its all so beautifully done...It seems that only artists
    are allowed to use religious elements but when its graphic designer - we&#39;re
    locked out enless we are laying out a bible I guess. Its too bad it always stays
    within religious material and people get all worked up when its borrowed for something
    outside that realm. <BR> <BR>William Berkson said <BR><i>The issue is using symbols
    that are sacred to some in a way that negates their sacred symbolism.</i> <BR>
    <BR>I don&#39;t see how my use of a cross negates at all. Its 2 seperate messages
    - you see the cross first before you read the text - and the text does not make
    mention to religion. I didn&#39;t &#34;de-face&#34; it. Anyone who would be swayed
    to think that seeing my cross means anything less than a cross and their beleif
    &#40;if they had&#41; because it has a title mentioning 2003 awards inside it
    should visit their church immediately if the&#39;re that easlily influenced. <BR>
    <BR>k - back to reading the rest of this. <BR>'
  created: '2003-05-25 05:23:20'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: 'kris sowersby: I wish I could have resolved it or even had the chance to,
    but the issue has been layed to rest by mr. art director. probably for best now
    that I see everything going on in this thread now. <BR> <BR>You had also asked:
    <i> And I would like to know why you are choosing to represent advertising/design
    in a biblical format, cos it looks pretty or the blatant irony? </i> <BR> <BR>Oh
    boy, well I&#39;m pretty sure this is going to open up a whole new can of worms
    and everyone going to scream at me. here goes: <BR> <BR>The entire concept that
    I had developed started out with the theme &#34;15minutes&#34; opened to all the
    area firms to submit a concept for rolling out the campaign. <BR> <BR>Here&#39;s
    where it gets funny. I really wanted to submit something, the bosses weren&#39;t
    really into it. At one point over lunch art director was laughing to himself and
    mumbled out the idea. He said imagine a picture of a prostitute - that&#39;s all
    we need. and the title &#34;15 minutes&#34;. we laughed for a bit discussing the
    idea of how this year we&#39;ve basically been prostituting our artform, become
    corporate whores and all sorts of stuff.  <BR> <BR>Anyway: that night I decided
    forget the bosses, I&#39;m going to submit something for us anyway. I got dressed
    up, got a friend to take some shots of me leaning into a car and such. came up
    with the tag line saying: &#34;its been a tough year,...we&#39;ve all had to pull
    a few tricks&#34; threw it all together that night deciding that the prostitution
    swing of it would be for the call for entry, y&#39;no in saying hey guys, we know
    its tough - but come on and show us what you&#39;ve got anyway. <BR> <BR>Then
    further into the night I realized I could make this a full &#34;realization&#34;
    type of concept. I mocked up an escort card for &#34;the hooker in the poster&#34;
    - as a random giveaway with info about the awards and where to get more info.
    Certain emails targetting specific diciplines of design were sent out as notes
    from &#34;the hooker in the poster&#34; The tickets were actually keys with a
    &#34;hotel tag&#34; packaged in the envelop with the keys.. a note written on
    a cocktail napkin saying &#34;meet me at ...and a kiss mark.  During the Awards
    Night presentation the emcees would  make remarks about how it was that they came
    here for an &#39;appointment&#39;  The banners and decorations all &#34;look but
    don&#39;t touch&#34; and &#34;tisk tisk&#34; shame on you for being here kind
    of thing. y&#39;no people being persuaded that easily and commenting on how it
    is that sex still sells. - coming full circle in comparison to our industry. making
    things look appealing to our targets, being able to help clients get more money
    stuff like that. The venue was going to be at motel. And what do you find at a
    motel? when your going to meet a prostitute the one item in that room that could
    make you think twice might be that bedside table - you know there&#39;s a bible
    in there.  so the awards booklet - with all the winners was going to be layed
    out like as such. but that&#39;s not given out until the end of the night, after
    all the anticipation - its a take home and reference book. <BR> <BR>I had a much
    more eloquent rationale before but that&#39;s the general gist of it. I think
    <BR> <BR>So, anywho a couple weeks later - much to my surprise that night I had
    gone to the event about who won the campaign - they called our company name. Whopps!  <BR>
    <BR>I went in the next morning to tell the bosses what I&#39;d done. hey guys,
    I kind&#39;a submitted that idea just for fun, but we kind&#39;a won the campaign
    too - so umm we kind&#39;a havt&#39;a do it now I guess? <BR> <BR>Its pretty mcuh
    been my responsibility because they didn&#39;t want to participate in the beginning.
    So going along, going along, everythings worked out wonderfully...I&#39;m starting
    the layout of the book and all of a sudden the bosses take notice of how doing
    all this is fun and benefitial I start involving them a little more and ask for
    input - seems he has opinions about it all now. everything else has been produced
    and sent out - this is the last piece. LAST. and its back to the drawing board.
    <BR> <BR>the end <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-05-25 06:32:03'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: 'Ahh, thanks Mr Pemberton, I must have been a little dither-brained.  <BR>
    <BR>Tanya, &#40;sorry about the name mixup&#41; I have an enormous grin splitting
    my face in two because that is one of the most wickedly funny ideas I have heard
    in a long time! Ten thousand bravo&#39;s and cheers! '
  created: '2003-05-25 09:10:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;Only the reference to the cross is problematic for me. <BR> <BR>That
    is what I was saying as well. The word &#39;bible&#39; I believe just means &#39;book&#39;
    in Greek, so it doesn&#39;t have any sacred meaning in itself. You have to say
    &#39;Holy Bible&#39; or something like that to be clear.  <BR> <BR>&#62;&#34;the
    hooker in the poster&#34; - as a random giveaway  <BR> <BR>Oops. I didn&#39;t
    realize you were having a festival of bad taste. In that case, the cross fits
    right in. The degradation of women as amusing, Christianity as amusing. I don&#39;t
    think that ridiculing bad taste by even worse taste is a good idea, but maybe
    your intended audience will like it.  <BR> <BR>&#62;If we did it across cultural
    lines  <BR> <BR>I&#39;m afraid that you are overlooking the fact that in our world
    everything public is across cultural lines. There are plenty of Muslims living
    in Europe and the US and a fair number of Jews in France and England and North
    America. As well as Hindus, Buddhists, etc. And some of them are designers. <BR>
    <BR>Whatever the reasons that some of Christian heritage wear the cross, I can
    assure you that for non-Christians it is never a neutral symbol, or a symbol merely
    of religion in general. It is a specifically Christian symbol, and resonates with
    whatever good and bad feelings one has about Christianity.  <BR> <BR>FYI The layout
    of a page of Talmud - a central text with commentaries upon commentaries wrapped
    around it - doesn&#39;t have any religious sanctity associated with it. Nor, I
    think would the formats of printed bibles - 2 columns, drop caps etc. I don&#39;t
    see anything offensive about using either layout in another context. '
  created: '2003-05-25 15:54:32'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: William Berkson said <BR><i>Oops. I didn&#39;t realize you were having a festival
    of bad taste. In that case, the cross fits right in. The degradation of women
    as amusing, Christianity as amusing. I don&#39;t think that ridiculing bad taste
    by even worse taste is a good idea, but maybe your intended audience will like
    it.</i> <BR> <BR>You know about 10% of the people who received all the stuff thought
    it was horrible. I thought that was great that it made them upset, made them think
    a bit at least. The other 90% thought it was wonderful - and it still isin&#39;t
    over.  <BR> <BR>degradation of women?! who said women? first off no where have
    I layed a line saying prostitution is bad, wrong, disgusting, I used myself as
    a model, again - I prostituted MYSELF for the campaign. don&#39;t you understand
    the tag line? There&#39;s me dressed up in nylons and a short skirt. &#34;its
    been a tough year, we&#39;ve all had to pull a few tricks&#34; Its not that far
    off an idea. Many designers are taking side jobs, many designers are doing wotever
    they can to win that RFP. In any sector &#34;in bed with the client&#34; is a
    regular comment. All these things can be suggested by my campaign - but they AREN&#39;T.
    I put an image with a tag line and title - its up to the recipient to figure out
    what they want that to mean. I didn&#39;t shout any opinions whatsoever.  <BR>
    <BR>Your quick to judge whats bad taste and all you know is that I&#39;ve used
    a symbol from the  prostitution industry. What your really saying is that prostitution
    is in poor taste not my campaign. Am I to ignore industry&#39;s that exist simply
    because they might not be the holiest? I&#39;m simply making a correlation between
    the first, dare I say honest, and quintesential form of advertising &#40;prostitution&#41;
    and our industry today. Take for fact that what you see is what you get unlike
    how we might use animals to sell phones, kids to sell food, ect. ect. but now
    your saying using sex they way they might to sell sex is poor taste, oh yes they
    are awful awful people? I can&#39;t beleive what they do?, their industry is in
    bad taste? Get over yourself. In fact one could view it as a nod to the ladies
    of the night and its simple and everlasting existance.  I&#39;m acknowledging
    the ideas that are common between their industry and ours - if you&#39;ve come
    to the conculsion thats in bad taste I suggest you open your mind a little and
    take note of what you do for a living. You are no more holier than thou. A prostitute
    was used as a symbol, you should be able to see that the concept was actually
    relating to issues &amp; ethics, no opinions, no statements made - simply what
    goes on today and that I left it up to the recipients to discuss. Moreover I&#39;m
    poking fun at OUR industry, other industry&#39;s were used in very matter of fact
    ways.  <BR> <BR>would it have been better had I done some kind&#39;a designery
    eye-candy in some chic style, spring colours, with black turtleneck wearing glamour
    models sporting the lastest titanium notebooks? Is that concept in better taste
    for and ad/design awards? <BR> <BR>somehow I guess the industry over here sees
    through all that - for some reason they picked this campaign, I really didn&#39;t
    expect it but perhaps discussion is valued moreso then a purdy looking campaign
    that gets your attention but says crap all. <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-05-25 18:02:29'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: If one really wants to nitpick, the use of the Latin alphabet to represent
    just about any major modern language is inseperably tied to Christianity. Most
    all public and private education, scholarship and history in the Western world
    can be traced back to monasteries. &#40;And yes, much of it can be traced back
    further to classical times.&#41; Every time you write down what year it is, every
    time you write anything at all in the Latin alphabet, you are drawing upon &#40;among
    other things&#41; Christian history. <BR> <BR>Whether this demands any sense of
    reverence or caution obviously depends on what you believe, and you&#39;re certainly
    not going to offend anyone by merely communicating. <BR> <BR>Tanya, I understand
    and appreciate the message you&#39;re trying to convey, but don&#39;t expect every
    Christian to laugh off the casual appropriation of their symbols, regardless of
    what they&#39;re used for.
  created: '2003-05-25 19:17:58'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: <i>but over here they&#39;re wearing gigantic pectoral crosses and crucifixes
    on heavy chains, sometimes more than one at a time. As well as metal crosses,
    bejewelled ones are also popular.</i> <BR> <BR>There are Goths in Vancouver?
  created: '2003-05-25 19:24:41'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: 'John your right - and if this project had of gone ahead I probably would
    have removed the cross. I could have represented the look and feel of a bible
    just as well without it I&#39;m sure. I was unsure myself and heard it once by
    Michael that it irked him - so it would have been taken off. Its not that big
    of a deal or an element that&#39;s detrimental to the design. What I showed was
    simply my first comp. <BR> <BR>regardless of the cross - mentions of it being
    in bad taste are what are getting me going here. If anything its a reminder of
    their faith and beleifs. I don&#39;t see how using the look and feel of a bible
    is laughable or humourous and why any Christian should think so. What is I think
    in bad taste might be if I had a cross in Neon lights perched on top of the building
    - but unlike what some churches do to get your attention my use of the cross I
    thought elegant and respectful. I could have highlighted what was cheesy or silly
    of some congregations in my concept, I could have tied in the offers to the church
    and how they could get salvation, but that&#39;s bad taste, not honest representation.
    <BR> <BR>anyway - I don&#39;t think this has anything more to do with typography. '
  created: '2003-05-25 20:24:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;anyway - I don&#39;t think this has anything more to do with typography.  <BR>
    <BR>I think it has to do with questions of how designers use their skills, though
    more with symbolism than typography.  <BR> <BR>What I don&#39;t like about some
    &#39;satires&#39; is that they often can&#39;t make up their mind about whether
    they just admire what they are satarizing or actually want to change something.  <BR>
    <BR>I admire that you have the guts to be satirical. I guess the question is how
    does your viewpoint affect designers - in other words, what is the message you
    want to convey about how designers should act? If you are clear about this, I
    think both the design and the taste issues will be clear. <BR> <BR>I think that
    Christian and anti-Christian art can be in good taste or bad taste, and there
    is a lot in both categories. It is partly a question of honesty. <BR> <BR>Questions
    of taste are complicated and interesting, at least to me.  '
  created: '2003-05-25 22:48:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>There are Goths in Vancouver?</i> <BR> <BR>There are, but the current fad
    seems to be more widely spread. Part of it appears connected to some rap subsubculture
    of gold chains and shell suits.
  created: '2003-05-26 19:12:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>You know about 10% of the people who received all the stuff thought it
    was horrible. I thought that was great that it made them upset, made them think
    a bit at least.</i> <BR> <BR>I always find this justification disturbing: the
    idea that offending people = making them think. <BR> <BR>In my experience, people
    may be offended for two reasons: because they are prejudiced and are thus offended
    without needing to think about why they are offended or what is offensive, or
    because they have already thought very carefully about what they believe and so
    recognise something that is offensive. In the first case, causing offense is no
    more likely to make a prejudiced person think than anything else &#40;although
    there may be virtue in offending the bigoted, especially if important principles--e.g.
    civil rights--are at stake&#41;. In the second case, the person is already thinking.
    Again, in my experience, when 10% of people are offended by something, most of
    them are offended because the thing is offensive to what they think: the thing
    itself does not &#39;make them think a bit at least&#39;. They have already thought
    and come to the conclusion that some things are morally, aesthetically or intellectually
    offensive &#40;often all three&#41;. Typically, it is the 90% who are not thinking,
    who accept everything without question, and so cannot even imagine why something
    might be offensive.'
  created: '2003-05-26 19:27:25'
- author:
    name: capthaddock
    picture: 110400
  body: I hear that at soc.religion.christianity, religious discussions routinely
    break out in debates about typography! ;&#41; <BR> <BR>Paul
  created: '2003-05-26 23:09:03'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: 'Let me digress from the philosophistication: <BR> <BR>Hi Tanya, <BR>Don&#39;t
    know where this project is in development now, but wanted to add  suggestions
    about the pdf layouts way up the thread. I think these could make all the difference
    for your project. <BR> <BR>1&#41; Consider adding verse numbers every one or two
    lines throughout the text. <BR> <BR>2&#41; Perhaps a chapter number at the top,
    though this will probably interfere with your drop cap. &#40;The drop cap is defaulting
    in the pdf -- or was it adobe sans? :-&#41; <BR> <BR>3&#41; For the credits: most
    Bibles have some cross referencing system. Maybe format the credits to look like
    that? I&#39;ve seen three versions of cross referencing: a&#41; small column of
    text between your two body columns b&#41; below the right column of text. c&#41;
    below both columns of text. <BR> <BR>4&#41; Do gold foil for the text on the cover.
    I know the budget is non-existant, but this will make it scream Bible. <BR> <BR>5&#41;
    In a perfect world you would bind in a scarlet ribbon for a bookmarker. In a fallen
    world, just placing a length of trimmed ribbon would add to the Bibleocity. <BR>
    <BR>regards, <BR>Randy'
  created: '2003-05-27 13:34:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hehe. You could also have apparatus critici at the bottom of the page noting
    variant readings in different manuscripts.
  created: '2003-05-27 16:56:43'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: 'Paul, that&#39;s hilarious. I&#39;m going to laugh about that <BR>one again
    later. <BR> <BR>Overheard there: <BR>&#34;Comic Sans is the devil&#39;s font,
    I say. It only <i>looks</i>  <BR>friendly and innocent. It should be called Comic
    Serpent.&#34; =&#41; <BR> <BR>______ <BR> <BR>Tanya, on the one hand, I think
    it&#39;s a mistake to run through <BR>life afraid of who I might inadvertently
    offend. However, <BR>we&#39;re not  fine artists, we&#39;re a graphic communicators
    --  <BR>representing and communicating on the behalf of others.  <BR>That comes
    with a responsibility fine artists aren&#39;t bound to.'
  created: '2003-05-27 19:46:48'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: 'John Hudson: ok your twisting words here,..you mentioned that &#34;maybe
    the intended audience will like it&#34; I was simply giving you that answer..that
    90% did. 10% didn&#39;t. No one said they were specifically offended. One comment
    that sticks out was where a firm was upset because it wasn&#39;t anywhere near
    suggestive of a black tie affair, red carpets, grand hotels venues and the rest
    of the snobbery they were hoping for. I thought about  dropping a prestigious
    looking metallic filter on the type... for maybe 3 seconds. <BR> <BR>Sure it would
    have been &#34;nice&#34; to pretend our awards were the next nobel prizes, but
    really now, back to reality.  <BR> <BR>If anyone files a civil rights complaint
    with me for producing the campaign I&#39;ll letcha know. Until then I&#39;ll let
    my morals, ethics, wits guide me, and my art director, client, committee, and
    voting public can tell me what works for them -  <BR> <BR>It was simply an idea
    I had, that I didn&#39;t think was wrong,...what am I to do? Survey the entire
    planet before I let them have the concept? <BR> <BR>I wasn&#39;t too thrilled
    with the campaign BC&#39;ers had for their awards - how&#39;d it go? oh yes, &#34;What
    would you give to get an award...&#34;and an image of a woman offering a child
    up inside a van? <BR> <BR>It was the biggest surprise to me that it was chosen.
    It was a joke that we submitted - a joke that I guess hit a chord with the dim-witted
    industry out here. 10% of which your welcome to call upon to discuss how stupid
    the collateral was. <BR> <BR>Joe: &#60;i&#62;However,  <BR>we&#39;re not fine
    artists, we&#39;re a graphic communicators --  <BR>representing and communicating
    on the behalf of others.  <BR>That comes with a responsibility fine artists aren&#39;t
    bound to.&#60;/i&#62; <BR> <BR>Yes, thanks I&#39;m aware, the &#34;others&#34;
    did choose to have my concept represent and communicate for them - via committee,
    &amp; public vote. That vote was open to all area industry professionals.  <BR>
    <BR>I didn&#39;t impose this campaign upon anyone. <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-05-27 23:10:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>ok your twisting words here,..you mentioned that &#34;maybe the intended
    audience will like it&#34; I was simply giving you that answer..that 90% did.
    10% didn&#39;t.</i> <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t recall saying anything about the intended
    audience liking it. I think you were responding to William Berkson. <BR> <BR>I
    don&#39;t think I was twisting words. I was simply picking up on what you said
    regarding 10% of people being <i>upset</i>. That was the word you used, &#39;upset&#39;,
    and in the context of the discussion I took that to mean &#39;offended&#39;, since
    the discussion was about whether some design ideas might be offensive. You said
    that you were glad these people were upset because your design &#39;made them
    think a bit at least&#39;. I was simply querying this all too common notion that
    upsetting people = making them think. I really don&#39;t much care whether anyone
    was offended or upset by the imagery of prostitution or simply disappointed not
    to be able to have an excuse to put on a tux. I just don&#39;t see the presumed
    connection between being upset, for whatever reason, and being made to think a
    bit. As it happens, I think your prostitution idea is quite witty -- not in the
    best of taste, but nor are lots of other clever, amusing things --, I just don&#39;t
    think the people who were upset by it were necessarily provoked by it. Many of
    the things that upset or even offend me are simply tedious and banal and anything
    but thought provoking.
  created: '2003-05-28 00:34:03'
- author:
    name: aquatoad
    picture: 110555
  body: Double post, three weeks later. :-&#41;
  created: '2003-05-28 00:52:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;their industry is in bad taste? Get over yourself.  <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t
    think your personal attacks are called for. I agree with John Hudson that your
    concept is witty and not in the best taste. <BR> <BR>I suspect that I think it
    is worse taste than John does. Here are my reasons. According to the National
    Organization for Women, there are around the world one million girls every year
    snatched or sold into prostitution. In North America the sex industry I have read
    is full of pimps who drug and beat their girls to keep them in line, and take
    most of their money. Around the world, many are infected with AIDS. <BR> <BR>In
    prostitutes, you are talking about a class of people who are some of the most
    oppressed and miserable in the world. I just think the fact of this misery means
    that they are not a good topic of humor or wit. It falls flat on me. Is the sex
    industry &#39;awful, awful&#39; - yes it looks that way to me.  <BR> <BR>And yes,
    I do think it is degrading to give sex for money, and that sex is beautiful and
    even sacred in a good marriage. <BR> <BR>I may be wrong in my views, but I don&#39;t
    see how it makes me worthy of the contempt you heep on me.  <BR> <BR> <BR> <BR>    '
  created: '2003-05-28 03:32:06'
- author:
    name: tsprowl
    picture: 110458
  body: Sorry William - when I&#39;m being attacked for no apparent reason I tend
    to reply. I asked for ideas for fonts guys, nothing more. <BR> <BR>This is turning
    into a strange debate about gender roles when it was never, ever, ever suggested
    in my campaign.  <BR> <BR>I suspect if I had had a pimp in the ad instead of a
    prostitute it would have been the same argument? What if I had found a male friend
    at 3am that night and used him as the model for a prostitute would that have been
    the same argument? <BR> <BR>Prostitution is NOT the theme of this campaign, your
    really taking off on a tangent. By your standards we might as well  never have
    a gangster character in an ad piece - cause well - they kill people, skip politicians
    too or any gov. figure - cause they all lie.  <BR> <BR>I guess the Garry Marshall&#39;s
    movie &#39;Pretty Woman&#39;, Milk Money, Risky Business, Ron Howard&#39;s Nightshift,
    Elizabeth Taylor in Eight, Nick Cage&#39;s Leaving Las Vegas was all pretty poor
    taste too. they had prostitutes in them.  <BR> <BR>Furthermore, what your describing
    has nothing to do with my campaign. I simply  havn&#39;t gone anywhere near illustrating
    the horrors that can happen in my campaign. Its just a character I&#39;m associating
    with.  <BR> <BR>But if I&#39;m going to argue we can point out that sex work does
    not encourage the demeaning of women. Poverty demeans women, and by jumping right
    off on that neo-Victorian bandwagon your displaying a condescending belief that
    prostitutes don&#39;t know what they&#39;re doing and need somebody with more
    education to protect them. While some may, other women actually choose the profession.
    In fact many well-off North, South American, European,  Asian and a whole gamut
    of women choose the profession over their medical practice, law degrees. We could
    argue issues of economic equality, affirmative action, and sexual liberation...but
    please not my having a &#34;character&#34; in an ad piece. <BR> <BR>Would it help
    if I said the prostitute in my ad chose her profession and she&#39;s not beaten,
    dosen&#39;t do drugs, and has no pimp to report to. In fact she&#39;s having a
    good time? I did after all volunteer and give consent to myself to use the picture.  <BR>
    <BR>To rival your association plug there&#39;s also the <i>&#34;President
  created: '2003-05-28 05:47:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>But if I&#39;m going to argue we can point out that sex work does not
    encourage the demeaning of women. Poverty demeans women, and by jumping right
    off on that neo-Victorian bandwagon your displaying a condescending belief that
    prostitutes don&#39;t know what they&#39;re doing and need somebody with more
    education to protect them. While some may, other women actually choose the profession.</i>
    <BR> <BR>I know this is a popular view today, but this sad article tells a different
    story, and I don&#39;t think anyone can accuse <i>The Guardian</i> of being on
    a &#39;neo-Victorian bandwagon&#39;: <BR> <BR><a href="http://www.guardian.co.uk/comment/story/0%2C3604%2C952285%2C00.html"
    target="_blank">http://www.guardian.co.uk/comment/story/0,3604,952285,00.html</a>
    <BR> <BR>Voluntary prostitution of the kind you describe is very much the minority
    and, as Liz Kelly, director of the child and women&#39;s abuse study unit at London
    Metropolitan University, even those women who &#39;choose the way of life ...
    talk of the terrible damage it did them, once they get out of it&#39;. The unfortunate
    truth is that most &#39;sex trade workers&#39; are slaves of one kind of another:
    financially, physically or by addicition. <BR> <BR>As you say, this is turning
    into a strange debate. I&#39;m ready to go back to typography.'
  created: '2003-05-28 07:14:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;when I&#39;m being attacked for no apparent reason I tend to reply <BR>
    <BR>Tanya, I didn&#39;t attack you, and I did initially make appropriate typeface
    proposals. After you made clear your proposal I criticised it as in bad taste,
    and explained why. I never attacked you personally, only your proposal. There
    is a difference. <BR> <BR>I think that tough criticism of works in progress is
    productive, and personal criticism counter-productive.  <BR> <BR>  <BR>'
  created: '2003-05-28 14:08:13'
- author:
    name: anonymous
  body: except my campaign is not a work in progress. it is not a proposal I posted
    for criticizism. it was reviewed by countless professionals here and chosen. it
    was produced, ran and now its over - I&#39;m laying out the book about the awards
    - that part was posted for suggestions. <BR> <BR>My work didn&#39;t produce itself
    - you make judgements about the concept and taste that is talking about me, not
    the paper its on, your not talking about how the layout was composed, my skill
    or techniques. Your not talking about the work at all. You havn&#39;t seen any
    &#34;works in progress&#34; with which to argue these points.  <BR> <BR>I take
    criticism about my ideas &amp; judgement too personally, is that it? <BR> <BR>...I&#39;m
    sorry, that you heard about it; sorry that you think its an awful campaign; I&#39;m
    sorry no one stopped it for your sake and for all the prostitutes who are having
    a bad time, all the young women with AIDS  and drug dealin abusive pimps who are
    struggling to get by, all the designers who thought I was making fun of prostitutes
    and didn&#39;t see I was poking fun at the advertising industry and lastly I&#39;m
    sorry if anyone in the advertising industry is sleeping with clients, hiking up
    the skirts to meetings, completing spec work, having to deal with client directed
    artwork, kissin&#39; up, brown nosin&#39;, dinning with ceo&#39;s instead of their
    families, taking pay cuts, all the overtime...sorry if my suggestive ad pointed
    any of that out and made sense, I certainly didn&#39;t mean to say that I think
    hookin&#39; is great idea, and I&#39;m sad that some get caught in it. <BR> <BR>thats
    it thats all <BR> <BR>
  created: '2003-05-28 17:37:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Tanya, you rule. <BR> <BR>&#62; ITC Weidemann <BR> <BR>But what a homely lc
    &#34;g&#34;!  :-/ <BR> <BR>&#62; Ask yourself, would you consider making your
    project look like the Qu&#39;ran or the Talmud? <BR> <BR>It&#39;s not so simple.
    Nothing is equal, certainly not to an individual. Political correctness is for
    politicians &#40;and look where they&#39;re taking us&#41; - real people have
    real opinions, and there are very few good reasons to hide them. Selling more
    of your crappy product &#40;I don&#39;t mean you, Tanya&#41; is not one. <BR>
    <BR>As for using a cross, I think it&#39;s just peachy, except in terms of possibly
    being too self-important. It has to <i>deserve</i> it - although certainly not
    because Christianity is such a respectable religion - I&#39;m a Christian &#40;on
    some level&#41;, but I don&#39;t think it&#39;s so hot. I myself use it simply
    as a device against assimilation, since we Armenians have our own branch. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; What about cross-jewellry in the USA? <BR> <BR>Well, middle-eastern-looking
    Christians have developed decidedly stronger necks since S-11... <BR> <BR>&#62;
    the use of the Latin alphabet to represent just about any major modern language
    is inseperably tied to Christianity. <BR> <BR>This is so obviously incorrect.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; I was simply querying this all too common notion that upsetting
    people = making them think. <BR> <BR>Well, emotion is indeed a great trigger for
    thought. <BR> <BR>&#62; most &#39;sex trade workers&#39; are slaves of one kind
    of another <BR> <BR>You mean unlike the rest of us?  :-/ <BR> <BR>Prostitution
    is an integral part of society, and I&#39;m not talking specifically about the
    sexual variety. And some people are prostitutes to their faith, or themselves.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-06-03 05:32:47'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: 'I wrote: <i>the use of the Latin alphabet to represent just about any major
    modern language is inseperably tied to Christianity.</i> <BR> <BR>Hrant replied:
    <i>This is so obviously incorrect.</i> <BR> <BR>Aaack, you&#39;re right. I&#39;m
    so sorry. The correct spelling is &#34;inseparably.&#34;'
  created: '2003-06-03 06:01:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Quick Reminder: <BR>You celebrate Christmas on the wrong date because of
    the people who invented the Latin alphabet! <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-03 06:07:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: '&#62;tied to Christianity.  <BR>The uppercase letters are pre-Christian.
    The lower case - Carolingian miniscule - was developed by Christian scribes. It
    isn&#39;t either-or but both-and. When the decision was made in the renaissance
    to mix the two alphabets, Carolingian miniscule was used as the closest in look
    and feel to the true Roman letters. To me black letter is much more tied in spirit
    to Christianity, in particular to Gothic Churches. <BR> <BR>&#62;Prostitution
    is an integral part of society, and I&#39;m not talking specifically about the
    sexual variety. <BR> <BR>The metaphor has been overused to death. Metaphorical
    and real prostitution are two very different things. That is what got me so exercised
    about Tanya&#39;s campaign.  <BR> <BR>I just saw on TV, though, that there in
    a program in which 15 women are competing for 1 man, but the man is not told that
    the actual prize for &#39;winning&#39; is not the man, but one million dollars.
    This is so many orders of magnitude worse than anything in Tanya&#39;s campaign
    that I feel a little sheepish about having called her on the relatively minor
    violation of taste involved in her campaign.  <BR> <BR>'
  created: '2003-06-03 15:17:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Your Western-ness is written all over your comments. <BR>Get over the primacy
    of the physical realm - it&#39;s an illusion. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-06-03 16:29:17'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: So, Hrant, you&#39;ve taken us back to discussing whether the  <BR>physical
    realm is real and whether we can really objectively  <BR>know anything. You must
    have missed that thread while  <BR>you were out. =&#41;
  created: '2003-06-03 21:40:40'
- author:
    name: johnbutler
    picture: 110494
  body: <i>Get over the primacy of the physical realm - it&#39;s an illusion.</i>
    <BR> <BR>This pretty much sums up my investment strategy during the late 90s.
    I&#39;m not so keen on it these days.
  created: '2003-06-12 19:47:57'
date: '2003-05-23 19:41:12'
title: Bible faces

---
