---
author:
  name: istitch
  picture: 111061
body: "hello Typophiles:\r\n\r\njust moments ago, i received the latest [and final]
  issue of Emigre. to my surprise, the entire book is set in Filosofia and i was wondering
  what you all thought.\r\n\r\ni remember there was a recent topic in which some people
  felt very strongly about the use of a modern face for text and i find it interesting
  that the people who created this typeface decided to use it in this way. \r\n\r\nthoughts?..\r\n
  \r\n\r\nbtw\r\nit is not my intent to citicize Emigre for this."
comments:
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "so i guess no one has an opinion about Filosofia used as a textface? whatever...
    i think it works just fine. viva Emigre!\r\n\r\n\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-12-08 23:44:41'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Filosofia, for me, is a gorgeous display typeface ... and maybe small amounts
    of text. I''ll be getting my copy shortly. Will be interesting to see. It is not
    too contrasty and the serifs are soft, so I suppose I can see it being used. Isn''t
    Filosofia their most recent OpenType upgrade? Makes sense that they would use
    it. '
  created: '2005-12-09 04:25:23'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: ">small amounts of text\r\n\r\nperhaps it works well with this issue because
    it is a compilation of 69 short stories.\r\n\r\n\r\n----------------------------\r\nnc\r\n\r\nps\r\ni
    just finished the first 15 stories and can't wait to finish the book this weekend\u2026\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-09 08:09:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To fittingly paraphrase Luc[as]:\r\nWe Read With Oblivion To Bad Typography
    What We Adulate Most.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-16 18:25:22'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "^\r\nsounds pretty lofty to me.\r\n\r\ni've been reading the book fine (admittedly
    in short spurts though).\r\n\r\n--------------\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-12-16 19:17:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "> fittingly paraphrase:\r\n\r\nWe Read With Oblivion To Good Typography What
    We Resent Most."
  created: '2005-12-16 19:44:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Lofty? Using a Bodoni for text is lofty.\r\n\r\n> i\u2019ve been reading
    the book fine\r\n\r\nYup, like I said.\r\n\r\nNick: Or like you've said, \"It's
    all good\", eh?\r\nBut resent is certainly correct. That one sick\r\nmantra has
    done so much harm, it's just sad.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-16 20:03:09'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "what about short texts though?  the book is 69 short stories that are each
    no more than 2 pages. i, like most others, have been and probably will continue
    to read a few stories at a time and the Filosofia isn't bothering my eyes at all.
    i am able to recognize each word with ease. whether or not it would be suitable
    for text in another situation, i don't know.\r\n\r\nin the book, Rudy Vanderlans
    does a little paraphrasing of his own: \r\n\r\n\"Zuzana's notion, that people
    read best what they read most, is a post-structuralist critique, or so we're told.
    She'd recognized that legibility is not a natural phenomenon but a fairly arbitrary
    construct, contingent on cultural values and therefore open to change\". \r\n\r\n--------------------------\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-12-16 21:29:52'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "By \"short text,\" Tiffany probably means three or four lines (I know that's
    what I mean when I write \"this font is perfect for headlines and short pieces
    of text\u2026\").\r\n\r\nEven two pages is too much to read when text is set with
    a display type instead of a real text face. Note: I haven't seen this Emigre issue,
    so I can't say what the case here is."
  created: '2005-12-16 22:42:37'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "Dan: i see what your saying. thanks for clarifying\u2026\r\n\r\nhowever,
    i think i remember a post in which a very prominent type designer explained that
    he had been successfully setting a magazine in Filosofia.\r\n\r\n--------------------------\r\nnc\r\n\r\nlet
    me try to find the thread\u2026"
  created: '2005-12-16 23:06:12'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "\"Body Text with Futura\" is the thread i am referring to (in the Design
    Forum).\r\n\r\nsorry i can't figure out how to make a link to the thread\u2026\r\n\r\n---------------------\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-12-16 23:20:04'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: I have been using Filosofia as a text face in the quarterly magazine I do
    for the Royal Ontario Museum for years. I think it suits the kind of writing the
    magazine contains. My experience is that it is superior to the strict bodonis
    as a text face, and not as effective as a display face.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]
  created: '2005-12-17 01:23:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> legibility is not a natural phenomenon but a fairly\r\n> arbitrary construct,
    contingent on cultural values\r\n> and therefore open to change\u201D.\r\n\r\nThere's
    nothing arbitrary about the shape of the human retina or how our brains prefer
    to decipher and compile information. It doesn't matter how much FF Extra you read,
    you'll still read FF Quadraat better (assuming a few hours of training if you
    just happen to be Tarzan and Jane only showed you texts set in FF Extra for two
    years or something).\r\n\r\nLegibility is open to change? Duh. That's the easy
    part. Some of us are trying to better grasp the hard part. And what about the
    true nature of Familiarity - like how quickly is it gained? Virtually nobody has
    had the balls to consider that seriously. Sixty-nine issues and you'd think the
    entire foundation of their design philosophy would get some critical, lucid airtime...\r\n\r\n>
    I think it suits the kind of writing the magazine contains.\r\n\r\nIn my book
    the intent of a publication would have to be pretty strange to <cite>really</cite>
    justify any Bodoni*. For example, Hamm's book on Arabic is very suited to it,
    but only because its premise is laughably Modernist. To quote** G W Ovink: \"Bodoni
    is an admirable letter for a death notice!\" So yes, <cite>any</cite> font is
    useful sometimes...\r\n\r\n* Although we would have to define \"Bodoni\". Much
    harder than one might think!\r\n\r\n** Actually that's an amalgamation of two
    sentences of his.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-17 05:16:47'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "cool, i think i've spawned a rant from Hrant! : )\r\n\r\nseriously though\u2026\r\n\r\ni
    think that the physiological research that you are referring to is very interesting
    and valid. however, it is not, and should not be, the end all.\r\n\r\nevery human
    being has a unique way in which they perceive things. we all draw upon our own
    iconography to decipher the forms that come before us.\r\n\r\nalthough there are
    many techniques that we rely on to keep things consistent, there can and always
    will be room for preference and change. design is not science.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n-------------------\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-12-17 07:16:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> design is not science.\r\n\r\nBut there is no reason to banish science
    as one tool of the tools used in design. Science isn't just useful for consistancy
    in craft or art.\r\n\r\n> every human being has a unique way in which they perceive
    things.\r\n\r\nPerhaps, but not utterly unique. Overlaps dominate. Big time.\r\n\r\n>
    a fairly arbitrary construct, contingent on cultural values and therefore open
    to change.\r\n\r\nThere is something to this but it's not nearly enough to base
    a whole theory of type design on - and it isn't a practical place to start. I
    think she meant it as a tweak on the nose of sleepy stolid type industry. I am
    not sure it didn't need it at the time. Radicals often have to overstate things
    to be heard. Who knows what she says over a glass of wine. She may be mellower.
    And even if she isn't - so what?\r\n\r\nDogmas are not helpful - skepticism and
    using your own eyes is."
  created: '2005-12-17 10:00:33'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "who's trying to banish science?  i am just making the point that in design,
    it is dangerous to assume that there is only one way to do something. as i said
    before, it's not the end all. if it was, then someone would figure out the super-perfect-absolute-complete-and-total-legibility-formula
    and all type would look the same. \r\n\r\nperhaps someone is on the verge of cracking
    this code? is that going to make people read and understand things any better?
    who knows??\r\n\r\ni read an article in Print about a typeface called Clearview.
    its creators are on a crusade to convert all the roadsigns in america to what
    they believe to be a superior typeface. in their minds, this is supposed to improve
    something. i think the improvement would be marginal, at best.\r\n\r\nin this
    example we are discussing Filosfia as an effective textface. Filosofia is based
    on Bodoni, which doesn't work for text, due to its high stroke contrast. however,
    according to Emigre, the contrast in Filosofia was toned down in order to make
    it more suitable for text. i agree with this and feel that it is working fine
    in the book. \r\n\r\nis there another typeface out there that would work better?
    perhaps.\r\n\r\nEmigre is not the end all either. maybe i just like the fact that
    Zuzanna Licko's types are not perfect. they seem like they were crafted by a human
    being and i think that gives them a lot of character. perhaps Filosofia isn't
    the most legible typeface ever created\u2014i never said it was.\r\n\r\n-------------\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-12-17 17:05:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it is not, and should not be, the end all.\r\n\r\nAgreed 100%.\r\n\r\n>
    But there is no reason to banish science\r\n\r\nExactly. That's the other extreme.\r\n\r\n>
    Radicals often have to overstate things to be heard.\r\n\r\nTrue. It is part of
    the nature of human communication that shock and over-simplification are often
    needed. On the other hand, once one is given the opportunity to elaborate, things
    had better start making more sense.\r\n\r\n> its creators are on a crusade to
    convert all the roadsigns\r\n> in america to what they believe to be a superior
    typeface.\r\n\r\nUnlike Licko and some others, Montalbano is no crusader. He's
    a designer.\r\n\r\n> i think the improvement would be marginal, at best.\r\n\r\nObjective
    testing has shown otherwise.\r\n\r\n> i just like the fact that Zuzanna Licko\u2019s
    types are not perfect.\r\n> they seem like they were crafted by a human being\r\n\r\nThat's
    a good point, and an important factor. But I think there's a difference between
    making a glyph that has a natural charm, versus something like a poorly spaced
    \"e\", versus a typographer using a Bodoni for text simply because he feels he
    needs to simplify his life or something.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-17 17:23:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> using a Bodoni for text simply because he feels\r\n> he needs to simplify
    his life or something.\r\n\r\nJust to be clear: I didn't necessarily mean Peter.
    Plus do note the \"or something\". I don't know the nature of the book Peter used
    a Bodoni for, or the true nature of his life, so... That said, frankly I do think
    he's too Modernist; and setting Bodoni (justified?...) is one possible symptom
    of that.\r\n\r\nBTW:\r\n> the contrast in Filosofia was toned down\r\n> in order
    to make it more suitable for text.\r\n\r\nBut why even bother, if WRBWWRM? Just
    like with something like NotCaslon, the reader will get used to anything and everything
    after the first paragraph or something anyway, right?\r\n\r\nThe truth is: that
    was a good move; and Licko's skills and understanding have -not surprisingly-
    improved over the years. Unfortunately what has been lacking is an admission that
    good craft matters after all; that even something as subtle as stroke contrast
    has an effect on the quality of the product. What has been lacking is a big fat
    asterisk on their mantra.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-17 18:11:05'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "------------------------\r\n>a typographer using a Bodoni for text simply
    because he feels he needs to simplify his >life or something.\r\n\r\nnot quite
    sure what you mean by that but, moving forward\u2026\r\n------------------------\r\n^
    \r\n(looks like Hrant beat me to this one; his explaination was already posted
    by the time i finished writing this one)\r\n\r\n\r\nwould it be more difficult
    to read if the text was set in Copperplate? most definitely. \r\nwould it be more
    difficult to read if the text were set in Didot? absolutly.\r\n\r\nthe bottom
    line is that Emigre No. 69 is set in Filosofia and there is no way to change that.
    i can read the text with no problem. can you?\r\n\r\n---------------------\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-12-17 18:15:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "{Sorry, I was editing/appending while you were writing.}\r\n\r\n> Emigre
    No. 69 is set in Filosofia\r\n\r\nAnd that might in fact be another case of good
    usage of a Bodoni. Which however doesn't justify ignoring potential problems,
    or in this case -since the editor and designer are the same person- of the problem
    with the content (since it's related to type design, otherwise we wouldn't need
    to worry about the content).\r\n\r\n> i can read the text with no problem. can
    you?\r\n\r\nFirst I'd have to make the time to get a copy (and I'm sure some day
    I will). But I can guess: being a type designer (of a certain kind) I would constantly
    be miffed while reading the thing - but that's my problem, and not anybody else's
    fault; if I were a layman, I would not consciously notice a problem - but the
    problem would still be there; not a problem that's going to change anybody's life*,
    but still. The merits of text face design are \"subvisible\", and conscious layman
    ignorance is no justification for bad craft.\r\n\r\n* Almost nothing in type design
    ever does that anyway.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-17 18:23:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> Objective testing has shown otherwise.\r\n\r\nI agree. I have a certain
    positive feeling about the old face in terms of culture - wacky I know - but driving
    in bad weather I will be grateful for signs in the new typeface. Or even good
    weather! This is not to say that it would be impossible to improve on in future
    either.\r\n\r\n> who\u2019s trying to banish science?\r\n\r\nOkay, just tying
    to clarify. There are plenty of folks all too eager to kick science out of what
    they see as their 'creative space'. And then there are those too eager to kick
    it out of science policy or the classroom when it doesn't suit them too... Hrants
    point that Artists have been too eager to think 'I don't need science' or 'What
    I do isn't touched by science, or can't be helped by science' is I think correct.
    Even if he sometimes overstates things himself. Anyway I didn't mean to offend
    or to lump you (or him).\r\n\r\n> absolute-complete-and-total-legibility-formula
    and all type would look the same.\r\n\r\nEven then, even if such a thing were
    to happen, type would by no means have to look or feel the same. Supporting reading
    in typeface design is a complex balance and there is always going to be a variety
    of possible balances available to be struck. There is no danger from any frankenomniuniversiclonetype.
    That's a false boogeyman if ever there was one."
  created: '2005-12-17 18:30:37'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "Hrant,\r\ni think i agree.\r\n\r\n----------------\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-12-17 18:32:29'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "Eben,\r\n>frankenomniuniversiclonetype\r\nnice.\r\n\r\ni see what you're
    saying an i agree. \r\n\r\n-----------------\r\nnc"
  created: '2005-12-17 18:37:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">There is no danger from any frankenomniuniversiclonetype. That\u2019s a
    false boogeyman if ever there was one.\r\n\r\nI'm not so sure.\r\nConsider what
    happened to newspaper text type in the 20th century, with corporate-technological
    concentration leading to a monopoly position for Linotype machines, combined with
    a \"scientific\" ideology of legibility directing font development. There wasn't
    much choice of text faces, and that part of our culture became stagnant prior
    to Murdoch's Augean cleansing.\r\n\r\nNow take a look at Microsoft's ClearType
    faces. They're a very close bunch designwise, from a combination of pre-design
    criteria that made it difficult for them to be otherwise. Some of that is the
    constraints of the technology leading to certain optimal forms, some of it --
    in particular the Greek and Cyrillic -- is due to the conservative one-size-fits-all
    culture that globalized corporate concentration engenders. And some of it is design
    that panders to the \"faster is better\" aesthetic beloved of scientists and engineers.\r\n\r\nReductive
    design theories based on supposed scientific logic have been used as the basis
    of design reform for centuries. The engineering of real-world products always
    falls short, but that doesn't stop the next generation of engineers saying \"that
    was then, but we'll get it right now. Pony up the cash and let's get that Star
    Wars shield built pronto.\" \r\n\r\nOne should also be aware of that progressive
    ethos in design where subtlety of execution is derided, where the preferred type
    is Arial, and the preferred logo is a square with the name knocked out. Here,
    artists are thinkers, not makers. This is a genuinely new paradigm, and if it
    leads to frankenomniuniversiclonetype, then perhaps that's the way things are
    supposed to go in our MicroMacrAppleGooglAdobia future."
  created: '2005-12-17 20:40:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> some of it \u2014 in particular the Greek and Cyrillic \u2014\r\n> is due
    to the conservative one-size-fits-all culture\r\n\r\nOn the contrary, it's in
    much-needed opposition to the globalizing scourge that is Latinization, such as
    in the design of Greek fonts based on an egocentric \"internal consistency\" formal
    Modernist hobgoblin, something users at large need about as much as a slave labourer
    needs better chains.\r\n\r\n> Reductive design theories based on supposed scientific
    logic\r\n> have been used as the basis of design reform for centuries.\r\n\r\nIndeed.
    But lately the misguided \"artist mentality\" that Eben elaborated on has had
    too much sway, at least in the field of type design, and it's time to right the
    balance. The widespread, sincere, intelligent and brave reaction you're seeing
    now, and the timely fall of the 90s aesthetic (not to mention that of the 2-3
    decades preceding it) is natural and needed. Maybe what would work is if I pointed
    out that it's simply no longer fashionable...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-17 21:39:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">much-needed opposition to the globalizing scourge that is Latinization,\r\n\r\nI'm
    talking about conservatism, not Latinization.\r\nThe gatekeepers hired by Microsoft
    to authenticate its Greek and Cyrillic bundled fonts are conservatives, necessarily,
    given the extent of the font distribution, and their role as guardians, buffers
    lightening the heavy hand of cultural imperialism.\r\nBut wouldn't it be better
    to let users speak with their own voices?\r\nAnd make their own choices about
    which fonts they prefer to use?\r\n\r\n>the misguided \u201Cartist mentality\u201D\r\n\r\nI
    prefer the \"design mentality\", which contains the best aspects of both science
    and art.\r\nWhat concerns me is when the design mentality loses its balance, and
    pays too much attention to either art or science.\r\n\r\nThe digital revolution
    wasn't solely about crazy fonts. There was some pretty wack software out there
    too, science run amok, if you will. It wasn't artists who screwed up graphics
    and typography by inventing Photoshop filters, for instance. It was a Pandora's
    box, to call it \"misguided\" is absurd -- you can't have a guided revolution!
    When I say screwed up, that's not a diss, \"the roads of excess lead to wisdom\"
    as Wm Blake put it. \r\n\r\nHrant, I'm puzzled how you reconcile two aspects of
    your philosophy.\r\nOn the one hand, you're all for a scientific understanding
    of how reading works, but on the other you're against Modernism, which is surely
    hand in glove with science.\r\nPlease explain.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-12-18 00:27:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The gatekeepers hired by Microsoft to authenticate its\r\n> Greek and Cyrillic
    bundled fonts are conservatives\r\n\r\nNo, they're not - at least not in the way
    that matters most - at least not the Greek side. The norm for contemporary Greek
    type for one remains that of Latinization, and the MS fonts go against that. In
    this case conservatism equates to Latinization. So when it comes to non-Latin
    design, strangely enough you're the one on the conservative side believe it or
    not!  :-)\r\n\r\nAs for Cyrillic, it's a much harder battle,\r\nbecause it was
    Latinized by royal decree...\r\n\r\n> But wouldn\u2019t it be better to let users
    speak with their own voices?\r\n\r\n1) That's easier said than done. Souvlaki
    buddies in Toronto isn't it.\r\n2) When you ask the wrong users -or the people
    with more money than wits & integrity- you end up with a monument of long-term
    cultural damage like what happened to Greek in the 70s. Also, simply asking the
    users the <cite>wrong way</cite> can mislead you totally. It's a very tricky thing,
    trying to figure out what people <cite>really</cite> want and need; asking them
    for explicit answers can never ever work.\r\n\r\n> What concerns me is when the
    design mentality loses its balance,\r\n> and pays too much attention to either
    art or science.\r\n\r\nIndeed. And it has been doing it to the former for too
    long.\r\n\r\n> you can\u2019t have a guided revolution!\r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\n\"A revolutionary
    has a cool head and a warm heart.\"\r\n-Lenin\r\n\r\n\"Revolution, go slow.\"\r\n-Robert
    Plant\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m puzzled how you reconcile two aspects of your philosophy.\r\n\r\nI
    can see how it's confusing in this environment where everything is lumped within
    two extremes, be those Science or Art, or Chirography and Post-Modernism; but
    there is [at least] a third way.\r\n\r\nThe trick with separating Science and
    Modernism is leveraging the former as a tool without falling for the latter as
    an ideology. You don't turn Science into a religion; faith is always necessary,
    but not in something that's only half the story. The key is to realize the limits
    of knowledge, of control; but this does not justify breaking windows for the hell
    of it.\r\n\r\nSo I don't try to make a perfectly legible type. But neither do
    I go ahead and make whatever useless junk my emotions tell me to. I study, I think,
    and then try to <cite>serve others</cite> - even if I know I can never fully succeed.
    What Science can do is guide, and what Modernism can't do is relinquish control,
    to jump into the darkness - but that's the only way to mark progress. The PoMo
    people had good intentions and good instincts, but they let their selves dominate
    what is necessarily a servile field. So I guess now we need to find another term
    for what <cite>should</cite> have been...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-18 02:54:30'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Souvlaki buddies\r\n\r\nThat's offensive. End of discussion (with you)."
  created: '2005-12-18 04:45:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nick, your points re frankenomniuniversiclonetype are excellent but I am
    not sure they add up to the imminent utter dominance of frankenomniuniversiclonetype.
    I mean sure Arial & Verdana & eventaully the Cleartypes will dominate in the sense
    that they will be 'unfairly' ubiquitous. But there is more choice now than there
    has ever been & that is set to keep improving. Some of the choices are not too
    sweet & there are not too many fonts made with their point size in mind, or version
    for pt sizes or whatever we might most want but there is lots & lots & lots of
    choice. I am not saying that it is a wonderful market. That would be a different
    thing.\r\n\r\n> Microsoft\u2019s ClearType\r\n\r\nIs this state of affairs any
    worse or better than the font sets offered in the past? I would say that it's
    slightly better because the printed type will suffer less in cleartype from the
    imposition of screen needs on the type design. \r\n\r\nThe thing about an OS &
    bundled fonts is that in general you do need to be sure that an average user's
    basic needs are met by offering some type or the OS is useless. In the case of
    80's & 90's OS - the type had to be what it was - screen & print type where loads
    of compromise was made so that sceeen could match print to some degree.\r\n\r\nWhile
    I understand your point about OS & application companies bundling too many fonts
    I also know that the ubiquity of Georgia & Verdana made me happy because I was
    tired of Arial & Times.\r\n\r\nReading over your posts here I am not sure what
    you would advocate - or precisely the nature of your complaint because much of
    the way it things are today seems inevitable to me. On the other hand I would
    like to know how you would do things if you ran MicroMacrAppleGooglAdobia. Would
    you for instance suggest a voucher system where users could use their points towards
    independant fondry fonts? \r\n\r\n> The digital revolution\r\n\r\nEven though
    some dubious type was & there were some design excesses I don't particularly regret
    what happened in the 90's. Some really wonderful stuff happened too. At some point
    the interest in craft etc will turn into a willfull bullheaded unthinking kneeejerk
    'conservatism' which will need to be tweaked again - albeit in a new way.  \r\n\r\nNobody
    was stopping anybody from doing good work in the 90's. Nobody is stopping us now.
    What people are willing to pay for is a different issue."
  created: '2005-12-18 17:14:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "{The following is based on a long and balanced post that Nick made last night.
    A few minutes after my reply below however Nick decided to replace his post with...
    that thing.}\r\n\r\n> The ClearType fonts are conservative because they are respectful\r\n>
    of traditional proper Greek and Cyrillic typography.\r\n\r\nAgain focusing on
    the Greek:\r\nWhat's \"traditional\"? Current Greek tradition is Latinized, and
    only specialists are aware of the old stuff*. These fonts are against that - they
    are a gentle, quiet revolution of sorts, and if it takes a megacorporation to
    give a culture the boost it needs while the masses are diluting it, hey, then
    that's one good thing about MS! Not as good as a benign monarch, but still. :-)
    \ The fact that free fonts from large companies make life harder for some small
    type designers is quite secondary in terms of the wider benefits to society. One
    has to be candid and brave enough to admit that. If MS were pushing heavily Latinized
    crap on people, then I'd complain.\r\n\r\n* Noting BTW that many experts -especially
    native ones- consider things like the Aldine Greek to be misguided design. Did
    you know that?\r\n\r\n> I was talking about end users choosing their own fonts\r\n\r\nWhile
    I was talking about deciding what kinds of fonts to make, so way before there's
    a chance for that. And if you base your font-making decisions entirely on what's
    already out there, of course you're marking zero cultural progress. While if you
    base your design decisions on what turns you on personally, chances are quite
    good very few other people will need the results.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s because they
    really want them\r\n\r\nWhich is not good enough. That's what happened in the
    70s to Greek. Please stop.\r\n\r\nA society based on wants is exactly what's sending
    the world downhill of late.\r\n\r\n> I trust my emotions (I\u2019ve been practising
    for a while, so hopefully\r\n> I\u2019ve developed some useful design instincts),
    and try and make the\r\n> type read as well as possible.\r\n\r\nBut it is exactly
    without Science that you can't strike a good balance between the two. Myself,
    I have faith that based on what [I think] users need (not merely want) and guided
    by Science (although not the formal western definition of it) my self-expression
    will result in useful things.\r\n\r\nThere's a difference between trusting one's
    emotions (which everybody does to some extent, but nobody should do absolutely)
    versus guiding one's self-expression towards serving others. I've been making
    fonts -for other people- for over 20 years now, but I still try to look upon my
    emotions from the \"outside\" instead of getting drunk on them - I feel that's
    the key to being a reasonable world citizen.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-18 18:18:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "User opinion:\r\n\r\nSo Nick, please give advice to somebody trying to decide
    what sort of Greek fonts to make by telling us what experience you have with gauging
    what Greek font users want*. What Greek-font-buyers have you interviewed, and
    what market research** have you carried out? Also: Did you base Albany on any
    such thing, or did you base it instead on a desire to exercise internally-consistent
    formalist shape-making, leading off directly from the Latin master that you so
    emotionally... painted?\r\n\r\n* Yes, just want, for the sake of argument.\r\n\r\n**
    Of course you'd have to do the research yourself, only a clueless idiot would
    rely on the research of others, right?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-18 18:35:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">I am not sure what you would advocate - or precisely the nature of your
    complaint because much of the way it things are today seems inevitable to me.\r\n\r\nI
    am not sure what I would advocate. My complaint is that font bundling by Microsoft,
    Apple, and Adobe is unfair to independent foundries. Perhaps their behavior is
    inevitable, because nobody is powerful enough to stop them.\r\n\r\nBTW, I agree
    with you that there is lots of opportunity for good work, and there is a strong
    market for indie fonts. The narrow focus of the ClearType fonts should leave space
    for other foundries to fill. So it is not all doom and gloom. But for the mainstream
    of font users who don't buy indie fonts, it's homogenous typography -- no matter
    how good the type design and how sharp the image. \r\n\r\nHrant, your most recent
    post (11.18) was much more polite and intelligent, and I'm tempted to reply, but
    I'm not going to continue the discussion, because from past experience I know
    that you would soon again resort to personal attacks (eg 11.35)."
  created: '2005-12-18 18:52:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> your most recent post (11.18) was much more polite and intelligent\r\n\r\nThen
    why did you remove your -balanced and full- reply to the allegedly offensive post
    <cite>after</cite> I made the good one? Do you not value your own expressions
    beyond their tactical/rhetorical value? Is this a little battle you're waging,
    as you've alluded to before? Because I can't see the battlefield - or at least
    the one I see doesn't have you in it. Note also that the post you removed also
    contained direct reference to the souvlaki comment... I guess maybe you were in
    a more balanced mood last night as opposed to this morning? After all, we're all
    human. Hey, maybe you need a vacation... in Greece.  :-)\r\n\r\n(Man, don't you
    just wish you could edit <cite>my</cite> posts as well!)\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m not
    going to continue the discussion, because ...\r\n\r\nIf I were you, I'd have a
    much better reason not to reply: your position\r\nis virtually indefensible. But
    artists don't need to justify their work.\r\n\r\nReally, Nick, it's not you, it's
    your ideas.\r\nYou'd have to be friend or family for me\r\nto actually care personally.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-18 19:11:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">Then why did you remove your -balanced- reply to the allegedly offensive
    post after I made the good one?\r\n\r\nCrossed post.\r\n\r\n>your position is
    virtually indefensible.\r\n\r\nAnd Happy Christmas to you too."
  created: '2005-12-18 19:21:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Crossed post.\r\n\r\nIt took you overnight to realize my post was offensive,
    and then it\r\ntook you almost two hours* to replace your post with a single line?\r\nCome
    on, Nick, this isn't a sandbox. If your position is defensible,\r\nand being a
    prolific poster it's not like you can't make the time,\r\nthen please make the
    time (or at least don't spend time removing\r\nbalanced things you've already
    written).\r\n\r\n* And tellingly a few minutes after I made my \"good\" post.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I hope you have good holidays - I really do.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-18 19:39:51'
date: '2005-12-08 22:02:45'
title: Emigre. (No. 69)

---
