---
author:
  name: andpue
body: Hello. First time poster here. Just curious to see what opinions and forecasts
  are floating around here in regards to typographic trends to look out for in the
  coming year. Any insight?
comments:
- author:
    name: Jan Sandvik
    picture: 110080
  body: "I think we are going to see lots of Arial and Comic sans the coming year.\r\n\r\n(sorry,
    couldn't resist :)"
  created: '2005-12-12 20:49:47'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "Are you talking about trends in the use of type (graphic design) or type
    design?\r\n\r\nI'm a graphic designer, judging from the top selling font lists
    I've seen on myfonts, veer and t-26, scripts are a big seller. I think there is
    always room for unique display types, and is something I look for personally."
  created: '2005-12-12 22:25:07'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Half gut feel and half educated guess:\r\n\r\nI believe we are in for a big
    change in the way typefaces are made available to the graphic design market.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    we are still waiting for the shakeout/changes by Adobe on Macromedia product line."
  created: '2005-12-12 22:38:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't think anything earthshaking will happen in 2006.  Typography will
    evolve at its current rate.  My only gut feeling is that type designers will more-and-more
    sell their own wares.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-12 23:08:55'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: Towards the end of 2006 we'll be seeing more and more of the new Windows Vista
    fonts.  You won't have to use Arial any longer!
  created: '2005-12-12 23:11:00'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">we are in for a big change in the way typefaces are made available to the
    graphic design market.\r\n\r\nWhat new way did you have in mind?"
  created: '2005-12-12 23:35:50'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: 'Modern Times: The Age of the Machine.'
  created: '2005-12-12 23:42:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\">we are in for a big change in the way typefaces are made available to
    the graphic design market.\"\r\n\r\nI think he means they will be available on
    iPods and designers will have Cellebrity Designer \"Playlists\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-12 23:52:28'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Educated guesses:\r\n\r\nMore bundling of font packages aimed at non-professional
    markets (like the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/15111\" target=\"new\">Ascender
    Creativity Font Pack</a> for only $19.99) which will in fact degrade the per font
    perceived value within new markets we potentially could sell to.\r\n\r\nMore font
    bundling within software packages aimed at non-print professional and consumer
    markets (web, video, digital imaging).\r\n\r\nMore font bundling within multi-software
    packages (like Adobe CS2. Surprise, surprise... I got fonts I never had or installed
    before).\r\n\r\nGut feel:\r\n\r\nI just have a feeling that <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/16326\"
    target=\"new\">TypeExpertise.com</a> wants to do more than just create a \"universal
    type classification\" system based on touchy-feely search criteria. Why the hell
    go through all that effort unless you want to start selling fonts to non-type
    oriented markets.\r\n\r\nAnd there are other distribution modes in development
    and on the drawing board for getting old and new markets to use more type."
  created: '2005-12-13 01:50:31'
- author:
    name: andpue
  body: I agree entirely that the method of distributing type will change drastically
    sometime in the nearish future, and I am also looking forward to the day when
    Arial packs it's bags - but to clarify my initial intent, I am more interested
    on usage to come. Am I out of line by saying Trade Gothic is reaching overuse?
    Thoughts?
  created: '2005-12-13 02:39:16'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: More Avant Garde Alternates? haha
  created: '2005-12-13 03:26:25'
- author:
    name: balonius
    picture: 111212
  body: "Hopefully distressed faces will go away. You know the ones I mean...\r\n\r\nBalonius
    Funk"
  created: '2005-12-13 04:37:38'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "R.I.P. grunge. I'll miss you.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/grungey.gif]"
  created: '2005-12-13 05:33:08'
- author:
    name: rob keller
    picture: 109886
  body: "1) Art fonts...\r\n\r\n2) The newest technology and how you use it is always
    big.\r\n\r\n\r\nRob"
  created: '2005-12-13 06:57:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Maybe more fonts that designed with specific pt sizes in mind.
  created: '2005-12-13 07:24:19'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Aquatoad Design is forcasting a big year for PMS 1665U. Grunge will not dissappear
    in 2006. It will gain strength and make landfall with reknewed vigor online (this
    time at standards compliant force). In other news, 2006 marks the beginnining
    of a rennaissance period for illustrators. The fledgling trend of funky handlettered
    headlines continues. Century and Clarendon will make a strong showing as lowercase
    a's with monster tails abound.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 13:52:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yo Randy, you are, like, Nostradomus man!\r\nYou just left out the \"World
    coming to an end\" part :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-13 14:17:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lauri,\r\n\r\nLovin your grunge EULAgy man:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-13 14:18:27'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I think the highlight of 2006 will be Mark Simonson's release of Courier Flair.
  created: '2005-12-13 14:26:59'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">More bundling of font packages aimed at non-professional markets (like the
    Ascender Creativity Font Pack for only $19.99) which will in fact degrade the
    per font perceived value within new markets we potentially could sell to.\r\n\r\nHmm.
    The Ascender pack it seems includes two of four weights of Font Bureau's Eagle,
    and one of three weights of Mark Simonson's Coquette. Perhaps what is going on--and
    will continue to--is a segmentation of the market, with fonts aimed for the professional
    market being very full families and Open Type features--with correspondingly higher
    prices. And then the bundling of selected weights as a marketing tool. Adobe seems
    to be different here, as their bundling is aimed at enhancing the value of their
    production software, which nobody else producing fonts has to sell.  "
  created: '2005-12-13 14:28:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I think the highlight of 2006 will be Mark Simonson\u2019s release of Courier
    Flair.\"\r\n\r\nIs that the one with swash caps and flourishes? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-13 14:29:28'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Aquatoad Design is forcasting that the world will come to an end. Possibly
    in 2006 (PMS 433U). But, maybe not (PMS 2905U).\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 15:06:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-13 15:20:10'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I think the highlight of 2006 will be Mark Simonson\u2019s release of
    Courier Flair.</em>\r\n\r\nActually, it will probably be my release of Courier
    Flair, or something that could pass for it: an as-yet-unnamed face based on an
    old MacKellar, Smiths and Jordan classic called, somehat prosaically, \"Lightline
    Italic.\" Look for it in January 2006.\r\n\r\nAnd Aquatoad has it all wrong: the
    world will not end in 2006. However, be forewarned that the Mayan calendar ends
    rather abruptly in 2012..."
  created: '2005-12-13 18:41:43'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<cite>However, be forewarned that the Mayan calendar ends rather abruptly
    in 2012\u2026</cite>\r\nI was thinking the same.."
  created: '2005-12-13 19:06:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"However, be forewarned that the Mayan calendar ends rather abruptly in
    2012\u2026\"\r\n\r\nThat was the Mayan version of Y2K :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-13 19:08:49'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: " -- I think we are going to see lots of Arial and Comic sans the coming year.\r\n\r\nSo
    I should just ride out the wave and not re-design my bl**dy publication because
    it'll come back into typographical style? ;) \r\nMaybe I should just quit. *sigh*\r\n\r\nKristina\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 19:51:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Arial!, you've been to the surface again, haven't you!?\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kingtriton.JPG]"
  created: '2005-12-13 20:09:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: So Mark, are you going to Courier Flair?
  created: '2005-12-13 20:21:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Acually a while ago they predicted magenta would be the next orange & it
    pretty much was. That is of course over now. Does anybody know what colors are
    actually being circulated as the next big direction? I see ink spots & drips going
    out. The huge use of those stylistic tropes by comedy central & apple ipod ads
    are rapidly making them passe.\r\n\r\nIn my dreams: lots of odd japanese greens
    in blue green & yellow green & green brown that we never see. With some pink bits.
    But that could be because winter is so deep here in Alaska.\r\n\r\nOf couse the
    next big thing in type will be flipdot fonts."
  created: '2005-12-13 22:17:30'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: '...but typographers will be left out in the cold - they will be made by graphic
    designers to work in flash & by plug ins for motion graphic packages. Fontlab
    will introduce a fancy version of photofont ( v3) that makes animated bitmap fonts
    but it will already be too late. '
  created: '2005-12-13 22:20:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I think Mark's Courier Flair will replace Helvetica/Arial as the web standard.
    (I can't wait for Mark's comments)
  created: '2005-12-13 22:53:25'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "<em>Will happen in 2006:</em> More grubby fonts will come bubbling up through
    MyFonts and more people will buy them. The best seller list will become uglier
    than ever. This can only be a good thing for the industry. Some snobby type designers
    will thumb their noses at the great unwashed buying \"type\". (And they'll pronounce
    \"type\" with just enough emphasis to make it clear to everyone that they are
    smart enough to call it type, and not fonts). Other companies will seize the opportunity
    and make wads of cash a-la Wal-Mart. In short, the markets for non-professionals
    will continue to expand. At the same time, professional users will become even
    more addicted to OpenType features, and continue to pay a premium for beautiful
    work, driving sales and encouraging creativity in type design like it's never
    been possible in the past.\r\n\r\n<em>Wishful thinking:</em> Software makers will
    realize that hard coding a control panel into each application for each OpenType
    feature is ridiculous. They will simply implement an engine to read the available
    features out of the font, and allow the users to turn them on or off. People setting
    type without the help of Adobe's multiline composer will either finally go completely
    insane spacing by hand in Quark or will actually die of old age. Everyone else
    will finally dump Quark for Microsoft Word, and not know the difference. \r\n\r\n<em>Will
    happen in in the future but not necessarily in 2006:</em> Adobe will become all
    powerful and start to atrophy, though it won't be completely obvious to everyone.
    Then, after a few years, Adobe will have become a blubbering glutton, unable to
    move under it's own weight, gobbling 10,000 calories a day of fried food. Since
    nothing has changed inside their software in years (though a lot more code will
    be added to top of the pile), open source apps will finally have copied every
    piece of functionality in each app. Smaller, smarter companies will invent new
    paradigms that promise to revolutionize the industry. They will, of course, be
    purchased and dismantled immediately. Finally, Adobe will start to crumble from
    within, as all empires do, with pressure from the barbarian tribes (open source)
    and the next round of smart, nimble companies will carve them to pieces creating
    a lot more work for open source to copy."
  created: '2005-12-13 23:27:20'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Courier Flair</em>\r\n\r\nIt was a joke! Still, if you think there would
    be a demand... :-)"
  created: '2005-12-14 00:20:38'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: Christian, well said -- and very funny.
  created: '2005-12-14 00:46:30'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Courier Flair\r\n\r\nIt was a joke! Still, if you think there would be
    a demand\u2026 :-)</em>\r\n\r\nWell, I wasn't kidding...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/msj_lli.gif]"
  created: '2005-12-14 01:00:32'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Gee, Nick, that's a completely different thing than what I did.\r\n\r\nFor
    those who missed it the first time around:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/courierflair.gif]\r\n\r\nIf
    that doesn't make you feel even a little bit woozy, don't be surprised if I don't
    come to you for typographic advice. :-)"
  created: '2005-12-14 01:34:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "C'mon Mark, you are not getting off the hook that easy--where is the swash
    OTF and contextual ending strokes? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-14 01:50:09'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Well, it wouldn't be the first time I made a font on a lark that turned out
    to have a market.
  created: '2005-12-14 02:28:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That is far better than doing a font that you thought DID have a market and
    it turned out to be a lark!  I'll bet the Flair pen company would like it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-14 02:52:51'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>That is far better than doing a font that you thought DID have a market
    and it turned out to be a lark!</em>\r\n\r\nSadly, that scenario is much more
    common."
  created: '2005-12-14 03:15:45'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Hey man, Courier flair already happened in the form of a custom face for
    Martha Stewart Living. Okay, so I'm only half joking...\r\n\r\nAt an AIGA talk
    with Jonathan and Tobias in SF this past summer Jonathan described the creative
    direction for a new face that MSL wanted. The AD wanted to start with an existing
    face but weren't sure what it was. It turned out the face they were talking about
    was Courier. The new typeface carries a cousin-like resemblance, but is actually
    a very nice take on an old typewriter face. (Of course there isn't a lot of flair,
    unless you count some nice ball terminals.)"
  created: '2005-12-14 07:13:55'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: In 2006 Hrant will release his Baskerville. Raph will make his curves a real
    alternative. I won't be doing much typography-wise.
  created: '2005-12-14 10:57:57'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Sorry about the joke Mark, but I couldn't resist. I detest flair faces because
    a lot of designers don't know how to use them descreetly. Its like the Avant Garde
    alternatives.
  created: '2005-12-14 12:17:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sergej,\r\nLOL!!! That was your best ever!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-14 13:41:32'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'i''m suspecting that scripts and OT fonts that reproduce the handlettered
    look will fare well in 2006. sans faces will remain a staple of the top font sales
    at <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/bestsellers.html">MyFonts</a>, with Interstate
    eclipsing Frutitger mid July, but it won''t be able to knock Helvetica out of
    the #1 sans spot.'
  created: '2005-12-14 17:18:16'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Sergej, not only will Hrant release his Baskerville but it will have worse
    kerning pairs than Mrs. Eaves. Paul Helvetica is doomed to Courier Flair.
  created: '2005-12-14 21:43:15'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "When I laugh at the jokes, that I'm finally getting from hanging around here
    I sometimes think to myself 'Am I seriously laughing at typography jokes?' and
    then I just keep browsing looking for more gems.\r\n\r\nSeriously though, enough
    with the handwriting typefaces, if that's the look you want then just write it
    by hand. I know there are some beautiful script/handwriting examples out there
    but I guess I don't understand why all these people are coming out of the woodwork
    with their first type face attempt being a handwriting face?\r\n\r\n/continues
    off in search of more jokes"
  created: '2005-12-14 22:39:43'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: oh, i didn't mean scrawl handwriting, but stuff that looks like it's been
    handlettered by a lettering master.
  created: '2005-12-14 22:50:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: More Ed Benguiat Reviving! Give me Plinc! or give me death.
  created: '2005-12-14 23:02:19'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<cite>oh, i didn\u2019t mean scrawl handwriting, but stuff that looks like
    it\u2019s been handlettered by a lettering master.</cite>\r\nOh! Here, here! My
    neighbor's dad has been hand lettering signs and vehicles/pinstriping for over
    50 years and his work is amazing. I'm totally down with that style. :-D"
  created: '2005-12-15 01:16:51'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "<strong>2006</strong>\r\n\r\nTypecon in July will be even hotter than it
    was in New York. But hotter in which ways? You better go and find out!\r\n\r\nVeer
    will be bought by Getty and Getty will be bought by Corbis and Corbis in turn
    by Macrodobia.\r\n\r\nMacrodobia will announce that it's getting back to its roots
    by making mud homes in the desert. These eco-friendly dwellings will be renamed
    Flashmud and be entirely made out of recycled PDF and straw.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft
    will continue to gain cool points with the Xbox 360 even though the aptly named
    <em>Halo 3: Guess What, Another Mysterious Ring in Space!</em> will flop. The
    franchise will drive itself into the ground with a Halo live-action movie that
    only makes records by doing worse than <em>Hulk</em> in box office receipts. \r\n\r\nSomebody
    in North America will buy a game for their PSP."
  created: '2005-12-15 06:57:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "FontLab Studio 5 will be ported to the Blackberry. Type designers will be
    seen on subways everywhere all thumbs making kerning pairs en route to their day
    jobs\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-15 11:19:55'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: Looks like Chalkboard died a quick death in 2005. It was a new born but I've
    never seen it ever used. Poor little bastard child.
  created: '2005-12-16 09:27:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Chalkboard died a quick death ...I\u2019ve never seen it ever used.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe
    because it gets erased too quickly:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-16 15:27:58'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "Re.: Joes '2006'.:\r\n\r\nAldus / AltSys will, well, return and re release
    TLTFKAFH <em>( <a href=\"http://www.freehandsource.com/_frames/_misc/_history/fh_version_history.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">The Lovely Thing Formerly Known As FreeHand</a> )</em>, now
    named 'Aldus Blatt' <em>( '<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/13058\" target=\"_blank\">Hedera</a>',
    which also translates to 'Aldus Page' / 'Aldus Leaf', as well.. :)</em>..\r\n\r\n<em>And
    I may even be pretty thankful for it.. :)</em>\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2005-12-16 16:25:53'
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "To see the future you must consult with the spirit world. I have asked the
    <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/ihof/mysticfont.html\"  target=\"_blank\">Mystic
    Font</a> some questions based on predictions already made here. The fonts has
    been pretty good in the past, but the <a href=\"http://www.p22.com/mysticpredicts.pdf\"
    \ target=\"_blank\">answers this time</a> seem dubious.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-16 19:35:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Brilliant Richard!!! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-16 19:42:48'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>In other news, 2006 marks the beginnining of a rennaissance period for
    illustrators. The fledgling trend of funky handlettered headlines continues. </em>\r\n\r\nI
    wish! Randy, if that's true you'll be my new god."
  created: '2005-12-16 20:36:23'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>not only will Hrant release his Baskerville but it will have worse kerning
    pairs than Mrs. Eaves. </em>\r\n\r\nLOL!"
  created: '2005-12-16 20:39:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Terry,\r\nJudging by your new avatar, you are not in a holiday mood?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-16 20:49:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Remember Chris Terry turned blue when he was a south park character. But shouldn't
    he have Norbert glasses?
  created: '2005-12-16 21:02:28'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Chris, that avatar is from his new website, which you must go see.
  created: '2005-12-16 21:08:08'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>Judging by your new avatar, you are not in a holiday mood?</em>\r\n\r\nOn
    the contrary, I love Christmas. But let's not forget it is cold outside! :)"
  created: '2005-12-16 21:25:03'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "\"Ive got to go\" \"but baby its cold outside\" Terry I bet you didn't miss
    the last three days in NYC average 19\xBA F. Finally broke today mid 40's."
  created: '2005-12-16 21:40:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 2006? the stock, gold, and commodities markets crash. Money becomes useless,
    making  software the new currency. Fonts become the small change, like pennies,
    nickles and quarters, handed about on keychain USB drives shaped like like the
    letters they contain. Kerning becomes obsolete, along with hints and uniform formats
    as counterfit coins proliferate. The number of type designers skyrockets into
    the billions, so The Netherlands is renamed Shriftijdonia and extended, with the
    purchase of the top half of Mt. Saint Helens, 200k into the north sea to make
    room. 07? don't ask ;)
  created: '2005-12-16 22:01:38'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: The geniuses that proposed the memorial (that can't work due to enviromental
    concerns) and the first WTC that is faitaly flawed will eventually have to admit
    it. Mayor Bloomberg will take the project over and make it work. Since 9/11 nothing,
    I repeat nothing has happened at that site and it sickens me everytime I pass
    it. 2006 is just 2 weeks away.
  created: '2005-12-16 22:53:56'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "In 2006 ,Helvetica Flair will resurface and destroy the newly incubated Courier
    Flair.\r\n\r\nSorry Mark."
  created: '2005-12-17 02:47:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "in 2006, <a href=\"http://www.identifont.com/show?1FG\">Schmelvetica</a>
    will finally reach its promise and unseat its semi-namesake from the top of the
    \"Most Overused\" list. Chester won't know whether to cringe or cheer :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-17 15:50:45'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "Geez, people! Talk about going off on a tangent. Is this some kind of contest
    with the winner being one with the lamest, geekiest joke?\r\n\r\nI was serious
    about Hrant, and Raph, and me. I don't know how realistic my prediction is, but
    I am hopeful. Because you know what? Because I do believe in people,\r\nespecially
    in people like Hrant,\r\nespecially on a winter day like this,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;especially
    when my boss lets me go home earlier,\r\nespecially when it's quiet outside\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and
    I have food in the fridge\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and my body doesn't
    hurt,\r\nespecially when I don't read Typophile\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;or
    today's newspaper\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;or my own diary,\r\nespecially
    when I have time to write a silly poem\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;and
    a letter to a dear friend,\r\nespecially on a winter day like this,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;I
    do believe in people,\r\n&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;especially in people
    like Hrant."
  created: '2005-12-17 16:01:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cool and funny stuff guys!\r\n\r\nMy sole prediction (historically I've made
    too\r\nmany) is that fancy bitmap fonts will go big.\r\n\r\n> Does anybody know
    what colors are actually\r\n> being circulated as the next big direction?\r\n\r\nAny
    color as long as it's notan.\r\n\r\n> it will have worse kerning pairs than Mrs.
    Eaves.\r\n\r\nSheesh, I'm not prepared to put THAT much effort into it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-28 04:54:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Is this some kind of contest with the winner being one with the lamest,
    geekiest joke?\"\r\n\r\nGosh, I sure hope so or I have really wasted mucho ascii
    characters on this thread :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-28 14:20:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>In 2006 Hrant will release his Baskerville. Raph will make his curves
    a real alternative.</em>\r\n\r\nHrant, Raph, you've got two months... >^P"
  created: '2006-11-01 17:00:19'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: anyone working on Comic flair?
  created: '2006-11-03 11:04:10'
date: '2005-12-12 20:07:31'
title: Trends for 2006

---
