---
author:
  name: twardoch
  picture: 110427
body: "Fontlab Ltd. is proud to announce the release of the 12th (!) product this
  year. After TransType SE 2.5 for Mac and Windows, TransType Pro 3.0 for Mac and
  Windows, FogLamp for Mac and Windows, Photofont Start for Mac and Windows, Sigmaker
  2 for Mac, Fontographer 4.7 for Mac and FontLab Studio 5 for Windows, we have just
  released FontLab Studio 5 for Mac, the long-awaited next-generation professional
  font editor for Mac OS X. \r\n\r\nCome and see: \r\nhttp://www.fontlab.com/The-News/Announcements/FontLab-Studio-5/\r\n\r\nAs
  Yuri Yarmola just put it: \"What a crazy year!\" \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab
  Ltd. \r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Very nice!
  created: '2005-12-12 22:51:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Geez Adam, I already bought it! :-)\r\n\r\nThanks for all your good work
    and for being a good sport about my friendly jibes about when the Mac version
    would be available. I asked if would be available by Christmas. You didn't answer
    then but you did it!\r\n\r\nI downloaded it within seconds of your post after
    seeing Miss Tiffany's announcement.  As soon as the serial numbers arrive, I will
    take it for a spin.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-13 00:05:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Just got my serial numbers. That was way faster than the couple of hours
    your web site said it would take!\r\n\r\nThanks FL Gang!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FL5macscrn.jpg]\r\n\r\n
    ChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-13 00:44:25'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "I have it! Really good! \r\n\r\nBTW what about printed user manual? "
  created: '2005-12-13 00:45:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nthe printed user manual will be available soon from OnDemandManuals.com.
    \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 01:01:41'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "where's the color (nodes - no more green, red)  ; and the nodes - too small;
    any way to change that?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nedit: Thank you Adam.\r\n\r\nanother question:\r\nwhere's:
    Tools > Transform --> Select an action: \r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 01:05:50'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: Check the Glyph window page in Preferences.
  created: '2005-12-13 01:17:31'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Very nice!</em>\r\n\r\n...except for FogLamp, which --at $79.00--is somewhat
    of a rip..."
  created: '2005-12-13 01:18:11'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Thanks Yuri\r\n\r\nedit: false alarm.  I see the ' Tools > Transform \u2014>
    Select an action:'"
  created: '2005-12-13 01:41:31'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Congratulations and thank you Yuri and the FontLab team for bringing this
    great new tool to us Mac users.\r\n\r\nI do have one comment about a new feature
    which was (I believe) based on a <a href=\"http://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:5wpiqxCvH-gJ:www.typophile.com/forums/messages/4101/10995.html%3F1088700935+site:typophile.com+resedit&hl=en&client=safari\">suggestion
    of mine</a>...the \"neighbors\" feature.\r\n\r\nWould it be possible to make it
    just a bit more interactive? \r\n\r\nAs it is, the \"neighbors\" are loaded when
    FontLab starts up from the file \"neighbors.txt\". If you want to see different
    neighbors next to a glyph, it seems that you must quit FontLab, alter the text
    file, and start FontLab up again. However, I did discover an undocumented feature
    (at least it's not mentioned in the manual): Control-clicking on a neighbor and
    choosing \"Choose...\" from the pop-up menu opens a \"Choose neighbor\" dialog
    box. Wonderful, except this choice only applies to the right-hand neighbor. There
    does not seem to be any way to choose a different left-hand neighbor.\r\n\r\nThere
    ought to be an easy way to choose neighbors as you are working. The undocumented
    \"Choose neighbor\" function is close. Ideally, there would be two text fields
    at the top of the Glyph window or on a palette in which you could type the names
    of the two neighbors. \r\n\r\nThe separate text file is a nice idea, but having
    a different semi-permanent pair of neighbors for every glyph is not really how
    I imagined something like this would work. For me, it would be better if there
    was a global pair of neighbors which remained the same as I go from glyph to glyph,
    especially if they could easily be changed as I worked. An external list could
    be used the same way as the metrics strings, where you can choose them from a
    pop-up menu.\r\n\r\nAnyway, this is not to diminish what a big step forward this
    new version represents, but I hope you think about my suggestion. There is a lot
    to like about this release. I've already purchased and installed the upgrade."
  created: '2005-12-13 15:14:51'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: In Win version you can also drag-drop glyphs from FW onto right or left neighbors.
    But I need to check if it is implemented on Mac the same way :-)
  created: '2005-12-13 16:08:16'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "support++\r\n\r\nBtw, this is important info for all beta testers: you have
    to remove this file before installing release:\r\n/user/library/application support/fonlab/studio5/workspaces/currentworkspace.rc\r\n\r\nAlso
    you cannot import any saved workspaces or preference files, due to some bug (fixed
    in late beta versions) .rc files and preferences files are not compatible with
    the release version.\r\n\r\nsupport--"
  created: '2005-12-13 16:19:30'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>In Win version you can also drag-drop glyphs from FW onto right or left
    neighbors. But I need to check if it is implemented on Mac the same way :-)</em>\r\n\r\nBrilliant!
    Yes, it does work on the Mac version, too. That's a big help. Thanks! \r\n\r\nBut
    also think about the global neighbors idea if you would. Maybe it could just be
    a check box somewhere that makes the current pair persist as you move through
    the glyphs."
  created: '2005-12-13 17:05:08'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "I've got one, and maybe I'm missing something when it comes to \"Customize\"
    but...\r\nIs there a keystroke, or a way to make one, that will open a new metrics
    window?"
  created: '2005-12-13 17:53:00'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: '...and I have a problem with ''Import > EPS''  (AI CS2)'
  created: '2005-12-13 18:04:43'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: "open new metrics window: there is no standard shortcut, but you can easily
    add one using the Customize feature. \r\n\r\nimport EPS: it should be AI8 EPS.
    If it will not read it, send me one."
  created: '2005-12-13 18:23:36'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Working fine with AI8 EPS. Thanks Yuri.
  created: '2005-12-13 18:27:20'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "Yuri -\r\n\r\nOk, got it. It was just a little sticky at first. Thanks"
  created: '2005-12-13 20:39:54'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> you must quit FontLab, alter the text file, \r\n> and start FontLab up
    again\r\n\r\nEntering and leaving Preferences should do the trick as well (if
    you modify the neighbors.txt file externally). Otherwise, just drag-and-drop onto
    the neighbor. \r\n\r\nAdam"
  created: '2005-12-14 00:41:57'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "You left out the part where I said \"it seems that...\" :-)\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the tip, Adam. I'll try that."
  created: '2005-12-14 01:25:20'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> You left out the part where I said \u201Cit seems that\u2026\u201D\r\n\r\n:)
    In my last eight years of using FontLab, I learned that there are things in it
    that were not dreamt of... \r\n\r\nWhen Yuri does his presentations, I always
    watch him carefully. Sometimes, he presses an akward keyboard combination and
    -- ta da -- a top secret feature is revealed that I never knew it existed. \r\n\r\nI
    can't promise it, but I'll try to make sure that Fontlab Ltd. don't have _undocumented_
    features! :) \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-14 02:19:54'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I still keep hoping that if I stumble across the occult key combination I
    will activate the interactive, voice activated 'design my typeface for me'. I
    have not found it yet. Maybe you need to be double jointed.
  created: '2005-12-14 04:59:22'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: 'John: FYI, Letterror just announced a new python plugin, Robointern. It is
    a voice activated "design my typeface for me" feature in .ufo format. You draw
    10 signature glyphs, then say: "make it so, number one" and it spits out the Devanagari
    companion font.'
  created: '2005-12-14 13:31:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Randy,\r\nSounds like a one trick pony to me :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-14 13:56:39'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "This is probably not the correct time and place for this kind of question,
    but could someone explain what has happend to the Zoom feature under the View
    menu? I was using Command-+/- to zoom in and out. I guess I should RTFM some more,
    but I'm not finding it.\r\nDo other users simply not zoom around as much as me,
    or do they have another way of doing it? There's not magnifying glass tool, is
    there?"
  created: '2005-12-14 19:14:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Try Command-spacebar with plus or minus or command -spacebar and drag a rectangle.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-14 20:38:15'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "The z and x keys by themselves allow for zoom in and out, and they function
    while you are using other tools. Easily one of the best features of FontLab, and
    it has been around forever.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2005-12-14 20:49:51'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "I use both.\r\nYou can customize \"Command -\" and \"Command +\" into the
    FLS5."
  created: '2005-12-14 20:58:21'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'Eric, the Command+ wasn''t working on my Mac for some reason. Either way,
    it''s good that I asked because I didn''t know about the Command-Spacebar. Thanks
    a lot. Again, I''m sure this stuff is in the manual... I think I once saw a single
    page with most of the useful FL keyboard shortcuts, but now I can''t recall what
    happened to it. '
  created: '2005-12-14 21:17:19'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: Since shortcuts in FLS are customizable, we don't have single table which
    lists all shortcuts (in FL 4.6 they were listed in separate tech note). Instead,
    Customize dialog box has Print option :-)
  created: '2005-12-14 22:02:13'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: Speaking of Command-Spacebar (another zoom I use all the time) has anyone
    noticed that just pressing Command brings up the Magic Wand? Kind of a problem
    because unless you hit the Command-Spacebar just right, you may end up with the
    Wand. Additionally, after doing the initial zoom-in with Command-Spacebar the
    magnifier will turn into the Wand even though the keys haven't been released yet.
    Is there a way to Customize away the Wand from this key? It's already mapped to
    the 4 key so this seems redundant.
  created: '2005-12-14 22:04:37'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Adam and/or Yuri,\r\n\r\nDo you happen to know when TypeTool will be updated?
    \ Thanks!"
  created: '2005-12-15 07:44:07'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Do you happen to know when TypeTool will be updated?\r\n\r\nWhen it is
    ready ;) \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2005-12-15 09:34:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"When it is ready ;)\"\r\n\r\nHmmmm, that sounds familiar :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-15 11:23:16'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "Is there an update planned for FLS 5 for Mac?\r\nMan, this thing is buggy."
  created: '2005-12-15 17:31:19'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Adam,\r\n\r\nThanks, that means you're working on it?  :-)"
  created: '2005-12-15 18:49:56'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: Selecting a point and right clicking, under various mice and various typefaces,
    will cause FLS 5 to crash each time. Is this happening to anyone else?
  created: '2005-12-15 19:19:40'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Right clicking on a point seems to be working okay for me.
  created: '2005-12-15 19:54:19'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: ">Selecting a point and right clicking, under various mice and various typefaces,
    will cause FLS 5 to crash each time. Is this happening to anyone else?\r\n\r\nTry
    to kill preferences and .rc file (as suggested in one of my messages above)."
  created: '2005-12-15 21:27:14'
- author:
    name: yuri
    picture: 110515
  body: Btw, we are working on 5.0.1 update and hope to have it released before end
    of the year.
  created: '2005-12-15 21:28:05'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "> Try to kill preferences and .rc file (as suggested in one of my messages
    above).\r\n\r\nThis works. Thanks Yuri.\r\n\r\nI've got another one. Is there
    a way to open the font window without it appearing so wide each time? After it's
    open you can right click and select Width but is there a way to have it open as
    in 4.6 (roughly 16 cells)?"
  created: '2005-12-16 16:34:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I've been trying to continue working on an in-progress face using FLS5 Mac.
    I must admit that it is frustrating. It is such a huge change in interface from
    4.6 that it is like a completely new program to learn. Mostly, I just can't find
    things without a search. I bought 4.6 about a year and a half ago and quickly
    learned it well enough out of the box to design a multi-lingual type family in
    5 weights and italic. I am having more trouble with the transition from 4.6 to
    5.0 than I did starting off on 4.6 cold. Is this just my post sedation induced
    stupidity or does any other Mac user who was not a beta tester have problems too?
    \r\n\r\nI would be curious to know from FL developers what rationale they used
    to overhaul the interface?\r\n\r\nA simple example: in 4.6 I could select a point
    and hit delete and the point and the 2 line segments on either side would be deleted.
    In FLS5, when I do the same only the points go away as if I had used the eraser
    tool on them in 4.6. Where is the eraser tool? How do I now delete line segments?
    Why is this better?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-16 17:05:34'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: "I'm having a tough time too, but I'm hanging in there... mostly.\r\nI'v been
    in FLS5 for a few hours each day all week before I get frustrated and switch back
    to 4.6. \r\n\r\nAside from the giant font window I mentioned above, the layers
    are bugging me. If I copy something from the outline layer, switch to the mask
    and hit paste I get nothing. You have to click on the actual glyph window that's
    now the layer. Yikes. Same goes for vice versa.\r\n\r\nAdditionally, I swear some
    key strokes have to be hit twice before they work. Simple things like Select All.
    All this said, I'm still hanging in there, mostly..."
  created: '2005-12-16 17:17:57'
- author:
    name: hubertjocham
    picture: 109447
  body: "Hello Chris,\r\nyou can go back to the old delete function in the preferences/Glyph
    window/advanced/edit/delete command breaks conture. I could not live without it.
    Do you know where the arrows are to go to next and previous characters?\r\nHubert"
  created: '2005-12-16 19:05:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Do you know where the arrows are to go to next and previous characters?\"\r\n\r\nNope,
    and I don't know where the \"font info\" button is either.\r\n\r\nThanks for the
    deletion tip you found buried 5 levels deep in preferences. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-16 19:47:39'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Font Info button -- click into the little button top-right of the Glyph Window
    (right above the vertical scrollbar), then the Glyph Window's toolbar looks like
    in FL4.6. (I find the new bottom toolbar more logical though. I don't know the
    shortcut, but this may be another option to access it.)\r\n\r\nSame for the Metrics/Kerning
    Panel -- there's everything to \"simulate\" the FL4.6 interface. E.g. try the
    three buttons to the right of this window's top toolbar.\r\n\r\nIt's worth consulting
    the manual. It may have some pages more, but is better than the former one. Also,
    it has very useful technical background information, like the information on unicode
    or recommendations for naming fonts, even many links to specifications.\r\n\r\nIt
    took me quite a while to get accustomed to FLS5 too. Moreover, I used it first
    on a WinXP PC -- and the last Windows I touched was 3.1. That was rather horrific
    at first.\r\nHowever, once you got it, you would not want to return to FL4.6,
    just as I never dreamed of going back from FL4.6 to Fontographer, or from OS X
    to OS 9, or from InDesign to PageMaker ... It's different worlds.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2005-12-16 20:44:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Karsten, I'll try to persevere. It is just hard to take the productivity
    drop :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: I never dreamed of going back to Quark either
    :-)"
  created: '2005-12-16 21:03:02'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Adam Twardoch referred to this PDF in another thread:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.twardoch.com/download/unicode2005_fontlab5.pdf\">http://www.twardoch.com/download/unicode2005_fontlab5.pdf</a>\r\nAside
    from information in condensed form, p17 shows Lucas de Groot's one-image manual
    for the Metrics/Kerning Panel. Very useful.\r\n\r\nAbout kerning in FLS5, see
    Adam Twardoch's posts to this recent thread:\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/16413\">http://typophile.com/node/16413</a>\r\nEspecially
    the description of three kerning modes -- search for \"there are three kerning
    modes\".\r\n\r\nFor those who use it, this is about installing RoboFab with FLS5
    Mac:\r\n<a href=\"http://just.letterror.com/ltrwiki/RoboFab_2fFontLabStudio5?\">http://just.letterror.com/ltrwiki/RoboFab_2fFontLabStudio5?</a>\r\n\r\nOh
    yes, it is dangerous to update anything if you have to finish something in time.\r\nBut
    it seems that both versions can be installed at the same time (I hope I don't
    tell nonsense), so you can draw and finish a job in FL4.6, and play with FLS5
    at night or use it for generating fonts which is much easier than with FL4.6 --
    and by the way find that FLS5 is much better.  :)"
  created: '2005-12-16 22:48:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Karsten,\r\nTHANK YOU! You addressed many of my most urgent concerns in your
    last 2 posts! I am sure others will also benefit from your taking the time to
    post. \r\n\r\nYou are a true gentleman and a scholar:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-16 23:13:03'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Do you know where the arrows are to go to next and previous characters?</em>\r\n\r\ncomma
    and period (i believe)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-16 23:33:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"comma and period (i believe)\"\r\n\r\nCurious choice.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-16 23:37:46'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: well if you hold shift down, you get < and > respectively. >^P
  created: '2005-12-16 23:42:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"well if you hold shift down, you get < and > respectively. >^P\"\r\n\r\nDoh!
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-16 23:46:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\n\r\nI think what hubertjocham  and I were really refering to is
    the icon \"Next/Previous\" arrow iconbs that used to be in the upper left corner
    (not the keyboard command).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-16 23:49:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: aha. you'll find those buried in preferences too. under customize> commands,
    you'll see the arrows in a box to the right. drag them from there to your toolbar.
    i think i had to do that for a couple things as well, including the magic wand...
  created: '2005-12-16 23:54:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess I am wondering about the decision making as to what was to be default
    and what was to be banished to the bowels of preferences. I know I am not the
    model user so I don't expect FL5 to be designed for me.  I just wonder what prompted
    removal of certain things. I would have welcomed removing the typical \" cut copy
    paste print save\" icons which I never use since keyboard commands for all Mac
    programs cover the same turf.\r\nI think the default settings should present what
    was there before with everything open so you can see it.  The Metrics window should
    come default with the table of metrics above it open.  Why the text entering field
    was moved below and right and made smaller makes no sense to me.\r\n\r\nOh well,
    I'll just have to forget everything I learned in 4.6 last year and start over
    as if I never touched the program.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-17 00:40:46'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: you want the text up top? hit the button at the top right of the text field
    that looks like a grey & white window. although i like it on bottom and i like
    all the new features available with this configuration.
  created: '2005-12-17 01:37:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Paul!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-17 03:50:25'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: ">Do you know where the arrows are to go to next and previous characters?\r\n\r\nOn
    Mac OSX, use the scroll wheel with the command key to go back and forth on characters.
    Really efficient."
  created: '2005-12-20 14:21:25'
date: '2005-12-12 22:29:21'
title: '12 products in 12 months of 2005: FontLab Studio 5 for Mac OS X released'

---
