---
author:
  name: ebensorkin
  picture: 109987
body: "Does anybody think it would be a good idea to deleop a 'locl' or 'ssxx' feature
  for 'dutch stress' the practice of putting acutes over letters & numbers. From what
  I have read on typophile this practice is a bit like using an italic. \r\n\r\nActually
  I have a bunch of questions about this:\r\n\r\nIs it done in these countties too?
  Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finnland. Anywhere else? \r\n\r\nDo you know when the practice
  began?\r\n\r\nWhat impact if any do you think it should have on the design/coding
  of Opentype fonts? \r\n\r\nI think with TT & PS a typographer had to manually kern
  them into place. Is that right? Or how did/does it work?\r\n\r\nDo you think Unicode
  should be expanded to allow these glyphs? From what I have read most people think
  this kind of thing should be done in Open type by using the 'ccmp' feature. \r\n\r\nCan
  anybody expand on my very limited understanding of use?  For instance, would a good
  dutch typgrapher choose italics in one case over what I am calling dutch stress
  in another? When & Why? What would the choice mean - if anything? Could he use both
  italics & dutch stress? If so, what would that mean? \r\n\r\nI have gotten the impression
  from texts that dutch advertising uses acutes that point all over the place. But
  I haven't seen it. I also imagine that for a text face dutch stress acutes should
  create a more unified feeling even if the angles shift to accomodate differences
  in glyph width. But without looking at examples it's all just speculation! So -Are
  there any images on the web?\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\n "
comments:
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Eben, \r\n\r\nthis is indeed a good question which nobody yet solved convincingly.
    The practice of using acute as a stress mark is popular in many languages -- for
    eyample Russian uses it. The most intuitive way of encoding these characters might
    be using the combining acute mark (U+0301), and then using the \"ccmp\" OpenType
    Layout feature to display the glyph properly. However, I don't think it can work
    so well. Putting U+0301 into the text usually confuses text processing application.
    The letter \"a\" with acute is usually treated differently from the plain \"a\",
    because most ortographies threat them as separate letters. But if the acute is
    used to denote stress, the text processing application should \"know\" that for
    the purposes of searching and hyphenation, the marks should be ignored. Unfortunately,
    most text processing applications can't do that. \r\n\r\nHowever, if you design
    an alterate set of glyphs with acutes, name the appropriately (e.g. \"a.ss01\",
    \"b.ss01\" etc.) and map them to the ss01 and salt features, the underlying text
    would not include the acutes, but instead, the user would have to apply formatting
    to the appropriate glyphs (through markup or some menu selections). I believe
    that this would perhaps be a better idea. At least, it would present less problems
    in making the text searchable and hyphenable. \r\n\r\nYou could still add a ccmp
    feature: \r\na uni0301 -> a.ss01\r\netc. \r\n\r\nThis way, you would ensure that
    the stressed letters would appear through both ss01 (without the acutes being
    encoded in the text) and through ccmp (with the acutes in the text). Perhaps this
    solution would be the most universal. \r\n\r\nIn the end, the user will need to
    make the decision: does he want to treat the stress denotation as part of text
    (then the acutes would be keyed in and encoded, and the ccmp would be applied)
    or as formatting (then the user would apply the ss01 feature on a per-glyph basis).
    \r\n\r\nBest, \r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-13 15:51:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If it's used for emphasis, it should be formatting.\r\nAfter all, if one
    considers standard practice, the text is the same in Roman, Italic, and Bold.\r\nTherefore,
    \"dutch stress\" should be a separate font.\r\n\r\nIn fact, I think we're trying
    to cram too much into OpenType fonts. If a font has interesting, unique features,
    the foundry/type designer is quite literally burying them anonymously (down in
    the hierarchy of interface palettes) if they're put into a stylistic set (which
    BTW, a lot of end users still on Quark or CS1 don't have access to). It would
    be better to make a separate font, with an on-point, memorable name, and charge
    for this benefit accordingly."
  created: '2005-12-13 17:19:17'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Nick, \r\n\r\nby \"stress\", Eben does not mean rhetorical emphasis. He means
    the word stress, the difference in pronounciation of the noun \"object\" and the
    verb \"object\". If you put the glyphs with stress marks in a separate font, kerning
    won't work inside of your words, which is not a good thing. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-14 01:08:02'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Thanks Adam! Actually, although I appreciate your confidence in me I was
    starting to compose a new entry to ask about just that kind of thing - use. The
    thing is I have no idea how the Dutch the Russians ror the Danes use this & what
    it means when they do. \r\n\r\nI had started out imagining that the 'stress' might
    be like an italic and that it indicated a chasnge of voice. But I quickly realized
    that was an assumption and quite likely a wrong one. \r\n\r\nThe use you are describing
    \ - based on other things I have found where you commented on this 'dutch stress'
    sounds like the stress marks used for almost phonetic use or at least help in
    pronuciation. It also sounded like it was a kind of extra help for students and
    not a part of standard russian. Not that I know anything about russian! But it
    occurs to me that the meaning & use in dutch might be different & for scandanavians
    - I still don't know if it's just danes who use it. When I have read about dutch
    use it sounds like whole phrases are marked up in this way. I think even numbers
    can be marked. Which makes it sound like an italic or bold treatment. But again,
    I don't have any clarity yet on that point.\r\n\r\nI am still wrapping my mind
    around the Open Type feature set and I see now that I was thinking about sometyhing
    else when I wrote 'ccmp'. I feel pretty silly. I will try to sort myself out better
    & rephrase my question. However before I do I think cultural considerations should
    trump technological ones. Put another way, before I really start to think about
    how ( or if I should ) think about offering this kinds of stress as a feature
    in an Opentype font I had better get clear on what is intended by it's use & how
    it's seen by the cultures that use it. I have have sent out a few emails to folks
    who might be able to help me & if it's okay with them I will quote them here.
    \r\n\r\nAdam, can you expand you comments in this area? \r\n\r\nCan you suggest
    people to ask?"
  created: '2005-12-14 06:17:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Accents are occasionally used even in English to specify pronunciation, e.g.
    in traditional poetical works to assist metre by clearly indicating that a typically
    silent vowel should be pronounced: belov\xE9d. In this case, I would say that
    the accented <em>character</em> is very much part of the text and it should not
    be considered a layout issue. Linguistic stress is an aspect of language, not
    of typographic design, and if it belongs in a text it should not be something
    that can be lost through a change in formatting, e.g. switching to a different
    font."
  created: '2005-12-14 07:58:28'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I agree with you about linguistic stress. But is that what's happening in
    the other cases? It doesn't sound like it to me. Not yet anyway.
  created: '2005-12-14 08:12:31'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "BTW - Gerard Unger wrote back to me & said:\r\n\r\n<cite>Yes, it is a fairly
    common practice, although it is hard to find any rules.\r\nIt is not old fashioned.
    To find out when this practice began, you would\r\nneed to consult a linguistic
    historian.<cite>"
  created: '2005-12-14 08:27:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thanks for the correction, Adam, but I actually understand the concept (although
    I may not have explained myself very well!)\r\n\r\nLet me try again.\r\n\r\nThis
    kind of \"pronounciation\" emphasis is no different than the emphasis that writers
    and editors use when they \"highlight\" a word or phrase in bold, Italic, or caps.
    It is a text decision, made by the writer, which he/she executes by formatting.
    The only difference is that it is a single character or syllable that is being
    emphasized.\r\n\r\nA \"stress font\" should contain every character with an acute
    accent over it.\r\n\r\nTherefore, text set in a stress font would behave ordinarily
    when reset in an ordinary font.\r\n\r\nThe text would be searchable and hyphenatable,
    but you'd have to apply Optical Kerning over the \"cross-font\" pairs.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    it would be easier for writers to select e.g. the \"Minion Stress\" font to stress
    a glyph, rather than to drill down to an OT stylistic set, which is the more likely
    behaviour of typographers.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-14 08:40:04'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "Eben --\r\n\r\nI'm not Dutch (so I'm not an expert on this) but I lived in
    The Netherlands for a year and observed/enjoyed this \"Dutch stress\" as you call
    it. As far as I've seen the extra acute marks will almost always be applied to
    only the vowels of the syllable being stressed (example: n\xE9\xE9, g\xE9\xE9n).
    The only consonant exception that I've seen is the lowercase j in the word jij
    (\"you\") where all three letters might be able to be emphasized, though I don't
    believe there's a unicode value for \"small letter j with acute\" so I'm not sure
    how it would have been applied in text unless if it was done manually. \r\n\r\n--
    Andy"
  created: '2005-12-14 15:42:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Andy, where did you see it used? That is to say what kinds of texts? Or text
    on or in what? What did it mean when it was used? Was it an aid to pronunciation
    or something else?
  created: '2005-12-14 20:03:44'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "Eben --\r\n\r\nI really didn't master learning the language while I was there
    so my Dutch reading diet consisted mostly of newspaper headlines, billboards,
    posters, TV commercials, advertisments/marketing speak -- all of which are the
    kinds of places that I got the feeling it would be normal to throw a couple extra
    acutes above the vowels when necessary.\r\n\r\nI think it might be better to think
    of this feature as being used more in the case where you might set one or two
    words in all caps or if you would underline it for emphasis, like \"NO money down!\"
    or \"that's what HE said.\" But then again, I didn't do a lot of reading of long
    texts, so I'm not sure if it would be acceptable to do this in long passages.\r\n\r\n--
    Andy"
  created: '2005-12-14 21:05:44'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\"Dutch stress\" is as much Dutch-only as \"English weather\" only occurs
    in England. There is nothing mystical about it. The Dutch use the acute over a
    vowel (or two vowels of a diphthong) in homographs: words that are written the
    same way but bearing different meanings, depending on which syllable is stressed.
    Not including the stress mark in such situations would make the word ambiguous,
    e.g. v\xF3\xF3rkomen (occur) vs. voork\xF3men (prevent) or achter\xFA\xEDtgang
    (deterioration) vs. \xE1chteruitgang (back exit). \r\n\r\nRussian uses acute in
    the same way but not in daily writing but only in schoolbooks. In Russian, the
    stress varies heavily so in schoolbooks the stress marks are written out to ease
    the learning process. In normal literature or newspapers, they're not included.
    \r\n\r\nThe phrase \"Dutch stress\" is also used to describe the constant life
    in fear that the dams will break and all Netherlands will be flooded in seconds.
    Or maybe not. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-15 09:32:42'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "I *think* prosody is what is under discussion . . .\r\n\r\nThe mark referred
    to as \u201CDutch Stress\u201D is, I suspect, the ictus, used to denote stress
    in Latin languages. I don\u2019t believe there is any such Unicode character.
    If you are going to do prosody, you minimally need an ictus, a longum (sort of
    a macron), and a breve. The breve is not the same as the accent, and does not
    look the same. I\u2019ve always felt that they go over syllables, but practically
    speaking, you find a letter in the middle of the syllable & put them there.\r\n\r\nModern
    practice has generated all sorts of *symbols* to be used in the display and analysis
    of poetry (for example, in the journal POETICS TODAY). We now have a *reverse
    ictus* and hard & soft syllable marks. None of these is in Unicode, and using
    a different character (acute, grave, macron etc.) seems to me equivalent of using
    the LATIN CAPITAL A for the Greek CAPITAL LETTER ALPHA \u2013 worse really, because
    they don\u2019t even look quite right.\r\n\r\nBut what to do . . ."
  created: '2005-12-15 19:19:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "So Adam you are saying it is used only to distinguish words rather than as
    a way of setting off or emphasize a whole phrase. So the Whole Phrase or Whole
    sentance or Whole Paragraph model is mythic then? It doesn't exist? If so that
    would really change the way you would approach things technically. I got the idea
    that it could be a whole phrase from somewhere - I'll dig it up & post it here.
    Ahhh here it is....\r\n\r\n<cite><strong>peter bilak</strong> : Not only vowels,
    but also some consonants: jacute for example. It indeed is used for stressing
    the word, same like italics. Most often it is used in Advertising and in expressive
    text, not in handwriting, as far as I know. In words like JIJ (you), one could
    put an acute on all characters.<cite>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/2764\r\n\r\nSo
    he is saying word not phrase or sentance. But that is where I got the idea it
    might be like italics. Okay, so I wasn't going completely mad. \r\n\r\nThis is
    from today's (12.15.05) wikipedia which as we all know aught to be taken with
    a grain of salt ( a bit of skepticism) but here is the entry anyway\r\n\r\n<cite>In
    Spanish and Dutch, the acute accent is used to disambiguate certain words which
    would otherwise be homographs. In Spanish, this covers various question word /
    relative pronoun pairs, such as c\xF3mo (interrogative how) & como (non-interrogative
    how), d\xF3nde & donde (where), and some other words such as t\xFA (you) & tu
    (your), \xE9l (he/him) & el (the); in Dutch, this is mainly \xE9\xE9n (one) &
    een (a/an).<cite>\r\n\r\n<cite><strong>In Dutch, the acute accent can also be
    used to emphasize an individual word within a sentence.</strong> For example,
    \"Het is \xF3nze auto, niet die van jullie.\" (\"This is our car, not yours.\")
    In this example, \"\xF3nze\" is merely an emphasized form of \"onze\".<cite>\r\n\r\nInterestingly
    it isn't letters being changed in the example but rather one.\r\n\r\n<cite>In
    Danish, the usage of the acute accent is very similar to the Dutch usage, for
    example \xE9n (one) vs. en (a/an) and f\xF3r (went) and for (for). It can also
    be used for emphasis, especially on the word der (there), ex. \"Der kan ikke v\xE6re
    mange mennesker d\xE9r,\" meaning \"There can't be many people there\" or \"D\xE9r
    skal vi hen\" meaning \"That's where we're going\".<cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>In Norwegian,
    the acute accent is similar to Danish. In Norwegian bokm\xE5l, it is also used
    for the imperative form of verbs ending in -ere, which lose their final e and
    might look like plurals (most often ending in -er) of some noun: kontroll\xE9r
    is the imperative form of \"to control\", kontroller is the noun \"controls\".
    The simple past of the (disused) verb \xE5 fare, \"to travel\", is f\xF3r, to
    distinguish it from for (\"for\" as in English).<cite> \r\n\r\n<cite>Many words
    of French origin retain an acute accent, such as all\xE9, kaf\xE9, id\xE9, komit\xE9,
    diskr\xE9. Popular usage can be sketchy and often neglects the accent, and there
    exists a certain degree of interchangeability with the grave accent.<cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>In
    Swedish, the acute accent used only for the letter e, mostly in words of French
    origin and in some names. It is used both to indicate a change in vowel quantity
    as well as quality and that the stress should be on this, normally unstressed,
    syllable. Examples include caf\xE9 (\"caf\xE9\") and resum\xE9 (\"resum\xE9\",
    noun). There are two pairs of homographs that are differentiated only by the accent:
    arm\xE9 (\"army\") versus arme (\"poor; pitiful\", masculine declination) and
    id\xE9 (\"idea\") versus ide (\"winter quarters\").<cite>"
  created: '2005-12-15 22:31:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eben, this topic greatly interests me (partly because I dislike italics)
    but to be honest I've had trouble finding good examples of actual use. And that
    makes me suspect that some -too many- people would simply not know what's going
    on when they encounter it. For example, is it taught in school in the Netherlands?\r\n\r\n>
    If it\u2019s used for emphasis, it should be formatting.\r\n\r\nNot if it's part
    of the language - like it is with Armenian. And as has been pointed out, some
    languages like Spanish actually require it to be fully intelligible. Here's a
    passage from Jorge de Buen: \"V\xE9ase el caso de estas tres palabras: c\xE1ntara,
    cantara, cantar\xE1. Significan cosas diferentes y la tilde es la distinci\xF3n.\"\r\n\r\nBTW,
    the case with English seems different, since it's about pronouncing a letter that
    would otherwise be silent, not emphasis.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-15 22:48:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think it's interesting too - I think it may turn out that there isn't any
    significal cultural use to setting a phrase using acute & that it really is just
    the odd word or oven letter here or there. Still, what Peter wrote intrigues me
    & I think got the idea that phrases and sentences could be set somewhere... I
    think it wasn't just Peter. But then again I have not been able to find examples
    online or any way to confirm it. So maybe I had better just get used to the idea
    being really no big deal. I am hoping some addition dutch type maven come cruiosing
    through & teach us a bit more.\r\n\r\nAnd as always, thanks again Adam for giving
    us such great examples and such useful and complete info!\r\n\r\n> is it taught
    in school in the Netherlands\r\n\r\nMore & more I suspect it is a pop/ad culture
    thing. And not just because of what Andy said. If so it would (maybe) make a text
    face less of an appropriate place for a 'acute stress' OT feature, and a Display
    face more of one. But basically it seems to me that we still don't have quite
    enough info yet.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-16 02:56:44'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Peter wrote to me to say that the only constanant that uses the acute in dutch
    is 'j' - so I over-read into his statement. If it is just some volels & the odd
    j there is no point in making a feature I think. Oh well, I was hoping I had come
    across up something wacky & fun. Cheers everybody & thanks again.
  created: '2006-01-03 03:44:13'
- author:
    name: kennmunk
    picture: 110488
  body: "Danes do use Dutch stress. Not very often, though and there are other ways
    around it:\r\n\"\xE9n\" instead of \"en\" (meaning \"one\") is used to emphasise
    the you mean \"ONLY one, nor more, no less\".\r\n\"\xE9n\" can also be written
    as \"een\" (which actually looks a bit Dutch). I think \"een\" is the older way
    of writing this, but both work."
  created: '2006-01-03 10:21:53'
- author:
    name: Rene Verkaart
    picture: 110212
  body: "Some things I know about the usage of accents in the Dutch language.\r\n\r\nThe
    accents are mainly used to emphasize the sound of words. Example: Dit is \xF3nze
    website / This is o\xFAr website.\r\nWe usually don't use acutes with caps. You
    will not see words like '\xC9\xE9n (meaning '1'), but 'E\xE9n'. \r\nWe don't use
    acute on numbers. But because we write the numbers 1-10 as words, we write (1)
    as \xE9\xE9n. This because we have a word 'een' (meaning 'a'). \r\nMost accents
    we use are on french words. Damn them. :D  All french words that are beeing taken
    over in the dutch language loose their accents. Only in case of pronounciation
    the accents might be kept.\r\n\r\nBecause of technical limitations the second
    accent in the word 'jij' can't be used. Write this word as 'j\xEDj'. \r\n\r\nWhat
    we d\xF3 use more often is the dieresis for words like 'offici\xEBle' (meaning
    'official'), or 'ski\xEBn' (meaning 'skiing'). We do this in two cases:\r\n1  to
    read the vowels seperate from eachother. We write 're\xFCnie' because we read
    and pronounce 're-unie'\r\n2  to verbalise the connection of multiple words (sorry,
    don't know the english word for this). Single verb 'olie' becomes 'oli\xEBn'.
    'Financie' becomes 'financi\xEBn'.\r\n\r\nPerhaps these pages might help you out.
    I tried to look for english pages, but didn't find any. Perhaps you can decypher
    it when you read it:\r\nhttp://www.mijnwoordenboek.nl/spelling-accent.php\r\nhttp://woordenlijst.org/leidraad/4/1/\r\nhttp://woordenlijst.org/leidraad/5/1/\r\nhttp://home.hccnet.nl/c.phielix/\r\nhttp://home.hccnet.nl/c.phielix/#accenttekens\r\n\r\nAnd
    yes Adam, Dutch stress \xEDs about the fear of our dams breaking. We d\xEDd have
    that some years ago. You are s\xF3 right. ;-)\r\n\r\nI hope this helps.\r\n\r\nBest
    regards,\r\n\xAEen\xE9\r\n\r\n*** www.characters.nl  { Typography to express yourself
    } ***"
  created: '2006-01-03 12:40:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There appears to be a difference between prosody, involving a range of marks,
    and simple stress emphasis, where only one kind of mark is required (although
    some languages use the acute, others the dieresis).\r\n\r\nFor simple stress emphasis,
    I wonder why the underscore is not used: it is a device which is supported at
    the word-processing level of the typographic production flow, font-independent.
    The only downside is that it's a bit messy with descenders, but that perception
    is probably a residual metal-type aesthetic, and not relevant with digital type."
  created: '2006-01-03 16:54:12'
- author:
    name: kennmunk
    picture: 110488
  body: "I think the accents are more elegant than underscore would be. \r\nOne explanation
    for the acute could be that it makes the character lean forward a bit, like a
    small italic element. \r\njust a thought. \r\n"
  created: '2006-01-03 18:59:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There are indeed various forms of emphasis, and expressing the\r\nvariety
    visually would surely help (most of the time). To me\r\nwe really haven't thought
    enough about this issue, and tend\r\nto brute-force everything with italics.\r\n\r\nUnderscore:
    besides the clash with descenders it's\r\ntoo intrusive in terms of parafoveal
    distraction.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-03 19:05:30'
- author:
    name: guidoferreyra
  body: "Hi everyone. \r\nI'm trying to create the stressed IJ. Looking on the internet
    I've found how the Glyphs App people suggest to do it using locl feature http://www.glyphsapp.com/tutorials/localize-your-font-accented-dutch-ij\r\nThe
    feature works well, but when I insert them from the glyphs panel on Adobe Apps
    and I change between family weights they don't change, the behavior is the same
    when you change the font and some glyphs are missing on the new selected font.\r\n\r\nAny
    help?\r\n\r\nBest regards"
  created: '2014-11-01 22:19:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Have you set the language of the text to Dutch? If not, you can manually
    insert the glyph, but I won\u2019t be surprised if it does not work reliably."
  children:
  - author:
      name: guidoferreyra
    body: "Hi Thomas.\r\nWhen the language is activated all works fine, but I was
      wondering what happens if the user don't activate language and insert the glyph
      via panel and later change between weights. \r\nThe curious thing is some other
      locl glyphs like ckreska (and the others) work fine even with language not set.
      In the Glyphs panel they are marked with the unicode of the cacute + feature.
      Stressed ij don't figure attached to any unicode + feature. See image.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/B1fUz6FIEAAa1jM_4934.png]\r\n\r\n
      Sorry for my bad english. Thanks in advance."
    created: '2014-11-05 15:40:09'
  created: '2014-11-03 05:32:51'
date: '2005-12-13 01:08:10'
title: Opentype feature for 'stress' with acute - in Dutch & maybe Danish

---
