---
author:
  name: ishamid
  picture: 111213
body: "Hi all,\r\n\r\nThis is my first message to this forum. I look forward to getting
  to know this community!\r\n \r\n[[OpenType]] fonts are all the rage today. Are there
  any critiqes of the format, or discussions of its limitations? \r\n \r\nHow many
  typesetting applications can actually take full advantage of opentype fonts?\r\n
  \r\nWhat are the chances that OpenType (at least some of its advanced features)
  will go the way of [[MultipleMaster]] fonts?\r\n\r\nContext: I am working on a Classical
  Arabic-script typesetting system with very high-quality typographical standards.
  I primariliy use [[TeX]] and [[ConTeXt]].\r\n\r\nBest to all\r\nIdris"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Welcome to Typophile Idris.\r\nAt the moment, only professional design programs
    support most of the opentype features. This covers the high end users tools fairly
    well but the typical word processor user will have a bit longer to wait. Depending
    on how much you believe the dates developers give you, somewhere around a year
    or so should bring OTF to the main stream.\r\nOpentype will, in my opinion be
    around much longer than MM. If it goes away, I am sure it will be supported in
    whatever comes after.\r\nOpentype does such a much better job than TT or Type
    1 in supporting large character sets that it is hard to resist.  This is a major
    boon to non-Latin scripts which need full coverage to be workable. The contextual
    options and attention to diacritics help even more. \r\n\r\nYou can search here,
    on the Microsoft site, and the Adobe site for many discussions on Opentype features
    and problems.\r\n\r\nI hope you will continue to share your views and findings
    here in the Typophile community.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Laurie7475
    body: Hello ChrisL, I'm new here. I was wondering if you would be able to describe
      the terms you are using. I've heard of Multiple Master Fonts but I'm not sure
      what they are and how they fit in the scheme of things. Same senario for open
      face fonts. I new to the tech side of design. Thanks, Laurie7475.
    created: '2006-01-10 03:34:37'
  created: '2005-12-16 23:03:30'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello! Some first links: \r\n\r\nDespite its title, the thread <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/16695\">http://typophile.com/node/16695</a>
    is about the OpenType font format and differences between CFF vs TT flavored OTFs.\r\n\r\nIt
    the above thread, there is also reference to <a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography\">http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography</a>\r\nwhere
    you can find three articles:\r\n \r\n\"Phasing out PostScript Type 1 fonts\" at
    <a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2005/10/phasing_out_typ.html\">http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2005/10/phasing_out_typ.html</a>,\r\n\r\n\"Increased
    expectations & OT font glyph sets\" at <a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2005/10/increased_expec_1.html\">http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2005/10/increased_expec_1.html</a>
    \ \r\n\r\n\"Great Customer Expectations for OpenType\" at <a href=\"http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2005/11/great_expectati.html\">http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2005/11/great_expectati.html</a>.\r\n\r\nThese,
    including subsequent discussions, cover many aspects like phasing out of PS T1
    and MM, or (meager) support of OTF by typesetting applications.\r\n\r\nBest wishes,
    Karsten."
  created: '2005-12-16 23:14:49'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Someone has pointed out (I can't remember who) that OpenType is already much
    more successful than Multiple Masters ever was. There were only a small number
    of MM fonts built, mostly by Adobe, and you needed ATM to use them. \r\n\r\nThere
    are already thousands of OT fonts on the market by multiple vendors and they have
    OS-level support on both Windows and Mac (and Linux too I think). Application
    support is good (mostly Adobe for advanced typographic support, Microsoft for
    non-Roman script support) and getting better--the next version of Quark will rival
    the support you see in Adobe's offerings. Add to this the fact that there is one
    format for all platforms, something that was never true of earlier formats. I
    can't imagine how OpenType will do anything but become more widely embraced, given
    all it's advantages and support by the major OS/application players. \r\n\r\nThis
    was never true of MM, even though it was pretty neat."
  created: '2005-12-17 01:14:41'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: for more insight on file types (including OpenType and the different [[flavor|flavors]]
    of OpenType fonts) see this thread called <a href="http://typophile.com/node/16695">TrueType
    versus PostScript</a>.
  created: '2005-12-17 01:47:04'
- author:
    name: ishamid
    picture: 111213
  body: "Thank you all for your very valuable comments. Someone also forwarded me
    the following:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.opentype.com/html/opentype.aspx\r\n\r\nIt has
    some charts illustrating the degree of OpenType support in various applications...\r\n\r\nWas
    disappointed to learn (from other references) that even InDesign is quite limited
    in its support of multilingual otf's...\r\n\r\nBest\r\nIdris"
  created: '2005-12-17 18:40:19'
- author:
    name: ishamid
    picture: 111213
  body: accidental post-)
  created: '2005-12-17 18:41:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>This is my own principal critique of OpenType, and it is not a critique
    of the font format but of OpenType Layout. A lot of the OTL features were defined
    by Adobe and Microsoft long before either company implemented support for them
    in any products, and I don't think we've been left with the best set of features
    we could have had. Of course, it is possible to define new features, but what
    already exists has determined application functionality and it would now be difficult
    to revise the whole model.</em>\r\n\r\nAt the moment we have some features that
    are identified as being on by default but possible to turn off (e.g. liga), some
    features that are off by default but possible to turn on (e.g. dlig), and some
    features that are on by default and impossible to turn off (e.g. rlig). The distinction
    between standard and discretionary ligatures is a useful one, but I don't think
    that it is useful to have a feature level distinction between ligatures that are
    always on and ligatures that are on by default but can be turned off; that is,
    I do not think this is a distinction that requires two separate features. I also
    find myself longing for an equivalent of the 'required' state of rlig lookups
    for other features. So I think it would be better for there to be a flag in the
    lookup that determines whether particular lookups within a feature, e.g. liga,
    are required or not, i.e. can be switched off or not. This would be a basic aspect
    of the GSUB and GPOS lookup types, rather than something that requires multiple
    features, and a single feature could include both required and non-required lookups.
    Some features, such as ccmp and locl, might still be presumed by applications
    and engines to be required, and no UI would be provided to turn them off, but
    it would be possible to include some required lookups within the features that
    users can toggle. So, for example, rather than splitting your Arabic ligatures
    between the rlig and liga features, you would put them all in a single feature
    and set the appropriate flags for individual lookups. I'm working on a project
    at the moment in which it would be useful to be able to mix required and non-required
    lookups in the 'calt' feature, because there are some cross-stylistic-set glyph
    combinations that could occur that are simply incorrect, ugly and colliding. I
    should be able to ensure that these do not occur while still allowing the user
    to turn off contextual alternates if this does not result in such combinations.\r\n\r\nAs
    to whether OpenType will go the way of Multiple Master, no, I don't think so.
    But I think some poorly conceived OTL features will never be implemented, and
    may be formally deprecated, e.g. the 'rand' feature."
  created: '2005-12-17 19:40:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It has some charts illustrating the degree of OpenType support in various
    applications\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nNot very accurate or uptodate. There is no mention
    of Adobe's ME or J products, which have much advanced multilingual support. The
    chart says the multilingual support in Word on Windows is limited to TTFs, but
    I have made CFF complex script fonts (Arabic, Adobe and Thai) that work fine in
    MS Office 2003 on Windows."
  created: '2005-12-17 19:43:41'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nI agree with you that set of features registered in OpenType
    spec is not ideal. I also agree that feature descriptions are confusing sometimes
    because they are largely a mix of requirements/recommendations/hints for app/font
    devlopers without clear indication of what is what.  \r\n\r\nBut I do not agree
    with your method of solving inconsistencies in feature set by introducing new
    concept of required and not-required lookups within a single feature. Not because
    it will require changing all implementations \r\nof OpenType layout in the world
    :). It is not actually many features that will require both required and not-required
    lookups. 'liga', 'calt', 'kern' - what else? I do not see it is worth to introduce
    new concept in OpenType layout format. This concept may be very confusing and
    hard to define behavior for - basically, for the same reasons why we do not recommend
    using required feature now.\r\n\r\nYour approach may be useful in tools, though.
    Particular tool may provide a feature that will assign \"required\" lookups from
    one feature tag to some other (if tool is smart about relations between features).
    But it is not about OpenType layout specification.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-19 20:29:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "OT is lacking or deficient in the following:\r\n1. It is missing variations,
    MM or ANY KIND. All styles are descrete outlines and that's just so 1980's. Size
    axis are cut off, and resolution axis, sheesh, they don't even know what you're
    talking about.\r\n2. OT relies on the old TT composite method, which combines
    bitmaps after they have been rendered to bits, (too late for combinatorial hints.).\r\n3.
    OT as John Points out, the features are limited by Adobe's and MS's desire/footprint.
    But the real bummer is that the UI hooks to these features are \"hardwired\" into
    app(s), so the end of spreadable creativity in this area comes up pretty fast.
    I.E. An update is required so that the feature tables include the UI names of
    features, so they can be passed directly thru apps. to users.\r\n4. There are
    no options for encrypting anything, so all of your work goes public. when you
    publish it.\r\n5. And the worst thing about OT? The format is privately held by
    companies who are overwhealmingly not type founders so it's inevitable that the
    format would be cast with second-rate concepts, by inexpert technocrats, into
    very solid concrete. "
  created: '2005-12-21 13:28:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n>The format is privately held by companies who are... \r\n\r\nNot for
    long - http://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=5033"
  created: '2005-12-21 14:49:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Not for long - http://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=5033\"\r\n\r\nOh
    good, one down (mylist), 4 to go. But, Merry Christmas! here's your font standard(s!)
    for the next XX years, we know it's incomplete, (made so by the inability of technocrats
    to maintain momentum in type technology), but if you want a better one you'll
    need to wait for some.gov/ubertoolmaker.com to fix it? Or is someone gonna have
    to start from scratch and sue their way to completion of a new format? Either
    way, the (my) \"western\" notion of continual progress is not being served. If
    Anyone Else who has benefited from the 1984-92 burst of typographic technology
    is \"man\" enough to continue that progress on the $100's of millions earned from
    the incorporation of technology others invented and developed to fruition, please
    \  stand   up. (grimface)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-25 12:44:54'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: What do people here think of SIL's <a href="http://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&cat_id=RenderingGraphite">Graphite</a>?
    It appears to be especially strong for complex scripts, but so far doesn't seem
    to have caught on much.
  children:
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "<em>What do people here think of SIL\u2019s Graphite?</em>\r\n\r\nAn interesting
      approach. I prefer something like what we do in the TeX/Omega/Aleph world: filters
      which select font features and which the user loads at will. I have been playing
      with Arabic Typesetting (arabtype.ttf: MSOffice 2003 proofing tools or Windows
      Vista) and, in MSWord at least, the features are set in stone. (Caveat: I don't
      use Word for typesetting; maybe there is a way to select/change desired font
      features that I could not find.)\r\n\r\nFor example:\r\n\r\ni. Turn ligatures
      on/off;\r\n\r\nii. Have a choice of ligature sets. For example, at small point
      sizes certain ligatures don't work well. The typesetter should be able to choose
      which ligature set works best for the task at hand.\r\n\r\niii. Turn vowelization
      on/off, perhaps even control diacritic-vowel positioning;\r\n\r\niv. Alternate
      character control;\r\n\r\nOther features, like character substitution based
      on interword spacing within a paragraph, require a better typesetting engine,
      like TeX or InDesign (which uses TeX's h&j algorithm, but I have no idea if
      this feature is available in InDesign; have not yet had the opportunity to use
      that program).***\r\n\r\nTo summarize: For advanced typography and typesetting
      of complex scripts, opentype alone will not do (from what I have learned so
      far). A postprocessor engine that gives the user more control over font features
      in a variety of contexts is needed. The font format itself should provide \"hooks\"
      (like anchor points for a given feature in otf) from which the postprocessor
      then creates a myriad of typographic possibilities. \r\n\r\nHappy Holidays\r\nIdris\r\n\r\n***
      I have noticed that Donald Knuth is rarely given the credit deserved for the
      h&j algorithm. Even Bringhurst (e.g., p.191) seems to go out of his way to avoid
      mentioning TeX..."
    children:
    - author:
        name: ishamid
        picture: 111213
      body: "PS\r\n\r\nI was pleasantly surprised to see that arabtype.ttf apparently
        works in OpenOffice2.0, even the cursive attachment features!"
      created: '2005-12-25 20:21:34'
    created: '2005-12-25 19:58:31'
  created: '2005-12-25 16:07:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I have been playing with Arabic Typesetting (arabtype.ttf: MSOffice 2003
    proofing tools or Windows Vista) and, in MSWord at least, the features are set
    in stone.</em>\r\n\r\nTo be fair, this is a limitation of Word, not of the font
    format. There is a good deal more feature flexibility and UI options in the Middle
    East version of Adobe InDesign, but no support for the <curs> attachment feature.
    Arabic typography support is currently caught between the varying priorities of
    the application developers, but this should be resolved over the next couple of
    years."
  created: '2005-12-27 07:41:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'By the way, Idris, this may be of interest to you: www.kitabat.org'
  created: '2005-12-27 07:42:26'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I think many (though not all) of the criticisms of OpenType made here are
    valid and reasonable. However, there are a couple of things worth keeping in mind:\r\n\r\nA)
    Even if it's imperfect, OpenType is a huge advance over plain old Type 1 and TrueType.\r\n\r\nB)
    It's a huge amount of work to develop a font format, and a font format needs support
    from OS and application developers. The only reasonable alternative to having
    OS and app developers do it themselves is a consortium or standards body - which
    is where OpenType is moving anyway. Font developers can't do it by themselves.\r\n\r\nC)
    It's also a huge amount of work to do all the support infrastructure for a font
    format, especially the layout stuff in apps/OSes, the tools, and so forth. This
    infrastructure stuff is like a huge ship - it turns very slowly when it needs
    to make a course correction. This means that any new format takes years to get
    everything in place and iron out the kinks and bugs in the support.\r\n   TrueType
    had a slightly rough start back in the early 90s, and that tainted it for over
    a decade in the eyes of the professional publishing industry. Type 1 MM never
    got wide application support (I'm the one who pointed out that we had more active
    OpenType support in applications before shipping any fonts than we had for MM
    when we stopped making new ones). OpenType has had a fine start, but it's taken
    quite a few years to get to where we are now, and we're still not quite \"there\"
    yet - though we're close.\r\n\r\nSo, I think that all of these factors mean that
    the costs and difficulty of trying to change directions to \"something else\"
    are pretty large. Is it worth waiting another 5-10 years, and scrapping and re-doing
    the existing infrastructure investment?\r\n\r\nComments on a few specific things:\r\n\r\n>
    1. It is missing variations, MM or ANY KIND. All styles are descrete outlines
    and that\u2019s just so 1980\u2019s. Size axis are cut off, and resolution axis,
    sheesh, they don\u2019t even know what you\u2019re talking about.\r\n\r\nYes.
    Unfortunately, our experience with MMs was that applications were not very interested,
    and users did not easily \"get it.\" Of course, one could put this down to insufficient
    evangelism (my own explanation of it).\r\n\r\n> 3. OT as John Points out, the
    features are limited by Adobe\u2019s and MS\u2019s desire/footprint.\r\n\r\nWell,
    although the existing spec has accepted a number of proposals from other parties,
    it's now becoming an open standard so this won't be true in the future, if it
    ever was.\r\n\r\n> But the real bummer is that the UI hooks to these features
    are \u201Chardwired\u201D into app(s), so the end of spreadable creativity in
    this area comes up pretty fast. I.E. An update is required so that the feature
    tables include the UI names of features, so they can be passed directly thru apps.
    to users.\r\n\r\nIn a global environment, the choice is one between having the
    feature names hardwired into the applications, or saying that the font developers
    are responsible for translating the feature names into all possible languages.
    If you come up with a new feature, are you up for translating its name into every
    single language supported in the Mac and Windows UIs? I know I'm not....\r\n\r\n>
    4. There are no options for encrypting anything, so all of your work goes public.
    when you publish it.\r\n\r\nIt's possible to stick an encryption mechanism on
    top of any font format, including OpenType. I know that some Asian font developers
    have used PACE technology (http://www.paceap.com) to do encrypted OpenType fonts
    on Mac OS. Not sure if their Windows stuff will do fonts as well, could be.\r\n\r\nThat
    being said, I think that encrypted fonts that are tied to a user's computer are
    a bad idea for a whole bunch of reasons. But that's another topic.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-12-27 21:33:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">the font developers are responsible for translating the feature names into
    all possible languages.\r\n\r\nIt would be nice if the OpenType format supported
    \"developer's naming\" for stylistic alternates, which would also be supported
    by layout apps. Give developers the choice to translate their feature names or
    not.\r\n\r\nFailing that, developers can always do a special font for a special
    feature. For instance, \"Caslon Historic\" could implement historical forms as
    an always-on contextual alternate; the feature is a legitimate OT feature, but
    is not AFAIK supported by any layout apps.\r\n\r\nIn fact, the OT feature tag
    definition of Contextual Alternate is somewhat one-dimensional (something about
    scripts) for what its actual capabilities are. "
  created: '2005-12-27 21:55:39'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"If you come up with a new feature, are you up for translating its name
    into every single language supported in the Mac and Windows UIs?\"\r\n\r\nApparent
    Reasoning: \"if Adobe Doesn't want to do it, (translate features into UMPTEEN
    languages), then why would anyone want to do anything at all about the issue?\"
    Answer, they wouldn't, I wouldn't. I'd call it \"Cap Figures\", it'd pass through
    the suddenly genius app, and the user would see it \"Cap Figures\". . . I'm not
    trying to please the whole world, just a few endowed customers. The rest of the
    wolrd would never even need to know that Adobe was doing the right thing.\r\n\r\n\"That
    being said, I think that encrypted fonts that are tied to a user\u2019s computer
    are a bad idea for a whole bunch of reasons\"\r\n\r\nReasoning: \"The only way
    to implement encryption will make all customers unhappy.\" Adobe did it that way,
    released encrypted fonts as Retail Products...but that does not mean Encrypted
    fonts do not have a huge audience of customers who simply do not want their fonts
    wandering off with every change of Art Director. And, NO ONE is holding a gun
    to either the founders or the buyers head to make or use Encrypted fonts. It is
    called a choice...heard of that have you? Only the people who wanted it would
    ever need to know it existed...\r\n\r\nProblem: MS, Adobe, and Apple seem unable
    to see type in the Bigger Picture. \r\nA technical plateau, now, 14 years old,
    is not a good thing. \r\n\r\n\"Is it worth waiting another 5-10 years, and scrapping
    and re-doing the existing infrastructure investment?\"\r\n\r\nALL of crit points
    I made are font format issues in the hands of OS font management software. Apps,
    would need to make zero changes, or just erase code and turn it over to the right
    authority, the OS...That has been the No.1 issue from DAY ! of OpenType, pka TT
    Open. Adobe has no OS, so it wanders back and forth. Apple and MS could not work
    out a way to share what they share, and MS STILL doesn't have OT implemented at
    OS level, despire warnings that implementing App by App for \"competitive reasons\"
    was just plain bone headed, YOU HEAR ME SHAMEN? ;)\r\n\r\nAnd variations, well,
    I guess that's just \"too hard,\" it's much easier to toss a thousand fonts into
    a menu and let the user swim, or sink.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-29 20:53:35'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'dream format: multimaster opentype fonts.'
  created: '2006-01-01 17:18:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: hmmm i kinda like that i just called [[multiple master]] <em>multimaster</em>,
    heh.
  created: '2006-01-01 17:26:55'
- author:
    name: ishamid
    picture: 111213
  body: "<em>dream format: multi[ple]master opentype fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nI was a bit
    disheartened by something Erik Blokland communicated to me:\r\n\r\n<em>MM in itself
    can do a lot, but only when administered by skilled Adobe engineers. In FontLab
    the highest goals are much more mundane.</em>\r\n\r\nCould one of you explain
    this in more detail?\r\n\r\nHappy New Year"
  created: '2006-01-01 18:05:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Erik is likely referring to the intermediate masters technology employed
    by Adobe for a small number of their later MM families (Adobe Jenson and Kepler,
    I believe, but I''m not sure about others). David Lemon at Adobe described to
    me their attempt to model the Kepler design space: it sounded like a cross between
    Frick and Watson''s famous DNA model and a Kalder mobile, with sixteen primary
    masters and intermediate masters between some of them. FontLab only supports primary
    master interpolation (but as a design tool it also supports extrapolation, thanks
    to Adam Twardoch, which is a nice feature that MM didn''t have).'
  created: '2006-01-01 20:57:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: MM are Junk, were junk and will always be junk, next to 64 potential axis,
    64 potential intermediates per axis, of TT variations. AND! the ease of development
    (for normal everyday designers) that were presented by variations technology in
    combination with Mutator and Fog...was simple as pi. Anyone who ever made a TT
    variation and MM font knows what I'm talking about. Everyone else is in le dark.
    MM was, for those of us who did both, like trying to control a puppet's mouth
    with strings attached only to its arms and legs. Variations allowed strings for
    each tooth, if ya wanted. Erik's work is to make variations again, of which MM
    is always, and only, a subset.
  created: '2006-01-02 12:51:50'
- author:
    name: blairyo
  body: "David, could you please explain how you use Mutator? Manipulating outlines
    is straightforward, but when you try to save the changes, Mutator crashes. I'd
    appreciate it if you could help me to solve this problem. \r\n\r\nGX/AAT Variations
    are great fonts. Zycon, Jam, Chunk and Buffalo Gal show the amazing things that
    can be done with a font outline. Skia looks good and for layout work and logo
    design, its condensed and extended variations provide useful options. \r\n\r\nIf
    creating GX/AAT or MM variations was easy, more designers would have built their
    own variations fonts, but it's not and most people probably give up in frustration.
    \r\n\r\nIf Adobe's MM fonts are not counted, only a handful of MM fonts have been
    released since the format's introduction in the early 1990s. \r\n\r\nTo my knowledge,
    apart from the fonts that were commissioned by Apple, no GX/AAT variations fonts
    have been released. \r\n\r\nDesigners do use MM and variations; my local council's
    logo was nicely redesigned in Skia Condensed. Sadly, OSX does not make it easy
    to use MM and AAT variations. The OS supports the format, but in OS 10.4, few
    applications display the variations sliders. \r\n\r\nAfter giving up the battle
    to create a variations font in Mutator, I reluctantly decided to create a Multiple
    Master font instead. After much fiddling with point directions, obscure error
    messages, baffling dialogue boxes and inadequate documentation, I eventually managed
    to build a MM font in FOG. It worked, but the process could have been much easier.
    The Type 1 format doesn't allow for special characters like ligatures and swashes,
    so for me, a GX Variations font similar to Skia would have been a better solution.\r\n\r\nCreating
    GX/AAT substitutions with the classic Apple Font Tools is relatively straightforward,
    but the newer OSX Unix command-line tools are beyond me. I suppose I'll get it,
    eventually, but why have the techniques become harder? Is this progress? The documentation,
    which seems to be written by programmers for programmers, may be ideal for engineers,
    who have the training and aptitude, but the people who really use fonts\u2014graphic
    designers, illustrators, etc\u2014are expected to wade through page after page
    of academic theory and PR which describes the amazing things the technology can
    do. I don't want to be told what's theoretically possible; I want to know how
    to do it! In an ideal world, designers would figure it out for themselves, but
    in the real world, they don't.\r\n\r\nFinally about OpenType; at the moment, the
    OT format is too messy. The specification needs to be finalised and all the features
    built into the operating systems. After that, the various platforms and OS' must
    be compatible. After that, users need a font tool that enables OT features to
    be specified without lots of coding. I wonder if this Nirvana will ever happen?"
  created: '2006-01-03 19:45:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>After that, users need a font tool that enables OT features to be specified
    without lots of coding.</em>\r\n\r\nVOLT. Zero coding. All visual. Of course,
    if you want to edit the background lookup syntax you can, but for the most part
    the only things you need to type are glyph names, numbers, and the occassional
    ->"
  created: '2006-01-03 21:10:30'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"David, could you please explain how you use Mutator\"\r\nNot really. I
    mean, I can flap on about drawing a style and drawing another style with identical
    points, and then about making an axis, assigning its granularity, and then about
    outputting polations of various kinds, editing them and re-vacuforming them, but...Apple
    does not support Mutator, in fact, they revised the application ('99 or '00 I
    think), not to work, or at least since their revision it has not worked for me
    or anyone I know. Beating a dead horse comes to mind. \r\n\r\nThe only way these
    things will be put into a future font standard, is if all three companies suddenly
    wake up, realize they are in old mud, and TOGETHER, plan a better future for type.
    That, for the last ten years, has seemed to me like illuminating a black dog on
    a dark night, knowing that the dog is there, and trying to get other people to
    see it. \r\n\r\n\"TrueType had a slightly rough start back in the early 90s, and
    that tainted it for over a decade in the eyes of the professional publishing industry.\"\r\n\r\nollol
    ...I think that's one point of view. \r\n\r\nAnother, would be that \"Font Wars\"
    occurred because Adobe went 1-r-2 negotiations too far in trying to have a monopoly
    on Type and Page Descriptions, and... Interpreters ;). Apple developed TT and
    offered it to MS with nice binding provisions. Then, Apple and Adobe Agreed that
    Apple wouldn't use no stinkin' PS Clone, and Adobe Would put TT into Its interpreters.
    So, peace came to the foundries, and OS...but, because MS and Apple Didn't bind,
    and Adobe Didn't really let TT in for a while, the war damages moved to the users
    where they continue in a lingering fester of occasional mishaps, like Courier
    ending up in an airport poster, with really bad spacing, like, it was substituted.
    \r\n\r\nAnother, completely different point of view, would be that Adobe had a
    very narrow sense of quality in type \u2014 high quality for print and 300 dpi,
    only. TT came along and offered both Higher and Lower, in addition to High Quality
    type. This caused great, and to me hilarious, consternation. Still does. But at
    the time, unfortunately, decisions were being made about type on the web, and
    based on one format being incapable of delivering web quality type, and the tainted
    quality of TT, we got the web all the way up to proportional bitmaps as good as
    a typewriter of no particular distinction, in no time flat. ;)\r\n\r\nI don't
    mean to pick you at all Thomas, its three whole companies and their imagination-free
    trudge on, head down, devotees.\r\n\r\nBefore anyone else outside of Microsoft
    had the right to VOLT, FB made the right stuff available in fonts for customers
    who wanted future OT compatibility. We as a company, and I as me, are/is \u2014
    all for, all formats, all the time. Being without sin on this issue,, I'm left
    with the obligation to throw rocks. :) We (founders), have Got enough sticks:
    broad character sets, a plethora of rasterizers (2 being 2/3 of a plethora in
    this case), a resolution range from here to kingdom dumb (can you do 7 ppm?),
    not to mention the moving target of fashion and We also have to erase a barrier
    that divides us from users: where we do more of their composition, and they put
    better butter in the fridge, as directly as possible, if not in person. Where,
    exactly are the carrots?\r\n\r\n\"for the most part the only things you need to
    type are glyph names, numbers, and the occassional ->\"\r\n\r\nWow! I can't wait
    to define glyph substitutions myself! I sounds so...fulfilling. It could possibly
    mint thousands of new type designers with all the skills of a ...typist.\r\n\r\nWe
    really do need a higher standard, shared by ALLLLLLLLLLLLLL, that allows even
    higher quality and even lower quality, even more functionality and even less functionality,
    than the \"modern\" formats. Scary? Big Deal, The things I list for additions
    to a new font format are enough to directly and indirectly cause universal employment,
    at least. Otherwise, we're letting the 15th anniversary year of the \"peace(s)\"
    slide by, and you're indicating that a \"consortium\" of some sort is going to
    cast the current plateau of rather inflexible and tainted technologies into broader
    standardage than it already is? <strong>...sounds like old fish stew with fresh
    greens.</strong> "
  created: '2006-01-05 13:09:33'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nDo you see UFO/RoboFab as a step in the right direction?"
  created: '2006-01-05 20:10:47'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Uh oh! David you left the volume up on this thing. </strong>
  created: '2006-01-05 20:12:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Ah, but I bet I can turn it down.</b>
  created: '2006-01-05 21:44:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: But I can also go back to one of my earlier posts and really mess with the
    formatting.</em> It this a bug of a feature?
  created: '2006-01-05 21:48:57'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "John, I went back and closed David's bold tag\u2026 but your funky italic
    thing is from two weeks ago. Can you edit your post and turn it off, or do I have
    to go hunting through the archives for you? ;-)"
  created: '2006-01-05 22:23:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <code>I would have happily done so, Dan, but it looks like you found it. I
    was disappointed that the 'code' tag only applies to single paragraphs :) </code>
  created: '2006-01-06 02:27:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John hacks his own font for posting :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-06 02:47:14'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: Apparently through Georgia, John's happiness can't be expressed fully.   ;
    )
  created: '2006-01-06 03:33:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Do you see UFO/RoboFab as a step in the right direction?\"\r\n\r\nYes.
    In this way, all of the functionality that <em>should</em> be in the font format
    can at least be in the tools. <em>Un</em>fortunately, this will not help Adobe,
    e.g. to stop putting hundreds of extra characters e.g. the many accented \"ass\"
    (that's a.s.s. to sidestep the typocensors ) ligatures into fonts, nor will it
    get indigenous complex Arabic type going or stop the Chinese from making the improvements
    they need to make the format they want. So we're stuck with 3 American cos. sitting
    sweetly upon their hands, blaming the size of the ship for its inability to turn.
    On the bright, all those in need, please report to the starboard bow, we're gonna
    <strong>eventually</strong> make some ice."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "David: How is the present state of affairs (OTF, RoboFab/UFO) deficient
      with respect to, e.g., getting \"indigenous complex Arabic type going\"?\r\n\r\nSecond
      question: What, in yours or others views, is a set of necessary and sufficient
      conditions that a font format/specification/implementaion/whatever needs in
      order to meet the needs of the Chinese, Arabic-script, helping Adobe with bloated
      character sets, etc..\r\n\r\nThis is not all merely abstract speculation: we
      are working on developing new approaches for TeX to deal with opentype etc.,
      and a clear understanding of the problem and its abstract solution is important.
      \r\n\r\nBest"
    created: '2006-01-06 16:46:13'
  created: '2006-01-06 13:00:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>In this way, all of the functionality that should be in the font format
    can at least be in the tools.</em>\r\n\r\nI've never been convinced that interpolation
    belonged in the format, whereas it is very important that it be in the tools,
    and the tools should not be limited by the specifics of the format. The attractive
    thing about Erik's superpolator is that it isn't trying to conform to a particular
    format's notion of masters or variations.\r\n\r\n<em>nor will it get indigenous
    complex Arabic type going</em>\r\n\r\nI suggest spending some time on the VOLT
    community website to see just how much indigenous Arabic font development is happening.
    A lot of it is pretty rough, some derivative, but they are definitely getting
    going. The largest VOLT user groups are, by far, indigenous Arabic and Indic script
    developers."
  created: '2006-01-06 19:53:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"The largest VOLT user groups are, by far, indigenous Arabic and Indic script
    developers.\"\r\nNeccessity is the mother of invention.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-06 20:25:43'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "David, \r\n\r\nMaybe you could respond more specifically to what John has
    mentioned; I can't quite pick apart what you feel are essential components of
    the actual font format (suppose you enumerate what the dream format includes),
    and what tools you feel should be made widely available and used by type makers.
    I agree with John, I'm not completely sure MM or other 'mutating' font capabilities
    need to be delivered straight to the user. This is In the same sense that we're
    all spending a LOT of time hashing out how to program various complicated OT features,
    though the goal is still robust, intuitive, complete fonts, not mini-programs
    that make the user cry. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately I don't know much about Variations,
    but I have a lunch date with my co-worker who I think can help explain it (Dave
    Opstad). "
  created: '2006-01-07 00:11:39'
- author:
    name: blairyo
  body: "Today's NYT editorial 'Working Together for the Average Joe' criticises the
    electronics industry for releasing incompatible products. The writer's comments
    could be applied to font formats, font engines, operating systems and platforms.\r\n\r\nThe
    article is here;\r\nhttp://www.nytimes.com/2006/01/07/opinion/07sat4.html?th&emc=th
    (registration necessary).\r\n\r\nSome quotes;\r\n\r\n\"People would be willing
    to spend even more [on electronics goods] if the industry bothered to make their
    products work with one another. \u2026companies are losing a combined $3.8 billion
    in estimated sales of additional products, content, and services by selling stand-alone
    devices and leaving consumers to make them work together or - as is more often
    the case - not work together. It predicts that such lost sales will rise \u2026if
    things don't improve.\"\r\n\r\n\"Tech visionaries love to wax poetic about the
    networked home, straight out of the Jetsons. Maybe if you're Bill Gates. For most
    people, the reality is a Babel of devices and technical-support staffs that blame
    other companies and don't help. Computer owners have to become security experts,
    network specialists and troubleshooters. So people buy less.\"\r\n\r\n\"The rewards
    are rich, and first isn't always best. The iPod wasn't even close to being the
    earliest digital music player on the market. Now it's the leader because average
    people found it usable.\"\r\n\r\n\"Still, Apple would do well to ditch the closed-circuit
    approach and cooperate with other companies better - or risk repeating the mistakes
    of the past.\"\r\n\r\nQuite\u2026 The key words are 'cooperate' and 'usable',
    but will the industry listen?"
  created: '2006-01-07 16:59:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> The writer\u2019s comments could be applied to font formats,  \r\n\r\nNot
    really. Maybe the font world isn't perfect but what other technology rolled out
    in the late eighties works as well as TTF or Type1 on modern computers running
    every major OS (Mac, Linux, Symbian, Windows, Xbox, etc.,)? \r\n\r\nThe fact that
    users expect old fonts to work is what's holding back the people from inventing
    new font formats.\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-01-07 17:44:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"what other technology rolled out in the late eighties works as well as
    TTF or Type1 on modern computers running every major OS (Mac, Linux, Symbian,
    Windows, Xbox, etc.,)?\"\r\n\r\nCondoms?\r\n\r\nThere is an old Zulu saying that
    comes to mind: \"The good description of a big steaming pile of elephant sh\u0131t,
    is much better than meeting the real thing in bare feet.\" \r\n\r\n\"(Dave Opstad)\"\r\nSay
    hi for me... \r\n\"I can\u2019t quite pick apart what you feel are essential components
    of the actual font format\"\r\nPlease see above list?\r\n\r\n\"Maybe you could
    respond more specifically to what John has mentioned;\"\r\nJohn doesn't know what
    I'm talking about. But I'll try.\r\n\"I suggest spending some time on the VOLT
    community website\"\r\nWhen I'm also convinced that the millions standing in line
    for welfare, means \"we doing a good job to end poverty\" I'll do what you suggest.
    Meanwhile, mine eyes have seen the gory of the coming of Caflisch. This is one
    of the best designs I've ever seen, but whoa unto he who must maketh the light.
    It's also simple enough to sit and wait for our Arabic brethren to hit the wall(s)
    on the 4th or 15th style, no? Making connecting typography (!), with these tools
    and this format, regardless of script, is a loser business that only stupid, temporarily
    curious, or rich people can afford. Is that the way it should stay? \r\n\r\n\"I\u2019ve
    never been convinced that interpolation belonged in the format,\"\r\nI know John,
    but you have a narrow view of what fonts are unable to do. E.g.  Describing Variations
    as Interpolation is like describing love as sex. Try this John, Forget about variations,
    for style, as an attraction on a web site, or if you just want the floral ornaments
    in your stationary to reflect the changes in the seasons.....leave all the future
    behind and go back to the past (recent as that may be): Design a font to work
    for text and display, in high resolution and very low resolution, and for all
    rasterizers, in one outline... not just sayin' so, but knowing in the design and
    production that it will be so without even having to look, then call me and tell
    me what problems you had. :) Imagine, e.g. never having to say \"this italic is
    too light for the Roman, in print, because I made it work for ClearType,\" or,
    \"I chose these serifs because they work best at small sizes on the screen and
    larger sizes on the screen are... okay too...sort of.\"\r\n\r\nSiiiiii....\r\n\"The
    fact that users expect old fonts to work is what\u2019s holding back the people
    from inventing new font formats.\"\r\n\r\nReally? So if I promise to get rid of
    all those lagging slugs, can we make a new format? I think not. I think MS, Apple
    and Adobe are users who expect old fonts to die and with a dsig here and a bunch-o-practically
    useless other stuff there, we'll call it a new format and that is that.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-07 18:21:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The writer's position is pretty dim.\r\nHe should go to a hardware store
    and try to buy a light bulb."
  created: '2006-01-07 18:23:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I don''t think anyone at MS thinks that gsub and gpos are useless, but I
    don''t think anyone at MS sees OpenType as a ''new'' format, it''s always been
    TrueType +.    '
  created: '2006-01-07 18:30:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, you've described to me why variations are an attractive type design
    tool to address optimisation for diverse different size and resoluton conditions.
    I don't doubt it. But the question is whether this is something that belongs in
    the font format, as something shipped to the user that he is supposed to figure
    out how to make optimum use of with sliders or other UI options, with the caveat
    that only some applications may support such features? Or is it better implemented
    as a tool to develop discreet instances tailored to particular conditions and
    licensed as individual fonts?\r\n\r\nI think font formats should be pretty simple
    containers into which richly developed content can be poured (and yes, I know
    that I've left myself open to another elephant sh\u0456t metaphor). We've seen
    how long it takes software developers to support OpenType Layout properly, and
    this is a level of additional complexity that is necessary to support most of
    the world's written languages in even a basic way. We could define the world's
    most wonderfully featured font format, that would do everything we want and do
    it better than OT or AAT or Graphite or ?, but if those features end up supported
    by one minor start-up application in a corner niche of one platform with a tiny
    share of the market, so what? A font format is one part of a text processing and
    graphical layout architecture, and it is the whole thing that needs to be overhauled,
    not just the font specification, which is so much virtual paper by itself."
  created: '2006-01-07 22:59:49'
- author:
    name: sander
  body: "The best and most damaging critique of the OpenType format is is level of
    acceptance, esp. the number of apps that implement any / a significant portion
    of the layout features. Being at a point where the \"current\" font standard is
    too advanced - for app writers anyways - there appears to be little point in dreaming
    up newer and even whackier ones. Similarily, unless there is a long queue of not
    yet registered new feature tags that are about to come out in a new revision of
    the standard the font designers are not really pushing the envelope with OpenType
    either. \r\n\r\nWe don't need hyperdrives - we need the trains to arrive on time.
    \r\n"
  created: '2006-01-08 02:48:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "We need the trains to arrive period.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-08 03:34:03'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I think font formats should be pretty simple containers into which richly
    developed content can be poured\"\r\n\r\nCan you explain how you came to this
    ideal? I mean, the goal, man, is Rich Content. No!?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-09 13:29:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: It seems to me that the majority of users are interested in having fonts that
    are relatively simple to use and which work consistently across a wide range of
    applications, and this ease of use and compatibility is more important, for most
    users, than having fonts that do lots of clever things but inconsistently and
    only if the user knows how to operate them properly. Having sliders to perfectly
    fine tune a typeface for a particular size and output configuration sounds wonderful,
    but you are expecting the user to have the same expertise as the type designer
    in determining what that optimised font should look like. It seems to me that
    most users would prefer to have a simple font labeled 'Use this for ten point
    text on your 600 dpi printer'.
  created: '2006-01-09 21:34:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"It seems to me that the majority of users are interested in having fonts
    that are relatively simple\"\r\n\r\nBitmaps it is then! Whatever tuned you in
    to font format by democracy cripppled your though path. Sorry for ya!\r\n\r\n\"Having
    sliders to perfectly fine tune a typeface...\"\r\nYou're stuck on this I can see.
    If we had sliders for pair kerning, tracking and point size, would you run for
    the cover complexity too? Who said all users would be \"expected to have the same
    expertise as the type designer\". Who?\r\n\r\n\"It seems to me that most users
    would prefer to have a simple font labeled \u2018Use this for ten point text on
    your 600 dpi printer\u2019...Nice thought, has ANYONE on this list ever made a
    10 pt for 600 dpi? Any size for 600 dpi? Does anyone have plans to do so? Is is
    reasonable to expect founders to make fonts for the \"general public\" for a specific
    size/resolution? Have I suddenly walked into a we've-got-poop-for-dna club? I
    hope not.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sander
    body: "I at the very least plan to look at high-resolution instructing of fonts
      - for 300/600/1200 and inkjet resolutions. Whenever I manage to come up with
      a design from which everybody else doesn't run away from screaming, that is.
      \r\n"
    created: '2006-01-10 15:34:01'
  created: '2006-01-10 12:25:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "So what are you proposing, then, David? I'm having trouble following your
    argument. You want variations in fonts, yes? and I point out that variations imply
    users who are knowledgeable and competent enough to be able to select appropriate
    variations with some kind of user interface. Maybe there are enough such users
    to justify the development of some clever typefaces, but are there enough such
    users to interest mass-market software developers in supporting the technology?
    Are you suggesting a format specifically for professional, experienced typographers?
    If that's the world you wanted to inhabit, perhaps you shouldn't have started
    Bitstream and begun this whole democratisation of type mess :) \r\n\r\nGiven that
    the current companies developing and supporting font formats and related technology
    are mass-market software developers, I don't think we can be surprised or very
    critical of what they've done. They are supporting technologies for their user
    base, which is people who don't know much about typography. What's the point on
    hammering at them? The only way they would change is if a really big OEM client
    came along who wanted something more and better and had enough money to make it
    worthwhile.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that, although addressing a different set of
    issues, the SIL folk had the right idea with Graphite: if what MS, Adobe and Apple
    are producing is too limited for you, design your own font format or format extension,
    build tools to make it, and then build applications to use it. That is the only
    way you are going to get away from the lowest common denominator of mass-market
    software.\r\n\r\nBut I'm still not sure exactly what you think this wonderful
    new font format should do or how it should do it, or what the specific benefits
    are. Do you have a spec? You are very good at making gnomic criticisms of OpenType
    -- I'm still not sure what the heck you were getting at with the Arabic comment
    --, and at telling other people that they just don't get it when they can't understand
    your oblique references, but what are the specifics? What should be in the great
    font format? And why are those features better located in the font file than in
    the development tool? And don't presume that I'm smart enough to follow anything
    vague: spell it out for me.\r\n\r\nHeck, if I understood you, I might agree with
    you."
  created: '2006-01-10 19:01:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Rather than a critique of OpenType, I'd like to offer an alternative, hypothetical
    model for a font format:\r\n\r\nSPINE-BASED METAFONT\r\n\r\nThat's spine not spline.\r\nEach
    glyph's 'artwork\" would be the basic, un-stroked path(s) that lie at the centre,
    or spine, of the glyph's stem(s).\r\nThese spines may be fleshed out by the type
    designer in a number of ways.\r\n1. Most obviously, \"expand stroke\"; this would
    have sliders for width, contrast, and angle of contrast -- and these values could
    be varied for different sections of the spine.\r\n2. Terminal. These could be
    specified from a variety of boxes for different serif types, including \"no serif\".
    Each of these options would be editable, for instance \"no serif\" could be varied
    between perpendicular and round.\r\n3. Outline Style. This would be applied to
    the outline eventually generated by the user. Like the Adobe Illustrator feature.
    This could make a rough, size-scalable texture, for instance.\r\n\r\nThese values
    would not be applied by the font tool and forgotten, but would be part of the
    font.\r\n\r\nThen rather than calling up an outline for each glyph, the font tables
    would specify values for each of the \"fleshing out\" variables. Variations of
    these values could be included in the font, specifically for different output
    devices. End users, should they desire, could over-ride the built-in values. Compare
    with the Edit Kern Table feature of Quark XPress, or Multiple Masters. \r\n\r\nThe
    spine-based model of font design is rather like character-building in a video
    game (or the recent South Park website, threaded at Typophile recently).\r\n\r\nWhile
    it may not be as subtle as outlines in rendering display type, the spine-based
    format would be more amenable to joined cursive letterforms and ligatures. \r\n\r\nIt
    would be possible, for instance, for a display/output device to smoothly \"force-join\"
    spines that don't quite line up.\r\n\r\nThe creation of characters missing from
    encodings not supported by the font could be done intelligently by the user's
    application defaults -- such applications would have a database of spines for
    all encodings, compare the font with the required encoding, substitute missing
    characters/spines as necessary, and apply whatever the \"flesh out\" values of
    the font are.\r\n\r\nThis idea isn't new, but goes back to Donald Knuth's pioneering
    work of 30 years ago.\r\n\r\nAlso, it could be connected to live streaming data,
    as per the LettError \"Twin\" typeface.\r\n\r\nThis mutable basis for a font format
    is more appropriate to the digital era than the present one of fixed outlines.\r\n\r\nI've
    just come across the SVG font format, which seems to be along these lines?\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-10 20:11:22'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"I\u2019m having trouble following your argument\"\r\n\r\nDitto. David,
    my issue is not that I am unimaginative or stubborn, or attached to a backlog
    of invested technology, but that I can't understand you. Like John, I might find
    that you are actually saying things I agree with and could respond to. I find
    your messages very cryptic. Nevertheless, I'm very interested to know about your
    ideas. "
  created: '2006-01-10 20:53:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Laurie,\r\nThe Cliff notes version is:\r\n[[MultipleMaster]] fonts were originated
    in the 80s by Adobe as a way to generate variations of different fonts based on
    axis (or master). A pair of axis might change weight from light to bold. Another
    pair of axis might change condensed to extended, Users could dial in anything
    between the extremes designed into the axis pairs. The idea was to let the user
    select the degree of boldness or extendedness, or whatever. After several years
    of production, Adobe abandoned the concept as an end product. However, Multiple
    Master (MM) axis are used today by type designers in programs like FontLab to
    help generate variations of weight, etc.. It is now mostly an interpolation tool
    and assumes some degree of cleanup by the designer afterwards but much less than
    starting from scratch for each variation. I am sure there is a much better explanation
    on the Adobe site. You can also do a search on this site and find insightful dialogue
    including people who have had a role in MM development.\r\n\r\nOpenType is a developed
    set of standards put together by a combination of groups. The two most influential
    being Adobe and Microsoft. The consortium worked hard to address the shortcomings
    of previous standards and came up with a cross-platform solution which addresses
    multiple language and script usage along with including what used to be \"Expert
    Sets\" for small caps and oldstyle figures and stylistic alternates, ligatures,
    and contextual alternates. The real info on opentype is best read from the Adobe
    and Microsoft web sites.\r\nA Google search will get you more than you ever dreamed
    of as resources. Again, search this site as well where you will find plenty of
    comments from Adobe and Microsoft staff as well as some very savvy Indi font designers.\r\n\r\nAs
    a start, here is a wikki entry on Opentype:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/wiki/OpenType\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-12 01:26:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'A small correction, Chris: not a pair of axis (sic - the plural is axes)
    but a single axis between a pair of principal masters. So a single-axis MM font
    had two masters. A two-axes MM font had four masters. And so on. The maximum number
    of axes allowed by the format was four, i.e. sixteen principal masters. [I use
    the term principal masters, because in later versions of MM, Adobe introduced
    the idea of intermediate masters, i.e. a master part way along an axis between
    two primary masters, which would affect the interpolation on either side of it.]'
  created: '2006-01-12 02:32:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks John! I hope Laurie reads you correction too.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    I was hoping the Axis was not evil :-)"
  created: '2006-01-13 14:07:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "No. These are the Axis of Owl.\r\n\r\n\"So what are you proposing, then,
    David? I\u2019m having trouble following your argument.\"\r\n\r\nProgress. Do
    you John, Simon, Thomas, others, take the OT format to be your legally wedded
    format, 'till death do you part? (Not a rhetorical question).\r\n\r\n\"That is
    the only way you are going to get away from the lowest common denominator of mass-market
    software.\"\r\n\r\nI had no idea that was the goal, making \"the lowest common
    denominator of mass-market software\" font format. All this time, I thought: all
    those scripts, all that resolution, all those customers, devices, and all that
    type design, were going to require the highest common denominator. /\\/\\/\\:-o
    (head Scratch.) \r\n\r\n\"But I\u2019m still not sure exactly what you think this
    wonderful new font format should do or how it should do it, or what the specific
    benefits are. Do you have a spec?\"\r\n\r\nSpec?  I'd need to see, or hear, source
    code for OT-TT & AT&T & the rasterizers, again?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "Thoughts:\r\n\r\nReading everyone's comments, it seems to me that, as far
      as the long-term (maybe long-long-term->) future is concerned, we need something
      like an OOo (OpenOffice.org) approach. Something as important as a universal
      font format should be an open source as well as openly developed thing. For
      example, the state of Mass. (following an international trend) has just mandated
      switching to open document formats for electronic communication.\r\n\r\nBetween
      the work of people like the Letterror crew, creative ideas like those of Nick
      Shinn and SIL, and the cooperation of font creation developers/managers like
      Adam and George Williams, there is no reason why the type-developer community
      cannot or should not take the lead here. If the community acts proactively,
      and unites around a common aproach, the commercial interests will follow its
      lead in the end, and help to make it successful. \r\n\r\nA nice thing about
      OOo is that, since it's open-), developers can use it as a real life testing
      ground for ideas; there is no commercial interest to stop you. For truly high-end
      typesetting there is TeX, also open to hack and develop. \r\n\r\nIf we get an
      open standard going, meeting the needs of both the average user and the high-end
      typesetter, commercial interests will not wait long before jumping on the bandwagon...\r\n\r\nIdris"
    created: '2006-01-16 18:53:29'
  - author:
      name: sander
    body: "umm... dberlow, can you explain some things? Like who that new spec would
      be useful for? How one would decide which parts of opentype are the insufficent
      ones? What would convince the app writers who have so far hardly embraced Opentype
      that something new (in fact something new with hardly any font support) was
      going to be worth their while? What would convince font foundries (doesn't matter
      if small or large) to support it? \r\n"
    children:
    - author:
        name: ishamid
        picture: 111213
      body: "Hi Sander,\r\n\r\nCaveat: Obviously, I do NOT speak for dberlow;-)\r\n\r\n<em>
        who that new spec would be useful for?</em>\r\n\r\nhigh-end typesetters perhaps?
        average users who need more flexibility?\r\n\r\n<em> How one would decide
        which parts of opentype are the insufficent ones? </em>\r\n\r\nOpen Source
        community style, focusing on the needs of typesetters and interested users.\r\n\r\n<em>
        What would convince the app writers who have so far hardly embraced Opentype
        that something new (in fact something new with hardly any font support) was
        going to be worth their while? </em>\r\n\r\nUse OOo and TeX for testing and
        implementation, and the commercial app writers will follow suit, if only to
        compete.\r\n\r\n<em> What would convince font foundries (doesn\u2019t matter
        if small or large) to support it? </em>\r\n\r\nIf a few foundry owners are
        involved in designing the spec, others will come along. The present format
        was developed by \"companies who are overwhealmingly not type founders\" to
        quote David. Ok, then get the foundries involved! \r\n\r\nBest\r\nIdris"
      created: '2006-01-17 00:31:24'
    created: '2006-01-16 20:28:17'
  created: '2006-01-16 00:36:27'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "is this the type of thing you're alluding to?:\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/14606\">OpenType,
    now more open</a>"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "Hi Paul,\r\n\r\n<em>is this the type of thing you\u2019re alluding to?:</em>\r\n\r\nThat
      is a start, but I was also referring to a concern that has come up in this thread,
      including dberlow's comments, viz., that the format was designed largely with
      commercial interests in mind. If so, then typographers and high-end typesetters
      should take the lead on the Next Big Thing (tm), and not merely follow the lead
      of the commercial giants. OOo and TeX provide free, open source platforms for
      testing new ideas in both the mundane word-processing world and the high-end
      typesetting world, so we don't have to \"wait\" for the commercial interests
      to act first; let them follow the community's lead.\r\n\r\nBest\r\nIdris"
    created: '2006-01-17 00:11:33'
  created: '2006-01-16 19:25:48'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Coming late to this thread, I would like to make a few corrections and observations
    and apologize in advance for length:\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson writes, \r\n\r\n'FontLab
    only supports primary master [[interpolation]] (but as a design tool it also supports
    extrapolation, thanks to Adam Twardoch, which is a nice feature that MM didn\u2019t
    have).' \r\n\r\nJohn, a moment's reflection will make you realize that this statement
    is untenable. All MMs are extrapolable. Think about it. There is nothing in an
    MM font that prevents this. All you need is a 'Creator' app that will allow the
    user to extrapolate. Adobe did, indeed, have a version of ATM (could it have been
    2.4?) that permitted extrapolation. The feature was taken out because it was felt
    that the instances were unpleasing and did not reflect Adobe's quality image -
    always the risk with extrapolation. But any app developer that wished to could
    write a 'Creator' that did extrapolation. In other words, this is not an issue
    of the font format, it is an issue of the software used to support it.\r\n\r\n'What
    should be in the great font format? And why are those features better located
    in the font file than in the development tool? And don\u2019t presume that I\u2019m
    smart enough to follow anything vague: spell it out for me.' \r\n\r\nLet me explain
    why David is so impatient, John, with the thinking behind this remark. This goes
    back to the late 1980s and [[Sumner Stone]]'s reign at Adobe. It had long been
    realized that multiple axes were a desirable design tool, thanks to the pioneering
    work of the late Stephen Harper (among others - and have I got his name right?).
    But it was Sumner who had the idea of putting variable type in the user's hands,
    and not just the type designers, and then went on to sell [[John Warnock]] on
    the idea. Warnock did indeed eventually embrace it, and of course MM is still
    a critical component of Acrobat and for that matter any Acrobat-alike, such as
    OS X Preview. In other words, it is already 20 years ago that someone had the
    idea of putting variations and other features into users' hands. Having lived
    through this 20 years ago, David is naturally surprised that the issue should
    still be up for discussion. \r\n\r\nMark Simonson writes 'There were only a small
    number of MM fonts built, mostly by Adobe, and you needed ATM to use them.' Mark,
    I am unaware of any MM font that cannot be used by any app in XP, OS 9 and OS
    X. ATM is 'hard wired' into XP, OS 9 and, roughly speaking, OS X.\r\n\r\nOn the
    other hand, it was as difficult as you like to use the fonts to their fullest
    capabilities. In this sense you are quite correct. \r\n\r\nThomas writes,\r\n\r\n\"Yes.
    Unfortunately, our experience with MMs was that applications were not very interested,
    and users did not easily \u201Cget it.\u201D Of course, one could put this down
    to insufficient evangelism (my own explanation of it).\"\r\n\r\nI disagree with
    this. One program and one program alone ever had the MM interface down to the
    point where anyone could enjoy using MMs: Lari Software's Lightning Draw GX which
    worked on System 7.5 through 8.1 and perhaps beyond. Unfortunately, although the
    revelatory LightningDraw feature set has driven the bulk of Adobe Illustrator
    improvement from versions 7 through 9, Adobe itself never got the interface right.
    The problem wasn't evangelism. The problem was that Adobe never showed app developers
    how to do it right, and never helped font editor developers to make MM development
    easy. The reason it didn't help font editor developers was because it wanted to
    keep all good MMs to itself. But Adobe really shot itself in the foot by not committing
    interface engineers to showing everyone, especially its own app developers, how
    to make MMs both easy and fun to use. This is really a pity. And of course, as
    David points out, MMs are hopelessly primitive compared to Variations and other
    successor technologies. \r\n\r\nPaul D Hunt writes,\r\n\r\n\"dream format: multimaster
    opentype fonts\"\r\n\r\nPaul, way back in the infancy of time, say 1997-2000,
    this was the format that everyone expected to have. MM was withdrawn from the
    OT spec because Microsoft believed it would be too much trouble for its app developers
    to support. This is right in the sense that it would be difficult to app developers
    to support well, in the absence of built-in OS support such as Apple had demonstrated
    with GX. But it is not right in the sense that the beauty of MMs is that the app
    doesn't have to know it is looking at an MM. As far as the app is concerned, an
    MM can be any other font. And in spite of all of that, MS deserves credit for
    being the first app developer to support the optical axis in MM fonts automatically
    (as in mid 1990s versions of MS Word). Another word for your dream format is Apple's
    [[GX]], from the late 1990s, which did just about everything in MM and OT, and
    quite a bit more. GX almost became a dual Mac/Win standard, but there were some
    last minute hitches over money. This time around, instead of getting [[USB2]],
    which really works, we got OT, which really doesn't.\r\n\r\nWhat David is really
    talking about is that there is no provision in [[type technology]] for optimally
    implemented type. And that's because, as he instances, few here have ever had
    to design a 10 pt type for 600 dpi rasterization. Few here have any concept what
    a type can, and should do, beyond its basic unitary design. Type needs to be better,
    and at the same time it needs to be more fun. \r\n\r\nI think it is unnecessary
    to spend time on the issue of MMs and OT, because I think it is clear, as some
    at Adobe and other companies believe, that MMs will rejoin OT as soon as OS's
    and apps run out of other features and need some novelty. In two years, five years,
    or ten years, we will see MMs in OT again. But, as David would point out, what
    is the point of doing something so old-fashioned when so many more advanced things
    could be done? It should be happening now. The painfully simple technology we
    have today has a bad effect on designers because it doesn't challenge them to
    go to the extremes of their craft.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-17 07:28:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I was asked to critique the open type format, and I did. Now, I've been asked
    to tell you who would use this stuff, and I already did. You should r e a d it
    again if you didn't get it, but I firmly believe that real Chinese and fancy Arabic
    CANNOT BE MADE for TEXT & DISPLAY, or for SCREEN AND PRINT, to the standards of
    even metal, with OT. I pointed this out several ways, including to say that I
    think anyone who believes they are doing the same for Latin is a Lier. Even the
    great Verdana, e.g. is not suitable for anything but screen and printer agate.
    \r\n\r\nShould a \"Standard\" be thus so limited? I have asked a dozen questions
    here and gotten no answers, just more baby questions :)"
  created: '2006-01-17 13:03:29'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I have a question. Earlier, Thomas spoke of how big an advance OT is, how
    it shouldn't be surprising that apps can't deal with it yet (10 years later),
    how 'difficult' everything is.\r\n\r\nWait a minute, Thomas. Apple did this all
    with GX in the mid 1990s, and they had the code for both Windows and Mac. So where's
    the difficulty? Where's the 'advance'? In another ten years we might have a bit
    more OT progress, a bit of MM, but what is that compared to what Apple coded for
    both platforms in 1995? Something is wrong with this picture, because here we
    are ten years after OT and neither MS nor Adobe yet supports it fully in their
    own apps. Under these circumstances, why would, and how could, anyone else support
    it? And as David points out, if it really is useless for Chinese and Arabic ...
    what's the point?\r\n\r\nHere's my dummy's question. Simplifying the issues to
    an extreme, is it roughly true to say that the philosophy of GX was to make advanced
    typography features easily available to app developers whereas by contrast, with
    OT, the burden is on the app developer to implement advanced typography features
    himself?\r\n\r\nAnd if OT really is a cock-up, as it appears it is, isn't it better
    to admit that now and try to fix it before any more app developer time is lost?
    We've had ten years of excuses. That isn't good enough.\r\n\r\nAnd finally, isn't
    it time for everyone - Adobe, MS, and even Apple - to look at GX again as a model?
    GX was not just about type, after all. The point of GX was to provide built-in
    code for all advanced graphical application development so that, for example,
    an Illustrator-quality app could be built to version 2.0 quality in six months
    and to version 8.0 quality in 12 months, and this by a tiny team. I give just
    one example. LightningDraw was the first bezier curve program to offer transparency.
    That's because GX had it built in and all the app had to do was call it. That
    happened around 1996. It took Corel, Adobe, and Macromedia another three years
    or so of phenomenal effort to get transparency into Illustrator, Draw, and Freehand.
    What a waste of intellect and shareholder dollars.\r\n\r\nNow look at Adobe and
    MS and their investment in their own complex apps which now enjoy near-monopoly
    status. And you wonder why they don't really want to make things better for other
    app developers. \r\n\r\nNow look at Berlow's comment roughly to the effect that
    foundries have to all intents and purposes been effectively excluded from OT development.
    \r\n\r\nNow ask yourself: if you're going to stealth in a closed type situation,
    what better thing to call it than _Open_ Type?\r\n\r\nWhat a complicated situation
    this is. Where do we go from here? Where are the people of intellectual calibre
    adequate to lead us out of this mess? "
  created: '2006-01-17 20:38:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hello, Bill. I don't think anyone is going to look at GX again, least of
    all Apple. But this relates back to what I said earlier in the thread, that you
    can't divorce type technology from the strategic and economic interests of OS
    developers unless you take full responsibility for the entire rendering model,
    plugging into the system resources only when you need to or find it efficient
    without compromising what you want to do. There are good examples of software
    that does this, mostly specialised software dealing with e.g. music layout or
    mathematics typesetting. I mentioned SIL's Graphite as another example: a model
    that allows SIL to provide support for scripts and languages without waiting for
    support from MS or Adobe and without being limited to the Mac OS and AAT support.\r\n\r\nThe
    great thing about the sfnt file format is that it is so readily extensible and
    is a great basis on which to build new stuff. There is no reason at all why one
    couldn't spec new tables to support things one wanted and no reason why one couldn't
    make tools to build such tables. And now that OpenType is becoming an ISO standard
    (as part of the MPEG standard) there is a mechanism for having such tables formally
    recognised as part of the OpenType format withouth relying on MS or Adobe (although
    the international standards process is not for the the impatient or easily frustrated).
    But getting something into a font spec, or even getting the tables into a font,
    is not the same thing as getting the layout behaviour supported in applications.
    This is where you run up against the strategic and economic interests of the software
    developers, and so long as you are relying on them for the software to actually
    use the font you will have to deal with this problem.\r\n\r\nSo perhaps the answer
    is to consider high quality typography as a specialist software goal (which is
    basically what TEX did, although the results were not always so high quality),
    and not something we should expect from mass market software."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "<em> This is where you run up against the strategic and economic interests
      of the software developers, and so long as you are relying on them for the software
      to actually use the font you will have to deal with this problem.</em>\r\n\r\nThis
      is exactly where alternatives like OOo and TeX can play a very fruitful role.
      Free and open source.\r\n\r\n<em>So perhaps the answer is to consider high quality
      typography as a specialist software goal (which is basically what TEX did, although
      the results were not always so high quality)</em>\r\n\r\nIn the case of TeX,
      I think we have to distinguish the capabilities of TeX from the limitations
      of its users, who are not generally typographers. Also, LaTeX makes high-end
      typography difficult because many things are hard-wired in that format (though
      the relatively recent memoir package alleviates this).\r\n\r\nAny high-end software
      can be used to make mediocre output. Yet few if any layout programs can match
      what a competent typographer/typesetter can do with TeX-) particularly in some
      areas like critical editions and similar complex layout, including control of
      orphans, widows, typesetting on a grid, etc.\r\n\r\nThe newer format ConTeXt
      gives non-programming users a degree of access to typographical sophistication
      with TeX that was previously accessible only to expert TeX programmers. When
      added to the microtypography features of pdfTeX there is little that ConTeXt
      cannot do when it comes to hq typography; it is truly an amazing engine and
      perhaps the best kept open secret in the high-end typesetting world.\r\n\r\nHere
      is a draft manual explaining and illustrating some high-end typesetting control
      capabilities of TeX:\r\nhttp://www.pragma-ade.com/general/manuals/style.pdf\r\n\r\nSee
      especially pages 29--38\r\n\r\nIt's not your grandfather's (or even your father's)
      TeX anymore;-) \r\n\r\nBest\r\nI"
    created: '2006-01-18 01:24:32'
  created: '2006-01-17 22:12:51'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'I said earlier in the thread, that you can\u2019t divorce type technology
    from the strategic and economic interests of OS developers unless you take full
    responsibility for the entire rendering model, plugging into the system resources
    only when you need to or find it efficient without compromising what you want
    to do. There are good examples of software that does this, mostly specialised
    software dealing with e.g. music layout or mathematics typesetting.'\r\n\r\nJohn,
    I want to reread carefully what you've said earlier - perhaps tomorrow. For now
    I just want partially to parse the passage here. Today, two principal app makers
    - MS and Adobe, have indeed taken full responsibility for the entire rendering
    model. MS, because it's in full control of the rendering model for Windows, and
    Adobe, because of its no-longer-so-top-secret plan, Project Whatever it is called,
    which has now been fully implemented, whereby each Adobe app (e.g. Ill, PShop,
    InD) has its own entire rasterizing system built in. Yet in spite of all this
    control their own apps don't have anything near full OT support, and indeed, far
    from full support, each app seems to support a different and, remarkably, exclusive
    subset, if I at all understand what is going on. People are being remarkably careless
    with their claims here. For instance, earlier Thomas claimed something to the
    effect that when OT came out, more apps supported it than supported MMs when they
    were discontinued. But partial support is not full support. It is also possible
    to say, and I did, that every app on Mac and Windows supports MMs to this day.
    And they do: but partially, not fully. \r\n\r\nI would also like to say that nothing
    can be more confusing to the user - certainly not slider bars - than any OT font,
    because there is no standard character set. You know the argument: what do I get
    new when I buy Adobe Bodoni in OT? Answer: not a single new glyph. Ah, but wait
    a minute. Answer me this: why did I have to buy a new set of Utopia OT because
    I couldn't get Utopia Type 1 to work in InDesign CS? \r\n\r\nuh - er - umph. Gotta
    run. "
  created: '2006-01-18 03:01:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "DB: <em>I firmly believe that real Chinese and fancy Arabic CANNOT BE MADE
    for TEXT & DISPLAY, or for SCREEN AND PRINT, to the standards of even metal, with
    OT</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know enough about Chinese typography to comment on that,
    and I'm not sure how you compare SCREEN typography in OT with what was available
    in metal type -- a singular case of apples and kumquats --, but I do know quite
    a lot about Arabic typography. What can be done with OpenType for Arabic is better
    that 99% or more of the metal typesetting of Arabic ever produced. In fact, there
    is really only one example of metal typesetting that surpasses what has currently
    been done with OpenType, and that is found in one half of one book printed in
    the Ottoman Empire near the turn of the 19th-20th centuries. It is only found
    in one half of the book presumably because the system was so difficult to get
    right that the compositors seem to have stopped paying attention in the second
    half; perhaps they had a deadline to meet and couldn't spend so long selecting
    the appropriate special sort to use in each instance. I have not analysed this
    edition, but I would be surprised to find that there was anything in it that could
    not be modelled in OpenType. As long as you are dealing with a discreet set of
    fixed shape sorts that are positioned relative to one another, there isn't a lot
    you can't do in OpenType with some ingenuity in the layout lookups. What OpenType
    cannot do is the kind of thing Tom Milo is doing with his Arabic engine, but then
    no previous Arabic typesetting system has been able to do what Tom is doing, which
    is to directly model both the rules and the order of the classical calligraphic
    styles. This involves dynamically adjusting the glyph shapes on the fly and breaking
    the text string into stratified layers and writing them successively, anticipating
    what will be the int subsequent layers. Neither of these things can be done in
    OpenType, but then they couldn't be done in any other typesetting system either.\r\n\r\nTom's
    technology is another good example of a specialised typesetting system, appropriate
    for a high end publishing system employing the classical script with all bells
    and whistles. And it is crucially important that such technology exists, but you
    wouldn't necessarily want to use it for your Arabic e-mail. There are technologies
    and levels of implementation that are appropriate to different circumstances,
    and the level of complexity that you want for one purpose might simply be an inefficient
    processing overhead in another situation."
  created: '2006-01-18 06:10:26'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The great thing about the sfnt file format is that it is so readily extensible
    and is a great basis on which to build new stuff.\"\r\n\r\n:) @ack\r\n\r\n\"I
    don\u2019t know enough about Chinese typography to comment on that, and I\u2019m
    not sure how you compare SCREEN typography in OT with what was available in metal
    type \u2014 a singular case of apples and kumquats\"\r\n\r\nYes...Well, here's
    the way it works. The keys tinkle different, to begin where all such discussions
    of \"universal\" font formats should, with the users. First,  the users who input,
    and then the users that read the result. (Assuming that the mill of commerce has
    taught the former to obey the latter even before being told to do so by the Central
    Party;)). \r\n\r\nIn this alternate key tinkling universe, the individual characters
    (40,000 or so), representing what we call words or phrases, are build up of a
    small number of strokes (18 or so), representing the not-so-long-ago abandoned
    manual strokes produced with the hand. These small number of strokes play out
    into hundreds of variants as they are combined into radicals, (parts of whole
    characters closest in Latin to something like a letter, syllable, or word), and
    again slight variations occur in strokes and in radicals as they are combined
    to form complete characters. But back at the input, there are a number of ways
    to accomplish it; from hunting for the complete character, to typing a phonetic
    translation in another script to built radicals up to characters.\r\n\r\nThe broadest
    method coming into general use is the input of radicals to form complete characters,
    and the future trend is towards the most intelligent computer-aided input possible,
    which would allow several parallel and instantly selectable systems, (i.e. The
    user can float amongst hunt and peck, input by phonetic, or by radicalanji). And
    what the readers want is fine Chinese, which is to say as much refinement to the
    strokes as the designer can provide to \"even out\" the great variety of density
    and complexity in the Characters. That is the market for text, where I think all
    \"universal font format\" critiques rest, but those ideas exend to nearly all
    applications. The important message I took away from learning this is/was, that
    the best and future input method, and best output result are both achieved by
    careful preparation of fonts to make them able to react through the underlying
    strokes and radicals of the characters,,, to the input and to the output conditions
    \u2014 then making a font by combining the parts in the font tools and removing
    overlap is obviously the wrong solution for the long term, (a long term which
    happens to be now relative to when Apple published their Eastern Scripts the first
    time...).\r\n\r\nWhy? \"I firmly believe that real Chinese and fancy Arabic CANNOT
    BE MADE for TEXT & DISPLAY, or for SCREEN AND PRINT\" \u2014 would be obvious
    to anyone who's designed or claimed to design baby scripts like Latin for multiple
    size use (and/or low resolution). In addition, when you throw the resolution problem
    at stroke and radical unaware Chinese fonts, well, its worse than having an elephant
    squat upwind of you in a hurricane... e.g... I once was asked to estimate \"where
    it might be safe to rasterize the simplest Chinese design without hints, grey
    scale, or dropout control, so I proofed the first two levels of the Japanese Industry
    Standard character set (14,000 or so), and located a character with 33 transitions,
    e.g. 16 black strokes, and 17 white spaces. So the answer was 67 and that is what
    I still give as an answer for all scripts when anyone asks about that sort of
    number for any script...67.\r\n\r\nThis is why I critique this format so harshly:
    A. Without the use of more intelligent composites and the capability of variations
    at input/output, not fontput(!), OTKaput 20?? in China. B. Without the employment
    of more intelligent people in the driver's seat, or intelligent and talkative
    passengers, we only have the best \"Latin First!\" font format in OT.\r\n\r\nAnd...Metal
    is not the object, it is a Marker."
  created: '2006-01-20 15:51:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Okay, so it turns out I know more about Chinese typography than I thought,
    since none of this was new to me.\r\n\r\n<em>The broadest method coming into general
    use is the input of radicals to form complete characters, and the future trend
    is towards the most intelligent computer-aided input possible, which would allow
    several parallel and instantly selectable systems.</em>\r\n\r\nIf this is true,
    then it will presumably drive technologies to support such input, including font
    technologies."
  created: '2006-01-20 20:08:27'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Okay, so it turns out I know more about Chinese typography than I thought,
    since none of this was new to me.\"\r\n:) I know, You ignore this wisdom in Latin
    type too. \r\n\r\n\"What OpenType cannot do is the kind of thing Tom Milo is doing
    with his Arabic engine, but then no previous Arabic typesetting system has been
    able to do what Tom is doing, which is to directly model both the rules and the
    order of the classical calligraphic styles\"\r\n\r\n:) In some parts of the world,
    and I know I'm not saying anything new here, there is a great deal of interest
    in skipping metal typographic influence, going straight from calligraphy to computer
    composition. I see this need in Every Culture. The problem for Arabic is one that
    you don't see, even though you're staring Milo's stuff in face?\r\n\r\nISO, (aka,
    I Surrender, Okay?) didn't get hints, features, interpreters or rasterizers did
    they? Did they get anything more than Kontours and Kerning? (ISO gets hand-me-downs
    that no one thinks afford more competitive efforts). These \"assets\" are then
    frozen in a bureaucratic Tar Pit, while the important things, mentioned as not
    in ISO's sticky lit'le hands, will continue to divide and retard. The boat has
    been rocked biannually, as I promised a long ago. "
  created: '2006-01-21 15:57:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Nothing to do with the topic of the thread, but a correction:\r\n\r\n>not-so-long-ago
    abandoned manual strokes produced with the hand\r\n\r\n>coming into general use
    is the input of radicals to form complete characters, and the future trend is
    towards the most intelligent computer-aided input possible\r\n\r\nAFAIK, neither
    of these statements is accurate. I was recently in China. Everybody is trained
    to do decent looking characters--which are not easy--and I was struck that every
    broken-down shop has hand-written signs and posters that generally look quite
    competent, and sometimes excellent. The tradition of writing characters is strong,
    and alive. (They generally don't understand that roman characters look wrong when
    written with a round brush, but that is another matter.) \r\n\r\nThe current method
    of inputing Chinese characters into the computer is through the romanized phonetic
    Chinese, Pin Yin. You type the phonetic pronunciation in roman characters, hit
    the tone number (1-4) and the character pops into your text. Everyone in China
    is now taught Pin Yin writing along with Pu Tong Hua (Mandarin), so all young
    people can use use the computer in this manner, if they have gone through elementary
    school. There is no reason to think the inputting through strokes or radicals
    is the wave of the future. \r\n\r\nThe traditional education involved simultaneously
    teaching water color painting and calligraphy. I thought I heard that this is
    being dropped, and the use of romanization for the computer in this way may threaten
    the general excellence of Chinese writing. By the way, you can't judge Chinese
    graphic design by the horrible examples you see in China Towns in US cities. The
    general level of graphics in Chinese cities is much better. How they handle words
    in roman text and logos, which are fashionable, is often clumsy, though. "
  created: '2006-01-21 16:34:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The problem for Arabic is one that you don\u2019t see, even though you\u2019re
    staring Milo\u2019s stuff in face?</em>\r\n\r\nOur difference is that I see the
    need as being particular to circumstance, and I'm not convinced that the technology
    required to do what Tom does is the same technology as I need for other kinds
    of Arabic text processing. This is not simply because his technology is slower
    than OpenType, but that OpenType itself is too slow when it tries to emulate (imperfectly)
    calligraphic models. The problem is in using processing models of great complexity
    where a simpler model is appropriate to the particular circumstances. You might
    be willing to wait for a page of the Qur'an to be slowly rendered in immaculate
    emulation of the calligraphic norms, but you don't want to wait the same amount
    of time for an email using a much simpler style of the script to be displayed.
    This is why I favour multiple technologies tailored to different circumstances,
    rather than a one-size-fits-all technology, whether that is OpenType or something
    else.\r\n\r\n[UPDATE 1 May 2007 : the above comments about the relative speed
    of OpenType vs Tom Milo's ACE layout engine were based on secondhand claims. Tom
    challenges them, and I have not had the opportunity to make a direct comparison
    myself. Tom's new Tasmeem plug-in for InDesign ME will hopefully provide such
    an opportunity, and I'll be more than happy to withdraw the above comments. For
    now, they should be taken as reportage of what I had been told, with full acknowledgement
    given to Tom's disagreement: 'ACE beats OT hands down. It was already fast on
    a 4Mhz computer in 1986. In Tasmeem there is no apreciable difference in rendering
    speed between ACE and OT - yet the ACE tasks are far more elaborate.']\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    recently made an OpenType font that supports correct display of the Hebrew Bible
    text. In order to handle the complexities of the Biblical text, my font ended
    up being many times slower to process than a typical Hebrew font designed for
    use in modern Hebrew. The trouble is that my font remains that much slower even
    when used for modern Hebrew text. This is an example of what I am talking about:
    complexity that is appropriate for the circumstances of typesetting the Hebrew
    Bible is not appropriate for reading Hebrew email. In this case, the complexity
    is within the font, but in Tom's case the complexity is in the rendering engine.
    In either case, the complexity is excellent and necessary for its intended purpose,
    but is an ineffeciant overhead when the technology is employed for other purposes."
  created: '2006-01-21 22:32:38'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">ISO, (aka, I Surrender, Okay?) didn\u2019t get hints, features, interpreters
    or rasterizers did they? \r\n\r\nISO gets the complete OpenType specification
    1.4 (which is already part of MPEG) with some implementation specific text and
    company names and trademarks removed - that's their rules. Once its an ISO standard
    I wouldn't be surprised if Apple proposes the addition of their variations stuff.
    I look forward to seeing what you, Erik & Just, Bill and others propose too.  "
  created: '2006-01-22 00:06:09'
- author:
    name: sander
  body: "Is an ever more perfect rendition of calligraphic arabic according to centuries
    old rules really the future (and end-all) of Ararbic typesetting? \r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "Hi Sander:\r\n\r\n<em>Is an ever more perfect rendition of calligraphic
      arabic according to centuries old rules really the future (and end-all) of Ararbic
      [sic] typesetting?</em>\r\n\r\nThere are two schools of thought on this. One
      school, perhaps the dominant school, says, ``Hey, let's adjust Arabic-script
      typography to fit Western digital typography technology; forget the manuscript
      tradition''. The other says, ``No, let's create a technology that can bring
      the manuscript tradition into the age of digital typography just as it was brought
      into the age of metal-type at the turn of the 20th century''.\r\n\r\nIn my own
      opinion, there has been very little that comes out of the first school that
      is aesthetically pleasing at all. The first school represents a defeatist attitude
      that is unfortunately quite common. It is also unfortunate that the only available
      book on Arabic typography promotes this defeatism.\r\n\r\nThere is a perhaps
      hidden subcontext to your question that needs fleshing out: The relation of
      calligraphy to manuscript writing in Arabic is a bit different than that relationship
      as it exists in European history. Although Islamic civilization was aware of
      printing technology before Europe, it was hardly accepted for serious works
      until the 20th century. It was never a matter of technology but of aesthetics.
      In the context of a Muslim civilization that maintained its territorial and
      intellectual independence, there was the spine to accept metal press technology
      only on its own terms. As Imperialism took root and the new coopted intellectual
      classes begin to worship everything European, that backbone gave way to the
      defeatist attitude that dominates so much of Arabic typography to this day.\r\n\r\nI
      cringe when I read Arabic books today, just like Knuth cringed when he saw the
      first printing sample of one of his books using the then nascent digital typography.
      But instead of being defeated, Knuth spent ten years designing a system that
      can be programmed to implement the bulk of traditional typography plus be ready
      for future developments. \r\n\r\nThat is exactly what Arabic needs today, so
      that books can be enjoyable to read again. And so I can get on with my own critical
      editions...\r\n\r\nThomas Milo takes the second approach; opentype capabilities
      help as well. \r\n\r\nBy the way, one can take a proactive approach to traditional
      Arabic-script typography without being reactionary. Once the proper rendering
      algorithms, etc. are available, we can build on tradition and move into the
      future from a truly authentic foundation, as opposed to one based on the limitations
      (wrt Arabic-script) of Western digital typography technology. \r\n\r\nAll the
      best\r\nI"
    created: '2006-01-23 06:05:26'
  created: '2006-01-23 05:16:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "There is something called Adjacency. The issues of Adjecency manifest themselves
    in different ways in each of the major scripts. Having separate technologies to
    deal with them, is as stupid as I've ever heard, but Cutting Edge Luddites have
    their entertaining moments don't they!? :) Is there a type word beyond more kerning
    pairs, for typographic adjacency,,, please? \r\n\r\nWith Latin, and with the exception
    of connecting scripts and a few other type styles, in our everyday working fonts
    we've herded our adjacency issues into Kerning Pairs, and, standing by our love
    of long-necked \"f's\" we do all sorts of things. This had been a nontrivial exercise
    from Gutenbaby's time until mechanical composition nearly killed even the f ligatures.
    Later, just to make sure we didn't find ourselves behind in an adjacency crisis,
    we let the beast spread from the simple problem of adjacent characters in a font,
    to the far more profittable and complex problem of adjacent style issues.  Chinese,
    solves its adjacency \"upfront\", in a sense, caching all the combinations with
    a myriad of parts into each character, and solving the issues well enough to set
    characters in any direction and dimension or on any curve, without kerning or
    substitution.\r\n\r\nArabic, has a few styles without adjacency issues, mostly
    simplified, scratched and modern, I think. It also has some with moderate, or
    easily predictable adjacency that I'm sure are solved from metal to OT. But the
    further, back (or forward !;) ) you go, perhaps in relation to some \"golden age\"
    of leisure time (or a future age of super computing power in a pack of gum), you
    find what I'd call roiling adjacency, where, yeah, it'd take a little while for
    the final forms to settle as issues resolve themselves among the input (BUT SO
    WHAT!). It could be unique when it finally stood still, depending on that input.
    But we'll not know for while yet, we're still making up our dumb \"a**\" logos.
    ;)\r\n\r\nThe important think (!) to remember, as this seems to such cause great
    shirking in the name of progress, is that when you put a trailer hitch on to the
    back of your car it does not automatically slow your car down. In fact, you have
    to hook it up to something for that to happen. Another important think to remember,
    even though you probably didn't know it before, is that this problem could be
    defeated much like the towing problem, by adding a hook that allowed composite
    parts to be stacked (like trailers rollin' down the highway), instead of being
    processed independantly, and all existing fonts'd still work JUST FINE. In addition,
    real designers would also be able to make parts react to composition the way the
    brain sometimes wants to read 'em.\r\n\r\n\"That (stack-based composites and variations),
    is exactly what Arabic needs today, so that books can be enjoyable to read again.
    And so I can get on with my own critical editions\u2026\"\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "Hi David,\r\n\r\nCould you flesh out your adjacency/stack-based-composites-and-variations
      idea a bit more? I have forwarded your ideas to the people working on the next
      generation of the TeX engine; would you be willing to consult on making these
      ideas more precise for us? \r\n\r\nFeel free to contact me off-list to discuss
      this. It is all open source but there may be a funding option-)\r\n\r\nBest\r\nI"
    created: '2006-01-23 18:15:50'
  created: '2006-01-23 13:10:11'
- author:
    name: nadine_chahine
    picture: 110003
  body: "Sorry for joining in late... I'll try to be quick as there's a lot to be
    said and never enough time.\r\n\r\n>There are two schools of thought on this.
    One school, perhaps the dominant school, says,\r\n>\u201CHey, let\u2019s adjust
    Arabic-script typography to fit Western digital typography technology; \r\n>forget
    the manuscript tradition\u201D. The other says, \u201CNo, let\u2019s create a
    technology that can \r\n>bring the manuscript tradition into the age of digital
    typography just as it was brought >into the age of metal-type at the turn of the
    20th century\u201D.\r\n\r\nThere's another approach to this and it fits neither
    schools: we are here to solve problems. If the design problem is a new one, then
    the solution will be new. If it's an old problem, then old solutions would work.
    I refer here to the aesthetics and not the technology as rendering calligraphic
    designs is still a work in progress and still unavailable to a large audience.\r\n\r\nExample
    1: An Arabic signage face for an airport is a new problem (ie 20th century and
    later) and as such, when you design it, you don't think: hmm, what would the Ottomans
    do? Rather, you look at what the problem is (legible from distances etc...) and
    then see what style of the script fits best and how can you make sure that it
    fits the design brief. Obviously, not a Thuluth or a Nastaliq.\r\n\r\nExample
    2: An Arabic face for the setting of a poetry book. Well, there's a large repertoire
    of script styles for that, wonderful! Call Tom Milo and you'll be happy.\r\n\r\nI
    think we miss out on a lot if we say that one or the other is a better school
    of thought. The important thing is that the type needs to function.\r\n\r\nA slightly
    off-topic note: one does not need complex technology to make good Arabic typefaces.
    The heritage of \"unhappy\" design solutions is not just because of the technology.
    It has a lot to do with the designers as well. Take a look at Tim Holloways' Markazi
    font. It can be easily represented with OT today and it is one of the most avant
    garde and fresh designs that has ever been designed for Arabic, absolutely wonderful.
    It is obvious that he is a talented designer and understand 2 important things:
    1- the nature of the script, 2- what a typeface needs to do. \r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "Hi Nadine,\r\n\r\nU r right of course, we are here to solve problems. The
      \"two schools\" thing is a meta issue wrt the best way to approach solving the
      problems. What some of us believe is that, even in designing e.g. an airport
      logo, technological access to the tradition is important, and new trends can
      be developed on that basis. And one need not be reactionary, as Mohammad Zakariya
      points out.\r\n\r\nCould you point me to a sample of Tim Holloways\u2019 Markazi
      font? I'd like to see it-)\r\n\r\nI do not deny that good work can be done even
      with limited technology. But with appropriate (as opposed to \"complex\") technology
      one is even better situated to solve problems: one has more choices.\r\n\r\nBTW:
      I am sure I've seen Nastaliq airport logos before, in Iran, Pakistan, maybe
      even Kuwayt...\r\n-))\r\n\r\nThank you for your comments!\r\n\r\nBest\r\nI"
    created: '2006-01-23 18:08:05'
  created: '2006-01-23 17:20:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, yes. What you are saying now is much less vague (thank you), and I
    agree.\r\n\r\n\r\nIdris, you can see a sample of Tim's Markazi type in the awards
    section of <em>Language Culture Type</em>. I rate Tim as one of the greatest living
    type designers, but his work is often overlooked because it has been exclusively
    in the realm of non-Latin scripts. If you have the Adobe Acrobat 7.0.5 upgrade,
    which implements support for Arabic, Hebrew and Thai, you should have the new
    Adobe Arabic fonts somewhere on your system. This new design by Tim is a good
    example of what Nadine is talking about: Arabic type design starting from a question
    of purpose (in this case the quite broad application of modern business communications
    in a wide range of languages -- the sample below is Persian).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AAPersian.png]"
  created: '2006-01-24 11:52:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Hi Idris, \r\n\r\n\"Could you flesh out your adjacency/stack-based-composites-and-variations
    idea a bit more?\" \r\n\r\nI can try. Once you have the composites on a stack,
    you have two sorts of opportunities to deal with; One are additional design issues,
    how and when the different parts are called and what else you can do to them in
    combination with x-y movement, scaling, rotation, location in variation space
    and hints, all at your disposal to best solve the \"local\" marking and adjacency
    issues and improve to either a wider range, or a more precise target of quality,
    for output. There's a lot more to say about that though to make it clear in detail,
    but the singular most important thing is without the right APIs, the founder must
    precache all the \"arrows\" he or she wants to \"target\" to \"users\". The second
    opportunity is of course in the output, how does the stack with interacting components
    and variations get the best possible transformed image to the rasterizer, and
    then to the user, who presumably asked for it in the first place, completing a
    loop with the type designer, if they're good. Today's font API's don't dare ask
    much of the user, os or beyond, and therein lies the barrier, a sparsely populated
    loop of possibilities that practically no one can breech for the masses of PC
    users.\r\n\r\nTeX, bless it's heart, has been applied to every single script,
    application and occupation, but has never made a mass audience happy. I will gladly
    help you in and out of list, but not for hire. Nadine, John, and many others have
    said that the spec. comes from the users. I think that the spec. \"they\" need,
    (i.e. for what could be advertised as a \"World Wide Operating System\") is what
    we've got now, plus, a \"few minor tweaks\" a new old table or 3, and an API adjusted
    here or there to \"ask more.\" The major problem lies in the will of three companies,
    Yes, I can arrange some sort of thing with ISO all by myself to change the Written
    Spec., but it'd be so much more effective if the companies who were making billions
    of users wear the typographic equivalent of cardboard shoes to formal occasions
    Actually do it. They are the API Barons and without really getting them overboard,
    as I'm sure SII can attest if the Seahawk Bowl hasn't completely consumed his
    reason, canoeing without a paddle comes to mind. \r\n\r\nAnd John, (thank a higher
    deity of your choice), agrees with me fully, or at least I've rocked enough so
    he can see over the side,,,;) which means I can call my brain surgeon off defcon
    4, where he was fully prepared to downgrade me to a clam shucker, or pack me off
    to a grape stomping school, he's not quite sure, my brain surgeon having received
    a C- in the phrenology of type from the University of Southwestern Kamchatka at
    Murlk\xE9. This Arabic Specimen is absolutely gorgeous! Crisp, Clean and Precise.
    For numerous applications, I'd think it'd be perfectly suitable. But on the other
    hand, I could easily imagine applications where it would be cold, monotonous and
    inappropriate. But I can also see a relative of this type squirming and twitching
    around slightly into 37 different word spaces, 4 different 2-dot-accent variations,
    246 versions of the 75 glyphs present, not just for better line endings, but then
    it'd be appropriate for something else, and then something else...for something
    else."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "Hi David,\r\n\r\n<em>I can try. Once you have the composites on a stack,
      </em>\r\n\r\nThnx for the clarifications. I also got some feedback from the
      pdfTeX team on your original suggestions, which I will forward soon.\r\n\r\n<em>TeX,
      bless it\u2019s heart, has been applied to every single script, application
      and occupation, but has never made a mass audience happy.</em>\r\n\r\nWith ConTeXt
      there is now hope-)\r\n\r\n<em> I will gladly help you in and out of list, but
      not for hire.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's fine, it's all open source anyway-) Thank you
      very much for offering your help. I turned my email setting on so you can contact
      me directly (and i don't need to invite spam by posting it publically):\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/user/10590/contact\r\n\r\nWe
      are preparing for heavy movement in the pdfTeX team so now is the best time
      to get things right-))\r\n\r\nThank you again David. \r\n\r\nBest\r\nI"
    created: '2006-01-25 04:54:09'
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "Hi David, \r\n\r\nThe following is from Taco Hoekwater, one of the pdfTeX
      core developers:\r\n\r\n``have to read through that thread more carefully, but
      I think I\r\nunderstand what David is talking about. What he has written so
      far\r\nis not very helpful in the practical sense, so I am looking forward\r\nto
      some more detailed elaboration from him. Saying that glyph resolution is a matter
      of 'Adjacency' is like stating that hyphenation words is a matter of 'Syllable
      recognition'. Definately correct, but not very practical (yet).\r\n \r\n``I
      find it intrigueing that this is very close indeed to the Knuthian\r\nconcept
      of a ligature&kern-program. I suspect this also brings the\r\ngreatest flaw
      in his proposition to the spotlight: for the average\r\nuser it will be too
      hard to program such a stack.\r\n \r\n``Perhaps the solution for character to
      glyph mapping could be something like this: Assume a 'script' definition as
      in Unicode. Add a 'language' setting, and a 'typographic  style'. Call that
      a 'Script environment'. All Adjacency within such a Script environment can be
      written down independant of actual fonts. You have to make some combinations
      in a Script environment optional of course, so that font families do not have
      to be perfect.\r\n \r\n``The font-specific information then comes down to a
      quantification\r\nof the current 'Script environment'-s parameters, and that
      is something that should be doable for a non-programming typophile.''\r\n\r\nLet
      us continue this discussion-)\r\n\r\nBest\r\nIdris"
    created: '2006-01-25 20:31:51'
  created: '2006-01-25 00:03:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>This Arabic Specimen is absolutely gorgeous!</em>\r\n\r\nI'm very pleased
    to report that today we received word that Tim's Adobe Arabic design was selected
    in the TDC type design competition."
  created: '2006-01-25 03:53:52'
- author:
    name: sander
  body: "Idris: <cite>There are two schools of thought on this. One school, perhaps
    the dominant school, says, \u201CHey, let\u2019s adjust Arabic-script typography
    to fit Western digital typography technology; forget the manuscript tradition\u201D.
    The other says, \u201CNo, let\u2019s create a technology that can bring the manuscript
    tradition into the age of digital typography just as it was brought into the age
    of metal-type at the turn of the 20th century\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nBut do you
    see these two sides as the only two possible sides? Besides, aren't these <em>technological</em>
    sides, and not really font design and looks related as such? Is part of what you
    are saying with bringing the  manuscript tradion into 20th century is akin to
    being able to properly spell <em>na\xEFve</em>? Or am I confused? \r\n\r\nI'm
    still also mystified at the lack of the evidence in form of additional features
    (which can do pretty darn anything[1] with just the existing lookup types) for
    a push in the direction of change. After all, if it is being held back, surely
    pressure for such with accompanied patches for pango / qt would cause some to
    exist by now? \r\n\r\n[1] and by anything I mean that you can make a virtual machine
    equivalent to Turing machine\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "<em>But do you see these two sides as the only two possible sides? Besides,
      aren\u2019t these technological sides, and not really font design and looks
      related as such?</em>\r\n\r\nThe two are related. Without the adequate technology,
      font design suffers. Why design a serious font that implements fine traditional
      typography if there is no engine to render it?\r\n\r\nAgain, I don't deny that
      there are works of beauty out there with the limited technology, but even those
      designs could be better if there were a technological paradigm appropriate for
      Arabic out there.\r\n\r\nThe ligature approach is extremely inefficient as far
      as traditional Arabic is concerned, and puts far too much burden on the type
      designer. With the correct technology one can do really fine Arabic typography
      with no ligatures, and type designers would take less time on any given advanced
      font.\r\n\r\n<em> Is part of what you are saying with bringing the manuscript
      tradion into 20th century is akin to being able to properly spell na\xEFve?
      </em>\r\n\r\nYes, that is part of it. For example, there is no application that
      makes it easy/painless to implement vowels and diacritics. Try editing/correcting
      anything more than a couple of vowelized sentences in Word or anything else
      and u'll see what I mean. \r\n\r\nBest\r\nI"
    created: '2006-01-25 16:50:28'
  created: '2006-01-25 10:16:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Various comments:\r\n\r\n<cite>coming into general use is the input of radicals
    to form complete characters, and the future trend is towards the most intelligent
    computer-aided input possible....</cite>\r\n\r\nEven if this is true, it is essentially
    independent of fonts. Each collection of radicals need to be mapped to a character,
    and this can happen before or after mapping to glyphs in the font. Or contrariwise,
    a character could be mapped down to a collection of radicals for drawing purposes.
    You still need to know the character regardless.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, there is
    more than one proprietary Asian font development environment that uses a stroke-based
    system to assemble glyphs from collections of radicals. But that's a separate
    question from what format the font ships in. It's akin to the fact that we can
    use multiple master tech as a design tool regardless of what format we ship the
    final fonts in.\r\n\r\n<cite>There is something called Adjacency. The issues of
    Adjecency manifest themselves in different ways in each of the major scripts.
    Having separate technologies to deal with them, is as stupid as I\u2019ve ever
    heard....</cite>\r\n\r\nI agree. It's a good thing that OpenType uses the same
    technologies of GPOS, GSUB, and contextual layout regardless of the script. Sometimes
    the feature tags differ, but that's pretty trivial, really. (Of course, one could
    say something similar about GX/AAT as well.)\r\n\r\n<cite>Is there a type word
    beyond more kerning pairs, for typographic adjacency,,, please?</cite>\r\n\r\nContextual
    layout behaviors. This encompasses kerning and more. Note btw that kerning in
    OpenType is not restricted to pairs....\r\n\r\nBTW, David, Chinese does not solve
    the adjacency problem by grouping radicals into characters. Chinese solves the
    adjacency problem by then making those characters monospaced, at least in metal
    and AFAIK film composition systems. However, Chinese writing is not necessarily
    monospaced; the typesetting systems imposed new constraints upon the pre-existing
    script. (All of this is true for Japanese as well, btw.)\r\n\r\nWRT GX/AAT, whether
    or not Apple ever developed a version for Windows is irrelevant - they never deployed
    it on Windows, and they refused to license it to Microsoft. Result: GX/AAT is
    and has always been a Mac-only technology in any way that matters.\r\n\r\nFor
    multiple master fonts, ATM Light is required on Windows 2000 and XP to get them
    to work. (Perhaps the default instance will show up without ATM, I forget how
    that worked.)\r\n\r\nI'm not going to respond to Bill's comments and speculations,
    regardless of the truth or falsehoods in them. I did a big public presentation
    at ATypI a while back on why MM fonts went away, and I was there when the decisions
    were made. Bill can believe what he wants.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-26 05:39:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"more than one proprietary Asian font development environment that uses
    a stroke-based system to assemble glyphs from collections of radicals. But that\u2019s
    a separate question from what format the font ships in\"\r\n\r\nI'm sorry Thomas,
    but this is not correct. Imagine for a second, that you were in charge of the
    Corporate annual report, but the font your company uses does not come with the
    Warnok glyph?  This' to say, it may be true for Latin, that there can be a clean
    and complete break between the technology of the founder and that of the user,
    (though I for 1 (and apparently, only), do not believe it), but the universal
    requirement for where the break is, is broader. Broad enough, in fact, that I
    believe some users need access to composite controls, and even more need it for
    variation control, or, as I said before, foundries of quality are forced to ship
    100's of styles per family.\r\n\r\n\"BTW, David, Chinese does not solve the adjacency
    problem by grouping radicals into characters. Chinese solves the adjacency problem
    by then making those characters monospaced,\"\r\n\r\nOr not. I don't think I understand
    your point, but that may be because you don't understand mine? \"Chinese does
    not solve the adjacency problem by grouping radicals into characters\" could only
    mean that you don't consider the Chinese character to be a word, or what? They
    solve the problem by caching the word into a uniform cell, and then using those
    cells uniformly, for the most part.\r\n\r\nIdris, \r\n\r\nI'm a bit confused by
    Taco. \r\n\"I suspect this also brings the greatest flaw in his proposition to
    the spotlight: for the average user it will be too hard to program such a stack.\"\r\n\r\nDoes
    he mean the average type street user, or main street user? There is no intent
    for the average user to ever even know the stack exists, or that a stack could
    or should exist for them to look for...So, maybe the issue of discussing this
    is that I have no idea what common ground Taco, you and I have in anything from
    hinting to semantics. I mean, it took me two or three weeks to convince a few
    people around here, and they and I should be, more or less, on the same patch
    of intellectual ground. ;)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "Hi David,\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m a bit confused by Taco.</em>\r\n\r\nIt seems
      to me that the point is to put a mechanism in place where the typical user can,
      at a high-level, define how TeX uses a given font for the kinds of advanced
      capabilities that we have been discussing, and do it in a way that fits your
      ideal of \r\n\r\n<em>and all existing fonts\u2019d still work JUST FINE</em>\r\n\r\nI
      don't think TeX is concerned about hinting and related font technology (should
      it be?). The main idea I get from your comments is a mechanism to implement
      advanced-script needs with at least a reasonable degree of font format agnosticism.
      \r\n\r\nWhat Taco is trying to say (I think) is that, the way Knuth did it,
      the \"ligature&kern-program\" is done at a level to which the normal user would
      not have high-level access. But for issues of adjacency some high-level access
      may be required because the various script-issues involved may not be reducible
      to a single paradigm, as in the case of traditional Western typography. TeX
      may implement, for a given advanced script, a generalized model, and users can
      give the parameters for a given font. \r\n\r\nBut perhaps this makes font format
      agnosticism difficult, because you need something like an afm file to provide
      the needed parameters for generalized kerning aka adjacency. Anyway, the engagement
      of typophiles like you is a great asset as the right course of action is plotted.\r\n\r\nNote
      that I refer to use 'advanced-' instead of 'complex-' or 'problem-' with respect
      to scripts like traditional Arabic and associated technology. The latter two
      adjective-prefixes have pejorative connotations that feed an incorrect framing
      of the overall problem. To say that ``This problem/complex script requires complex
      technology'' basically frames the issue in a way that lets font designers and
      software companies off the hook...\r\nBest\r\nI\r\n\r\nPS. The font that typophile.com
      uses a right single quote that is out of harmony with the left single quote.
      I think that a site like this one should look into that-)"
    created: '2006-01-26 20:13:50'
  created: '2006-01-26 13:09:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The font that typophile.com uses a right single quote that is out of
    harmony with the left single quote. I think that a site like this one should look
    into that</em>\r\n\r\nIdris, ` is not a left quote, it is a grave accent (U+0060).
    You should use the ' (U+0027) key for both left and right quotes, and let the
    clever algorithm figure out how to display them 'thus'."
  children:
  - author:
      name: ishamid
      picture: 111213
    body: "Thank you John. I fixed it but the algorithm is still inconsistent: ``''
      works for dbl-grave+dbl-apostrophe but the analogous situation does not work
      for sngl-grave+sngl-apostrophe. Indeed, I cannot input a single quote pair at
      all without a context. More consistent would be to force the use of the dbl-quote
      symbol twice, which does work. \r\n\r\nSo the typophile algorithm should either
      remove the dbl-grave+dbl-apostrophe or add support for sngl-grave+sngl-apostrophe==>left-right
      quotes.\r\n\r\n-)\r\n\r\nBest and Thnx\r\nIdris"
    created: '2006-01-26 20:54:42'
  created: '2006-01-26 20:41:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hmm. David and Thomas, are you saying that Chinese language programs assemble
    Chinese characters on the fly from radicals? \r\n\r\nI don't think this is true.
    Also it seems mind-boggling to think of a program that could do this, given that
    there are none, it seems, that automate kerning and bolding that well. Assembling
    the radicals would also involve rescaling as well as bolding and thinning, and
    the characters splash around more than roman, so the fitting problems would be
    greater. \r\n\r\nIn 'Now Read This,' on the new Microsoft Clear Type fonts, they
    say that the Kanji characters (= Han Zi = Chinese characters) for the font Meiryo
    were drawn by a team. The first 3000 were drawn, and \"carefully analyzed as models
    to make subsequent production of the rest as automated as possible.\" The others
    were produced by the Japanese firm C & G, \"using their in-house automated production
    method working with the analyzed data of kanji radicals.\" I gather from this
    that they needed additional information on each radical--perhaps for just this
    typeface--as to how to scale it, and perhaps also needed to look and correct.
    \r\n\r\nIn any case the all the Kanji characters are in the font, and not assembled
    on the fly. As I said, Chinese is input using the Pin Yin romanization, and I
    would guess that Japanese is input using the Japanese alphabet, hiragana, rather
    than radicals.      "
  created: '2006-01-26 20:55:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" TeX may implement, for a given advanced script, a generalized model, and
    users can give the parameters for a given font.\"\r\n\r\nI see. I think this should
    say: \r\nTeX may allow the implementation of a generalized model,for a given enriched
    opportunity script ;). Then, typographers can create fonts and the typogrphy required
    for this opportunity, and users can interact if they need to with the parameters
    for a given font's typography, or in cases of extremely rare opportunities, with
    individual characters within the font, but in general, the user's are specifying
    no more than line length, leading point size and other \"last opportunity\" variables,
    and the font/TeX takes the other cares away...\r\n \r\n\"Hmm. David and Thomas,
    are you saying that Chinese language programs assemble Chinese characters on the
    fly from radicals?\"\r\n\r\nHmm? There are some for sure, that assemble on-the-fly,
    which is to say, when the character is called by the font manager little parts
    recipies and interpreters whirl out Chinese glyphs. My guess, is when the MS and
    Apple fonts were being specified, the imagination of the specifiers was to ask
    the Japanese partner for \"The\" definition of \"Quality\". That definition was
    of fonts made in digital format to mimic a size of a font made for metal or film.
    Narrow specification complete for wide application, figure out the input your
    selves... Other font makers \"over there\" have other standards of quality more
    appropriate to applications outside of print, where vast glyph armies that don't
    scale, rotate, skew, contour, shadow or color well, are... less useful to the
    market.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-27 15:09:31'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Thomas writes,\r\n\r\n'I\u2019m not going to respond to Bill\u2019s comments
    and speculations, regardless of the truth or falsehoods in them. I did a big public
    presentation at ATypI a while back on why MM fonts went away, and I was there
    when the decisions were made. Bill can believe what he wants.' \r\n\r\nThomas,
    I think you should hold the heat. This is a pretty fact-oriented discussion and
    anytime someone says something that someone else doesn't understand or disagrees
    with, there is appropriate give and take until the issue is worked out. We can
    all understand if you just want to vent ire, but if you have a specific problem
    with something I've said, tell us what it is, and back up your position with some
    verifiable facts. Do not waste everyone's time with 'I forget how that worked'
    kind of remarks. 1. you should know. 2. you should spend the two minutes it takes
    to find out before you waste the bandwidth. Everyone realizes that you are not
    one of the towering intellectual giants of type development. But tidier mental
    habits would bring you a lot closer to that goal, and your intellect, functioning
    at its possible best, is desperately needed in the type industry. In the meantime
    let's focus on what is so importantly emerging here, a potential synergy between
    Berlow and these TeX people. "
  created: '2006-01-28 08:41:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "From the links to the ISO story we have this:\r\n\r\n\"This allows, [mpeg\u2019s
    adoption of OT] for example, for the streaming of text in a format based on 3GPP
    Timed Text providing a low bit rate solution for subtitles or karaoke-like applications
    growing in popularity worldwide.\"\r\n\r\n... a huge relief. It\u2019s been bad
    type that\u2019s kept me from being a professional Karaoke instructor. \r\n\r\nFrom
    Adobe on the same topic:\r\n\r\n\"OpenType fonts have been embraced by creative
    professionals worldwide, who recognize the benefits of multilingual support and
    the new levels of creative control they have when delivering high-impact text
    for print, the Web, and a wide variety of computing and display devices,\" said
    Digby Horner, senior vice president of Engineering Technologies at Adobe. \"The
    ability to compress and embed beautiful resolution-independent text as part of
    an MPEG-4 application will expand the creative options open for everyone working
    with a broad range of multimedia technologies.\"\r\n\r\nYow. Now that is a lot
    to live up to: compressed and embeded beautiful resolution-independent KANJI IN
    MOTION at text sizes...\r\n\r\nWhen anyone can show a demo of this, I'd be interested
    in singing along. "
  created: '2006-01-30 12:48:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Karaoke is a technology 99% of the world can relate to, but some would argue
    that quality captioning text for translated subtitles or captions for the hearing-impaired
    are more important.\r\n\r\nMPEG previously used OpenType as an externaly referenced
    proprietary spec, but other standards (digital TV, high-def DVD etc.,) require
    the standards they reference to be open standards. As MPEG had already accepted
    OpenType it was decided that OpenType should be standardized through ISO's MPEG
    sub committee (SC29).\r\n\r\nIf you'd like a copy of the PPT we presented on this
    at ATypI I'd be happy to forward it. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-30 16:56:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Karaoke is a technology 99% of the world can relate to\"\r\nI would say
    that number is really closah to 19%, if realte to means \"use\", but I don't wear
    a helmet, I'm not an over-the-top marketing expert, and I don't fall on my head
    much anymore. LOGO is, IMHO, the closest to 100% in universal relatability, and
    TEXT is next at 80-90%.\r\n\r\n\"copy of the PPT\"\r\n\r\nThanks! Does any MS
    document list all of the potential arguments, or variables, that can be asked
    of a font and used by the API(s?). Greg's old mantra, Script, Language, Character,
    Glyph...but complete? Does this now include speed and direction of text?"
  created: '2006-02-02 12:52:31'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "I recently noticed this statement:\r\n\r\n\u201CWhat OpenType cannot do is
    the kind of thing Tom Milo is doing with his Arabic engine, but then no previous
    Arabic typesetting system has been able to do what Tom is doing, which is to directly
    model both the rules and the order of the classical calligraphic styles\u201D\r\n\r\nThis
    is not true. We - the DecoType team - set out to design Arabic typography, not
    calligraphy. By closely inspecting Middle Eastern typesetting and reading their
    own statements we learned that these craftsmen modeled their work after the ubiquitous
    Arabic script grammar. With hindsight, that is the only thing one could have expected:
    it happens everywhere. For normal text use, type designers have always reproduced
    script, not redesigned it.\r\n\r\nPresently, our engine does _exactly_  what previous
    Arabic typesetting systems used to do. Not the Dutch or the Italian ones, but
    the Turkish and the Lebanese ones, of course.\r\n\r\nAs for calligraphic styles,
    these are beyond our competence, we don't touch them. We deal with scripts that
    were in use as metal typography: naskh, ruqah, nastaliq and, to a lesser extent,
    thulth.\r\n\r\nAs for the fact that Open Type cannot deal with Arabic typography
    in this sense, it's not our fault. We did not impose or raise the standard, we
    just implemented it.\r\n\r\nI hope that clarifies the matter.\r\n\r\nt\r\n \r\n\r\nThomas
    Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2008-07-29 21:24:29'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "I don't know the details of what Thomas Milo is doing for Arabic in OpenType,
    but it must be, as the Israelis  say: \"Mamash.\"\r\n\r\nI have heard outstanding
    praise from one whose opinion I value a lot, and can imagine that he's doing something
    like I would want to do, but my focus is not Arabic, but Biblical Hebrew, Nikkud
    Hebrew for poetry, students, and children, and invitational Hebrew for birthday,
    bat mitzvah, and wedding invitations.\r\n\r\nI think that MS VOLT and OpenType
    is the tool and font format to let our imaginations go wild. Contextual replacement
    is the key to everything, as I imagine that Thomas is exploiting for Arabic.\r\n\r\nOn
    a different topic, I think Multiple Master technology failed because certain letterforms,
    like the m and w need wider widths and radical design  changes at small point
    sizes in one direction, and a totally different set of rules for narrower widths
    and different letter designs for larger point sizes in the other direction.\r\n\r\nDBerlow,
    is this what you had in mind in part?"
  created: '2008-08-04 03:35:10'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Somebody asked me in private. I gave this explanation, and thought that others
    would wonder the same thing.\r\n\r\n\r\n>> \"I don\u2019t know the details of
    what Thomas Milo is doing for Arabic in\r\nOpenType, but it must be, as the Israelis
    say: 'Mamash.'\"\r\n\r\n> What does this mean?\r\n\r\nI am sorry for not explaing
    myself earlier.\r\n\r\n\"Mamash\" is a Hebrew term for \"actual\" or \"real\".
    \r\n\r\nThe Israelis use it as a super-complimentary explaim about something which
    they consider very great, something like the Americans say: \"Wow, cool!\" Or
    in yester-year: \"Keen!\" \"Groovey!\" [Dis people really say that?] Or the British:
    \"Jolly good!\"\r\n\r\nBut for the Israelis, it is even more superior. I am sure
    in Europe or Arabic, you have an equivalent term.\r\n\r\n=====\r\nNOTE:\r\n=====\r\n\r\nLike
    most every Hebrew term that Israelis use, \"mamash\" has its origins in Biblical
    writings. In this case, \"mamash\" originates in the Biblical commentary of the
    great medieval sage, Rabbi Shlomo Yitchaki, who questioned how G-d was able to
    fool Abraham to think that his guests were ordinary Bedouins when actually they
    were angels? Rashi (as he is known by this acrostic of his name) explained that
    G-d dressed the angels in human bodies, using the phrase: \"the 'mamash' of the
    angels\".\r\n\r\n[\"Mamash\" also has a negative connotation among well-versed
    Chassidic Jews. Rashi's comment: \"the 'mamash' of the angels\" refers to the
    \"waste of the angels\", based upon a profound kabbalistic teaching that this
    world results from the waste or excrement of the spiritual world above it, and
    that spiritual world results from excrement of the spiritual world above it, etc.
    As this can be interpreted derogatory, I specified how the Israelis use it, to
    emphasize only the positive meaning] :)\r\n"
  created: '2008-08-04 16:46:23'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Hi Israel, just for the record, I want to clear up the point you raised here:\r\n\r\n>On
    a different topic, I think Multiple Master technology failed because certain letterforms,
    like the m and w need wider widths and radical design changes at small point sizes
    in one direction, and a totally different set of rules for narrower widths and
    different letter designs for larger point sizes in the other direction.<\r\n\r\nThe
    design differences for m and w over large axes are not so great that they have
    not been resolved by slight compromises in design at the axis extremes -- or even
    without compromise. However, when the letter really does need to change, Adobe
    (but almost nobody else) used an intermediate master. This was first implemented
    in ITC Garamond MM for the w.\r\n\r\nAn impeccable source who would probably prefer
    to remain unnamed has definitively explained Microsoft's historical reluctance
    to support MM in OT. One major reason was that neither MM nor Variations gave
    Microsoft the kind of hinting quality it was looking for. Microsoft thought that
    optical variations could (for which you might read would) add much to their quest
    for better screen quality, but not until they could be hinted better. \r\n\r\nThat
    is an entirely understandable position to take, especially given the vast amount
    of work MS has put into screen quality. Adobe didn't come up to the plate on that.
    Another point, but one I find less acceptable, is that \"proper support\" (by
    which Microsoft really does mean proper support) would mean 'we needed to seamlessly
    integrate it throughout the whole font API in Windows. This would mean adding
    additional \"font state\" for every API, and/or adding additional APIs (ExtExtTextOut
    was just too much!) This would have been a large testing/architectural hit for,
    in my opinion, something not used by many customers. (I agree that this is a catch-22
    situation)'\r\n\r\nThat's not so easy to accept because adequate (if not proper)
    support for MM was already automatically present for all Windows apps via ATM
    (built-in or not). But Microsoft's hinting concerns _were_ important.\r\n\r\nFinally,
    when you consider that while Microsoft was not willing to dump its MM customers
    (to the extent that Vista still supports MM via ATM 4.1 if UAC is turned off),
    but that both Apple and Adobe are willing to dump MM customers, you can see where
    Adobe would prefer to sit on its hands rather than do any extra work for other
    companies. This has been a traditional cultural problem for Adobe: it wouldn't
    support MM development in Fog; it wouldn't support MM usage in anyone's apps;
    it wouldn't add value to OT STD fonts because that would benefit other foundries;
    it wouldn't support ATM or MM in OS X; there are countless other examples of its
    cutting off its nose to spite its face -- but they can all be understood when
    you realize that Adobe's gut allegiance is to closed standards. Never forget that
    John Warnock cried when he made the public announcement that the Type 1 spec would
    be released. Time and time again, for 16 years, I have heard the same thing from
    dozens of companies: \"Adobe wouldn't give us the support we needed.\" And that's
    of course why ATM is built into Adobe's apps: that way, MMs can work within Adobe's
    apps (though not elegantly) but not necessarily in other companies' apps. Obviously,
    the last thing we want is a font format that only works in Adobe's apps.\r\n\r\nDropping
    MM support was not a popular move, and the executive who made the decision, a
    tosser (as they say in England) called Dan Mills, was soon thereafter let go.\r\n\r\nSo
    whatever the reason MM or a superior technology is not, at present, with us, it's
    not because of the shape of m and w. \r\n\r\nAnyway, that's why MM lost out in
    the late 90s. But going back in history, there are other reasons. Apple's GX supported
    both MM and GX variations superbly and fully at the OS level. GX gave you all
    of that plus essentially everything that OT provides. \r\n\r\nMicrosoft strongly
    desired to license GX for Windows 95. So we could basically have had everything
    we want and still don't have in font technology on August 24, 1995, except for
    one thing:\r\n\r\nApple wanted too much money -- even for Microsoft -- and there
    were some other fancy restrictions they wanted to place on the technology. But
    they were within a heartbeat of agreeing on a deal that would have benefited us
    all colossally (not just as regards fonts; GX made much of advanced application
    programming ridiculously easy).\r\n\r\nRemember how Apple wanted too much money
    for Firewire? That's why we have USB2, which nobody wanted to design.\r\n\r\nApple
    lost out -- because GX didn't ultimately benefit it -- and MS lost out because
    it had to redevelop the technology in a much less elegant manner that 13 long
    years later is still not there. (GX took only 4MB of additional memory!)\r\n\r\nWhat's
    the greatest argument in favour of MM? Well, today, it's that I just sent a font
    to someone. He asked, 'could it be a little darker?' -- sure it could, if he wasn't
    on a Mac. \r\n\r\nI suppose the moment will never come again when there could
    be a unified graphical technology and programmer toolbox for MS and Apple.\r\n\r\nWhat
    a pity! It was so close!"
  created: '2008-08-04 20:09:43'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "When this old discussion was revived I read all of it and was a bit surprised
    how DecoType's ACE was completely misunderstood. I consider one misreading as
    particularly serious because it obscures ACE's biggest advantage compared to OT.\r\n\r\nIn
    a couple of comments throughout this discussion I see this inference at work:\r\n(1)
    \"Complex script\" OT fonts are hard to make, &amp; slow in performance when used.\r\n(2)
    ACE fonts do (for OT-trained minds like mine) even more \"complex\" things.\r\n(3)
    Hence ACE fonts must be harder to make, and performance must be worse.\r\nThis
    were true if -- as implied by an unspoken premise -- ACE's layout logic were identical
    with OT's layout logic. But this is <em>not</em> the case. Unlike OT layout tables,
    ACE is built on a few simple (albeit \"meta\") ideas and has a clean, straightforward
    mechanism, the most elegant one I have seen so far.\r\n\r\nGiven this, another
    conclusion, though meant to be praise, is almost an insult:\r\nUse OT for everyday
    stuff that does not need much sophistication, and reserve ACE for high-end typesetting
    with all bells and whistles.\r\nAgain, this is a conclusion that is drawn from
    experience with <em>OpenType</em> layout technology, which indeed suggests --
    whenever \"extras\" are not required -- to reduce complexity of features to avoid
    performance issues (and keep production efforts at a reasonable level). Since
    ACE is a very clean and simple architecture, making this distinction between less
    and more sophisticated/complex fonts does not make sense. For ACE, it just does
    not matter if there are a few alternates less or more. And the tricks it does
    with attachments are applied to very simple fonts as well as very complex ones.
    No difference there.\r\n\r\nI even wonder if talk about \"complex\" fonts originated
    in an OT environment -- because OT layout table logic <em>makes</em> some things
    complicated. OT layout tables have a big problem: their \"simplicity\". They literally
    scratch on the surface -- they try to <em>mimic</em> a script's <em>appearance</em>
    by accounting for every single tiny adjustment needed to achieve this appearance.
    E.g. by minutely defining that this mark must be attached to this base at this
    coordinate. This is evidently simple (in terms of \"common sense\") but does not
    account for the fact that some scripts require so many of these tiny adjustments,
    which even need to interact which each other, that it is suicidal to mimic \"complex\"
    layout behavior on the level of tiny adjustments.\r\nACE in contrast digs deep
    into the structure of a script, and rather than accounting for this or that tiny
    adjustment, it sets out with some very global observations about layout behavior,
    e.g. it knows that there are base glyphs, to which marks need to attach -- somehow.
    Btw, Milo explains all ideas behind ACE in his papers.\r\n\r\nRegarding Nadine
    Chahine's comment \"one does not need complex technology to make good Arabic typefaces\",
    this seems true. Yet I think it should not be a type designer's technical competence
    that determines whether he <em>can</em> make this or that kind of typeface. Since
    there is no difference between simple and complex in ACE, it is the design that
    decides what it needs, not the designer's technical competence.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2008-08-11 23:50:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "http://www.maplandia.com/turkmenistan/chardzhou/mamash/\r\n\r\nAny turcologist
    could have told you.\r\n\r\nThomas Milo\r\nDecoType\r\nwww.decotype.com"
  created: '2008-08-13 13:06:04'
- author:
    name: gohebrew
    picture: 112525
  body: "Thomas,\r\n\r\nHey, that's not the \"mamash\" I meant.\r\n\r\nI doubt if
    any turcologist would know the Hebrew meanings of \"mamash\".\r\n\r\n===\r\n\r\nSeriously,
    though, could Ace technology be used for (Biblical) Hebrew where sophisticated
    contextual replacement would solve certain obstacles that seem to be beyond the
    scope of OpenType? Such as a string of 9 glyphs (or less) needs to be replaced
    either by a devoted ligature or be a different set instructions on how the 9 glyphs
    or less should be handled."
  created: '2008-08-17 07:31:47'
- author:
    name: Thomas Milo
    picture: 113426
  body: "John wrote earlier:\r\n\r\n\"What OpenType cannot do is the kind of thing
    Tom Milo is doing with his Arabic engine, but then no previous Arabic typesetting
    system has been able to do what Tom is doing, which is to directly model both
    the rules and the order of the classical calligraphic styles. \"\r\n\r\nThis is
    not correct. We set out to emulate what Middle Eastern typographers were able
    to do. All Middle Eastern typography was focused on direct modeling of the classical
    calligraphic styles, nothing less. Quite specifically, we were inspired by a personal
    document written and typeset by Ohanis M\xFChendiso\u011Flu in which he explains
    and proves how he did it.\r\n\r\nElsewhere on typophile I placed images of M\xFChendiso\u011Flu's
    naskh and (nas)ta\u02BFl\u012Bq typefaces that unambiguously prove his: he directly
    modeled both the rules and the order of the classical calligraphic styles.\r\n\r\nM\xFChendiso\u011Flu's
    naskh became the mother of all naskh typefaces. In the Aramco World article about
    Tasmeem, you can find illustrations how he inadvertently left an idiosyncrasy
    in his design that can be found in practically all later Western naskh typefaces.
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-28 15:31:05'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Where does thia quote come from? I do not see it in the text here.
  children:
  - author:
      name: khalid
      picture: 121506
    body: ACE, Arabic Composition Engine?
    created: '2015-03-26 06:14:00'
  created: '2015-03-23 11:39:50'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Of course I would miss it. Go fig.
  created: '2015-03-26 11:11:57'
- author:
    name: Maya4
  body: 'I am working on a project of parking. What would be the technical suggestions
    for this topic? You can take the reference from  http://www.bestmeetandgreetgatwick.co.uk/   '
  created: '2015-04-21 15:28:48'
date: '2005-12-16 22:23:10'
title: Critiques of the OpenType format?

---
