---
author:
  name: dan_reynolds
  picture: 110440
body: "When comparing the \"superiors\" feature with the \"fractions\" feature in
  a number of OpenType fonts from Adobe and Linotype (and others?), some questions
  arise. Specifically, in the superior glyph range, why do letters have a different
  baseline from numbers and punctation? This is not the case with glyphs covered by
  the fractions feature.\r\n\r\nHere are some examples illustrated:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/superior-numbers-and-letter.jpg]\r\nSuperior
  numbers have a higher baseline than superior letters. Why? (Illustrated above: [normal
  capital H], [superior 1], [superior 2], [superior 2], [superior 3], [superior a],
  [superior b], [normal lowercase c])\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/superior-letters-and-puntua.jpg]\r\nWhat
  this leads to, is impossible typography, as pictured above. The period should have
  the same baseline as the superior letter, no? Instead, it has the baseline of the
  numbers.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fraction-numbers.jpg]\r\nFraction
  numbers are larger than superior numbers. This is understandable.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Fraction-numbers-and-letter.jpg]\r\nFraction
  numbers and letters share a common baseline. This seems to make typographic sense.
  Why here and not with superiors?\r\n\r\nCould this have something to do with a legacy
  work-around? If a type designer, or major type foundry, were to change this, would
  it cause any problems? Are there users who expect the superior feature to be defined
  in this manner?"
comments:
- author:
    name: DDD1988Redux-spammer
    picture: 125705
  body: "Aside from over 14,900+ fonts that are under the following 9 stylistic genres
    (which can either be blackletter, modern, flare, slab, geometrical, roman, decorative,
    sans-serif or script), SoftMaker is finally creating two families worth of over
    50 symbol fonts - both of which are appearing on two of SoftMaker's premium-quality
    typeface collections - \"MegaFont XXL 3.0\" (for home users) and \"infiniType
    4\" (for designers) - both being released in May 27, 2014.\r\n\r\nSoftMaker's
    entire 50-font \"Dingbats & Math Pi\" family, which includes \"Commercial & News
    Pi\" (an actual clone of Linotype's Universal News & Commercial Pi), \"Greek &
    Math Pi\" (an actual clone of Linotype's Universal Math & Greek Pi), \"Iconic
    Dingbats\" (an actual clone of Zapf Dingbats by ITC, featuring multiple iconic
    sorts 'n' stuff as symbols), the entire \"Multi-National Sorts\" family (which
    features multinational characters each for the \"1\" style based on Helvetica,
    the \"2\" style based on Times Roman, the \"3\" style based on Courier, and the
    \"4\" style based on Century Schoolbook), the entire \"Tidbits\" family (an actual
    clone of Monotype Imaging's \"Wingdings\" family), and the entire \"Typographic
    Sorts\" family (which features typographic symbols as characters each for the
    \"1\" style based on Helvetica, the \"2\" style based on Times Roman, the \"3\"
    style based on Courier, and the \"4\" style based on Century Schoolbook), and
    all others.    The following 50 fonts, part of SoftMaker's \"Dingbats & Math Pi\"
    family, appear as its full list - in complete alphabetical order:\r\n\r\n\u2022\tBorders
    1\r\n\u2022\tBorders 2\r\n\u2022\tBorders 3\r\n\u2022\tBorders 4\r\n\u2022\tBullets
    1\r\n\u2022\tBullets 2\r\n\u2022\tBullets 3\r\n\u2022\tBullets 4\r\n\u2022\tCommercial
    & News Pi\r\n\u2022\tCommon Bullets 1\r\n\u2022\tCommon Bullets 2\r\n\u2022\tCommon
    Bullets 3\r\n\u2022\tCommon Bullets 4\r\n\u2022\tGreek & Math Pi\r\n\u2022\tIconic
    Dingbats\r\n\u2022\tIconic Sorts 1\r\n\u2022\tIconic Sorts 2\r\n\u2022\tIconic
    Sorts 3\r\n\u2022\tIconic Sorts 4\r\n\u2022\tMath A Pi\r\n\u2022\tMath B Pi\r\n\u2022\tMath
    C Pi\r\n\u2022\tMath Extended A Pi\r\n\u2022\tMath Extended B Pi\r\n\u2022\tMath
    Extended C Pi\r\n\u2022\tMulti-National Sorts 1\r\n\u2022\tMulti-National Sorts
    2\r\n\u2022\tMulti-National Sorts 3\r\n\u2022\tMulti-National Sorts 4\r\n\u2022\tOrnaments
    1\r\n\u2022\tOrnaments 2\r\n\u2022\tOrnaments 3\r\n\u2022\tOrnaments 4\r\n\u2022\tPhonetic
    A Pi\r\n\u2022\tPhonetic B Pi\r\n\u2022\tPhonetic C Pi\r\n\u2022\tPhonetic Extended
    A Pi\r\n\u2022\tPhonetic Extended B Pi\r\n\u2022\tPhonetic Extended C Pi\r\n\u2022\tStandard
    Symbols A Pi\r\n\u2022\tStandard Symbols B Pi\r\n\u2022\tStandard Symbols C Pi\r\n\u2022\tTidbits
    1\r\n\u2022\tTidbits 2\r\n\u2022\tTidbits 3\r\n\u2022\tTidbits 4\r\n\u2022\tTypographic
    Sorts 1\r\n\u2022\tTypographic Sorts 2\r\n\u2022\tTypographic Sorts 3\r\n\u2022\tTypographic
    Sorts 4\r\n\r\nSoftMaker's entire 50-font \"Special Symbols Pi\" family, which
    includes \"Geography\" (which features multiple geographic symbols), \"Military
    ID\" (which features multiple military ID symbols), \"Musical Notes\" (an actual
    clone of Adobe Sonata, featuring multiple musical notes as symbols), \"National
    Flags 1 & 2\" (the two fonts that feature multiple national flags as symbols),
    \"Shapes 1 & 2\" (the two fonts that feature multiple types of shapes as symbols,
    mostly from snowflakes to hearts for the \"1\" style and from stars to four-leaf
    clovers for the \"2\" style), \"Signs\" (which feature multiple indoor and outdoor
    signs as symbols), \"Technical\" (which features multiple symbols that also appear
    for technical use on any product), and all others.    The following 50 fonts,
    part of SoftMaker's \"Special Symbols Pi\" family, appear as its full list - in
    complete alphabetical order:\r\n\r\n\u2022\tAnimals 1\r\n\u2022\tAnimals 2\r\n\u2022\tAwards\r\n\u2022\tBalloons\r\n\u2022\tBoxes\r\n\u2022\tBuildings\r\n\u2022\tBusiness
    & Government\r\n\u2022\tCharting\r\n\u2022\tClocks\r\n\u2022\tComputers\r\n\u2022\tElectronics\r\n\u2022\tFestive\r\n\u2022\tFood
    & Drink\r\n\u2022\tFurniture\r\n\u2022\tGeography\r\n\u2022\tHolidays 1\r\n\u2022\tHolidays
    2\r\n\u2022\tHousehold\r\n\u2022\tHygiene\r\n\u2022\tLandmarks\r\n\u2022\tLandscape\r\n\u2022\tMedicine\r\n\u2022\tMilitary\r\n\u2022\tMilitary
    ID\r\n\u2022\tMorse Code\r\n\u2022\tMusic\r\n\u2022\tMusical Notes\r\n\u2022\tNational
    Flags 1\r\n\u2022\tNational Flags 2\r\n\u2022\tOffice\r\n\u2022\tParties & Decorations\r\n\u2022\tPeople\r\n\u2022\tPlants\r\n\u2022\tScience\r\n\u2022\tSemaphore\r\n\u2022\tShapes
    1\r\n\u2022\tShapes 2\r\n\u2022\tSign Language\r\n\u2022\tSpace\r\n\u2022\tSports
    & Hobbies\r\n\u2022\tSports Figures\r\n\u2022\tStars 1\r\n\u2022\tStars 2\r\n\u2022\tTechnical\r\n\u2022\tTechnology\r\n\u2022\tTools\r\n\u2022\tTracks\r\n\u2022\tTransportation\r\n\u2022\tWeather\r\n\r\nThese
    two font names are being part of SoftMaker's complete 15,000+-fonts standard typeface
    library, which'll finally appear on MegaFont XXL 3.0 and infiniType 4, both premium-quality
    typeface collections from SoftMaker.    These two font collections are being released
    around May 27, 2014."
  created: '2012-11-26 19:06:23'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Superior numbers have a higher baseline than superior letters. Why?</em>\r\n\r\nSuperior
    numbers are used to annotate text, while superior letters--as in your examples
    for Monsieur, Mademoiselle and Saint--are used as abbreviations with a stylistic
    flair. Superior text should line up at the tops of the letters with uppercase
    letters. Superior numbers are placed higher, I suspect, so that they can be more
    readily seen, since their function is not to continue the text, but to mark it.\r\n\r\nThe
    misplaced period, however is a mystery to me...someone didn't have their thinking
    cap on when they did this."
  created: '2005-12-19 13:54:43'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "But the superior numbers might need punctuation, too. What if a word references
    more that one footnote (e.g., success \xB9,\xB2), or has  decimal footnotes (e.g.,
    success \xB9.\xB2)? Both situations are typographically common, and should be
    available, shouldn't they? \r\n\r\nWhat if the numbers came down to the letters'
    baseline? Would they lose their readily-seeable quality? \r\n\r\nOr could the
    letters' baseline be raised up in this function, so that they could be used in
    footnotes (e.g., \"1a\" as a footnote). Could abbreviations be referenced by another
    feature, so that both numbers and letters could have proper punctuation?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: charles ellertson
    body: Why? Because people who design typefaces aren't the ones that have to use
      them. I keep saying that a working compositor has to be able to modify fonts
      in order to do his/her work; the imagination of authors knows little bounds.
    created: '2005-12-19 14:41:58'
  created: '2005-12-19 14:16:03'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> Superior numbers are used to annotate text, while \r\n> superior letters\u2014as
    in your examples for Monsieur, \r\n> Mademoiselle and Saint\u2014are used as abbreviations
    \r\n> with a stylistic flair.\r\n\r\nThis is a very simplistic and naiive view.
    I have just returned from Warsaw where I spoke with some typesetters who hate
    the fact that superscript letters and superscript figures have different baselines
    because in scientific publishing, both letters and figures are used to reference
    footnotes. In more complex scientific books, you often have two parallel kinds
    of footnotes, one being referenced with superscript numbers, the other being references
    with superscript letters. \r\n\r\nI strongly believe that one needs four kinds
    of small-sized \"alphabets\" in a font: \r\na) bottom visibly below baseline\r\nb)
    bottom equal with baseline\r\nc) top equal with caps height or ascender line\r\nd)
    top visibly above the caps height or ascender line\r\n\r\nThese small-sized alphabets
    should ideally include complete sets of figures, letters and puncuation. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately,
    the OpenType specification is extremely messy. It provides two features for small-sized
    characters that are located at the bottom (\"sinf\" for the \"a\" set and \"subs\"
    for the \"b\" set) but only one, extremely ambiguous feature for small-sized characters
    that are located at the top (\"sups\"). The \"sups\" feature tries to unifies
    glyphs that are used for completely different purpose. Its description reads:
    \r\n\r\n\"Replaces lining or oldstyle figures with superior figures (primarily
    for footnote indication), and replaces lowercase letters with superior letters
    (primarily for abbreviated French titles).\"\r\n\r\nThe denotations \"superior
    figures\" and \"superior letters\" are vague. The designers of the OpenType spec
    failed to recognize that the typesetting practice needs both figures and letters
    is the \"d\" set form (placed above the the ascender/caps height line), which
    are used to denote footnotes, and also needs letters in the \"c\" set that are
    aligned at the top of caps height/ascender line, or sometimes even located below.
    \r\n\r\nIn addition, the OpenType spec defines the \"ordn\", \"numr\" and \"dnom\"
    features that have somewhat similar purposes. \r\n\r\nFrench, Spanish and Latin
    languages often makes use of elevated small-sized glyphs within the text. The
    French titles (Mssr), the Latin ordinals (2o for secundo), the French ordinals
    (7\xE9me) all require for elevanted small-sized glyphs that visibly belong to
    the text, so they are located at the top or even slightly below the caps height.
    This has NOTHING to do with the small-sized superscript glyphs (both figures and
    letters) used in footnote references or mathematical expressions. It escapes me
    why there is a \"sups/subs\" feature pair intended for textual use but there is
    only one \"sinf\" feature intended for scientific use. A \"ssup\" feature paired
    with \"sinf\" and representing the \"d\" set should have been be defined in the
    OpenType spec years ago instead of overloading the \"sups\" feature with two distinctly
    different-purpose uses. The problem that Dan touched on is clearly an exemplification
    of that. \r\n\r\nI think the textual use of the \"sups\" feature should be deprecated
    and moved to a separate feature. Either a new feature should be registered, or
    the use should be moved to another feature, e.g. the \"ordn\" feature that should
    be implemented in a simplified way.  \r\n\r\nBelow is the recommendation that
    I can make to the font developers: \r\n\r\n\r\n1. Scientific subscript glyphs
    (\"a\" set)\r\n\r\n1.1. Design a full set of small-sized glyphs (figures, uppercase
    and lowercase English letters, punctuation, even accented letters) that are placed
    below the baseline (e.g. so that the vertical centre of the scientific inferior
    \"x\" is just above the the baseline). Use the glyph name suffix \".sinf\" for
    them, e.g. \"one.sinf\", \"a.sinf\" etc.\r\n\r\n1.2. Define a class \"sinf1\"
    with the basic forms that correspond to these glyphs (i.e. \"one\", \"a\" etc.)
    and a class \"sinf2\" with the  .sinf glyphs. \r\n\r\n1.3. Define the \"sinf\"
    feature: \r\n\r\nfeature sinf { \r\nsub @sinf1 by @sinf2; \r\n} sinf; \r\n\r\nThese
    glyphs can be also used as part of the afrc (\"nut fraction\") feature. \r\n\r\n\r\n2.
    Text subscript glyphs (\"b\" set)\r\n\r\n2.1. Design a full set of small-sized
    glyphs (figures, uppercase and lowercase English letters, punctuation, even accented
    letters) that are placed ON the baseline. Use the glyph name suffix \".subs\"
    for them, e.g. \"one.subs\", \"a.subs\" etc. These glyphs may be slightly larger
    than the scientific subscript glyphs. \r\n\r\n2.2. Define a class \"subs1\" with
    the basic forms that correspond to these glyphs (i.e. \"one\", \"a\" etc.) and
    a class \"subs2\" with the  .subs glyphs. \r\n\r\n2.3. Define the \"subs\" feature:
    \r\n\r\nfeature subs { \r\nlookup subs1 { \r\nsub @subs1 by @subs2; \r\n} subs1;
    \r\n} subs; \r\n\r\nThese glyphs can be also used as denominators in the dnom
    feature\r\n\r\nfeature dnom { \r\nlookup subs1; \r\n} dnom; \r\n\r\nand as part
    of the frac feature. \r\n\r\n\r\n3. Text superscript glyphs (\"c\" set)\r\n\r\n3.1.
    Design a full set of small-sized glyphs (figures, uppercase and lowercase English
    letters, punctuation, even accented letters) that are of the same size as the
    text subscript glyphs, placed so that the top of the \"h\" is at the the ascender
    line or the caps height. Use the glyph name suffix \".ordn\" for them, e.g. \"one.ordn\",
    \"a.ordn\" etc. \r\n\r\n3.2. Define a class \"ordn1\" with the basic forms that
    correspond to these glyphs (i.e. \"one\", \"a\" etc.) and a class \"ordn2\" with
    the  .sinf glyphs. \r\n\r\n3.3. Define the \"ordn\" feature without using any
    contextual lookups: \r\n\r\nfeature ordn { \r\nlookup ordn1 { \r\nsub @ordn1 by
    @ordn2; \r\n} ordn1; \r\n} ordn; \r\n\r\nThese glyphs can be also used as numerators
    in the numr feature\r\n\r\nfeature numr { \r\nlookup ordn1; \r\n} numr; \r\n\r\nand
    in the frac feature. \r\n\r\n4. Scientific superscript glyphs (\"d\" set)\r\n\r\n3.1.
    Design a full set of small-sized glyphs (figures, uppercase and lowercase English
    letters, punctuation, even accented letters) of the same size as the sinf glyphs,
    placed so that the vertical centre of the scientific superior \"h\" is slightly
    below the caps height. Use the glyph name suffix \".sups\" for them, e.g. \"one.sups\",
    \"a.sups\" etc. \r\n\r\n3.2. Define a class \"sups1\" with the basic forms that
    correspond to these glyphs (i.e. \"one\", \"a\" etc.) and a class \"sups2\" with
    the  .sups glyphs. \r\n\r\n3.3. Define the \"sups\" feature: \r\n\r\nfeature sups
    { \r\nsub @sups1 by @sups2; \r\n} sups; \r\n\r\nThese glyphs can also be used
    in the afrc feature. \r\n\r\n\r\n5. Map the text and scientific variants as stylistic
    alternates and sets for each other: \r\n\r\nfeature ss01 { \r\nsub @sups2 by @ordn2;
    \r\nsub @subs2 by @sinf2; \r\n} ss01; \r\n\r\nfeature ss02 { \r\nsub @ordn2 by
    @sups2; \r\nsub @sinf2 by @subs2; \r\n} ss02; \r\n\r\nfeature salt { \r\nsub @sups2
    by @ordn2; \r\nsub @subs2 by @sinf2; \r\nsub @ordn2 by @sups2; \r\nsub @sinf2
    by @subs2; \r\n} salt; \r\n\r\n-- Adam\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-19 15:07:53'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Thank you Adam, I think this article should be stored in the wiki.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    if group shares the same glyphs it should be possible to use \r\nthe pos command
    to move the glyphs up and down instead of creating new glyphs. \r\n\r\npos [glyphs]
    (0 80 0 0);  right?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-19 16:21:52'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hi Dan,\r\n\r\nI think size and positioning also varies from typeface to
    typeface, and foundry to foundry. Is your sample representative of other typefaces?\r\n\r\n\r\nHallo
    Herr Twardoch,\r\n\r\nthis is a nice solution. But I feel uncomfortable about
    using ssXX features for this.\r\nThe definitions for sups/sinf and numr/dnom are
    unfortunate indeed, they completely confuse text and mathematical contexts. Is
    the subs feature (with a \"b\") supported by applications right now? Also, I cannot
    remember having seen it in any font.\r\n\r\nAs to size and positioning, are different
    sets of superior/inferior numerals really a solution? I think, only in case that
    true mathematical superior/inferior features have been defined. \r\nI have in
    mind another aspect. Someone told me he prefers mathematical superiors which are
    a bit larger than those used to indicate footnotes in text. So, I would suggest
    to modulate these details, size and positioning, by using character styles in
    the layout applications. (Similarly, styles can address typographers' preferences
    for larger or smaller SCs in all small caps setting ...) \r\nSpeaking as a type
    designer: I am convinced that it is my job to care for, and anticipate, as many
    typographic contexts as possible, and am upset when I find out that others don't
    do their job properly. But speaking as a typographer: There are things that I
    want to care for myself. Using character styles is the easiest way.\r\n\r\nMy
    personal conclusion so far, with the features currently supported in mind, is:
    adjust numerals and characters for text context, so as footnote indices first
    of all. Real mathematical setting is a special issue which might require special
    fonts because even well equipped OTFs don't have all glyphs necessary.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I wonder if numr/dnom better be kicked out of fonts. frac does not need them.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2005-12-19 16:45:24'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>But the superior numbers might need punctuation, too. What if a word
    references more that one footnote (e.g., success \xB9,\xB2), or has decimal footnotes
    (e.g., success \xB9.\xB2)? Both situations are typographically common, and should
    be available, shouldn\u2019t they?</em>\r\n\r\nNa\xEFvely and simplisticly, I
    think you solve the problem as best you can, depending on the program you're using.
    If it's a word-processing program, type the numbers-with-punctuation, then na\xEFvely
    and simplisticly format them as superscript. In a page composition program, you
    could use the actual superscript characters, then na\xEFvely and simplisticly
    baseline-shift the punctuation up. Or not...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-19 17:47:41'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Na\xEFvely and simplisticly\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nIsn't OpenType supposed
    to save users these work-a-rounds? "
  created: '2005-12-19 18:47:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "From a practical point of view, I think this situation would seem to push
    fonts in two different directions.\r\n\r\nFirstly, I think that what Adam has
    proposed is spot on, and I have found myself heading in that direction, as I added
    more and more characters to superior and inferior sets.\r\n\r\nBut it is horribly
    messy to proliferate like this when you also have four different sets of figures!\r\n\r\nSo
    I believe that a sensible course would be to provide two kinds of mega font, one
    which proliferates the superior/inferior alphanumerics, and one which proliferates
    the figure categories. \r\n\r\nReally, shouldn't a scientific font have only one
    set of figures: tabular lining?\r\n\r\nOr can we expect to see the typical Pro
    font of the future, as bundled by MS and Adobe, containing tends of thousands
    of glyphs supporting full figure variants, full superior/inferior variants, with
    full language support (poly Greek + Cyrillic), with small caps and swash features
    -- and all this in a range of optical sizes and several weights. Yes, Minion Pro
    2009!"
  created: '2005-12-19 18:58:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Yes, Minion Pro 2009!\"\r\n\r\nWith all that stuff, wouldn't it have be
    called:\r\n \"Minion Super-Duper All Pro Fruit of Thy Womb Adobe\"?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-19 19:45:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Sergey Malkin (Microsoft Typography) and I have been discussing the need for
    a mathematical or scientific superiors feature. When used for exponent values,
    superior numerals should be higher than superior letters (hence what you observe
    in some fonts); however, there is a need also for aligning superior letters and
    numerals (which is why I do not raise my 'sups' numerals so high). The distinction
    is exactly the same as that between 'subs' and 'sinf', and we need a superior
    feature that corresponds to the latter.
  created: '2005-12-19 20:22:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">the need for a mathematical or scientific superiors feature.\r\n\r\nThe
    numerator feature can provide this, sort of, but as its name suggests it is only
    for figures.\r\n\r\nGoing by Adam's suggestion of four separate fully-charactered
    \"mini-fonts\" it would appear that presently we have two superior features --
    superiors and numerators, and two inferior features -- scientific inferiors and
    denominators.\r\n\r\nHere's how I'm presently using them: the nut fractions are
    activated by the fraction feature (making them the default, not the \"afrc\" alternative),
    made from superiors and inferiors. The \"regular\" fractions are activated using
    numerators and denominators.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fractions.jpg]\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    it would have been better to have come up with a different naming system: logically
    it would be: large superiors, small superiors, large inferiors, small inferiors.
    Or some such thing.\r\n\r\nBut it is too late now, ennit?!"
  created: '2005-12-19 21:33:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sounds like the Superior solution Nick :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-19 23:11:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'A mathematical feature would also be good for replacing x''s by multiply,
    dash by minus, and quote marks by inches/degree of arc. '
  created: '2005-12-19 23:44:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>the nut fractions are activated by the fraction feature (making them
    the default, not the \u201Cafrc\u201D alternative), made from superiors and inferiors.
    The \u201Cregular\u201D fractions are activated using numerators and denominators.</em>\r\n\r\nMeaning
    that the 'regular' fractions may never be seen in many applications. The 'numr'
    and 'dnom' features only exist because Adobe originally designed a large and cumbersome
    three-feature implementation for making fractions. I showed them how to do it
    with one feature instead, but by that time they had chosen to reveal the 'numr'
    and 'dnom' features in their application UI (bizarrely, considering the original
    intent of these features, which did not require user interaction). But I doubt
    if many other developers will follow suit: the features look obsolete, and the
    existing description does not suggest that they needed to be exposed to the user
    anyway. Only someone copying Adobe's implementation is likedly to expose them."
  created: '2005-12-20 02:38:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>A mathematical feature would also be good for replacing x\u2019s by multiply,
    dash by minus, and quote marks by inches/degree of arc.</em>\r\n\r\nThese are
    character level concerns, not something that one should try to resolve at the
    glyph display level. The letter x is not \xD7 and the latter should not be encoded
    as the former. Characters have semantics and properties. If someone case mapping
    to a string of characters that includes a x posing as \xD7, you get X in the text
    string but might not even know it if you are seeing something that looks like
    \xD7. Or how about if you have a string that includes a variable x and an exponent
    value: you don't want a generic 'Mathematic Forms' features displaying the variable
    as \xD7 when trying to get the exponent value to be the right size and position."
  created: '2005-12-20 02:46:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Meaning that the \u2018regular\u2019 fractions may never be seen in many
    applications.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, it's a choice on my part that when you use this
    font, you get nut fractions as standard.\r\nThe three pre-built fraction glyphs
    are that way too.\r\nGiven that it's more complicated for users to make numerator+denominator
    fractions (two 3rd-level menu clicks in InD, rather than one), I wanted to make
    it easier for them to get the nuts.\r\n\r\nI didn't know the story. I'm just working
    with the basic features that show in InD, in CS1, as my benchmark. Lacking the
    presence of the \"afrc\" feature in the InD OpenType menu, it makes sense to me
    to use the \"numr\" and \"dnom\" features to give users access to an alternate
    fraction form.\r\n\r\n<em>...you don\u2019t want a generic \u2018Mathematic Forms\u2019
    features displaying the variable as \xD7 when trying to get the exponent value
    to be the right size and position.</em>\r\n\r\nGood point. I guess I was thinking
    more of a \"math forms lite\", for simple access to the basic math operators,
    like when you're doing a lumber catalog and you have product dimensions of 2\"
    x 4\". It's always struck me as a self-indulgence of the computer industry that
    Minus and Multiply are not on the North American keyboard -- but the ASCII tilde
    and ASCII circumflex are. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-12-20 05:44:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I'll just add that there are deliberately two fraction features, and using
    one to mean the other is doing a real disservice to your users. Please, bug people
    to support the 'afrc' feature. If you really want nut fractions to work today
    in InDesign, use a stylistic set on top of 'frac' as well as putting them in 'afrc'
    - but don't lie about your features. Everybody hacking features in crazy ways
    will tend to create chaos.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-12-20 09:35:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have been looking at my daughter's old Calculus book (for typographic reasons
    only) and seeing some complex math issues that make me wonder how much an OTF
    font can do and how much a real math setting program is required. I know very
    little about higher math so I am unable to do right by it as a type designer.
    Where do we draw the line for math features? As Nick said, \u201Cmath forms lite\u201D
    and what would it be?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 17:55:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...but don\u2019t lie about your features. Everybody hacking features
    in crazy ways will tend to create chaos.</em>\r\n\r\nDon't mistake what seems
    obvious to you for the truth.\r\nIt is not my intention to mislead people.\r\nWhen
    I release the face, it will come with a PDF, and perhaps a printed piece for purchasers,
    which will list and explains the features.\r\n\r\nAs for chaos, think of my nutty
    fraction as one small antidote to the MicroDobia mindset that seeks to button
    down the whole planet -- standards are good, but one can have too much of a good
    thing. Besides, methinks it somewhat disingenuous of you to protest about chaos
    after enabling the foundry community with such a sprawling toolbox of OT features!
    \ \r\n\r\nTo me, the choice of fraction style is no different than, say, the choice
    of \"a\" or \"g\" variant -- who is to say that one form is standard and relegate
    the other to a stylistic set? I believe that the foundry should choose the variant
    that it thinks is appropriate to the typeface.\r\n\r\nAlbany is a very close revival
    of a specific face from an 1869 scientific work. All the fractions in the book
    are nut fractions, and what is now the \"standard\" fraction would quite simply
    be \"slack\" and entirely inappropriate to this sort of modern typeface.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-20 18:18:14'
- author:
    name: bsleeper
  body: "I whole-heartedly agree with Adam Twardoch's suggested implementation, and
    it is consistent with my own practices in using type in designing papers. Although
    not semantically precise, the 'ordn' glyphs seem to share size, baseline, and
    some intuitive overlap with the letter forms used in abbrevations such as Mlle.
    Compare to the numero character or Nr. in German.\r\n\r\nNick Shinn's point that
    frac/afrc should be considered stylistic variants is also on the mark, and his
    example of Albany makes that point very clearly -- the form the designer chooses
    for the three fraction characters that are standard in the Latin-1 range (as well
    as the others in the Unicode 0x2150 range, if used) should determine which style
    goes in which feature. Even if standard slashed, rather than nut, fractions are
    considered normative, which form of the fraction should be implemented in the
    default 'frac' function depends entirely upon the face in question, not an arbitrary
    dictat by the specification authors. Let's not forget that type ultimately is
    design, not software.\r\n\r\nOK, off my high horse, I have what is perhaps a naive
    question: besides its potential equivalence to the 'dnom' set, for what typographic
    purposes are the small, baseline-level 'subs' alphabet generally used?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nBrent
    Sleeper"
  created: '2005-12-20 20:31:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "It's too bad we're off on this dumb tangent, because the original thread
    was pretty interesting and useful.\r\n\r\nBut lest anybody be taken in by Nick
    and Brent's specious logic, it's not \"<em>my</em> truth\" - it's in the OpenType
    spec in black and white.\r\n\r\nYes, both forms of fractions are stylistic variants
    of the general concept of fraction. And, despite the bias in the spec's names
    for the two kinds of fractions, each is an independent layout feature. Which style
    goes with which feature is defined in the OT spec. I pointed out how Nick could
    make things work the way he wants completely within the OpenType spec. If a couple
    of vendors want to make broken fonts, that's their problem. Too bad they'll be
    making it their customers' problem, too.\r\n\r\nThis feels as silly as saying
    that because you want to make the default figures in your font oldstyle figures,
    you're going to reverse the coding of the oldstyle and lining features, so people
    will get the figures you want instead of the figures they want, when they invoke
    a specific figure style.\r\n\r\nIf people want to change the spec, that's cool.
    Get involved with the ISO process and you can have as much say as anybody else
    in the new Open Font Format, the ISO equivalent of OpenType, which is starting
    from OpenType 1.4.\r\n\r\nI'm especially entertained by the argument that boils
    down to \"features are confusing, and it's all Adobe and Microsoft's fault for
    making them, so we might as well use them for whatever they want because it's
    confusing anyway.\"\r\n\r\nOh, and if you feel you must lower the level of the
    argument by using phrases like \"MicroDobia mindset that seeks to button down
    the whole planet,\" feel free. it won't stop me from trying to deal with actual
    issues. I'll continue to bite my tongue when witty counter-insults spring to mind.\r\n\r\nSigh,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-12-21 00:20:25'
- author:
    name: bsleeper
  body: "You're right, Thomas -- Dan Reynold's original question really is the interesting
    part of this thread, so I hope the discussion about the typography itself (rather
    than the OpenType tangent) continues.\r\n\r\nOn completely red-herring-flavored
    note, the Unicode spec makes clear that all of the precomposed fractions (0x00BC-0x00BE
    and 0x2153-0x215F) can take either the nut or vulgar form, without affecting their
    semantic value. I add this only to note that the actual glyphs in a font can take
    whichever form the designer wants, regardless of whether or not it also is appropriate
    to misapply the frac/afrc features.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nBrent Sleeper"
  created: '2005-12-21 01:07:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Chris, you need a dedicated layout engine to do math typesetting properly.
    MS Office 12, now in beta so I guess I can talk about it, includes a new equation
    editor, math engine and also a special math font, based on Jelle Bosma's CT font
    Cambria and called Cambria Math, which Tiro built for MS. I can't talk about any
    of the details of how the math layout engine and font work, but it is very complicated
    and only a small portion of what needs to be done is handled via OpenType Layout
    tables.
  created: '2005-12-21 03:01:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks John. I guess the under part of my question is what should I do as
    a type designer to make type usable to people. I realize the real math intense
    stuff is a very specialized (perhaps small?) segment of type users. I still want
    to be sure that type I produce will be usable by not only ordinary publishing
    software, but specialized math software as well.  I at least I don't want to make
    problems. That is why the math issue seems important. I don't know who was involved
    in setting up the opentype standards.  I assume some math type users must have
    had a say. Did what came out of it all seem to solve the problem?  Is it an issue
    of just using the standards in their simplest way or should we look for more creative
    solutions within the standards?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-21 03:39:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Specialised math software requires specialised maths fonts. It really is
    a very distinct market, and the majority of fonts simply are not of any use for
    typesetting mathematics. Similarly, a dedicated maths font may not be suitable
    for typical publishing needs, because of mathematicians' preferences vis a vis
    glyph shape and spacing.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, there is a subsection of mathematical
    symbols that may be encountered in non-maths text, e.g. basic arithmetic symbols,
    exponents (superior numerals), and also symbols or special usages of characters
    from other sciences, such as the inferior numerals used in chemistry, e.g. CF\u2082Cl\u2082.
    So it makes sense to cater to preferred display of these, but there is no catch-all
    solution. I think the examples Dan shows at the beginning of this thread, with
    superior numerals and letters misaligned and of different optical weights, are
    a mistake; but then I make fonts for humanities scholarship, in which one needs
    aligned superior numerals and letters for apparatus critici. I'm aware that the
    positioning I use for these may be considered too low for exponent values by mathematicians.
    Hence what I see as the need for a feature to distinguish regular superior glyphs
    from mathematic superior glyphs, in the same way that the 'sinf' feature distinguishes
    scientific inferiors from... well, actually from something that doesn't really
    have a conventional use: little letters sitting on the baseline, according to
    the feature description (this is why I use the same glyphs for both 'sinf' and
    'subs'). This is what is known as irony: we have two distinguishing features where
    we don't need them, and lack them where we do need them.\r\n\r\nBy the way, a
    maths typesetting system would probably ignore all this. There would be optically
    scaled variants for use at super- and subscript sizes, and also smaller versions
    still for superscript applied to superscript in equations, but the positioning
    of these would be determined by the layout engine.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-21 06:01:04'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I concur with John - math typesetting is remarkably complex, and most of
    it is beyond what is reasonably going to be handled in the font infrastructure.\r\n\r\nAnother
    way of thinking about this is to consider math typesetting as a \"complex script\"
    kind of language that is much more complicated than any other. The layout engine
    needs to know all about this language in order to deal with it correctly, and
    what the font supplies is only a small part of this.\r\n\r\nNow, that being said,
    there are certainly issues of what characters a hard-core math font should have,
    and how they should be designed, etc. Johannes Kuester has given some interesting
    talks on this at various conferences. Some of his presentations and others are
    saved here:\r\nhttp://www.tug.org/twg/mfg/ (one suspects that some of the content
    on this site might be TeX-specific, but a lot of it looks pretty broadly useful
    at first blush)\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-12-21 06:03:16'
- author:
    name: bsleeper
  body: "I can second Thomas' recommendation of the TUG Math Font Group and Johannes
    K\xFCster as good places to start. K\xFCster's presentations are targeted at designers
    and touch on a lot of key design issues, such as clear differentation among significant
    glyphs, relative sizes and forms of operators, etc. (BTW, the archival source
    of the documents is at <a href=\"http://www.typoma.com/en/publications.html\">Typoma</a>.)\r\n\r\nAlso,
    check out the American Mathematical Society. Working with the TeX community (which
    is predominantly mathematicians), AMS has established well-defined character repertoire.
    The set of <a href=\"http://www.ams.org/tex/type1-fonts.html\">official AMS math
    fonts</a> might be useful to study for illustrative purposes. An interesting piece
    of the AMS set is the Euler family, designed and donated by the indomitable Hermann
    Zapf. Donald Knuth writes about working with Zapf on this project in his book
    <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/redirect?path=ASIN/1575860104&amp;tag=bsleeper\">Digital
    Typography</a>.\r\n\r\nAnother well-regarded math family is Charles Bigelow and
    Kris Holmes' Lucida series; TeX-compatible extensions to both Lucida serif and
    Lucida Bright are available. I believe Adobe sells the former, but the Bright
    math extensions have gone through a series of distributors. I think <a href=\"http://www.ascendercorp.com/\">Ascender</a>
    may be the current commercial distributor, but TUG also recently became a source
    for non-commercial licenses.\r\n\r\nBeyond the typography, the predominant technology
    issue for the past decade has been converting and integrating a complex set of
    legacy TeX encodings to Unicode. The Unicode Consortium has a <a href=\"http://www.unicode.org/reports/tr25/tr25-7.html\">technical
    memo</a> on their site that talks about some of the very basic issues. The TUG
    math working group has several much more detailed papers as well.\r\n\r\nJohn's
    observations about Office 12's math engine are interesting -- TeX has been the
    predominant approach to typesetting math papers for more than a decade. TeX is
    crufty but wonderful, too. Thomas' comparison of math layout to a complex, non-Latin
    script is very apt.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nBrent Sleeper\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-21 07:09:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...if you feel you must lower the level of the argument </em>\r\n\r\nSorry
    if I over-reacted Thomas, but I was upset at being accused of lying about my features.
    I'm just an indie font guy working on his first full-featured OpenType font, trying
    to make useful, unusual fonts, and trying to understand the complexities of the
    format.\r\n\r\nI've explained the typographic reason behind my choice of nut fractions
    as default.\r\nPerhaps I have made a mistake and misunderstood the way things
    work. But I am not attempting to deceive and create chaos. \r\n\r\n<em>If people
    want to change the spec, that\u2019s cool. Get involved with the ISO process and
    you can have as much say as anybody else in the new Open Font Format, the ISO
    equivalent of OpenType, which is starting from OpenType 1.4.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    know how the ISO process works, but I think all that would be necessary would
    be to get the feature names changed to \"diaf\" (diagonal fractin) and \"nutf\",
    as that's what they really are, and that's probably not worth the effort. \r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I don't think I'd want to get involved in that process. And if I don't, does that
    mean I have to make my fonts conform to it on every single spec? As I said, the
    non-conformity of the feature would be explained in the accompanying pdf/specimen.
    \r\n\r\nHowever, the spec might not be where my problem really is, as I will try
    to explain in the bottom paragraph below. \r\n\r\n<em>This feels as silly as saying
    that because you want to make the default figures in your font oldstyle figures,
    you\u2019re going to reverse the coding of the oldstyle and lining features, so
    people will get the figures you want instead of the figures they want, when they
    invoke a specific figure style. </em>\r\n\r\nYour simile is silly, because a figure
    style (either oldstyle or lining) is on by default, whereas a fraction style has
    to be applied -- the situation is quite different.\r\n\r\nThere are no oldstyle
    figures in Albany. It is a modern face, and moderns do not usually have oldstyle
    figures. I'm making the same kind of distinction with its fractions.\r\n\r\nIt
    wouldn't matter so much, if there were two fraction choices in the OpenType menu
    palette: Diagonal Fraction (corresponding to \"frac\"), and Nut Fraction (\"afrc\"),
    then the user could choose, and in Albany the \"Diagonal fraction\" menu item
    would be \"braced\" (not available).\r\nIf that was the case with CS InDesign,
    on which I base my font usability, then I would not be considering reversed coding.\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2005-12-21 08:17:13'
- author:
    name: bsleeper
  body: "Back to the original question about the height of superior numbers and letters...
    Late night trivia and/or pedantry for folks looking to make the next Grande font.\r\n\r\nLinguists
    use a very long list of superior small cap and superior miniscule letters (a smorgasbord
    of forms derived from Latin, Greek, Cyrillic, and the IPA) to indicate various
    phonetics. Most, but not all, of these are in Unicode (as \"modifier letters\").\r\n\r\nI
    would characterize them as meeting Adam Twardoch's category \"c\" -- their x-height
    generally aligns with the font's overall ascender height. The superior small caps
    are drawn to be visually identical in height to the superior miniscules. (This
    same x-height sizing rule also  is true for the non-superior/non-modifier small
    cap letters in phonetic use.)\r\n\r\nBrent Sleeper"
  created: '2005-12-21 08:27:49'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "But what is the outcome of this thread?\r\n\r\nI think A.T.'s suggestion
    for four small-sized alphabets of different vertical placement makes sense. It
    is a formal distinction first of all & does not specify whether a particular set
    of alphabets is for text or mathematical use. \r\nHowever, Mr Twardoch wrote:
    \"The denotations \u201Csuperior figures\u201D and \u201Csuperior letters\u201D
    are vague. The designers of the OpenType spec failed to recognize that the typesetting
    practice needs both figures and letters is the \u201Cd\u201D set form (placed
    above the the ascender/caps height line), which are used to denote footnotes,
    [...]\" \r\nPersonally I prefer the \"c\" set (top aligning with caps height)
    to denote footnotes. Obviously, typographic preferences matter. So it is to be
    decided whether these features should be distinguished by \"semantics\" (what
    are they to be used for, what is their meaning?) or by \"form\" (what is their
    vertical alignment like?). I opt for the latter, but would welcome any solution
    if it is only systematic. The feature names should reflect this. Remains the question
    if existing features should be merely redefined (esp. numr and dnom) for there
    already is some consensus as to vertical alignment, or new ones be defined.\r\nThat
    there is a need for clarification is out of question for me.\r\n\r\nfrac & afrc
    -- In case afrc will be supported at all in future, a more specific feature description
    were welcome. (E.g. what about nut fractions like 1/12? Is distribution of space
    in the numerator handled by layout engine or by feature?) If feature tag definitions
    would show another entry: feature is supported, features is likely to be supported,
    &c, many requests would be obsolete.\r\n\r\nThe real problem with OpenType features
    -- what are they to do, what is the layout engine to do -- seem to be communication.
    This bothers me. \r\n\r\nOn the other hand what we do is \"just fonts\". \r\n\r\nCheers,\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2005-12-21 11:36:25'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Karsten: Yes, the main issue with nut fractions is that it is rather difficult
    to figure out how to do complex or arbitrary fractions in that format. Adobe's
    default assumption has been that it has to be handled by the font, as one can
    with diagonal fractions. However, in my initial pondering, I'm having difficulty
    coming up with an approach to contextual programming that would be at all manageable.
    For instance, the overall width of the fraction is determined by the longer of
    the numerator or denominator, and that overall width also affects the positioning
    of all the digits of both the numerator and denominator. So the X-position of
    the first digit of the numerator is dependent on both the total fraction width
    and the number of additional digits in the numerator. I am reasonably sure this
    is technically solvable, but it would be some very lengthy code indeed, and would
    either involve an awful lot of additional characters or an awful lot of contextual
    positioning. My first off-the-cuff calculation is that allowing for, say, max
    six digits of numerator and denominator would require 116 variants or possible
    positionings for each digit, including both numerators and denominators. (Insert
    your own belief-system-appropriate request for luck or divine intervention.)\r\n\r\nNick:\r\n\r\nI
    wasn't trying to make it personal - let's try to keep this on the level of what
    will best serve the end user's needs. My take is that your proposal is to have
    the features of the font lie about what they are. It's really the font doing the
    lying, not you. And of course, lying can be perfectly ethical under certain circumstances.
    Whether and when it makes sense to have a font lie about the nature of its OT
    features is a tricky question. In fact, when and whether to use OT features or
    Unicode in such ways is a topic that I proposed for an upcoming type mini-conference
    (on which, more in the New Year).\r\n\r\nSo, your basic problem is that InDesign
    currently only supports 'frac' and you want your users to be able to get to 'afrc'-type
    glyphs easily. I suggested a work-around, but it was certainly more awkward than
    simply reversing the features.\r\n\r\nAs has come up before (and those who've
    heard this shtick can stop reading now), my own take on this is that it is almost
    always a Really Bad Idea to put bogus info into fonts to work around current application
    limitations. My main rationale for this is that your fonts will likely have a
    life-span of 15+ years, while app versions are frequently replaced. If in five
    years we are dealing with the bogus font info when the apps have been updated
    to handle the feature we were trying to hack around in the first place, then we
    can look forward to another 10+ years of living with that.\r\n\r\nOf course, fonts
    that are only intended for usage in a closed system, or that are sold by vendors
    who think they can simply upgrade all their customers to a new version when needed,
    are less troublesome in this regard.\r\n\r\nI recognize that there will be diverse
    opinions on the wisdom of font hacks to work around limitations of current applications.
    However, I also think it's important to be clear about what's going on when a
    font lies about its OT features or Unicode codepoints for some short-term gain.
    I realize that \"lie\" is a strong word, but I think it's appropriate to use for
    cases when a font is deliberately built with incorrect information or representations
    in it to achieve some specific goal. By \"incorrect\" here I mean \"clearly not
    complying with the relevant specification\" (OpenType or Unicode).\r\n\r\nFor
    an example of a font that lies about its Unicode encoding, and for understandable
    reasons (whether or not one thinks the reasons sufficient), I give you the dreaded
    pi/dingbat font. Or even a regular text font that has some added dingbats or logos.
    Nobody wants to put the company logo at some Unicode private use area codepoint
    that can't even be keyed? It seems so much easier to just put the logo in the
    slot for some symbol that the particular user/client/company doesn't care about,
    but is still keyboard-accessible. The same line of thinking is easily applied
    to dingbat/pi fonts.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-12-22 02:10:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Thomas, I agree with you in principle, but not in the real world. \r\n\r\nThere
    is zero likelihood that Adobe (or any other) layout applications would ever include
    the menu item \"nut fraction\".\r\n\r\nWhy give space to a feature that 99.9%
    of fonts don't support, that 99.9% of users would never use?\r\n\r\nAs long as
    layout applications offer \"fraction\" and even in the inconceivable event that
    they were to also offer \"alternate fraction\", my use of the fraction feature
    for nut fractions will make sense to the user, even if it doesn't comply with
    the spec 100%. You type \"figure-slash-figure,\" you highlight them, you select
    the OpenType \"Fraction\" feature, and you get a mathematically correct fraction.
    \r\n\r\n<em>...that are sold by vendors who think they can simply upgrade all
    their customers to a new version when needed</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not loading all my
    fonts with stuff that will be out of date the next round of layout app upgrades,
    which seems to be the implication. I just have this thing about nut fractions.
    What's the point of cultivating a fastidious and unpopular taste if I can't share
    it with kindred spirits?"
  created: '2005-12-22 05:13:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I just have this thing about nut fractions. What\u2019s the point of cultivating
    a fastidious and unpopular taste if I can\u2019t share it with kindred spirits?\"\r\n\r\nSometimes
    I feel like a nut...:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-22 05:41:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Nick wrote: <cite>There is zero likelihood that Adobe (or any other) layout
    applications would ever include the menu item \u201Cnut fraction\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    you're referring to the UI label for the feature, I expect that we'd call it a
    \"stacked fraction\" and rename the other kind \"diagonal fraction.\" I am quite
    certain that the likelihood of the feature appearing is higher than zero, but
    it may not be large, 'tis true. The only other typeface that I know to contain
    nut (stacked) fractions is Palatino Linotype. Does anyone know of others, or plan
    to develop them?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2005-12-22 06:30:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I\u2019m having difficulty coming up with an approach to contextual programming
    that would be at all manageable. </em>\r\n\r\nHere's my hack:\r\nI set my sights
    quite low, restricting the range for numerator and denominator to 1-99, and assuming
    that there would be no \"greater than one\" fractions. It required making two
    horizontal \"nut dash\" glyphs, one for single digit denominators, and one for
    double digit denominators. I also made an alternate set of numerators with extra
    sidebearings (@numr2), for use in situations such as 7/16. Some kerning was required
    to prevent the composite fraction from being too close to the adjacent full size
    figure.\r\n\r\nI fine-tuned the size and y position of the superior figures and
    scientific inferior figures to work in this feature; that's also a good size for
    them in other uses. And I co-ordinated the position of the em and en dashes, and
    math symbols, to centre vertically on the nut dash.\r\n\r\nFor fractions with
    more than two-digit numerators or denominators (such as are used to represent
    ratios) rather than use the fraction feature, typographers are advised to \"composit\"
    the fractions themselves, from sups, em dash (horizontally scaled) and sinfs,
    suitably kerned. You'd have to do that anyway, but at least with this system the
    component parts are all the right size and vertical position.\r\n\r\nfeature frac
    {\r\n \r\nsub @FIGURES' slash by @numr2;\r\nsub slash' @FIGURES @FIGURES by nut2;\r\nsub
    @FIGURES @numr2' nut2 by @sups;\r\nsub slash by nut;\r\nsub [nut2 nut] @FIGURES'
    by @sinf;\r\nsub @numr2' nut by @sups;\r\nsub @FIGURES' @numr2 by @sups;\r\nsub
    @sinf @FIGURES' by @sinf;\r\nsub @sups @numr2' by @sups;\r\n\r\n} frac;\r\n\r\nI
    didn't mind doing this extra figure work as I only have one set of figures in
    the typeface, tabular lining."
  created: '2005-12-22 08:20:15'
- author:
    name: John Nolan
    picture: 110529
  body: "Thomas:\r\nJustin Howe's Foundry Caslon features nut fractions, as does Carter's
    Big Caslon, Monticello and Galliard (CC version). Some of the old URW expert sets
    have nut fractions.\r\n\r\nOf course, only Foundry Caslon is available in OpenType."
  created: '2005-12-22 11:45:27'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I'm glad you found my summary useful. No claims for absolute correctness
    of course, just an attempt to clean the stuff up. \r\n\r\nAs for the scientific
    superiors feature (\"ssup\"), it is a good thought. You may have noticed that
    I used a terminological distinction \"text superscript/subscript\" and \"scientific
    superscript/subscript\" in my summary. Currently, we have four features (sups,
    subs, sinf, ordn) but of course the ordn feature isn't *really* an appropriate
    complement to the other ones. A clean pairing sups-subs, ssup-sinf would be useful.
    \r\n\r\nBTW, Johannes K\xFCster's presentations on typesetting maths are available
    at his own homepage: \r\nhttp://www.typoma.de/en/publications.html\r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-22 14:42:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nThanks for sharing your hack.  I'll have to try that.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-22 19:08:59'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I wrote about this in the last century. When the small letters usually are
    made to line with the ascenders, http://www.microsoft.com/typography/developers/fdsspec/lowercase.aspx\r\n\r\nThis
    makes the x-height lower than they would be for ordinals. (Spanish a, o). \r\n\r\nNumerals
    are usually for scientific notation alignment or shilling fraction alignment (baseline).
    There are many different positions for these and a one does all approach is difficult.\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-23 18:24:31'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "I was trying to find a scanned example from Geoffrey Dowding's Finer Points
    which includes nut fractions in-line with the running text (which look great)
    [Monotype Ehrhardt]. Then searching around a bit I noticed this, an alignment
    of the point I have not noticed before. As alignment of punctuation was mentioned
    in regard to ordinals I thought I would just add this in for typographic (rather
    than coding) flavour. This point punctuation are also used inside a table.\r\n\r\nAre
    these mid-points?\r\n\r\nFrom: Legros and Grant, Typographical Printing Surfaces
    p.163\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TPS_3540.png]\r\n\r\nCool ne?\r\n_________________________________\r\nMichael
    Hernan"
  created: '2009-07-27 00:06:35'
- author:
    name: Bhikkhu Pesala
    picture: 120325
  body: "I have also run into this conundrum when redesigning my font to add Ordinal
    and Superscript features. I see there is no consensus on this, and plenty of scope
    for proliferation. These are my conclusions so far for superscript glyphs to include
    in the font:\r\n\r\n1. Numbers should align with top of caps (with some overshoot
    for 0, 8, etc.)\r\n2. Include uppercase superscript glyphs A-Z.\r\n3. Letters
    (and ordinals) should use the baseline of superior \xB9\r\n4. Include basic punctuation:
    !%&(),-./;:?@[\\]\u201C\u201D \u2018\u2019\r\n5. Include at least \xC8\xE8 and
    \xDA\xFA for ordinals if not a full set for superscript text.\r\n6. A vertical
    scale factor of 60-65% seems to be about right.\r\n7. Stacking fractions should
    align with top and bottom of lining figures.\r\n\r\nI don't like the idea of including
    more than one set of small glyphs in the font \u2014 it is far too much work \u2014
    I already have Petite Caps and OldStyle Figures. \r\n\r\nI think it should be
    possible to define features using GPOS if one wants numerators, denominators,
    or subscripts (as well as scientific inferiors).\r\n\r\nThis is how I designed
    the ordinals feature (the Ordinals group includes A-Z, a-z, \xE8\xC8\xFA\xDA,
    and OldStyle Figures):\r\n\r\n<code>feature Ordinals ordn {\r\n    lookup Ordinals;\r\n}\r\n
    \   group @Ordinals [zero-nine uniE2C0-uniE2C9 uniEAA1 - uniEABA uniEAC1 - uniEADA
    uniEB28 uniEB3A uniEB48 uniEB5A];\r\n    group @Alphas [A-Z a-z Egrave Uacute
    egrave uacute];\r\n\r\n    lookup Ordinals{\r\n    context (@Ordinals) @Alphas;\r\n
    \   sub 0 Super;\r\n}  lookup Super {\r\n    sub [A-Z] -> [uniEAA1 - uniEABA];\r\n
    \   sub [a-z] -> [uniEAC1 - uniEADA];\r\n    sub Egrave -> uniEB28;\r\n    sub
    Uacute -> uniEB3A;\r\n    sub egrave -> uniEB48;\r\n    sub uacute -> uniEB5A;\r\n}</code>"
  created: '2010-10-22 13:02:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I've included superiors in a variety of types, and find it hard to generalize
    a set of principles that works for every kind of typeface.\r\nIn particular, x-height
    and whether ascenders are taller than cap-height have a lot of bearing on the
    matter.\r\n\r\nAm presently doing a slab serif face, and noticing that the superiors
    need to be quite large.\r\n\r\nThis highlights a key issue for superiors/inferiors:
    finding the sweet spot of weight and scale that makes them look like they belong
    in the same font as the normal glyphs, and do not seem to be either faux (shrunken)
    or a bolder style."
  created: '2010-10-22 17:03:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "While I think there is room for variance in the actual height of superscripts,
    I consider it very important that the superscript letters and numerals share the
    same alignment. Superscripts are used more frequently in academic publishing than
    anywhere else, and there are plenty of situations in which superscript letters
    and numerals are used together, e.g. in apparatus critici.\r\n\r\nSome academic
    publishing also calls for uppercase superiors, and I've found these to be a useful
    way of setting the superiors height. If you align the top of superior caps to
    the lowercase ascender height, everything else sort of falls into place, and you
    get superiors that work equally well for notes indices, ordinals, and apparatus
    symbols.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/brillsups_4474.png]"
  created: '2010-10-22 19:07:50'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "Since our shop mainly sets type -- but also modifies fonts (when the EULA
    allows of course), I've run into the conflicting needs for superiors with differing
    heights above the baseline.\r\n\r\nAs John recommends, if there is to be a full
    set of alpha-numerics, they should all have the same baseline. And I agree that
    aligning with the top of the ascender of a lower-case letter is the right height.\r\n\r\nBut
    rather than proliferating the font with repeated glyphs, when we encounter a use
    requiring a different height, we create another *character style* in the layout
    program and shift the baseline in that style. You can also scale them a bit in
    that character style, should that be needed.\r\n\r\nI understand the argument
    that not all text editors/layout programs permit this. But failing Unicode's desire
    to proliferate sets of superiors, or the OT spec proliferating features (neither
    of which I'd like to see), this seems the best way to work.\r\n\r\nPut simply,
    if the font designer can give a good set of superiors, having a common baseline,
    those of us who use type are well served. If the superiors have a different baselines,
    or are of a different nominal size, you make our life quite difficult -- enough
    so that I'll go into the font and fix it."
  created: '2010-10-22 20:23:53'
- author:
    name: Bhikkhu Pesala
    picture: 120325
  body: "Charles said: \r\n\r\n\u201CI agree that aligning with the top of the ascender
    of a lower-case letter is the right height.\u201D \r\n\r\nI initially inclined
    towards using this alignment too, but decided that since my fonts include capital
    ordinals for setting with All Caps text, that top of caps alignment (and therefore
    top of figure alignment), works best. \r\n\r\nDeciding on just how many glyphs
    to support is hard as my fonts include full support for Latin Extended Additional.
    Thus far I have decided on most of Latin 1 Supplement, and a few from Latin Extended
    A and Additional that I need for Pali/Sanskrit. Including the full set of Latin
    (and Greek) glyphs for Superscripts/Ordinals would be way too much work. \r\n\r\n[[http://homepage.ntlworld.com/pesala/clipboard/Garava%20Ordinals.png|Garava
    Ordinals]]"
  created: '2010-10-23 20:34:22'
- author:
    name: Bhikkhu Pesala
    picture: 120325
  body: "I found that it is very easy to add a GPOS lookup for subscripts. Using the
    same glyphs that I added for the Ordinals feature, I added a Subscript feature
    with gpos lookup to move the glyphs down to bisect the baseline.\r\n\r\n<code>feature
    Subscript subs {\r\n    lookup Subscript;\r\n}  lookup Subscript {\r\n    pos
    [uni00B9 uni00B2 uni00B3 uni2070 - uni207E uniEAA1 - uniEADA] -> ,-990;\r\n}</code>\r\n\r\nI
    then added an almost identical feature to move the superscripts down to align
    with the baseline.\r\n\r\n<code>feature Shillings shll {\r\n    lookup Shillings;\r\n}
    \ lookup Shillings {\r\n    pos [uni00B9 uni00B2 uni00B3 uni2070 - uni207E uniEAA1
    - uniEADA] -> ,-534;\r\n}<code>\r\nThis seems like an efficient solution. The
    user types 123 abc etc., and applies the superscript feature to get superscripts,
    then also applies the subscript or shilling feature to get subscripts or baseline
    subscripts. \r\n\r\nA similar feature could be applied to move lowercase ordinals
    higher than the uppercase ordinals. \r\n"
  created: '2010-10-24 09:28:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "If your font is just for yourself, your trick for inferiors will get the
    ink on the paper in the right place. \r\n\r\nHowever, if the font is for general
    use, you have to check that the text exported from, say, InDesign or any other
    text editor/layout program, doesn't have the wrong character. Depending on how
    the font is made, I could write the substitution code along the lines you suggest,
    where the 2 in H2O would set as an inferior with your font, but would, in a subsequent
    text file, be a superior.\r\n\r\nIn short, repositioning a character to look like
    another character which has a different Unicode number is not nice."
  created: '2010-10-24 14:26:36'
- author:
    name: Bhikkhu Pesala
    picture: 120325
  body: "Thanks for the feedback. I had to drop the idea to use GPOS anyway, since
    it seems that PagePlus X5 doesn't yet support GPOS features. \r\n\r\nMy latest
    fonts have glyphs that are used for both ordinals and superscripts, while subscripts
    are composites of superscripts. I included a basic set of punctuation and about
    100 Latin Extended characters for superscript text. Ordinals include just A-Z,
    a-z, and \xC8\xE8 \xDA\xFA. \r\n\r\nUppercase superscripts align with top of Caps,
    and baselines of lowercase superscripts align with uppercase. \r\n\r\nIf anyone
    wants to try the fonts in InDesign I will be interested in your results. I am
    new to this, so I am sure there will be some problems. \r\n\r\n[[http://www.aimwell.org/Fonts/fonts.html|My
    Fonts Page]]"
  created: '2010-11-10 20:48:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bhikku, I am a bit late to respond (to a different thread), sorry, but I
    don't think your ordinals code is correct.\r\nPlease see this thread:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/74330"
  created: '2010-11-10 21:37:33'
- author:
    name: Bhikkhu Pesala
    picture: 120325
  body: "The ordinals feature works for me \u2014 have you tried the font?\r\n\r\nAfter
    a digit, all alphas are superscripts until a non alpha character is typed \u2014
    that is any punctuation, space, or digit (other than A-Z, a-z, \xC8\xE8 or \xDA\xFA).
    \r\n\r\nWorks for 1st, 2nd 3rd, 1ST: 2ND; 3RD; 1\xE8m, 2o, 3\xFA, or 7/16ths 31/32nds
    etc. "
  created: '2010-11-15 22:02:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>After a digit, all alphas are superscripts...</em>\r\n\r\nBut that should
    only occur in ordinal situations.\r\nConsider, for instance, an address like 221b
    Baker St.\r\nOr an era like the 1960s.\r\nOr 50k (either a sum of money or a race
    distance).\r\nThose would have superscripted alphas if your feature were applied
    as a paragraph style sheet.\r\n\r\nI suspect there may be yet other kinds of letter-number
    sequence that occur in text where ordinals would not be appropriate."
  created: '2010-11-15 23:40:01'
- author:
    name: Bhikkhu Pesala
    picture: 120325
  body: "I suppose one could limit the ordinals group to only s, t, h, r, n, d, o,
    \xE8, \xFA,  and S, T, H, R, N, D, O, \xC8, \xDA, but that seems far less flexible.
    As you say in the linked thread, \"This works for English,\" but what about other
    languages, and what about text set in all capitals or small capitals, e.g. 4TH
    JULY? \r\n\r\nCalibri, Constantia, etc., just apply superscripts to all text with
    the ordinals attribute, regardless of whether it follows a digit or not. \r\n\r\nIn
    PagePlus it is easy to enable or disable the Ordinal feature from the [[http://homepage.ntlworld.com/pesala/Home/html/pageplus.html#OpenType|text
    context toolbar]]. "
  created: '2010-11-16 06:51:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If one is going to have an Ordinals feature, it should at least be different
    than the Superiors feature, or else it is redundant, so why bother?\r\n\r\nSo
    your code, which discontinues the feature after a non-alpha character is OK, as
    is mine, which is English-specific.\r\n\r\nThe reason my code doesn't cover superior
    capitals is because I have yet to produce a font with those glyphs! \r\nHowever,
    I have considered it; I particularly like the idea of superior capitals with dots
    underneath them, a style which was used in the 19th century for abbreviations.\r\n\r\nAs
    for other languages, I haven't gotten around to that just yet."
  created: '2010-11-16 20:22:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>If one is going to have an Ordinals feature, it should at least
    be different than the Superiors feature, or else it is redundant, so why bother?</em>\r\n\r\nTwo
    reasons:\r\n\r\n1. So that feature tagged text created in a font that supports
    the ordinals feature displays with appropriate ordinal forms in your font, even
    if these forms are identical to the superscript feature forms and are even referenced
    from the same lookups;\r\n\r\n2. Users working with tagged text (e.g. XML) might
    have have defined a distinction between superscript and ordinals, and it is convenient
    for them if these are mapped to corresponding features in style sheets, again
    independent of how the results are either displayed or arrived at in a particular
    font."
  created: '2010-11-17 20:57:28'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: I will have to admit that I would expect superior letters to have exactly
    the same baseline as superior digits, so that I can refer to x squared, or x raised
    to the power of a, with equal facility. But many typefaces are not primarily intended
    for the typesetting of mathematical formulae.
  created: '2010-11-21 20:10:35'
- author:
    name: charles ellertson
  body: "<cite>But many typefaces are not primarily intended for the typesetting of
    mathematical formulae.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes. And if you will read the whole thread,
    you'll note that \"mathematical formulae\" are not the only, or in this thread,
    even the primary concern."
  created: '2010-11-21 21:27:45'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Sometimes ordfeminine & ordmasculine have small underlines.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ordinals_5497.png]"
  created: '2010-11-22 07:52:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Is the underline appropriate for all languages?
  created: '2010-11-22 18:01:26'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "Sorry for the lazy Post! I am doing a writeup of ordinal usage and will post
    up.\r\n\r\nIn the mean time here are a couple of links:\r\n\r\n<strong>Links and
    further Reading </strong>\r\n\r\nConversation about the underscore:\r\n<a href=\"hhttp://forums.adobe.com/thread/565418?decorator=print&displayFullThread=true\">http://forums.adobe.com/thread/565418?decorator=print&displayFullThread=true</a>\r\n\r\nTypophile
    thread about kerning ordinals:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/67507\">Node
    67507</a>\r\n\r\nTypophile thread about various uses of ordinals:\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/16879\">Node
    16879</a>"
  created: '2010-11-23 16:37:54'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Okay mods\u2014\r\n\r\nThis last entry is clearly spam\u2026"
  created: '2012-10-26 09:29:34'
- author:
    name: Queneau
    picture: 112949
  body: Spam paid by whom...? SOftmaker distances itself from these rumours, true
    or false. Rather a desperate act to somehow make contact, be useful... But still,
    it does seem rather pointless.
  created: '2012-10-26 15:01:15'
date: '2005-12-19 09:43:41'
node_type: forum
title: 'OpenType Superiors Feature: Why do letters and numbers have different baselines?'

---
