---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "Continuing the saga of NOW and following on the heels of <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/16147\">NOW
  Light</a> comes the first sequel \"NOW Bold--The Dark Side Menace!\"\r\n\r\nAttached
  below is a PDF from Dec. 27. I corrected superior and inferior numbers and a few
  other characters. The fractions now build out of OTF.\r\n\r\nComments are welcomed
  from one and all (See the white glyphs come over--to the Dark Side)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/now-dark-side.gif]\r\n\r\nSee
  last PDF called \"NOW_boldnLight2-22a.pdf\"  for latest changes as of 2-21-06 \r\nMade
  corrections based on William Berkson's suggestions."
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There are a few lines of NOW light mixed in with the bold on a few pages
    but I intend to do a regular and a medium weight as well. The Medium (or Demibold)
    will no doubt be a better match for the light weight.  The Bold will be more suited
    to set with the regular when it is done.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 03:05:55'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "Chris, my first impression...this could be wrong. It looks like you used
    FontLab's autobold feature. Personally, I'd like to see more stroke contrast.
    Your thins could go thinner. It'll also increase the legibility particularly in
    positive contrast. \r\n\r\nYou get a thumbs up for even having a small caps in
    a sans serif face. I can't tell you how much I wish more sans faces had them. "
  created: '2005-12-20 03:51:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Terry! I have been fighting with the contrast for weeks.  The hard
    part about doing a family is that you have to make total family allowances even
    if some of the weights are not as successful as others.  I purposely made this
    bold more bold than its needs to be so that I had a fair extreme for the MM transition.
    \ By the way, I started with the FL Bold technique and soon after dumped it because
    it was so bad.\r\nSince I am trying for the appearance of a monoline family, I
    did not push the contrast as much as if I were doing a bold alone.  My guess is
    that I will have to revisit this bold version after I do the in-between weights.
    \ There are things you have to do to keep extremes of a Multiple Master face compatible
    so that you don't just get a mash of junk for each instance.\r\n\r\nI always do
    Small Caps.  I like to give the user plenty of options.\r\n\r\nThanks for your
    help! Keep coming back and check on my progress.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 04:05:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I know NOW will never compete with Trajan for movie Titles but here is one
    that seems to fit the darker side of NOW:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Spaceballs-NOW.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 05:10:22'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Haha, you're always ready with a good joke even if it is to bump your own
    thread...a productive bump at that!
  created: '2005-12-20 05:13:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...even if it is to bump your own thread\u2026\"\r\n\r\nWhat's a person
    to do :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 05:16:20'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<cite>What's a person to do :-)</cite>\r\n\r\nLaugh at your jokes and then
    be compelled to critique your work. :-D"
  created: '2005-12-20 05:19:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Star studded answer David :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 05:22:13'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: I would lend you my critique but I'm too green in such field and wouldn't
    be able to give you any solid advice. I'll just do the laughing and watch your
    creation blossom.
  created: '2005-12-20 05:27:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019m too green in such field and wouldn\u2019t be able to give you
    any solid advice.\"\r\n\r\nYou still have 2 eyes right? Fear not.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 05:30:11'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Do you have alternate lc 'g's or are you just testing to see which one works
    better? The contrast between the light and bold are pretty outrageous, but that's
    no help really, just thinking out loud. Not much to say sorry!\r\n\r\nI like your
    humor...'ottowoman empire'...haha!"
  created: '2005-12-20 05:59:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I'm very impressed, Chris.\r\nThe balance of stem weights across case and
    style is something you do nicely.\r\n\r\nA few minor things stand out.\r\nThe
    1 seems a bit too pointy on top, compared to the general feel of the face (the
    OSF version is better).\r\nThe 4, too, is a bit pointy on the left.\r\nThe waist
    of the Oldstyle 3 seems a bit high.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure you need f-ligatures.
    \r\n\r\nYour accents could sit lower on the lower case -- the way they align at
    the top is disconcerting in the slavic, especially when the UC accents are so
    close. Maybe try the \"bottom alignment\" strategy.\r\n\r\nThe l-slash slash could
    be more discrete.\r\n(Your ogoneks rock, dude -- that fine stroke detail is not
    amiss.)\r\n\r\nThe O-slashes too -- I think the slash only needs to protrude a
    little, and be even on each side.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nIt's a good bold weight, but
    I'm puzzled why you wouldn't do the Extra Bold first, as the more extreme end
    of your weight axis. I seem to recall that your other sans face had a very heavy
    bold."
  created: '2005-12-20 06:14:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Nick!\r\nYou are right, I'll fix the ones and fours (and the dreaded
    3:-).  \r\nI don't know that I need the f-ligs either but I thought I would put
    them in because they are \"expected\" to be part of an OTF family (the user can
    just turn them off I guess). Also, since this is an axis weight, I thought it
    best to include them to generate the middle instances.\r\nI'll pull the lc diacritics
    down some as you suggest.\r\nWhen you say \"l-slash more discreet\" do you mean
    the slash is too long or too bold?\r\nMy O slashes are not done yet. I did not
    even mean to post them.  You are quite right, they look way over-the-top as they
    are now.\r\nRegarding using the Extra-bold or Black as the axis--my experience
    with Leporello taught me that there is a \"hump\" in the weight range after which
    different corrections are required (the vertical sides of curves need to be more
    vertical, more points, and trapping is needed). I fully in tend to do a black
    weight but will do it after the others are done. I am hoping this will save me
    time correcting the middle weights. This is my plan but I might be wrong. I'll
    let you know either way.\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 16:23:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks David!\r\n\r\nYou are right, the single bowl a and g are alternates.
    There are folks who prefer them so I just put them in.\r\n\r\nRegarding the big
    jump to the bold--as I said in my second post above, \" The Medium (or Demibold)
    will no doubt be a better match for the light weight. The Bold will be more suited
    to set with the regular when it is done.\"\r\n\r\nBesides being a fun joke, OTTOWOMAN
    is a good test word for the T T lig and for kerning. I love it when humor has
    a purpose as well :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 16:31:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I am still being very impressed with the whole thing! I think Terry's comments
    about contrast are right. I think having just a little bit more contrast despite
    the monoline nature here & there would add some sparkle that I find desirable
    ( and probably increased legibility ) - especially in bold weights. 'Now light'
    has a distictive flavour that I miss in the bold. It's as if the font is getting
    watery in the bold. No matter what you decide about the main forms re: contrast,
    I really want to encourage you to look at the diacritical marks. This part is
    me going out on a limb because I am utterly new to the issue - but thats said
    - my admittedly inexperienced eye seems to prefer more contrast in diacritial
    marks *especially*. I think that this is because they need to communicate well
    in a smaller space than a full letter or something like that.\r\n\r\nA probably
    minor point. On page 4 of the PDF the word 'Woman' appears & the spacing between
    W and O is really apalling. I am guessing that this is because the kerning isn't
    done or maybe even started."
  created: '2005-12-20 17:09:37'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Chris, I like it, but you need to work more on the spacing:\r\n\r\n\"very\"
    check ry\r\n\r\n\"fat\" \"italic\" \"display\" some letter pairs (ta, fa, la)
    seem to be too tight.\r\n\r\n\"Alphabets\" ts seems tight\r\n\r\n\"punch\" the
    space in this word seems to be looser than the average.\r\n\r\nThe hypen seems
    a bit high and heavy, punctuation in general seems a bit heavy but maybe it's
    a matter of taste.\r\n\r\n\xBFHow many weights do you intend to do?\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-12-20 17:20:52'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "S --> only falling ever-so-slightly to the right\r\n\r\nI think the old style
    4 appears to be stabbing the 3 in the back. I agree that the waist on the lining
    3 seems too high, especially if you look at it next to the lining 4. \r\n\r\nThe
    cedilla below the G (and maybe the R) seems off. I think it is the anal person
    in me that wants it to have an even space in between.\r\n\r\nThe @ seems way to
    big and bold.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-20 17:27:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Eben!\r\n\r\nI'll take another look at the diacritics and the contrast.\r\nThe
    kerning is \"leftover\" kerning from the Light version so I definitely need to
    redo it for the bold. The WO compared to the OM definitely needs a visit.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 17:27:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks H\xE9ctor!\r\n\r\nI am at that phase where I am deciding what is a
    kerning issue and what is a sidebearing issue. This always makes me revisit the
    glyph shapes as well. I will take a hard look at the spacing issues you identified.\r\nThe
    punctuation is up in the air and needs a review, thanks for pointing out the hyphen
    height. I may need to do a feature for cap vs lc hyphens.\r\n\r\nI plan to add
    an extra-light, a regular, a medium, and a black to the weights I have. I then
    will do italics for all the weights. I may also do a \"Signage variation\" with
    larger x-height and more width.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 17:38:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Tiff!\r\n\r\nAhhh, the \"S\", thank god it is not the \"3\" this time
    :-) I'll take a look at it.\r\n\r\n\"4 stabbing 3\" that will add to the murder
    rate around here :-) That goes along with Nick's post about pointiness in the
    4.\r\n\r\nAbout the cedilla, which way is it off?\r\n\r\nYou are right. The @
    sign needs a major fix.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 17:44:17'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Chris,\r\nYou really make an excellent first impression with your Now bold.
    I'd make some remark though.\r\nThe * and the @ seems to bold compare to the entire
    typface, espacially for the @ which one could be less large.\r\nThe top left part
    of the e, just beside of the left side near the middle, seems to have a broken
    curve.\r\nThe florin: the inside of the top and the bottom would be better if
    you use something like your actual f or even the Sterling Pound. Also, the middle
    bar seems to thick.\r\nthe two g are really nice.\r\nThe U caps give a great look
    to your Now.\r\nDon't you find the tail of the Q seems to much on the right side\r\nThe
    caps G : may be the stems could be less high.\r\nthe \xF8 : I think he is to bold,
    especially the slant bar.\r\nOverall, I really like it. Great work.\r\nAndr\xE9"
  created: '2005-12-20 18:21:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: ">When you say \u201Cl-slash more discreet\u201D do you mean the slash is
    too long or too bold?\r\n\r\nI think it sticks out too much. \r\nIn my experience,
    the l slash does not have to be such a demonstrative accent as the others, and
    I think the reason for this is that no other accent appears in the middle of the
    \"l\", whereas other accents appear in positions that are common to more than
    one.\r\nSo for the l-slash, all you have to do is offer the indication that \"there
    is an accent here\", and not be concerned with showing exactly what its form is.
    Perhaps rotate it a little counter-clockwise."
  created: '2005-12-20 18:31:31'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "Bottom right part of 'G' looks too straight to me, tail of 'Q' maybe a bit
    too long, top left white of 'S' radius doesn't flow like the stylistic approach
    in 'C' or '?'; 'Z' maybe too trapeze, two extra little edges in 'OE', bottom left
    (two negatives) 'a' stops my eye, 't' too sharp or 'f' not enough sharp like the
    nose of (loop) 'g'; '4' looks the lighter among lc figures.\r\nOttowomen Empire,
    lol.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAS"
  created: '2005-12-20 18:42:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "This may be what Tiffany and Nick referred to earlier:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/psycho4
    Stabbing3.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 18:51:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Andre!\r\n\r\nI'll take a closer look at the curve on the e. Right
    now it seems like the top right point of the lower stroke needs to be slightly
    more left.\r\nThe florin and @ definitely need work.\r\nThere was another mention
    of the tail of the Q. This is a sure sign that it needs a trim.\r\nI'll pull down
    the stem of the G some and fix the o slashes.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 19:04:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks for the l slash tip Nick, I'll take your advice.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 19:05:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Alessandro!\r\n\r\nI am not sure what you mean by \"top left white
    of \u2018S\u2019 radius doesn\u2019t flow like the stylistic approach in \u2018C\u2019
    or \u2018?\u2019\"? What is meant by stylistic?\r\n\r\nAre you saying I should
    remove the indents where the OE overlap and make it a smooth line?\r\n\r\n\"\u2018a\u2019
    stops my eye, \u2018t\u2019 too sharp or \u2018f\u2019 not enough sharp like the
    nose of (loop) \u2018g\u2019; \u20184\u2019 looks the lighter among lc figures.\"--I'll
    take a look at those.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 19:10:44'
- author:
    name: Giovanni Jubert
  body: "Good work Chris,\r\n\r\ni am not an expert, but as you said to someone else
    I do have two eyes,\r\nso I will tell you what I saw at first glance, although
    Nick pointed it out too.\r\n\r\nTo me the f-liggs seems too forced and trap too
    much of my attention,\r\nspecially in the fl & ff combinations. I am not sure
    you need them.\r\nI would also say the one stroke a has something to be reconsidered...\r\nand
    that capital Q goes a little wild.\r\n\r\nBut, apart from that, congratulations,
    it looks awesome to me.\r\n\r\nGio\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-20 20:21:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Giovanni!\r\n\r\nI'll add your votes on the ligs and the Q to the
    others--there seems to be a pattern here :-)\r\n\r\nI don't know what you mean
    about the alt \"a\"  though? Do you mean I should dump it or make it the primary?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-20 21:09:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I don't pretend to know Giovanni's mind, but I wonder if it isn't the curve
    at the top of the a where it goes from horizontal to vertical - I was thinking
    the transition from thin to thick might be more gradual. But maybe not too. \r\n\r\nI
    have had a hard time figuring how much of what little there is to ask you about
    is just unfinnished interletter spacing issues rather than letter shape issues.
    Of course really the two things relate to each other. But I wonder if some seemingly
    rough areas will smooth out when you do more spacing and some seemingly finnished
    shapes will turn out to be less done than they seemed at first. I am curious about
    how you see this. Do you think about it this way - or some other way?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-21 00:25:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nI go back and forth between interletter spacing and glyph refinement.
    I don't think either is ever done. I don't just draw glyphs and then just do metrics.
    Sometimes what looks to me like a kerning issue works out to be an adjustment
    to the outlines of a few glyphs. What I find helpful is looking at multiple neighbor
    combinations. Some of the pages in my PDF are just permutations of letter combinations.
    \r\nI don't have very fixed methods and patterns of working. I don't base judgments
    on theories others have come up with. I pretty much just use my eyes.  The trick
    is not to get too rigid. This may not work for other people. It also may not work
    for a revival where you are trying to get inside the head of the original designer.
    \ Everyone needs to find what works best for them.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-21 00:42:05'
- author:
    name: Giovanni Jubert
  body: "\"I don\u2019t pretend to know Giovanni\u2019s mind, but I wonder if it isn\u2019t
    the curve at the top of the a where it goes from horizontal to vertical - I was
    thinking the transition from thin to thick might be more gradual\"\r\n\r\nGreat
    explanaition. I guess we are both focusing on the same part of that alt a. \r\nAgain,
    not sure you need it, but designwise, i think it is to heavy on the top left curve,\r\nmaking
    to prominent in the top part which makes it unstable... (if this has any sens
    to you...)\r\n\r\nJust an opinion.\r\n\r\nGio\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-21 03:31:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Giovanni,\r\nI think I understand you now.  I will take a closer look at
    it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-21 03:43:13'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: May the schwartz be with you on this new weight, Chris.
  created: '2005-12-21 05:22:27'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> works best for them\r\n\r\nThanks for your explanation both of your working
    methods in general and your perspective on your font at this point in it's development.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2005-12-21 07:22:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/faoschwartz.gif]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-21 14:25:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Greetings again,\r\n\r\nI have just posted a new PDF (number 02 at the top).\r\nI
    think I have addressed everyones suggestions and tinkered a bit more.\r\n\r\nLet
    me know what you think.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-21 17:48:21'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: "Chris,\r\nYou work hard and fast. \r\n\r\nI don't want to do your job, but
    I still see the problem with the upper left side of the lc e, although it could
    be only me. I still found some shrinking in that part of the e.  Here a sample
    of what I would want to say.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/e_Now.gif]\r\n\r\nYou
    choose to have a comma different of the apostrophe but I think the comma is a
    bit to high especially when the comma comes just after the t or the l. \r\n\r\nI
    notice you've made a lots of touch up. Some glyphs (florin,@ for instance) are
    really nicest in this new version. Good work"
  created: '2005-12-21 20:01:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Andr\xE9,\r\nAre you seeing it that way at text sizes or just when
    large? I was concerned with the counter of the e feeling too constricted at text
    sizes and opened it up to compensate. I do some things in text faces that I would
    not need to do in display. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-21 20:16:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "First impressions: \r\n\r\nThe shape of the W seems a bit much somehow. Partly
    it is because it seems darker than the other letters. But also I wonder if it
    has to be quite so wide. There are lots of ways to shift the M around, middle
    point heights, angles of the sides... I don't presume to say what to do about
    it.\r\n\r\nThe right sidebearing on the lc t seems to need to be wider, the lc
    c too maybe - but less so. The lc l when you get a 'la' seems tight whereas the
    lt & le seem good. ca is too tight. ta too. ac seems fine. I wonder if the tail
    on the l is sligtly too long at this weight. In the word typphile and ultra and
    biblio it looks fine. But in the word display or black it seems like a problem
    albeit a minor one. The combo 'fo' seem stoo tight & nf not tight enough. ( from
    the word information ). re seems tight. ti seems just a little tight. stre is
    great.  jm is a bit loose. tn is tight. tv too.\r\n\r\nI don't know if this helps.
    I have not been exhaustive, that for sure! I am curious if it looks this way to
    you too. "
  created: '2005-12-21 20:37:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eben,\r\nIt seems you have been noticing some kerning pairs rather than side
    bearings.  Everything you mentioned as too tight was a kerning pair. Thanks for
    the info. I'll take another look.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-21 20:41:40'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: ">Are you seeing it that way at text sizes or just when large? \r\n\r\nI saw
    that at text size the first time I saw the e. That's why I enlarge it to check
    what happened there."
  created: '2005-12-21 20:49:10'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: ">kerning pairs\r\n\r\nProbably so! Except maybe for the c. The right sidebearing
    on that seems always to be a tadger bit tight. Being inexperienced it's interesting
    but tricky to look at this. What do you think about my comment about the lc l?
    uc M? Anything to it or do you disagree? Overall the main thing I still notice
    is a slightly irregular rhythm. Otherwise it seems like a pleasingly quirky sans!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-21 21:02:35'
- author:
    name: smirkiston
  body: "I really like this dez! It's got great potential. \r\n\r\nI think I might
    echo another comment here, but the bottom right of the G seems like it doesn't
    want to be at such an extreme angle. If you could make that angle similar to the
    one in the U, I think it would really look great.\r\n\r\nTiny nitpicking aside...
    I can see lots of uses for this one when it's perfect! Good job!"
  created: '2005-12-21 22:56:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Mike!\r\n\r\nI should say \"Howdy neighbor\" too since you are about
    15 miles west of me here in Falls Church :-)\r\n\r\nBTW, I'll check out the G.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-21 23:26:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Dez, could you give us some text, Spanish maybe, that we'll see the cedilla
    on the R G and r g ?
  created: '2005-12-21 23:53:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I'll look for something Tiff.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-22 00:31:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tiff,\r\nIsn't that mostly a French mark?\r\nIf you have a loink to some
    text, I'll use that or email it to me.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-22 00:41:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tiff,\r\nI just posted a French only PDF but there are very few cedillas.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-22 01:24:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tiff,\r\nSpanish had slim pickens but Portuguese seems more like it. See
    the 4th PDF.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-22 01:51:24'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "The ra, ta, la, sa, and fa combinations look tight in some words. The acute
    accent on i seems a bit offset. Hypens still look a bit high.\r\n\r\nNice text
    to be set in spanish and portuguese!\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2005-12-22 21:36:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks H\xE9ctor!\r\n\r\nI still have to revisit the spacing and hyphens
    again. \r\n\r\nI was hoping someone would notice the text :-) I can't understand
    it but hoped it was saying what I thought the English version said on the UN site.
    I know only a hand full of Spanish words and no Portuguese.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-22 21:43:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I just posted a new PDF (Now_BoldTpfle03.pdf) at the top with the latest
    changes.\r\nI hope I have made H\xE9ctor's changes this time.  I also touched
    up the cedilla.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-23 01:39:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mike,\r\nThere must be some kind of optical illusion thing going on. The
    G and U share the same lower right outline. Perhaps I misunderstood your question?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-24 00:09:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I wonder if the tail on the l is sligtly too long at this weight. In
    the word typphile and ultra and biblio it looks fine...,\"\r\n\r\nEben,\r\nI shortened
    the tail on the l and respaced it.  I think you were right.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-24 00:14:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "More tinkerings have just been posted above dated 12-23-05.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-24 05:11:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/now-christmas.gif]'
  created: '2005-12-24 21:50:09'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: holy vibrating colors batman! *shields eyes*
  created: '2005-12-24 21:59:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I'm feelin' those \"Good, good, good, Good Vibrations!, Vibrations!\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-24 23:02:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For Christmas, I just added the remaining glyphs including superior and inferior
    numbers so fractions build using frac feature. See PDF dated 12-25-05.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-26 01:06:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I made more corrections including revision of superior and inferior numbers
    and some spacing changes.\r\nI redid the cedilla and posted a Spanish and Portuguese
    file to show diacritics.\r\n\r\nSee 12/27/05 P{DF above as well as the new language
    PDF.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-27 16:22:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Sorry, Chris. -- *hangs head in shame.* -- became wrapped up in the holidays.
    I'll take a look now.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-30 21:09:11'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Chris, for how often those characters show up, perhaps I'm being anal. :^/
  created: '2005-12-30 21:17:03'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "sorry for interrupting and asking silly questions:\r\nIn pdf Now_BoldTpfle12-27-05.pdf,
    line seven (not counting headline):\r\n\r\nThere is the \"bar\" and the \"brokenbar\"
    (between \"section\" and \"numbersign\"). Is there any reason why they look so
    special as they do? Or is it \"just\" a design-choice?\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSebilar"
  created: '2006-01-31 01:32:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Actually, that is the dagger and the double dagger you are noticing. The
    bar and broken bar are quite plain and ordinary looking--so plain that I forgot
    to show them in the pdf :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-31 02:52:04'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: oookay :-)  *hidingashamed*
  created: '2006-01-31 11:14:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "No sweat--and no need to hide :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-31 18:37:56'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hi Chris, \r\n\r\nJust printed out your PDFs, comparing light and bold. To
    me the charms of the light came from the differing treatment of the round and
    branching letters (eg p vs n)--which at first I was doubtful about, but won me
    over because it works well. But in the black in the current form a lot of that
    is lost, I think. Part of the problem is I suspect that the spacing it too tight,
    and part, as others have said, that the branches of are not thinned enough coming
    into the stems, so that these letters look clotted. But also related to this is
    that you have lost the shapes of your counters in bolding, and with it some of
    the good character of the thin. \r\n\r\nFor example, the branch of the bold n
    heads into the stem at a much greater angle on the counter side. I think it would
    worth trying to preserve the shapes of the flatter counter in the n as you bold,
    and to do this by thinning the bolded letter on the top side of the join between
    the branch and the stem. Futura does this kind of thing--keeping the circular
    counters, and greatly distorting the (supposedly but really not) 'geometrical'
    outer outline of the letter.  "
  created: '2006-02-04 19:19:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks William.  I have been taking a break from type design for a month
    or so to try to get a more naive look at what I have done. When I start back again
    from my hiatus, I will take a look at what you mean in a more determined way.
    \ I appreciate your continued commentary.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-04 20:35:18'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think in my initial post in this thread I was trying to get at the same
    ideas that William wrote about just now - although he has written about it in
    a far more lucid manner than I did. \r\n\r\nI am takling a small break from type
    design too - and for the same reason - to look with fresh eyes."
  created: '2006-02-11 00:17:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Eben, nothing like time passage to let you see the forest instead
    of the trees :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-11 16:00:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William and Eben,\r\nI have made corrections suggested in Williams most recent
    post.  I think it is a real improvement.  The bold looks much more crisp now.
    See the last file in the list above called \"...bold&lite\"\r\n\r\nThanks for
    your help, it made a quantum leap.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-22 00:54:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Chris, I''m getting a ''page not found'' error message instead of the PDF
    when I click on the link. '
  created: '2006-02-22 02:46:47'
- author:
    name: sim
    picture: 129649
  body: ":^( \r\nI get the same error message too."
  created: '2006-02-22 12:19:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Strange, I get the same message now too.  I will repost it tonight when I
    get home.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: I wonder if the ampersand in the file name
    is the culprit?"
  created: '2006-02-22 13:12:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I edited the initial post a re-attached the PDF file.  The new file name
    is: \"NOW_boldnLight2-22.pdf\"\r\nI hope it works this time.  I took out the ampersand
    incase that was the culprit.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-22 23:10:07'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "It looks very nice, Chris. How many weights are we going to see?\r\n\r\nJust
    one nit-pick, the registered symbol should usually be superscript."
  created: '2006-02-23 00:59:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Paul!\r\nI am planning to add a regular, a medium, and a black and
    hairline next with italics afterwards. I also envision a condensed set--perhaps
    even an inscriptional capitals version at some point.\r\n\r\nI'll add the superscript
    registered for you too Paul :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-23 01:24:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I made some minor tweaks to the joins on b, d, p, and q to more follow the
    n and h. I replaced the last PDF with a 22a designation.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-23 01:54:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, I think those 'minor tweaks' made a major move to get the spirit of
    your light version. I still have the impression that it is spaced too tight. Is
    there some reason for this?\r\n\r\nOverall the question I think is how to treat
    the joins so the counters will sing in the way you want. They are starting to
    sing, but I think they can become still sweeter if you have some more bashes at
    it. \r\n\r\nHere is a comparison of the way Franklin and Futura handle the joins
    on the h:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Franklin and Futura copy.gif]\r\n\r\nFranklin
    has generally more of a two-weight look, with thinner horizontals. And Future
    more of a one weight look, but with quite pinched joins. I think experimenting
    further with this will even more get you where you want to go, but I think you
    have definitely got much closer. \r\n\r\nGood luck with it!\r\n\r\nps. should
    the foot of the l be a little fatter? I was waiting to get accustomed to the bent
    stems on the tops of the i and j, but I still find them distracting. They don't
    have the logic of the bent stems on the nm, and they aren't full serifs. For me
    they are too in-between.  "
  created: '2006-02-28 04:11:01'
date: '2005-12-20 02:46:27'
files:
- filename: NOW bold Spanish-Portuguese.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/NOW bold Spanish-Portuguese.pdf
- filename: Now_BoldTpfle12-27-05.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Now_BoldTpfle12-27-05.pdf
- filename: NOW_boldnLight2-22a.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/NOW_boldnLight2-22a.pdf
node_type: forum
title: NOW Bold--The Sans of Time Moves to the DARK SIDE

---
