---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "Now, thanks to my wife, I'm the proud owner of a Veer Kern zip-up. It's great!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/products/merchdetail.aspx?image=VPR0001260\r\n\r\nCheers,
  Si"
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Me, I got to wait another week for when we traditionally give\r\nour gifts
    (although most of us break down and give on both days).\r\nThe good thing though
    is this way shopping is cheaper/faster.  :-)\r\nAnd one tradition quite particular
    to our family (although I'm\r\nsure others do it secretly too) is that of the
    self-gift: each person\r\ngets to buy (and wrap and place under the tree) a gift
    of his own\r\nchoosing (usually something small though) so that he gets at\r\nleast
    one thing he likes for sure. Mine is this:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/asia-pacific/4494938.stm\r\n\r\nThe
    jacket is sweet.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-25 18:52:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\nI got the same Kern zip too! My best gift was from my daughter who
    gave me a T shirt she made with Leporello on it!\r\n\r\nMy wife spilled the beans
    early and she is getting me a digital camera for my birthday in a couple of weeks.
    \ Now I won't be the only person at TypeCon without one :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-25 19:54:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nWho knew the bible could be that racey :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-25 19:54:52'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "My wife gave me the 1923 ATF Specimen Book & Catalogue! Yes! \r\n\r\nI've
    wanted one of these for years, since I became aware of them (thanks to Typophile).
    At 1,100+ pages, my bedtime reading needs are taken care of for quite some time."
  created: '2005-12-25 21:29:03'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<cite>Letters of Credit</cite> by Walter Tracy\r\n<cite>Anatomy of a Typeface</cite>
    by Alexander Lawson\r\n<cite>The Elements of Typographic Style</cite> by Robert
    Bringhurst\r\n<cite>Logo, Font, and Lettering Bible</cite> by Leslie Cabarga\r\n<cite>Wordplay
    2nd Edition</cite> by John Langdon\r\n\r\nI've got a lot of reading to do! Oh
    and for those wondering I've found no errors in my US printed version of Langdon's
    second edition release of Wordplay. I did find one page with a few random bold
    letters, but the reproduction quality of his work is spot on. I did recieve some
    other small gifts, but it was just good for the family to be together as I had
    no real material wants this year besides the books!"
  created: '2005-12-25 22:42:49'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Vinyl:\r\nLee Hazlewood: Portrait of an almost lady\r\nLee Hazlewood: Poet,
    Fool or Bum\r\nBillie Holiday: Songs for Distingue Lovers\r\nThe Stooges: Fun
    House\r\n\r\nPlus, Guided by Voices: The electifying conclusion (actually a very
    good and long concert film)\r\n\r\nHappy Ears"
  created: '2005-12-26 00:10:15'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: '1912 American Specimen Book of Type Styles (ATF) and Barnhart Brothers &
    Spindler Catalog #9 (c 1905). Evidently, my wife thinks I''ve been VERY good this
    past year...'
  created: '2005-12-26 01:47:35'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "I also got a Veer Kern zip up, <a href=\"http://www.zeroimage.com/web2003/EntryPage/entryFrameset.htm\">this
    camera</a> and a nice green velvet jacket, some cool pajamas, and something that
    I probably shouldn't mention here.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt : http://www.hewnandhammered.com
    : rnrmf!"
  created: '2005-12-26 02:37:43'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "and PS, I totally want one of Hrant's horny Jesus calendars.\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com : rnrmf!"
  created: '2005-12-26 02:38:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Josh, I knew you'd like it. The thing is, you need to get a continental -and
    preferably Teutonic- friend to buy one and send it to you. Apparently some of
    the models are feared of possibly being considered underaged (consent-wise) in
    the US (which is -rightly- seen as overly puritanical) so they refuse to mail
    any over here, just in case. The true god of our age is Liability.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-26 04:00:56'
- author:
    name: Vagari
  body: Veer kern zip up here too. I feel like such a geek for putting it at the top
    of my list. :)
  created: '2005-12-26 04:04:56'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I didn't get any type-related stuff, unless you count the Chip Kidd book
    (which is really great, by the way). I have been doing like Hrant and getting
    something for myself the last couple years. This year it is an iSight. Not sure
    exactly what I'm going to use it for yet, but it is a little techie gem. Last
    year I got a deal on the complete Monty Python DVD set.\r\n\r\nI'm turning 50
    tomorrow and already know <a href=\"http://www.dpreview.com/reviews/canoneos350d/\">one
    thing</a> I'm getting. :-)"
  created: '2005-12-26 04:22:01'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: "Hey Mark, my father's birthday also falls on Dec. 26. As kids, we routinely
    forgot about it and had to scramble at the last minute to find a card, much less
    a present. \r\n\r\nAre you bitter from a lifetime of combined birthday/Xmas gifts?
    ;)"
  created: '2005-12-26 05:15:48'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I gave myself the gift of seeing the Great Horned Owl for the 7th day in Central
    Park. You don't think of Great Horned Owls and Manhattan in the same sentence
    but he/she is here.
  created: '2005-12-26 11:44:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019m turning 50 tomorrow\r\n\r\nThat can't be right - you look younger
    than me!!\r\nBut of course: Happy Birthday!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-26 16:59:21'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: Happy Birthday Mark! Have fun with your camera.  :-)
  created: '2005-12-26 18:15:52'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "My family decided to go do-goody this year and buy gifts only for the kids
    - the rest of us are gonna give to a charity. So I'm the only person here without
    a Veer kern zipup (whatever that is) altho I do have the \"fancy\" t-shirt from
    Veer.\r\n\r\nAnd I have to buy my own digicam - mine crapped out a month ago."
  created: '2005-12-26 18:35:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hmmm, digicam with  fanncy Tshirt, sounds like a film project :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-26 21:27:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Patty,\r\nTry this link for the KE RN zipup:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.veer.com/products/merchdetail.aspx?image=VPR0001260\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-26 21:29:49'
- author:
    name: Jon Whipple
    picture: 110113
  body: "I got <a href=\"http://www.amazon.ca/exec/obidos/ASIN/1568984480/qid%3D1135647064/701-8485092-6451528\">Thinking
    with type</a> and some money. Which really means maybe some new <a href=\"http://www.stormtype.com/teuton.html\">type</a>.\r\n\r\nJon"
  created: '2005-12-27 01:26:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I got this http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0810949652
  created: '2005-12-27 07:32:30'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: I got myself a couple of warm socks and am very happy about it.
  created: '2005-12-27 16:15:23'
- author:
    name: Kristina Drake
    picture: 110970
  body: "I got my kids a bunk bed -- which is really a present for me because I won't
    have to run such an obstacle course to get across the room anymore. That might
    be wishful thinking.\r\n\r\nI also got a set of noise cancelling Senheiser earphones
    to block out the office.\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\nHappy week between, everyone!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-27 16:48:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I also got a set of noise cancelling Senheiser earphones...\"\r\n\r\nKristina,\r\nor
    perhaps to block out the noise of the kids jumping off the new bunk beds? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-27 17:01:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My sole typographic gift, \"jan tschicold, a life in typography\" by ruari
    mclean.\r\nFrom a non-designer friend, incidentally, so Chris, I hope you've been
    enjoying all the plumbing equipment you've been getting from acquaintances you
    told you were a plumber. \r\n\r\nMy book combined nicely with another gift --
    a bottle of old Islay scotch. But not all at once!"
  created: '2005-12-27 21:01:44'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Nick did you get any new subjects to shrink so you can look at them through
    your scary magnifing glass?
  created: '2005-12-27 21:14:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Dan, many of the examples in the tschicold book are actual size, which is
    good.\r\nBut there are quite a few which are \"reduced\", and as they are sharp
    \"line\" rather than halftone images, I have been able to examine them with favorable
    results, magnifying glass in one hand, glass of scotch in the other."
  created: '2005-12-27 21:44:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"so Chris, I hope you\u2019ve been enjoying all the plumbing equipment you\u2019ve
    been getting from acquaintances you told you were a plumber.\"\r\n\r\nNick! LOL!!!
    You remembered that! :-) What a fitting gift they would be :-)\r\nActually, I
    should give plumbing fittings to the doctors involved in my recent Roto-Ruter
    job since they seem to be more intimately involved with my pipes than I care to
    know!\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\nPS: What is your favorite page in the Tschichold book?
    I like his written note to the printer on page 110--\"Don't center it!\"."
  created: '2005-12-27 22:59:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...magnifying glass in one hand, glass of scotch in the other.\"\r\n\r\nNow
    I see why you like the Scotch Roman types :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-27 23:07:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What is your favorite page in the Tschichold book?</em>\r\n\r\nAlong
    those lines, the one where he's crossed out an entire page proof he didn't like,
    with a big \"X\" and the comment \"all wrong. Jan Tschichold.\"\r\n\r\nHowever,
    on reading the book I've realized how influential Tschichold has been on my work.
    I recognized many of the pieces from Typographische Gestaltung. The reason is
    that my wife had a better education in typography as part of her art foundation
    course in Winnipeg, than I did in mine in the UK; and she possessed a copy of
    \"Asymmetric Typography\" (the English version of Typographische Gestaltung) which
    had just been published in Canada at that time. It was the first serious work
    on typography that I read."
  created: '2005-12-28 01:46:17'
- author:
    name: dylan
    picture: 128368
  body: I got a Glock 27 and a box of Federal Hydra-Shok rounds.
  created: '2005-12-28 02:32:25'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: I like your photo Nick, it's really cool. If I were you, I'd use the magnifying
    glass to look at your bottle of scotch. Santa gave me a smokey peaty malt scotch
    whiskey that is excellent and hidden away from visitors and friends. Like Hrant,
    I celebrate a second Christmas in January and really like his self-gift tradition
    (which I don't have). I'm going to suggest it to my family. (I'm working on the
    oh-you-shouldn't-have expression right now!)
  created: '2005-12-28 02:37:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I\u2019m working on the oh-you-shouldn\u2019t-have expression right now!\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-28 02:46:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I have the self-gift tradition, too. I've got this nice bottle of 12-year-old
    Glenmorangie that I am just taking out right now. Mmmmm.\r\n\r\nMy only typographic
    gifts were \"American Type Design & Designers\" by David Consuegra (http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1581153201),
    and \"The Solid Form of Language\" by Robert Bringhurst (beautifully letterpress-printed,
    http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1894031881/qid=1135743897).\r\n\r\nDespite quite
    liking both of those, I think my favorite gift I received has to be the uber-deluxe
    edition of \"Watchmen\" that my wife gave me (http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1401207138
    or http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Watchmen). This has always been one of my all-time
    favorite works, and it's great to have the added material and a physical tome
    that does it justice. I still have my two softcover copies for loaners. (I think
    maybe I loaned one to John Berry, actually - need to check on that some time.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  children:
  - author:
      name: fredo
      picture: 110623
    body: "Thomas Phinney wrote \r\n<cite>\u201CThe Solid Form of Language\u201D by
      Robert Bringhurst\r\n...\r\nDespite quite liking both of those, I think my favorite
      gift I received has to be the uber-deluxe edition of \u201CWatchmen\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\n<strong>I
      got the Bringhurst book too, <cite>The stroke</cite> by Gerrit Noordzij, <cite>Typographia
      polyglotta</cite> by Maxim Zhukov and George Sadek, the latest issue of <cite>Dot</cite>Dot<cite>Dot</cite>
      and a collection of essays by Josef Brodsky (I mainly wanted it for his Nobel
      prize lecture from 1987, but it also contains the author posing with a cat,
      having a beef with Milan Kundera regarding Dostoyevskij, it's hilarious). \r\nMy
      girlfriend gave me a bunch of french king size letterpress wood types to play
      around with when I get grumpy.\r\n\r\nIn both <cite>the solid form of language</cite>
      and <cite>Typographia polyglotta</cite> they mention the Serbo-Croatian script
      situation, which I haven't been aware of before. \r\nI think it'll make an excellent
      conversation piece on the New years eve party we're having. No?\r\n\r\nThomas
      \u2013 Your wife's taste is impeccable. Not even in the face of armageddon.
      <cite>Never compromise.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nTsch\xFC\xDF,</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
    created: '2005-12-29 14:59:39'
  created: '2005-12-28 04:26:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I usually get a bottle of Lagavulin from my in-laws, but this year they surprised
    me with a bottle of Poire William instead. I love just opening it and inhaling
    deeply: like having a pear shoved up your nostril. Wonderful.\r\n\r\nI did get
    something scotch-related though: a set of four trendy Riedel stemless riesling
    glasses. Lately, I've been reading more and more whiskey experts recommending
    drinking fine scotch from white wine glasses rather than the kind of tumblers
    I've been using for years. All the arguments in favour of the wine glasses, how
    they concentrate the aroma, etc. make eminent sense, but I always felt effete
    with my dark smokey scotch in a delicately stem'd wine glass. But now I've found
    the perfect solution in these perfectly shaped wine glasses <em>without stems</em>."
  created: '2005-12-28 05:35:22'
- author:
    name: negativespace
    picture: 109845
  body: "Some money to order a new copy of Dutch Type since a pipe burst above my
    bookshelf and ruined my first one.  Also received the Typotheque 2006 diary which
    is really cool. I don't know whether to actually use it or put it away as a keepsake/collector
    type of thing.\r\n\r\nWon a bit of an early typographic gift at the last Toronto
    Type club talk, which was a cd of recently released typefaces from Monotype."
  created: '2005-12-28 05:43:34'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: John, I received the same Reidel stemless glasses for my birthday this year.
    Aren't they wonderful? I actually got the entire set of both white and red wine
    glasses. It's hard to get used to holding the actual glass and not the stem, isn't
    it? Admittedly, I picked up some proper scotch glasses straight from Scotland
    last year. I prefer the weight of a heavy glass in my hand and the peatier the
    scotch, the better!
  children:
  - author:
      name: blackduke
      picture: 111171
    body: yap, just a bunch of clothes. as always
    created: '2005-12-28 14:11:27'
  created: '2005-12-28 13:09:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sounds like a lot of folks around here plan to be, well, needing a designated
    driver soon? :-)\r\n\r\nCheers! clink!  (the sound of a glass of 7 star Metaxa
    toasting you all) :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/metaxa.jpg]"
  created: '2005-12-28 14:24:04'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Or a scotch tasting club!
  created: '2005-12-28 14:54:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Santa gifted me with an IOU for money toward a trip to England for my birthday,
    several gift certificates (as I'm not so easy to shop for), and a few other things
    that fit nicely into my stocking.\r\n\r\nThe highlight though was my mom pranking
    all of us with her sudden ability to play Silent Night on a flute. She started
    taking lessons on the DL in October and had us all convinced it was some sort
    of trick. \r\n\r\nOh and getting to see my  new nephew. He's so tiny.\r\n\r\nI
    bought the KERN jacket for my boyfriend in the fall. It seems as if there will
    be many of those all of the world now. I love it!"
  created: '2005-12-28 16:58:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But aren't stems useful for preventing the hand's\r\nwarmth from affecting
    the wine's temperature?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-28 18:48:34'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "^\r\nThis is the drawback of that style glass. But for everyday, most wine
    drinkers don't get all the details right. I do well to locate a relatively decent
    bottle of the basic varietals before they fade, and often warm the wine in the
    glass with the heat of my hand to bring it around. Clearly those stemless glasses
    are more of an issue with whites."
  created: '2005-12-28 19:43:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'Note that I am not planning on drinking <em>wine</em> from the stemless Riedel
    glasses: I''m reserving those specifically for scotch. I tried them out last night,
    and they concentrate the aroma wonderfully. My wife took a sniff of my glass of
    Lagavulin and practically flew across the room :)'
  created: '2005-12-28 22:14:35'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Or a scotch tasting club!</em>\r\n\r\nThere's been a little talk about
    having the ATypI conference in Edinburgh one of these years. It looks like we
    could probably round up a fair number of scotch imbibing typographers for a peaty
    evening."
  created: '2005-12-28 22:17:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...been a little talk about having the ATypI conference in Edinburgh ...
    fair number of scotch imbibing typographers...\"\r\n\r\nWell I guess I'll have
    to have my Metaxa in Thesaloniki in 2007 then--there might be a few folks around
    there who would have a glass with me :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-28 22:43:11'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I'm in.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2005-12-28 23:07:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I never really 'got' Metaxa, but I'll join you for an ouzo.
  created: '2005-12-29 02:42:28'
- author:
    name: andi emery
    picture: 110007
  body: Edinburgh?! Count me in! And yes Hrant, this seems to be the dilemma with
    Riedel's white wine glasses but I think John's found a perfect use for them. Chris,
    methinks you'll find a drinking partner no matter what you are drinking!
  created: '2005-12-29 02:47:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That's a deal John, just don't break any plates :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-29 04:09:07'
- author:
    name: dylan
    picture: 128368
  body: "John said: \"I never really \u2018got\u2019 Metaxa, but I\u2019ll join you
    for an ouzo.\"\r\n\r\nOuzo! Ouch-o! You're tougher than me, John. I just can't
    enjoy that stuff!  :P"
  created: '2005-12-29 10:42:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "And I'll toast you with a <a href=\"http://www.greenekingipa.co.uk/\">beer</a>
    or two.\r\nHappy 2006.\r\nTim"
  created: '2005-12-29 13:31:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Greene King\" sounds good!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-29 14:04:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>In both </em>the solid form of language<em> and </em>Typographia polyglotta<em>
    they mention the Serbo-Croatian script situation, which I haven\u2019t been aware
    of before. I think it\u2019ll make an excellent conversation piece on the New
    years eve party we\u2019re having. No?</em>\r\n\r\nThe 'linguistic cleansing'
    that took place during the break-up of Yugoslavia is a sad but interesting adjunct
    to that script situation. The Croats were the most dedicated in this regard --
    there was a proposal to abolish all words of Serbian origin, approx. 30% of the
    typical vocabulary if I recall correctly; an official insistence that Croatian
    and Serbian were totally different, mutually unintelligible languages; and renewed
    interest in a Nazi-era spelling reform that would have obscured the etymology
    of most words --, but my favourite bit of weirdness came from the Bosnian Serbs,
    who for a while during the war required school children to write even their English
    language homework in the Cyrillic script."
  children:
  - author:
      name: fredo
      picture: 110623
    body: "<cite>The \u2018linguistic cleansing\u2019 that took place during the break-up
      of Yugoslavia is a sad but interesting adjunct to that script situation. The
      Croats were the most dedicated in this regard \u2014 there was a proposal to
      abolish all words of Serbian origin, approx. 30% of the typical vocabulary if
      I recall correctly; an official insistence that Croatian and Serbian were totally
      different, mutually unintelligible languages; and renewed interest in a Nazi-era
      spelling reform that would have obscured the etymology of most words \u2014,
      but my favourite bit of weirdness came from the Bosnian Serbs, who for a while
      during the war required school children to write even their English language
      homework in the Cyrillic script.</cite>\r\n\r\n<strong>I find this very interesting.
      I'd be interested if anyone's written more extensive on the matter. </strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
    created: '2005-12-29 22:03:27'
  created: '2005-12-29 18:11:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ouzo is great. But 'araq is better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-29 19:13:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Trouble is Hrant, I have Araqnaphobia :-)\r\nChrisL\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spiderAraq.jpg]"
  created: '2005-12-29 19:41:46'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> But \u2018araq is better\r\n\r\nI didn't hear that word for  a loooong
    time :)"
  created: '2005-12-29 19:50:48'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "my lovely girlfriend gave me the \"typography\" hoodie from Veer,\r\n\r\nand
    i also got a bunch of cool books:\r\n\r\nAnatomy of a Typeface, \r\nThinking with
    Type\r\nLogo, Font, and Lettering Bible\r\n\r\ni hope you all enjoy your holidays
    and have a safe and prosperous new year!\r\n\r\n--------------------------------\r\nnc\r\n\r\n\r\nbtw\r\nwe
    also got the stemless Riedel glasses which are very nice because i normally drink
    my red wine in a short glass! they are great!\r\n"
  created: '2005-12-29 19:53:36'
- author:
    name: matteson
    picture: 110454
  body: "My brother got me Spencer's <em>Pioneers of Modern Typography</em>.\r\n\r\nAnd
    some students of mine (somehow) gave me a copy of Book One of Euclid, designed
    by Bruce Rogers. Yowza.\r\n\r\nNon-typographically, I also got <em>The Dialogues
    of Plato</em> (set in Palatino -- brrr), and Rilke's <em>Letters to a Young Poet</em>
    (set in Novarese -- ech)."
  created: '2005-12-29 22:23:04'
- author:
    name: Hildebrant
    picture: 110392
  body: "Andi:\r\nThe last women that said this: \"I prefer the weight of a heavy
    glass in my hand and the peatier the scotch, the better!\" -- I almost married.\r\nI
    love a women who loves scotch! (period)"
  created: '2005-12-29 22:55:25'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I got a dutch chocolate letter \"P\", and a basket of what has come affectionately
    to be called 'dad's stinky food': various odd cheeses, herring filets, black lumpfish,
    kippers, antipastos and the like with a tasty port. \r\n\r\nTonight it's a hogmanay
    event with haggis and no doubt a Scotch or two at the Gibson House. Saturday night
    it will be Dutch Genever or Bols Advocaat. The genever is a tribute to Henk Krijger
    (Raffia Initials) the Advocaat to my mother, a kindly Calvinist woman who indulged
    only it, and only during the Christmas season.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-29 22:58:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I find this very interesting. I\u2019d be interested if anyone\u2019s
    written more extensive on the matter.</em>\r\n\r\nI read a very good article on
    the subject in the late 1990s, but have not been able to find it again."
  created: '2005-12-29 22:59:06'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Lagavulin... mmmmm. \r\n\r\nI ended up ordering the Veer Kern zipup for a
    fellow type-geek.\r\n\r\nBut my best gift was to myself: brand new G5 2 gig iMac
    with 20\" LCD screen! It is so beautiful and 5x as fast as the old G4 tower it
    just replaced. Best part was getting rid of the honking 20\" old school monitor
    that has been parked on my desk for five years now. I'm smokin' baby, smokin'!"
  created: '2005-12-30 04:34:43'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "My lovely girlfriend gave me Jan Tschichold's <em>Erfreuliche Drucksachen
    durch gute Typographie</em> for Christmas (well, Advent, really) this year. My
    birthday was also recently, and I got a bunch of typographic presents then, including:\r\n\r\n<em>Typolemik/Typophil</em>
    by Hans-Peter Willberg\r\n<em>Thinking with Type</em> by Ellen Lupton\r\n<em>Chronik
    der D. Stempel AG 1895\u20131955</em> by the [[D. Stempel AG]] (and set in [[Gudrun
    Zapf von Hesse]]'s lovely [[Diotima]])\r\n\r\nLastly, I also tend to give myself
    presents for Christmas. This year was <em>Indie Fonts 1 and 2</em> and P22's 10-year
    anniversary book!"
  created: '2005-12-30 13:30:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Happy Birthday Dan!  When was it?\r\n\r\nAnd your girlfriend is a sure-fire
    winner! Be kind to her.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-30 20:39:03'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: My birthday was on December 4th.
  created: '2005-12-30 23:37:33'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: <GASP!> How could a moderator's birthday be forgotten? No love for the "Typophile"
    crew?
  created: '2005-12-31 03:12:14'
date: '2005-12-25 18:38:53'
title: So, what did you get?

---
