---
author:
  name: Palatine
  picture: 110988
body: "I've noticed that the first few words - sometimes one, other times 3 or more,
  are in small caps at the beginning of paragraphs in some of the better books I own.
  These words in small caps usually appear at the beginning of a chapter (first paragraph
  of a chapter.)\r\n\r\nI'm wondering how many words one should put in small caps.
  Just the first word? Two? Three or four? Is there a standard, or is it a typographical
  decision left up to the writer?"
comments:
- author:
    name: krisbrowne42
  body: "Is there a colophon in any of those books that might reference a style guide?\r\n\r\nHere
    are some good starting points, though I didn't see anything in them relating to
    Typography explicitly, may still contain useful information:\r\n\r\nThe Economist
    Magazine style guide\r\nhttp://www.economist.com/research/StyleGuide/\r\n\r\nThe
    BBC style guide\r\nhttp://www.bbctraining.com/onlineCourse.asp?tID=5487&cat=3\r\n\r\nThe
    Guardian style guide\r\nhttp://www.guardian.co.uk/styleguide/0,5817,184913,00.html\r\n\r\nAnd
    of course, the Wikipedia entry on the subject, complete with more links\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Style_guide"
  created: '2005-12-30 21:48:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The main use I have seen of this is when drop caps are used to begin a chapter.
    The first word used (initial drop capped) is set in small caps.  I have not seen
    more than one word but this is not a style manual talking so don't quite me.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2005-12-30 22:30:58'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Whether started with a drop cap (initial) or simply led in with small caps,
    I follow the style that uses a phrase or a partial statement:\r\n\r\nAT THE OUTSET
    there was no etc.,\r\nIN HIS HASTE he dropped a wrench etc.,\r\n\r\nIf one sets
    only the first word in small caps the lead-ins can look inconsistent, like when
    the first word is ony two letters. Using a two, three, or even four word small
    cap lead-in tends to give one a little more to work with in setting a consistent
    look to each chapter.\r\n\r\nIt's also very nice to moderately thinspace the small
    cap lead-in.\r\n\r\nJim \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2005-12-31 00:15:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I basically do as Jim suggests. I've use drop cap and the rest of the line
    as smallcaps, but this can become hellish to balance with weird word lengths.
  created: '2005-12-31 00:19:40'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "I have seen all small caps for the first line (after an initial) and I like
    that better than a fixed (low) number of words. I think the idea behind using
    sc's after an initial is that the contrast between an initial (dropped or raised)
    and lowercase following that is somewhat harsh\u2026 (Please correct me if I'm
    wrong).\r\nI'm gonna look into this tomorrow \u2014 have to find my copy of Van
    Krimpens\u2018s \u201DBook\u201D\u2026"
  created: '2006-01-02 20:31:40'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Thanks for the comments, everyone.\r\n\r\nThere seems to be no fixed standard.
    I have yet to see a complete line in small caps. The most I've seen is five words.
    Perhaps I've seen more and it's only because I'm beginning to notice it now that
    my memory has become selective."
  created: '2006-01-02 21:42:32'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I think people use it for emphasis, like a pull quote without as much fuss.
    I don't know the precedent, could be a bad trend. Looking at a Wenda Gu book and
    noticed that the intos and forward had used this technique. I kinda like it.
  created: '2006-01-02 21:56:50'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "The use of all caps, small caps, and even caps with small caps varies greatly
    in history, from country to country, publisher to publisher, and in context with
    the subject of the book (novel, poetry, prose, non-fiction, title page, content
    page, list of bookplates, indices, etc.).\r\n\r\nI had always found these variations
    interesting, and in the past would emulate, mix-and-match, innovate or knowingly
    violate the convention. So it's fair to say, there ARE NO RULES, but stylistic
    preferences.\r\n\r\nOf note, the first word in a poem, whether using large drop
    cap or not, was frequently in cap-small caps:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.hti.umich.edu/cgi/t/text/pageviewer-idx?c=moa;cc=moa;rgn=full%20text;idno=acs3105.0001.001;didno=ACS3105.0001.001;view=image;seq=7;page=root;size=s;frm=frameset;\"
    target=\"new\"><em>The courtship of Miles Standish,: and other poems./ By Henry
    Wadsworth Longfellow</em></a>\r\n\r\nBut in this case, the poem starts with a
    large drop cap followed by caps:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.hti.umich.edu/cgi/t/text/pageviewer-idx?c=moa;cc=moa;rgn=full%20text;idno=aqj4170.0001.001;didno=AQJ4170.0001.001;view=image;seq=13;page=root;size=s;frm=frameset;\"
    target=\"new\"><em>Ballads of New England,: by John Greenleaf Whittier</em></a>\r\n\r\nInteresting
    style usage of caps and small caps within the context of Dictionary definitions:\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.hti.umich.edu/cgi/t/text/pageviewer-idx?c=moa;cc=moa;rgn=full%20text;idno=aek7340.0001.001;didno=AEK7340.0001.001;view=image;seq=10;page=root;size=s;frm=frameset;target=\"new\">MILITARY
    DICTIONARY, published by D. Van Nostrand, New York, 1861.</a>\r\n\r\nSometimes
    I've seen only the first word in caps or caps/small caps, and sometimes I've seen
    the entire first line done in a combination of all caps followed by cap/small
    caps.\r\n\r\nI think I've shown this piece I did at Compugraphic in 1981 --\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CG_48-2.jpg]"
  created: '2006-01-02 23:26:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Norbert,\r\nI would love to have a PDF of that TUSCALOOSA to print for my
    office wall. \r\nTrip to Africa--$100,000; Elephant Ears for desert--$5.25; A
    copy of Norberts \"LOOSA\", Priceless!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-03 00:03:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I agree with Jim, this is a semi-editorial decision based on the structure
    of the initial sentence, and if possible you should try to match the extent of
    the smallcaps to a phrase or clause or some other distinct part of speech.
  created: '2006-01-03 02:17:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Not all small caps are the same size, relative to the lower case x-height.\r\n\r\nI've
    found that if the small cap is short, it might have to be increased half a point. "
  created: '2006-01-03 20:06:01'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "QuarkXPress used to have an awful default setting for *fake* small caps,
    I think it was around 60% height. I used to increase that to 70% and stretch horizontally
    105\u2013110%. Some added tracking would help too\u2026 Don't know what the people
    at Quark's have done with that lately.\r\n\r\nThank god for real sc's an otf.
    And InDesign, of course."
  created: '2006-01-04 10:46:59'
- author:
    name: Rob Mientjes
    picture: 111251
  body: "Seconding dezcom here. That is and would be awesome.\r\n\r\nOh, and to make
    sure I actually say something useful, a complete first line set in small caps
    <em>can</em> be a bit too heavy if the paragraph or text has few lines. I myself
    prefer the practice of applying small caps to the first part of the sentence,
    like jim_rimmer posted."
  created: '2006-01-05 17:14:31'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I've done it both ways, the entire first line or just a first phrase or lead-in.
    Sometimes in a different font, size, or color. Editorially I don't know of any
    hard and fast rule, I just try to choose a phrase that makes sense and kind of
    stands alone, as Jim suggested.
  created: '2006-01-05 17:53:08'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<cite>QuarkXPress used to have an awful default setting for *fake* small
    caps, I think it was around 60% height. I used to increase that to 70% and stretch
    horizontally 105\u2013110%. Some added tracking would help too\u2026 Don\u2019t
    know what the people at Quark\u2019s have done with that lately.\r\n\r\n\r\nThank
    god for real sc\u2019s an otf. And InDesign, of course.</cite>\r\n\r\nI was just
    thinking about this recently, how InDesign straight up tells you 'Ok, this typeface
    has small caps, push this button and you're good to go. If the button isn't available
    then go find another face that does have SC.' In Quark you just have the default
    Style settings Plain/Bold/Italic/All Caps/All Lowercase/Small Caps etc. and there's
    no real intuitive way to know if those settings are real or faux. I always use
    the sub-faces for Italic/Bold etc but you don't have that option for SC. Suggestions
    for us Quark users?"
  created: '2006-01-05 17:55:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I suggest that Quark users lobby Quark heavily as I used to do.  I quit doing
    it eventually though because I got fed up with Quark's lack of respnse to customer
    needs. I switched to InDesign 2 years ago and would not go back to Quark even
    if it were free. I know some clients want Quark and my condolances if you have
    Quark as a stipulation in your work.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-05 18:02:01'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: I use Quark here at work and was taught Quark at school so that is my dilemna.
    I'm starting to feel like InDesign is better with setting type these days, perhaps
    I need to finally break down and teach myself how to use it. It seems like InDesign
    is more friendly with our new explosion of the OpenTypeFormat.
  created: '2006-01-05 18:06:08'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "David,\r\nAvoid those style settings altogether. Many output devices ignore
    the selections and anyway they can be mechanical versions. For small caps look
    for a font in the sub-menu with SC at the end of the name, for example, Adobe
    Garamond > AGaramond RegularSC. One of the many problems with Quark is that style
    option menu. Instead of all their web-friendly options that were offered as new
    generations since version 4 they should have concentrated on refining the typesetting
    aspects. Quark should (according to them) be supporting OpenType in the next generation.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-01-06 15:52:08'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Thanks Tim, my confusion comes just at that fact though. Like I said in one
    of my above posts, I avoid the style settings, but for example we have <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/48092/warnock-family.html?PHPSESSID=4969a109eef2ad572d7c5fa32c14136e\">Warnock
    Pro</a> here at work and here's a screenshot from Quark that I just took:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/warnock.gif]\r\nSmall
    Caps is included in all the weights but DOES NOT show up in the Weight menu of
    the typeface. Sorry to hijack the thread, but do you see my confusion?"
  created: '2006-01-06 16:41:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>InDesign straight up tells you \u2018Ok, this typeface has small caps,
    push this button and you\u2019re good to go. If the button isn\u2019t available
    then go find another face that does have SC.</em>\r\n\r\nIs that new with CS2?\r\nI
    don't have that version yet. The way things are in CS \"1\", there is no way of
    telling (from the menu) whether the small caps you're getting with an OpenType
    font are faux or real. Just like Quark etc.\r\n\r\nIdeally, there should be a
    mouseover action attached to the \"small caps\" button, with the window pop-up,
    \"WARNING!: you are about to use FAUX small caps which will signal to the world
    that YOU DON'T KNOW DICK ABOUT TYPOGRAPHY\", if true small caps are not available."
  created: '2006-01-06 22:54:16'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: 'I guess I was thinking about OpenType, in InDesign CS2 under the Character
    Palatte > Open Type you see all your options: Swashes, Small Caps etc. and the
    features that aren''t available have brackets around them and don''t do anything
    when you click on them. Someone correct me if I''m wrong here!'
  created: '2006-01-06 23:05:53'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Now I see your problem David, not something that I've had to face yet. When
    you use the style sheet does it change to the genuine small caps or just scaled
    uppercase?\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-01-07 10:01:43'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: David, you can't use the small caps in Warnock Pro in Quark at all. Quark
    XPress doesn't support OpenType yet. The small caps in Warnock Pro are not available
    as separate fonts; they are OpenType features inside the regular fonts' character
    sets. Sorry :(
  created: '2006-01-07 15:02:44'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Umm no OpenType in Quark? >:-o If that isn't a reason for me to start learning
    InDesign, I don't know what is. My professors will get a word about this when
    I get back to classes in April!\r\n\r\nTimD: I don't know what happens, I'll let
    you know on Monday but as Dan says, evidently I can't use it at all. So I'm sure
    it'll just be the faux replica :-(."
  created: '2006-01-07 19:43:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>My professors will get a word about this when I get back to classes in
    April!</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps Quark will have released v.7 by then, which is slated
    to be have full OpenType support (or, shall we say, at least as much as InDesign).\r\n\r\nHowever,
    it's not really the purpose of design school to train workers how to use the latest
    technology, although the manufacturers would no doubt like it that way.\r\n\r\nYou
    will have plenty of time on the upgrade treadmill once you graduate David. It's
    not about the software."
  created: '2006-01-07 20:05:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick is right. It is not about software, that stuff comes and goes (in the
    case of Quark goes should be gone). Spend your time learning about design and
    communication.  By the time you are a few years out of school, the tools will
    have changed. The tools I used in school have been gathering dust for years but
    I still use the knowledge I gained in design problem solving.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-07 20:28:23'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "I didn't mean it in the sense that I think they should change over, I just
    think that when we learn Quark it should be mentioned that it doesn't support
    OpenType! (as of now anyways, maybe it will by the time I get back).\r\n\r\nI'm
    actually glad we use Quark, because it's been the industry standard for such a
    long time that most of the jobs we go into will most likely be using it in the
    design studio, case in point my job at RCA. It was one of the questions I was
    asked in my interview, if I knew how to use Quark. Evidently some schools are
    just teaching InDesign and that seems backwards.\r\n\r\nI understand it's not
    what you use, it's how you use it, thanks for the words though, guys!"
  created: '2006-01-07 23:02:31'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>some schools are just teaching InDesign and that seems backwards</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    isn't anything backwards about that at all. In fact, little could be more forward.
    Although it is just as possible to make great work in Quark, or even is an old
    version of PageMaker, InDesign will be the next standard bearer. The world has
    seen this coming since at least 2001. We are in 2006 now. Lots of great big ad
    agencies the world over use InDesign. No school that teaches InDesign is handicaping
    their students, at least from a software-usage point of view (Chris' comment about
    the tools is spot on\u2026 even if you had known InDesign and not Quark, you probably
    would have gotten your job now anyway David\u2026 once you've learned a few of
    the big programs, the rest can be learned in a snap. I'm sure you could have taught
    yourself Quark overnight if you had had to)."
  created: '2006-01-08 00:32:03'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Fair enough, I'm talking myself in circles again and have derailed another
    thread. Thanks for your thoughts though, just thinking out loud really.
  created: '2006-01-08 01:44:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201CWARNING!: you are about to use FAUX small caps which will\r\n> signal
    to the world that YOU DON\u2019T KNOW DICK ABOUT TYPOGRAPHY\u201D\r\n\r\nTo the
    world? I wish. More like to font freaks...  :-/\r\nFaux smallcaps are the norm,
    even in the most\r\nprestigious projects. Which is why I feel bad\r\nwasting the
    time making them... unless I can\r\ncharge an arm and a leg to those who care.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-14 01:52:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Faux smallcaps are the norm, even in the most\r\nprestigious projects.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah,
    like hash marks instead of proper \"curly\" quotes.\r\nAt least typophiles have
    plenty of opportunity to feel superior ;-)"
  created: '2006-01-14 04:37:09'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "OK... shoot me if you want to, but I use to entice \"high-end\" designers
    into purchasing full families of digital type fonts back in the Agfa MCS Digital
    Imagesetter days...\r\n\r\nSometime I would use the look of small cap titling
    and initial paragraph lead-ins by using a combo of type weights and sizes. Here's
    a test similar to what I did in promoting fonts --\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/JensonSmCp-test2.png]\r\n\r\nThe
    first line uses true cut small caps which is correct when setting lowercase charaters
    within the same line. (BTW -- I did not do any correcting of spacing/kerning on
    any of these tests, I just wanted to display relative character heights.)\r\n\r\nThe
    second example shows the light weight of Jenson in 40 pts and the \"small caps\"
    are simulated by using regular weight of Jenson at 32 pts. The combo looks more
    like a titling weight and to me balances nicely especially when set on its own
    line without lowercase to jar the x-height.\r\n\r\nI have a pdf if anyone wants
    a close-up look. I figured that using a type family in this way must have been
    very similar to how typographers built book plates and titling pages using a combination
    of hot metal point sizes and family weights. All in all it promoted the purchase
    of complete type families.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-14 16:54:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Norbert,\r\nIt only works if the weights balance at the sizes chosen (your
    GIF looks OK in that regard). That  was sometimes the only option back when we
    were young :-) \r\nIn this day of OTF, it is far easier to just buy the tool designed
    for the job. We should be making similar test showings of Caps with Small Caps
    and comparing the faked version (page makeup software dumps out) with the real
    McCoy from a quality opentype font which includes smcp by design. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-14 17:27:09'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Here ya go, Dez ol' boy --\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/JensonSmlCap-test3.png]\r\n\r\nQuite
    different eh wot?\r\nThe most dramatice difference is in the narrowness of the
    faux small cap \"H\" and height of the faux small caps. All in all it doesn't
    look too bad but it suffers mostly in the thins. (BTW -- this was all set using
    InDesign CS2 and Adobe Jenson Pro OTF.)\r\n\r\nMost graphic designers wouldn't
    take the time nor may have the notions to go through such options. Ultimately,
    the eye of the typophile (I don't even know if \"typographer\" is a valid distinction
    anymore) would make judgements based on the intent, content and desired affect
    on the reader. Everyone else would just click on the \"small cap\" menu option,
    n'est pas?"
  created: '2006-01-14 18:04:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Everyone else would just click on the \u201Csmall cap\u201D menu option,\"\r\n\r\nI
    fear you are right. We have some major educating to do don't we?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    Most people think Small Caps are stocks :-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.investopedia.com/articles/analyst/010502.asp"
  created: '2006-01-14 20:43:38'
- author:
    name: licK_Neo
    picture: 115030
  body: "The OED (sententious, a.) cites Luckombe, Philip -- [A concise history of
    the origin and progress of printing (anon.) 1770\r\n\u2014ed. 2, entitled The
    history and art of printing 1771]:\r\n\r\n1771 LUCKOMBE Hist. Printing 250 The
    first word of a new paragraph..is commonly put in Small Capitals... But this rule
    may be very well laid aside in matter which is too sententious and which would
    take up more Small Capitals than an ordinary..Fount could supply. Ibid. 386 Others
    are so sententious in their writing that they break off almost at every place
    that will admit of a Full-point.\r\n\r\n( The whole work 'The history and art
    of printing' 1771 is available for full, free access at http://books.google.com/books?id=kkI5AAAAMAAJ
    )\r\n\r\n~\r\nIt would seem that that versions of small-caps openings predate
    contemporary usage, and that they may have exceeded its scope. \r\n\r\nAlthough
    I haven't undertaken any systematic research of the matter, bert_vanderveen's
    guess seems a good one: <I think the idea behind using sc\u2019s after an initial
    is that the contrast between an initial (dropped or raised) and lowercase following
    that is somewhat harsh\u2026> Makes sense. Also, the large opening letter for
    chapters and stories used to be more common at the same time that small-caps usage
    seems to have been more common.\r\n\r\nI think jim_rimmer's remark <If one sets
    only the first word in small caps the lead-ins can look inconsistent, like when
    the first word is ony two letters. Using a two, three, or even four word small
    cap lead-in tends to give one a little more to work with in setting a consistent
    look to each chapter.> is dead-on, although aesthetically, I think there are pros
    and cons to a large leading letter with caps, or even a caps-only leader, under
    a chapter number and possibly title, graphic, et cetera. But more on chapter-openings
    later.\r\n\r\nThe convention of the large opening letter seems to be waning. Its
    primary use (that I've seen) now in modern print is mostly in a stylistic old-timesy
    manner in fantasy, romance, or other novels, or memoirs, or in print or online
    periodicals, e.g. The Economist, where a large opening capital (sometimes a non-type
    graphic) helps to balance the page. (Images or cartoons are often located in the
    bottom center or on the right margin of the page.)\r\n\r\nAlthough I'm sure the
    large opening letter is used in all sorts of books still in print -- usually with
    a short small-cap clip (I think about 3 words is most common.) -- it's worth noting
    that the small-caps opening of a paragraph seems to have taken on a new, or perhaps,
    depending upon the intention and context of the Luckombe quote, a revived usage:
    namely, that of accentuating sectional gaps (rather than toning down or making
    more palatable the accentuation accomplished by large opening letters). In a variety
    of books and other applications, small-caps leaders of three or four words are
    used to open a new section within the same chapter, essay, story, or article.
    In some books, these small-caps leaders are accompanied by minor or major leading
    letters, but generally they're not; and the distinctiveness of the usage can be
    seen from alternative methods used to achieve it, now. The same sort of sectional
    break is in other texts accomplished under bolded/italicized/underlined/small-capped/all-capped/imagized
    headings, etc; via demarcation of the text into section boxes or broken columns;
    or using stars, lines, asterisks, or other type/graphics above the first line
    of the new section, often centered in the page, or even left of (and separate
    from) the opening line.\r\n\r\nIn this manner, the small-caps lead-in has developed
    (or recovered, or enriched) a significant usage apart from that of chapter openings.
    There may even be a case for using small-cap lead-ins in a book, for instance,
    but not in chapter openings, only in sectional breaks. The practical effect of
    caps lead-ins, I would argue, is two-fold: (1) It accentuates the beginning of
    a description by providing a pause for the reader, along with a (sub)conscious
    realization that a new string of narrative or exposition is to begin. This provides
    the opportunity to recollect one's wits, take a sip of water, adjust one's glasses,
    change postures, reconsider the just-finished portion of text... the day... the
    weather... the birds... the time. It provides a firmer version of what the sentence,
    and particularly the paragraph, provides: a chance to get out, or at least pause.\r\n\r\n(2)
    It gives the caps-rendered words a sort of unique definition. Whereas prose is
    metered in word, phrase, sentence, and paragraph, in verse every word or sequence
    of two or more words is arguably imbued with pregnant meaning. Ambiguous syntax,
    line construction, and punctuation in poetry intensify this effect. A portion
    of prose may be said to hint severally at various interpretations, but the confines
    of Standard English syntax greatly reduce any actual uncertainty as to what the
    primary surface meaning of a given utterance is. Likewise, although punctuation,
    sentence configuration, word selection and arrangement, et cetera, can amplify
    or dampen verbal turns in the phrase, it is ultimately the reader's own apprehension
    of the text and internal rendering that defines the cadence of a passage read.
    Spoken aloud, a text may recover some of the multiplicity and uncertainty of verse,
    but only a portion. I would argue that the caps-rendered lead-in performs a sort
    of poetic, focusing function. It renders the first few, seemingly random, words
    of the passage apart, now, like a line or an artificial phrase. Even if the format
    is applied after-the-fact, of a later decision, still the delineation of lines
    in this fashion is certain to draw out some ubiquitous moments in the text. But
    if the author composes with an eye to the structure to begin with... surely (s)he
    is offered therein a unique, unobtrusive thrust of poetic verve to begin her prose.
    The focusing effect of opening caps can be seen in the reference of old (un)numbered
    poems, or new ones, according to the first full line, phrase, or opening words
    of the poem, or in the manner in which news stories or mimetic forms sometimes
    begin LOCATION: SPECIFIC LOCATION. TIME. Et cetera. It sets the scene.\r\n\r\nNow,
    fan though I clearly am of small-caps intros, I have a caveat: I'm not sure that
    they do more good than harm, in the opening of a chapter or (sometimes) a piece.
    Already the reader is outside of the text, having just finished a chapter, or
    another article, or another activity -- maybe a phone call. Does the reader need
    to be reminded: 'OK, you're about to plunge into this! OK.' I don't think so.
    Among sections, the interest built and maintained in the previous section keeps
    up the momentum of the read and encourages the reader to carry forward. The reader
    is also reassured by regular (though not flippant or excessive) sectional breaks:
    'OK', if I need to go get something to drink/pick up the kids/answer the door/move
    the laundry/check on the chicken/catch the next bus/etc etc... I can do it at
    the next break.' But beginning a chapter, book, or long article... the first introductory
    phrase, stark in caps and fanfare, implies the ENTIRE endeavor of the WHOLE READ!
    'I don't know if I have time to be starting War and Peace, I have to be sure dinner's
    ready by 5...' And whereas the phrase-making of the intro-caps lead-in, underlining
    in modest poetry the composed nature of the work, mid-thrust, at the beginning
    of a great reading endeavor surely such a reminder is more jarring and unsettling,
    than conspiratorial. The reader knows it all already. She doesn't want to be reminded.
    Don't give her extra excuses. Don't dredge up her fears and anxieties and hit
    her over the head with COMMITMENT! Ease 'er into it. I say: cap your sections;
    ease your chapters. But that's just me.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-22 02:06:22'
- author:
    name: licK_Neo
    picture: 115030
  body: "(edit)\r\n\r\nThe OED (sententious, a.) cites Luckombe, Philip \u2014 [A
    concise history of the origin and progress of printing (anon.) 1770\r\n\u2014ed.
    2, entitled The history and art of printing 1771]:\r\n\r\n1771 LUCKOMBE Hist.
    Printing 250 The first word of a new paragraph..is commonly put in Small Capitals...
    But this rule may be very well laid aside in matter which is too sententious and
    which would take up more Small Capitals than an ordinary..Fount could supply.
    Ibid. 386 Others are so sententious in their writing that they break off almost
    at every place that will admit of a Full-point.\r\n\r\n( The whole work \u2019The
    history and art of printing\u2019 1771 is available for full, free access at http://books.google.com/books?id=kkI5AAAAMAAJ
    )\r\n\r\n~\r\nIt would seem that that versions of small-caps openings predate
    contemporary usage, and that they may have exceeded its scope.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I haven\u2019t undertaken any systematic research of the matter, bert_vanderveen\u2019s
    guess seems a good one: \"I think the idea behind using sc\u2019s after an initial
    is that the contrast between an initial (dropped or raised) and lowercase following
    that is somewhat harsh\u2026\" Makes sense. Also, the large opening letter for
    chapters and stories used to be more common at the same time that small-caps usage
    seems to have been more common.\r\n\r\nI think jim_rimmer\u2019s remark (\"Using
    a two, three, or even four word small cap lead-in tends to give one a little more
    to work with in setting a consistent look to each chapter.\") is dead-on, although
    aesthetically, I think there are pros and cons to a large leading letter with
    caps, or even a caps-only leader, under a chapter number and possibly title, graphic,
    et cetera. But more on chapter-openings later.\r\n\r\nThe convention of the large
    opening letter seems to be waning. Its primary use (that I\u2019ve seen) now in
    modern print is mostly in a stylistic old-timesy manner in fantasy, romance, or
    other novels, or memoirs, or in print or online periodicals, e.g. The Economist,
    where a large opening capital (sometimes a non-type graphic) helps to balance
    the page. (Images or cartoons are often located in the bottom center or on the
    right margin of the page.)\r\n\r\nAlthough I\u2019m sure the large opening letter
    is used in all sorts of books, still, in print \u2014 usually with a short small-cap
    clip (I think about 3 words is most common.) \u2014 it\u2019s worth noting that
    the small-caps opening of a paragraph seems to have taken on a new, or perhaps,
    depending upon the intention and context of the Luckombe quote, a revived usage:
    namely, that of accentuating sectional gaps (rather than palliating the (over-)accentuation
    accomplished by large opening letters). In a variety of books and other applications,
    small-caps leaders of three or four words are used to open a new section within
    the same chapter, essay, story, or article. In some books, these small-caps leaders
    are accompanied by minor or major leading letters, but generally they\u2019re
    not; and the distinctiveness of the usage can be seen in alternative methods used
    to achieve it, now: the same sort of sectional break is in other texts accomplished
    under bolded/italicized/underlined/small-capped/all-capped/imagized headings,
    etc; via demarcation of the text into section boxes or broken columns; or using
    stars, lines, asterisks, or other type/graphics above the first line of the new
    section, often centered in the page, or even left of (and separate from) the opening
    line.\r\n\r\nIn this manner, the small-caps lead-in has developed (or recovered,
    or enriched) a significant usage apart from that of chapter openings. There may
    even be a case for using small-cap lead-ins in a book, for instance, but not in
    chapter openings, only in sectional breaks. The practical effect of caps lead-ins,
    I would argue, is two-fold: (1) They accentuate the beginning of a description
    by providing a pause for the reader, along with a (sub)conscious realization that
    a new string of narrative or exposition is to begin. This provides the opportunity
    to recollect one\u2019s wits, take a sip of water, adjust one\u2019s glasses,
    change postures, reconsider the just-finished portion of text... the day... the
    weather... the birds... the time. It provides a firmer version of what the sentence,
    and particularly the paragraph, provides, more generally: a chance to get out,
    or at least to pause.\r\n\r\n(2)The usage imbues the caps-rendered words with
    a sort of a sort of unique definition. Whereas prose is metered in word, phrase,
    sentence, and paragraph, in verse every word or sequence of two or more words
    is arguably imbued with pregnant meaning. Ambiguous syntax, line construction,
    and punctuation in poetry intensify this effect. A portion of prose may be said
    to hint severally at various interpretations, but the confines of Standard English
    syntax greatly reduce any actual uncertainty as to what the primary surface meaning
    of a given utterance is. (Puns are clearly the exception, rather than the rule.)
    Likewise, although punctuation, sentence configuration, word selection and arrangement,
    et cetera, can amplify or dampen verbal turns in the phrase, it is ultimately
    the reader\u2019s own apprehension of the text and internal rendering that defines
    the cadence of a passage read. Spoken aloud, a text may recover some of the multiplicity
    and uncertainty of verse, but only a portion.\r\n\r\nI would argue that the caps-rendered
    lead-in performs a sort of poetic, focusing function. It renders the first few,
    seemingly random, words of the passage apart, now, like a line or an artificial
    phrase. Even if the format is applied after-the-fact, of a later decision, still
    the delineation of lines in this fashion is certain to draw out some ubiquitous
    moments in the text. But if the author composes with an eye to the structure to
    begin with... surely (s)he is offered therein a unique, unobtrusive thrust of
    poetic verve to begin her prose. The focusing effect of opening caps can be seen
    in the reference of old (un)numbered poems, or new ones, according to the first
    full line, phrase, or opening words of the poem; or in the manner in which news
    stories or mimetic forms sometimes begin LOCATION: SPECIFIC LOCATION. TIME. Et
    cetera. It sets the scene.\r\n\r\n~\r\nNow, fan though I clearly am of small-caps
    intros, I have a caveat: I\u2019m not sure that they do more good than harm, in
    the opening of a chapter or (sometimes) a piece. Already the reader is outside
    of the text, having just finished a chapter, or another article, or another activity
    \u2014 maybe a phone call. Does the reader need to be reminded: \u2019OK, you\u2019re
    about to plunge into this! OK.\u2019 I don\u2019t think so. Among sections, the
    interest built and maintained in the previous section keeps up the momentum of
    the read and encourages the reader to carry forward. The reader is also reassured
    by regular (though not flippant or excessive) sectional breaks: \u2019OK.' / 'If
    I need to go get something to drink/pick up the kids/answer the door/move the
    laundry/check on the chicken/catch the next bus/etc etc... I can do it at the
    next break.\u2019 But beginning a chapter, book, or long article... the first
    introductory phrase, stark in caps and fanfare, implies the ENTIRE endeavor of
    the WHOLE READ! \u2019I don\u2019t know if I have time to be starting War and
    Peace, I have to be sure dinner\u2019s ready by 5...\u2019 And whereas the phrase-making
    of the intro-caps lead-in, mid-thrust, underlines in modest poetry the composed
    nature of the work, at the beginning of a great reading endeavor surely such a
    reminder is more jarring and unsettling, than conspiratorial. The reader knows
    it all already. She doesn\u2019t want to be reminded. Don\u2019t give her extra
    excuses. Don\u2019t dredge up her fears and anxieties and hit her over the head
    with COMMITMENT! Ease \u2019er into it. I say: cap your sections; ease your chapters.
    But that\u2019s just me.\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-22 16:31:12'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "my rule of thumb is as many words as make up the first fragment of the sentence.\r\n\r\nlets
    try it with: I walked into the bank with a song in my heart and a gun in my hand.\r\n\r\nI
    WALKED INTO the bank with a song in my heart and a gun in my hand.\r\n\r\n^ too
    short\r\n\r\nI WALKED INTO THE BANK with a song in my heart and a gun in my hand.\r\n\r\n^
    just right\r\n\r\nI WALKED INTO THE BANK WITH A SONG in my heart and a gun in
    my hand.\r\n\r\n^ too long.\r\n\r\n\r\nThink of the part in small caps on it's
    own. \"I walked into\" doesn't say enough, \"I walked into the bank\" says something
    on it's own, even though the thought isn't done.\r\n\r\nbest of luck, I don't
    think there's a rule per se, but it's tough to pick sometimes."
  created: '2008-05-26 21:08:13'
date: '2005-12-30 21:10:05'
node_type: forum
title: Correct use of small caps at the beginning of a paragraph

---
