---
author:
  name: orso2932
body: 'Your last suggestions were great not for the next letter or letters. I thought
  it would be better to combine the two. My explination. I am wanting to know everybodys
  tips,opinions, and advice on designing the uppercase B and lowercase b. Are there
  any problems you encounter. Suggestions on how to attack it. Things you should pay
  attention to. I understand the whole typeface affects it and it will be addressed
  but i am more concerned with just the two letters for now. Please look at it as
  for someone who know nothing about type design. This is for my thesis and i just
  wanted to see what everyone had to say before i write the chapters. Thanks alot
  and i look forward to you opinions. '
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Are you going to ask ask 26 different questions? Perhaps it would be best
    to ask if anyone has any tips for designing certain letters\u2026 then you could
    see what answers come our of the fray?\r\n\r\nThe lowercase b, d, p, and q are
    often [almost] the same form, just flipped or rotated. Then again, they are often
    completely different!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: orso2932
    body: 'I was going to but i think you idea is probably better. Didnt think of
      it. '
    created: '2006-01-01 23:30:40'
  created: '2006-01-01 18:17:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What other kinds of research are you doing on this? Have you read any books
    on the subject?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-02 00:57:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: This is a Thesis? or an Askis? Would you like us to make you coffee for a
    few weeks? Carry your Groceries and make your bed?  Children know the meta-forms,
    Open you eyes and think about it and all will be revealed, Ask and it will be
    obscured by thousands of details you don't need  to know from people who know
    no more than you need to for this assignment, really, myself included.
  created: '2006-01-02 13:09:40'
- author:
    name: orso2932
  body: 'What is an Askis? NO i told you i am aking yall just to see if there is anything
    else I have information already. I have gather I would say close to 150 books
    on type. But i have only found about 15 on type design. Mostly the ones from people
    i have interviewed and other people. there just isnt much out there one the subject
    that isnt just pictures. Im just trying to do a good job and get as much information
    as i can. The problem is to get it you have to ask people for it. '
  created: '2006-01-02 13:58:34'
- author:
    name: edeverett
    picture: 109635
  body: "Jason, try looking in the Critique sections of this forum. Many (most?) of
    the problems encountered making letters show up there, and get discussed with
    examples. It's a great resource.\r\n\r\nEd."
  created: '2006-01-02 15:04:54'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "\"The problem is to get it you have to ask people for it.\"\r\n\r\nIsn't
    it though?  ;)\r\n\r\nJason, your posts about Letter A, Letter B and Type Design
    Movements sound like you are just getting started with research into your project.
    Is this the case? If so, I hope you are not starting out with the premise that
    research is a bother. Other posts you've made imply that this project represents
    an obstacle to you and little else. Given your disregard for research, reading
    and punctuation, how far do you expect to get? Will someone else do the writing?
    Read the original post you made to open your \"letter B\" thread. To me it carries
    a tone of entitlement and of disinterest, as if you are just carrying out a tiresome
    chore, one which you expect we will perform for you. \r\n\r\nI struggle attempting
    to answer your questions, because they are quite open-ended; they represent the
    beginning of a very arcane, detailed and subtle adventure, one you don't sound
    very interested in. \r\n\r\nI'll reply with a question: What kind of B? (Clues:
    Serif or Sans, Roman or Italic, formal or informal, script or.....). This may
    help you re-formulate your question about Type Design Movements. \r\n\r\nI reply
    with a question because the answer would otherwise be so layered, so packed with
    conditions and disclaimers, that it would quickly seem irrelevant, unintelligible,
    or both. Typefaces are made for particular purposes, and they are systems of interchangeable
    parts. Not only do the various letters influence each other, but the intended
    use of the typeface influences everything, down to the size of the dot on the
    i. Seriously. If you hope to get feedback that you can use, you may have to put
    more thought into your questions.  "
  children:
  - author:
      name: orso2932
    body: "Too answer your remarks. I am very interested in the subject that is why
      I picked it. The problem is finding the information. There is hardly non-on
      the subject of type design. There are a lot of pretty examples but nothing explaining
      the complications of developing the shape or face. Like the uppercase H. How
      you should place the bar a little higher for best optical effect. Or how when
      designing your n can turn into your h or two n\u2019s get your m. Stuff like
      that. I have had no class on type design and out of the 150 typography books
      I have 8 actually talk about the science of designing a letter. \r\n\r\nLettering
      (Thomas Wood Stevens), Anatomy of Lettering (Russell Laker), Fonts and Logos,
      Logotypes and Letterforms (Doyald Young) Lettering for Advertising (Mortimer
      Leach), Lettering for Reproduction (David Gates), The Alphabet and Elements
      of Lettering (Fredrick Goudy), and Roman Lettering (LC Evetts).\r\n\r\n All
      out of print. So if you know of any books on type design or places to look please
      tell me and I will leave you alone. \r\n\r\nI have some fascinating ones on
      the history but sense I was am out of town for the holiday break and could only
      carry a few on the plane is the reason for the type movement question. That
      one I was being lazy. \r\n\r\nThese others yall are suppose to be the experts.
      And as you can see there is not much as of books so I thought I would ask. So
      cut me some slack. I\u2019m sure yall asked several people what to do when yall
      were trying to figure it out. Its more complicate then drawing a letter. I\u2019m
      learning that everyday. \r\n\r\nAs for the open-endedness. It is open-ended.
      I just want you to talk about the letterform. Some things to look out for, problems
      you face, common frustrations or tips you have figured out. Yall have the experience
      not me.  I don\u2019t care if it is serif, san serif, italic, or script. I just
      want to know everything you are willing to give me on the letter. That is all.
      \r\n\r\nYOU ARE NOT WRITING MY THESIS FOR ME. I will just simply add your information
      with mine the I WILL WRITE IT MY SELF. If it sucks you write one, any one write
      one then I wouldn\u2019t have to. I could write a meaningless one on branding
      like everyone else. \r\n"
    created: '2006-01-04 14:07:27'
  created: '2006-01-04 06:39:08'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://typophile.com/wiki/Books\r\n\r\nThe wiki has some books (not all have
    an article attached to them yet). The problems/opportunities faced when designing
    letters for, for example, <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/search?search%5Btext%5D=bell+centennial\">Bell
    Centennial</a> are clearly different to those of <a href=\"http://www.typography.com/catalog/requiem/index.html\">Requiem
    Display</a>. Perhaps you should look at a general approach to a design, what the
    designer would want to know before going ahead and designing, what is the purpose,
    maybe, then identify design decisions that have to be made from that base, rather
    than try to define a single method of designing a character which will always
    have exceptions to the 'rule'. I suspect you will have to narrow your subject
    in order to write a coherent thesis. \r\nAlso dissecting and overlaying letterforms
    will show that the m is rarely two ns, this is also a useful technique when examining
    other letterforms.\r\n<em>I don\u2019t care if it is serif, san serif, italic,
    or script. I just want to know everything you are willing to give me on the letter.</em>
    the trouble is that there are different considerations in each case, but you are
    aware of the basic shapes of B and b.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-01-04 15:14:51'
- author:
    name: orso2932
  body: "Thanks. I am wanting to point toward non display type. Display types have
    very little rules to it. (I could be wrong) Just try to make it look like an A,
    B or C. \r\n\r\nI understand their is a difference between Roman and Italics but
    how big a difference is there between serif and san serif?"
  created: '2006-01-04 15:57:28'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Jason,\r\n\r\nI'm not trying to get you to \"leave us alone\". I just think
    your questions raise more questions than you are prepared for. I wonder if you
    have tried using abebooks.com or Amazon to find used copies of the out-of-print
    books you listed? Also, the resources listed in the wiki are very helpful. \"Anatomy
    of a Typeface\" by Alexander Lawson is especially good for some of your initial
    questions. \r\n\r\n\"How big a difference is there between a Sans and a Serif\",
    is a question which might take 30 people 2 weeks to answer to your satisfaction.
    Could you rephrase this? I don't really know where to begin. Suppose you start
    with a specific question about the difference between the structure of b in Jenson
    and in Univers, for example. \r\n\r\nEverything I know about the letter B is not
    likely to get you anywhere. I makes sense for you to pick an example, like a serif
    typeface for books, to begin with, in asking about letter design. The answers
    for that scenario are different than the answers for a sans for phone books, a
    condensed sans for highway signage, or a trendy serif face for a magazine. So,
    it might help you get farther if you did care if it is sans, serif, etc. Think
    of it as a test case which can be exlored fully, then contrasted with another
    test case to show the many, many exceptions to every rule.\r\n\r\nYour comment
    about \"having to\" write a thesis on the topic belies your impatience. I'm afraid
    there is no place where you can find all the information you need about this enormous
    topic. I suspect everyone who is actively designing type now has followed a very
    faint, very lonely, slow trail to discover what they know. Often, essential concepts
    like contrast or letterspacing require more experience than book knowledge to
    really grasp. Each book you encounter is likely to provide some bit of information
    you can combine with other bits to form an idea of the steps required to design
    a typeface, but short of actually designing a typeface, your results may be limited.
    This may be why it is hard to collect the information in one place. Even a book
    like \"Designing Typefaces\" by David Earls doesn't cover everything. \r\n\r\nI
    encourage you to ask more specific questions, collect the replies, and see if
    it helps you focus your topic. You might find a subject that is just the right
    size, like Paul Renner's Futura, and it's importance in its historical context,
    or Bell Centennial and the specific purpose it was designed for, or the adaptation
    of a single metal typeface like Bembo for digital use. Or how a typefounder cut
    punches for the smallest size of a classic design like Garamond or Caslon, or
    the entire genealogical history of Helvetica, or.... \r\n\r\nTo reiterate the
    main point, there are specific approaches to type design for each different design.
    There is no compendium of type design knowledge that can answer all your questions.
    So you may have a bit of a hunt on your hands. "
  created: '2006-01-04 21:31:25'
- author:
    name: orso2932
  body: "Okay I got a question. What would be better? \r\n\r\nWhat I was going to
    do for my book is take each letter and explain it a bit in general. Then I was
    going to draw say a B and show each step from sketch to computer showing each
    revision and explain key points to watch out for. Sense I am a beginner myself
    one could see the mistakes I made. \r\n\r\n Or should I take 6 faces like Helvetica,
    Bodoni, Times, Garamond, Futura and Palatine or something and explain those. I
    am trying to write this for someone never doing it before. \r\n\r\nOne who is
    actively designing type now has followed a very faint, very lonely, slow trail
    to discover what they know. \r\n\r\nThis is my point. This is why I am asking
    you guys. My inpatients is not with doing the research it is in not finding it.
    Plus I\u2019m quite annoyed with the \"you want me to write you book for you comments\"
    Yall are not the first ones to say it. \r\n\r\nWhy doesn\u2019t someone write
    a book I would kill for one from Ed Benguit or Matthew Carter on the science of
    type design. \r\n"
  created: '2006-01-04 22:02:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Why doesn\u2019t someone write a book I would kill for one from Ed Benguit
    or Matthew Carter on the science of type design.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe they would disagree
    that it was a science to begin with?\r\n\r\nCarl's \"a very faint, very lonely,
    slow trail\" is pretty accurate. There is no cookbook how-to typedesign-for-dummies
    book because it does not work that way. For me, it is all about \"seeing\" not
    just looking. \"Yes Grasshopper,\" it is kinda like \"<a href=\"http://www.tribuneindia.com/2002/20020616/spectrum/art.htm\">Zen
    and the Art of Archery</a>\". You use your eyes to decide where to place the horizontal
    of the H and every other of the millions of decisions you will have to make. Type
    design is a prolonged study in angst while chasing a brief moment of eureka. The
    path is long with no road signs to guide you.  If Ed Benguiat and Matthew Carter
    were to follow \"the path\", each would go a different way, one which befits them
    as individuals.\r\nHaving read Leslie Cabarga's \"<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/customer-reviews/1581804369/103-5504466-5358246\">Logo,
    Font & Lettering Bible</a>\" does not change my mind. Leslie tells you his way
    but it is not a universal truth.  Don't get me wrong, read it--there are plenty
    of good tips in there but it is not \"to kill for\" and it won't help you much
    with your thesis.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-04 23:08:49'
- author:
    name: orso2932
  body: "I have read it. It gave me a headache. \r\n\r\nI agree Ed and Matt would
    do it differently but I guarentee that they tips on how to do it or even better
    how not to do it. \r\n\r\nEven though it may take Zan to shoot archery but how
    far are you going to get if you dont know how to put the arrow on the thing. What
    im saying is how are you going to adjust something if you dont even know what
    you are looking for. Kind of looking at a needle in a hay stack with out knowing
    what the needle looks like. "
  created: '2006-01-05 00:46:19'
- author:
    name: orso2932
  body: 'I just want to tell them what to look for. I dont want to hold the pencil
    for them. The problem is I dont know what to look for. '
  created: '2006-01-05 00:56:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "When I started to design type, I had nothing to go by. I just started with
    no preconceptions and no benchmark to measure against so I was not looking for
    a needle, I was just \"looking\" with no sense of urgency or yardstick to measure
    by. Don't think about \"finding\" it. There is nothing to find; just work and
    let \"it\" find you.\r\nYes, you will get headaches by the dozen. This is part
    of the bargain. Once again, \"Type design is a prolonged study in angst while
    chasing a brief moment of eureka.\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-05 01:35:53'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hi Jason,\r\n\r\nI think your paper could be very useful. But rather than
    trying to paraphrase others, possibly losing something in translation, could you
    speak from your own experience?\r\n\r\nSuppose you start a typeface design, using
    feedback from the critique forums here, to help you proceed. Then, as the process
    moves along, you can document the steps you took. Save all your proofs. Show the
    first few letters, and what people said about them. Include your reactions, feelings
    and decisions. Include these Typophile threads, as they reveal the difficulty
    we all have in getting started. Other beginning type designers would be very interested
    in your journey. \r\n\r\nEach time something new happens (re-spacing, stem weights
    adjusted, serifs shortened, x-height adjusted), show new samples. It could be
    like a diary, with lots of illustrations. Describing type with words is as hard
    as describing colors, so use examples of your process. \r\n\r\nThe conclusion
    can be a showing of the design, and the paper can be set in the final version
    of the typeface. Use earlier versions of the design in early pages of your document,
    to demonstrate to readers how it evolved. Maybe each chapter or section has a
    page summarizing that week's changes, set in that week's version of the font.
    \r\n\r\nIf the entire project shows that evolution, and de-mystifies the process,
    then I think that would be a fantastic document. Instead of an instructional manual,
    it would be more like an expose or a case study. If it was all drawn from your
    own experience, there would be nothing factual for anyone to argue with. It would
    be a document of your learning experience, which others could be enlightened by.
    \r\n\r\nI know this is not what you intended to do, but it might turn out to be
    much more interesting, and you might be very glad to have your own typeface to
    use in future documents. The research you have done already would not be wasted,
    just re-purposed. \r\n\r\nI could begin right away making suggestions for your
    typeface project, including which letters to start with, how to space them, balancing
    proportions, etc. etc. I think others would gladly share along those lines. The
    critique forums are pretty lively. \r\n\r\nWhat do you think? \r\n"
  created: '2006-01-05 02:39:51'
- author:
    name: orso2932
  body: 'That is similiar to what i was wanting to do. but the idea of a diary and
    setting the chapter in the face i like alot. I just thought a quick caption about
    the letters would be benifical as a jumping off point. Thanks alot. I think that
    would be interesting. '
  created: '2006-01-05 13:50:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Well said Carl.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-05 14:14:10'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Good idea Carl, \r\nIt'll be a slow chapter on kerning though:)\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-01-05 14:39:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Didn't I hear that Matthew Carter was quoted as saying, \"Watching someone
    design type is like watching paint dry\" ? (or words to that effect)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maxim Zhukov
      picture: 110611
    body: "<em>Didn\u2019t I hear that Matthew Carter was quoted as saying,</em> \u201C[...]\u201D\r\n\r\n\u201C<a
      href=\"http://www.usnews.com/usnews/culture/articles/030901/1font_2.htm\" target=\"_blank\">Watching
      me work is like watching a refrigerator make ice.</a>\u201D"
    created: '2006-01-07 14:49:49'
  created: '2006-01-05 15:07:34'
- author:
    name: orso2932
  body: 'You know dezcom we could always go back to you telling me how to draw the
    letter B. '
  created: '2006-01-05 15:56:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"You know dezcom we could always go back to you telling me how to draw the
    letter B.\"\r\n\r\n??? What do you mean Jason?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-05 15:59:32'
- author:
    name: orso2932
  body: "Didn\u2019t I hear that Matthew Carter was quoted as saying, \u201CWatching
    someone design type is like watching paint dry\u201D ? (or words to that effect)\r\n\r\nJust
    having some fun Chris. "
  created: '2006-01-05 18:14:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ya got me Jason :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-05 18:20:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Generally I agree with much of what Carl has written in response to Jason.
    However, I am willing to share this little gem on the design of the uppercase
    B. In <em>Carter's Caps,</em> Will Carter records that Eric Gill always told him
    that the lower bowl of the B should hang slightly 'like a young girl's buttock'.
    Given Gill's proclivities as discussed elsewhere on Typophile quite recently,
    this is not so charming as it sounds. Carter's B is, however, a fine example of
    the model.
  created: '2006-01-07 02:59:58'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "There are a lot of useful tips in there:\r\n\r\nhttp://briem.ismennt.is/index.htm\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typeworkshop.com/\r\n\r\nJust
    do it and show it, then if there is any concrete trouble everyone will be pleased
    to help you.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-01-07 03:54:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thank you Maxim! That is even better than I remembered.\r\n\r\nBy the way
    Maxim, I just got a copy of your (and George Sadek's) book \"Typographia polyglotta\"
    and am very happy to have such a well done concise comparison of scripts using
    the same text. The background square is an excellent way to compare setting lengths
    throughout the range of examples. The tidy description of each script is perfect
    reference. I know this is old news to you, but it is fresh still to me. Thank
    you both for producing this book.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maxim Zhukov
      picture: 110611
    body: Thank you for your kind words, Chris. By the way, <em>where</em> have you
      got it from? People keep asking me for a copy, and I don't know where to send
      them.
    created: '2006-01-07 18:23:48'
  created: '2006-01-07 16:24:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Given Gill\u2019s proclivities...</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GillCondom.jpg]"
  created: '2006-01-07 18:52:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maxim,\r\nI did a search on Amazon for it by name that turned up 3rd-party
    sellers that had some copies. Mine came from ABE in Oxford UK. It came to me in
    a plain brown wrapper with hand written address with a hand written invoice! It
    was quite enjoyable for a change to get something from a single human being rather
    than a mega-corporate auto-digital-web-based conglomerate! I will look up the
    reference for you though and send it to you.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.abebooks.co.uk\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-07 19:06:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick!\r\n\r\nGillting the lilly? :-)\r\n\r\nTHAT is a SCREAM!!! You graduate
    summa cum laude for that one :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-07 19:07:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Doing the \"A\" was fun, and useful even to the people opining on it\r\nI
    think. But asking us to go through the whole alphabet is... if not\r\nungracious,
    too demanding. If I spilled everything here, who would\r\nbother buying my eventual
    book?! ;-)  Oh, and who would pay my\r\nbills while I typed away?\r\n\r\nBut here's
    something: the \"B\" is best when the bottom bowl is complete\r\nwhile the top
    bowl gets truncated into it. I know that wasn't very clear.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-14 01:09:22'
date: '2006-01-01 17:05:11'
title: Designing the Uppercase B and lowecase b

---
