---
author:
  name: alchion
  picture: 110619
body: "Chris Costello's 1983 font Papyrus was a beautiful design and I bought it myself
  back in the day (when fonts came on 3.5\" 1.4 meg discs) it is sad to me that it
  got so popular as it has no value anymore to me because of the immense saturation.
  In other words it is good for one thing-blanding.\r\nAnyone else have any thought
  on the use of overly used display fonts? [img:sites/default/files/old-images/papyrus.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: garyw
    picture: 110508
  body: "\"Anyone else have any thought on the use of overly used display fonts?\"\r\n\r\n\r\nSomeone
    will surely come along and use it in a way that makes it beautiful again."
  created: '2006-01-03 01:19:12'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "i feel the same way about Bank Gothic. i think it's a great face with a good
    history, but is so overused, it becomes distracting. perhaps it's just a result
    of my own obsession\u2026 \r\n\r\na lot of typefaces are overused and i'm sure
    everyone has their own typographic sh*t list. \r\n\r\n------------\r\n\r\nnc"
  created: '2006-01-03 01:46:05'
- author:
    name: garyw
    picture: 110508
  body: "I take back what I previously posted. \r\n\r\nRemedy.  \r\n"
  created: '2006-01-03 02:48:45'
- author:
    name: Fisheye
    picture: 111178
  body: "It may seem naive to use such a pedestrian display face, but it's equally
    naive to choose a face simply because of its obscure and essoteric qualities.\r\n\r\nType
    should be chosen based on its relevance to the content. Of course, there is a
    point where the <cite>misuse</cite> of a face is so common that it no longer speaks
    the visual language it was intended to speak. Papyrus is probably one such face,
    as are Zapfino and several other faces that come bundled on the Mac.\r\n\r\nFor
    the record, I recently received an Art Director's resume which was set with Papyrus
    subheads. One glance and it went straight to the trash."
  created: '2006-01-03 03:44:08'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I saw a techo/hip-hop flier set in papyrus. Here.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hip.jpg]
  created: '2006-01-03 04:09:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "With Gill and Neuropol.\r\nStrange bedfellows."
  created: '2006-01-03 04:53:22'
- author:
    name: ericpitcock
  body: "> For the record, I recently received an Art Director\u2019s resume which
    was set with Papyrus subheads. One glance and it went straight to the trash.\r\n\r\nI
    hear that. I can't tell you how many terrible resumes I've seen. It's funny, and
    sickening."
  created: '2006-01-03 09:02:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Comic Sans is so loathed and overused there is a web site about it:\r\n\r\nhttp://bancomicsans.com/"
  created: '2006-01-03 19:50:19'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "Patricia, Were you aware that the designer of Comic Sans is a fellow Typophile.?
    :)\r\n<a href=\"http://www.connare.com/comic.htm\" target=\"_blank\">Vincent Connare</a>..\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2006-01-03 20:06:16'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "No, I was not! But I'm not the one who made a web site about it...\r\n\r\nHey
    Dav, I have a question for you - what's up with the extra period you always insert
    before punctuation?\r\n\r\nEdit: interesting to learn that he never really intended
    the font to be used for anything other than childrens stuff. "
  created: '2006-01-03 20:49:05'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "> Hey Dav, I have a question for you - what\u2019s up with the extra period
    you always\r\n> insert before punctuation?\r\n\r\nHah, Yea, I think thats just
    one of my '<a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Monk_%28TV_series%29\" target=\"_blank\">monk</a>'esque'
    fads / spleens :)\r\n<em>( I dont think I even remember where this one came from
    )</em>\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2006-01-03 22:20:34'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: But Papyrus is so vesatile! It can be Asian (ambiguously Asian at that), African,
    Wild West, Outer Space, futuristic, and ancient. Probably even more that I haven't
    even thought of.
  created: '2006-01-04 19:11:57'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "> <cite>Outer Space, futuristic</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe I'm out of touch with
    the space program and the future (?!), but Papyrus doesn't convey either of those
    things to me. \r\n\r\nAncient, yes. Western, maybe. Ambiguously 'foreign', sure.
    New Age & holistic, you bet! (That's actually where I seem to see it most -- things
    like day spas and salons.)  "
  created: '2006-01-04 19:50:52'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: "Lauren,\r\n\r\nI totally agree that Papyrus doesn't say Outer Space at all,
    but it's still used for those purposes.\r\n\r\nCheck this out: <a href=\"http://www.actuacine.net/Poster/serenity.jpg\"
    target=\"_blank\">Serenity poster</a>."
  created: '2006-01-04 20:15:27'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: 'That <em>Serenity</em> movie poster is odd. I <em>suppose</em> I could see
    it conveying the ''fantasy'' aspect... but not futuristic space rogues. Blech.
    (I think I may not be their target audience either!) '
  created: '2006-01-04 20:26:14'
- author:
    name: wngdn
  body: "The Serenity poster makes sense if you know the movie or the TV show it came
    from. A gross oversimplification is that it's a space western, so Papyrus is expressing
    the \"Western\" part. (A more complete characterization would be \"a character-driven
    comedy-drama space western\".)\r\n\r\n[Edit: also, Serenity takes place in a future
    where everyone speaks both English and Chinese, and the culture is an amalgam
    of U.S. and Chinese cultures, so Papyrus' \"asian\" look is also appropriate.
    Of course, none of this contradicts how overused Papyrus has become, but at least
    it's not so inappropriate for Serenity.]"
  created: '2006-01-04 21:51:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess if they can use Trajan for movie titles concerning space, why not
    Papyrus :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-04 22:01:49'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "The real problem is not that Papyrus or Comic Sans are rotten type designs;
    quite the contrary, they are both well-drawn and suitable for specific purposes.
    For that matter, Times New Roman is really an excellent, quite elegant text face.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem is that, because these faces are included with the Windows operating system,
    a LOT of people who are utterly clueless about design use them because they're
    <em>kewl</em> (or whatever) excessively and/or in the most inappropriate circumstances.
    Familiarity breeds contempt, and excessive misuse breeds nausea, tedium and revulsion."
  created: '2006-01-05 00:30:17'
- author:
    name: Peter G.
    picture: 109459
  body: "What gets me is the\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/papyrus.png]"
  created: '2006-01-05 23:44:38'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "Personally, I've been getting a bit irritated at Suburban.\r\nI guess it
    bugs me because I liked it the first time I saw it used. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sub.jpg]"
  created: '2006-01-06 00:34:29'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "My brother uses Papyrus as his iChat font and refuses to change it.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ichat_papyrus.jpg]"
  created: '2006-01-06 16:40:28'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Here is a really anachronistic use of Papyrus:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.frankjump.com/\r\n\r\nIt's
    a great site, though.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-06 16:46:36'
- author:
    name: Fisheye
    picture: 111178
  body: "Ok, so what are the chances of getting Apple and Microsoft to nix abused
    typefaces from their default installs? Users obviously can't handle the responsibility
    of eccentric type.\r\n\r\nIn a dream world, what fonts would you suggest come
    installed on consumer desktops?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: RN Lee
      picture: 111596
    body: "\"Ok, so what are the chances of getting Apple and Microsoft to nix abused
      typefaces from their default installs?\"\r\n\r\nMy guess is not very good, especially
      since Apple hated Comic Sans so much they first ripped it off, then just gave
      in and licensed it. "
    created: '2006-07-25 14:32:56'
  created: '2006-01-06 19:48:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mine :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-06 20:27:15'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "> <cite>In a dream world, what fonts would you suggest come installed on
    consumer desktops?</cite>\r\n\r\nSadly, no matter what you'd pick, it would soon
    become overused and abused. \r\n\r\nLook at the disdain many people have for Helvetica
    (or Arial) and Times New Roman because they're so \"average\" and \"boring.\"
    They're perfectly fine typefaces on their own. But their oversaturation in daily
    life has made them bland and meaningless to most people.\r\n\r\nThat leads the
    everyday user to pick other readily-available/system fonts that are illogical
    choices like Papyrus or Comic Sans just to try to be different or to add an element
    of \"fun.\" Eventually, the misuse makes those typefaces just as (seemingly) meaningless.\r\n\r\n<strong>Edit:</strong>\r\n>
    <cite>Familiarity breeds contempt, and excessive misuse breeds nausea, tedium
    and revulsion.</cite>\r\n\r\nYeah, what Nick said! (Sorry for the re-post of the
    same thought!)"
  created: '2006-01-06 20:38:16'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Wait until Courier Flair becomes the sweetheart of 06. You will be clammering
    for Papyrus Flair. I'm sure someone is working on it as we speak.
  created: '2006-01-06 21:29:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>In a dream world, what fonts would you suggest come installed on consumer
    desktops?</em>\r\n\r\nOne sans family of four, plus a monospace."
  created: '2006-01-06 22:35:37'
- author:
    name: fernloft
    picture: 111457
  body: "The font <i>Sand</i> always gets me. Is it ever appropriate?\r\n\r\nI have
    been tracking <a href=\"http://www.iheartpapyrus.com/\" target=\"_blank\">my encounters
    with Papyrus here</a><font size=\"-2\">(pops)</font>."
  created: '2006-07-25 04:03:56'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "I had to use papyrus on a recent quickie job (it was their logo):\r\n\r\nhttp://www.localrootslandscapers.com/\r\n\r\nOddly
    enough, I didn't mind it in that context.\r\n\r\nLove the papyrus blog!"
  created: '2006-07-25 15:18:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think this thread should have stayed in the tomb, but as someone resurrected
    it...\r\n\r\n>\u201COk, so what are the chances of getting Apple and Microsoft
    to nix abused typefaces from their default installs?\u201D\r\n\r\nFor a variety
    of reasons beginners, bloggers and self-appointed style-guru types, take their
    pent up fury out on Papyrus, Comic Sans, etc., while the true typorati (such as
    the regulars on typophile) realize that every bundled font is abused and over-used.
    \r\n\r\nThe answer is not to ban this font or that font, or hide those deemed
    offensive from users font lists, but to educate, promote and make available fresh
    designs to casual users \u2013 something I think myfonts.com has done a pretty
    good job at.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-25 16:32:10'
- author:
    name: KenBessie
    picture: 111775
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]\r\nI agree with Sii. \r\n\r\nIt is
    not the fault of the typeface. Some very beautiful fonts have become overused,
    or used out of the context for which they were designed, and have become mundane.
    (Times would be a perfect example of this.)\r\n\r\nThat Papyrus is used to death
    isn't the problem. That Papyrus is used badly is the problem. And banning it to
    the tomb for a few decades won't solve anything. Indifferent designers will simply
    start abusing another font.\r\n\r\nGeeez. It sounds like I'm a preachy little
    git. So I apologize."
  created: '2006-07-25 16:58:01'
- author:
    name: Bobby Henderson
  body: "I remember buying Letraset rub-on type sheets of Papyrus at art supply stores
    back in the 80's. It is an attractive typeface. Few casual users have any tools
    to make the digital version of it attractive, much less the knowledge or natural
    talent to do so. What else can one expect from the average office worker armed
    only with MS Word?\r\n\r\nI'll second Dezcom's comment about Trajan.\r\n\r\nTrajan
    is a typeface very over used on movie poster titles by people doing paid creative
    work. Need a typeface for a movie poster? When in doubt, select Trajan.\r\n\r\nNow
    that Trajan Pro is bundled in with Photoshop (and other CS2 and Adobe Production
    Suite applications) it may be threatened to become even more annoying from over
    use. And that's really too bad since it, like Papyrus, is a beautifully drawn
    typeface."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Dan Gayle
      picture: 111595
    body: "Trajan has a different cultural relevance though. Our entire upper case
      alphabet is based off of the Roman Capitals, with the Trajan Capital's lettering
      being amongst the most beautiful. Centuries of designers have looked at them
      for inspiration. That puts the typeface Trajan in a totally different category
      than Papyrus or Comic Sans or whatnot.\r\n\r\nBut how would people feel if Chris
      Costello ever got around to releasing his \"cleaned up\" version of Papyrus
      called Costello?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.costelloart.com/costello.html\r\n\r\nWould
      that manage to salve some wounds?"
    created: '2006-08-22 03:47:18'
  created: '2006-07-26 03:33:31'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: 'Finally got my Creative Suite 2 yesterday and was delighted by the selection
    of typefaces: Chaparral, Warnock, Bickham. Will we see a thread "ban Chaparral"
    in one or two years? I don''t hope so.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)'
  created: '2006-07-26 08:24:15'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "I must admit a fondness for Papyrus (in limited spots, granted) -- somewhere,
    I've got a t-shirt from the Chesapeake Bay Foundation that uses it and looks great
    with the illustration (of marine creatures).\r\n\r\nAnd Costello is great, unfortunately
    I bet it wouldn't take long before it became as ubiquitous as Cooper Black (a
    font on my sh*t list) once was.\r\n\r\nLoved the bancomicsans website -- I had
    a client who wrote a very dense economic policy paper using Comic Sans for heads.
    \ Talk about something that got changed *real* fast....\r\n\r\nLinda"
  created: '2006-08-23 18:07:12'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Don't be cruel to Cooper Black, pick on Dom Casual instead:)\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-08-23 18:51:43'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "(Geez, I had to dig out my really old Postscript Font Handbook to remind
    me how much I don't like Dom Casual either!)\r\n\r\nAny sans serif that came with
    the IBM Selectric: Letter Gothic and Orator.\r\n\r\n(brrrrrrr)"
  created: '2006-08-23 19:35:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Dan, good point about Trajan.\r\nHowever, there is room for many interpretations
    of classic roman letters, not just Adobe's much-bundled font.\r\nFor instance,
    how about a more weatherbeaten approach, something like, er, Papyrus..."
  created: '2006-08-23 20:08:47'
- author:
    name: finn
    picture: 110051
  body: "Personally I find Papyrus to be grating, regardless of saturation. Something
    about the combination of those particular letterforms and the uniformity of the
    distressing \u2026"
  created: '2006-08-23 21:04:55'
- author:
    name: Davex
  body: 'At the risk of resurrecting this mummified thread I must add my thoughts
    on papyrus, a font that has run amok in trendy Santa Fe. My question is (and perhaps
    this thread has been covered to death elsewhere on this site but forgive me, I''m
    a new user as of two minutes ago)...the question again...why are some fonts like
    this one so popular? Why was Souvenir such a hit in the 80s and Italia and Novarese
    and now you almost never see them anymore? What causes a font to gain popularity
    and then fade to obscurity? Is there something about papyrus with its chipped
    and hieroglyphic look that speaks to this particular decade? '
  created: '2006-11-19 23:32:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>why are some fonts like this one so popular?</em>\r\n\r\n[[bundling]].
    any font that is bundled with mainstream software is bound to get overused as
    people don't have to purchase additional licensing to use them. this is part of
    an explanation, at least for current trends."
  created: '2006-11-19 23:49:52'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\"(...) beautiful design (...) it is sad to me that it got so popular as
    it has no value anymore (...)\"\r\n\r\nThis is really interesting reasoning. In
    other words: it's so good that it's useless? \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-11-19 23:59:45'
- author:
    name: Davex
  body: "Paul, I agree with you but what about pre-bundling? Pre-computers? I started
    out on Varityper equipment before the desktop revolution and back in the early
    80s every third practitioner of the healing arts that walked in wanted Novarese.
    Then in the 90s everyone loved Lithos. These neolithic fonts are huge in SW advertising.
    Authenticity of the primitive maybe? I don't know. Usually I try and give the
    customer what they want or gently steer them toward something similar but less
    abused but the papyrus virus has gotten so bad that if one more realtor or mortgage
    broker decides to go with it I may commit typocide. The judge will let me off
    I'm sure of it.\r\n"
  created: '2006-11-20 00:16:07'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Although in the case of Papyrus, bundling might be the problem, I don't think
    the bulk of the "blame" can be put on bundling for other fonts that become popular.
    What about Meta? It was never bundled.
  created: '2006-11-20 00:23:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Davex,\r\nThere have always been \"hot typefaces\" but before digital type
    and bundling, they became hot by getting used by big name design firms and ad
    agencies and perhaps winning some awards. That flocked a bunch of \"me too\" users.
    \ In the 80s, U&lc was published and became a very effective showcase for all
    the ITC faces. Type, even then, was much quicker to come to market as phototype
    than the old hot metal predecessor. Many of these faces were redesigns of older
    styles and brought back (albeit with a bigger x-height and tighter spacing). The
    faces you say \"are never heard of again\" will be the next decades \"retro\"
    and hot again.\r\nThe good stuff (and some not so good) will come back as new.
    I remember when Tiffany lamps were being junked. Then they were replaced by 50s
    clunk. Then they came back as elegant antiques. Then the 50s clunk comes back
    as cool retro. Fads always happened, sometimes for better reasons than others.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-20 00:43:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Fonts like Papyrus become so popular for a variety of reasons, but in this
    case, I believe that it's because Papyrus makes it very easy for designers to
    be lazy and rip off ignorant clients. It's quite easy to take on a cheap design
    job, slap up Papyrus text, a stock image/illustration, and then ping the client
    for a couple hours worth of work that really only took fifteen minutes. For the
    last few years I can't go to any city in the USA and <em>not</em> see Papyrus.
    Hell, two blocks from this building there's a <em>French</em> restaurant that
    used Papyrus for its logo! But 99.9% of the uses are drek; just lazy designers
    using it to fill one of a dozen niches that it doesn't really, but since it's
    so damned pretty and odd it can pass long enough for the check to clear.
  created: '2006-11-20 01:39:18'
- author:
    name: Linda Cunningham
    picture: 111784
  body: "Well, as much as this discussion makes me want to go \"yes, Papyrus sucks,\"
    I just can't. \r\n\r\nOne of my clients has used it for years, and to keep some
    semblance of consistency in their \"look,\" so have I in the work I've done for
    them. It's not a bad face, although I'll agree that because it's been part of
    a bundle, it has been used excessively and, at times, inappropriately  (hello
    Comic Sans!). \r\n\r\nDoesn't mean it's \"bad\" though....\r\n\r\nL."
  created: '2006-11-20 05:30:02'
- author:
    name: austin
    picture: 110272
  body: i hate papyrus sooooooooo much
  created: '2006-11-21 09:47:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I agree with Linda, Papyrus is a well done face. It is just that because
    of the ''faux antique'' roughness it is cloying after a while. In this respect
    the comparison with Comic Sans is very apt. Its positive qualities make it popular.
    Its affectations (faux antique, faux child-like) make it very irritating with
    overuse. '
  created: '2006-11-21 13:45:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "While Papyrus is OK as a face for some uses, it does not have what it takes
    to be used in a multiplicity of situations. Its overuse is very largely do to
    bundling and it's  not capable of overcoming its own shortcomings when taken out
    of its element. Times Roman is even more overused and bundled but it at least
    has a much broader range of purpose and (dare I say it here and suffer the vitriolic
    barrage to come) it is a very good typeface!\r\n\r\nPapyrus is a niche face that
    has overflowed its vessal of credible uses. That is not a criticism of the typeface,
    this is a criticism of the people who have used it so poorly--and they are legion!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-11-21 13:57:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Times Roman is even more overused and ...(dare I say it here and suffer
    the vitriolic barrage to come) it is a very good typeface!\r\n\r\nTimes New Roman
    is flat out a great typeface. But I think it is also not just overused, but misused--eg
    at 12 pt in long measure on letter sized paper. It is dark and compact and works
    best in short measure, at relatively small sizes--its original purpose. "
  created: '2006-11-21 14:57:55'
- author:
    name: kristineve
    picture: 121464
  body: Papyrus is making me barf.. others are nice & getting way over-used too...
    on the Papyrus road--- BlackJack, Honey...
  created: '2010-12-22 05:51:12'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "\"Main Stage\" on that techno hip-hop liner should have probably been some
    extra-bold serif face, perhaps Baskerville or Bodoni.\r\n\r\nBut Papyrus will
    continue to be overused for a long time to come. As I've noted, it is the one
    commonly available typeface that is at once exotic and foreign and also politically
    acceptable. There is always the chance of another typeface that also fits that
    niche becoming available enough to provide serious competition. Until then, we
    will just have to wait."
  created: '2010-12-22 06:11:17'
- author:
    name: Charles_borges_de_oliveira
    picture: 110282
  body: 'I''ve always enjoyed Papyrus. I don''t care about trends or over use. To
    me anything can look good if used intelligently in a design; even Comic Sans. '
  created: '2010-12-22 16:49:29'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: And <em>that</em> is the crux of the matter. I'm still <em>such</em> a tyro
    when it comes to picking out type for my amassed fanfic library.
  created: '2010-12-22 17:39:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: The biggest problem with Papyrus is that is one of the faces most often picked
    by those with the least typographic skill or talent.  The odds are, most of what
    you see of it are garbage in-garbage out.
  created: '2010-12-22 17:43:51'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Now, now. Somebody used Papyrus for the signage on the windows of my veterinarian's
    office and it looks damned good. Done in a sand color with a grainy texture, too.\r\nKeep
    it walking with the dead, I say."
  created: '2010-12-22 21:08:06'
- author:
    name: apetickler
    picture: 112298
  body: "<blockquote>I guess if they can use Trajan for movie titles concerning space,
    why not Papyrus :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL</blockquote>\r\n\r\nI suppose futuristic science
    fiction should ideally use typefaces that haven't been invented yet?"
  created: '2010-12-23 00:48:11'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Just today I was thinking that once a business is doing a national ad campaign
    maybe it\u2019s time to hire someone to design a logo that doesn\u2019t use Papyrus."
  created: '2010-12-23 00:56:14'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: Gotham and Archer are definitely in the "me too" category. Sadly.
  created: '2010-12-23 01:05:43'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "@dunwich\r\n\r\nJust tonight I saw an ad on cable TV for a company - don't
    remember what - logo in Papyrus!"
  created: '2010-12-23 03:34:26'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I suppose futuristic science fiction should ideally use typefaces that
    haven't been invented yet?\"\r\n\r\nMaybe invented in the CURRENT century at least
    instead of 2000 years ago?"
  created: '2010-12-23 03:37:31'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: 'Actually, archaeologists are now convinced they''ve discoverd the world''s
    first type designer from prehistoric times. Amazingly, they deduced this from
    a single artifact found near the remains: FontLab Studio Version -3456.0.4.'
  created: '2010-12-23 03:50:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Richard, I'll bet that puppy was really full of bugs!
  created: '2010-12-23 04:50:13'
- author:
    name: russellm
    picture: 111614
  body: I only ever used it once, but that truck is probably still driving around
    Toronto fixing roofs.
  created: '2010-12-23 05:13:11'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: ">Richard, I'll bet that puppy was really full of bugs!\r\n\r\nActually, it
    was found to be amazingly advanced for it's time. You could drag 'n' drop any
    glyph in from outside the cave!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-23 05:33:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: OH!, You mean the T-Rex tool!
  created: '2010-12-23 18:43:52'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: "Yes! But let's cut them some slack, after all, Ted *was* very young at the
    time.\r\n(And I hope he has a sense of humor otherwise I can kiss any upgrades
    goodbye.)\r\n;)\r\nLet's stop before we hurt ourselves!"
  created: '2010-12-23 19:19:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: I always hurt myself ;-)
  created: '2010-12-23 23:51:30'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: '"You always hurt the ones you love." Didn''t an old pop tune put it that
    way?'
  created: '2010-12-25 03:58:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: LOL! Yes! The Mills Brothers used to sing it, among many others.
  created: '2010-12-25 04:21:30'
- author:
    name: Richard Fink
    picture: 117375
  body: Wow, the Mills Brothers. A blast from the past. They sang the jingle for the
    FontLab commercials too, as I recall.
  created: '2010-12-25 13:46:37'
date: '2006-01-03 00:43:14'
title: Papyrus need to be put back in the tomb for a few decades.

---
