---
author:
  name: marian bantjes
  picture: 111055
body: "Hi all, I'm about to start teaching typography again and one of the things
  i've never been able to find a simple resource for is something that explains, or
  preferrably shows the process of photo typesetting. I try to explain it to my students,
  how we used to have fonts on strips of film (and later, small cards) like negatives,
  and how these were mounted on drums, and the drums spun around really fast as light
  shot through the negatives for each letterform, exposing it at the correct size
  onto photographic paper.\r\n\r\nWell, naturally, it's bewildering, and I've long
  wished that there were a little movie, much like the numerous little movies there
  are out there showing metal type setting, lead casting, etc.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone
  know of something like this on the web, or ... ???\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "There's this by Peter Bain on display phototypesetting:\r\n\r\nhttp://stbride.org/friends/conference/hiddentypography/phototype.html"
  created: '2006-01-04 01:09:26'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Hey Mark!\r\nDidn't you <a href=\"http://www.marksimonson.com/article/105/lego-the-type-designers-friend\"
    target=\"new\">write an article</a> about using Legos to use an old VGC Typositor
    film font?"
  created: '2006-01-04 05:22:08'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: <a href="http://www.incipit.com/linkrefs2.html" target="new">Pics of VGC Typositor
    and film font</a>.
  created: '2006-01-04 05:27:36'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/compu1.gif]\r\n\r\nCompugraphic CompuWriter
    IV, with filmstrip and width cartridge cabinet on the left.\r\n\r\nOh, yeah...
    I forgot all about the <a href=\"http://www.pismolijna.cz/staromat.html\" target=\"new\"><strong>Staromat</strong></a>
    I also used to set headlines, but you had to use it in a darkroom like a photo
    enlarger.\r\n\r\nHey, and here's a detailed diagram of the <a href=\"http://bellsouthpwp2.net/b/c/bcarberry/tp.html\"
    target=\"new\">VGC Phototypositor</a>."
  created: '2006-01-04 05:31:45'
- author:
    name: peter_bain
  body: "FWIW, Marian, you might try contacting the Museum of Printing in North Andover,
    www.museumofprinting.org, to see if there are any period films from the original
    manufacturers (that could be converted). I'm guessing they might still exist.
    Frank Romano wrote a good capsule history of phototypesetting from the North American
    perspective in Printing History, the APHA journal, Number 46 (Volume 23, No. 2)
    2003, as an eyewitness.\r\n\r\nIf you haven't come across it already, download
    this article by Andrew Boag, on Monotype's photosetting equipment, written for
    the Printing History Society, the graphics will help. www.letterpress.ch/APINET/IMMPDF/MONOPHOTO/PHS_journal.pdf "
  created: '2006-01-04 16:37:51'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "http://www.designingwithtype.com/resources_book6.html\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/PhotoType.jpg]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-04 17:54:12'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "Hi all, Thanks so much for this. And I will indeed contact the museum of
    printing, thanks phil, as well as read your aticle (thanks mark), and the pics
    Norbert!\r\n\r\nIt's funny to me how every time i try to explain any typesetting
    technology to students how mindblowingly laborious it all seems. I worked with
    a Linotronic 3000(??), among other things, and it always amazed me.\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2006-01-04 20:09:04'
- author:
    name: peter_bain
  body: "Glad to be helpful...Phil Baines (no relation, different spelling) & Andrew
    Haslam's <em>Type & Typography</em> also has great illustrations of phototype
    artifacts, besides being an interesting textbook.\r\n\r\nGood luck with your class."
  created: '2006-01-04 21:51:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...how mindblowingly laborious it all seems. </em>\r\n\r\nBut just imagine
    going back in time and explaining to design students of 20 years ago how their
    future counterparts would have to sit at benches in sterile laboratories all day
    looking at computer screens, with a keyboard in front of them, preparing for a
    career as a digital drone."
  created: '2006-01-04 22:16:01'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "<em>preparing for a career as a digital drone.</em>\r\n\r\nFor those who
    can remember...\r\n<strong>JANUARY 23, 1884</strong>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Apple1984ad.jpg]\r\n\r\nApple
    Computer, Inc. introduces the world\u2019s first user-friendly, Macintosh personal
    computer. Its dramatic, Orwellian,1984-inspired Super Bowl TV ad introduces the
    product as a world smashing alternative to Big Brother\u2019s grip on workers
    in dull grey drone attire... APPLE -- PLEASE SAVE US!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Apple84hammer.jpg]\r\n\r\nMaybe
    the attire has changed... but the drones live on.\r\n\r\nFYI --\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lisa300.jpg]\r\nBefore
    there was the Macintosh, there was the Apple Lisa as the first desktop publishing
    front end. I worked on the Lisa for about a year at Compugraphic before the Cg's
    top management decided the hippies at Apple were crazy and that we would not support
    them in font development. The rest is history... and so is Cg."
  created: '2006-01-04 22:41:26'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Boy that was some commercial in 1884 the trouble was watching it on the soon
    to be invented radio. But the real question is who played in the 1984 Super Bowl
    and who cares.
  created: '2006-01-04 22:51:43'
- author:
    name: joffre
    picture: 110341
  body: "Norbert, don't forget about the infamous CgScript that management said would
    replace PostScript.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-04 23:05:54'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Norbert I remember the yellow Lisa at Cg in the downstairs hall outside the
    server room and Advanced Tec (?). Now I remember you and Howard Berman. I have
    an old Apple rainbow label for a disk somewere and I think and Intellifont large
    disk somewhere. I just remember the VT100 and the 'private data' that never made
    it to replace Postscrpt. I almost bought a Lisa from Cg when they were trying
    to sell them of with imagesetters.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: ktinkel
    body: "Another name from the past! Does anyone keep up with Howard Berman? His
      baby must be in grad school by now.\r\n\r\nIf you speak to him, do say hi!\r\n\r\n(I
      almost bought a used Lisa too, but in late 1983 heard a rumor about the Mac,
      so waited and bought that instead, then waited about 3 years before it really
      worked for design and type.)\r\n\r\n\r\n--Kathleen"
    created: '2006-01-05 21:49:56'
  created: '2006-01-04 23:18:23'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Isn't interesting how technology changes, I read an article about how Adobe
    can introduce a new version of their programs every 18 months. It seems they have
    programers work all day and then send the work over to India at the start of their
    work day. It makes programing a 24 hour a day process as they pass the work back
    and forth.
  created: '2006-01-04 23:43:51'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'Perhaps one of the upsides of ye olde typesetting technology (pre-desktop
    publishing days) was that, generally, the people who produced typeset type actually
    knew what the f**k they were doing... '
  created: '2006-01-05 00:34:51'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I remember seeing a Lisa in a Compugraphic showroom around 1984. They had
    some sample output from the combo system. It didn't look very promising. Lots
    of squashed/slanted type and fairly crude translation of QuickDraw graphics to
    hi-res output, seemingly using shapes built from individual characters tiled together
    or something.\r\n\r\nI thought the Lisa was really something when I first read
    about it. At $10,000, it was too expensive to imagine actually owning one. It
    made the Mac, at $2500, seem very reasonably priced. I bought one exactly a month
    after they were introduced.\r\n\r\nAround the same time I got my first Mac, I
    ordered a Compugraphic MCS digital typesetting system for us to use at MPR. It
    replaced an aging Compugraphic Editwriter II phototypesetter (one with a spinning
    drum like Marian describes above). Not long after that, I left with my Mac to
    start freelancing, using it for comps and stuff. The LaserWriter/Linotronic/PostScript
    thing hadn't happened yet."
  created: '2006-01-05 00:50:10'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "<em>CgScript</em> -- Yikes, Joffre, you haven't forgotten (though I did).\r\n\r\n<em>Intellifont...
    Now I remember you and Howard Berman.</em>\r\nVince, the problem in those days
    was that everyone used to call me Howard, and they would call Howard -- Norbert.
    No doubt you remember the names, but could you tell one from the other (not that
    anyone cared ;-( ).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nf_2.jpg]Norbert\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nf_4.jpg]Howard"
  created: '2006-01-05 00:59:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Gee, when Norbert first met Vincent, it must have gone like this:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Vincent-Cosell.gif]\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-05 01:21:10'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Oh, I don't think I have ever met Norbert. That would be Dan (possibly). The
    showroom I was referring to was in Bloomington, Minnesota. Norbert would have
    been in Wilmington, Massachusetts, right?
  created: '2006-01-05 01:49:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "How's that Mark, better? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-05 02:03:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Right. I meant Vince, not Dan. I could edit that out, but I don't want to
    risk disrupting the space-time continuum any further.
  created: '2006-01-05 02:15:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-05 12:47:47'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Yes I could tell Norbert from Howard Berman. Howard talked too fast and ran
    too much and you 2 were the original Mac heads but he with the bowed legs. \r\n\r\nThe
    Cg; Norbert and I worked at was at 'building 90' in Wilmington MA. Cg was dotted
    all around the area. \r\n\r\nHoward was a bit upset when Agfa bought Cg and went
    on a bit about Bayer and there experiments during WWII. \r\n\r\nHe and I worked
    very close on the first TrueType fonts. \r\n\r\nI think you left about this time
    and you probably don't remember the Agfa PostScript desktop printer that sold
    for $10,000 and use to clog up with paper every 50 sheets. "
  created: '2006-01-05 15:13:52'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "<em>you 2 were the original Mac heads but he with the bowed legs.</em>\r\n\r\nSo
    that's why you would always look at my legs before saying, \"Hi Norbert.\" ;-)\r\n\r\nI
    started at Compugraphic in 1981 through the Agfa acquisition, through the time
    Bayer wanted to gain name recognition in the USA again, then back to just plain
    Agfa. I left in 1994 because I became increasingly interested in the new multimedia,
    interactive program development and the beginning stages of the graphical Internet
    (it was all text messaging prior to that).\r\n\r\nThe \"high-end\" type and imagesetting
    equipment were beginning to slow down in sales, and the Type Division (Font Technologies)
    was able to produce and sell fonts independently of Agfa front end devices. It
    was basically a rush to convert our outline library to PostScript, TrueType, etc.
    and at that time Linotype seemed to have had market lead. (A direct result of
    Apple partnering with Linotype for fonts after Agfa-Cg abandoned them because
    of the Lisa fiasco.)\r\n\r\nBut eventually \"Font Technologies Division\" prevailed
    and is now Monotype Imaging.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-05 15:40:53'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "Well, i think i've just been one-upped in the antiquated technologies department,
    several times over. I came into this in the last days of our Compugraphic machine,
    and a year later we got some PCs (yes, IBM XTs). For years I typeset in a v. little-known
    program called XyWrite: all manual coding, but which had certain features I miss
    to this day.\r\n\r\n<i>preparing for a career as a digital drone.</i>\r\n\r\nBelieve
    me, when I start looking at the details of getting anything onto press, from the
    15th Century right up to the present, sometimes it's hard to imagine it's worth
    it.\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2006-01-05 17:02:12'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "Does anyone remember when Intertype and British Monotype both took the metal
    melting pots off their casting machines and substituted a camera. It was really
    cumbersome and silly, but they were trying to salvage the ir vested interest in
    the machine, and the did work pretty well.\r\n\r\nI have a brochure here somewhere
    put out by the Monotype Corporation of England showing the caster conversion.\r\n\r\nJim[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-01-05 19:03:53'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: You might check somewhere within these <a href="http://www.letterpress.ch/SPIPCASTER/article.php3?id_article=14"
    target="new">chronicles by Lawrence W. Wallis</a> in which I have found little
    tidbits from time to time.
  created: '2006-01-05 19:16:44'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: ">Marian<  PCs (yes, IBM XTs). For years I typeset in a v. little-known program
    called XyWrite:\r\n\r\nwe use to use an IBM XT to write disks for Intellifont
    from Digital mainframes. Test them in DOS then run print tests on an HP laserjet
    II..I think I wrote my first CV in XyWrite.\r\n\r\nNorbert I left Agfa in '93
    to go to Microsoft. It's funny to find out that alot of people are still there.
    It weirds me out when I think of it.\r\n\r\nThe best thing I remember was there
    was a room bigger than a london flat that held positive and negative film versions
    of all typefaces in little grey trays. These positives were scanned on a drum
    scanner and used in the 8000 series of digital typesetters. The digital format
    was vector graphics and made the contours out of straight lines, even on curves.
    Then for the 9000 series they scanned them again and used two shifts of 40-50
    people to convert these into Ikarus (line and arc) outlines. Then there was 'Type
    3' unhinted PostScript. CgScript I think was Type 3 wasn't it? \r\n\r\nI made
    a series of Intellifont fonts that were for the HP Deskwriter for the Mac. \r\n\r\nThen
    there was Homogonized Outlines!!! HP Deskwriter fonts and PostScript. \r\n\r\nThe
    first TrueType fonts we tested were lighter than the PostScript fonts. Almost
    a different weight like a light to a regular. Early Postscript was very heavy.
    The marketing people were confused. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-05 20:30:29'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: I had kept in touch with Howard Berman for a while, even did some freelance
    work for the company he went to, ColorAge. Though I stay in close touch with many
    ex-Cg-Agfa people, no one has heard from Howard for a while. I'll let you know
    if he shows up at the Agfa reunions that we run from time to time.
  created: '2006-01-05 22:22:24'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "They should have a Cg reunion. I know tons of people who have worked for
    Cg and are now either on their own, at Microsoft, or Apple or many other places.\r\n\r\nI
    have to now dig up a drawing I did for the sales group once. I hope I can find
    it. "
  created: '2006-01-05 22:55:05'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "Oh I'm excited that someone else knew XyWrite. I typeset the promo material
    for Robert Bringhurst's <i>Elements</i> in it ... One of those tumbles of letterforms
    down a page (or wait, maybe that was an Alcuin Society poster .. I forget), done
    non-wysiwyg.\r\n\r\nThen we had a programmer who wrote some kind of script to
    get XyWrite to talk to the image setters. We also had programmed tables for adjusting
    kerning pairs. These would produce paper tapes, which were then loaded into the
    image setter for each font.\r\n\r\noh. the joy.\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2006-01-06 01:32:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"XyWrite\" was the 1irst application to compose a postscript authored color
    magazine with custom fonts! \r\n\r\nWhen people talk about computer phototypesetters,
    the thing that comes to my mind is always the Smell(s) and the little grinding
    noises that meant bad things were happening. Also, there are a lot of links 'n
    things here I just can't follow, but computer controlled phototypesetting was
    a rather short-lived, (by type stds.) transitional technology between metal, and
    computers, (seeing as some users skipped it completely for text). It was pretty
    ugly from preparation of fonts to alignment accuracy. Spinning drums, I'd think
    are not so exciting as some other things about phototypography. Manual setting
    of display type lasted a long time, (80 yrs?) allowed amazing quality, and anyone
    with 1/2-a-type-brain, some film, ink and a knife could make a font as good as
    anyone else...it was arguably the first really democratic font format since...(place
    argument here). So, I think the best educative source on photo type, or at least
    something that'd grab the imagination of young and hopefully susceptible typographically
    minds would be the massive twin volume photolettering specimen books, (though
    either volume would do), (see House, maybe). \r\n\r\n...2\" x 48\" pdf with an
    alphabet on it. output to film. a light proof em plaque. a dark room...smells."
  created: '2006-01-06 13:50:04'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cg_lupe.jpg]\r\nNothing like and old
    Cg lupe and a bit of Comic Sans and Trebuchet in the local Wimbledon magazine.
    The weirdos use Treb as the text copy."
  created: '2006-01-06 14:36:45'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "<i>\u20262\u201D x 48\u201D pdf with an alphabet on it. output to film. a
    light proof em plaque. a dark room\u2026smells.</i>\r\n\r\nNow you're onto something.
    Certainly a simulation of the font, and then perhaps galleys ... too bad i can't
    capture the smells, or the sound. Coupled with some pics, some details, some memories
    ... I'm done!\r\nBut really, I always did find those spinning drums fascinating
    ... and the flickering light.\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2006-01-06 17:12:26'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: ">a dark room smells.\r\n\r\nwell the smell was from the fixer. I use to work
    for a newspaper and spend about 4-5 hours in a photo darkroom then had lunch and
    another 4 hours in the darkroom. It didn't smell you just start hating the sun
    and it was a bit difficult to drive home. "
  created: '2006-01-06 17:18:38'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>But really, I always did find those spinning drums fascinating </em>\r\n\r\nYeah
    but how about...\r\n- the sound of a filmstrip clip letting go and your font thrashing
    into shreds at 100+ revolutions per second!\r\n- the sound of your photopaper
    galley (with 2 hours of typesetting) getting jammed into an accordian wad during
    processing!\r\n- the tearing sounds of photopaper wound too tightly in the paper
    cassette holder!\r\n- the 2000 decible lambasting you get from your boss when
    the newspaper ad insertion deadline for photo-pasteups past an hour ago!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-06 17:28:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>When people talk about computer phototypesetters, the thing that comes
    to my mind is always the Smell(s) and the little grinding noises that meant bad
    things were happening.</em>\r\n\r\nSome things never change. Even in digital typesetting,
    a grinding noise is still a reliable indication that something bad is happening.
    Most likely that your hard drive is crashing."
  created: '2006-01-06 17:53:59'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I like the smell of fixer and photo paper better than laser toner and it
    makes me sick just thinking of it. \r\n\r\nThe old DEC (LN-01) laser printers
    at Cg use to sometimes burn a line through the paper.. it was wicked pissa when
    it happened."
  created: '2006-01-06 18:11:38'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Wicked Pissa! Vince, are you from Massachusetts? I haven''t heard that since
    I was in high school. '
  created: '2006-01-06 18:23:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am going down to Naraganset and have a <a href=\"http://bated.org/archives/000027.html\">Cabinet</a>
    :-)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-06 20:01:47'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "yes born in Boston and played baseball for Milford High  , Milford Legion
    and town team and I think Brian Cossgrove was in my class.\r\n\r\nand they use
    to call a beer a 'ganset' for a Naraganset at the packee that you should not say
    in the UK."
  created: '2006-01-07 00:12:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ahhh, \"Ganset n' quohogs! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-07 01:24:20'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: Quahog Clam - 'Mercenaria mercenaria' - according to 'Rich Stein's Seafood'
    book. Always thought it was a slang word. Also thought Scampi wasn't a real seafood
    creature but of course they are like little lobsters or cray fish.
  created: '2006-01-07 11:05:21'
- author:
    name: Wille
  body: "Need to ID this font.\r\n        Thanks Wille\r\n\r\n<em>*moderator's note:
    moved type id request to:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/17135 {pdh}*</em>"
  created: '2006-01-07 21:53:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Wille,\r\nTake it to the type ID forum instead of trying to hyjack another
    thread, ok?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-07 23:09:25'
- author:
    name: marian bantjes
    picture: 111055
  body: "<em>- the sound of a filmstrip clip letting go and your font thrashing into
    shreds at 100+ revolutions per second!</em>\r\n\r\nThis never happened to me,
    although we did once set an entire book with the wrong font on the position for
    the old style numbers, so that all numerals (except page numbers, which were,
    i guess, in another font) came out as some garbled mess; no-one noticed, and the
    book got printed that way. That was fun.\r\n\r\n<em>- the sound of your photopaper
    galley (with 2 hours of typesetting) getting jammed into an accordian wad during
    processing!</em>\r\n\r\nwhich you'd then have to unjam by picking at it with the
    top end of a pica ruler.\r\n\r\nor the dreaded realization that the the paper
    that went into the processor never came out the other side and was therefor wrapped
    around one of the rollers, drenched in chemicals.\r\n\r\n-marian"
  created: '2006-01-08 05:39:12'
date: '2006-01-04 00:30:08'
title: Photo Typesetting ... resource?

---
