---
author:
  name: DanDA
body: "I was born in the wrong era. I cannot help but notice the lack of apprenticeships,
  especially in America. <!--break--> An ongoing search on the internet and through
  \"inside connections\" have led me to believe that the age of Master & Apprentice
  are thoroughly dead. Am I looking in the wrong closets or am I actually on to something?\r\n\r\nNow,
  understandably, we could all toss it up to the laws of singularity, but maybe I
  am lost in dreaming that type design is still a romantic profession \u2014 or atleast
  the dreams I had after my Looking Closer III reading assignments. I mean, aren't
  most of the type foundries out there one or two man studios (i.e. Fountain, ThirstType,
  Orange Italic, DresserJohnson)?\r\n\r\nI truly believe that any type-obsessed young
  entry level would give up everything and live in a 4ft x 4ft wood shack, brushing
  their teeth with muddy water, just to learn from the likes of Frank E. Blokland,
  Matthew Carter, or (my favorite) Fred Smeijers (in house/not university, that is).\r\n\r\nI
  guess the real question (and the reason for this post) is: are apprenticeships really
  dead? and if they aren't how does one find a devoted master of the craft to teach
  them?"
comments:
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Dan, you will probably find that 90+% of type designers are not full-time
    type designers, and of the 10% who are full-time, 90+% of them work on their own.
    It's a function of the changes in technology in the last 30 years; type design
    no longer requires the backing organisation which was necessary from the mid 15th
    through late 20th centuries.\r\n\r\nAnd even where many foundries publish the
    work of many designers, the majority of them will be independent contractors,
    much like authors, working on their own.\r\n\r\nAt one point Thirstype consisted
    of Rick Valicenti, Patric King, and myself sitting side-by-side in a room, primarily
    doing graphic design work, with some type stuff on the side. But the majority
    of the Thirstype designers were located far away, and were busy working at their
    own design firms doing the occasional bit of type work. I would imagine that the
    working arrangement at Fountain and many of the other small indy foundries is
    very similar. Underware is a group consisting of three gentlemen working in three
    cities.\r\n\r\nThe companies with design staffs are large companies which have
    been around for decades: Monotype and Linotype.\r\n\r\nAnother factor in the apprenticelessness
    of many type designers: they work out of their homes, and there is either not
    room for another person, or it would be awkward. (Personally, I live and work
    in a 425 square foot 2 bedroom apartment with my wife/partner and our two small
    dogs. It would not be feasible for us to have someone join us during the working
    day.)\r\n\r\nSo... Apprenticeship is not dead, and will never die; but it is not
    the only way to begin in the type industry. There are many ways which type designers
    now help each other develop and hone their craft, with this website being one
    such information channel."
  created: '2006-01-05 05:21:13'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: I think Chester nailed it on the head, really. The <a href="http://typophile.com/forum/1">Critiques</a>
    forum provides a place to have your type designs evaluated by your peers -- professionals
    and amateurs alike -- from the very first sketch till the finished design. And
    any other questions will be answered either here or in one of the other appropriate
    forums.
  created: '2006-01-05 12:00:49'
- author:
    name: mrschwartz
  body: "Forums like this one are all well and good, but there's still something to
    be said for working one-on-one with a designer you respect. I was lucky enough
    to go through a couple of internships that ended up being more like apprenticeships
    (complete with poverty and dodgy living situations), and my first 9 or 10 months
    on the Font Bureau design staff were a lot like an apprenticeship too. I learned
    quite a bit about drawing, spacing, and type production, which you could probably
    pick up here, or from books, or even by trial and error, but I don't think I could
    have learned about the business side - things like dealing with clients, and meeting
    deadlines - any other way.\r\n\r\nSo my point is - although graduate programs
    appear to be eclipsing apprenticeships as the way to learn about drawing type,
    apprenticeships do exist, so don't give up hope. I know Font Bureau always has
    an eye out for the next diamond in the rough, and I don't think they're the only
    ones. The important thing is to keep reading about type, and looking at type,
    and drawing type, so that when you find an internship, you have a good base of
    knowledge to build on.\r\n\r\nYour profile says you're in Brooklyn, so feel free
    to contact me off-list for more info on type stuff going on around the city."
  created: '2006-01-05 16:01:27'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Only a few weeks ago I was re-reading Paul Rand's essay, <em>Good Design
    Is Good Will</em>, Yale University 1987:<ul><em>Even if it requires no extensive
    schooling, design is one of the most perplexing pursuits in which to excel. Besides
    the need for a God-given talent, the designer must contend with encyclopedic amounts
    of information, with a seemingly endless stream of opinions, and with the day-to-day
    problem of finding \"new\" ideas (popularly called creativity). Yet it is a profession
    relatively easy to break into. Unlike those of architecture and engineering, it
    requires no accreditation (not that accreditation is always meaningful in the
    arts). It entails no authorization from official institutions as do the legal
    and medical professions. This is equally true of other areas of the business world,
    for example, marketing and market research. There's no set body of knowledge that
    must be mastered by the practitioners. What the designer and businessman have
    in common is a license to practice without a license.</em></ul>\r\n\r\nApprecticeships
    (as similar to the old \"Guild Systems\") are still maintained by trades such
    as plumbing, carpenters, electricians, etc., and are strictly regulated from within
    in terms of level of accreditation as in tradesman to Master Electrician. Even
    the unions associated with typesetting, printing and newspaper publishing had
    maintained systems of apprenticeship as a way of teaching and regulating the skill
    sets of their levels. \r\n\r\nBut as mentioned by others above, we simply have
    to nourish these skills and share the knowledge via our community. It's really
    the MAIN reason I felt compelled to \"resurface\" in the type community, plus
    a true sense of DEBT that I owe to those who had taught me over the years."
  created: '2006-01-05 16:11:55'
- author:
    name: Fisheye
    picture: 111178
  body: "Apprenticeships are still very much alive at a few University Letterpress/Printmaking
    shops \u2013 masked under the guise of formal classes. I was a printmaking major
    who never graduated. Rather, I spent my time learning to set lead type from a
    master printer who liked to circumvent the system as much as I did.\r\n\r\nYou
    might think about enrolling in a University Book Arts curriculum where you'll
    learn not only to set type and operate old presses, but also to skillfully bind
    books and create wood type for titling. Usually, there are so few students enrolled
    in Book Arts programs that it may well seem like a one-on-one apprenticeship."
  created: '2006-01-05 17:26:03'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Idea: sudent designers matched up one-to-one with working type designers,
    who give critique and advice digitally. No travel, overhead, or space considerations.
    The world of type designers is then available, instead of just the ones in your
    city. Mentors commit to 6 months or a year of monthly or weekly critiques and
    give recommendations for next steps. Each mentor can decide how many students
    to assist. \r\n\r\nDaniel, you could contact Fred Smeijers and ask him if he would
    be willing to give you feedback over a period of time, while you develop a design
    (or designs)."
  created: '2006-01-05 17:52:37'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "This has been mentioned before, but there is definitely something to be said
    about manually composing type, adding spacers, coppers, lead, hand inserting ligatures,
    proofing and spot reading galleys prior to pulling proofs, in other words, getting
    intimate with tangible type.\r\n\r\nIt may have something to do with multiple
    synapse firing off during \"hand-to-eye-to-hand\" activities. It may have something
    to do with directly associating real three-dimensional space with spacing two-dimensional
    elements (and notan) and finally manipulating virtual space... though just a gut
    feel and nothing to substantiate the advantages of touching type.\r\n\r\nIt's
    like saying a \"Master Typographer\" could space type blindfolded by just running
    the hand over composed type... like <em>Zatoichi, the blind swordsman</em> slicing
    the wing off a moth in mid air.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zatoichi-katsu.jpg]"
  created: '2006-01-05 18:08:13'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: This is an interesting thread to read as I literally just put down my copy
    of The New Yorker with the article about Matthew Carter.
  created: '2006-01-05 18:10:15'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "<cite>Personally, I live and work in a 425 square foot 2 bedroom apartment
    with my wife</cite>\r\nDear Chester, thanks for the good news. I thought we were
    bad at 500sq ft for a two bedroom. I realize now that I take for granted the 4
    inches between the bed and the wall. \r\n\r\nRandy\r\n\r\nPS. Openings available
    immediately for apprentices working in a well ventilated fire escape."
  created: '2006-01-05 19:27:48'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I know a few graphic designers that set digital type blindfolded.  >: (\r\n\r\nSkills
    that are at least as important now as setting metal was then: drawing (letters,
    figures, cars, anything), and typographic layout. I think a type designer that
    doesn't <strong>use</strong> type has fewer tools to work with. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-05 19:54:55'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Hi Dan,\r\n\r\nThis thread has been very interesting to read, thanks for
    your thoughtful post. . .\r\n\r\nIn general I think apprenticeship has gone by
    the wayside primarily because there haven't been any apprentices . . .\r\n\r\nI
    say this primarily in part due to the fact that much information required to work
    or start a business in this field can generally be learned on ones own. By the
    virtue of this forum, type design books, Typecon, e-mailing other type designers,
    etc . . . There is a host of ways a self-taught font designer can acquire growing
    knowledge in this industry . . .\r\n\r\nAs a result of this virtual interaction,
    there isn't really an opportunity to be apprenticed but rather participate in
    the type design community at large and learn from asking . . .\r\n\r\nThat said,
    I don't think there has been anybody I've ever asked questions about the craft
    who hasn't been more than willing to help but the reality is that most of the
    time anybody who has the desire to run their own foundry usually will make the
    decision to start from scratch rather seek out professionals who do it for a living
    and apprentice . . .\r\n\r\nSo I still resolve that there is a shortage of apprentices
    who want to be apprenticed and rather turn their efforts to self-teaching . .
    . As you can see from the posts above, there is no shortage of opportunties to
    be apprenticed, just not many who wish to pursue them . . .\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2006-01-05 20:25:54'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Perhaps our internet, digitally-remastered lifestlye has something to do
    with this perceived lack of Master/Apprentice dynamic. It seems to still exist,
    but in a different form. You can, for instance, reach respected designers like
    Nick Shinn, Franta Storm and others by e-mail quite easily. Even on these forums
    there are practicing designers who (I'm quite sure) would work one-on-one with
    an \"apprentice\", perhaps by e-mail, during an exchange of specimen sheets or
    .psd files from computer to computer, seeing each other on webcam, etc. The critiquing,
    gentle admonishment, and patient teaching that seem to be characteristic of the
    (ideal) Master/Apprentice dynamic can still occur. It just doesn't necessarily
    involve sitting in the same room, hunched over design tools. \r\n\r\nIt's simply
    happening all at once, at lightning speed, in cyberspace. We're all connected
    now, to use a tired cliche.\r\n\r\nN'est-ce pas?"
  created: '2006-01-05 20:45:27'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I think Daniel's onto something here. It does seem very difficult to break
    into the type industry. As Chester pointed out, over 90% of type designers are
    not full time type designers. It is very difficult to balance the time to do something
    that requires so much of your time and a way to bring home the bacon (or the daily
    bread if you're a vegetarian).\r\n\r\nIf more designers could find it as a viable
    source of income, you would find more designers involved in type design. It really
    is a starving artist field, not to say that there aren't quite a few success stories,
    but I'm willing to say that it might be harder to make a living as a type designer
    than as a fine artist. That's saying a lot. Lucky me, I happen to be interested
    in both. :)\r\n\r\nThe tools are certainly here on this site for finding a \"Master\"
    and honing your craft\u2014 the knowledge here is invaluable. The tools that are
    missing however, are how to parlay that knowledge into a career. Is this even
    possible?\r\n "
  created: '2006-01-05 21:13:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"how to parlay that knowledge into a career\"\r\n\r\nI guess if 90% of type
    designers can't make a living from it, they have not figured out how to \"parlay\"
    either (myself included).\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: Gee Christian, do you ever
    get down to the DC area to talk to old CMU design grads? :-)"
  created: '2006-01-05 22:51:35'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>I guess if 90% of type designers can\u2019t make a living from it, they
    have not figured out how to \u201Cparlay\u201D either (myself included).</em>\r\n\r\nI
    was thinking <em>specifically</em> of you when I was writing my comment, Chris.
    :)"
  created: '2006-01-05 22:58:12'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em> > I know a few graphic designers that set digital type blindfolded.
    >: (</em>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontfeed/archives/2006/01/in_use_neo_sans.cfm\">Indeed</a>.
    :^/"
  created: '2006-01-05 23:13:29'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "There is another aspect of learning which can neither be \"just taught\"
    nor can be self-learned. It has to do with direct one-on-one interaction within
    physical proximity and then gradually at a distance from one another.\r\n\r\nI
    don't believe it always requires a long period of time, in fact, I don't sense
    that the passage of time is an actual factor as opposed to a skill, knowledge
    or awareness that develops at its own rate.\r\n\r\nThis may not be what typically
    is associated with being an apprentice or student, but it does have something
    to do with the way one acquires certain forms of knowledge or understanding. During
    the early stages and at certain critical points, one needs to be directly observed,
    guided and evaluated before one progresses to the next area of development.\r\n\r\nI
    can't seem to think of any examples in Western civilization, but for the Chinese,
    learning to be an approved practioner of Traditional Chinese Medicine is about
    as clear an example I can think of. There is a certain body of knowledge (massive,
    actually) which must be absorbed, and then there are several \"skill/awarenesses\"
    that must be developed and mastered. (Like sensing if a patient's Chi is sufficiently
    unblocked by acupuncture or if another technique is required.) There is no instrument
    for sensing Chi. You can't learn Chi or acupuncture from a book, and even when
    it's taught, it's not easily learned or understood. \r\n\r\nThe Chinese call this
    level of teaching/learing \"transmission\" which suggests that there is something
    more being imparted to the student than just knowledge. I feel that's true about
    typography as well. (Though, thank goodness, not too many people that I can think
    of have been killed or maimed by poor typography.)\r\n\r\nI've never been an actual
    \"apprentice\" but I have been lucky enough to have had a few mentors, none of
    whom \"taught\" me anything directly, but whom I have learned from through their
    occasional guidance, from my direct observation, and from just spending periods
    of quality time together, listening, asking question, talking about life... and,
    oh yes, drinking wine (when with Aaron Burns) or beer (when with Ed Benguiat or
    Otl Aicher)."
  created: '2006-01-05 23:24:16'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "That's what [[TypeCon]] is for....\r\n\r\n; D"
  created: '2006-01-05 23:55:02'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "I think that Rod MacDonald and John Downer would both agree with me that
    type designers come to be through a twisting trail tht is not alway in the form
    of instruction and mentorship. Both of these fellow came into type deign by being
    sign painters, and very good ones!\r\n\r\nMy backgrpund has been a six year structured
    apprenticeship in the composing (1950-1956) but it taught me nothing about designing
    type and not a lot more about appreciating it. I am grateful that is has dovetailed
    with what I have been able to teach myself: how to design typefaces.\r\n\r\nI
    am trying to say that type design to a large degree comes from what's insde the
    individual, and the amount of motivation that person has.\r\n\r\nGet what training
    you can, but above all, look a lot and draw a lot! I believe there is much to
    be learned at the intersection of a pencil point and paper.\r\n\r\nIf you a crazy
    about letters, you are a good part of the way there.\r\n\r\nBest wishes in your
    quest.\r\n\r\nJim [img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-01-06 00:54:25'
- author:
    name: DanDA
  body: "Wow, thank you all. I was forced to take notes just for this reply.\r\n\r\nNorbert
    \u2014 Beautiful references. You are finely tuned in to what I am saying. (Schwartz,
    as well.) You must be an asiaphilliac like me. On the subject of phenomenal arts
    \u2014 have you seen the K\xF4do documentary? The drummers have to cut their own
    drum sticks and make their own drums and flutes. (They also run around the whole
    island they live on every morning, and their resting breath is spent playing the
    flute.)\r\n\r\nThat transmission is sort of what I am looking for. That is what
    you get at college, and the main reason why students fervidly pay $20k a semester
    instead of signing up for DeVry online.\r\n\r\nThrough a program, online pairing,
    or conventional \"internships\" the learning feels cold and commercial. Or at
    least with my experience it has (which was not specifically in \"type\" design
    but magazine publication, and then identity refurbishing and web). It's like that
    dreaded question Liza and Donald always ask on Typeradio: \"Does money make the
    world go 'round?\u201D\r\n\r\nStuart \u2014 How many young fresh graduates went
    to TypeCon in New York? Sadly, I couldn't make it. I'd imagine there are many
    others like me in the same situation. All wishing they could have a real world
    teacher. It is sad to think that this could all be because no one is interested
    in learning from someone who has already done it before you, but I just can\u2019t
    wrap my brain around that. I think many designers my age have lost faith in this
    whole Master & Apprentice dream (or else they really enjoy the massive ad firm
    idea).\r\n\r\nI guess the big thing is, I don't <i>want</i> to start on my own.
    What I am really dreaming of is a grandfatherly master teaching me conservative
    roman type as he scrapes the pencil across some rough Arches Rives BFK. It seems
    like all the successful and current designers have interned or apprenticed in
    Basel :) or The Hague or Sweden.\r\n\r\nChester \u2014 I agree. It would be incredibly
    awkward coming over to someone\u2019s apartment to work. Their life completely
    exposed to this stranger.\r\nAnd I do understand that custom type projects are
    far and few in between. But I have great type setting skills. I also have two
    chubby Lithuanian hands that are great with emptying trash and comping. Why would
    someone turn down an apprentice willing to dust his employer\u2019s blinds?\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    will definitely try the Critique forum, though. Thank you all again."
  created: '2006-01-06 02:04:50'
- author:
    name: DanDA
  body: "Also, does anyone know anything about the M&H Type apprenticeship in San
    Francisco (Arion Press)? For instance, is it any good?\r\n\r\nSorry. I guess I
    should've included this in my repost, but I forgot.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-06 02:12:51'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em> does anyone know anything about the M&H Type apprenticeship in San Francisco
    (Arion Press) </em>\r\n\r\nI do. Here's what I was told from Andrew Hoyem who
    is in charge of Arion Press:\r\n<em>We occasionally take on apprentices in the
    type foundry and bindery, rarely in the printing shop, and these are for commitments
    of two to four years, starting at very low pay. </em>\r\n\r\nI went to Arion Press
    a few months ago. While I think you could learn a lot about printing there, I
    don't know how much you could actually learn about type design. Their thing isn't
    digital type at all. That's a whole different animal."
  created: '2006-01-06 03:35:55'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "I second Carl's comment on TypeCon. I've met a lot of people who I would
    now consider friends and mentors by attending last summer.\r\n\r\nDaniel, another
    thing I've noticed as of late is that there isn't a lot of time or patience to
    really have a Master/Apprentice relationship. Many \"Masters\" are far too busy
    to be able to devote their time to send a reply e-mail, let alone instruct. Alas
    there will always be more willing students, then there are masters to teach them. "
  created: '2006-01-06 03:45:04'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "<em>> You must be an asiaphilliac like me.</em>\r\n\r\nNope... not really,
    unless that includes having fantasies of Kung Fu fighting with Michelle Yeoh ;-)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/michelle_yeoh.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    used the acupuncture and Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) analogy because most
    people, even western medicine, believe that it does work... just not certain about
    the how or why. Most people also accept the fact that if you were to seek treatment,
    you wouldn't go to someone who got their training from a book or via the Internet,
    would you?\r\n\r\nHaving studied Tai Chi Chuan and Qi Quong for nearly ten years,
    and Tui Na (Chinese healing massage) and foundations of Traditional Chinese Medicine
    on and off for three years with two Chinese Masters has nothing to do with my
    choice of analogies. I could have used Yoda teaching Luke Skywalker how to use
    the Force instead. ;-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yoda.jpg]\r\nMaster
    Yoda hopes to speak at TypeCon 2006."
  created: '2006-01-06 04:30:18'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The apprentice model of learning type design has largely disappeared because
    the manufacturing processes and businesses that supported it have disappeared.
    The days when Matthew Carter could go, as a young man with his father's recommendation,
    to learn to cut punches by hand at Ensched\xE9 are gone because that highly skilled
    manufacturing process has disappeared, as have the mechanical versions of the
    same. They have been replaced by digital production tools that pretty much anyone
    can learn to use with some modicum of skill, and which have user interfaces that
    have much in common with non-specialist digital art and design tools, meaning
    that basic skills can be learned from a readily available books or courses.\r\n\r\nI
    think it is important to realise that apprentices derive from manufacturing processes,
    not from design processes. Historically, most people learned to design type by
    learning to make type, or came to it through related activities of calligraphy
    (e.g. Hermann Zapf), stonecutting (e.g. Eric Gill), or sign painting (e.g. John
    Downer). Very few people ever apprenticed specifically as type designers. They
    apprenticed as drawing office staff producing production drawings from other people's
    designs, or as mechanics operating cutting or casting equipment, or they learned
    through the training or apprenticeship models of those related fields (e.g. David
    Kindersley, who apprenticed as a stonecutter with Gill, and after establishing
    his own career as a stonecutter took an interest in the spacing of mechanically
    reproduced lettering and type design).\r\n\r\nOne of my favourite stories about
    how someone became a type designer, which I think I've told here before, is that
    of Tim Holloway. He was hired for a junior management position by Walter Tracy
    at Linotype, and set to spend some time working in each othe various departments
    in order to learn how the whole business worked. When he got to the drawing office,
    he discovered that he had a natural talent as both a draughtsman and a designer.
    He never took the management position, and stayed in the design department. I
    consider him among the greatest living type designers, right up there with Matthew
    and Hermann, although he is overlooked by most people because almost all his work
    has been in non-Latin type design.\r\n\r\nThese kind of practical apprentices
    have disappeared because the people who design and make type don't really need
    apprentices to help with the making bit. If you need someone to help you <em>manufacture</em>
    fonts you don't need a beginner, and if you need help you're not in a position
    to teach anyone else: you need someone who knows more than you do. So the kind
    of 'entry level positions' that foundries are trying to fill is for people who
    already have good technical skills and experience, e.g. people like Tom Grace
    who went from the MA programme at Reading to work with Jeremy Tankard and is now
    working for Jean-Fran\xE7ois. I know that when my colleagues and I look at the
    graduates from places like Reading, we're not necessarily looking for the best
    designers, but for people who can do Python scripting or other programming, or
    who have good proven skills in being able to work with the tools, understand the
    font formats, and can produce robust fonts. In other words, we're looking for
    people who are already past the apprentice level.\r\n\r\nIn this situation, even
    the old economic model of apprenticeship -- having someone work for you for little
    or nothing, or even having them pay you for the privilege -- isn't attractive
    to potential employers/trainers. I simply don't have time to train someone, and
    I doubt if many of my colleagues do.\r\n\r\nSome of the larger companies have
    intern programmes, which is as close as you are likely to get these days."
  created: '2006-01-06 05:02:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Great posts Chester, John, Norbert.\r\n\r\nI had the great fortune to work
    for a year as a junior art director for Raymond Lee, who I consider (in retrospect)
    to be my mentor. Ray is one of the \"Big Idea\" creatives who came to the fore
    in the 1960s. I have never done a piece of art direction since I left him, without
    him standing at my shoulder, so to speak, and I don't even have to ask myself
    \"How would Ray have done this\" because any time I stray, it sucks.\r\n\r\nAnother
    big influence is newspaper designer Tony Sutton. Tony is a meticulously un-fussy
    typographer, if you know what I mean; for instance he has no use for old style
    figures. So he's kind of an exemplary benchmark -- I design faces with him in
    mind, either for him, or in spite of him.\r\n\r\nI'm a self-taught type designer,
    so there's no one like Ray or Tony there. But Oz Cooper is my virtual sensei."
  created: '2006-01-06 14:40:24'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: ">Nope\u2026 not really, unless that includes having fantasies of Kung Fu
    fighting with Michelle Yeoh ;-)\r\n\r\nMichelle Yeoh is currently on the cast
    of Sunshine, a movie soon to be released from Danny Boyle. The site blog is run
    by one of my clients Gia and it's here:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/corazon_01.jpg]\r\nCorazon:\r\nwww.sunshinedna.com\r\n\r\nthis
    is Gia:\r\nhttp://www.sueridermanagement.co.uk/presenters/Gia/gia.htm\r\n\r\nBTW:
    Dalton Maag anually has one or more interns that are trained in the traditional
    methods of drawing letterforms to digial font production. Through application
    and interview only. "
  created: '2006-01-06 14:53:47'
- author:
    name: Giovanni Jubert
  body: "Hi.\r\n\r\nThanks Dan for your posting and to everyone for your great answers.\r\nI
    specialy thank this posting because it could have been me who posted something
    very similar to what you said. This meaning that i do understand your feelings
    and hear your pain.\r\n\r\nThe answers are great. \r\nI'll tell you a story not
    to repeat all that has been said... (which nailed the subject)\r\n\r\nMy girl
    walks by my shoulder while im reading this posting and says,\r\n\"you have virtual
    friends...\"\r\nand I answer,\r\n\"Yes, somehow, but you know this is my second
    school, and those guys my mentors\"\r\nShe smiles and leaves...\r\n\r\nIt's true,
    in my personal crusade to learn as much about type, letterforms and type design,\r\nthis
    are some of the most valueble tools i have. \r\nMy books, my hands, my eyes, little
    time, and typophile (together with plenty other great websites we all know...)\r\n\r\nI
    do personaly pay mayself a master program in com.design in NY and believe me,
    coming from a foreign coutry this can be hardcore, mostly when you do not find
    in it what you expect. I am not blaming the education, that could be better, of
    course, what i am trying to say, is that what pushes me forward is my will to
    learn more and more about this passion that we all here share. My commitment is
    to learn more, and for this, going to typecon helped greatly, but typohile and
    you guys are what encourage me to keep going, and keep learning.  \r\n I encourage
    you Dan to keep looking for your way, and it will happen.\r\n\r\nGood luck!\r\n\r\nGio\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: nickshanks
    body: "\"together with plenty other great websites we all know\"\r\nI don't know
      them. Would you mind sharing?\r\n\r\nAlso, I'm in Hertfordshire; If there's
      anyone here nearby who wouldn't mind a young-un looking over their shoulder
      as they work, I'd be interested in observing how a professional works. I have
      no formal type education (I did astrophysics at school and computer programming
      at home) so it would be a new experience for me."
    created: '2006-01-16 16:52:46'
  created: '2006-01-06 16:24:39'
- author:
    name: DanDA
  body: "Thanks. I was afraid that the real reasons would've been because of how John
    explains them, but it just makes sense that way. From strolling around in the
    Critique forum, I could see how easy it would be buried in my beloved copy of
    Dansk-Norsk Ordbog and checking up on posts.\r\nThank you all for your time, and
    hopefully I'll hear from you when posting up my type sketches. "
  created: '2006-01-06 17:20:05'
- author:
    name: hoefler
    picture: 128166
  body: "I think the problem is the notion of \"apprenticeship\" in the first place.
    It's a very beguiling word: Dan's romantic notion of chisel-edged pencils and
    handmade paper is so seductive that I would like to apply for this apprenticeship
    myself. I can see myself spending a year with an Old Master, sharpening pencils
    and fetching pots of tea, while quietly taking in a body of received wisdom. I'm
    not exactly sure why an Old Master would pay me to do this, though; I suspect
    I'd have to pay the Old Master. In which case what I'm describing wouldn't be
    an apprenticeship, it would be grad school.\r\n\r\nAlmost all of the accomplished
    type designers I know -- certainly all the designers of my generation, and everyone
    younger -- learned on the job. This is a twofold process of learning established
    tradecraft, and developing your own techniques out of necessity. In my experience,
    this environment is unique to the commercial pressures of a professional setting:
    as Christian points out, this does not happen with FontLab & a web browser in
    your spare bedroom. That's good too, but it is different.\r\n\r\nThe workplace
    can be an amazing crucible for developing new skills, and sharpening the ones
    you have. It requires that you learn quickly, think on your feet, and demonstrably
    improve every day. It also, as John Hudson points out, demands a real facility
    with a range of abilities and interests, from drawing outlines to writing code.
    Its upsides include a paycheck, a collaborative environment, access to practitioners
    of the craft, and hands-on experience with real-world projects. Its downside is
    that it's real work, and very little real work involves lofty discussions about
    the echt Imperialness of an inscriptional roman. Also, some of it will be tedious,
    and most of it will be hard.\r\n\r\nThink about what you really want out of an
    apprenticeship. If it's something that you think could be satisfied in the workplace,
    send out some portfolios. We're always looking for good people (careers-at-typography.com),
    and I imagine that the folks at Font Bureau and House Industries are as well.
    If you think you'd rather take the time to focus on learning for learning's sake,
    consider a graduate program. Reading and KABK have strong programs in type design,
    and Yale, CalArts and Cranbrook have much to offer here as well."
  created: '2006-01-06 17:34:02'
- author:
    name: DanDA
  body: "Jonathan - That was exactly the advice I needed. I actually emailed Kevin
    Dresser about any openings at his small studio, and if he knew of anything open
    at your studio, as well.\r\nOh, how I would love to attend Reading or Royal Academy
    (I actually applied to Royal my senior year of college) \u2014 but, alas, everything
    comes back to finances.\r\n\r\nWorking (not apprenticing) would be better for
    my cause, but many studios, like John explains, want someone who isn't entry level
    at all. I guess the moral of the story is to spend three years with a pirated
    version of Fontmaster, a notebook, lots of pencils, a dark room, and a freelancing
    job \u2013 and now Typophile.\r\n\r\nThank you."
  created: '2006-01-06 18:01:59'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Another situation that makes any viable \"on-the-job\" training difficult
    is the sheer lack of type-aware businesses to seek employment at.\r\n\r\nThough
    I am not a type designer, my typographic \"on-the-job\" training took place over
    the course of years at several printshops, a small book publisher, a daily newspaper,
    all of which had \"seasoned pros\" who were typographers, metal and photo composers,
    lettering artists, and ex-sign painters. I also spent time at type shops (those
    musty old warehouse establishements that ran 3 shifts setting type 24x7) watching
    type directors/typographers markup and edit galley proofs.\r\n\r\nPrior to the
    mid-eighties, you could find such companies in virtually every mid-sized town
    to large city... all busy making a living doing something knowledgeably with type.\r\n\r\nBy
    the time I got to Compugraphic my typographic portfolio got me a spot as their
    Art Director in charge of type related promotional material and specimen books.
    Another 14 years gave me the opportunity to learn and collaborate with some of
    the best known and respected typographers and type designers around the globe.\r\n\r\nHere
    are the current results from \"SuperPages-Yellow pages\" search for \"typesetting\"
    in New York City:\r\nDisplay Options: Within  select miles25\r\n \r\nThe Imaging
    Group \r\nImaging Systems & The Imaging Group are industry leaders in the graphic
    arts community. Keeping up with the latest equipment. \r\nEmail: infoimaginggrp.com
    \r\nFrom Services: Typesetting   \r\n\r\nBestype Imaging \r\nDigital & Offset
    Printing: high quality, short-run, full color, fast turnaround \r\n  www.bestypeimaging.com\r\nFrom
    Services: Typesetting   \r\n\r\nColor Seps \r\nComplete prepress, drum scanning,
    large format film output, proofing, mac and PC platforms. \r\n  csnj.com/colorseps.html\r\nFrom
    Services: Typesetting   \r\n \r\nResults 1 - 3 of 3 \r\n"
  created: '2006-01-06 18:38:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Its upsides include a paycheck, a collaborative environment, access to
    practitioners of the craft, and hands-on experience with real-world projects.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    access to books and specimens. Or don't you let the junior staff handle the books,
    Jonathan? :)\r\n\r\nThe closest thing I had to an apprenticeship was having free
    run of Gerald Giampa's specimen books and Lanston archive when he was based in
    Vancouver."
  created: '2006-01-06 20:11:22'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "I still draw with a flat pencil in designing my typefaces. It's something
    I picked up from my very small stint of art school, and it served me well in a
    longish career of design and layout.\r\n\r\nIt averages out to about twice a year
    that people come here from wherever and spend a few days picking up whatever part
    of typemaking interests them.\r\n\r\nThere have now been eight or so students
    that have been willing to work hard for three to five days. There is no cost save
    their own travel and keep. I do this because I want to pass on some things that
    I have picked up over the past 55 years, and it's a thrill for me to see their
    reactions to their own efforts.\r\n\r\nI had precious little to do with it, other
    than a bit of direction; but one young man here in the Vancouver area has taken
    up cutting wood type. Here's another example of a very indirect path to type design.
    Incidentally he sold a font to Eric Spiekermann. Neat!\r\n\r\nOne young man cut
    an entire set of 14 point brass matrices here which he then cast and printed That's
    something I was happy to be a part of.\r\n\r\nJim\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-01-06 20:51:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Jim,\r\nI am getting my flip-flops ready for your Vancouver Winters. At 62,
    would I be the oldest apprentice in the Guiness book? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    In my youth, I would tie 2 pencils together with a rubberband and draw letters
    as if I were using a flat pen but very big."
  created: '2006-01-06 20:57:01'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "62 ????\r\n\r\nMan, you're just getting broke in!\r\n\r\nAnd it's been warm
    here, but wet beyond imagining.\r\n\r\nJim"
  created: '2006-01-06 23:36:06'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "I forgot to mention that in public school we used to try to get away with
    tying two or three pencils together to do \"lines\" which were given to us as
    punishment. You know the kind of thing: \"I will not ever again\" etc.\r\n\r\njim[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-01-06 23:38:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "We had to do it at the chalkboard for all to see Jim :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-07 01:28:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...tying two or three pencils together to do \u201Clines\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    the Jarrold Printing Museum in Norwich and they have an old machine which produces
    ruled paper. It is quite literally a set of evenly spaced pens, which paper is
    rolled past."
  created: '2006-01-07 01:34:59'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I think I agree with most of John's thoughts on apprenticeship, and what
    the large type foundries are needing today.\r\n\r\nAt Adobe, we have once or twice
    talked about the possibility of taking on an intern, but we agreed that even a
    six-month placement of somebody truly novice would be more of a drain than a help,
    in the final accounting.\r\n\r\nI feel very lucky indeed in having Robert Slimbach,
    whose work I admire a great deal, as my mentor in type design. At the same time,
    in many other (related) areas I wish I had somebody I could mentor as part of
    my work. But that's just not going to happen, I don't think.  :(\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-07 01:59:36'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I forgot to mention that in public school we used to try to get away
    with tying two or three pencils together to do \u201Clines\u201D which were given
    to us as punishment. You know the kind of thing: \u201CI will not ever again\u201D
    etc.</em>\r\n\r\nI've seen Tim Holloway using two pencils taped together -- with
    one edge of each shaved down to reduced the space between the points and to make
    the whole more stable -- to sketch the basic contrast of an Arabic letter before
    refining the outlines, making optical adjustments, and inking.\r\n\r\n<em>In the
    Jarrold Printing Museum in Norwich and they have an old machine which produces
    ruled paper. It is quite literally a set of evenly spaced pens, which paper is
    rolled past.</em>\r\n\r\nThere is a huge old wooden ruling machine in the lobby
    of Benwell Atkins printers in Vancouver, of the kind used to rule large ledger
    folio pages. Rather than having pens, it has fine, taut threads that are inked
    and then lowered onto the the paper (very similar, in fact, to the string-slapping
    technique used by ancient Egyptian wall painters to make the straight vertical
    lines between columns of hieroglyphs). It looks a lot like a kind of loom, and
    the strings could be raised or lowered individually to produce different line
    spacing configurations. Sadly, the machine is no longer in working order.\r\n\r\nIf
    you are in the Vancouver area, I recommend dropping by B/A on Great Northern Way
    to take a look at this wooden beast of a bygone era."
  created: '2006-01-07 03:11:41'
- author:
    name: a2z
  body: "i was an apprentice (briefly) at M&H. the low pay was really a problem--i
    couldn't afford rent without a second (and at times a third) job, which really
    cut into the time i was able to spend learning useful things there. i spent most
    of my time there melting lead from used type... i really wanted to learn casting,
    which i didn't.\r\n\r\ni have to say i did learn alot though, and really miss
    having PHYSICAL contact with letterforms. the exposure to original artwork by
    amazing artists certainly didn't hurt either...\r\n\r\n/aaron"
  created: '2006-01-09 18:39:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "{Disclaimer: I haven't read every word in this thread.}\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m
    not exactly sure why an Old Master would pay me to do this\r\n\r\nThere is one
    good practical reason: if he's swamped with work, and he can make more money by
    saving time on the menial stuff.* The question becomes: how many of even our top
    type designers are actually swamped? That's not a rhetorical question - I frankly
    don't know - in fact you could say I'm asking.  :-)\r\n\r\n* Think of Reubens.\r\n\r\nAnd
    then there's a good impractical reason: wanting to pass\r\nsomething on. I think
    this must be Jim's reason for example.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-15 05:57:36'
- author:
    name: Giovanni Jubert
  body: "\u201Ctogether with plenty other great websites we all know\u201D\r\nI don\u2019t
    know them. Would you mind sharing?\r\n\r\nhttp://typographi.com/\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/\r\nhttp://bielerpress.blogspot.com/\r\nhttp://typeculture.com/\r\nhttp://www.typotheque.com/site/index.php\r\nhttp://www.baselinemagazine.com/\r\nhttp://www.eyemagazine.com/home.php\r\n\r\n+
    all the foundries websites\r\n+ myfonts.com\r\n+ any website from anyone who writes
    something interesting in this blog"
  created: '2006-01-18 05:25:35'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Late last evening something occurred to me about this topic I thought I'd
    share . . .\r\n\r\nHistorically didn't an apprentice have little to no experience
    in a given trade who wished to learn it?\r\n\r\nIt seems to me that I feel I could
    easily become an apprentice to a carpenter or mechanic and learn most of all of
    my knowledge from the ground up from the teacher rather a primary education followed
    by a pseudo internship to hone skills . . .\r\n\r\nThat's not to say there is
    one way to learn but the more I got to thinking about things it seemed that it
    would be much easier to teach a person with little or no experience in type design
    rather than somebody who already has a working knowledge of the entire craft and
    has already created some fonts . . .\r\n\r\nStuart :D\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-23 15:58:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Stuart,\r\nPerhaps you are getting at the master-apprentice relationship.
    \ Typically this relationship ends when the apprentice has either learned enough
    of his master's wisdom to go on his own, or there is a tenson developed where
    apprentice questions the master's ability to overule him (or the master thinks
    his apprentice to be a dolt).\r\nI think the relationship has to at least start
    with the acceptance by the apprentice that knowledge is coming down to him/her
    and that this is not a colleague relationship. Maybe what you are saying is that
    you would not see peoplewilling to be subserviant if they already felt they had
    achieved some resonable degree of knowledge and skill?\r\nI think this also varies
    with the type of task being taught. Learning how to cut a punch or make a casting
    is more akin to your carpenter example. Learning to design one's own typeface
    would be another story. Here there are far more avenues to take and plenty more
    room for dissagreement on form. \r\nThe technical part of the craft has changed
    to more of the software knowlege including FontLab and VOLT, as well as hinting,
    scripting, and OTF feature construction.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-23 16:40:20'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Thanks for your reply Chris . . .\r\n\r\nI do agree with many of your points
    but would clarify my point being that an apprentice with far less knowledge of
    a given craft would have greater desire to learn . . .\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2006-01-23 16:55:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...an apprentice with far less knowledge of a given craft would have greater
    desire to learn\"\r\n\r\nAbsolutely true.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-23 17:42:44'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "One thing to remember about apprenticing in the <em>Black Arts</em> was that
    it was originally born of the Guild System, specifically the Printers Guild. You
    didn't simply \"learn\" from a Master, but worked for a specific guild (Printers
    Guild of Padua, Italy) and received additional training as the guild saw fit.
    Guild and trade secrets were (and still are in certain professions) kept highly
    guarded.\r\n\r\nToday, Printer Guilds still exist, but more in light of preserving
    the craft and as a means of educating. (<a href=\"http://www.fiveroses.org/HCCP_index.htm\"
    target=\"new\">The Yale Honorable Company of College Printers</a>, the world\u2019s
    oldest continuous student printing guild.)\r\n\r\nTo a lesser degree, the same
    holds true with Typographers Guilds. IMHO, certain \"secrets\" of the Black Art
    can still be learned (the wisdom of the \"Typographic Eye\") and experienced but
    only by DOING, not by reading or talking with someone about it. Get up close and
    personal with a private letterpress shop that does fine printing."
  created: '2006-01-23 19:11:16'
date: '2006-01-05 04:23:31'
node_type: forum
title: The Death of the Type Apprenticeship?

---
