---
author:
  name: heners
body: "Hello,\r\n\r\nThis is my first post. I hope someone can help.\r\n\r\nI am using
  Fontlab 5 to produce a type face. I currently have all upper and lower case glyphs
  created. I have set the metrics for each of these so the default spacing is pretty
  good. There are currently 562 kerning pairs which have been kerned appropriately.\r\n\r\n<strong>THE
  PROBLEM...</strong>\r\n\r\nWhen I install the font file and open up some content
  in a word document the font does not use any of the kerning values, it just ignores
  them. The kerning in Fontlab comes up correctly when using the metrics window.\r\n\r\nAny
  help would be great, I am stuck until this is sorted.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\n\r\nHenry."
comments:
- author:
    name: Chris G
    picture: 110812
  body: "I think I remember something along these lines on another thread. If I'm
    remembering correctly Word doesn't use kerning pairs when in its default settings.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sure someone with a better memory can confirm this or tell me I'm talking rubbish...\r\n\r\nTry
    it in a page layout program and see if the same thing happens\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-01-06 16:11:48'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Henry, what kind of font are you generating? I have seen lack-of-kerning
    in fonts with a standard kern table generated as OTF, even with \"generate kern
    feature\" enabled.\r\n\r\nIn these cases, I open the OpenType panel and in the
    file pulldown select \"Generate kern feature\". Then I compile the feature, and
    try to generate the font again.\r\n\r\nAnother case of lack-of-kerning seems to
    have been due to over-complexity in the glyphs themselves: too many nodes.\r\n\r\nIf
    neither of these is the issue, maybe you can send your file and I'll troubleshoot
    it for you. chester[at]vllg.com"
  children:
  - author:
      name: heners
    body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nThanks for responding. I am generating a TrueType/OpenType font.
      I have tried the font in Photoshop and still get the same issue with Kerning.
      I am going to have a look at the Glyphs, I know there are a couple which I am
      unable to fix (click and fix node), do you know why?\r\n\r\nThank you for offering
      to troubleshoot the font. I would really appreciate this. Are you sure you have
      the time?\r\n\r\nHenry."
    created: '2006-01-06 16:47:43'
  created: '2006-01-06 16:14:13'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Oh. Duh. Word. Forget your kerning in Word, because it will.
  created: '2006-01-06 16:14:55'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Henry, there is never and always time to help out. I'll have a look at those
    problem nodes, too. Are they being flagged by Font Audit?\r\n\r\nc"
  children:
  - author:
      name: heners
    body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nNot sure what Font Audit is? What is your email address so I
      can send the file?\r\n\r\nHenry."
    created: '2006-01-06 17:16:17'
  created: '2006-01-06 16:54:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Tools> Kerning Assistance> Apply and Save\r\n...is necessary, even if there
    is no class kerning.\r\nAfter you've done it, you will see that there is now a
    \"kern\" feature in the OpenType panel, with the values you've entered in the
    metrics window.\r\n\r\n(This is for FL4.6, but I'm assuming v.5 is the same.)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: heners
    body: "Hi Nick,\r\n\r\nThat has worked just about. The majority of the kerning
      has been assigned but there a couple of pairs which still ignore. I am going
      to review the glyphs as chester recommended. IF I further problems I will post
      them. Thanks v.much. Cheers Chester.\r\n\r\nHenry."
    created: '2006-01-06 17:29:41'
  - author:
      name: heners
    body: "Hi Nick,\r\n\r\nI am still getting the same problem. The kerning is ignored.
      I have tested by increasing the kerning on some pairs. The font is not using
      the kerning values. I have done Tools> Kerning Assistance> Apply and Save and
      then updated the kern feature, but still have no joy.\r\n\r\nAny other ideas?\r\n\r\nHenry."
    created: '2006-01-09 14:10:59'
  created: '2006-01-06 17:16:06'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Henry, Font Audit is FontLab's tool which goes through your Glyphs and picks
    out problems like two nodes on top of each other, lack of extrema nodes, nearly-horizontal/vertical
    lines, etc.\r\nMy address is chester{at}vllg.com. Please change the [at} into
    an @. I'm not giving the spam crawlers anything to latch onto.\r\nBest, c"
  created: '2006-01-06 17:24:34'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Oh. Duh. Word. Forget your kerning in Word, because it will.</em>\r\n\r\nnot
    true. it's just not on by default at certian point sizes. "
  created: '2006-01-06 19:45:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry, I'm not using FL5 yet.\r\nThe only thing I can think of is that perhaps
    it is a conflict problem with previous versions of the font."
  children:
  - author:
      name: heners
    body: no worries nick. thanks for your help.
    created: '2006-01-09 15:33:57'
  created: '2006-01-09 15:26:05'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Try this:\r\n\r\nIn the kern feature, about every 100 lines, insert this
    line:\r\n\r\nsubtable;\r\n\r\nIt worked for me when I had (possibly) the same
    problem."
  children:
  - author:
      name: heners
    body: hi, thanks but the file still ignores the kern values. arhh what is going
      on.
    created: '2006-01-09 16:22:37'
  created: '2006-01-09 15:48:43'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Hopefully, Adam Twardoch will drop by with some wisdom...
  created: '2006-01-09 19:03:32'
- author:
    name: tyfont
    picture: 111388
  body: "Hello there everyone... this is also my first post here, and it is all about
    ttf font with kerning pairs that don't show up in Photoshop CS2! The excact same
    problem that Heners had.\r\n\r\nLet's start from scratch!\r\n\r\n- Win XP SP2
    \r\n- FontLab v.5 (Demo),  \r\n- Type Tool 2 (Demo), \r\n- ttf files tested in
    Photoshop CS2 / Flash 8 when installed.\r\n\r\nI know that the demo versions of
    Fontlab and Type Tool have limitations as it concerns the number of glyphs/metrics
    exported/saved in a vfb file ect.\r\n\r\nI have also read the manual but didn't
    really get any help...\r\n\r\n\r\nLet's start all together like a tutorial...
    (and that's what i did)\r\n\r\n<strong>Step 1:</strong>\r\n\r\nI created a new
    font (unicode - MS Windows 1252Western) from scratch at <strong>Fontlab 5 (Demo)</strong>,
    and only draw with the rectangular tool 3 letters D, E and F with only one kerning
    pair  E F +1500 (yes so large number in order to easily see that the kerning will
    be embended). I can see the pair in the table at the right side of kerning window
    and i then choose \"Generate kern feature\"...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mypreviewmetrics3fv.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n...so
    as to be saved in the opentype panel too with the code <strong>feature kern {}
    </strong>.\r\n\r\nI then saved the vfb file... and chose to Generate font (ttf)
    with the default values in the options. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fontlabgenerateoptions6je.gif]\r\n\r\nBefore
    i install it, i opened the generated ttf in Fontlab 5 again just to be sure that
    the 1 pair i created was still there... and yes i could see it in the kerning
    window. \r\n\r\nSo i installed it in the system... but the kerning pair was not
    shown in Photoshop CS2 (Metrics was the selection for kerning in the PS type tool)
    \  :(\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Step 2:</strong>\r\n\r\nI created a new font (unicode
    - MS Windows 1252Western) from scratch at <strong>Type Tool 2 (Demo)</strong>,
    and again draw with the rectangular tool 3 letters D, E and F with only one kerning
    pair  E F +1500 (for the same reason as Step 1). I can see the pair in the status
    bar of the Metrics window as there are no tables in TypeTool.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typetoolmetrics8mc.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\n...and
    then chose Generate ttf with the default values at the options\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typetoolgenerateoptions9mu.gif]\r\n\r\n...
    and when i installed the font on the system... Photoshop could write with the
    right value (+1500) of the kerning pair i created!!! :)  Hoorey! for the cheaper
    Type Tool!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Step 3:</strong>\r\n\r\nI took the generated
    ttf file from Step 2 (that Type Tool 2 had created) and opened it in FontLab...
    i could see the kerning pair there too, and i decided to generate a ttf from that
    file again (with different file/font/family name) just to see the results! Once
    again Fontlab failed in generating a ttf that Photoshop CS2 could write with the
    kerning pair included in the font. :o(\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>Step 4:</strong>\r\n\r\nI
    then took the ttf that FontLab created (Step 1) and opened it in TypeTool 2, to
    see once again that there was a kerning pair included... i chose Generate ttf
    with the default values and a warning window came up!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/warning.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    press the Continue button with the GPOS table selected (without knowing what this
    is all about)... and for this reason TypeTool 2 failed for the first time to generate
    a ttf that PS could write with the kerning pair included!!!\r\n\r\nWhen at the
    warning window chose not to select the GPOS - 80 table... then PS could write
    with the kerning pair included!!!\r\n\r\nSo what this is all about?? any hints?
    If someone knows something i would be glad if he shared his thoughts... if he
    will say to me \"RTFM\", at least tell me the page where i can read that info...
    that explains it all... and how to create a font with kerning pairs that will
    work...\r\n\r\n\r\nSo far so good with my 4 Steps tutorial... and neither of them
    was able for FontLab to Generate a font that will produce ttf that would have
    a working pair in Photoshop CS2...\r\n\r\n\r\nSo here comes a \"free\" font from
    www.backpacker.gr <strong>BPpong - download TrueType</strong> that amazed me...!\r\n\r\n<strong>Step
    5:</strong>\r\n\r\nI downloaded the BPpong ttf file... opened it in FontLab (Demo)
    and chose save as vfb. Once again warning windows came up telling me all about
    the Demo restrictions and the final vfb was saved with fewer glyphs than the original.
    It's ok with me... i will only need 1 kerning pair and a couble o glyphs to work.
    The BPpong ttf had many pairs already included (~2.200) which i deleted them all
    from the table in the kerning/metrics window and also from the opentype panel...
    I then created my good old kerning pair E F +1500 :o) and then selected the \"Generate
    kern feature\" so as to be the only pair in the feature kern in opentype panel.
    I cliked at Generate font (with default settings) and a new warning came up to
    me...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/attention4oe.gif]\r\n\r\n!?!
    if anyone knows what this also means... i'm all ears (eyes)!! \r\n\r\nAnyway binary
    and compiled worked just the same!!! I saw Fontlab for the fist time giving me
    a ttf with the ability to have the kerning pair included and Photoshop could show
    it right!!!!\r\n\r\nSo what special settings does this font has?\r\n\r\n\r\nI'm
    so confused.... i just need to have Fonlab to work like TypeTool does... create
    fonts with embended kerning pairs...\r\n\r\nThank you for reading till down here...
    :o)\r\n\r\nHope someone can help..."
  created: '2006-02-25 00:18:52'
- author:
    name: .
  body: I have experienced a problem in the past with FontLab where an OT font with
    only a kern feature will not work. If there is also a liga(ture) feature, everything's
    golden. It's important that the kern feature be the last one in the list, too...
  children:
  - author:
      name: tyfont
      picture: 111388
    body: "Hmm well Chester i don't think this is logical for a 6 times expensive
      software compared to TypeTool...  \r\n\r\nYou mean that if i want to buy the
      great FontLab Studio for 645$ and i want to create a font with only having some
      kerning pairs, i have to add ligature features too? wow...  Then i should better
      buy the 6 times cheaper typetool to do my job, although its interface / tools
      aren't so rich and productive...\r\n\r\nAnyway i hope that someone who really
      knows what this is all about will read this thread... and i'm sure that it is
      all about options and OT technology that TypeTool doesn't let the user do the
      adjustments...\r\n\r\nIf anyone knows a url that shows a tutorial about creating
      a simple font in FontLab with some kerning pairs that will show up in major
      software, i would be glad...\r\n\r\nAt least anyone can try the Steps above
      and see for himself if that works or not...\r\n\r\nCheers!"
    created: '2006-02-25 11:27:36'
  created: '2006-02-25 01:03:56'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "You don't need to use the \"kern\" feature to have kerning in a TrueType
    font. \r\n\r\nThe \"kern\" feature is a more advanced and efficient way to set
    up kerning and is used only in OpenType fonts. It allows the use of something
    called \"class kerning\" which lets you group similar glyphs into classes for
    kerning purposes, which is especially fonts with large multi-lingual character
    sets which would have unreasonably large kerning tables otherwise.\r\n\r\nIf you
    remove the \"kern\" feature (or disable the inclusion of OT features when you
    generate the font), you should get a standard kern table instead when you generate
    the font."
  created: '2006-02-25 15:55:22'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: BTW, if you're serious about learning to use FontLab, I would recommend Leslie
    Cabarga's book Learn FontLab Fast. It cuts to the chase and gives you step by
    step recipes for making fonts. It covers TypeTool, FontLab 4.x, and FontLab Studio
    5 (though I don't know if the FLS5 information is complete since the book came
    out before it was released).
  created: '2006-02-25 16:04:54'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "tyfont, in my experience, there are always little hiccups in typeface development.
    It's not like Lego, with a binary relationship betwen parts, but is much more
    organic, temperamental and difficult to wrangle. I have spent some time wrestling
    with font files - mine and other people's - trying to figure out why one seemingly-simple
    thing won't work, and answers are sometimes elusive. I'm sure that many people
    here can tell horror stories. And the larger your type families get, the harder
    it is to get everything working consistently.\r\n\r\nIf you think of FontLab or
    TypeTool as being hammers, you'll have a better appreciation for them. You need
    a hammer to hang a painting; the hammer being the tool you use to force the nail
    into the wall. But depending upon who is holding the hammer, how firmly they're
    holding the nail, where in the wall they're banging the nail... Well, the hammer
    becomes simply a component in the huge operation. You might bend 100 nails and
    blame the hammer, when in fact the problem is that the wall is made of concrete.
    If you want that nail to stick in the wall, you'll need to drill a hole first.\r\n\r\nSo,
    while my suggestion may be a workaround, it also happens to have proved successful
    for me in the past, and I was sharing my knowledge. Hopefully someone who knows
    what s/he is talking about will materialise and fix your problem for you. Have
    a nice weekend.\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: tyfont
      picture: 111388
    body: "Thank you very much Chester for your really great explanation to my issue...
      :o)\r\n\r\nI hope i will find out what my wall is made of, or find someone who
      can tell me some tips on that matter...  \r\n\r\n*I will try ASAP the tip that
      Mark wrote above...\r\n\r\nNick  :o)"
    children:
    - author:
        name: tyfont
        picture: 111388
      body: "Yes!!!  I finally did it!! \r\n\r\nThanx a lot Mark and your precious
        tip!!\r\n\r\nAll i did was to also uncheck the [<strong>Generate \"kern\"
        feature if it is not defined</strong>] at <strong>Tools / Options / Generating
        OpenType & TrueType / Kerning</strong>! Because if this thing was turned on...
        even if i didn't have kerning in the opentype panel... this was created at
        the \"Generate font\" procedure!\r\n\r\nAs i also read in the FL5 Manual at
        page 110...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/it_worked.gif]\r\n\r\nSo
        many options... it is just like a cockpit there...\r\n\r\n\r\nThanx again
        guys!!  hope this will work for others too!"
      created: '2006-02-27 10:43:55'
    created: '2006-02-26 20:26:57'
  created: '2006-02-25 19:01:51'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> You mean that if i want to buy the great \r\n> FontLab Studio for 645$
    and i want to create \r\n> a font with only having some kerning pairs, \r\n> i
    have to add ligature features too? wow\u2026 \r\n\r\nNo. He means that if you
    want to make an OpenType PS font that has kerning in Adobe InDesign CS/CS2, Illustrator
    CS/CS2 or other Adobe applications, you also need to add another OpenType Layout
    feature into the font. This has nothing to do with \"the great FontLab Studio
    for 645$\". If your OpenType PS font only contains the \"kern\" OTL feature and
    no other features, you will get no kerning in Adobe applications \u2014 no matter
    whether you build your font using FontLab 4.x, FontLab Studio 5, DTL FontMaster
    or Adobe FDK for OpenType. It's a bug in Adobe applications that Thomas Phinney
    hopes will be fixed in future releases. \r\n\r\nOpenType PS fonts with just the
    \"kern\" OpenType Layout feature and no other features work fine in other OpenType
    Layout-savvy environments, e.g. Windows Presentation Foundation (aka Avalon) or
    Mellel. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-03 16:17:31'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> All i did was to also uncheck the [Generate \u201Ckern\u201D feature \r\n>
    if it is not defined] at Tools / Options / Generating \r\n> OpenType & TrueType
    / Kerning! \r\n\r\nYes, this is on by default because novice users will just specify
    their kerning in the Metrics Window and don't want to be bothered with manually
    editing stuff in the OpenType panel. But if you compile your features yourself
    using \"Build kern feature\" in the OpenType panel or \"Apply and Save\" in Kerning
    Assistance, then you'll most likely will want to turn this feature off. \r\n\r\n>
    So many options\u2026 it is just like a cockpit there\u2026\r\n\r\nA very good
    comparison. If you learn to be an airplane pilot, you'd better read the plane's
    manual and learn to work with the cockpit. If you want to develop OpenType fonts,
    it's just the same thing. Fonts are not trivial things and no matter how much
    we'd like to make their creation simple, it won't become simpler below a certain
    level. \r\n\r\nMany people long for the simplicity of Fontographer 3.5 but forget
    that that application was only good for creating Adobe Standard-encoded Type 1
    fonts with 230 or so glyphs. For anything else, it was useless or at least very
    cumbersome. \r\n\r\nThe goal of OpenType fonts is to reduce complexity of typographic
    design on the *user side*. But nothing gets lost in Nature: the overhead of complexity
    gets loaded off the final user towards the font developer. \r\n\r\nIn short: read
    the manual, guys! :) We *did* improve it in FontLab Studio 5. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-03 16:25:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'Why not design FL so that the "Generate Kern Feature" turns off automatically
    when the "Apply and Save" feature is used? '
  created: '2006-03-03 18:18:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mark\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-02-25 16:50:38'
- author:
    name: 386sky
  body: "Here's what you did:\r\n1. Pressed Win R.\r\n2. Cutted mspaint.\r\n3. Typed
    in C:\\Program Files.\r\n4. Double clicked Fontlab directory.\r\n5. Double clicked
    directory, \"Studio5 trial\".\r\n6. Double clicked uninstall.exe.\r\n7. It popped
    up with the installation wizard, which it didn't uninstall.\r\n8. Reinstalled
    Fontlab Studio."
  created: '2008-12-08 07:52:44'
- author:
    name: rstefan250
  body: "So many years after your original posts I came across them because I have
    a similar problem in my font creation. I have over 1000 manually made kerning
    pairs but none of them show in my Adobe applications after I save the font as
    either TrueType/OpenType TT or OpenType PS in FontLab. I have also also unchecked
    the [generate \u201Ckern\u201D feature] but that didn't do the trick for me. I'm
    also not sure I understand what twardoch is trying to say through \"add another
    OpenType Layout feature into the font\". I'm new to font creation, this is my
    first font and believe it or not I've been working on it over a year in my spare
    time. I'm also learning FontLab as I go but I couldn't find anything in the manual.
    I'm also reading Leslie Cabarga's book Learn FontLab Fast but still couldn't find
    anything. So any help will be greatly appreciated and if any of you has new information
    or input on this problem pleas drop a line. \r\n\r\nThank you in advance!"
  created: '2015-01-18 14:29:47'
- author:
    name: rstefan250
  body: '...'
  created: '2015-01-25 18:16:56'
date: '2006-01-06 15:27:03'
title: Fontlab 5 font file ignores kerning values

---
