---
author:
  name: paul d hunt
  picture: 109422
body: not that i'm a prude or anything, but isn't <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/calypso/">this</a>
  a bit much for myfonts? or is it just my over-sensitive victorian sensibilities
  rearing their head?
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe it is just URW's way of keeping abreast of the typographic times.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-07 16:10:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: well then, that right there made this whole posting worth it. thnx for the
    laugh, dez! but seriously tho...
  created: '2006-01-07 16:16:36'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "It sure seems SEX still SELLS, even if its 'just' typefaces\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2006-01-07 16:22:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think Dav has the answer. The typeface in question is kinda ho-hum and
    would probably go unnoticed save for the marketing mind that made it go topless.
    My joke was actually a veiled way of saying the same thing.  I was equating typographic
    times with the normal fare of marketing prevalent today. Der Spiegel Magazine
    for years has made me laugh with its proclivity for putting what I call \"Babe
    Glitz\" on the cover. Imagine if Time Magazine would do the same here in the States.\r\nYou
    must admit, MyFonts made you look! Would you have given that font a second glance
    otherwise? \r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maxim Zhukov
      picture: 110611
    body: "> <em>The typeface in question is kinda ho-hum and would probably go unnoticed
      save for the marketing mind that made it go topless. </em>[...]<em> You must
      admit, MyFonts made you look! Would you have given that font a second glance
      otherwise?</em>\r\n\r\nChris, the typeface in question is a design classic,
      by the unforgettable Roger Excoffon. I remember its being featured in <em>Caract\xE8re
      No\xEBl 1958</em>. The release of Calypso by Fonderie Olive produced quite a
      sir in the typographic community. That typeface was as hot as the <a href=\"http://www.calypsoworld.org/us/us-belafonte-2.htm\">LP</a>
      with the songs it was apparently inspired by, and named after (I am sure you
      remember those tunes). Of course, it all looks different from 2005..."
    created: '2006-01-07 17:52:07'
  created: '2006-01-07 16:38:39'
- author:
    name: sohappy2
    picture: 111043
  body: "the \"not what you're looking for?\" is extra funny with that picture. it
    made me giggle out loud. hey, if people can use sex to sell bubblegum and windex,
    why not fonts? fonts are way sexy. :) \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-07 16:54:25'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Anybody remember the old display font "Body"? The letterforms were made out
    of silhouettes of the human body in various contorted forms. The cap M was very
    sweet - two figures in profile facing each other and holding hands. But the N,
    on the other hand, showed one figure holding the genitals of another. Can't find
    the font (a search for body is useless) probably never digitized. It was in some
    huge honking ringbinder/specimen book we had in the 80s.
  created: '2006-01-07 17:05:52'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: http://www.linotype.com/59873/safefontregular-font.html
  created: '2006-01-07 17:18:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i guess this kind of thing doesn't draw the bat of an eye in Europe, where
    [[URW]] is based, but i thought for such a general audience website as myfonts
    it isn't appropriate. i mean look at the rest of the site, it looks like you're
    in cartoonland and then, bam! i mean, <em>we got kids in the audience, honey.
    we wouldn't want them to see [her] in that skimpy little thing, now would we?</em>
  created: '2006-01-07 17:39:10'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>we got kids in the audience</em>\r\n\r\nDo we? I mean, I've never thought
    about using this kind of advertising either, but I wouldn't say that font-shopping
    is a universal thing. You need a credit card to buy fonts. How may kids have their
    own credit cards? (somehow, I'm afraid of the answer here\u2026)\r\n\r\nAnd moreover,
    even if there are \"kids\" in the audience, meaning 13\u201317 year olds, is it
    really that bad if they see some partial frontal expose? I mean, they are on the
    internet and all\u2026 it isn't like the real porn isn't hidden away somewhere
    where they'll never find it. \r\n\r\nI doubt that real children (i.e.,the PG crowd,
    who do deserve protection) are shopping for anything online, much less fonts.\r\n\r\nChris:
    <em>\u201CBabe Glitz\"</em>\r\nIn Europe, the best selling newspapers are mostly
    tabloids. I can't speak for the rest of Europe, but Germany's #1 tabloid (www.bild.de)
    has a topless girl on the cover (albeit below the fold) five days a week. Don't
    tell me the PG crowd, or even the G crowd, never sees a paper purchased by 5%
    of the population daily."
  created: '2006-01-07 17:50:38'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>we got kids in the audience</em>\r\n\r\nsorry, it was a <em>drop dead</em>
    reference, i couldn't help myself. <em>are we on cops? harold, are we on cops?</em>"
  created: '2006-01-07 18:06:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"the typeface in question is a design classic\"\r\n\r\nI must have missed
    that one Maxim.  Perhaps it is just my personal feeling about that font. Lets
    just say that I would never buy it no matter what position it held in the minds
    of others. It reminds me of those awful faux Chinese faces that were used a while
    ago to indicate something of Asian origin. \r\nMy type knowledge must be lacking
    as well since I never heard of Mr. Excoffin or have seen this font before today.
    That is what I get for being self taught :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-07 18:54:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I see Dan has posted a link that will reduce the use of Visual Aids :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-07 18:56:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Calypso is a very pop art font.\r\nThe prominence of the halftone was a device
    used in the '60s by artists Roy Lichstenstein and Richard Hamilton, among others.
    Chris is right, the letterforms are a bit cheesy, but that's also pop art territory.
    The outrageous formal invention is all Excoffon."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maxim Zhukov
      picture: 110611
    body: "> <em>Calypso is a very pop art font.</em>\r\n\r\nCalypso is also a very
      modernist font. Curved surfaces, \"streamlined\" shapes, ovals, eggs, etc. are
      very typical modernist design features. Think of: Saarinen, Courr\xE8ges, Noguchi,
      Moore, Expo \u201958 in Brussels, M\xF6bius Strip, and... oh, Barbarella."
    created: '2006-01-07 20:40:24'
  created: '2006-01-07 19:10:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I remember the benday treatment well from that era. I just think this particular
    usage is major ugly.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-07 19:31:42'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "One of the differences between North America and Europe is nipples. They
    are taboo and not to be seen in Canada and the US, but in most of Europe they
    are everywhere.\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to the Calypso image, I'm offended by the
    racial profiling. \"Calypso is music from 'The Islands', and this typeface is
    called Calypso, so let's put a topless woman from 'The Islands' in the graphic.\"
    The tastelessness isn't the exposed breasts. In the same vein, there is a series
    of television commercials running here in the states for some flavoured rum which
    reinforces and amplifies every racial stereotype about black Caribbeans.\r\n\r\nWelcome
    to the 19th century."
  created: '2006-01-07 19:43:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Hey mon lighten up and pass the spleef.\r\n\r\n(you know I'm kidding...)"
  created: '2006-01-07 20:04:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Daylight cum an' me wun' go home.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-07 20:31:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nI see what you mean about the German tabloid Bild!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bild.t-online.de/BTO/index.html\r\n\r\nThe
    Calypso thing is nothing compared to Bild! Is that thing just sitting on the news
    stand out there like all the other newspapers?\r\nEven our lovely \"National Enquirer\"
    keeps the cover fairly tame if you don't mind the odd \"Kentucky Women Gives Birth
    to a Jeep Cherokee\" kind of headlines :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sander
    body: "Yeah, Bild - and the like, its not precicely alone in this nor especially
      noted for its images - is on the news-stands like every other tabloid. And basicly
      nobody bothers and there is no age limit to buying them. Its an integral part
      to being bad old decadent Europe ;-) \r\n"
    created: '2006-01-09 19:46:55'
  created: '2006-01-07 21:12:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Having a toddler who's still on breast milk, exposed breasts seem like a
    non-event to me. OTOH, there's no particular reason to offend conservative American
    sensibilities, either.\r\n\r\nOn the plus side, my discussion of this thread with
    my wife resulted in our 19-month-old Miranda saying \"font\" for the first time,
    which was good.\r\n\r\nThere's part of me that wants to agree with Chester about
    the racial profiling question, though.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-07 21:14:08'
- author:
    name: Giordano
    picture: 111222
  body: ">not that i\u2019m a prude or anything, but isn\u2019t this a bit much for
    myfonts? or is it just my over-sensitive victorian sensibilities rearing their
    head?\r\n\r\nActually, your reaction is pretty prudish, but it\u2019s not your
    fault. Remember, America was founded by prudes. I mean, they forbade dancing and
    they fled England to escape the wonton excesses of Europe\u2026\r\n\r\n>When it
    comes to the Calypso image, I\u2019m offended by the racial profiling.\r\n\r\nShould
    the lady in the picture be Inuit or something? Racial equality is one thing, but
    should the little inuit boy on Klondike Bar packaging be Sikh or Russian in the
    name of \u201Cequality\u201D?\r\n\r\n>In the same vein, there is a series of television
    commercials running here in the states for some flavoured rum which reinforces
    and amplifies every racial stereotype about black Caribbeans.\r\n\r\nThere are
    Molson Beer commercials that reinforce every stereotype about Canadians. Are they
    racist? Why is it that white Canadians are free to indulge in self-deprecating
    humour whilst black Carribeans are not?"
  created: '2006-01-07 22:48:37'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Hey, \r\n\r\nNo limits right! I'm up for bestiality in advertising!\r\nWooo.\r\n\r\nps.
    Stereotypes are rooted in truth. Because it's a stereotype makes it offensive?
    As much as I don't care for the lack of class on their part, why not associate
    it with 'the islands'? . Hey I got it, lets put a fat white guy behind a desk
    scratching his armpits. That will carry a better message! I just don't get it
    ! She's not being shown in a negative light at all! If there were dark skinned
    people dancing there, would you say the same thing. Lets not associate hawaii
    with volcanoes, OK? Certain people here might not like that, because they are
    the self-righteous defenders of the under-represented! Here's to making life like
    a waking coma! Cheers!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-07 23:36:24'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Chris: <em>Is that thing just sitting on the news stand out there like all
    the other newspapers?</em>\r\n\r\nOf course! <em>Bild</em> is Germany's #1 newspaper,
    in terms of sales at least. I'm sure your daughter'd remember seeing it practically
    on every street corner, although Munich has its own popular tabloid that might
    take away some of Bild's market share there. I should note that Germany does have
    serious, quality papers, too, which usually don't resort to such sales tactics.
    Every country has an array of quality when it comes to newspapers. I suspect that
    this is quite true in the UK as well."
  created: '2006-01-08 00:20:07'
- author:
    name: Giordano
    picture: 111222
  body: "> I suspect that this is quite true in the UK as well.\r\n\r\nThere's that
    British tabloid with the topless girl in the middle.. I think it's the Sun? Anyway
    I forget exactly what it is but there's a topless woman in the middle of the paper."
  created: '2006-01-08 00:35:47'
- author:
    name: akma
    picture: 110015
  body: "Chris, Excoffon designed not only Calpyso but also well-known faces such
    as Choc, Mistral, and Banco. According to MyFonts, he also designed Antique Olive
    -- one of my very least favorite faces, though I like the other Excoffon designs.\r\n\r\nGiordano,
    it is indeed the <cite>Sun</cite>, page 3 (I believe)."
  created: '2006-01-08 01:01:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Akma,\r\nI Googled him a while ago. I do like Mistral but Antique Olive leaves
    me cold too.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-08 01:39:50'
- author:
    name: .
  body: ">>In the same vein, there is a series of television commercials running here
    in the states for some flavoured rum which reinforces and amplifies every racial
    stereotype about black Caribbeans.\r\n\r\n>There are Molson Beer commercials that
    reinforce every stereotype about Canadians. Are they racist? Why is it that white
    Canadians are free to indulge in self-deprecating humour whilst black Carribeans
    are not?\r\n\r\nIndeed, as a Canadian I am well aware that we are silly people,
    with our love of hockey, curling, maple syrup, and The Tragically Hip. (The best
    rock band in the universe, in case you didn't know.)\r\n\r\nMy problem is that
    these rum ads are obviously made by an American ad agency, and there is nothing
    redeeming about their portrayal of black Caribbeans. The actors in the ads may
    as well be in blackface makeup for all of the subtlety of the racism.\r\n\r\nAnd
    yes, I do find ads featuring stereotypical images of Inuit to be inappropriate
    too. And any other commercial message supposedly delivered by a representative
    member of a ethnic or national group. Why do we need to perpetuate stereotypes?
    That's exactly how stereotypes are strenghened and passed down from one generation
    to the next. A television commercial or a 100-pixel square type specimen is both
    the symptom and the disease.\r\n\r\nYeah, I know I'm taking this way too seriously,
    and I'm probably coming across as a liberal Canadian assh*le, but something like
    the \"Calypso\" image shows such huge disregard and lack of sensitivity that it's
    stunning. Would URW sell one of their blackletter types with an image of Hitler?"
  created: '2006-01-08 02:45:41'
- author:
    name: Giordano
    picture: 111222
  body: "Why is showing an Inuit on a Klondike bar racist? Inuit are the major group
    in the Klondike, so it's representative of the area. What exactly is the evil
    stereotype? That Inuit wear parkas?\r\n\r\nLikewise, what is the stereotype in
    the Calypso illustration? That in many Carribean countries, the majority of people
    are black? Isn't this just fact? Having a white woman there would be like a Quebec
    tourism ad with English-speakers, when we are only 10% of the province's population
    and only 25% of Montreal's (even if we're a majority in Westmount).\r\n\r\nSelling
    a blackletter font with an image of Hitler would be bad because Hitler was evil
    and killed people. However, if it were to be marketed with images of steins, lederhosen,
    and sauerkraut - things which are typically german - it might be cheesy, but not
    racist.\r\n\r\n>My problem is that these rum ads are obviously made by an American
    ad agency, and there is nothing redeeming about their portrayal of black Caribbeans.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know which brand you are talking about, but most of them are based in the
    countries where their product is produced. Anyway, whatever the owners' race or
    nationality, I wonder why the only way to feature any minority on television is
    for the portrayal to be \"redeeming\".\r\n\r\nLet me make a literary connection
    here. The Apprenticeship of Duddy Kravitz. Is it a book about a greedy jew, or
    a greedy man of the jewish faith? Anyone who claims that Duddy Kravitz is an anti-semitic
    story is wrong. Instead, they are projecting their own prejudices and stereotypes
    onto the story. Nowhere is it implied that Duddy is greedy because he's jewish
    (I doubt Mordecai Richler, a jew himself, would be a very big anti-semite), and
    nowhere is Duddy's faith ever connected in any way to his character. Rather, those
    who claim that it's so have made the connection themselves, either through internalized
    racism or some other hidden prejudice.\r\n\r\nIn the same way, it is <cite>you</cite>
    who have made the connection between the negative portrayal of <cite>people who
    happen to be black</cite> and the fact that they are black, when in fact the creator
    probably had no such connection in mind, but rather was trying to tap into a cheesy
    image like the one of Curling and Canadians or Lederhosen and Austrians/Germans.\r\n\r\nIt
    is people like you (and I promise you that I am in no way trying to be insulting
    or accusative when I say this, but merely pointing out an observation) who propagate
    these stereotypes by insisting that any greedy person on tv or in a book who happens
    to also be jewish is greedy <cite>because</cite> he's jewish, or that any black
    person on tv or in a book who falls into some other stereotype does so <cite>because</cite>
    he is black."
  created: '2006-01-08 03:58:18'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: "Giordano (and Eric_West, to some extent),\r\nI think it's more a matter of
    exploitation than placing the appropriate race on the appropriate package. Calypso
    = ambiguously Carribean = topless black woman = cheap thrills. What is the relationship
    of power between an impoverished black woman (I'm assuming poverty because why
    else would someone subject themselves to sexual humiliation?) living on an island
    whose main industry is tourism, and a relatively wealthy white male(I'm assuming
    white because most of the pictures I've seen from type conferences are full of
    crackers) tourist? I'm starting to sound vaguely feminist, and I don't even know
    anything about feminist theory. Nor do I want to.\r\n\r\nI think my point is that
    the specimen on myfonts is cheap and in poor taste."
  created: '2006-01-08 04:16:49'
- author:
    name: Giordano
    picture: 111222
  body: "Well if you wanna talk about objectification of women, I'll find you a <cite>Got
    Milk?</cite> ad with a shirtless Usher with reasons to drink milk written with
    permanent marker on his body and a few Marky Mark ads. If you wanna say that sex
    in advertising is wrong, I'll tell you sex is present in our every action, otherwise
    it wouldn't be made manifest in the media, and it wouldn't sell so well, and it's
    really only North Americans who are so coy anyway.\r\n\r\nAnd, once again, if
    you want to make a case against the exploitation of empoverished <cite>women</cite>,
    then go ahead. But why is the assumption that <cite>this</cite> woman is empoverished
    and being exploited? Because she's black? You've made that assumption. Maybe she's
    just like having her shirt off. It's legal in Toronto, you know. Hey, maybe she's
    not even from the Carribean! Maybe she was from Toronto all along. See, your assumptions
    and those of others have been cast upon the image. \r\n\r\nAnd when you assume,
    you make an  a s s  out of u and  m e."
  created: '2006-01-08 04:29:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I am reminded of William Safire's clever summation of the US legal definition
    of pornography: 'It's not the teat, it's the tumidity.'\r\n\r\nI don't like the
    use of sex, particularly sexually objectifying images, to sell things, especially
    when so much such marketing is actually aimed directly at children. In this case,
    I think its funnier rather than sexy: a visual play on the name of the typeface
    and stereotypical associations of a sultry Caribean bikini-tops-optional lifestyle
    all to sell a what? A font license, which isn't exactly something that most people
    think of as sultry or sexy."
  created: '2006-01-08 04:34:10'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Actually, using Hitler to sell blackletter fonts might reach their target
    audience...\r\n\r\nWhat I find offensive is not her race (or her implied income
    bracket) but the fact that she is topless. Are men the only target audence for
    the Calypso font? \r\n\r\nThat said, Giordano, I think it's incredibly naive of
    you to suggest that \"it is you who have made the connection between the negative
    portrayal of people who happen to be black and the fact that they are black, when
    in fact the creator probably had no such connection in mind\". Have you NEVER
    worked in advertising? I mean, please..."
  created: '2006-01-08 04:39:09'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Cheap, yes. Poor taste, yes. But MyFonts is known for their lame promotions...
    \"Want cowboy fonts, type <em>yeehaw!</em>\"\r\n\r\nAnd come on, Thomas, how many
    breastfeeding women stand bare-chested with one hand in their hair and the other
    in their pants? Don't pretend this is not trying to be sexual... There's a difference
    between nurturing infants and companies hawking wares with cheap titilation."
  created: '2006-01-08 04:48:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Why is showing an Inuit on a Klondike bar racist? Inuit are the major
    group in the Klondike, so it\u2019s representative of the area.</em>\r\n\r\nAhem.The
    Inuit have never been the major group in the Klondike and there are very few of
    them living anywhere in the Yukon and, as far as I am aware, there are no longer
    any specifically Inuit settlements. The Canadian Inuit are concentrated in the
    other northern territories, and only in Nunavut are they the sole significant
    aboriginal population.\r\n\r\nIn the Yukon, aboriginal groups account for less
    than 15% of the current population, and almost all of them are indian, not Inuit,
    most being speakers of one or other of the Athapaskan or Tlingit family of languages.
    The indian band located in the Klondike region are Han, an Athapaskan group. They
    are ethnically and linguistically unrelated to Inuit."
  created: '2006-01-08 04:54:06'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: "John Hudson laying the smack down!\r\n\r\nGiordano, you are brilliant and
    eloquent and I will no longer argue with you."
  created: '2006-01-08 05:40:08'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I didn't say that there was no difference between breastfeeding and using
    breasts as a clearly sexual element in advertising. I was just saying that personally,
    I don't find exposed breasts particularly shocking or a huge deal.\r\n\r\nThis
    may of course be related to the fact that we have a 19-month-old baby, and that
    the two families we are closest to also have children of breast-feeding age.\r\n\r\nAll
    that being said, I am not saying that I would create such an ad, and in fact if
    we had such an ad in the works, I would probably object on the grounds that it
    it's going to offend some people, and isn't all *that* clever, and the argument
    that it's sexual objectification is not unreasonable.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand,
    would we be talking about a 50-year-old font at this much length if they hadn't
    done the ad? I guess it worked....\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-08 07:45:14'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Hey, that's a great idea! I think I'll do a blackletter font and call it
    Hitler or Nazifont or something like that. It'll be a mediocre font, with a somewhat
    shaky grounding in the long and glorious tradition of the blackletter form, but
    the controversy around the name will draw far more attention than mere technical
    excellence and beauty would.\r\n\r\nPaging Dr. <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Godwin's_law\">Godwin</a>."
  created: '2006-01-08 08:26:09'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Male or female, I think if all of us spent more time with nipples in our mouth,
    we'd have much less to say. :)
  created: '2006-01-08 08:29:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "1. That advertising constantly uses sex to sell doesn't make it either in
    good taste or ethical. \"Sins repeated seem permitted.\" \r\n\r\n2. I generally
    like sexy women in ads--ok, I REALLY like sexy women in ads--but The problem I
    have with this image is that it is not only sexy, but degrading to the woman.
    The two are not the same. It is an unmistakable soft-porn image, as Joe Pemberton
    notes above. Would you want your daughter to grow up to pose like this for the
    public? As Chris Rock said in his recent comedy routine mentioning his baby daughter,
    \"I don't care who you are, if your daughter ends up on the [stripper's] pole,
    you f****d up! If you're a daddy, your job is: Keep her off the pole!\"\r\n\r\nWhat
    chester is uncomfortable about I suspect is only indirectly a racial issue. Because
    the picture is degrading to the woman, it indirectly raises the question of whether
    the photographer and advertiser think it's somehow ok if the woman is black and
    poor.\r\n\r\nI am amused that so many here seem to be so scared of being called
    a prude that they can't say the obvious, which is that this is in bad taste because
    it is degrading to the woman. "
  created: '2006-01-08 12:32:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Maybe the ++ in URW's name signifies Double-D? Yes, the ad is in bad taste,
    but bad taste can sometimes be funny, as someone who quotes Chris Rock comedy
    routines must acknowledge. In this case, I continue to find the juxtaposition
    of this font and this bad taste and in so many ways objectionable image funny.
    I wonder, was it meant to be funny? These little square ads are provided to MyFonts
    by the foundries, and I wonder whether MyFonts has policies about their content?\r\n\r\nIn
    many ways I find this kind of blatant soft porn image less offensive than much
    of the sexualised advertising I see -- or used to see when I lived in a city --,
    even if the latter did not usually involve 'nudity'. At least this woman looks
    like a woman, however augmented, and not a fifteen year-old seeking social approval
    through sexualised fashion and body language."
  created: '2006-01-08 13:09:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">bad taste can sometimes be funny\r\n\r\nYes, 'Ali G' is a genius at stupidity
    and bad taste and he is hilarious, especially his character 'Borat'. But if this
    particular ad is an attempt at humor it seems to me a pretty lame one. If anyone
    can make ads for type sexy or funny or both without being gross I am all for it.
    This one is gross and lame.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, maybe it is just a first
    try. Maybe there are many more and better to follow! \r\n\r\n>a fifteen year-old
    seeking social approval through sexualised fashion and body language\r\n\r\nYou
    mean you don't JUST LOVE Brittney? :)"
  created: '2006-01-08 13:31:29'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: Sex sells folks, and in this case, the font (sex?) are on sale, reduced from
    $39.00 to 19.50 for the month of January, nobody mentioned this I think. This
    discussion is ok, but really, let's get back to work. Oh, can you find porn on
    the web easily? You bet. And I don't have to tell you how to get there. Let's
    focus on type design and it's associated stuff. Jordan
  created: '2006-01-08 13:56:49'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "When I was in my mid-teens I traveled with a school group to a Inuit community
    in the Northwest Terriories, (now in Nunavut.) When we found out that \"eskimo\"
    means \"one who eats raw meat\", we asked one of our hosts how he felt about being
    called eskimo. He said, \"Well, we do eat raw meat. Be I prefer 'Inuit'.\"\r\n\r\nI'll
    just reiterate here that my objection isn't to the bared breasts, but to the source
    of the advertising: A German foundry. As a Canadian I am allowed to make fun of
    my hockey- and curling-loving countrymen, myself included (Go Habs!) and I appreciate
    the \"I am Canadian\" ad campaign because it was made by Canadians. I'm pretty
    sure that the rum ads \u2014 for Captain Morgan's Parrot Bay brand \u2014 were
    created by a U.S. ad agency for U.S. consumption.\r\n\r\nPropagate your own stereotypes
    and myths if you must, but don't do it for other people. That's not being Politcally
    Correct, it's just being correct."
  created: '2006-01-08 14:06:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Do you think URW++ created this little banner? I bet someone at myfonts.com
    is being paid (overpaid I'd say) for the nifty and - but for this thread - pointless
    job of creating these font samples. Probably bored one late night, a little too
    much ganja, threw this sample together.\r\n\r\nBeyond the bare bazongas, nobody
    has pointed out the fact that she is pulling her pants down."
  created: '2006-01-08 14:22:26'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Patricia, foundries make their own banners for MyFonts.com, not the other
    way around.
  created: '2006-01-08 14:42:32'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "What font is this in the logo? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/cover_250.jpg]"
  created: '2006-01-08 14:43:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My guess is that the women is either a model or an actress from where-ever
    getting paid to do the shoot. The people doing the ad probably had no racist or
    sexist intentions, they just had poor taste or maybe had been drinking too much
    151 rum.\r\nFor me personally, the ad sucks and the font sucks--a match made in
    \"---\" (fill in the blank for location from New York or Montreal to Montego Bay).\r\n$19.95
    buys this font, a Ginsu Knife, \"the Greatest hits\" of any second rate singer,
    or a \"Clapper\". Spend wisely.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-08 14:45:08'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Oh, can you find porn on the web easily? You bet.</em>\r\n\r\nexactly.
    i just was hoping myfonts wasn't gonna be one of those places."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Pixion
    body: "Jee,\r\n\r\nWhat's all the fuzz about? \r\n\r\nThis is an old post, but
      when I looked at the myFont site, it shows a silhouette of a carribean dancer
      girl (i.e. nothing exposed she could even wear a bikini..). Is this what the
      discussion is about, or did myFonts clean things up?\r\n\r\nSebastian (from
      Europe, so I am biassed).\r\n"
    created: '2006-09-22 20:00:41'
  created: '2006-01-08 15:29:58'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: "I didn't notice the ethnic origin of the model in the Calypso banner at first.
    It was only because I was trying to figure out what started the racist claims
    that I went back to myfonts.com and noticed.\r\n\r\nI don't know what that says
    about me (if anybody asks me I call myself Afro European).\r\n\r\nI don't know
    the font in the loaded logo, but the model is Abi Titmuss, which seems singularly
    appropriate.\r\n\r\nRichard"
  created: '2006-01-08 15:39:40'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yeah it's tacky, but bad taste is sooo trendy, ennit?\r\n\r\nSince we're
    discussing the ad in depth, here's more of a formal critique.\r\n\r\n1. Inadequate
    product demonstration. It's a missed opportunity to show how the tonal detail
    of the font is achieved: the ad square is the one place at Myfonts where there's
    space to show detail -- so it would have been good to show this sexy feature of
    the font up close, by putting one large glyph in the position presently occupied
    by the alphabet showing. So the viewer can get a better sense of the halftone
    scale in relation to the type height.\r\n\r\n2. Inconsistent use of colour. The
    all-white type is a bit too flat and cold for the saturated background and image.
    Some yellow would have been better, a big yellow C perhaps.\r\n\r\n3. Rhetorical
    mismatch of image and text. The image does not symbolize product features: She's
    not dancing; the calypso is a dance, and the typeface dances -- but the woman
    is in a static pose."
  created: '2006-01-08 17:31:18'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: If that picture makes you think of sex blame your own brain.
  created: '2006-01-08 18:21:33'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: "Following on from Nick's critique, I'd suggest that Calypso in negative doesn't
    work anyway.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/calypso.jpg]\r\nYou have to
    imagine that each letter needs its own internal light source.\r\n\r\nRichard"
  created: '2006-01-08 20:14:13'
- author:
    name: Giordano
    picture: 111222
  body: "><cite>That said, Giordano, I think it\u2019s incredibly naive of you to
    suggest that \u201Cit is you who have made the connection between the negative
    portrayal of people who happen to be black and the fact that they are black, when
    in fact the creator probably had no such connection in mind\u201D. Have you NEVER
    worked in advertising? I mean, please\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nThe connection made
    is between the people and the fact that they\u2019re from the Carribean, not the
    fact that they're black (like the Beer ads about Canada \u2013 not about white
    people)\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>>Ahem.The Inuit have never been the major group in the
    Klondike and there are very few of them living anywhere in the Yukon and, as far
    as I am aware, there are no longer any specifically Inuit settlements. The Canadian
    Inuit are concentrated in the other northern territories, and only in Nunavut
    are they the sole significant aboriginal population. </cite>\r\n\r\nYou\u2019re
    absolutely right. Sorry about that. What I meant to say was that they are the
    group most people associate with the Klondike. That says more about most people
    not caring enough about the Klondike to study its racial makeup and less about
    their racial insesitivity. Anyway they use a polar bear now\u2026\r\n\r\n><cite>Propagate
    your own stereotypes and myths if you must, but don\u2019t do it for other people.
    That\u2019s not being Politcally Correct, it\u2019s just being correct. </cite>\r\n\r\nFine,
    but what exactly is the myth or stereotype in showing a black woman in relation
    to a product associated with the Carribean? If the font was called Amsterdam and
    the woman was white, would you still be outraged? If so, then you are probably
    more concerned with the objectification of women (understandable) than racism.
    If not, then I ask you why an image of a topless black woman is racist when that
    of a topless white woman is not. Who decides that? You? Why does the black woman
    deserve more protection from objectification than the white woman? Is the hypothetical
    topless white woman not worthy of your outrage? Are white people somehow inferior
    to black people, that they may be objectified without guilt?\r\n\r\n\r\n><cite>I
    didn\u2019t notice the ethnic origin of the model in the Calypso banner at first.
    It was only because I was trying to figure out what started the racist claims
    that I went back to myfonts.com and noticed. </cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nExactly. Just
    for the record, the first time I saw this thread, I hardly batted an eyelash at
    the fact that the woman was topless, and I didn\u2019t notice her race until it
    was pointed out. I spent about 15 seconds on the page and then got bored\u2026\r\n\r\n><cite>If
    that picture makes you think of sex blame your own brain</cite>\r\n\r\nVery well
    put. That\u2019s exactly what I meant too. Also, if that picture makes you think
    of racism, blame your own brain."
  created: '2006-01-08 23:32:32'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: "\u2026 anybody have any idea why they used a picture of a model with straight
    hair rather than curly hair?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/marsha.jpg]\r\n\u2026
    does it matter?"
  created: '2006-01-08 23:56:00'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: As far as I'm concerned, if African-American women were represented in the
    type community OR on this website, this discussion would have ended ages ago.
  created: '2006-01-09 00:25:34'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: 'I would rather that a typeface would be inherently sexy enough to sell itself
    rather than having to resort to using the female body. '
  created: '2006-01-09 04:52:24'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Outrageous!\r\n\r\nWhat do typophiles thing about this? \r\n\r\nhttp://www.lovemag.com.ar/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.isopixel.net/archivos/2006/01/pornodesign-love/\r\n\r\nI
    would like to grab a copy of this magazine, type and girls... what an idea.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-01-09 06:00:46'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typoman.jpg]'
  created: '2006-01-09 12:08:18'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/olympic.jpg]\r\nBerlin Olympic Stadium"
  created: '2006-01-09 12:54:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Ah, count on Typophilers to do it right. Richard Hards' image of the black
    woman with the curly hair is great--and her zig-zag pose matches the type, and
    Richard both handles the color well and frames it well, unlike the original ad.
    It is actually a good ad for the typeface. The woman has an independent air, seems
    to be from the 60's like the typeface, and is sexy without being gross. She makes
    the type look sexy. \r\n\r\n[edit: Would it be still better if she were transformed
    by a mirror image, so she is looking at the type? Or too obvious?]  \r\n\r\nVincent
    Connair's second image, with the two men and the Fractur, is hilarious. \r\n\r\nThe
    issue of appropropiate use of sexual allure in art and advertising is actually
    quite a complex one. The original example that Paul Hunt points out is just bad,
    not least because the graphic design is bungled, as Nick Shinn has pointed out. "
  created: '2006-01-09 13:55:14'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Vincent Connair\u2019s second image, with the two men and the Fractur,
    is hilarious.</em>\r\n\r\nI like it, too. But Wilhelm Klingspor Gotisch would
    be more appropriate with that image. That looks so 1920s Nationalistic to me,
    right up Koch's ally.\r\n\r\nLuther'sche Fraktur is a digitization of the Luther'sche
    Gei\xDFerei's type, from the late 1600s. That'd look better smacked on the bottom
    of a monument to a king, a duke, or a Saint\u2014something baroque instead of
    20th Century."
  created: '2006-01-09 14:17:07'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: 'yes correct Dan, I didn''t try hard to find a nazi era font that went with
    the ideal male form from the same era. Actually the women statues at the stadium
    look like men since men posed for them. '
  created: '2006-01-09 14:48:09'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: "Thank you William.\r\n\r\nThe image is Patrick Lichfield's 1968 portrait
    of Marsha Hunt for American Vogue.\r\n\r\nRichard\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-09 14:58:54'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "It's tacky pap, but I think the racism is secondary to the generally exploitative
    nature of the photo, which is only so strong because it seems so out of place
    and the photo is so obviously pushing banal pop-culture softcore instead of tasteful
    sensuality or eroticism. The person responsible seems to be confusing the origins
    of the Calypso dance with the <a href=\"http://www.pantheon.org/articles/c/calypso.html\">Greek
    sea nymph</a>. Sounds like ignorance unintentionally giving birth to racism, which
    is all too common.\r\n\r\nBut, seriously, it's more stupid than anything. When
    has the name of a font been a good reason to choose it? How often does the name
    give you such a literal indication of its design properties? They don't show a
    picture of Chicago by the font of the same name. It's just cheap and lame. Perhaps
    Mrs. Eaves should have a racy pic as well? There'd be more reason for it. As someone
    else pointed out, Calypso the font has nothing to do with naked women, let alone
    naked women of potentially Carribean descent.\r\n\r\nHere's a question: did MyFonts
    actually go out of their way to license/pay for a topless photo for this particular
    font?\r\n\r\nEDIT: In my own ignorance, I failed to check if the Calypso was,
    in fact, a dance. It's not. So, to prevent further error, <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calypso_music\">Here's
    some info on the Trinidadian Afro-Caribbean music</a>."
  created: '2006-01-09 15:16:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: yes! thank you chris! you said it all more elequently than i could have. just
    to clarify, foundries submit their own images to myfonts.
  created: '2006-01-09 16:08:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My guess is that the image is from some stock photo outfit.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-09 16:18:59'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Paul, it's a shame that URW++ felt the need to do that.\r\n\r\nChrisL, or
    perhaps some stock photo half-of-an-outfit.\r\n\r\n::rimshot::"
  created: '2006-01-09 16:26:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vah-ruum-cheesh! :-) The top half maybe?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-09 16:31:41'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Calypso is not a dance form, it is a song form from Trinidad with a strong
    political background and its best-known practioners were mainly men. I don't know/can't
    find any information on the inspiration behind the font but it seems to me it
    could equally have been inspired by Jacques Cousteau's exploration boat.\r\n(halftone
    to avoid offence)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/calypsub.jpg]\r\nTim\r\n{edit:
    I know Calypso wasn't a submarine, but then Marsha Hunt wasn't a calypso singer}"
  created: '2006-01-09 16:56:08'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "We may not necessarily choose our fonts based on their names, but I venture
    that a lot of fonts are named specifically to evoke a quality a designer might
    be looking for, qualities reflected in the design of the font. Western fonts have
    names like Rodeo or Giddyup; there is a circus font named Circus; Trajan, herculaneum,
    and Pompeii evoke Roman letterforms; Papyrus (discussed to death in an earlier
    thread) to look like \"ancient\" calligraphy, etc etc etc. I think it's interesting
    that the font Calypso, on its own, doesn't really evoke any Harry Belafonte steel
    drum sorts of images - at least not for me.\r\n\r\nI should add as well that it
    was suggested, in a different thread, that Requiem (HTF) might be popular among
    religious publishers precisely because of its name.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/17052"
  created: '2006-01-09 17:18:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "The fact that this conversation has gone on as long as it has will probably
    assist in drawing a few people's attention toward the typeface and perhaps purchasing
    a license. At the end of the day, if you don't like what's on the tellie, change
    the channel. I've realized this to be more powerful than any sort of lobbying.
    Keep the ratings down and don't call attention to it.\r\n\r\nHowever, Calypso
    is kinda fun, the typeface I mean, and I do also think Antique Olive has its place
    as well."
  created: '2006-01-09 19:52:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Calypso is kinda fun, the typeface I mean, and I do also think Antique
    Olive has its place as well.\"\r\n\r\nYes Tiff, they do have their place, as long
    as it is not at my place. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-09 20:59:42'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "We all live in a Yellow Submarine, a Yellow Submarine, a Yellow Submarine\u2026"
  created: '2006-01-09 22:39:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Calypso was a pretty clever typeface, in terms of using shading to emulate
    a 3D effect. Just think how hard that would have been to implement in metal! Or
    did it first come out in phototype?\r\n\r\nOf course, Calypso can refer to a lot
    of things: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Calypso\r\n\r\nT"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maxim Zhukov
      picture: 110611
    body: 'Excoffon designed <a href="http://www.designertradingcards.com/roger-excoffon.htm"><em>for
      metal</em></a>. His Mistral is probably the best script design ever developed
      for manual composition. '
    created: '2006-01-10 01:57:55'
  created: '2006-01-10 01:45:14'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "seems to be changed for some reason. i didn't realize i had that much influcence!
    >^P\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/calypso/"
  created: '2006-01-13 14:16:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\n\r\nThe Moral of the Story: Don't mess with Paul, he will get you
    yanked in a New York minute :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: Now we can all hash over
    whether the silouette is ant better:-)"
  created: '2006-01-13 14:23:58'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Now we can all hash over whether the silouette is any better:-)\"</em>\r\n\r\neh,
    i don't think it is, but i'm done whining about this one. actually, i'm less offended
    by this image, but it's still just as tacky."
  created: '2006-01-13 14:33:16'
- author:
    name: .
  body: D'you think anyone got in trouble at MyFonts or URW+++++++?
  created: '2006-01-13 15:05:17'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "As Maxim mentioned, Roger Excoffon designed for metal.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/calypso_DonBlack.jpg]\r\n\r\nHere's
    a cut (albeit poor repro) off of <a href=\"http://www.donblack.ca/fonts/c.htm\"
    target=\"new\">Don Black Linecasting Service</a>. I recall the design as a youth
    and I also feel that the name Calypso was more a reference to the Greek nymph
    in mythology as he named other of his type designs Diana and Mistral.\r\n\r\nHis
    Mistral and Antique Olive were widely popular (and I've used them many times up
    until the late seventies)."
  created: '2006-01-14 02:48:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Paul, really. A silhouette?! What doesn't fit\r\nisn't the woman, it's the
    rest of the design!\r\n\r\nChris, Calypso is \"ho-hum\"?!\r\n\r\nRacial profiling:
    I say let's worry about it in airports and downtowns, not for selling things we
    like. Especially when -like Eric says- she's not being shown negatively at all,
    quite the contrary! And what about all that House promo stuff, eh? Nobody complains
    about that.\r\n\r\n> The Inuit have never been the major group ...\r\n\r\nInaccuracy
    and racism are not even remotely related.\r\n\r\nThe fight against racism is too
    often used as a\r\nruse to prevent criticism of the powers that be.\r\n\r\n> His
    Mistral is probably the best script design\r\n> ever developed for manual composition.\r\n\r\nIndeed.\r\nAnd
    it can still teach us a lot.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-20 18:19:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nI was being way too kind (actually snide) when I said Calypso was
    \"ho-hum\". Read further down where I said:\r\n\"For me personally, the ad sucks
    and the font sucks\u2014a match made in \u201C\u2014-\u201D (fill in the blank
    for location from New York or Montreal to Montego Bay).\r\n$19.95 buys this font,
    a Ginsu Knife, \u201Cthe Greatest hits\u201D of any second rate singer, or a \u201CClapper\u201D.
    Spend wisely.\"\r\n\r\nI also replied later:\r\n\"Yes Tiff, they do have their
    place, as long as it is not at my place.\"\r\nMy straight-from-the-shoulder opinion
    just for you Hrant is that Calypso is a piece of crap (and I don't care who designed
    it). The \"wow\" factor with the screen 3D thing is way over rated--kinda like
    putting a drop shadow swoosh around a logo today. It was no big deal to do for
    the technology then. Every newspaper had ads using that same technique in their
    bargain basement cheap junk section.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-20 18:56:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sure, in fact I'm not a big fan of it either (although I'm a huge fan of\r\nExcoffon).
    My objection was simply to your claim that it needed a saucy\r\nsilhouette because
    it was boring (which is what \"ho-hum\" means [to me]). \r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-20 20:11:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant, I was attempting to replicate the decision making of the folks who
    made the ad, not my own.  If it were my typeface, I would have just trashed it
    from day one.\r\nAnd as I mentioned previosly, I do like Mistral.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-20 20:41:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: hrant, you're coming late to this one. i'm afraid this thread is now unintelligible
    without the original image that was on myfonts, which is now floating around some
    soft porn site. >^P
  created: '2006-01-20 20:44:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\nThe original ad, before they pulled it do to Paul's efforts :-),
    was a sexy looking bare-breasted babe with her pants half down.\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-20 20:50:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, I'm late (I have been, on virtually everything, for almost\r\ntwo months
    now) and I confess to not having every word, but I\r\ndo still see this: http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/calypso/\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    as you were.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-20 20:50:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris, I had a... feeling.  ;-)\r\n\r\nThat's what I get for being late I
    guess.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I still think the rest of the site is more offensive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-20 20:54:10'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">The \u201Cwow\u201D factor with the screen 3D thing is way over rated\u2014kinda
    like putting a drop shadow swoosh around a logo today. It was no big deal to do
    for the technology then.\r\n\r\nApparently halftone technology wasn't used, it
    was <a href=\"http://www.itcfonts.com/Ulc/OtherArticles/Excoffon.htm\">drawn</a>
    by hand and airbrush. Not that that will change opinions, I admit to admiring
    it.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-01-20 21:08:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Apparently halftone technology wasn\u2019t used, it was drawn by hand\"\r\n\r\nI
    assumed that it was hand drawn.  Everything else was hand drawn then too, it was
    no big deal. I am an old geezer myself and have hand drawn things throughout most
    of my career. There is a big difference between being hand drawn and being good.
    Every designer had a drop-bow compass for drawing lots of small circles quickly.
    \ Those dot progressions would have been a piece of cake in those days.  Today,
    younger designers probably wouldn't know where to start because they have never
    seen it before.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-20 22:02:20'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I assumed you were referring to using photographic technology to create the
    halftone, which I guessed would be the way it was done, airbrush the grad and
    stick it under a repro camera, I'm sure you know the process as well as I.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-01-21 10:37:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"airbrush the grad and stick it under a repro camera,\"\r\n\r\nIt would
    have just been quicker to draw it or even quicker to use Zipatone sheets with
    enlarged halftone gradations (quite commonplace at the time).\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-22 00:02:45'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: what next? this? [img:sites/default/files/old-images/ffi.GIF]
  created: '2006-01-25 04:32:06'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: ":-D\r\n\r\nthat is super funny!"
  created: '2006-01-25 08:13:12'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: can't we just let this tread die? DIE! DIE! DIE! >^P
  created: '2006-01-25 08:21:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So violence is OK?!\r\nLike that porn actress once complained: you can show
    a breast\r\nbeing cut off with a knife, but you can't show it being sucked.\r\n\r\n(Paul,
    just messin' wid ya. ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-25 15:39:29'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Switched out a half-nude woman with the silhouette of a transvestite.
  created: '2006-01-25 18:42:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Read Paul his rights :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-25 18:56:36'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "Mike, that looks like awfully bad hinting!\r\n\r\n(Hi,  by the way.)"
  created: '2006-01-27 09:41:43'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "okay, so this one is slightly better:\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/joebob/dear-joe-1/\r\n\r\nbut
    the thing that offends me most here is that for $39 there isn't even a complete
    charset!"
  created: '2006-02-28 15:05:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess you are saying that \"Dear Joe\" is too dear? Or maybe that it is
    just out of character for an OT font :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-28 15:33:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't care what anybody says, chicks with guns is cool.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 17:35:41'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.myfonts.com/browse/foundry/joebob/\r\n\r\n<em>Bond, Hrant Bond</em>\r\n:)\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-02-28 17:43:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Huh, and I was sure the designer was 'Merican. They have a lot\r\nof wannabe
    cowboys in the Netherlands for some reason - maybe\r\na reaction to all the sense
    there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 18:29:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That is too big of a cup of Joe for me :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-28 19:06:48'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: ">Oh, can you find porn on the web easily? You bet.\r\n\r\n>exactly. i just
    was hoping myfonts wasn\u2019t gonna be one of those places.\r\n\r\n\r\nC\u2019mon
    guys! Do you really think the calypso ad is pornographic!\r\nI mean\u2026 is tacky,
    cheap, rubbish is you want\u2026 but from my point of view saying pornographic
    is a bit too much. \r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 23:18:46'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Cristina, the ad has been changed since i made those remarks, apparently the
    folks at myfonts agreed that the old ad was a bit much as well.
  created: '2006-02-28 23:24:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I suspect Cristina wouldn't have considered\r\nthe original one \"pornographic\"
    either.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 23:32:28'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Oh! Ok. That\u2019s hilarious!!! \r\nJust today I catch up with the conversation.\r\nThanks
    for letting me know.\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 23:32:45'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "hrant,\r\n\r\nReally. Why? Now I regret getting so late to the party!\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 23:35:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i'm not sure i would consider the original ad pornographic, just more titilating
    than was necessary.
  created: '2006-02-28 23:36:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Why?\r\n\r\nBecause you're not from Iowa or Afghanistan.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 23:42:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Sebastian, they changed the image (it confused me too).\r\n\r\n> biassed\r\n\r\nJust
    to clear up the ambiguity: do you have three buttcheeks or four?\r\nHrant (from
    all over, so I am annoying).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Pixion
    body: "Aah, thats why. \r\n\r\nNow I am getting very interrested in the original
      ad!\r\n\r\nRe. cheeks, not sure, lost track...\r\n\r\nSebastian"
    created: '2006-09-22 20:08:42'
  created: '2006-09-22 20:04:30'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "<cite>Der Spiegel Magazine for years has made me laugh with its proclivity
    for putting what I call \u201CBabe Glitz\u201D on the cover. Imagine if Time Magazine
    would do the same here in the States.</cite>\r\n\r\nAt least Der Spiegel contains
    a lot of news about events etc. from outside of Germany, while Time Magazine seems
    to hardly know there are other countries besides the good US of A\u2026 Could
    that have to do with a certain openmindedness that's more of a European thing?
    This thread makes me think so\u2026 "
  created: '2006-09-26 08:23:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bert,\r\nI don't think even the publishers of TIME would call it a world
    news magazine. I have not read it in years so I can't say if that is still the
    case. TIME is more concerned with their advertisers openmindedness than that of
    the general populace. The only way magazines have a prayer of making money is
    through their print ads. Der Spiegel covers are obviously just a newstand attention
    grabber and don't reflect the content of the magazine. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-26 13:21:01'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "http://www.flickr.com/photos/adactio/122923214/\r\n\r\nmore like porn"
  created: '2006-09-26 13:51:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t think even the publishers of TIME would call it a world news
    magazine.\r\n\r\nBecause it wouldn't sell in the US. After all, who wants to pay
    money\r\nto hear how most of the rest of the world increasingly dislikes them?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-26 15:47:55'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Thanks to Nick Sherman for bringing this thread to my attention.\r\n\r\nI
    have seen very early marketing materials for Calypso and I'm surprised nobody
    else mentioned the fact that a nude or semi-nude Caribbean female has always,
    for some unexplained reason, been used along with the type specimen. I'm not sure
    if Calypso music shares some historical affinity with nudity, so I don't know
    why that connection exists, but it does. It could just be an Excoffon thing, though;
    an early Mistral type specimen also uses photographic breasts as a marketing device.
    I'm not sure how much input the designer had as to those specimens, though...\r\n\r\nCalypso
    was first released in 1958 and the specimens I saw were produced in the very early
    1960s. At that point, from what I understand - I was not yet on the scene - urban
    French culture was especially enamored of West Indian culture and women from the
    French colonies in that area were in high demand as fashion models in France and
    elsewhere in Europe.\r\n\r\nFinally, anyone who believes a photograph of a nude
    woman's torso is pornographic is not only reactionary but ridiculous (and, apparently,
    has never actually seen real pornography). Invest in a dictionary.\r\n\r\nJoshua\r\n\r\n---\r\n\r\njlt
    : http://www.hewnandhammered.com"
  created: '2008-11-13 18:39:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019m not sure how much input the designer\r\n> had as to those specimens,
    though...\r\n\r\nExcoffon? It was probably his idea! Apparently he used to go
    to the ATypI\r\nconferences with a different hot babe hanging off his shoulder
    every time.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-13 19:08:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Invest in a dictionary.\r\n\r\nJoshua, a bare breasted beautiful young woman
    in a sexually provocative pose fits the definition of soft porn, which is what
    I said the image is. See the [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Soft_porn|definition
    of soft porn in the Wikipedia]], which the picture fits very well. You can hold
    that there's no problem with soft porn or you can say it's not appropriate for
    this advertisment, but the fact is that picture does fit the definition. "
  created: '2008-11-14 04:02:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No William, you're reading what you want into the Wikipedia article.\r\nSoft
    porn is necessarily erotic, while a topless person isn't.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-14 05:08:31'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "omg, it's still alive!!! so happy this came up again. I can always use a
    good larf.\r\n\r\n<em>Soft porn is necessarily erotic, while a topless person
    isn\u2019t.</em>\r\n\r\nyes, but this was no National Geographic piece."
  created: '2008-11-14 09:25:48'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "and the original artwork is back! (although it's now profonts marketing the
    typeface? wtf???) so it all makes sense again, whew! but i did want to check out
    the silhouette of the transvestite just for more laughs.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/profonts/calypso/\r\n"
  created: '2008-11-14 09:30:07'
- author:
    name: innovati
    picture: 114494
  body: "I had a question about the racism comment above.\r\n\r\nWhy would it be a
    racist image just because she's black.\r\n\r\nUsing the same logic, if she were
    white, wouldn't it also be racist just because she were white?\r\n\r\nThe only
    thing I see in that image is a girl with no shirt.  I don't want to unsettle the
    whole art vs. porn thing, but I don't see any sex act taking place, it's simply
    nudity, not pornography.\r\n\r\nOne might argue the appropriateness of an image
    like that on a site free for children to browse, but I think here in North America
    we have hidden and covered ourselves so long that now we have weird fetishes like
    topless women.  I don't see how that simple image *should* evoke such a response
    or controversy.\r\n\r\nI say, the artist thought the image was beautiful, and
    also thought it evoked a feeling complimentary to the typeface.  The ultimate
    goal of the typeface is to sell it.  The artist is also appealing to North American
    audiences, as well as global.  The artist chose an image that got people talking
    about it, got awareness raised and ultimately, got an ancient font fresh in the
    minds of people.\r\n\r\nDebate whether it should be there or not, but I haven't
    seen anybody else point out any other Font previews recently.  The artist did
    their job well in this case I'd say."
  created: '2008-11-14 15:09:24'
date: '2006-01-07 16:00:52'
node_type: forum
title: what th???!!! {PG-13}

---
