---
author:
  name: noftus
  picture: 111246
body: "Hi, I am writing a guide for high-school students on how to select fonts for
  writing yearbook publications.\r\n\r\nWhile I'm pretty sure I have the basics downpat,
  I'd like to make sure it is as 'correct' as possible.\r\n\r\nSuggestions for improvements
  are appreciated. Thanks for your time.\r\n\r\n=====\r\nThere are no absolutely right
  or wrong ways to choose which fonts to use for your yearbook. Font selection is
  a very subjective matter, but there are however a few accepted guidelines which
  can help you make the right choices.\r\n\r\n<strong>Body Text</strong>\r\nSerif
  fonts are ideal for body text as the serifs aid readability by helping the eye move
  from one letter to the next, connecting individual shapes to form whole words. Certain
  sans-serif fonts are also suited to body text as they are also \u2018word\u2019
  friendly.\r\n\r\nA good body text font is not difficult or tiring to read for long
  sentences and paragraphs. It should blend with the yearbook theme, not distract
  the reader, and convey an appropriate tone.\r\n\r\n<strong>Headings</strong>\r\nSans-serif
  fonts are often used for headings as they often convey more personality than old-style
  serif fonts. Script and novelty based fonts are also ideal for short headings where
  ornamental features can be appreciated sparingly. Over-using a novelty font can
  backfire and it tends to look quite tacky.\r\n\r\n<strong>Point size</strong>\r\nBody
  text should be set between 9 to 12 points. This is the optimum size to aid readability.
  Bigger text sizes tend to make it harder to read as the eye gets tired from travelling
  further distances to read the same amount of text. Heading text sizes should be
  proportionate to the accompanying body text.\r\n\r\n<strong>Capitalisation Patterns</strong>\r\nALL
  CAPS can look very serious and dramatically reduces readability. The major headings
  in this boook are in all-caps, but have been italicised the speed and modernise
  the flow.\r\n\r\n<strong>Common fonts</strong>\r\nIf you are looking to make your
  yearbook stand out, it is recommended you avoid using the common fonts found on
  most computers such as Times New Roman and Arial. These fonts are familiar to many
  people and can introduce the \u2018same old\u2019 syndrome. It is worth the time
  to search and download new fonts from the Internet.\r\n\r\n=====\r\n(The text in
  the above guide is written in Expressway 10pt)\r\n(http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typodermic/expressway/)"
comments:
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I might also add that more than about 35 characters per line can get hard
    to read, and also suggest at least 2-3 points of leading for body copy. Italics
    are hard to read for long passages too.\r\n\r\nAnd there is nothing wrong with
    using serif fonts for headlines."
  created: '2006-01-07 15:58:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Another thing to warn against is putting text on top of pictures; if designers
    really feel they must do it, they should choose bold fonts without "hairline"
    details.
  created: '2006-01-07 18:27:35'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>Sans-serif fonts are often used for headings as they often convey more
    personality than old-style serif fonts.</cite>\r\n\r\nI would have leaned towards
    the exact opposite as far as conveying personality (there are a lot of oldstyle
    serif typefaces with tons of personality). But really, \"conveying personality\"
    is more dependent on the font rather than its category. That is, Arial (sans)
    and Times (serif) are both pretty bland, but Syntax (sans) and Warnock (serif)
    both have considerable personality.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-07 21:06:46'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: You should add a note about sticking to maybe a two typeface combo...or three
    at the most for the entire book. Develop a system so it all works together and
    doesn't have a random feel to it.
  created: '2006-01-08 01:53:29'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: Encouraging the use of fonts dowloaded from the internet might lead to the
    sort of zany typography you are discouraging. You warn about novelty fonts in
    the Headings paragraph, but most of what high school students are likely to find
    online will be just that.
  created: '2006-01-08 02:34:39'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Patty, roughly about 60 to 66 characters per line is considered the ideal
    line lenght. I think it was a type mistake wasn't it?\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-01-08 22:15:17'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Expressway is based on Ray Larabie's first road signage font, Blue Highway.
    Expressway is very tightly fitted and as such not well-suited to text, but you
    can remedy that by applying a bit of letter spacing, say around .2pt to .6pt should
    give more readable results and be nicer to \"look\" at (as distinct from reading).\r\n\r\n<em>...what
    high school students are likely to find online...</em>\r\nwhat high school students
    are likely to find online <strong>for free</strong>.\r\n\r\n<em>...connecting
    individual shapes to form whole words...</em>\r\nconnecting individual letters
    to form positive word pictures (bouma)\r\n\r\n<em>It should blend with the yearbook
    theme, not distract the reader, and convey an appropriate tone.</em>\r\nIt should
    blend with the yearbook theme, conveying an appropriate tone and not distract
    the reader.\r\n\r\n<em>ALL CAPS can look very serious and dramatically reduces
    readability</em>\r\nALL CAPS can look too formal and dramatically <strong>reduce</strong>
    readability\r\n\r\n<em>The major headings in this boook are in all-caps, but have
    been italicised the speed and modernise the flow.</em>\r\nThat may be a perceived
    quality, one you are projecting or assigning to italic typography rather than
    an inherent effect. I'm not sure that italicization speeds up reading (if that's
    what you mean). \"Modernise the flow\" is ambiguous. Readers may not follow what
    you mean there. Instead of italicized all-caps consider regular smallcaps; smallcaps
    tend to be a bit more readable and user-friendly than all-caps.\r\n\r\nOther sans
    serif candidates: Formata, Frutiger, Myriad (see Frutiger), Brown Gothic, Vera
    Sans, Officina, Gill Sans, Humanist 531.\r\n\r\nA great alternative to neutral
    sans serifs for body matter is Bitstream's Chianti. Very readable. Also consider
    Formata for body text. Syntax is hard to beat tho, embodying all the good humanist
    traits of the classic book romans in a sans.\r\n\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-01-10 05:20:53'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "<em>Serif fonts are ideal for body text as the serifs aid readability by
    helping the eye move from one letter to the next,</em>\r\n\r\nIs this a measured
    fact or just what we've always assumed?\r\n\r\n<em>Sans-serif fonts are often
    used for headings as they often convey more personality than old-style serif fonts.
    </em>\r\n\r\nWhether or not a face has serifs or not is independant from its ability
    to convey more or less personality.\r\n\r\n<em>It is worth the time to search
    and download new fonts from the Internet.</em>\r\n\r\nI'd maybe add search, PURCHASE,
    and download... ;o)\r\n\r\nAnd then maybe list out a small list of quality free
    fonts if that's their only option.\r\n\r\nAlso, I'd talk about other (more?) important
    aspects...column widths, leading, white space, etc."
  created: '2006-01-10 20:48:51'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I would not say that serif fonts are more readable but that they are more
    comfortable to read in long texts.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-01-11 02:25:49'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "H\xE9ctor, you may be making a semantic argument there. Are \"comfortable
    to read\" and \"readability\" the same thing, or just different ways of defining
    readability? Ease or comfort of reading is integral to readability in the sense
    that fonts that are \"comfortable to read\" are inherently more readable.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not making a 1 = 1 argument, but I think your view is semantic to some extent,
    rather than describing a practical difference. So I suppose the next question
    to ask is whether \"comfortable to read\" can be equated with \"readability\".\r\n\r\n<em>Is
    this a measured fact or just what we\u2019ve always assumed?</em>\r\n\r\nThe idea
    of serifs \"aiding readability by helping the eye move from one letter to the
    next\" is an innacurate description how people read. In reality we read words,
    not letters. We read by cognitive recognition of individual word shapes. The eye
    does not move from one letter to the next; it takes in word shapes whole and the
    brain recognizes those shapes with its very sophisticated and specialized shape
    recognition faculty. \r\n\r\nIt is a measured fact from studies by Jarval that
    seriffed fonts are more readable than sans serifs. Roman type has been proven
    faster to read, causing fewer backwards saccades (reversions in which the eye
    jumps back to re-read portions of text, caused by either an ambiguous word shape
    or an unfamiliar one. Unfamiliar word forms are deciphered letter-by-letter).
    Hrant Papazian documented the whole phenomenon of how we read in his essay <em>Improving
    the Tool</em>.\r\n\r\nThe scientific analysis of readability and how we read needs
    to be balanced against the role of cognitive perception in reading. This was discussed
    a bit on this thread:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/9736\r\n\r\n\r\nBy the way,
    we're drifting off topic with this discussion of readability :^) I don't mind
    tho if you guys want to continue. The discussion of the font guide has run its
    course.\r\n\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-01-11 07:16:52'
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: "Wow thanks for all this everyone - i'm more than satisfied, and have taken
    it all onboard and implemented appropriate changes.\r\n\r\nThis typophile forum
    is truly amazing."
  created: '2006-01-11 07:51:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...they are more comfortable to read in long texts.\r\n...seriffed fonts
    are more readable than sans serifs.</em>\r\n\r\nReal typographers don't generalize,
    they specify.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-11 07:57:10'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Mention that alignment can also aid/hinder.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-01-11 11:57:17'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Nick, is \"more\" the ambiguous word? I don't know of any percentage figures
    for serifs v.s sans.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-01-11 14:40:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "James, statistical comparison of sans with serif is meaningless.\r\nIt's
    like saying men are stronger than women.\r\nEverybody knows they are, but there
    are always subsets of either group which reverse the distinction.\r\n\r\nBean
    counting is one way of thinking, design is another. \r\nIn fact, design is more
    a way of doing.\r\nAs design is both practice and theory, proponents of each aspect
    are always laying greater claim to control. Well, more usually it's the boffins
    who don't actually do it who are trying to wrest control from the human hand,
    and systematize and automate the process into a chore suitable for drones and
    bots.\r\n\r\nWith this philosophy, we can look forward to a brave new world in
    which every consumer has their optimum typographic setting, based on their demographic
    classification. Bit recursive, eh?\r\n\r\nNathan is right to call his project
    a Guide, not Rules.\r\nBut rather than design from learned principle, it is better
    to learn from practice.\r\nThe best way for a neophyte to get it right is by copying
    exemplary models.\r\nif you try to duplicate the word-count and general appearance
    of a piece of setting that you admire, using a similar (or even the same) font,
    you will get a much better understanding of the way that typographic parameters
    work, and interact, than piecing things together from guidelines. You will develop
    a feeling for type.\r\n\r\nTypographic design is better a process of induction,
    not deduction.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-11 15:35:58'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "James:\r\n\r\nThanks for that post. Do you have more info on that specific
    study?\r\n\r\nI've also read that reseach has shown that 'people read best what
    they're most familiar with' and that the serif = easier to read may simply have
    to do with that's what most people read (paperbacks, newspapers, etc.) Either
    way, it's a valid result, even if perhaps self-fulfilling prophecy. \r\n\r\n(also,
    great post, Nick.)"
  created: '2006-01-11 16:30:59'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Nick, I wasn't sure if you meant we were generalizing or specializing; I
    get the drift of what you said (at first) now. Thanks for expanding.\r\n\r\n<em>statistical
    comparison of sans with serif is meaningless</em>\r\n\r\nYep, like apples and
    oranges, or pot versus kettle. I'm skeptical of statistics from having used them
    in ads to manipulate markets and consumers. Statistics are often made up by people
    determined to prove what they believe to be reality by throwing a blanket over
    everything. Qualitative analysis carries relevance and import from the perception
    of readers. Perception and reader experience is what counts. Testing and stats
    describe what was tested, and sometimes tell us more about the experiment itself.
    <em>The act of observing</em> always biases the result.\r\n\r\n<em>Bean counting
    is one way of thinking, design is another.\r\nIn fact, design is more a way of
    doing.</em>\r\n\r\nAre you familiar with Edward De Bono's <em>Thinking for the
    New Millenium</em>? The key phrase he drummed up for that book is:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"Design
    a way forward\"</strong>\r\n\r\nThe book argues that empirical, rational judgement
    systems that served us in past centuries are outmoded because of the rapid rate
    of change we live with now, and to survive and compete in our Crave New World
    we have to shed the judgement-based rationale in deference to \"designing a way
    forward\". Solutions to problems that worked yesterday might not work tomorrow,
    so we need to be a lot more flexible in how we solve problems, designing as we
    go instead of relying on legacy methods. He doesn't specifically say that the
    proliferation computers is responsible for the rapid rate of change, but it isn't
    hard to see that parallel of cause and effect.\r\n\r\nWriters and designers have
    been designing answers to problems all this time; to us it comes naturally. When
    I write, I design by arranging words to impose structure. Structure and design
    makes writing comprehensible.\r\n\r\nI decided a while ago that the fonts we design
    in years to come may need to incorporate flexibility as an operating principal
    to allow a font's features and components to adapt to subject matter whose rules
    for grammar, orthography etc, might be different from the time the font was designed.
    In short, fonts and alphabets might need to respond to changes imposed by the
    cultural environment. Fonts might have to adapt and reconfigure themselves in
    response.\r\n\r\nIts a pretty abstract concept and hard to describe. I hope you
    can grasp what I'm driving at.\r\n\r\n<em>Bit recursive, eh?</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    a backwards-looking model that resembles socialism and is really oppressive. Modernism
    gone mad. No thanks.\r\n\r\n<em>Typographic design is better a process of induction,
    not deduction.</em>\r\n\r\nIt is <em>neccessary</em> to absorb from successful
    models...and it helps to be flexible; adopt, and be prepared to adapt.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2006-01-11 17:01:47'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Darrel, research by Jarval and others is referenced in Hrant's <em>Improving
    the Tool</em> essay, published in Gunnar Swanson's book <a href=\"http://www.gunnarswanson.com/GDandR/GDandR_Book.html\">Graphic
    Design &amp; Reading</a>. Great reading if you're serious about graphic design
    and communication or type design, or both.\r\n\r\nYou could ask Hrant nicely about
    getting hold of just his <em>Tool</em> essay. Touch wood.\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019ve
    also read that reseach has shown that \u2018people read best what they\u2019re
    most familiar with</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know that that was from research. I think
    you mean Zuzana Licko's statement \"We read most what we read best\". By that
    she meant that alphabets and fonts are only readable or comprehensible at all
    because we're familiar with the letter forms. Russians who only read stuff written
    in the Cyrillic script read Cyrillic best because that's all they've ever read,
    and since they're not familiar with the Latin alphabet they hardly ever read text
    set in Latin---because they can't. Their brain's shape cognition cortex is axon-modelled
    to recognize Cyrillic forms.\r\n\r\n<em>...easier to read may simply have to do
    with that\u2019s what most people read (paperbacks, newspapers, etc.)</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    recognize best what you already know. But that's a perception that can change,
    and reader experience points to certain typefaces being easier to read than others---provided
    the reader is acclimatized to them.\r\n\r\n<em>...also, great post, Nick.</em>\r\n\r\nNick
    is the fount of articulation, the voice of experience.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-01-11 18:57:25'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Nathan (noftus), I think it\u2019s great that you are trying to give students
    suggestions and guidelines for the design and production of their yearbook. \r\n\r\nThis
    is especially a fine opportunity to instill basics of design and typography even
    if they are not art students, since inevitably they will find themselves in front
    of a PC or Mac creating a presentation of one kind or another in the future.\r\n\r\nFor
    the most part, virtually every student today is familiar with computers, and many
    of them have probably selected typefaces for heads and body text via menu options
    for their school, community and personal projects.\r\n\r\nSchool yearbook publishers
    already provide some great tips and FAQs for students who are involved with designing
    and producing their school yearbook. I feel there is no need to replicate what
    is readily available to students online.\r\n\r\nI do agree with you strongly about
    giving them direction as teacher/advisor to student as you are intending to do,
    because most anyone at anytime can search for info on the Internet, but as a teacher,
    only you can see if they understand.\r\n\r\nAlso, when you are satisfied with
    your yearbook guide, it would be great if you could post it as a topic in the
    <a href=\"http://typophile.com/forum/16\" target=\"new\">Typographic Education</a>
    area of Typophile for other teachers and students to review.\r\n\r\n<strong><em>Visit
    these sites with your students</em>:</strong>\r\n\r\n<a href=http://www.taylorpub.com/Education/typeandgraphics.aspx
    target=\u201Dnew\u201D><strong>Type & Graphics FAQ\r\nTaylor Publishing</strong></a>\r\nGenerally
    helpful and contains a few of the tips that you intend to include in your Guide.
    Some of the terminology is geared for general public (not actual graphic arts
    or type terms used) but it\u2019s presented with high school students and yearbooks
    in mind. The FAQ even goes into drop caps and specialty typefaces. Slightly dated
    since they only reference PostScript type fonts, but that\u2019s where you can
    update your students. \r\n\r\n<a href=http://www.jostens.com/yearbook/adobe_contest_winners.asp
    target=\u201Dnew\u201D><strong>2005 InDesign Design Contest winners</strong></a>\r\nLetting
    students know that taking time to do a job well doesn\u2019t always hit the mark.
    Letting them see what their contemporaries produced in the previous year might
    help to set a higher visual standard for their own yearbook. Josten, Inc., runs
    an annual contest (with prizes) recognizing 15 middle school and high school students
    for their creativity.\r\n\r\nIn addition to the advice you have received by others
    on Typophile, here are a few suggestions:\r\n\r\n<strong>Font vs. Typeface</strong>\r\nThis
    is a personal pet peeve of mine, as I hate to see the word <em>typeface</em> disappear
    completely as a term.\r\n<ul><strong>Typefaces</strong> are designed visually.
    They are selected, set and positioned on a page for visual balance and impact;
    typefaces are used to organize, display and augment the textual content.\r\n\r\n<strong>Fonts</strong>
    are required in order to access the typefaces with a particular complement of
    characters or glyphs. Fonts are acquired, loaded and selected for use within particular
    devices (PC, Mac, mechanical or digital sign plotters, video games, cell phones,
    etc.).</ul> \r\n\r\nIf we don\u2019t preserve these distinctions, communications
    such as this can sound a little ridiculous:\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019d like to use Adobe
    Garamond for text, but there are no old style numerals. Should I select another
    typeface or should I load another font?</em>\r\n\r\nSo far, for personal computers,
    not ALL fonts contain EVERY available character designed for a given typefaces.
    A single typeface can also be available in numerous font formats (OpenType, TrueType,
    PostScript, etc.) and purchasing a single font does not automatically give you
    license to use any characters, weights, styles, font format, for loading on any
    device not explicitly contained on that font and as stipulated by the EULA (End
    User License Agreement). \r\nYes, I know this is very complex, and it may not
    be an actual entry used in your guide, but unless we (educators, design professionals,
    and the type industry) try to educate ALL type font users about this, the type
    industry may no longer exist as we know it.\r\n\r\n<strong>Ragged right vs Justified
    columns</strong>\r\nYou\u2019ll find this topic hotly debated. Let it be sufficient
    to advise students that if they decide to use flush left and right justified columns,
    they should be aware of word spacing inconsistencies, that line spacing/leading
    becomes more critical, that there will be line width and hyphenation issues, etc.\r\n\r\n<strong>Serif
    vs Sans Serif</strong>\r\nPersonally, I feel that this is less of an issue since
    most yearbooks do not have extensive amounts of text matter. They are more like
    periodicals, and more like <em>People</em> magazine than <em>The New England Journal
    of Medicine</em>. Text within individual sections of a yearbook tend to run only
    a few spreads with lots of graphics or photos. In that light, sections can be
    treated with some uniqueness, like some magazines, and use of sans or serifs becomes
    less ominous a decision\u2026 just so long as students understand type guidelines
    are not universal, but apply more to specific usage and context. Magazines, novels,
    yearbooks, advertising, etc. are all very different applications.\r\n\r\nThere
    are some interesting examples of yearbook spreads in the <a href=\u201Dhttp://www.jostens.com/yearbook/adobe_contest_winners.asp\u201D
    target=\u201Dnew\u201D>Jostens Contest winners</a>.\r\n\r\n<strong>Text vs Display
    and Specialty/Novelty Typefaces</strong>\r\nRemembering that your students may
    not be graphic design majors (if so\u2026 then they shouldn\u2019t graduate if
    the don\u2019t know what to do), but including some of the suggestions offered
    by Forum members would be very useful. To simplify understanding for non-visually
    oriented students, it might be sufficient to explain key differences between reading
    multiple lines of text, captions and running copy than reading a few words contained
    in headlines and titles. Specialty and novelty typefaces are not to be completely
    avoided, but they are very much like hot chili sauce, sugar or vinegar. Used very
    sparingly they can spice up, sweeten or add a little tang to layouts, and a little
    too much use can be very unappetizing.\r\n\r\n<strong>My Personal Reflections
    on Yearbooks</strong>\r\nI went to a \u201Cbrainy\u201D all boys high school,
    where we tried to be professional and very \u201Cgrown up\u201D. I just browsed
    through my own high school\u2019s yearbook and I must say it looks very dull,
    overly academic, too symmetrical, non-dynamic, uninviting to read and the team
    sports sections were treated identically as the faculty and academic studies sections.
    Sad, but maybe that was actually a reflection of the student body\u2026 dull and
    too academic.\r\n\r\nI compared it to my wife\u2019s high school yearbook (she
    went to a co-ed Catholic school). The layouts are terrible, use of type inconsistent
    and visually painful to typophiles, but somehow their energy, fun and idealism
    shows through. Still an ugly publication, but enjoyable to flip through.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m
    not advocating visual pollution, but a yearbook should be a reflection of who
    the students are and not who they want to be. Because years (and decades) later,
    when you sit down to reminisce the second half of your teenage years, the yearbook
    will be your touchstone. It will be the only high school yearbook a graduating
    class will ever have. Encourage them to make it an intimate and personal document
    of their collective experiences. In the end, that will be far more significant
    than what typeface they used for heads.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-12 01:48:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good stuff - and a commendable effort.\r\n\r\nYou should add something about
    vertical proportions: for text,\r\nthe bigger the x-height the better the font
    is for small text;\r\nand a too-big x-height impedes readability at average sizes.\r\n\r\nAlso:
    italics actually has lower readability.\r\n\r\n> Real typographers don\u2019t
    generalize, they specify.\r\n\r\n<cite>Humans</cite> generalize.\r\n\r\n> Everybody
    knows they are\r\n\r\nNot even close.\r\n\r\nIgnore theory = rehash precedent
    AND/OR navel-gaze.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-17 20:01:38'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'Perhaps it might be worth while listing the fonts of those bundled with Windows,
    Word or Mac OS that are best for text: Palatino Linotype and Monotype Garamond,
    for instance.'
  created: '2006-01-17 20:32:55'
- author:
    name: kristin
    picture: 110305
  body: "Is this the place where us old farts can reminisce about typing yearbook
    copy on a standard monospace typewriter and adding spaces between words and/or
    letters to achieve justified columns?\r\n\r\nI would suggest that you add something
    about how distracting it is to use too many different typefaces on a page. David
    mentioned using two or three faces, but I think your message should be stronger.
    Using 20 or more typefaces on a page is one of the most common mistakes made by
    novice typesetters. \r\n\r\nDoes anyone still have a link to the NYC menu that
    \"empties the type drawer\"? It's a great example of what not to do.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-17 21:19:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'd be very surprised if that menu beats this:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/typorgy.jpg\r\n\r\nIt's
    so \"good\" that Caroline Archer used it\r\nduring the recent thing she did for
    the BBC.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-17 21:55:08'
- author:
    name: j_polo9
  body: "Woot, what a great thread. Noftus any chance you want to make a pdf doc summarizing
    all this that I can give to my sisters' school? In fact their is some highschool
    yearbook conference in Frisco that I think is annual. If this gets made I could
    email them and hopefully spread the wealth! \r\n\r\nIf you don't have time I might
    be able to do it. I mean I could get it done, but my expertise is limited to what
    I've read here so I would like to leave it to greater minds to create it."
  created: '2006-06-19 19:37:31'
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: "Here's the guide that I ended up writing:\r\nhttp://rockstarmemoirs.com/year12/stylebook/eStylebook2006.pdf\r\n\r\nThe
    font guide is on page 57.\r\n\r\nIt's specific to Australian Year 12 grade yearbooks,
    which are different to US school ones.\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Yearbook#Australia\r\n\r\n\r\nAs
    a side note, since this post I've gone to run workshops at several high schools,
    and always talk about fonts. Many aware 13 year old kids quite surprisingly, actually
    do recognise that Arial and Times New Roman \"suck\", are too common, and cry
    out for alternatives. It's amazingly pleasing.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-20 03:08:37'
date: '2006-01-07 11:23:22'
title: please critique my font guide

---
