---
author:
  name: Sebastian Nagel
  picture: 109594
body: "Dear forum members,\r\n\r\nbesides <a href=http://typophile.com/node/15535>Terra
  Nova</a>, I have started another Typeface out of an urge to do \"something different\".\r\n\r\nAfter
  doing some pencil-drawings of some letters, I started working on \"Sofa \u2013 a
  cosy typeface\". It is kind of a humanist egyptienne with no (or almost no) sharp
  edges, slightly curved outlines, and flowing, handwritten flavour in the basic shapes.\r\n\r\nSofa
  won't be a \"monster\" like Terra Nova, I don't plan to do that much opentype-scripting,
  alternate forms, ligatures etc. as I've done so far there. At the moment, there
  is a basic character set with Upper- and Lowercase, numerals and some punctuation.
  Also, some basic spacing is done to test the font in text-sizes.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sofa_40_logo_4797.png]\r\n\r\n
  \r\n\r\nDo you have any suggestions or objections on the general concept, or (if
  you like it) on single glyphs?\r\n\r\nThanks a lot for your feedback and your help,
  I hope I can give some knowhow back later (after a lot more years of learning...)\r\n\r\nSebastian\r\n\r\n\r\n<strong>More
  members of this family</strong>\r\n<a href=http://typophile.com/node/18463>Sofa
  italic</a>\r\n<a href=http://typophile.com/node/18464>Sofa sans</a>"
comments:
- author:
    name: a2z
  body: quite nice. the 'y' and 'f' specifically seem like they could use some kind
    of terminal.
  created: '2006-01-08 19:28:15'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Thanks.\r\n\r\nYou are right, they need a terminal too."
  created: '2006-01-10 14:00:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I wonder why nobody's reacted to this - it's quite nice I think.\r\n\r\nFirst
    of all: those white overlaps are distracting.\r\nPlease make a normal version.\r\n\r\nI'd
    pull in the descenders.\r\n\r\nJust the lc for now:\r\n\"b\": Really really nice.\r\n\"f\":
    Extend the right side of the foot serif.\r\n\"g\": Quite nice. The head-bottom
    gap could be wider, and the ear longer.\r\n\"k\": Bring the lower leg forward
    (partly to relieve the weight in the join).\r\n\"r\": Same as \"f\".\r\n\"s\":
    Slightly dark.\r\n\"t\": Extend rightward.\r\n\"u\": Make top serifs leftward
    only. When you do, make the whole narrower.\r\neszet: Clotting at the bottom.\r\nlong-s:
    Same as \"f\".\r\n\r\nOne last thing: Underware's Sauna (I think) was\r\ninitially
    called Sofa - and I remember they had\r\nto change the name for legal reasons.
    You might\r\nhave to do the same maybe. Just don't change it\r\nto Sauna though.
    \ ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-16 17:15:24'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "sebilar, to merge paths:\r\nselect all the characters you want your change
    to effect\r\ngo to contour>transform>merge countours\r\n\r\ni suggest before doing
    this you put a copy of your characters in the mask layer. you can do this by going
    to\r\nTools>Mask>Copy outline to mask\r\n\r\nthere are also keyboard shortcuts
    for these actions that are quite helpful. these will show up to the right of the
    command in the drop down menus.\r\n\r\ni hope this helps!\r\n\r\nbtw, very nice
    work! it looks lovely."
  created: '2006-01-16 17:37:45'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Thanks a lot for your help and your nice words, hrant and paul.\r\n\r\nThere
    is a new version attached, with some changes made from your feedback. I think
    I can also revise some of the uppercase with hrant's comments. Partially, this
    is already done as well (F, P \u2013 but not too consistent yet).\r\nIn the meantime,
    I also have done some more glyphs and diacritics, which are included in v08 as
    well.\r\n\r\nToday I did the first printout on a 600dpi laser-printer (bad quality,
    but best I can get at the moment...), and the results in small text-sizes are
    surprisingly well already. The spacing is still done with indd cs2 optical spacing,
    but if I can get this done with metrics, I would be quite content already.\r\n\r\nI
    also did merge the paths in this version (thanks for that \u2013 Terra Nova would
    have been much more easy knowing that... but I learn :).\r\nThe only things still
    overlapping are about 10 composited glyphs like oslash, were I can't merge without
    decompose them.\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat do you think is the best method to go on? Get
    near perfection with the basic glyphs first, or start things like smallcaps or
    lowercase figures already?\r\n\r\nAnd maybe I should do three-quarter figures
    instead of lowercase and lining figures in this face... I don't know yet.\r\n\r\n\r\nOn
    the naming: Maybe I will call it ... Sauna ... for changing it again because of
    legal issues ;-)  Thanks for the tip, I did not know that.\r\n\r\nsebilar"
  created: '2006-01-18 01:12:09'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "now i can see to critique!\r\na few things:\r\nB seems a tad wide\r\nC looks
    like it had a bit of an overbite (as does the G)\r\nF seems too wide\r\nJ tail
    looks too heavy\r\nK top bar is too long, bottom bar too stiff\r\nL a bit wide\r\nM
    looks a bit wonky over all would look better if the midpoint came to the baseline\r\nP
    the bowl could be a bit larger\r\nQ the tail could be stronger\r\nR the bowl could
    be larger and the leg is too stiff\r\n\r\nb could do without the tail\r\ng the
    join could be smoother\r\nj tail seems too heavy\r\nk the arms are too angular\r\nq
    could use a quiter ear\r\nr i'll let hrant address\r\ny the tail feels out of
    joint\r\nfi and fl ligs seem too wide\r\n\r\n2 looks like it's leaning right\r\n4
    could do without the serif on the horizontal\r\n5 has an underbite\r\n7 too wide/leaning
    right\r\n\r\ncurrency symbols: i'd try to harmonize these. i would work towards
    forms that fit within the same character width, making Euro and yen narrower.\r\n\r\nI
    like the diacritics, the bar on the Lslash could extend further into the character\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-18 02:17:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"a\": Bottom-left curve malformed.\r\n\"r\": Beak too long.\r\n\"y\": Terminal
    awkward.\r\n\"D\": Stem seems too much thinner compared to curve.\r\n\"K\": Slightly
    dark.\r\n\"L\": Too wide.\r\n\"M\": Too narrow.\r\n\"Q\": Could work! But give
    the tail a better finish.\r\n\"T\": Too wide.\r\n\"U\": Too narrow.\r\n\"Y\":
    Head slightly too small.\r\nThorn: Too small.\r\n\r\nEnd-of-time, sorry.\r\n\r\nNumerals:
    I'm thinking lining nums might work best here. And since your caps are pretty
    short, I would align them to the caps. Alternate figures if provided might then
    be hybrids.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-19 07:40:17'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Thanks for your detailed feedback, and thanks for putting this on the startpage,
    I'm feeling honoured :)\r\n\r\nThere is a new version V10 attached, with detail
    correction based on your comments.\r\n\r\nuppercase:\r\n\r\n- narrower \"B\"\r\n-
    \"C\" and \"G\" overbite corrected\r\n- more even \"D\"\r\n- narrower \"F\"\r\n-
    Tail of \"J\" thinner\r\n- corrected \"K\" (not sure about that yet, as well as
    with the \"R\")\r\n- narrower \"L\"\r\n- down-to-bottom and wider \"M\"\r\n- bigger
    bowl of \"P\"\r\n- new tail on the \"Q\"\r\n- minor changes to \"S\"\r\n- narrower
    \"T\"\r\n- wider \"U\"\r\n- what do you think about the \"W\"? should it be analogous
    to \"M\"?\r\n- bigger head of \"Y\"\r\n- bigger \"Thorn\"\r\n\r\nlowercase:\r\n\r\n-
    \"a\": I did not quite understand what you meant that, hrant. Tried something...\r\n-
    alternate form for \"b\" without tail (not sure which to use, i like both of them)\r\n-
    what do you think about the alternate form of the \"e\"? It's the older one, and
    i like the new one with the \"edge\", but I'm not sure.\r\n- alternate form for
    the \"g\" (smoother loop, but not perfect yet).\r\n- thinner tail of \"j\"\r\n-
    small changes to \"k\"\r\n- alternate form for \"q\" (like with \"b\")\r\n- shorter
    right part of the \"r\" (not short enough yet?)\r\n- \"s\" lighter\r\n- \"y\":
    not sure what you meant, hrant and paul. Tried some things again...\r\n- \"sz\":
    still cluttered... don't know how to solve that yet.\r\n- \"thorn\": is it correct
    to have it the height of ascender?\r\n- fi- and fl-lig: In old versions i tried
    to keep the metrics of \"f\" and \"i\", and \"f\" and \"l\". Now they are narrower.\r\n\r\nfigures:\r\n\r\n-
    better \"2\"\r\n- no changes on \"4\" yet, but I think you ar right with the horzontal
    bar\r\n- \"5\" no underbite anymore, but maybe too much?\r\n- \"7\" more upwards
    now\r\n\r\nYou are right, hrant, I will provide hybrid-figures as alternates.\r\n\r\n\r\nothers:\r\n\r\n-
    \"asciitilde\" too small\r\n- no changes on currency symbols yet, but you are
    right paul, they should be equal width\r\n- \"Lslash\": longer bar\r\n\r\n\r\nThanks
    a lot for your feedback, without it, this would take much more time and trial
    and error. Towards most of the things you said, my reaction was \"This is quite
    obvious, why didn't I see this?\". typophile is great :)\r\n\r\nsebilar"
  created: '2006-01-19 20:00:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"M\": Still slightly narrow; armpits need declotting.\r\n\"W\": I think
    it's fine.\r\n\"g\": lowest curve too thick.\r\n\"y\": Just don't make it curl
    back so much.\r\neszet: First get rid of that serif stub - don't be afraid,\r\nthe
    Internal Consistency Gestapo are all huff&puff.\r\nAnd then you might possibly
    even get rid of that last\r\nterminal serif.\r\nthorn: The ascender/descender
    disproportion is buggin' ya, eh?  :-)\r\nWell, if you want to really push things,
    make not only its ascender\r\nshorter, but also those of some other letters...\r\n\r\nAlternates:\r\n\"b\"
    and \"q\": Good as alternates.\r\n\"e\": May be better than the original.\r\n\"g\":
    Too clotted in the join.\r\n\r\n> I did not quite understand what you meant\r\n\r\nThe
    curve seems wobbly at the bottom-leftmost.\r\n\r\n> not short enough yet?\r\n\r\nNope.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-19 20:21:10'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "So, V11 is attached now...\r\n\r\nMade the changes you proposed, hrant (M,
    g, y, eszet, a, r).\r\n\r\nthorn: No changes yet (don't like it, so i ignore it...).
    What would be other characters that need to be modified? Or would it be a general
    ascender-change?\r\n\r\nalternate g: No changes yet.\r\n\r\nEuro and yen: narrowed,
    but they are not unicase to Dollar but still wider.\r\n\r\nNew glyphs: More currencies,
    mu, logicalnot, greater/lesser, braces (not very good yet), paragraph sign, Et,
    at, percent (bad), superior figures (experimental, maybe too thin yet, as found
    out with percent fiasco...)\r\n\r\ngreetings from cold cold Austria\r\nSebilar"
  created: '2006-01-21 14:18:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not a general ascender change. I might make one or more of the \"b\", \"d\"
    or especially the \"el\" shorter. Maybe. But really, certainly not on account
    of the thorn looking funny! It's such a secondary character (unless you're Icelandic).
    I might do it simply to liven things up (not that this font is boring). In which
    case I'd make some of the descenders shorter too, like the \"p\" and \"q\" and
    maybe the \"j\".\r\n\r\nI'm only really looking at the alphabetics, but the florin,
    it's gotta lean.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-21 16:24:56'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "I will certainly try this and check the effect. What amount of change are
    you talking about? Ten 1000em-units? Fifty? One hundred? I know I have to check
    this \"live\", but it helps me to think in the right dimensions...\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    didn't have much time last week to work on, but now I've made a lot more characters
    in V17:\r\n\r\n<strong>complete default encoding and Latin Extended A-Diacritics</strong>\r\nI
    don't have a slight clue whether letter kra (greenlandic small k) is correct (see
    page 2, black line 3). Some special characters like (C) (R) etc. are not good
    yet.\r\n\r\n<strong>f-ligatures, longs-ligatures, and also some discretionary
    ones</strong>\r\nI think especially the discretionary are livening things up when
    used in display-sizes). I'm not sure about c_r- and g_i-ligs, and I don't know
    whether the style of the two alternative c_k-ligs and c_h-ligs (sharp entrance
    instead of round one) would be better.\r\n\r\n<strong>smallcaps</strong>\r\nwith
    some glitches yet, like too heavy Nsmall\r\n\r\n<strong>started opentype-coding</strong>\r\nligs,
    smallcaps\r\n\r\n\r\nNext step will be to clean up some things and to create better
    spacing and kerning (the pdf is still kerned with optical setting in Indesign).\r\nI'm
    also thinking about an italic and bold version, and maybe also about a sans serif
    one. But last one is far future yet...\r\n\r\nWhat do you think about the \"new\"
    name?\r\nThanks once more for every feedback, especially critical one.\r\n\r\nGreetings
    from Austria,\r\nSebilar"
  created: '2006-01-29 00:00:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> What amount of change are you talking about?\r\n\r\nNot sure. But at least
    enough to be noticeable by the layman.\r\n\r\nName: What about Chaise? Or Divan?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-04 19:05:40'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "So after weeks of absence (job, private issues) I can update this one (see
    PDF v24).\r\n\r\nThere are only details changed, the spacing is done, but must
    be tweaked in some details yet, kerning not yet. All you can see in the pdf is
    metric-setting in indesign, not optical, and spacing is not tweaked afterwards.\r\n\r\nOpentype-coding
    is complete now.\r\n\r\nI've used the font in some semi-professional works already
    to test it.\r\nI think it is rather final, but I will for sure give hrant's suggestion
    a try (ascender change for living up things more).\r\nI just wanted to give it
    a final touch, before diversify it again: Things start to become very confusing
    when working on multiple lines of developement.\r\n\r\nDo you see any \"no-way\"
    in this font? Otherwise I will try to make it final.\r\n\r\nAnd I'll have to do
    some more brainstorming about the name... I like Divan and Canap\xE9, I don't
    like Chaise, it sounds strange when used in german talking: Divan and Canap\xE9
    are known here as well, Chaise is not.\r\nI also like Ottoman. Sounds funny :)\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your feedback,\r\nsebilar"
  created: '2006-03-11 11:40:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So let me get this straight:\r\nNobody at all has anything whatsoever to
    say about\r\nthis face? Like not even the OS numerals, people?!\r\n\r\nIt seems
    what used to be the single best\r\nthing about Typophile has wilted away.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-15 00:41:09'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: ":-)\r\n\r\nHrant calls everyone out.\r\n\r\nHere are a few comments on the
    lc:\r\n\r\nSerifs: They are all the same length. This is giving you spacing problems
    and balance problems. Spacing: wvy etc and Balance: rf.\r\n\r\nr: too wide. What
    about a beak like to be consistent.\r\nt: narrow. I might try the bottom less
    hooked.\r\nbdqp: you'll probably need to thin the bowls slightly where they join,
    like you have on the n\r\ns: the terminals make this very closed. May need to
    thin the top and bottom so it doesn't get too dark. \r\nlining numerals: have
    weight/modulation problems see the 5. 1 is narrow :-) 4. I'm not liking the serif
    on the end of the arm. It makes an already awkwardly spaced glyph even more so.
    It's also narrow.\r\n \r\nConsider Ben Keil's smart generate font robofab script.
    It creates a duplicate vbf, removes the overlaps, generates the fonts, and deletes
    the vbf in seconds. Very handy for testing.\r\n\r\nhttp://benkiel.com/typeDesign/\r\n\r\nRandy\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-18 04:46:54'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: The extra serif on the 4 bothers me too. And before reading all the comments,
    I was sure that "obviously deformed or wrong characters are placeholders" referred
    to the Q. For such a cozy typeface, the Q is rather uncozy. A medium-length, very
    gently s-curved tail is called for here.
  created: '2006-03-18 05:34:14'
- author:
    name: marcox
    picture: 110443
  body: I agree with Cerulean on the Q. Its current form would probably prevent me
    from buying this typeface, although I otherwise quite like the direction it's
    headed.
  created: '2006-03-19 08:14:19'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Thanks for the feedback, and thanks to hrant for startle people up. I have
    no pretension to feedback, as I can give back so little at the moment...\r\n\r\nHere
    is PDF V25.\r\nI've considered your comments, and those I got for Sofa Sans (the
    ones that are applicable on serif as well). Italic, Sans and Antiqua is is put
    on ice at the moment, as I want to finish this first.\r\n\r\nbdpq: thinned bowels
    a bit. they were too heavy in print.\r\ng: slightly less weight, based on my printing
    results.\r\nk: lower part slightly more heavy (printing results).\r\nr: narrower,
    beak. what do you think about it? first real life feedback was positive.\r\ns:
    a bit wider and lighter. But I think it's too gaunt now. Difficult...\r\nt: less
    hooked, you are absolutly right, this was inconsistent. Maybe I have to open it
    even more.\r\nu: slightly wider.\r\nvwxy: shorter serifs. goodbye elegance, welcome
    practice...\r\n\r\nQ: You are right, Q was a problem I have ignored yet. there
    are 4 alternates now. see the image below for details. I like Number 3 in the
    image best.\r\n\r\nae: smoother now\r\neth: bigger (based on my printouts, it
    turned out to be too small)\r\n\r\nring: more weight\r\nbreve: more weight\r\n\r\n1:
    redesign\r\n2: a bit wider\r\n4: goodbye serifs... Should I kill the bottom one
    as well?\r\n5: stroke weight redesigned\r\n6: lighter\r\n9: lighter\r\n\r\nHrant:
    what were your concerns about OS-numerals?\r\nRandy: Thanks for the Robofab-Link.
    I try to get this working, but I'm no programming crack, so this could take some
    time :)\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sofa25_Q.gif]\r\n\r\nSebilar\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-19 13:42:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> what were your concerns about OS-numerals?\r\n\r\nTheir up/down distribution,
    which is unique. Unique isn't\r\nnecessarily bad (depending not least on how much
    text the\r\ndesign is intended for) but Unique does benefit from some\r\nsort
    of justification (in a craft).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-21 03:11:23'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Hrant, I think you may have misinterpreted the sample on page 3, which shows
    five os numerals and five lining numerals. Both sets are on the last page. I must
    admit, though, that the way you saw it does have some intriguing potential. A
    numeric progression from small to descenders to ascenders would mean that you
    would get a vague idea of how big a number is with only a glance. That alone wouldn't
    necessarily be worth flaunting convention, though.
  created: '2006-03-21 11:28:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh. Sorry.  :-/\r\n\r\n> you would get a vague idea of how big a number is\r\n\r\nHadn't
    thought of that! Sort of how the visual density of\r\na glyph in Hangul indicates
    its grammatical function,\r\nproviding an extra layer of information for the reader.\r\n\r\n>
    That alone wouldn\u2019t necessarily be worth flaunting convention, though.\r\n\r\nI
    dunno. The conventional scheme is not only partly arbitrary, but it has problems
    too, most of all that the overall height position is too low compared to the lc.
    The old French OS scheme -with 3 and 5 ascending- is better in my view, and readers
    don't consciously notice the difference, so it probably has a \"subvisible\" functional
    advantage. In addition, one could argue for an acending 2 as well.\r\n\r\nSee
    also:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15443 _\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/2253 _\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/7701
    (Looks like a monologue because anonymous posts have been supressed.)\r\n\r\nNumeral
    design really has superb potential for growth.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-21 14:45:48'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Argh, sorry... my fault.\r\nI will correct this in the next PDF :)"
  created: '2006-03-21 22:56:52'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "The third Q is definitely better (and suited to the whole).\r\nI would drop
    the others. Other solutions (like the 2nd), although initially original, have
    been a little abused recently.\r\n\r\nBesides, as a general remark, I think the
    face would benefit from a general spacing tighten-up. At least the Roman."
  created: '2006-04-26 19:18:08'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "V_38:\r\n\r\nLots of finetuning, optical tweaking, kerning, some opentype-scripting,
    etc.\r\n\r\nHow do you like the new \"4\"?\r\ncompare it directly to V_25 on Page
    9 (black=new, red=old)\r\n\r\nNew: Smallcaps-Versions of currency symbols and
    some others. Some of them still have wrong stroke weight though.\r\nAre there
    any other glyphs left that could need a smallcaps-version too?\r\n\r\nThanks to
    this <a href=http://typophile.com/node/20526>thread</a> I'm motivated again. Want
    to come to an end with it soon, then polish the italic, do a lot of beta-testing,
    publish it and then getting RICH RICH RICH (or die tryin' ;-).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-11 15:21:44'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: 'I love this so far. It truly is a "cozy" face. It reminds of something Underware
    would do, actually. I''d certainly purchase this. '
  created: '2006-06-13 10:26:10'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Hi Sebastian,\r\n\r\nSorry to take so long to make comments. I have to budget
    the time I give for online critiques; your fine craftsmanship and thoroughness
    tell me you intend to develop this fully. Very nice specimen texts as well. \r\n\r\nI
    still see some big kinks in the basic set; with a design like this whose modelling
    is so subtle, these stand out and snag the eye:\r\n\r\n* Center crossbars on EF
    too short. Serifs in these letters do tend to clash or close up, but see Dante
    for an example of a successful application of long serifs in these shapes. \r\n*
    Joint of diagonals of K with vertical very dark and crowded, makes letter look
    narrow. Rearrange where these strokes meet. \r\n* Some serifs are still much too
    long; see AVWY and tails of K and R. Conversely, the serifs on C, E, L, T and
    Z are unnecessarily short. \r\n* The obvious humanist proportions of the lowercase
    call for corresponding variation in width proportions in the uppercase. Homogenizing
    the UC widths creates a deadening feel which doesn't fit the lowercase. See E,
    F, T (wide) and K, M (narrow). A will look better if the outside serifs are shortened.\r\n*
    Do the R and K need to have a drooping, bowed leg? Elsewhere in the design, stems
    seem rigid (in a pleasing way) and these sagging elements seem like they were
    left out in the sun. Consider reversing the bow, for more pleasing tension.\r\n*
    The nice tapered serifs and the tapered stems imply a range of contrast that the
    general stroke weights don't deliver except in a few letters: d, e, h, r, z. Consider
    bringing the contrast modeling, with the color benefits it brings, to the rest
    of the letters. Especially caps like B, D, E, F, G, M, N, O, R, S, W will benefit
    from some lightening in appropriate spots. Also a, g, k, w and z will improve
    with some adjustment in contrast. A striking example is how monoline W and S look
    compared to d and n. Look at S and T together. \r\n* Why does the y have such
    an emphatic tail? The bend at the end of the stroke is already eye-catching; adding
    a serif at an abrupt angle makes it inescapable. The angle and density of the
    serifs on s and S also act as snags to the reader's eye. Consider at least changing
    the angle of these. \r\n* Apply the corner-lightening trick more in letters like
    m, n, u, r. the odd horizontal serifs on those letters add weight at the x-height
    that is continued in their monoline arches and other serifs like those of vwy.
    LC a would really improve with some thinning of joints. \r\n* The i-t ligature
    should be removed: When I read your sample text, it appears exactly to my eye
    as an f-i ligature. Consider removing other ligatures which distort the components
    beyond readable recognition: cr, cl, sl. Also consider eliminating ligatures that
    aren't necessary; is reading enhanced by an sk ligature? It isn't strictly an
    improvement. \r\n* The oldstyle figures look preliminary. Contrast, proportions,
    shapes, and especially the 4 look thrown together. I realize you've put a lot
    of attention on the 4, but it doesn't even appear to be from the same font. Not
    because of the unconventional shape, but because it's still so monoline, and appears
    to be leaning and bent. Balance is what it needs. 5 also looks like a transplant
    from a grotesque sans. Look at other typefaces to get ideas about where to apply
    weight in the shapes of 2, 5, and 7. \r\n* The weight issue of g can be solved
    with *redistribution* of weight, rather than simply making it lighter overall.
    This shape, because of its complexity, needs this kind of modeling anyway, especially
    in a Slab or Sans design where horizontal stems pile up and make a letter dark.
    You see this in a, e, g, s, and B. \r\n\r\nThe spacing in the text samples is
    very loose, especially considering the narrow space character. Is that text tracked?
    I think the letters need closer fitting overall. Put two m's together to see what
    I mean.\r\n\r\nMany of my comments seem to ignore the \"program\" or \"logic\"
    of this design. If there is any rule I think worth following in type design, it
    is: Rules of logic fall apart more and more as a typeface is realized, and the
    result should only appear to the untrained observer as if serifs are actually
    the same, stems are identical, etc. In this design, I see that the sharp serif
    angle and low contrast are apparent themes. However, where they impede smooth
    reading or distract the eye, they are only mannerisms. \r\n\r\nOther than these
    comments, I see the potential for this design to be very useful in many settings.
    It does convey the comfortable quality you intend. Eliminate the few scratchy,
    lumpy elements, and it will be a chaise worthy of weekly afternoon naps for years
    to come.... "
  created: '2006-06-13 19:16:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ooooh, Carl ups the ante. Very nice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-13 22:30:30'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Wow, thanks a lot for taking the time for this feedback, Carl! These are
    the details that I missed so far, without knowing where to get them from.\r\n\r\nI
    will need a dictionary to understand everything and and it will take me a lot
    of time to introduce the improvements beside my job, but this is very appreciated
    and it will not be forgotten.\r\n\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2006-06-14 12:28:37'
- author:
    name: AnalogSystm
    picture: 111143
  body: "Beautiful font!\r\nI'd buy it the minute it was released.\r\n\r\nGood job!\r\n\r\n\r\n---\r\nOscar
    Bjarna\r\nhttp://analog.sys.is"
  created: '2006-06-28 23:20:37'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "So version 40 is up (see first post).\r\n\r\nThere are lots of changes suggested
    by crossgrove, though not all yet.\r\n\r\nI ...\r\n<ul><li>seriously redesigned
    the uppercase (serifs, proportions, stroke weight, details)\r\n<li>made some changes
    to the lowercase (stroke weight, serif angles, details)\r\n<li>tried some changes
    for the figures (I'm not very satisfied with them yet)</ul>\r\n\r\n\r\nConcerning
    ligatures: The using in small sizes in the sample sheet actually is \"wrong\"
    (respectively only for testing the spacing of them). I am aware that they should
    only be used (with deliberation) for display purposes.\r\n\r\nConcerning loose
    spacing: The sample is not tracked, the setting is that loose at the moment, which
    might be a relict of even longer serifes. I'm considering to tighten it a bit,
    though I'm not sure to which extent: in Europe, typographers tend to prefer a
    bit looser spacing than in America, if my perception is right. I am influenced
    by that obviously, but anyway, spacing is too loose at the moment.\r\n\r\nConcerning
    program of a font: I am aware of, that one has to leave the path of strict guidelines
    when giving a design perfection. But as a beginner, this can be dangerous: I'm
    afraid of getting stuck in small optical changes and lose track of things. This
    is why I tried to avoid as much of \"irrational\" tweaks as possible until now,
    but I know that this keeps me from finishing it. I have to grope my way piece
    by piece now :)\r\n\r\nThanks for your encouraging and detailed comments. Without
    this feedback I'd be stuck in this state of work...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nOscar:
    thanks for your comment, this tells me that I'm not doing this all just to file
    the whole thing in the end...\r\n\r\nI specially like the ornamental/floral works
    on your homepage (that doesn't mean that I don't like the rest...)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nGreetings
    from Austria\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2006-07-08 22:22:01'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Sebastian, I'm glad my comments were useful to you. Sometimes a design gets
    stuck in a dead end and it's hard to back it out without a fresh look. \r\n\r\n\"should
    only be used (with deliberation) for display purposes\"\r\n\r\nI hope you are
    ready for all the horrible things people will do with your font that they shouldn't....
    Stretching, condensing, skewing, outlining, tracking, hitting the \"punk\" filter
    in Illustrator.... and of course turning on all ligatures and setting a book.
    \ ;)\r\n\r\nI see the improvements you've made. It's stronger already. Caps look
    much more settled. Your work is very subtle and decisive. The spacing, I think,
    is still too loose for general use, even if the trend is toward loose spacing.
    This design is somewhat unique in that the serifs are not all equal to stem weights,
    and there's a lot of proportionality to the design, so spacing will be very tricky.
    When that's done thoughtfully, I'm sure you'll like it better. If your monitor
    is big enough, I suggest viewing spacing at 2 very different sizes, such as 16
    point and 80 point. Some spacing decisions look right at one size that simply
    are bad at another. I'm sure you noticed that already. \r\n\r\nI like it!"
  created: '2006-07-11 01:39:55'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "> Sometimes a design gets stuck in a dead end and it\u2019s hard to back
    it out without a fresh look.\r\n\r\nA few months ago I couldn't believe how some
    typedesigners could work on several fonts the same time. Now I know why :). That's
    why I'm working on a new one (working title \"dark chocolate\", sketch-stadium).
    A very early version can be seen in typebattle#12, and a newer one, if chosen,
    in typecon exhibition. It's a pity that it is the least-thought-about one I have
    to offer...\r\nAnd I'm even thinking about getting Terra Nova back on track. When
    looking at that one now, I see about 200.000 improvements to be made :)\r\n\r\n>
    I hope you are ready for all the horrible things people will do with your font
    that they shouldn\u2019t\u2026\r\n\r\nAt the moment, I'm arguing with a friend
    of mine (a graphics designer), because he wanted a bold version of Sofa/Canap\xE9,
    and used an outline to achieve that, even without asking me to redraw the four
    glyphs he actually needed... It will be shown about 4*3m in size \u2013 Beautiful!
    :(\r\n\r\n\r\n> spacing\r\n\r\nI'm so shy about that because I'm afraid that it
    will destroy the kerning time already invested. But that's my fault, if doing
    such things before having the letter shapes settled down... Just need some overcoming
    to get it started.\r\n\r\nWhat I've learned is that typedesign is suffering, especially
    as a beginner :). And what is needed, but understandably rare, is feedback from
    people who really \"know\". Amsterdam, Reading and other schools are far from
    here, and the decision to go there is not easy, so I'm dependant on friendly people
    who like to help.\r\n\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2006-07-11 08:41:50'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Ulp!\r\n\r\nDon't do any kerning until the shapes and spacing are final!
    In fact, remove all your kerning (argghhh!) so you can look at just default spacing.
    \r\n\r\nThis isn't so bad; when all the shapes and default spacing are done, you'll
    discover much less kerning is necessary. Kerning is just to fix pairs that can't
    look good by default spacing, like LT. \r\n\r\n\"Typedesign is suffering\"   ;
    D"
  created: '2006-07-11 18:05:34'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "So, 13 weeks later, here is the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/sofa_v53_14.10.06.pdf\"
    target=_blank>update</a> :)\r\n\r\nI've been working on Sofa Serif Roman to get
    it almost finished. To achieve this, I made some detours to a Black and Ultralight
    version and to the Roman Italic, to explore more about the general shape principles
    (and of course I proped heavily on Carls comments). This was very useful for me,
    it made me have a new look at the principles of the design, and I think I could
    improve the Roman based on that experience. (You can see Black and Ultralight
    them compared to the roman in the end of the PDF. They are not perfect yet and
    won't be until Roman is finished.)\r\n\r\nThen I returned to the Roman, and I
    won't stop for another typeface until it's finished. I did a lot of finetuning
    of proportions, stroke weight and details, and I think now I can say the basic
    character set is almost finished.\r\n<strong>Please be critical and tell me about
    every minor error you still find!</strong> I think there are no major ones anymore,
    but I'm willing to negotiate ;-)\r\n\r\nI've completely re-done the metrics. Spacing
    is finished, kerning is in finetuning and correction phase, and yes Carl, of course
    you were right: there is less to do now than in my first attempt.\r\n\r\nWhat
    is still to be done:\r\n- redesign ligatures, swashes, etc.\r\n- check whether
    smallcaps are too thin (I have the misgiving they are...)\r\n- Kerning of Uppercase<-->Smallcaps\r\n-
    finetuning of some figures\r\n- have a look at the opentype classes and coding
    whether it's still appropriate and complete\r\n- rearrange diacritics\r\n\r\nSo
    if you have the time and willing, please concentrate your comments on basic character
    set <strong>(A-Z, Asmall-Zsmall, a-z, 0-9 and basic ASCII characters)</strong>.\r\nOf
    course, everything else is apprecialted as well, but know that I'm still working
    on them, so comments too much into detail may be overtaken by my own corrections
    anyway... But don't feel hesitated to comment conceptional things or major mistakes.
    For example, I don't know much about diacritics, It's mainly looking at solutions
    others have done, but's I can't say \"now everything is correct\".\r\n\r\nThanks
    for your help\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2006-10-14 00:42:52'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Short intermezzo: which lig-style do you prefer?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lig_4396.gif]"
  created: '2006-10-14 15:53:25'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Middle option, I hope you weren't considering just crashing two letters together
    as an option.
  created: '2006-10-14 22:12:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The middle one. Although it might be worth trying an ironed out version of
    leftmost \"crashed\" one (with the beak of the \"f\" in there).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-14 22:30:38'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "No, it was the example how no-lig would look like.\r\nI've chosen the middle
    one, but have weakened the wavy effect slightly."
  created: '2006-10-14 22:31:55'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: :) I'll try this, hrant (and be it just for fun).
  created: '2006-10-14 22:33:30'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "So here is the next update (first posting, version 61).\r\n\r\nI think my
    last \"big\" post from 14th October was sabotaged by the shortly after \"intermezzo\".
    What I said there is still up-to-date, but I worked on, especially on:\r\n\r\n-
    redesign ligatures, swashes, etc.A\r\n- thickened smallcaps slightly\r\n- a lot
    more of kerning with quotation marks etc.\r\n- some opentype stuff\r\n- rearranged
    diacritics\r\n\r\nI will go on, but it's mainly bugfixing now, so if you find
    some of them, you could help me a lot.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Rhythmus.be
      picture: 111885
    body: "> bugfixing\r\n\r\nThere is still an overlap in the cursive (alternate
      italic) lowercase \"r\" (branch over stem)."
    created: '2006-10-22 22:50:40'
  created: '2006-10-22 17:22:16'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: How is this coming along?
  created: '2007-05-26 23:50:32'
- author:
    name: kuroneko
    picture: 112403
  body: I really like it, especially the "organic" effect created by your stroke variations,
    the sofa builder is fun, I'm not too sure of your ultralight version but I love
    the black one, a good looking font that made me think of <em><a href="http://www.porchez.com/ateliertypo">Bussigny
    Serif</a></em>. Nice one!
  created: '2007-05-27 13:16:29'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Roman can be considered as finished. It is just waiting for the italic and
    maybe a bold to be released. I have done kyrillic and greek letters, but they
    won't be included in a first release. They are not good yet.\r\n\r\nItalic is
    on it's way to be finished.\r\n\r\nBlack and Ultralight haven't moved yet.\r\n\r\nSofa
    Sans: A modified and improved version is being used in a children's book I've
    made a view weeks ago. It does not have the same glyph count as Serif at the moment.\r\n\r\nI've
    also done some experiments with an\r\n- Sofa Antiqua: quite okay, but far away
    from finished, Bussigny reminds me of it...\r\n- Sofa Script (not quite okay,
    what I want to do needs a lot of opentype and glyph variants).\r\n\r\n\r\nAt the
    moment, I have 15 hours of work a day, so I don't have the time to go on. I will
    continue in about one and a half months. I have an urge to do that, but it is
    not possible right now...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-28 10:59:38'
- author:
    name: AndersonMaschio
    picture: 112133
  body: It's beautiful! Congratulations Sebastian.
  created: '2007-08-13 14:40:32'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "So now I have added Version 0.80 to the first posting of this thread.\r\nIf
    no one has objections, this will be final version 1.0 for Sofa Serif Roman.\r\n\r\nThe
    forms are settled, the metrics are done, the features are defined and coded, and
    everything approved in small internal projects.\r\nWhat is *not* final are the
    cyrillic and greek letters shown in the pdf. They will not be included in Version
    1.0 of the font, but I wanted to show them anyway to get feedback.\r\n\r\nI will
    now concentrate on finishing the two italics (normal and more swashed), which
    are about 70% on their way, and a bold version (just started). But with roman
    being \"final\" I now have something to follow.\r\nAnd there are still ultrabold
    and ultralight, which are waiting to be continued. I needed them to go on with
    the roman, and they will now need some redrawing, but they were no waste of time...
    And I don't even dare to mention Sans and Antiqua ;-)\r\n\r\nSo what do you think?\r\nSebastian"
  created: '2007-12-13 17:10:35'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Oh and there's another question I have: Hinting does not seem to work very
    well at the moment.\r\n\r\nI have tried this:\r\nhttp://scripts.sil.org/cms/scripts/page.php?site_id=nrsi&cat_id=fontdesigntools\r\n\r\nbut
    as you can see in the PDF, it was not very successful, glyphs are still jumping
    up and down in some zoom levels, especially the capitals..."
  created: '2007-12-13 17:22:02'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "ok, now I am confused: I am sure I have created this thread in the critique
    -> serif section.\r\nWhy is it in the General Discussions section now?"
  created: '2007-12-13 17:23:51'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I can move it for you Sebastian. I don't know how it  moved.
  created: '2007-12-13 17:41:49'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: Thank you Miss Tiffany
  created: '2007-12-13 19:01:45'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "very solid, IMO. just a few things\r\n\r\nRoman: the bar on the eth seems
    a bit wimpy; i'm not sure what the h+macron is, but i don't think it's an hbar;
    i think your join on the k makes the outside counter too large and the inner counters
    too small; the diacritic on the dcaron, tcaron and lcaron might be a bit too discrete,
    you might be able to make it a bit longer; i think the tail on the y is too strong
    for genetral text use in English where y's are actually quite frequent.\r\n\r\nCyrillic:
    the De seems a bit too narrow (same with lowercase de), it looks more narrow than
    the El; the Pe seems very wide; the teeth on the De don't seem to be long enough,
    same with the tails on the Tse and Shcha (same for de, tse, shcha); the arms on
    Ka and Zhe seem a bit weak and i think they would work better with similar terminal
    treatments - these forms should correlate; The Zhe and zhe look much too narrow;
    the horizontal serif on the left foot of the El looks very strange, it would likely
    work better if it matched the kind of terminal that you put on the foot of the
    U (U looks similar to Y) same problem with the lower case el; the central bar
    of the Ef can overshoot the Cap and Baselines so that your counters can be larger;
    the tail on the Hard Sign might be able to be a bit larger; the be seems quite
    good to my eyes; the pe looks odd with the upper serifs missing as do tse, sha,
    shcha with missing lower serifs; the upper counter of the che seems a bit too
    large; The legs on Ya and ya seem week - same problem as with Ka and Zhe\r\n\r\nthere
    you go, i hope that helps. gook luck!"
  created: '2007-12-13 20:09:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "heck, i'll even take a bit of a stab at the Greek:\r\nbeta, theta and delta
    seem very wide compared to the rest of the characters, some characters may be
    too narrow, that's about all i can say on that one."
  created: '2007-12-13 20:21:50'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Thank you Paul, especially for looking at the diacritics as well, they are
    often forgotten, and there are not many sources to rely on, as you could see with
    the \"hbar\" (I must somewhere have seen this h+macron form and thought it was
    correct).\r\n\r\nI have done the corrections you suggested, and I am especially
    more happy with the \"k\" now, and I have also changed the \"y\", which now should
    be less dominant.\r\n\r\nAbout the Cyrillic and Greek: As you can see, I just
    don't know what I am doing there, it's like flying a jumbo jet on sight instead
    of on instruments. I can have a look at other solutions, but I just don't know
    if they are good, and chances are high that I mix things up. I have done some
    corrections now, but I'm sure they are not good yet, especially the \"Ka, Zhe,
    Ya\" problem is still present, and of course many forms don't have the tension
    yet that I'd like to see. But first I have to become aware of the basics...\r\nFor
    the Greek, I have orientated widely on Adobes Garamond Premier, because I've heard
    that it has a fine greek alphabet, but of course it's something different to do
    a Garamond Greek than to do an almost monolinear slab serif Greek."
  created: '2007-12-14 10:19:10'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: path direction on Iogonek is wrong, or you didn't remove overlap.
  created: '2007-12-14 11:58:08'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: Thanks for pointing me to this, I have checked path directions some versions
    ago, but they already were a mess again... Now all path directions are postscript
    and when removing overlaps there are no more white artifacts (I have checked through
    everything in Indesign and PDF in different zoom levels, so I hope I have not
    missed one).
  created: '2007-12-15 15:15:46'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "Concerning Opentype SMCP and C2SC features:\r\n\r\nI have special small caps
    figures, currency units and some other symbols in the font.\r\n\r\nWhich version
    is better?\r\n\u2014 SMCP only changes lower case letters, C2SC changes upper
    case, figures, symbols\r\n\u2014 SMCP changes lowercase, figures, symbols, C2SC
    finally changes upper case as well\r\n\r\nAt the moment I have implemented the
    second variant."
  created: '2008-01-24 10:12:38'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "And: is there a website, link, thread, that explains the problematique of
    turkish dotless i and ligatures? I could not find a good explanation yet, and
    I'd like to do this \"right\" from the beginning.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nHow is it going?\r\n\r\nRoman:
    Bugfixing, but finished.\r\nRoman Italic: Bugfixing, almost finished.\r\nBold:
    derivated from Roman, almost finished, looks good (this was surprisingly easy)\r\nBold
    Italic: working on it at the moment (this is quite difficult)"
  created: '2008-01-24 10:17:27'
- author:
    name: yader
    picture: 110383
  body: "Maybe these threads can shed light on the turkish dotless i / ligatures problem:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/34200\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/33330\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-01-27 19:42:15'
- author:
    name: ferfolio
    picture: 128984
  body: "Nice work!\r\n\r\ni like this type, keep up!\r\n\r\nChears\r\n\r\nFerch\r\n\r\n[[http://www.tipografia-montevideo.info/|Tipograf\xEDa-Montevideo]]"
  created: '2008-02-03 02:20:25'
- author:
    name: JRGcisterna
    picture: 113441
  body: "Very good job\r\nA very attractive typography\r\nI also liked the way in
    which we show\r\nCongratulations\r\nFrom Chile"
  created: '2008-02-04 20:05:52'
- author:
    name: Jojoto
    picture: 110956
  body: "Very nice! Can't wait to see it finished.\r\n___________________________\r\nJos\xE9
    Rodriguez\r\n[[http://www.heyjose.com|heyjose.com]]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-03-31 10:58:55'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "just an update (see first posting for PDF):\r\n\r\n- serif roman  (finished)\r\n-
    serif bold   (quite finished?)\r\n\r\n\r\n\"serif roman italic\", \"serif bold
    italic\", \"sans roman\" and \"sans bold\" coming soon (not included extensively
    in pdf as the need one more round of polishing)."
  created: '2008-06-25 21:35:02'
- author:
    name: zoltok
  body: "Hello Sebastian,\r\n\r\nLove the face. I will leave the deep typographic
    critique to the experts here, but I just noticed that in your specimen the apostrophe
    faces the other direction than I'm used to seeing. Is this intentional?\r\n\r\nLooking
    forward to seeing more updates!"
  created: '2008-06-25 22:03:16'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: Thanks for your comment. Can you tell me on which page (or which sentence)
    the "wrong" apostrophe can be found? It might be an error in the font, or just
    in the example text (which is quite copy pasted without much revision...)
  created: '2008-06-25 22:57:14'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: 'BTW: The current versions in the PDF do not have hinting applied yet. I''ve
    tried Autohinting with Fontlab + AFDKO, which works quite fine, but if I do that,
    the f_f_h and f_f_k ligature are not visible anymore in Indesign CS2 (not tested
    in other apps yet). All the other ligatures and glyphs work fine. Any ideas why
    this could be?'
  created: '2008-06-25 23:16:27'
- author:
    name: laserj
  body: Check out pages 8 & 11 of your pdf, second to last line on both, the word
    "Don't". That's the only two I saw. She's a beaut by the way. Good lookin' specimen
    to boot.
  created: '2008-06-26 04:38:08'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: Thanks. It was just an error in the test document. Will be corrected in the
    next update.
  created: '2008-06-26 09:19:29'
- author:
    name: zoltok
  body: "I also spotted it in the sample copy \u2013\_the french paragraph is the
    only one with multiple instances of apostrophes, and all are facing to the right."
  created: '2008-06-26 18:31:55'
- author:
    name: _Palatine_
    picture: 115977
  body: "Hello everyone. My old e-mail addy was consigned to oblivion a while ago,
    and with it went my ability to re-open my old typophile account. So I made a new
    one. \r\n\r\nRecent projects have pulled me back into the font scene, and this
    \"Canape\" face is looking very good. I understand it's scheduled for release
    in 2008. So is it already here? Or soon to be?\r\n\r\nWarm regards,\r\n\r\nChristian."
  created: '2008-10-04 01:59:13'
- author:
    name: benkiel
    picture: 110356
  body: "I've just updated the betterGenerateFont script. It's better now.\r\nhttp://www.benkiel.com/typeDesign/scripts/downloads/betterGenerateFont.zip"
  created: '2009-04-17 16:57:20'
- author:
    name: AccessGuy
    picture: 117441
  body: I would love to purchase this slab serif typeface as I think it is even nicer
    than Nexus Mix, my current favorite slab serif. I am a bit confused as to the
    naming however...is it "Sofa" or "Canape?"
  created: '2009-06-03 19:42:36'
- author:
    name: AccessGuy
    picture: 117441
  body: Hmmm I see that my last post was THE last post! Have there been any developments
    with this type face in the last THREE years?? Please let us know!!
  created: '2012-08-01 18:08:53'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "I just came here, looking for some old details i was asking then ... \r\n\r\nI
    was working on Canap\xE9 heavily the last half year again, and I have production
    ready Roman and Bold Serifs, and I'm heavily working on getting the italics there
    too, looking for family inconsistencies, bugs, etc., especially in metrics and
    kerning. \r\nThe bugs are getting rather rare now and things keep looking good
    whatever text i throw at that family ... can't promise a realease date yet (I'm
    building a home sideways), but the next font that comes out from me is Canap\xE9
    Serif in a 4-members family or one more member (a ultra bold). \r\nDecember 2012
    is a very optimistic perspective, Feburary 2013 is more realistic. It will be
    available on www.fonts.info and myfonts.com. I'll make some noise right here too
    of course ...\r\n\r\nOn the name: There is a \"Sofa\" typeface out there, so i
    moved to Canap\xE9. I still like the name, i guess i'll stay with it.  \r\n"
  created: '2012-09-07 23:57:05'
- author:
    name: flooce
    picture: 118607
  body: "I love Tierra Nova. Regarding \u201ESofa\u201C, describing it as cozy, dude
    that is so Austrian of you :D"
  created: '2012-09-08 22:53:16'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "It's here (well, the first part is here)!\r\n\r\nThe microsite: http://canape.fonts.info/\r\nThe
    PDF: http://fonts.info/pub/pdf/canape-serif-en.pdf\r\nThe PDF at issuu: http://issuu.com/fonts.info/docs/canape-serif-en?mode=window"
  created: '2013-05-14 15:20:15'
- author:
    name: J Mayfield
    picture: 120880
  body: 'Nice work! Has a lovely feel to it. '
  created: '2013-06-08 02:44:00'
date: '2006-01-08 02:13:16'
files:
- filename: sofa_v04.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_v04.pdf
- filename: sofa_v08.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_v08.pdf
- filename: sofa_v10.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_v10.pdf
- filename: sofa_v11.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_v11.pdf
- filename: sofa_v17.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_v17.pdf
- filename: sofa_v24.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_v24.pdf
- filename: sofa_serif25.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_serif25.pdf
- filename: sofa_serif_38.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_serif_38.pdf
- filename: sofa_serif_40.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_serif_40.pdf
- filename: sofa_v53_14.10.06.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_v53_14.10.06.pdf
- filename: sofa_v61.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_v61.pdf
- filename: Sofa_Serif_Roman_v80.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Sofa_Serif_Roman_v80.pdf
- filename: Sofa_Serif_Roman_v82.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Sofa_Serif_Roman_v82.pdf
- filename: Sofa_Serif_Roman_v84.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Sofa_Serif_Roman_v84.pdf
- filename: sofa_120_125.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_120_125.pdf
- filename: sofa_120_125_0.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/sofa_120_125_0.pdf
node_type: forum
title: 'Sofa: a cosy typeface'

---
