---
author:
  name: fsamuel
  picture: 111220
body: "Feels like a lot of companies new years resolutions were to rebrand themselfs.
  Kodak is newest one that has done just that.\r\n\r\n\"In another break with the
  past, Eastman Kodak Co. is introducing a new corporate logo designed to help the
  company forge a new image as a cutting-edge, 21st century innovator. \r\n\r\nKodak's
  new corporate symbol retains the company's distinctive red and yellow colors, but
  does away with the boxes that have contained the word \"Kodak\" for the past 70
  years.\" \r\n\r\nI think the new logo doesn't say anything about the company. They
  left out the red box which was the the only original thing they had going for them.
  I don't know about this one, what do you guys think? "
comments:
- author:
    name: curtze
    picture: 111199
  body: "to me: unbelievable. how can a company discard a good, well-known sign for
    something as non-distinct (and typographically mediocre) as the new sign.\r\n\r\na
    refinement of their old logo would have done a far better job."
  created: '2006-01-07 21:17:36'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: True, curtze. This is even worse than the other recent rebrandings (UPS, AT&T,
    Intel) because they shed what was distinct and recognizable in their mark for
    a very generic symbol.
  created: '2006-01-07 21:33:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think Kodak is running scared. The film and processing business made billions
    for them but they are bit players in the new digital world. Photo CDs are old
    hat with web sources dominating the stock image market.  Where is their niche?
    They don't know. They don't have a new vision to go to so they make a nondescript
    logo which distances them from their past but gives them no future. Rebranding
    is fine if you have something to rebrand to. What is Kodak's go-to spot in the
    market? I sure don't know. Does anyone else see where they can travel?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-07 23:07:11'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Watch'em all burn.
  created: '2006-01-07 23:20:04'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I think they will keep fighting for some time. But I agree this re-brand does
    look like a mistake for the reasons mentioned. Of course there is aple room for
    another re-brand to correct this problem. Think of the Prudential re-brand. They
    steped back from the brink. Kodak can too.
  created: '2006-01-08 00:35:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Kodak will be OK.\r\nThey could give away digital cameras, and still make
    money on selling the batteries for them.\r\n(They realized that the distribution
    logisitcs of batteries are the same as film rolls quite some time ago.)\r\nThey
    also own Leaf, which was the first high-end pro digital camera.\r\nThey may not
    be the dominant force that they once were, but they have diversified, and there
    will always be a residual market for film, just as there is for vinyl.\r\nOh,
    and yeah, the new logo is a bit weak.\r\nFunny how big ole companies will ditch
    a longstanding logo just as it's coming back into style, replacing it with something
    that's just going out of fashion!"
  created: '2006-01-08 00:53:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Wasn't Leaf the high-end scanner maker a few years back? 80s?\r\n\r\nI love
    your \"batteries\" analogy with film Nick :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-08 01:43:40'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: A bit weak? Mr.Shinn, you have a gift for understatement.
  created: '2006-01-08 04:21:18'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: Very strange. Re-branding for re-branding's sake I think. Also, apart from
    the bizarre finial on the 'a', I find their previous logo distinctly more contemporary.
  created: '2006-01-08 18:08:41'
- author:
    name: Jon Whipple
    picture: 110113
  body: "Of course this is a bad mark because they have no swoop or swirl or swoosh.
    \r\n\r\nAnd it's not blue.\r\n\r\nHow the heck can you rebrand without a swoosh
    and no blue?\r\n\r\nShoulda asked me:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kodak_spoof.gif]\r\n\r\nMy
    design is better because it has swooshes (2 of them for double the effective rebranding
    capacity). Massive rebrand blueness. Arial, which is a font that everybody has
    on their computer, so now even the CEO can make his/her own advertising designs
    and have the corporate font for free! Poor spacing and kerning for added communications
    smoothness and finesse. Also a cool new tag line that's all about the future.
    And clicking. \r\n\r\nJon"
  created: '2006-01-09 01:08:16'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: I'm buying stock tomorrow. Good job.
  created: '2006-01-09 01:25:46'
- author:
    name: Spire
    picture: 109705
  body: 'I like this tagline even better: <cite>We''re all about the future. And clicking.</cite>'
  created: '2006-01-09 01:26:49'
- author:
    name: matthew_desmond
    picture: 110578
  body: In my opinion, part of the reason these corporate rebrands are failing is
    that they are giving in to design by committee. I attribute this to all of the
    branding firms or internal designers who are just trying to make money and please
    the client instead of putting forth strong opinions. I believe all of these rebrands
    would turn out stronger if they had a singular designer like Paul Rand who could
    really sell the company on a strong idea and not take no for an answer. Maybe
    I'm being nostalgic, but it seems to me like money is the motivator these days
    and not soul or quality. Just a quick drunk thought...
  created: '2006-01-09 04:47:36'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "More discussion on this new logo and some direct-from-the-design-team insight
    (in the comments) at <a href=\"http://www.underconsideration.com/speakup/archives/002512.html#002512\">Speak
    Up</a>.\r\n\r\nNote: The yellow bars are not actually part of the logo. It's just
    the wordmark."
  created: '2006-01-09 15:04:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "From the \"Speakup\" link:\r\n\"From the only press release so far on the
    change: This new look moves the Kodak name out of the traditional yellow box;
    giving it a more contemporary design, a streamlined rounded look and distinctive
    letters. This introduction is the latest step in the company\u2019s broad brand
    transformation effort, which reflects the multi-industry, digital imaging leader
    Kodak has become.\"\r\n\r\nI think that \"digital imaging leader Kodak has become\"
    is a bit overstated if not wishful thinking. Names like Canon, Adobe, and Epson
    (among others) come to mind way before Kodak.\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-09 16:41:56'
- author:
    name: Jon Whipple
    picture: 110113
  body: "I thought that by purchasing CREO Kodak became a leader overnight. I think
    that the new wordmark refers to the CREO logo (which looks strangely familiar
    to me...<a href=\"http://intel.com/\">intel?</a>)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/graf_creo.gif]\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-09 19:25:37'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: If not intel...perhaps close to the new UPS brand? that 'r' seems like it
    would fit...
  created: '2006-01-09 19:32:49'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: the "d" looks like an old roll of film from the end
  created: '2006-01-09 21:00:30'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Kodak definitely needs an update... they got into the digital game late,
    believing, like many photographers 8 years ago that digital couldn't hold the
    quality of film. They built their empire on cheap distribution of film and film
    processing (paper) and kiosks. Old, old and um, old.\r\n\r\nThe photography companies
    that are players now are the ones coming from either the quality camera optics
    realm, like Nikon or Canon or the ones that have always been more in the consumer
    technology realm, Sony and Panasonic. Look at the top cameras for consumers and
    HP is in the game, which nobody could've guessed 5 years ago. \r\n\r\nKodak is
    trying pretty hard to turn into a digital company, and the old image is the last
    thing to go. I hope the rebrand works for them."
  created: '2006-01-10 09:06:18'
- author:
    name: basicframework
    picture: 110916
  body: "I noticed that no one's really commented on the typographic design of the
    new logo. \r\n\r\nTo me, the odd shape of the d-a combination, especially with
    the round bottom of the d, makes this new logo look like it says \"Koolak.\"\r\n\r\nBecause
    the red \"K\" box was so strong I'm surprised it wasn't worked in to logo as some
    form of wordmark, or even as a stylized leading K. \r\n\r\nBranding is all about
    those swooshes and arrows, though I suppose in this case a stylized K arrow would
    have been pointing backwards..!"
  created: '2006-01-10 12:35:40'
- author:
    name: mncz
    picture: 110221
  body: Gary, it is so weak overall that it's really not worth it to go in details.
    Even I wonder what they were thinking when doing this rebrand. They used to be
    a respectable company with a lot of history and it seems that they have discarded
    it all virtually overnight....
  created: '2006-01-10 13:31:04'
- author:
    name: Fisheye
    picture: 111178
  body: "It would seem as if the days of designing marks of significance are past.\r\n\r\nIn
    a few years, all corporate logos will be nothing but a series meaningless motion
    gestures and hack alterations of great typefaces."
  created: '2006-01-10 15:49:46'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Look at the top cameras for consumers and HP is in the game, which nobody
    could\u2019ve guessed 5 years ago. \r\n \r\nOff-topic, but who 5 years ago would
    have guessed that Nokia would be the #1 supplier of cameras world-wide? I'd guess
    that 99.6% of pics taken from mobile phones don't ever get printed - that kind
    of leaves Kodak in the dark (room). \r\n\r\nHere's a related logo that really
    needs a make-over... \r\nhttp://www.tonystrading.co.uk/galleries/annuals/kojak.htm\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-10 15:53:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Interesting that here people are very negative about the new logo, while at
    Speak Up they are positive or at least trying to be. The a looks bad to me as
    well.
  created: '2006-01-10 16:06:31'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "> <cite>Interesting that here people are very negative about the new logo,
    while at Speak Up they are positive or at least trying to be.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    wonder if that has to do with the fact that Allen Hori of Ogilvy & Mather\u2019s
    Brand Integration Group (design team responsible for the new logo) is part of
    the discussion.\r\n\r\nIt's easy to harshly criticize when the designer is nameless/faceless
    (or at least, not in the same room). However, some at Speak Up seems to understand
    a bit of tact goes a long way when you're discussing a design directly with the
    person who created it."
  created: '2006-01-10 16:22:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Kodak is trying pretty hard to turn into a digital company, and the old
    image is the last thing to go. I hope the rebrand works for them.\"\r\n\r\nI don't
    know what \"trying pretty hard\" means but a rebrand should have something new
    in the business model to reflect, not just a hope that if you \"Look like a Duck\"
    people will assume that you can quack. The problem is the new logo looks like
    it was made by a quack.\r\nMy philosophical 2 cents worth (or 2 points worth):\r\n1.
    Rebrand if you must but have something tangible going on in your company worthy
    of a second look. (Not just a smoke-and-mirrors job!)\r\n2. When you redesign
    a logo, make it at least as good as the one you are replacing. A brand is a precious
    thing to waste.\r\n\r\nI wish Kodak well with repositioning themselves and becoming
    a viable player but the logo just plain ain't makin' it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-10 16:35:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">a bit of tact goes a long way when you\u2019re discussing a design directly
    with the person who created it.\r\n\r\nOk, since we're not there, I'll be tactless.
    Could the series of bad logos we're seeing have something to do with the designers
    being graphic artists rather than type designers,and not really being used to
    doing type design? It seems to me that you would might get much better logos out
    of an accomplished type designer, or someone who has done a lot of logo work specifically.
    Just asking. "
  created: '2006-01-10 19:11:23'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: William - Although type design is a related art - it isn't what's missing.
    Graphic design is just a broad term. It can mean 100 things. People who specialize
    in the design of 'identity' ( and obviously who need to be typographically sensitive)
    are what's required. Not type gurus. Marketing is about more than getting your
    'kern on' or getting the bezier 'just so'. A whole lot more. I agree with the
    folks who said design by committee. Anytime a logo has this much indistinctiveness
    I always assume a committee had the last word.
  created: '2006-01-10 19:31:46'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: ">a bit of tact goes a long way when you\u2019re discussing a design directly
    with the person who created it.\r\n\r\n...and most important:  to see what they
    rejected.\r\n\r\n\r\n> ...or someone who has done a lot of logo work specifically.Just
    asking.\r\n\r\nAllen Hori is a well known creative director, talented guy... so
    I don't know what to say/answer... "
  created: '2006-01-10 19:32:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Identity Design is collaboration so Allen Hori can't be held *completely*
    responsible.
  created: '2006-01-10 19:35:20'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Strategically, the mark needed a refresh, and I am sure that Kodak will back
    this up with new packaging, POS signage, etc. to round out the whole brand. I
    am disappointed by the loss of the iconic K.\r\n\r\nI am very interested in seeing
    a critique of the letterforms. My first impression is that the a is wrong (too
    heavy at the bottom) and that the bottom right of curve on the d is wrong (the
    curve into the straight stroke is abrupt). Perhaps the form is correct, but that
    the beziers needed to be handled by a professional."
  created: '2006-01-10 19:52:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the beziers needed to be handled by a professional\r\n\r\nI don't think
    the biggest problem here is one of concept--although I don't particularly think
    the 'Bauhaus' style type is particularly forward looking, which it seems is what
    they wanted. \r\n\r\nThe problem is, as Joe gently (but deadly!) indicates, is
    that it is badly drawn. Do any of the experienced type designers here think the
    a, and d too, are well drawn? If someone has posted this to one of the critique
    forms, I'm sure people would jump on the break in the a and d--\"Is it round or
    a corner? Make up your mind don't be wishy washy...\" \r\n\r\nCan you imagine
    if Doyald Young or Jim Parkinson or Mark Simonson were given this general concept,
    that they would produce these letters? No way. "
  created: '2006-01-10 20:45:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "William - you make a good point here. The thing you have to keep in mind
    is that distictiveness & memorability can run counter to what is classically good
    and certainly orthodox type design. Making a company name/logo take slightly longer
    to resolve can aid in it's memorability a very desirable feature - but the distictiveness
    has to be done well. And it hasn't been done well in this case I think. \r\n\r\nBy
    making the a into an upsidedown e ( as I read it ) they were looking to slow down
    the eye & make is easier to recall the shape later. Same thing with the vague
    looking d. I think there was a method to the madness. \r\n\r\n>  the bottom right
    of curve on the d is wrong \r\n\r\nBut I also think the variation was poorly judged.
    I agree with Gary that the logo almost reads as 'Koolak' now. I think that the
    abruptness of the curve as Joe says, makes it misread. \r\n\r\nI have seen the
    logo a bit larger & more clearly now & it is better that way - but the basic problem
    set is the same. Moreover it needs to work well at low rez! Especially now."
  created: '2006-01-10 21:16:47'
- author:
    name: CJ DeWaal
    picture: 111262
  body: I'm not a big fan of the 'd' or the 'a'. Overall character weight seems to
    vary too. I think the kerning is about the best feature of this new logo. As far
    as why are all these new logos like intel looking so bad, I think a lot of it
    is design by committee. Another big part is probably design on computer. When
    clients sees preliminary marks, they often want to add color. If the mark doesn't
    work in black and white, it's just not working.
  created: '2006-01-10 22:13:44'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I think it could have been mod'd a little bit, just enough to give it some
    digitalness.  Somebody needs to write a book about these hacks responsible for
    ruining the classics.
  created: '2006-01-10 22:37:27'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "<em>In a few years, all corporate logos will be nothing but a series meaningless
    motion gestures and hack alterations of great typefaces.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd gradients.
    Lots of gradients. And let's not forget drop shadows...very classy.\r\n\r\nwww.ups.com"
  created: '2006-01-11 00:32:16'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: "As someone pointed out before, I also feel as if the age of concept driven
    design is quickly becoming a thing of the past. The group think mentality involved
    in design can really kill a brilliant concept. I've seen it time and time again.
    Slick, slick, slick, and modern (or what is perceived as modern) are all these
    companies seem to want.\r\n\r\nWhere's the integrity in design nowadays? People
    who actually believed in a concept and not just a paycheck? I'll take a Paul Rand
    logo any day of the week over this \"shyte\". Though I must admit, if any company
    needs a rebrand its IBM...certainly not timeless. www.ibm.com\r\n\r\n...although
    someone will probably just use FF Dax or FF Din and make it all lowercase."
  created: '2006-01-11 00:47:00'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I would love to see an ibm logo that was drawn by hand. Maybe in ink. That
    would be VERY cool.
  created: '2006-01-11 02:35:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I would love to see an ibm logo that was drawn by hand. Maybe in ink.\"\r\n\r\nIt
    was. Paul Rand drew it by hand. It was just the way things were done then.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-11 02:59:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> It was. Paul Rand drew it by hand. It was just the way things were done
    then.\r\n\r\nTrue, this was several years before Steve Jobs invented digital typography
    ;-)\r\n\r\nSeriously though, I'm sure sure one of the original ink drawings would
    be on display or available for viewing at the IBM museum. "
  created: '2006-01-11 05:39:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess Ikarus flew too close to the Sun then to predate Jobs & Co, :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-11 08:37:29'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 're; the ink I see your point. But I meant a casual almost gestural ibm. Something
    that felt natural and handmade and unpremeditated. '
  created: '2006-01-11 16:07:15'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: But would that say future?  Or computers?
  created: '2006-01-11 18:48:30'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "RE IBM - this linkie just posted to the ATypI list...\r\n\r\nhttp://www-03.ibm.com/ibm/history/exhibits/logo/logo_1.html\r\n\r\n...by
    longtime IBM font guy Jeff Engelman. \r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-01-11 18:55:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\nYour link brings back old memories. While I was attending Carnegie
    Mellon (1962-1966), I studied with and worked part-time for Ken Hiebert. He was
    doing freelance work for Paul Rand at the time and worked on the product graphics
    for the System 360. I just did some grunt production work. We also did some work
    for Rand for Westinghouse. I actually did some design work (washing machine product
    graphics) for them.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-11 22:35:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Those were the days when all the best logos had balls! \r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.msdn.com/larryosterman/archive/2005/07/14/438777.aspx\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-01-11 22:58:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Those were the days when all the best logos had balls!\"\r\n\r\nYup, and
    the Westinghouse circle W had three of them :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/WESTINGHOUSE_logo.gif]"
  created: '2006-01-12 00:12:43'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> But would that say future? Or computers?\r\n\r\nNow, I think it could.
    computers are sold less on the basis of their being technology now than on the
    basis that they do something for us. Service/results vs. Mhz. I think that trend
    will continue. A handwritten ibm logo would encoumpass that warmer point of view.
    Plus then they could be WARMER in feeling than Apple which would really be interesting.
    But they don't sell consumer devices anymore so thats that. \r\n\r\nThe three
    balls of westing house was the first logo I looked at & said to myself - 'that
    sucks'. Now I see why it might have been effective from a pure academic point
    of view. But on a gut level I have always & still hate it."
  created: '2006-01-12 08:10:17'
- author:
    name: DaveyJJ
  body: "It seems to me somehow \"weak\" or something. At best, a mediocre effort
    and I'm not personally sure I like either the \"d\" or \"a\" as they look like
    they'll be dated in only a decade (or less?). It isn't to my mind either strong
    enough or modern enough for the 21st century. And not really expressive enough
    about Kodak's future goals/desires. One of those logos you'll look at a few years
    hence and say to yourself \"Oh yeah, that's so 2006.\"\r\n\r\nI was never a huge
    fan of their previous logo (6.5/10 maybe?) but this one works even less for me.
    My $0.02 anyway.\r\n\r\nDaveyJJ <-- WidgetMonkey"
  created: '2006-01-12 15:43:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"they look like they\u2019ll be dated in only a decade (or less?). \"\r\n\r\nWe
    call that \"Built in obsolescence\". This is the trouble with designing a logo
    based on current \"style\" rather than communications need.  A well designed logo
    should last for many years.  The hardest part about a new logo is the time it
    takes for your audience to make the new association. If you think about the CocaCola
    logo (which I feel is pretty awful but would not change), you have brand identity
    that is extremely strong and shouldn't be tampered with.  A few years back, they
    did a new \"Coke\" swoosh logo which was an abysmal failure but not because it
    looked bad.  It looked fine enough. It failed because it screwed up the existing
    brand identity and the customers were really bent out of shape about it. Now CocaCola
    is not in any sort of midlife crisis like Kodak and have nothing to gain.\r\nBack
    to \"Built in obsolescence\". IMHO, there are SOME marketing/Branding firms about
    who would love to sell you a new logo or Brand even if you don't need one or even
    if it might do more harm than good.\r\nA couple of years ago Nike flirted with
    dumping the \u201CSwoosh\u201D in favor of plain lowercase italic serif type.
    I don\u2019t know who got the bright idea that Nike had a branding problem that
    required jerking the most successful logo on Earth and replacing it with ho-hum
    nuttin\u2019 but I am glad to see they went back to the swoosh shortly there after.
    \ Ya see, the Swoosh was not \u201Cobsolete,\u201D it was just \u201Cbuilt in\u201D\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-12 18:57:36'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> It failed because it screwed up the existing brand identity and the customers
    were really bent out of shape about it\r\n\r\nUnlike Coca Cola - nobody collects
    Kodak memorabelia. ;-) Or if they do it's not on the same scale. I agree Chris,
    Kodak has less to loose. ( Nice post BTW! ) But clearly they are bent on loosing
    what little they have. Perhaps they have marketing excecs from AT&T who are keen
    to rebrand every 2 years. Certainly they will need a new one soon enough! Sometimes
    I wonder if brands flirt with the idea because it will get press. When Nike pulled
    their swoosh for a while there were a ton of (free) news reports about it. "
  created: '2006-01-12 19:11:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Eben!\r\n\r\n\"When Nike pulled their swoosh for a while there were
    a ton of (free) news reports about it.\"\r\n\r\nYes, but no different sales than
    before. That kind of thing only works in desperation and can't be \"cried wolf\"
    too often. It is much more prevalent in the entertainment industry where Madonna
    and Brittney Spears did their little kiss thing to prop up their fading careers.
    The Superbowl halftime \"Peek-at-a-boob\" thing was more of the same, if you ask
    me.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-12 19:19:09'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Chris, definitely. Right right right & riiiight. The corallary being -  there
    is no substitute for solid stuff. If your taling logos or bubblegum pop.
  created: '2006-01-12 23:12:11'
- author:
    name: Riccardo Mori
    picture: 111126
  body: "I come late in the discussion. Firstly, hello everyone! I subscribed to Typophile
    a while ago and this is my first venture out of lurkland. I just wanted to post
    here something I said in another forum:\r\n\r\nThe old Kodak's logo has always
    looked more than just a logo, to me. It was a symbol. Recognisable everywhere
    in whatever form (on paper, on a package, in the form of a sticker attached to
    a shop window or door, or of an neon sign, and so on). Moreover, like someone
    else pointed out, recognisable at a distance, thanks to the graphics+colour mixture
    (which in some old logo variations are enough to identify \"Kodak\" even without
    the type). A powerful, ageless logo, if I may add.\r\n\r\nI agree with those who
    wondered about the need to change it altogether. My humble, perhaps na\xEFve opinion:
    with such a strong logo, Kodak could have done whatever it wanted and still be
    recognisable. I can't really see any such equation as\r\n\r\nold logo = \"analog\";
    new logo = \"digital\".\r\n\r\nWhat I do see, as a customer, as a man-of-the-street,
    is\r\n\r\nold logo = \"recognizability\"; new logo = \"anonymity\"\r\n\r\nIf Kodak
    wants to \"start over\" and is looking for some kind of anonymity to start with,
    then the new logo is absolutely successful.\r\n\r\nJust my visual feelings and
    my $0.02\r\n\r\nR.\r\n\r\n[Edited to add: I think the \"a\" in the new logo is
    awful. It sorts of scream \"wrong\" when I look at it. Perhaps it's its purpose,
    who knows...]"
  created: '2006-01-15 13:14:19'
- author:
    name: mimobase
    picture: 111163
  body: "What they did wrong was introduce a logo without application. It is all well
    and good to go... \"This is us now & here's our logo\". \r\n\r\nChanging a logo
    isn't the whole story to updating brand. When I look at the logo, yes it doesn't
    strike me as amazing or progressive, but I'm not completely going to write it
    off until I see it in application. How does it affect packaging, paper ads, TV
    ads, and web pages? \r\n\r\nWhat does this new brand stand for, what are its core
    elements? (Colours, photographic styles, variations for products and services)\r\n\r\nOr
    is it simply putting a skin over what Kodak means to millions of people.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I think Kodak the brand has previously built up in my mind from childhood that
    if I want to capture something great, unique or happy in my life, I should capture
    it as a \"Kodak Moment\" use their products & services to do this. \r\n\r\nIf
    the whole application of this new brand overtime reveals it to feel sterile and
    soulless isolating people from that original concept of the \u201CKodak moment\u201D
    ideology. Then yes, this branding exercise fails and at its core would be a very
    boring logo.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-16 02:16:45'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Kodak may not do it. The web site had not changed last time I looked. It
    would not be the 1st time a company changeed their mind mid-stream.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-16 06:48:08'
- author:
    name: shredder
  body: "i just don't like it me..\r\nthe 'a' looks like the 'd' was just squashed
    and the top pulled round to make it look like an 'a'.. what say you?\r\n\r\nshredder..
    \r\nnever ever bloody anything.. ever!"
  created: '2007-10-17 16:01:22'
- author:
    name: brockfrench
    picture: 113153
  body: "This is a disaster. Kodak has been dumbing down for years, so the fact that
    their logo is following suit comes as no surprise. There is a big difference between
    being approachable and being juvenile. Abandoning their identity to be 'friendly'
    & the way they entered the digital market really devalued the integrity of their
    products. I kind of liken them to the McDonald's of digital imaging...\r\n\r\nwow.
    old thread. I stand by what I've said though."
  created: '2007-10-17 21:37:52'
- author:
    name: keoxa
    picture: 113296
  body: "The US army dropped \"Be all you can be\", the most-widely known slogan in
    the world, for \"an army of one.\" Speaking of mcdonalds: they left \"we love
    to see you smile\" for \"i'm lovin' it.\"\r\n\r\nboth groups seem to be doing
    quite well, unfortunately."
  created: '2007-10-18 03:03:10'
- author:
    name: tiffbeaz
  body: Wow, I am posting this comment here... I need different original typefaces..
    Where can I find them?
  created: '2008-04-12 20:43:57'
date: '2006-01-07 21:10:04'
title: New Kodak Logo

---
