---
author:
  name: sebsan
  picture: 110914
body: "I have been working for a year in this design agency and we have never bougth
  a single font. We only use the old (I assume stolen) fonts on the company server.
  So, these old fonts are classics and still very good, but now and again a particular
  job comes along where you would like to splash out on a comtemporary design. This
  has been impossible so far since my boss refuses to buy fonts. Today I tricked him
  and used a screen shot of Neo Tech \u2014which I talked on this <a href=http://typophile.com/node/17149>thread</a>\u2014
  for the Identity of a new trade fair. He liked the font but he became very deffensive
  when I mentioned that he would have to buy the font if he wanted to use it for his
  client. We looked at the price on different font stores and I tried to ease out
  the pain by telling him that he should think of it as a long term investment. He
  keeps fighting back \u2014no! it's too expensive\u2014 I tell him \u2014it takes
  months somtimes years to make a good typefaces\u2014 I was gaining no ground. He
  says with renewed vigour \u2014no! it's too expensive, who buys these fonts anyway?\u2014
  I tell him \u2014this job needs new fonts, something different, modern, you are
  the one who always wants to make ground-breaking design!\u2014 I was using the oldest
  tricks to convince him. Then he said \u2014this family of fonts costs \u20AC429
  and it took the designer months to make, but a novelist might take even longer and
  he sells his book for only \u20AC20\u2014 I was silenced. What could I say to refute
  that? I had to agree with him and get along with my immense frustration. So please
  don't shoot me for asking you the exact same question because I am on your side.
  \r\n\r\nWhy does a family of fonts costs \u20AC429 when a novel only  costs \u20AC20"
comments:
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: 'A similar, previous discussion here: <a href="http://typophile.com/node/15647">http://typophile.com/node/15647</a>.'
  created: '2006-01-10 21:59:00'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'Okay first of all you aren''t buying a font. Its a license. Please read the
    End Users Agreement. The license is a one time cost and comparing that to a novel
    that cost a lot less per unit but sells a lot more units and in the end might
    make a lot more money. '
  created: '2006-01-10 22:01:04'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "This is an old, old discussion. This boss of yours has made up his mind and
    is a cheapskate. You might want to save your effort at trying to convince him.
    His resistance to spending money on useful tools is a symptom of a bigger problem.
    Someone who is a business advisor should be talking to him about how he runs the
    business. Design isn't some kind of dollars/kilos proposition; the work and the
    ideas give value to the product. I'm surprised he is so frightened of budgeting
    even modest amounts to support his business. \r\n\r\nThe novel is an end product
    that can't be repurposed infinitely for use in a million other ways. The type
    family is a TOOL that can be used for many, many purposes including logos, magazines,
    etc. A little like a laser printer. If your office gets a new laser printer or
    a new digital camera, who pays for it? Does your boss then have to reduce your
    pay because profit is lower? I think not. That's not business anymore. Tools,
    especially the proper ones, are part of running a business. If your boss really
    wants you to do \"cutting edge\" work, then he should have the clients pay for
    new fonts, or at least partial costs. Since you will use the fonts a lot over
    the years, each client can pay a small amount of the cost, like how large equipment
    gets expensed over several years.\r\n\r\nWhere does this person think Garamond,
    Helvetica, Caslon and Gill Sans came from? "
  created: '2006-01-10 22:14:12'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "\"A book is a book is a book. But a good plate of spaghetti is another thing\"
    \r\n-Neapolitan proverb\r\n\r\nThe font costs more than a book because the font
    is a tool that can increase your billings. The font will enable your boss and
    you to perhaps design in a more contemporary style and hence, charge more for
    your work."
  created: '2006-01-10 22:20:21'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: It reminds me of a song from the end of the Vietnam error. I came home from
    Vietnam and I saw my wife with a new baby boy Benny and when I asked her where
    did Benny come from she said "Bennys from heaven" (Sung to Pennys from Heaven).
    "Benny must be from heaven because he sure isn't from me". Hey Garamond, Helvetica,
    Caslon and Gill came from heaven.
  created: '2006-01-10 22:25:20'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> Don't shoot me!\r\n\r\nOK. Where's your boss?"
  created: '2006-01-10 22:30:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Just as we must license/purchase software, we must license/purchase fonts.
    One thing you boss is missing, and has been mentioned already, is the fact that
    once you license this typeface family you will have it to use again and again
    ... just like any other software/tool. It is a difficult thing to have a boss
    like yours. I feel for you. \r\n\r\nHow many typefaces/weights come with the package?
    What is the math per typeface?"
  created: '2006-01-10 23:02:01'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: You should give him numbers for the cost of type back in the day compared
    to today. I'm sure it would blow him away. Maybe convincing. Make the human connection
    too. Think about all the poor type designers starving on the street.
  created: '2006-01-11 00:00:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "If you boss doesn't want to pay for the font license, find someone who already
    owns a license and pay that person to do the typesetting for you. This is how
    it always used to be done: the design company spec'd the job and the typesetter
    set it. It remains an option.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime, Sebastien, I suggest typesetting
    your CV and looking for another employer."
  created: '2006-01-11 00:27:03'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "On your next design comp use your own handwriting. It will either:\r\n\r\na)
    Upset him because you're being insubordinate (or cheeky, if you are in the UK).\r\nb)
    Delight him because you're being so frugal.\r\nc) Cause him to reflect on what
    nice handwriting you have.\r\n\r\nAnd of course it will: \r\nd) Give you some
    fresh visuals to work with.\r\ne) Make you feel better that you're not using unlicensed
    fonts.\r\n\r\nBest of luck. I would give up on the boss... This employer is not
    helping you do your best work, nor is he helping his clients. Finding another
    employer is your next best step.\r\n\r\n[Edit: Geez, that last bit reads like
    some lame horoscope. Sorry for that. Cheers.]"
  created: '2006-01-11 00:50:24'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<cite>Finding another employer is your next best step.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    about sums it up in an ideal world. :-)"
  created: '2006-01-11 01:07:19'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "It's perplexing and frustrating when people of certain mind set believe there
    is NO and should be NO VALUE associated with type, whether it be voiced by the
    general public, an unmovable business owner, and, oh yes... even graphic designers!\r\n\r\nHours
    earlier today I fired back volleys to a designer who felt (or was feigning to
    feel) that ALL FONTS should be available for FREE!\r\nUnbelievable. So I reproached
    him with basic logic and upheld the values of intellectual property, other creatives
    who make money for what the do, etc. \r\n\r\nBut as Carl mentioned above, at a
    certain point it's not worth the effort. If these people pay sh*t for effort,
    then they can eat sh*t as well. Deep down, some people enjoy being thieves.\r\n\r\n<em>Excerpted
    from DesignTalkBoard.com, a small design forum I haunt to understand different
    segments of our \"type buying\" public</em>:\r\n\r\n<strong>Re: free fonts</strong>\r\n\xAB
    Reply to this topic #21 on: 9 Jan 06 \xBB by JianSabu \r\nQuote from: jchrome
    on  8 Jan 06\r\n<em>I think all fonts should be free, but that's just my .02 -
    I don't expect many to agree with that.</em>\r\n\r\nIn that case, why shouldn't
    a logo design using only type, or producing prepress files for a newsletter be
    offered free to a client as well?\r\n\r\nDo you really think your time and creativity
    is any more valuable than a type designer's? How about using photography or calligraphy
    in your graphic design project... should you be able to use the photographer's
    or calligrapher's work in your project for free?\r\n\r\nThe problem concerning
    the \"value\" of fonts (a software file or mechanical object that can be used
    to produce type output) is that since the advent of \"desktop publishing\" and
    personal computers that are used for creating graphical files, fonts have been
    made readily available (bundled with the computer or bundled with software packages
    such as Adobe's \"InDesign\").\r\n\r\nAlso, the software tools to produce usable
    font files are also readily available and much easier to use than when the first
    PostScript fonts were produced for the Macintosh. Novice and amatuer \"type designers\"
    generally distribute their type fonts for free or on a shareware basis while improving
    the quality of the outline data, spacing and kerning tables, so eventually they
    can meet the quality standards of font distributors like \"MyFonts.com\".\r\n\r\nAnother
    MAJOR problem  is that a very well designed typeface by a well know type designer
    (like Matthew Carter or Ed Benguiat) can be easily copied nowadays (as with the
    music industry where song writers and performers work are constantly being ripped
    off). Just because fonts are easy to duplicate, slightly modified and re-issued
    doesn't make the original LESS VALUABLE, just like music or movies.\r\n\r\nThere
    really isn't any argument or justification for thinking ALL FONTS should be free,
    anymore than ALL MUSIC or MOVIES should be available for free just because you
    can download it (from an illegal source). I agree that it is very hard for most
    people to recognize if a typeface is from an original or licensed source as opposed
    to a non-licensed rip-off. That's why some of us try to be helpful by suggesting
    reputable sources for Free and Shareware fonts listed earlier in this thread.\r\n\r\nFreeware
    and shareware are fine and OK, so if you don't want to pay for fonts stick to
    the reputable distributors PLEASE. Thank you.\r\n\r\nNorbert \r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------------------------\r\n
    \ <strong>Re: free fonts</strong>\r\n\xAB Reply to this topic #22 on: 10 Jan 06
    \xBB by jchrome \r\n<em>Quote from: JianSabu on  9 Jan 06\r\nWaaaaa! Waaaa!</em>\r\n\r\nRegretably
    I have neither the time to explain my position, nor the inclination. That is why
    my original statement ended with \"that is my $.02 - I don't expect anyone to
    agree with me\".\r\n\r\nAnd yes, music and movies in encoded (lossy) formats should
    be free as well. The same goes for Open Source applications and Operating Systems.
    But I imagine forward-thinking sentiments such as those are light-years beyond
    you, padawan. =) \r\n\r\n----------------------------------------------------------------------\r\n
    \ <strong>Re: free fonts</strong>\r\n\xAB Reply to this topic #23 on: 10 Jan 06
    \xBB by JianSabu \r\nThen you obviously don't believe in protection of intellectual
    property as you may not have any intellectual property to protect.\r\n\r\nWith
    that I will return to my mountain temple in Tibet, where I live in an alternate
    yet perfectly beautiful universe where no one steals another's idea. They all
    float free as collective knowledge. \r\n \r\n"
  created: '2006-01-11 03:37:57'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Everything should be free! Fonts, rent, food, clothes, gas, airplane tickets,
    everything. When everything else is free, I'll offer my fonts for free. Until
    then...
  created: '2006-01-11 05:01:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Why does a family of fonts costs \u20AC429 when a novel only costs \u20AC20</em>\r\n\r\nBundling.\r\nIf
    people had to buy the fonts they used, rather than get them free from Microsoft,
    Apple, and Adobe, with operating systems and layout applications, there would
    be a mass market for fonts.\r\nIn that case, a successful typeface might sell
    thousands, rather than hundreds, and independent foundries could afford to drop
    the price accordingly.\r\n\r\nSo, rather than benefit people like your boss, free
    bundled fonts have priced interesting new fonts out of his reach."
  created: '2006-01-11 07:34:47'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>This boss of yours has made up his mind and is a cheapskate.</cite>\r\n\r\nNo,
    this boss of yours is a <em>thief</em>.\r\nHe has stolen other peoples\u2019 intellectual
    property if he is using fonts without ever having paid a license for any of them.
    And he is selling the work he does with those stolen fonts for money, making him
    a double-faced crook at that. What if his clients didn\u2019t pay him? Or told
    him that they can get free templates with their desktop publishing software, so
    why should they pay for graphic design?\r\n\r\nI cannot believe we\u2019re even
    seriously discussing such an issue of obvious criminal behaviour, of someone in
    our business ripping off his colleagues. This is not a poor student, nor an ignorant
    housewife. This is someone who makes money from selling intellectual property
    himself.\r\n\r\nGo wipe the data off all his hard drives and get another job."
  created: '2006-01-11 07:51:23'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Kudo's to Erik
  created: '2006-01-11 08:12:55'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.fast.org.uk/\r\n\r\nI don't know if there is a similar body that
    covers all EU countries or one specific to Belgium, if there is you could try
    them just prior to following most* of Erik's advice.\r\n\r\n* leave the evidence\r\n\r\nTim\r\n\r\nBelow
    is an extract from the FAST site\r\nIgnore Font Licensing At Your Peril\r\nWarning
    issued by the Federation Against Software Theft and font foundries\r\n\r\nAvoiding
    font licence management issues can incur serious legal implications, according
    to the Federation Against Software Theft's (The Federation) Font Software Group
    (FSG). If an organisation's software audit excludes fonts then it may not be fully
    compliant and if that is the case that organisation faces legal liability. \r\n\r\nEven
    if an audit does include fonts then on-going compliance cannot be guaranteed:
    the ease with which fonts can be downloaded or copied means regular auditing is
    essential.\r\n\r\nJohn Lovelock, Director General of The Federation, said: \"What
    companies forget is that fonts are supplied under terms (of the software application
    licence) For instance, most fonts are licensed for installation on five workstations,
    but like application software some are only allowed to be installed on one workstation.
    If companies are not considering the number of users that need the font when purchasing
    they are likely to be underlicensed.\r\nAlso, many companies do not realise that
    permitted use can vary from font to font, even in major operating systems. Choosing
    a font with restricted usage terms can spell trouble. \r\n\r\n\xECThis is a huge
    issue, but most corporates are unaware that it even exists. Corporate end users
    must understand the gravity of font software theft,\xEE he added. \r\n\r\n\"Corporate
    directors be warned \xF1 to achieve software compliance the issue of fonts cannot
    be ignored. In our experience most organisations are not even aware that fonts
    have to be audited in exactly the same way as other software.\""
  created: '2006-01-11 11:16:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "<em>Why does a family of fonts costs \u20AC429 when a novel only costs \u20AC20</em>\r\n\r\nPotential
    copies sold and the competitive market. His comparison is irrelevant. If there
    were a few hundred novelists in the world, only a handful of which were writing
    decent novels that sold only a few hundred copies, they'd be priced differently.
    The time it takes to make them is irrelevant. How long does it take him to design
    a brochure? How much does he make on it?\r\n\r\nI agree with Erik. I can't believe
    a designer at that level would behave that way, legally or ethically. Don't let
    it go. Maybe not with this project, but in general. Also, if he's emailed you
    about this, then he's created a record of illegal activities on his own server."
  created: '2006-01-11 12:40:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "The FAST.org organization brings to mind <a href=\"http://www.ascap.com/about/\">ASCAP</a>,
    which monitors the playing of recorded songs, and insures that royalties are collected
    and paid to song writers and publishers. They do this by sampling of radio stations
    etc.\r\n\r\nWould it be worth the while for the large founderies such as Adobe,
    Linotype, Monotype, Fontfont, etc., joined by others, to establish a similar organization,
    and hire one or two two people to randomly check advertising etc. and follow up
    to see that fonts have been properly licensed? \r\n\r\nOr such an organization
    might be created by ATypI, with charges to founderies according to size to fund
    the (small) staff. ASCAP is I believe supported by membership fees of both individual
    songwriters and publishers. An independent organization might also be possible.
    Of course, the number involved in the music industry is in the hundreds of thousands,
    rather than thousands, so it would be on a different scale.  \r\n\r\nThe point
    is that if advertising and other firms know there is a random check going on,
    and possible embarassment or even prosecution, then even if the chances of being
    caught are small, it might greatly increase the level of compliance with EULAs.
    \r\n\r\nMy observation is that firms are dead scared of being involved in lawsuits,
    so the motivating influence of the organization and its first prosecution of a
    corporate miscreant might be huge, and make a significant dent in piracy. \r\n\r\nI
    know that the effort to have control of foundries stealing from each other flopped
    long ago, with the infamous incident of the blatent piracy and resale of Hermann
    Zapf's Palatino, but this would be different. An effort not at policing one another,
    but at catching and (rarely) prosecuting user font pirates. Of course this might
    indirectly put pressure on foundries--or even directly if the organization includes
    monitoring these.  \r\n\r\nHas this idea been explored by any foundry, or ATypI
    or other type organization?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-11 13:09:39'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Maybe and its only a maybe if you broke down the cost of the license per weight,
    it might seem more reasonable to your boss. If you pose it like buying a bottle
    of wine, well thats expensive, but when its posed as a case of wine, well thats
    reasonable. This is just a tactic you might take.
  created: '2006-01-11 13:54:15'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "William, \r\nThis is from Monotype's site \u2013 \r\n(I don't know whether
    they have a detection operation, maybe somebody who works for one of the foundries
    knows, but a well advertised operation with one or two high profile prosecutions
    would certainly give some MDs cause for consideration.)\r\n\r\nThe Federation
    Against Software Theft operates a Font Software Group which strives to raise awareness
    of fonts as intellectual property and licensable software.\r\n\r\nThe group offers
    free, impartial information and advice to individuals, companies and organisations
    on the subject of font licensing including risk assessment.\r\n\r\nMembers\r\n\r\nCreative
    Publishing Solutions\r\nCompliant UK\r\nDalton Maag\r\nDevice Fonts\r\nFont Bureau\r\nFontsmith\r\nFontware\r\nITC\r\nJeremy
    Tankard Designs Ltd.\r\nMonotype\r\nNeufville Digital\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-01-11 14:24:32'
- author:
    name: aluminum
    picture: 110335
  body: "What kind of design agency doesn't budget for design tools like typography?\r\n\r\nSeems
    like it might be time to shop the ol' resume around ;o)\r\n\r\nAnother option,
    have the client buy the typeface. That won't help you with getting more faces,
    but at least you've gotten a better product to the client.\r\n\r\n\"Would it be
    worth the while for the large founderies such as Adobe, Linotype, Monotype, Fontfont,
    etc., joined by others, to establish a similar organization, and hire one or two
    two people to randomly check advertising etc. and follow up to see that fonts
    have been properly licensed?\"\r\n\r\nI'd say no. Smells an awful lot like RIAA
    type thinking. Treating your potential customers as guilty until proven innocent
    is a risky business model and can often destroy any sympathety you might have
    had.\r\n\r\nI'd say price your product so it's sellable and give the end user
    a license that appeals to them. Ignore the illegal copies and focus on the ones
    people pay for. Those are your customers. Spend your efforts on catering to them.\r\n\r\n\"The
    point is that if advertising and other firms know there is a random check going
    on, and possible embarassment or even prosecution, then even if the chances of
    being caught are small, it might greatly increase the level of compliance with
    EULAs.\"\r\n\r\nHas RIAA lawsuites decreased file sharing? Have sappy 'please
    don't steal this movie' ads decreased asian DVD piracy? Have software registration
    hoops stopped casual software piracy? Have any of these tactics costs these industries
    money to implement? ;o)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-11 16:39:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Has RIAA lawsuites decreased file sharing?\r\n\r\nI don't know--it may be
    that it has had some success. But the RIAA is not the analogous organization;
    it is ASCAP, which does work in getting songwriters paid royalties, so far as
    I know. (There is another similar organization, I believe, BMI).  RIAA's questionable
    effectiveness is going after those who file share without making money from it,
    whereas ASCAP deals exclusively with businesses. It's a different model. What
    I am suggesting would not be going after scrapbookers who use pirated fonts, but
    rather businesses who make money from using them.  This is a different animal.
    \r\n\r\nI got this idea because of timd's information about the FAST organization,
    and Yves Peters' talk at TypCon laying out his courageous detective work on some
    corporate piracy issues. "
  created: '2006-01-11 17:07:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "While I would agree with Erik if Sebastien's company is indeed using pirated
    fonts, this may not be the case. I have acquired a substantial library of \"old
    font classics\" (at no cost) over the past 15 years -- quite enough to run a design
    practice -- merely by licensing and upgrading the major tools of the trade, Adobe's
    Photoshop, Illustrator, and more recently InDesign.    \r\n\r\nWe don't have an
    ASCAP kind of organization in the type business.\r\nOrganizations such as ATypI
    and SOTA do not fully represent the interests of type designers and independent
    foundries, because their boards represent a variety of stakeholders, including
    those whose financial interests in fonts are quite different -- eg Microsoft,
    Adobe, and Apple, the font bundlers. "
  created: '2006-01-11 18:16:36'
- author:
    name: basicframework
    picture: 110916
  body: "I can only hope that increased knowledge on type and typographic issues helps
    change attitudes. \r\n\r\nI *used to* work at a design firm that was not unlike
    Sebastien's -- there was a big server from which fonts were used, but no one was
    really ever sure where that type came from. Some designers would join the firm
    for a time, bring their own fonts, and then leave them behind when they quit.
    I spent a fair amount of time trying to audit the server and determine what files
    were legit, but it was too difficult. \r\n\r\nIn the end, the company opted to
    back up the fonts (should they been needed for reprinting past projects), wipe
    the drive, and purchase the Adobe collection -- providing them with all the nice,
    safe classics.\r\n\r\nThe flip side was that for a long time afterward, it was
    felt by management that there were now enough legit fonts for the design staff
    to use that there was no future budget for type built into projects going forward.
    And so many, many a project relied on that Adobe library, and for all I know,
    they still do.\r\n\r\nNot the most popular suggestion, I'm sure, but Sebastian
    might start instead trying to convince his boss to purchase a small type collection
    of classics as this company did, and then try to build a type budget into future
    projects."
  created: '2006-01-11 18:22:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">their boards represent a variety of stakeholders, including those whose
    financial interests in fonts are quite different\r\n\r\nWell ASCAP has both publishers
    and composers in it. I suppose that is because both have royalties to split from
    the same broadcast event. In this respect it seems to me type designers and foundries
    are in a similar situation. \r\n\r\nMicrosoft doesn't sell fonts, so they wouldn't
    be a logical part of such an organization. Adobe does bundle, but they sell a
    lot of other fonts, so I don't see why their interest would be at all opposed
    to a monitor of publications to see that font rights are being observed.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, the big difference from ASCAP is that neither foundries nor designers
    are paid for each public use of their work, so the monitoring will be to catch
    piracy rather than insure correct payment for each use. \r\n\r\nA real conflict
    might arise if the foundries were also magazine publishers or ad agencies or such,
    but this is not the case. \r\n\r\nSo it still seems to me so far a viable idea,
    if the finances of it seem good to those with the most money and most to gain,
    namely the larger foundries. \r\n\r\nI heard Bruno Steinhardt of Linotype at Typotechnica
    saying piracy was a major issue facing the industry, and above we see Erik Spiekermann
    of Fontfont and Fontshop also passionate about the issue. So do they think it
    is worth 'putting their money where their mouth is?' Small foundries could join
    for less and have use of their fonts also monitored. "
  created: '2006-01-11 18:51:47'
date: '2006-01-10 21:51:52'
node_type: forum
title: Don't shoot me!

---
