---
author:
  name: famous
body: Hey, does anyone have or know where i can get a cool graffiti font. i am using
  it to make a signature. if someone has one previously made, or knows where to get
  one it would be greatly appreciated
comments:
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "If all you need to make is a signature, why not hand draw it. You could then
    customize the letters and how they fit together and it would better simulate real
    graffiti.\r\n\r\nHowever, in case you don't want to do that, why not try \r\nhttp://www.graffitifonts.com/
    \r\n\r\nor http://www.graffitifonts.net/\r\n\r\nor http://www.b-boys.com/graffitifonts.html\r\n\r\nGoogle:
    graffiti fonts. There are many more sites than the three I linked to above. You'll
    also find stuff at myfonts:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/search?search%5Btext%5D=graffiti\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-11 02:31:04'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: There's not a single graffiti font on the market that will make you look authentic.
  created: '2006-01-11 02:34:48'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "a ) Lettering, of course\r\n\r\nb ) If hand drawn, custom 'Lettering' is
    not an option, you may like some of those 'fancy' OpenType <em>( Alternates, Ligatures,
    Things like that )</em> based graffiti lettering types, like '<a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/fonts/49.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">Owned</a>' or '<a href=\"http://www.typodermic.com/fonts/27.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">Funboy</a>', by Ray Larabie\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2006-01-11 04:58:04'
- author:
    name: karmachameleon
    picture: 109573
  body: "That is not possible to do with a font. Only a graffiti artist can make something
    look and feel like a tag. (And maybe a verry skilled copycat. ;))\r\n_______________________________\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.dnevnikeklektika.com\">Dnevnik eklektika</a>"
  created: '2006-01-16 14:35:33'
- author:
    name: SF
    picture: 111253
  body: "www.sfaustina.com\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\npss. look for my new graffiti font tutorial
    in the next Computer Arts magazine.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-16 23:58:56'
- author:
    name: Wes W
  body: "yes, unfortunately there are no real authentic graff fonts online. In the
    near future, a foundry called HandSelecta will be releasing some standardized
    legitimate fonts created by well established practitioners. the current sites
    and free fonts out there are not very authentic. Most take too many different
    elements form too many differnt regional styles and mix them into one disfunctional
    alphabet. \r\n\r\nI hear Stephen Coles knows a graff writer that creates authentic
    graff logos if the job is legit and is not trying to exploit or downplay the artform.\r\n\r\nI
    strongly discourage attempting to mimic graff from looking at...it is like trying
    to learn hand lettering from looking at Zapfino.\r\n\r\nSF: I've seen your mag
    before and your brushes are pretty cool. Thanks for keepin the zine free for the
    public."
  created: '2006-01-17 17:30:31'
- author:
    name: SF
    picture: 111253
  body: "Thanks Wes!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-17 20:10:51'
- author:
    name: karmachameleon
    picture: 109573
  body: "@sf:\r\nI apologize, what I meant to say is: <cite>\"I haven't seen any authentic
    graffiti fonts that could be used for something\"</cite>. The real problem I see
    here is that as soon as graphic designers think \"graffiti\" they think mid 80's
    or pure american graffiti style. This is a harsh generalization, I know, but sadly
    it is so in most cases. \r\n\r\nI on the other hand in my writing have always
    aiming for that euro look. For example look at graffiti from eastern europe, Czech,
    Slovakian (these guys are crazy), even France. Of course Berlin is another story
    altogether, although influenced heavilly with Czech styles it is beautiful in
    it's own rigid simplicity and sometimes nihilistic creative freedom. (Note: I
    am talking mostly about the street and train scene here. Guys like SCAR, DSF crew,
    MrX, and of course SEKT).\r\n\r\nI find american styles too boring and repetative
    (NY scene especially), this is more my thing.\r\n\r\nWheeew, I have written a
    ffff essay... :)\r\n_______________________________\r\n<a href=\"http://www.dnevnikeklektika.com\">Dnevnik
    eklektika</a>"
  created: '2006-01-18 22:36:24'
- author:
    name: Wes W
  body: "Karma: You brought up a very interesting topic. Not only do handstyles (tags)
    have regional differences, but also internationally. The same goes for throw-ups
    (bubbly constructed letters) and Style writin (wildstyle). \r\n\r\nFor years,
    Europe had a totally different aesthetic to their hands. As an American, it seemed
    like Europeans have more asymmetrical compositions. In America, the beginners
    are usually the ones experimenting with asymmetrical forms, then eventually find
    a consistancy in their tag. Early on, I felt as if the ideas on balance and composition
    that Americans preserved were lost in translation when it spread to Europe. I'm
    not tryin to downplay the whole continent, actually I feel that the experimentation
    done in Europe brought forth loads of techniques which spread worldwide, and I've
    always been inspired by their color schemes. \r\n\r\nAlthough a majority of European
    signature forms are not very accepted by American graff writers, I personally
    like to see the work being done there. The one writer in particular that I enjoy
    seeing is \"Bean.\"\r\n\r\nMaybe your boredom is driven by the lack of knowledge
    with American hands? Where I'm from, there is a greater attention to the execution.
    We hold our markers consistently so that the letters are even and fit within the
    style family. We pay close attention to the amount of negative spacing within
    each individual letter. People here are very specific with tight letterspacing,
    creating a darker \"color\" of the total composition... drawing the eye towards
    the signature. American graffiti styles have been refined for decades, and are
    continuing to pull from outside sources. For example, in LA, writers are integrating
    Blackletter and existing shapes into a hybrid style. Every city has a different
    aesthetic, and with each new king comes new trends in forms.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ve
    always wondered why there is a big difference between the tastes of graff writers
    in different countries. Maybe its driven by language and pronunciation of words?
    We should start a new thread to discuss this. Soon we might even get Brazilian
    writers in here saying the same for their styles.\r\n\r\n...Getting back on topic.
    if you want REAL graffiti lettering, find a real writer who\u2019s been out there
    for a few years. Having a \"field tested\" style will assure your authenticity
    in the culture you are designing for. (sorry for the babble)\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-19 01:57:51'
- author:
    name: SF
    picture: 111253
  body: "karma/Wes\r\n\r\nYou both have valid points.\r\nI like both the american
    and euro forms of graffiti...really all forms of graffiti.\r\n\r\nBut for me it
    comes down to a distinct style/form of graffiti letters that i prefer.\r\nThe
    throw up or bubble letters... this can be seen in both euro or american graffiti.\r\nThis
    is a important aspect, it's sorta like the serif and san serif. (another topic)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-19 07:41:54'
- author:
    name: karmachameleon
    picture: 109573
  body: "<cite>\"For years, Europe had a totally different aesthetic to their hands.
    As an American, it seemed like Europeans have more asymmetrical compositions.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    is true 100%.\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Where I\u2019m from, there is a greater attention
    to the execution.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is also correct, but what I consider execution
    is the can control and both line and filling techniques, and on the other hand
    you have the styles that are soooo different (USA vs. EUROPE). The reason I said
    I find USA styles boring is because writers tend to \"find the golden combination\"
    and make as if it is written in stone, they get so repeatative and obsessive over
    it that it looses all it's fun, and that is where I think it gets it's rivalry
    moment. In europe we don't have rivalry and \"biting hate\", just because I think
    european writers leave a lot to experiment and viewers interpretation. Then again,
    everything came from USA and there is no disputing that.\r\n\r\nOne has to have
    respect for the originators of the game, and has to study the original styles
    in order to bring something fresh to the table. It's the same as anywhere else.
    <strong>Know your roots, know why you are doing it, give respect and get it back.</strong>\r\n\r\n_______________________________\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.dnevnikeklektika.com\">Dnevnik eklektika</a>"
  created: '2006-01-19 09:50:24'
- author:
    name: Wes W
  body: "SF:\r\n<i>\"Its like anything else, different regions have there own style.
    just like speech accents.\"</i>\r\n\r\n Yes I understand this, but I'd like to
    search for the deeper reason. For example, San Francisco has a tradition of <i>bus
    hopper</i> style. Forms flow consistently and utilize curves for speed. Elements
    like hills posed interesting time constraints with the possibility of sloppy execution.
    Each letter is connected at the cap versus the baseline because you are usually
    writing on windows, above seated passengers. \r\n\r\n<i>\"Like colors, euro style
    are have more colors, They have had more color paint options. And another huge
    issue is your physical surroundings.\"</i> \r\n\r\nI cut out my comment regarding
    this earlier cause it was becoming an essay. I think a strange factor is the existence
    of paint made specifically for the aerosol artist. I'm not sure exactly when these
    hit Europe, but these brands have been very popular here lately. With various
    tips (spray nozzles) and air pressures at your disposal, a wide range of line
    weights, fades, narrowing effects and even chisel-esque styles could be achieved.
    There must have been writers giving input when it came to developing these tools,
    which benefited specific styles.\r\n\r\nKarma:\r\n<i>\"they get so repetitive
    and obsessive over it that it looses all it\u2019s fun,\"</i>\r\n\r\nI definitely
    understand where you are coming from, yet I think in this case the joy level of
    marking surfaces depends on the person. People fall into their comfort zones,
    being able to create similar forms of (wild)style to get recognition. Out here,
    some people love the quantity just as much as we love the quality.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-19 10:55:37'
- author:
    name: c_acker
    picture: 110528
  body: "Regarding Bushop Style: I recently learned in an interview with a writer
    from Seattle who spent some time in SF (and haven't yet confirmed from native
    SF writers) that The BUSHOP style was originated by Latin-American writers who
    by practice would ride bicycles around SF. One guy would jump out into traffic
    stopping a bus while several would tag the exterrior of the bus in a quick and
    dramatic attack, utilizing a very fast and fluid one liner style of script, then
    escape on their bikes. Confirmation or disputing stories would be appreciated.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.handselecta.com/
    is now officially live (but beta) and will be providing fonts for retail sale
    based upon the handstyles of graffiti writing collaborators. For those who know
    the names we're dropping... Our first stable of fonts are by JOKER, MENE, MESH,
    MESK, and SABE, and we are in the process of working on future fonts with CEASR,
    CLARK, ESPO, FREEDOM, GIANT, RUST, STAB, SPARK, SP ONE, and TEST.\r\n\r\nWe are
    dedicating ourselves to learning about the geographic developments of style, specifically
    tagging, not yet pieces or throwups as tagging relates more closely to calligraphy
    and hence to type design (I know this is debatable amongst some of you typophiles).
    \r\n\r\nWe are a NYC based opeartion and while we are mostly working with American
    artists at the moment, we are certainly aware of the developments in this artform
    happening on the international scene and if there is an indigenous style to the
    graffiti from where you are from please let us know. We are doing our best to
    write each chapter of the story representing all indigenous styles and developments
    as it has never been done before."
  created: '2006-01-19 16:58:28'
- author:
    name: Kyle Talbott
    picture: 110077
  body: "Old fart writer here. \r\n\r\nThanks Wes for the tip off. <a href=\"http://www.handselecta.com\">HANDSELECTA</a>
    is rumoured to be live. SFaustina creates beautiful work\u2014all dirty and nasty,
    like climbing onto filthy dumpsters over bums to get to the perfect rooftop. SF,
    I love <a href=\"http://www.bloodwarsmagazine.com/\">Bloodwars</a>. I've got all
    your brushes and free fonts. Please don't stop. \r\n\r\nSF, congratulations on
    the Computer Arts article. I look fwd to reading it. I haven't picked up the publication
    in years but your article is the perfect reason to pick it up again. BTW, did
    you tell the readers that they should rack all their supplies, spend years on
    the streets getting in and out of trouble, do their homework like KRS, and then
    sit back to digest it all before trying to create graffiti-inspired fonts?\r\n\r\nOK,
    I'll say it... just for the hate of it. Euro handstyles are wack. Phet was cool,
    Shoe as well. Mode2 cleared the house with scripts and the human form (heck...
    letters as well). Earl's scripts are nice, very American. O'clock managed to rock
    a few trains in NYC that ran, well, at least I saw them...\r\n\r\nOK, now that
    I've got your attention, let me clarify. \r\n\r\nI'm from DC. The styles there
    are not superlative as well. The writers I worked with worked very hard on developing
    a distinctive style. That took time. Did we succeed? I dunno. There are still
    some records of our attempts. The rest are buffed, dissed, lost or in some other
    state... at best the records are kept and the original inspiration is passed on
    for new kids to explore.\r\n\r\nHistorically and globally, the creatives that
    stand out have one of the three elements: good mentorship, hard research, or serious
    drive. You can't get better without any of them and it's best if you have a combo
    of two, or all three. Usually, one precipitates the others and draws the remaining
    elements towards itself.\r\n\r\nSo what...\r\n\r\nWell, getting back to throwing
    rocks accross the pond. Boy George above is spot on. It's not that beneficial
    to hate on Europe or the States. The working conditions are completely different,
    the histories are different. It doesn't stop there. The audiences are different
    with different responses (there used to be less tension in europe towards graff).
    The modes of graff are different as well. Most kids who write in the States aren't
    slapping up stickers as their main mode of getting up. The streets are too key'd
    up for that. Americans on a whole are more angry\u2013so I'll make a leap and
    say that there's more aggressive bombing here in the States. \r\n\r\nEurope, much
    like DC and other cities (SF included) didn't have the history, communal knowledge
    and mentorship like Philly and NYC so we were left behind during the first decade
    of graffiti. It took a lot of dedicated writers both overseas and in the 2nd and
    3rd wave cities (in the USA) to understand the foundations of graffiti: letterforms,
    quick footing, big mouths and technique.\r\n\r\nSo what? Why all the talk on Typophile?\r\n\r\nGraffiti
    inspired fonts are an experiment. They are a hope and vision that has yet to be
    fully achieved. I believe that <a href=\"http://www.handselecta.com\">HANDSELECTA</a>
    is doing a very good job persuing that hope. Check it out. It may help the dialogue.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    this is not shameless self promotion. <a href=\"http://www.adnauseum.net\">Christian
    Acker</a> is the heavy hitter behind HS. I'm just the cheerleader and co-founder
    emmeritus.\r\n\r\nAnd Wes, when is the magazine coming out?"
  created: '2006-01-19 17:11:52'
- author:
    name: SF
    picture: 111253
  body: .
  created: '2006-01-19 19:19:10'
- author:
    name: SF
    picture: 111253
  body: .
  created: '2006-01-19 19:20:16'
- author:
    name: c_acker
    picture: 110528
  body: "SFaustina, thank you for your kind words. I'll be in touch.\r\n\r\nAs requested,
    here are some links to my handstyle photo collection: http://www.handselecta.com/handstyles_1.html\r\n\r\nAnd
    here are some samples of Handselecta's first releases:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/item1.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Joker_lt_reg3.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MeneMex_reg3.gif]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Sabe_reg3.gif]"
  created: '2006-01-19 19:33:47'
- author:
    name: Kyle Talbott
    picture: 110077
  body: "Hey SF, I'm not recommending that one break the law either, remember\u2014I
    said I was the old fart\u2014I'm just being honest about the climate that comes
    with graffiti."
  created: '2006-01-19 19:46:52'
- author:
    name: Wes W
  body: "Said it before and I'll say it again...The Joker font is Very slick.\r\n\r\nKyle:\r\n\"And
    Wes, when is the magazine coming out?\"\r\n\r\nI'm working on an article discussing
    graffiti and type for Font Magazine, soon to be released. We've covered our bases
    getting information from IGT (phase2), Freedom, Stan 153, Crayone, Mare 139, Rime,
    Handselecta, and even Christian Schwartz. Ian Lynam, a very talented designer,
    typographer, and writer (in more ways than one) is putting his finishing touch
    on the essay.\r\n\r\nOnline teaser coming soon!"
  created: '2006-01-19 20:29:33'
- author:
    name: SF
    picture: 111253
  body: "Kyle...haha. no i understand. its a basic rule of graffiti. like rule no.
    2.\r\n\r\nacker that mexicali font is really nice. ya give me a email we can talk.\r\n\r\nwes.
    that sounds great please post that teaser. FONTSHOP!\r\nI cought a tag on there
    door ( a long time back ) sorry. :)\r\nIan Lynam has some great work.\r\n\r\nbest\r\nsf"
  created: '2006-01-19 22:30:59'
- author:
    name: Kyle Talbott
    picture: 110077
  body: "Wes- I'm just busting your chops. Christian and I are looking fwd to it.
    \ Rime, Phase 2, ahhh some of my favorites. Please tell Ian that I am patiently
    waiting for the release of Cooper Black Swash.:)\r\n\r\nSF- Thanks for linking
    up the phone wallpapers. I've found a link for Vulcan. Glad to hear that he's
    still in the game. I'm very curious to see what he's doing as he was a major influence
    in my art."
  created: '2006-01-20 01:49:13'
- author:
    name: Wes W
  body: "SF: \r\nNo worries. The tags always pile up on our doorway. Mostly stickers
    and toy hands. However I did catch a new Amaze next door from late last year.\r\n\r\nI'll
    definately keep you posted on the teaser info.\r\n\r\nKyle: \r\nRime's stuff is
    real interesting...we also covered his \"new\" project.\r\n\r\nhows that for a
    teaser of a teaser?"
  created: '2006-01-20 01:54:30'
- author:
    name: Kyle Talbott
    picture: 110077
  body: I am pleased to be teased.
  created: '2006-01-20 05:41:00'
- author:
    name: ilynam
    picture: 111282
  body: 'My 2 cents: RACK EVERYTHING.'
  created: '2006-01-21 00:46:27'
- author:
    name: SF
    picture: 111253
  body: "heres peak at KEPTONE.\r\nthis font is completed but not released yet.\r\n\r\nbest\r\ns\r\nf\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/k1.jpg]"
  created: '2006-01-23 08:15:45'
- author:
    name: Wes W
  body: "hmmm...maybe some regulation and metrics work will help\r\n\r\nKept kil.kyt???"
  created: '2006-01-24 19:00:06'
- author:
    name: SF
    picture: 111253
  body: We are savage
  created: '2006-01-25 03:29:01'
- author:
    name: Wes W
  body: "regulating certain glyphs will create a cohesive alphabet. For example the
    \"e\" you use was probably taken from the end of a word...in this case I'm thinkin
    \"one.\" since the \"e\" is at the end of this word, it wouldn't work the same
    as if it were in the middle of a word. \r\n\r\nKerning would help like in the
    \"P-T\" combo."
  created: '2006-01-25 18:34:28'
- author:
    name: SF
    picture: 111253
  body: later
  created: '2006-01-25 23:19:54'
- author:
    name: Wes W
  body: "SF, do u have a scan of that article? I missed it while it was on the stands.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    the Font Magazine article switch directions and focused more on the new trend
    of street art, here is a link to the online extras I did on Graffiti (lettering):\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontfeed/archives/graffiti_artist.cfm\">The Exchange</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fontfeed/archives/rime_interview.cfm#39\">RIME.kcw.msk</a>"
  created: '2006-07-15 00:42:20'
date: '2006-01-11 02:02:10'
title: Graffiti

---
