---
author:
  name: dux
  picture: 110146
body: "At one point I was interested in applying to the Reading type design MA, and
  received mixed opinions on the value of taking a year out to learn about type, in
  classroom conditions. Some type designers thought it something you could teach yourself,
  and others thought it highly worthwhile. Now my question isn't with regards to the
  virtues of this particular course, but as to how many of you now practising received
  any kind of formal training. I myself have been plodding along now for a couple
  of years, improving in babysteps, following a type apprenticeship with dalton maag.
  I have no other formal training in the arts whatsoever.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: spyros
    picture: 111149
  body: "Do you need to go to the fine art school to be a painter? you can, and you
    can not. I don't believe you can go to a school and end up as an artist. However,
    typography, for some, is a conservative artform supposed to have rules and conditions.
    So, why are they not formalised that much. Why are there few schools to teach
    you this discipline? I don't know. it's a craft, it's a skill, you can teach yourself,
    you can learn it from others. Why bothering. Learning is a big time process. \r\nIs
    there a uni for poetry? \r\nare there poets with Nobel prices coming from big
    poetry courses? \r\nHowever, I have no answer but a similar questions."
  created: '2006-01-15 17:32:00'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "A year-long masters program sounds like overkill to me - I would think one
    class would be enough to learn what you need to know about type history/design.\r\n\r\nFor
    myself I have no formal training in typography, but was lucky enough (I think)
    to learn design just before the advent of the computer. You really had to know
    your type in those days, because mistakes were very expensive to correct. Also
    the number of fonts to choose from was far far fewer. I was also lucky to have
    a boss when I started out who took a real interest in making sure I understood
    type. But, I'm a graphic designer, not a type designer.\r\n\r\nI have always thought
    that a graphic design degree is basically a waste of money."
  created: '2006-01-15 17:45:52'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Actually, I've always considered getting a degree in graphic design the most
    worthwhile thing I've ever done. It certainly wasn't a waste of money.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    unless one devotes years to teaching type design to oneself\u2014and even here,
    one needs input, feedback, and interaction with one's peers and mentors (conferences
    and the internet are the best ways now to accomplish this)\u2014several academic
    courses are necessary. A single, one semester class isn't going to cut it, and
    I doubt that it ever has.\r\n\r\nA one-year master's degree isn't the only way,
    but it is one of the fastest. The most positive things that one might learn at
    Reading or the Hague are quick production methods. And how to use Python. People
    hiring young type designers are often looking for this skill more than any other.
    You can teach this to yourself as well, but it'll take more time that way.\r\n\r\nA
    degree\u2014like it or not\u2014also acts as a badge of authority (depending on
    where one got it, of course)."
  created: '2006-01-15 18:54:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I did not have any formal training in type design, but I have a huge amount
    of respect for what Gerry does at Reading (the only programme with which I am
    personally familiar) and rather wish that I had spent such a year at the beginning
    of my career. I think the principle value of such a course is that it packages
    the information that one needs and compresses the experience of designing a typeface
    family in a structured timeframe, while at the same time allowing for much more
    freedom of exploration than working to a commercial deadline. I''m very much aware,
    as someone who is largely self-taught and who learned on the job, that it has
    taken a long time to fill various holes in my knowledge, and some still exist:
    learning on the job, you learn only what you need to get the particular job done.
    In a programme with a structured curriculum, you are more likely to learn more
    things in a short period of time.'
  created: '2006-01-15 19:02:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "My only formal training related to type design: evening classes in calligraphy.\r\nIf
    it's training you want, rather than education, the workshops at TypeCon, ATypI,
    Typotechnica, etc., are useful."
  created: '2006-01-15 21:41:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: I also studied graphic design before the days of the personal computer, and
    I am very glad to have gone to school. You meet other people that share your interests
    and are exposed to different points of view, something you might not get if you
    are studying on your own. Also, I feel that school gives you the chance to try
    things out before going out into the real world, working on projects you might
    not have a go at otherwise.
  created: '2006-01-15 21:53:06'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "I've met a lot of graphic designers and there are great divisions of opinion
    on how worthwhile people found the actual degree. I am living proof that it's
    not impossible to miss out on a piece of paper and to learn your craft so my opinion
    is biased. Three of four years without commercial pressure to experiment within
    though, aren't something to be sniffed at. \r\n\r\nThe difference between type
    design and graphics are that there are significant fewer places in which this
    craft can be learnt on the job, and therefore you have to teach yourself. Perhaps
    at the end of the day, drive is the only thing that matters. If you want something
    badly enough, one way or another you will achieve the things you want to."
  created: '2006-01-15 23:13:32'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "I agree with you on that last point, Dux. Drive certainly matters. On the
    other hand, I too have been thinking about taking some calligraphy or type design
    classes. At the last TypeCon I took a one-day workshop with Dennis Pasternak and
    got a lot out of it. I feel that when it comes to type design, there is only so
    much you can get from books.\r\n\r\nI am also curious about the program at Reading,
    but for me that would mean dropping everything and moving to England for a year.
    Maybe someday I'll be prepared to do that."
  created: '2006-01-15 23:41:55'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: "I too am self-taught re type design, and, like others, understand that there
    are many things still to learn. What can be taught is how to use the tools, whether
    it is the software program, especially stuff like Quark, InDesign, FontLab, Fontographer,
    etc., or the pencil. But drive is what you need, without question.\r\nJordan"
  created: '2006-01-16 00:10:55'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I guess my skepticism of design school is that since design is essentially
    an applied art, those 2-3 years of \"freedom of exploration\" tend to produce
    both a portfolio full of absurdly impractical designs and a bunch of graduates
    who don't want to be told no you can't use 6 colors plus die cuts plus 3 different
    kinds of paper. Plus they expect to be handed the keys to the castle rather than
    starting at the bottom designing flaps for a book jacket like the rest of us.
    \r\n\r\nIt is not the same as going to school for, say, painting where I think
    students should be encouraged to push their minds as far as they can without commercial
    constraints (altho that said, MFA programs have become trade schools for the chelsea
    gallery system nowadays anyway). \r\n\r\nI confess I don't know much about the
    type programs (Reading, the Hague) they may be much more valuable than Pratt or
    Parsons."
  created: '2006-01-16 00:40:44'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "Learning the tools are one thing, learning what to do with them is another.\r\n\r\nI've
    got nothing against experimentation, but in terms of graphic design especially,
    there is an inescapable constraint of commercial viability that needs to be operated
    within. I tend to see folios that fluctuate between the unfeasible and the flat
    and cliched. Balance and perspective are the ideal I supose.\r\n\r\nAlso, I think
    the ego you mention is probably more to do with youth than anything else."
  created: '2006-01-16 00:53:04'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "> <em>a portfolio full of absurdly impractical designs and a bunch of graduates
    who don\u2019t want to be told no you can\u2019t use 6 colors plus die cuts plus
    3 different kinds of paper. Plus they expect to be handed the keys to the castle
    rather than starting at the bottom designing flaps for a book jacket like the
    rest of us</em>\r\n\r\nHeh heh, I've known people like this and maybe I've been
    guilty of some of these things myself at one time, but let's give design school
    a chance -- you can also learn what it means to think conceptually, or the history
    of art and design, too.\r\n\r\nSorry for the slightly off-topic comment, but I
    just had to say that.\r\n\r\n:-)"
  created: '2006-01-16 01:05:22'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: No need to apologise, it's not off-topic in the least.
  created: '2006-01-16 01:09:31'
- author:
    name: Mister M
  body: 'Jonathan Hoefler was self-taught and he''s pretty good at what he does. I
    think it all boils down to determination. I remember reading an interview on Mr.
    Hoefler (EYE magazine I think)and he said that he was probably the only fifteen
    year-old with a subcription to U&Lc magazine. I''d like to think a large part
    of the success he has today is due to his determination in wanting to be a type
    designer. '
  created: '2006-01-16 01:43:53'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: How long has it taken the self-taught to produce the first face that they
    look back on as fully successful?
  created: '2006-01-16 03:49:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <em>Fully</em> successful? That's a tall order, as there are always things
    I am dissatisfied with, whether I notice them at the time or years later. I started
    designing type in early 1994. I think I began to get quite good at it in a general
    sense about 2001. The designs I produced from about 1998-onward have many good
    attributes, but may contain things that I now would do differently and, I think,
    better.
  created: '2006-01-16 04:21:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "20 years.\r\nBut then, I was subscribing to NME when I was 15, and have yet
    to have a hit record."
  created: '2006-01-16 04:34:36'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Less than a decade isn't bad, John: it would seem that type design is more
    like lyric poetry than fiction (no one ever produced their best work in fiction
    before the age of thirty-eight). And Aeneas (1997?) is beautiful too!\r\n\r\nJust
    seen your message, Nick; with this enlarged sample, type design's looking tougher,
    though less tough than determining which three chords to play and how to wear
    your hair."
  created: '2006-01-16 04:42:44'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "Dylan Thomas wrote lucidly and successful at twenty one I believe - but I'm
    sure there are many exceptions to the rule. I'm going off at a tangent...\r\n\r\nIt
    doesnt surprise me that figures of 7 years and upwards are being mentioned. Learning
    your history and appreciating your place in it are perpetual tasks, but I guess
    it takes a while to take in enough to make a genuine contribution."
  created: '2006-01-16 10:07:53'
- author:
    name: basicframework
    picture: 110916
  body: "One benefit to the graduate Reading program (and others) that hasn't been
    mentioned is that it's a necessary qualification if you at some point want to
    become a full-time teacher. (At least here in Canada.)\r\n\r\nThough they used
    to be more liberal, most college and university design programs will only consider
    hiring instructors who have done an MA with some design program, type or otherwise.\r\n\r\nTeaching
    may not be an immediate consideration for you and a potential type design career,
    but it's always good to consider down the line. I know I have! And goodness knows
    it would benefit the type community at large to have more type-savvy instructors
    in our schools."
  created: '2006-01-16 13:27:25'
- author:
    name: kristin
    picture: 110305
  body: "Helpful classes are also available at places other than college. I benefitted
    tremendously by a typography class taught at the Minnesota Center for Book Arts:
    \r\n\r\nhttp://www.mnbookarts.org/"
  created: '2006-01-16 14:57:37'
- author:
    name: Nicole Dotin
    picture: 110879
  body: "The self-taught vs. formal education debate seems to be a personal matter.
    People learn in different ways and value different educational settings. One is
    not necessarily better than the next.\r\n\r\nHowever, a formal education isn't
    wholly comprised of learning software, creating a portfolio and getting a degree.
    A good program can provide you new ways of thinking, a new context to create work,
    new experiences you might not have gained on your own and forces you to examine
    your successes and more importantly, failures.\r\n\r\nMy time getting my masters
    was invaluable. I've also learned much on my own. It's what experiences you consider
    valuable. \r\n\r\nLast but not least, if it is financially viable, the one year
    you spend at Reading (or another program) may save you five learning on your own.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-16 15:03:30'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>fully successful</em>\r\n\r\nhow would you quantify this? what is your
    definition of success?"
  created: '2006-01-16 15:22:51'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: By fully successful I mean satisfying the designer both in the large and in
    detail as a piece of design, after several years have passed and different work
    has been done.
  created: '2006-01-16 15:38:11'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I have been a self-taught lettering and calligraphy student since I was about
    3, and I didn't have any classes or training related to lettering or type until
    I got my degree, late in life at 28, in Printing, with a concentration in typography.
    There were no classes in type design at RIT (Rochester NY) during those years,
    but there were many type-related events like the Goudy Awards, and classes in
    type design taught by Julian Waters (the same class that had been taught by H.
    Zapf earlier). \r\n\r\nBook arts, typography, fine printing and printing history
    were all elements of the curriculum, but I had to engineer the type design experiences
    on my own. Internships and self-motivation were the places I learned some of the
    craft of type design, and now, after 4.5 years as a type designer, I find each
    new project challenges me and I learn new things. So really my education/experience
    isn't finished. But I have been consistently active in letter arts since my childhood.
    \r\n\r\nI do duspect that if there was a program focused on type design I would
    have progressed faster, and made fewer mistakes, but then too, I've been fortunate
    to have guidance all along the way, simply by asking, sharing and talking. I guess
    I would say that if someone wants to boost their development they should certainly
    consider Reading, but in the end I agree that one's success will depend heavily
    on determination and sustained interest.\r\n\r\nI think I released my first successful
    typeface at age 29. However, It was preceded by several very labored and unworthy
    efforts which I am quite glad have never been seen. I am an advocate of discarding
    one's first typeface design. Also, that first \"successful\" design had a very
    modest brief and was not an ambitious project, and succeeds in its narrow intended
    application only. \r\n\r\nHowever, Jonathan was certainly not the only 15-year-old
    with a subscription to U&lc. "
  created: '2006-01-16 16:44:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>And Aeneas (1997?) is beautiful too!</em>\r\n\r\nAnd derivative, which
    explains more of the beauty than my skills of the time. This is another point
    about learning type design: one's earliest efforts will almost always be derivative,
    because it is only with experience in making letterforms that you begin to think
    about them in original ways. So one benefit of school is that it gives you time
    to get past this before you start flogging your wares."
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: OK. That's why I want to start with a revival (on an MA course) rather than
      be derivative despite myself, and/or simply incompetent; which combination some
      might remember from my Mamillius lowercase (q., if you really want to, v.).
      And the nice thing about revivals is that one can flog them despite their being
      derivative.
    created: '2006-01-16 19:20:16'
  created: '2006-01-16 17:50:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>it is only with experience in making letterforms that you begin to think
    about them in original ways.</em>\r\n\r\nI would say the opposite is true.\r\nFormal
    education or training, and the marketplace, are all normative.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-16 19:50:36'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "About originality and education. \r\n\r\nThis is a general problem for all
    fields. Nick is right that schools all have their norms. \r\n\r\nWhat I think
    generates originality is that each person brings his or her own goals and problems--I
    mean design or intellectual problems--that motivated the education in the first
    place. The problem is when the education is overbearing or the student weak, and
    that spark of interest is squashed.\r\n\r\nBut if the school is good at nurturing
    the individual spark, or the individual is strong, it will not squelch the originality.
    In this case all learning, whether it is of craft, relevant information, or norms
    is to the good. \r\n\r\nThe important thing if you are a teacher is to nurture
    the spark while teaching ideas and skills and knowledge. The important thing if
    you are a student is to keep your individual interests alive and active while
    you are a student, and spending more time acquiring information and skills, rather
    than producing. "
  created: '2006-01-16 20:21:42'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: ">it is only with experience in making letterforms that you begin to think
    about them in original ways.\r\n\r\nTrue for me - and also the reason for discontinuing
    some of my early efforts."
  created: '2006-01-16 21:56:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "While I do have a formal education in graphic design from the prehistoric
    era which included classes in typography, calligraphy, logo & symbol design, and
    letterform design (all by-hand, brush, paint, pen, etc., I have no formal education
    in type design and am new to the attempt. \r\nI thought my formal design training
    was quite valuable. We saw NONE of the bull-headed insistence on \"'freedom of
    exploration' ...absurdly impractical designs...6 colors plus die cuts plus 3 different
    kinds of paper.\" that Patty refers to. I would be interested to know if all the
    people Patty has encountered with those problems were from the same school.\r\nIf
    I were 40 years younger and not supporting my family, I would love to attend a
    one year stint at Reading or The Hague. Type design is a solitary venture and
    having a brief (one year is quite short) saturated experience with a group of
    type minded colleagues and first rate teachers sounds like heaven to me. You will
    have a lifetime to be self-taught, why not take one year to attend a good school.
    I cannot imagine it doing you harm to be in a community of scholars for that small
    decimal of time.\r\n\r\n\"How long has it taken the self-taught to produce the
    first face that they look back on as fully successful?\"\r\nI can't imagine ever
    feeling anything I have done of any sort to be so fully successful that I could
    not go back and tinker with it yet again. I will just say that I have produced
    4 original type families in the past 2 years. I am far too perfectionistic to
    pronounce any of them \"fully Successful\" now and perhaps never will. I don't
    think going to a type design school would have any affect on that feeling either.
    It is just my nature.\r\n\r\nMy advice as self-taught old geezer:\r\n1.  Go take
    the 1 year program and immerse yourself in it fully.\r\n2. Don't expect to come
    out of either the school or any other kind of single experience (including self-taught)
    as being \"prepared to be fully successful\" by virtue of it. Just go do it and
    work your butt off in the pursuit of experience.\r\n3. School is not a requirement
    and should not be looked at as such. It should be looked upon as a unique experience.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-16 21:58:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I should add one more point related to my lat one:\r\n4. Getting an education
    is NOT the same as getting an injection. You should not go to a school or apprentice
    situation and assume you will be infused with knowledge and skill. You can go
    to the Doctor and get an injection of antibiotic to cure an infection with little
    participation other than offering our arm. Schools should not be seen as a large
    hypodermic device injecting students with a profession. The lion's share of responsibility
    lies with the student both during the school experience and after graduation.
    School plants a seed which the student must nurture fully before he/she can harvest
    the fruits of their labors.\r\n\r\nIn other words, You Get What You Work For.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-16 23:22:10'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Let me clarify my statement about experience and originality. In my experience,
    it is only after making letterforms for some time that one begins to think about
    them in original ways <em>that work.</em> The Typophile crit forum is full of
    original ideas about letterforms by beginners, but few of these ideas work very
    well and the designs do not hold together as typefaces.
  created: '2006-01-17 01:20:19'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Yes - how degradingly difficult it is without experience! One wades from fall
    to fall, and each luminous perception proves just more mud.
  created: '2006-01-17 01:33:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Yes - how degradingly difficult it is without experience! One wades from
    fall to fall, and each luminous perception proves just more mud.\"\r\n\r\nBut
    that is precisely what experience is! You learn from those muddy experiences.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-17 02:20:43'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "I used to try to hide the fact that I have never had any art school training,
    other than two seasons of night school, but quite a few years ago I tired of the
    effort it  took to  remember which art school I had lied about attending the last
    time I was asked about it.\r\nThis became a real strain when I was teaching graphic
    design! what crust, huh?\r\n\r\nI escaped from the composing room close to 40
    years ago and have managed to make a living, feed three kids and legions of cats;
    and we own 93% of our old house. No training involved.\r\n\r\nQuite a few people
    on this forum hvae noted that they came to graphic design by dent of effort and
    have managed to work successfully in the field of graphic design, and why not.\r\n\r\nIt
    seems that hardly anyone in history had had much if any training in type design.
    I mentioned in another post that some come from sign writing backgrounds. Oz Cooper
    and Robert Foster are prime examples of men who worked a long time doing sho-card
    painting for department stores. \r\n\r\nI think that anything that forces one
    to look closely at letters and render them in any medum over a long time is one
    of the best training grounds.\r\n\r\nDon't get me wrong; I think there is great
    value in a formal graphic design education and I really do wish that I had had
    the opportunity, but I found myself shoved into a compositor apprenticeship and
    there was no arguing about it. Now more than a half century later I wish that
    I had taken the time to thank my old dad for making the decision for me. I got
    to draw in the and and along the way picked up some type education.\r\n\r\nJim\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n
    \ \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-01-17 02:44:34'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "The education of the designer.\r\nThe education of the graphic designer.\r\nThe
    education of the typographer.\r\nThe education of the type designer.\r\nThe education
    of the calligrapher.\r\nThe education of the lettering artist.\r\nThe education
    of the sign painter/sign maker.\r\n\r\nYou might think there was a core commonality
    in their curriculum, but if that were true how is it that they differ so greatly
    in their viewpoints. Is it methodology or end product that narrows their focus?\r\nIs
    it the hierarchy or \"pecking order\" of the decision makers?\r\n\r\nThe type
    designer and calligrapher can (but not always) work like poets, in isolation with
    deep focus and singular intent.\r\n\r\nThe graphic designer, typographer (if one
    still exists) generally now works in a semi-office/studio agency environment and
    is shuttled between the client and printer. Some may still work in printshops,
    newspaper/periodicals, in marketing communications depts., etc. Business, business,
    business... and, oh yeh... marketing BS.\r\n\r\nThe \"designer/director/creative\"
    slightly higher in the pecking order will spend more time on proposal writing,
    meetings and presentations than deeply intrenched in guiding the production.\r\n\r\nThe
    lettering artist used to work in semi-studios or busy production areas, but nowadays
    since it's a much rarer skill, can work as an individual at home or in small office...
    alone.\r\n\r\nThe sign painter/maker generally works in a workshop-like area,
    garage, small industrial space and gets to drink beer with the truckers.\r\n\r\nSomething
    happens to you after formal education. You work!\r\nThe skills required (manual,
    not thinking ones) are generally taught on the job, on the fly, or as you can.\r\n\r\nWhen
    I was teaching second year graphic designers about typography, the only ones (two
    actually) that progressed the fastest in terms of type sensitivity, were the ones
    who were already trying some kind of design work as a source of income. Those
    students during the course of 15 weeks never lost a chance to stay and ask for
    an opinion or critique of the pieces they designed at work (one of them designed
    flyers at a small print shop). They asked questions less during class, but more
    one-on-one after class.\r\n\r\nOf the regular day students, many did well, some
    did not, but only the working students were passionate about learning more!\r\n\r\nWhen
    I was in my senior year at college I was a \"brilliant artiste\" and it wasn't
    until I worked nine-to-five that I realized how much I had to learn.\r\n\r\nThere
    is another aspect to design education that I hope to share (I'm writing notes
    on type ed) and that has more to do with the height, depth and breadth of learning
    and understanding one NEEDS to incorporate into their life's education. Because
    graphic design is now being taught with fewer academic subjects in the humanities
    and sciences, graduates are gradually falling lower in the corporate food chain.
    The devaluation of design and designers by corporations (as well as other creative
    contributors) is making this world an uglier place."
  created: '2006-01-17 04:23:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The type designer ... can (but not always) work like poets, in isolation
    with deep focus and singular intent. </em>\r\n\r\nI wish. If you run your own
    foundry, those moments are precious and hard to come by, except perhaps late at
    night when you're all alone (but that was another thread...) "
  created: '2006-01-17 05:40:56'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: Thanks all for your comments. We have all taken different paths, and have
    had different experiences along them, so it's interesting to hear your views on
    this subject. I personally deliberately shunned university first time round --
    I wasnt a hundred percent sure what I wanted to study, and didnt want to fall
    off the conveyor belt like my friends. You go to school, you do your a-levels,
    you finish university and you start work -- and you barely have a moment to think.
    Going straight into the world of work I've had time to decide exactly what I want
    to do, I've gained some perspective, and now if I were to study, I would enter
    it fully committed. I hate to say it but too many students enter a course without
    this, and it's no surprise they end up as they do.
  created: '2006-01-17 11:13:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "My feelings are much like Carl Crossgrove's and John Hudson's on this. My
    education was like Carl's, at RIT. If the Reading MA in Type Design had existed,
    and I had known of it back then, I would have gone there instead, and gotten a
    lot more out of it in terms of my type design abilities. That being said, a lot
    of the stuff I learned at RIT that I would not have gotten at Reading has been
    very helpful - I got a much broader education in printing and workflows.\r\n\r\nMy
    experience has been the opposite of Nick's in one respect - I started out doing
    extremely derivative stuff, and am now doing things which are at once more original
    and better executed.\r\n\r\nA lot depends on how one learns best, and how one
    feels about formal education, too. I think the Reading environment would have
    been good for me, but that doesn't mean it would be good for everybody.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-17 22:42:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Formal education or training, and the marketplace, are all normative.</em>\r\n\r\nLet
    me clarify that.\r\nIn my experience teaching type design (ironic position, for
    one self-taught), I found the challenge was to reign in the more \"creative\"
    students and get them to focus on practicality, and at the same time to fire up
    the more practical students to think a little more outside the box, pardon the
    cliche.\r\nSo both those actions, on my part, were normative, in the sense that
    I was encouraging the students to be well-rounded designers. "
  created: '2006-01-17 23:08:16'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>...encouraging the students to be well-rounded designers.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich
    I agree is critical to the design student, but well-rounded as individuals as
    well, meaning a broad range of interests not limited to the arts. So many levels
    of understanding is essesntial if not critical to approaching design solutions.
    Design is not just a visual excercise, as evidenced by the depth of dialogue contained
    throughout Typophile (at least while Chris L and I are not punning you to death).\r\n\r\nI've
    made little of my education in this particular thread, but it was extremely intensive
    from primary school up, and as much training went into the mind as into the hand.
    By the time I reached college, I was saturated with academic studies, and it was
    time for my professors to break the shell and let things flow.\r\n\r\nAfter college,
    it was into the workforce, where problems could be reassimilitate and solutions
    refreshed... with the help and further lessons by seasoned professionals. It ain't
    fun if you're not being challenged, and if you're not being challenged, you ain't
    learning."
  created: '2006-01-18 00:15:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Because graphic design is now being taught with fewer academic subjects
    in the humanities and sciences, graduates are gradually falling lower in the corporate
    food chain.\"\r\n\r\nI don't know if \"taught with fewer academic subjects\" is
    true in every design school (certainly not at my old alma mater CMU) but I would
    certainly agree that \"graduates are gradually falling lower in the corporate
    food chain\".  This may be more due to the feeling that design is about learning
    software these days rather than learning communication and design problem solving
    (so brains are not needed). Just look at the crap that passes as logo design these
    days!\r\nI also blame the Marketing \"BSers\" for emphasizing the focus testing
    but using poor excuses for design to test. I guess the thinking is you can sell
    anything to a client if you have \"data\" even if it is lame data so why pay higher
    design fees when you can hire a kid who just learned Illustrator in a box! The
    sad part is that real honest testing and marketing could help improve quality
    but it would of course cost the marketing firm more to do it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-18 00:42:34'
- author:
    name: sebsan
    picture: 110914
  body: "If I get it right, Frank Blokland was saying on Typeradio that Chess seems
    like an objective game, \u2014<em>Chess n. A board game for two players, each
    beginning with 16 pieces of six kinds that are moved according to individual rules,
    with the objective of checkmating the opposing king.</em>\u2014 However, no one
    not even a computer can guess more then 25 moves ahead (or was it less?), beyond
    that point it's pure subjectivity. Although it is crucial to know the rules of
    chess to play it, these won't turn you into a good player. Even if it's hard to
    hear the rules alone don't tell you how to win, it is in addition to your talent
    and hard work that you will checkmate everytime. \r\n\r\n\r\nI have the firm intention
    to apply to TypeMedia this year and if I get in I will use this as my moto:\r\n\r\n<em>Getting
    an education is NOT the same as getting an injection. You should not go to a school
    or apprentice situation and assume you will be infused with knowledge and skill.
    You can go to the Doctor and get an injection of antibiotic to cure an infection
    with little participation other than offering our arm. Schools should not be seen
    as a large hypodermic device injecting students with a profession. The lion\u2019s
    share of responsibility lies with the student both during the school experience
    and after graduation. School plants a seed which the student must nurture fully
    before he/she can harvest the fruits of their labors.\r\n\r\n\r\nIn other words,
    You Get What You Work For.\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2014ChrisL</em>\r\n\r\nThanks Chris for
    these wise words, they give me goose bumps."
  created: '2006-01-18 19:42:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thank you Sebastien! And best of luck in your endeavor.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-18 19:47:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have no other formal training in the arts whatsoever.\r\n\r\nConsider
    yourself lucky.\r\n\r\n> I would think one class would be enough\r\n\r\nNo way.\r\n\r\n>
    it all boils down to determination.\r\n\r\nNot all. There's also the matter of
    talent.\r\n\r\n> People learn in different ways\r\n\r\nVery true.\r\n\r\n> it
    is only with experience in making letterforms\r\n> that you begin to think about
    them in original ways.\r\n\r\nNo way.\r\n\r\n> The type designer and calligrapher
    can (but not always) work like poets\r\n\r\nGod forbid.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nAlways
    remember that formal education is a two-sided coin.\r\nThe best way to get into
    it is with a large backpack of doubt.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-24 16:10:35'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Though my own formal education up through graduating high school was heavily
    academic (literature, mathematics, physics, the sciences) the high school I went
    to specialized in pre-college  majors in the technical professions: electrical
    and mechanical engineering, aeronautical engineering, etc.\r\n\r\nFor my junior
    and senior years, I was in the Industrial Design program where we learned about
    development of products from conception through distribution, including drafting,
    product modeling, prototyping, manufacturing processes, packaging, and finally
    illustration and advertising. \r\n\r\nNot all work was done with books or on the
    boards as our high school was fully equipted with trade shops which gave us hands-on
    experience with metal shop (we learned to make our own tools), patternmaking/foundry
    (reading blueprints we created wood prototypes then cast them in metal), and letterpress
    printshop.\r\n\r\nFor me (how one learns is based on the individual) the combination
    of academic, conceptual development and production training was formative to how
    I think and what I do.\r\nSadly, I don't think many high schools can offer such
    programs anymore.\r\n\r\nThough college continued with some academics and production
    training, the majority was devoted to preparing the mind and eye for higher level
    conceptualizing, problem solving and creative thinking (not just art, but for
    all creative approaches). \r\n\r\nA core group of my college instructors never
    showed us their own work or how they approached problems. They just kept pushing
    us to push the envelop, to stop being rote thinkers and step through doors that
    previously <em>seemed locked</em>.\r\n\r\nSo I guess the core questions is this:\r\n-
    Do I want to learn a craft then do that for the rest of my life, or do I want
    to learn something that affects the way I do things for the rest of my life?\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-24 17:54:05'
date: '2006-01-15 15:01:02'
node_type: forum
title: academic training in type design

---
