---
author:
  name: thegirlnextdoor
  picture: 111248
body: "hi, i'm new here =) \r\nanyone know websites that give loads of good [[faq_free|free
  fonts]]? \r\nthanks!\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Boy, you must be new here with a question like that! :-)\r\n\r\nIn general,
    there isn't a lot of free-font recommending going on around here. Many fonts that
    are offered for free online are actually pirated versions of commercial fonts.
    The designers of many of those commercial fonts tend to be represented here.\r\n\r\nBut
    for good resources on finding legit free fonts, try http://www.fontleech.com and
    http://www.typeforge.net/cms/index.php?option=com_weblinks&Itemid=29&lang=en"
  children:
  - author:
      name: yaxin
    body: "Hello,\r\nI'd like to share these <b><a href=\"http://www.clearchinese.com/resources/fonts.htm\">free
      Chinese fonts</a></b>. Really cool and free too.\r\nTake care :-)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/HDZB_25_3469.gif]"
    created: '2006-10-05 12:29:45'
  created: '2006-01-17 10:01:09'
- author:
    name: Dav
    picture: 128119
  body: "<em>> <a href=\"http://www.identifont.com/free-fonts.html\" target=\"_blank\">www.identifont.com/free-fonts.html</a>\r\n>
    <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/search?search%5Btext%5D=Free\" target=\"_blank\">www.myfonts.com/search?search%5Btext%5D=Free</a>\r\n>
    <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/features/free.cfm\" target=\"_blank\">www.fontshop.com/features/free.cfm</a></em>\r\n\r\nDav"
  created: '2006-01-17 10:04:13'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "My usual answer is that 99% of free fonts are junk, so \"good free fonts\"
    isn't an oxymoron, but boy are they hard to find. Now, admittedly, some noticeable
    percentage of retail fonts are junk, too, but it's a lot easier to find decent
    quality retail fonts.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-17 10:11:43'
- author:
    name: gtrianta
    picture: 111263
  body: "http://www.backpacker.gr\r\n\r\nGeorge Triantafyllakos - backpacker.gr"
  created: '2006-01-17 10:56:34'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "we've put together a list just for queries like this:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/FAQ_Free"
  created: '2006-01-17 14:30:00'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "http://www.dafont.com/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.moorstation.org/typoasis/designers/curtis/pages/a.htm"
  created: '2006-01-17 14:58:56'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Be carefull about dafont\u2026 there are lots of rip-offs there.\r\n\r\nThat's
    the biggest problems with free font sites\u2026 with too many free fonts you have
    to do extra homework to find out if the font is legit or not."
  created: '2006-01-17 15:06:20'
- author:
    name: Giordano
    picture: 111222
  body: "Misprinted Type offers some of their fonts for free. They're not suited to
    all uses, but they're interesting.\r\n\r\nwww.misprintedtype.com"
  children:
  - author:
      name: thegirlnextdoor
      picture: 111248
    body: i love misprintedtype, it's really cool ^^
    created: '2006-01-21 08:28:59'
  created: '2006-01-18 02:07:09'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Good. Cheap. Fonts. You can have two of the three. Or something like that.
  created: '2006-01-18 03:34:37'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Apostrophic Labs' Day Roman is the best free text font I've seen: it's the
    only accurate Guyot roman. Unfortunately, pairing it with the only accurate Guyot
    italic, DTL van den Keere italic, will cost you a minimum of \u20AC100. Perhaps
    it would be best to buy something else."
  created: '2006-01-18 03:43:13'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Sample of free fonts quality\r\n\r\nhttp://cooltext.com/Fonts-RudynFluffy"
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: "I like 'Category: Hard to Read' in the website above. \r\n\r\nMore useful
      and free for personal use are Igino Marini's <a href = 'http://www.iginomarini.com/fell.html'>Fell
      revivals</a>, made along the lines, though without the sophistication, of Founder's
      Caslon."
    created: '2006-01-18 16:54:48'
  created: '2006-01-18 16:10:42'
- author:
    name: .
  body: 'Trying out another maxim: "You get what you pay for."'
  created: '2006-01-18 17:27:37'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Indie Fonts: The Books.\r\n\r\nI agree with Chester. You do get what you
    pay for."
  created: '2006-01-18 17:30:20'
- author:
    name: thegirlnextdoor
    picture: 111248
  body: haha thanks all =D
  created: '2006-01-18 18:57:58'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "On the topic of Apostrophic Labs' Day Roman, a few questions:\r\n\r\nHow
    does it compare to similar commercial fonts? It looks like a quality typeface,
    but without italics, unfortunately. DTL Van den Keere is one possiblity. Are there
    any others?\r\n\r\nDo you like the contrast of Day Roman?"
  created: '2006-01-18 20:20:13'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "A few months ago I spent some time looking into John Day's work. Amongst
    other things, he, rather than Caslon, was the first English punch-cutter of serious
    ability, producing work which would seem to most of us now Garamondian, but which
    was really in the broad, light though low-contrast, serenely even manner of Jean
    de Tournes of Lyon - a kind of Renaissance Baskerville, though with better proportions.
    \r\n\r\nDay put up the great Francois Guyot in his house for a while, and used
    a double pica roman and italic typeface of his; Day Roman and Heine's Tribute,
    issued by Emigre, are both modelled on this same type. Tribute was <a href = 'http://www.emigre.com/EFoITrbF.php'>approved</a>
    by John Downer but <a href='http://cgm.cs.mcgill.ca/~luc/troop-on-tribute.txt'>demolished
    </a> by Bill Troop. In the same commentary, the Apostrophic Labs sketch of the
    roman, only a few hours' work, is held up as far more sensitive, though it could
    hardly have been other than 'inadequately conceptualised'. Having looked hard
    at the original, I agree, and the contrast is fine, but the descenders have been
    brutally truncated. I also like Tribute: it's hardly a revival, but very attractive,
    perhaps best thought of as 'Mrs Guyot'.\r\n\r\nI don't actually know whether the
    DTL italic would synthesize at all with the Apostrophic roman, but each is good.
    I think you'd just have to play around if you really wanted to find a matching
    italic - Granjon italics might work. "
  created: '2006-01-18 21:18:04'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: "From another thread Vitaly Friedman's site is quite good and informative
    at\r\nhttp://www.alvit.de/blog/article/20-best-license-free-official-fonts\r\nYes,
    you do get what you pay for, no Thomas 99% of free fonts are not necessarily crap,
    but, yes, there are a lot of rip-off fonts out there. For good or even great free
    fonts one need only look at Manfred Klein's stuff at http://moorstation.org/typoasis/designers/klein/\r\nOne
    might argue that since \"bundled\" fonts are free with purchased software that
    those fonts are crap, but they aren't are they? But this is another discussion.\r\nJordan"
  created: '2006-01-18 21:26:52'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Thank your for your insight, Mr. Horton.\r\n\r\nI've downloaded and printed
    some of Marini's Fell Revivals at 600dpi, and I'm speechless.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.iginomarini.com/fell.html\r\n\r\nIs
    it my untrained eye, or do these truly look beautiful. It is as if I'm reading
    one of the very early (modern) editions of Tacitus. The italics seem to have just
    the right amount of ink \"spill\" or thickening in certain areas, such as the
    italic lower case \"n\" in the De Walpergen Pica (at 10.5pt.) And the way the
    middle curl on the \"w\" is just a bit too thick to allow the inner white area
    to show through completely. This is really brilliant stuff."
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: They are lovely aren't they? You might also want to look at www.stormtype.com/ancienne.html.
    created: '2006-01-18 22:16:58'
  created: '2006-01-18 22:03:46'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: "Yes, Franta Storm's stuff is notable for excpetional quality. He loves to
    do revivals of old Eastern European faces. I've bought some fonts from StormTpye,
    and it's money well spent. \r\n\r\nEven his free \"Lido\" is fantastic, although
    the TrueType version's italics lack kerning (or was it the OpenType version?)
    Anyway I already e-mailed him about this, and he was shocked. I assume he fixed
    this problem."
  created: '2006-01-18 23:35:27'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Let me re-phrase that: 95-99% of the free fonts that aren't rip-offs of retail
    fonts are junk. Then again, I think that at least 20-40% of retail fonts are junk,
    too. Maybe half or more when I'm in a bad mood.\r\n\r\nI'm reminded of Sturgeon's
    Law. Science fiction author Theodore Sturgeon was asked why there was so much
    bad science fiction out there. He said: \"Sure, 90% of science fiction is crud.
    That's because 90% of everything is crud.\"\r\n\r\n(Interestingly, whenever this
    is quoted, people tend to replace \"crud\" with another word.)\r\n\r\nWhy yes,
    I do think the Eeyore world view is basically accurate. Why do you ask?  :)"
  created: '2006-01-19 02:01:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Why yes, I do think the Eeyore world view is basically accurate. Why
    do you ask? :)</em>\r\n\r\ni recommend reading <em>the te of piglet</em>. ;^D"
  created: '2006-01-19 03:05:36'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I want to add that there are very quality free fonts availabe. For instance
    what Victor has to offer over at SIL is incredibly useful and good quality too.
    FontShop has free downloads occasionally of gorgeous and incredibly tasty fonts.
    There are some excellent and fun fonts for download at various other sites. I'll
    just eat my words. FREE is a tainted word. :^/
  created: '2006-01-19 05:02:48'
- author:
    name: .
  body: 'And don''t forget that a lot of those "free" fonts are not freely licensed:
    if one ends up using the font(s) in for-profit work, many of the them stop being
    free.'
  children:
  - author:
      name: Miss Tiffany
      picture: 110563
    body: Exactly, Chester. For instance, the <a href="http://www.blambot.com/license.shtml">EULA</a>
      for Blambot's free fonts is quite explicit about this.
    created: '2006-01-19 17:20:04'
  created: '2006-01-19 05:50:26'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "I think it's cool when font vendors give out functional samples for free.
    Its an example of how free-as-in-beer aren't always garbage. Usually the samples
    are going to be suficciently limited, perhaps just one \"weight\", that one couldn't
    use them for a complex project. Fontfont's free stuff would be a good example
    of this.\r\n\r\nAlso I really dig Archive Type's \"sampler\" font. It's at the
    bottom of this page. http://www.archivetype.com/FreeStuff.htm"
  created: '2006-01-19 16:57:23'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "In all events, I think that most foundries offer one or two free fonts; ours
    are simply presented as part of our overall collection without any special call-outs.\r\n\r\nDTL
    offered some \"trial\" fonts - maybe they still do? - with complete miniscules,
    but only 6 or so majuscules, basic punctuation, and 3 or so numerals. It was a
    good way to get a feel for how the type might set up and colour the page, but
    was not possible to use for a job. (Unless you were setting an e.e. cummings poem,
    maybe...)"
  created: '2006-01-19 17:15:21'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: 'In perspective: 98% of replies in this thread are junk. And you get what
    you pay for with the other 2%.'
  created: '2006-01-19 17:54:57'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Is that "Sergej's Law"?
  created: '2006-01-19 17:57:39'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: No, it's a rip off that I distribute for free. Hence the questionable quality
    ...
  created: '2006-01-19 19:19:50'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "Underware, at TypeCon 05, was selling small sample books for Dolly and Sauna
    for about $10 or something. Each was filled with interesting facts and stories
    related to and set in the font and each included a CD with the entire font family
    on it for trial use. I thought that was a brilliant idea and bought both. I've
    been suggesting them to clients where appropriate and am scraping together cash
    myself because they're both great faces and I've had a chance to try them out
    (someday soon I'll have them). It makes my life as a designer so much easier.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I've actually licensed a font family from FontShop because of their free single
    weight downloads, which I used in a comp for a client.\r\n\r\nBoth of these are
    good examples of quality type for free (I consider the cost of the first one to
    be for the books, not the fonts), but one has restricted usage and the other has
    the restriction of being one weight, so there's a trade-off. But it seems like
    a fair one to me."
  created: '2006-01-19 20:31:45'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Maybe we need a better word than "free". :^/
  created: '2006-01-19 21:08:41'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: I notice that designers who are promoting font families often tend to offer
    one weight of a commercial font for free. Its a loss/leader, as they want you
    to try the one weight and realize you need the other weights as well. A good example
    would be the "free" fonts from the Indie Fonts books.
  created: '2006-01-19 21:39:43'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: What's a good font anyway?
  created: '2006-01-19 22:33:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "One that works technically: outlines that render, full and correct characters,
    (family) naming that shows up in the font menu and works cross platform.\r\nHinting,
    perhaps.\r\n\r\nHowever, like dogs, there's no such thing as a bad typeface."
  created: '2006-01-19 23:40:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Technical \"goodness\" is easy to measure using a tool like Font Validator,
    which in a TTF looks for outline, hinting, naming, metrics and other table errors.\r\n\r\nBeyond
    that goodness is harder to quantify.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-19 23:52:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Yes. Once again we've hit the subjective -- beauty in the eye of the beholder
    -- quandry.
  created: '2006-01-20 01:12:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "A good font suits its purpose well--book, screen, newspaper, phone book etc
    etc--and has good aesthetic quality as well. There is a subjective element of
    course, but it's not all subjective. \r\n\r\nThe 'suiting the purpose' has a lot
    of objective elements: if for extended reading it's comfortable to read at the
    intended size; it doesn't waste paper, if that is a need, it can get the readable
    result with the technology available, etc. \r\n\r\nAesthetics have a fairly large
    scope of at least inter-subjective standards. You can talk about balance, variety,
    color across very different kinds of typeface. Just as Picasso's women are often
    ugly, but well drawn by a lot of graphic design standards. Then there is also
    the element of personal taste, of course. But it isn't all a matter of personal
    taste and preference.   \r\n\r\nFor example, for the screen at 10 pt Georgia is
    better than University Roman. I also happen personally to detest University Roman,
    but that is another matter. "
  created: '2006-01-20 01:29:28'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I recently wrote a lengthy blog post on font quality, here: http://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2005/12/quality_in_type.html\r\n\r\nWe
    can debate the aesthetics part of this, but there definitely <strong>IS</strong>
    such a thing as a bad font when one is talking about the technical and craft aspects
    of font design.\r\n\r\nThere are of course some really first-rate free fonts out
    there, and this is a fine place to come and get pointers to them. But even among
    those, there are precious few that can give you a serifed text face that comes
    complete with regular, bold, italic and bold italic variants. If you need a basic
    family like that, some otherwise great free fonts won't fit the bill (e.g. Gentium).\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-20 03:37:35'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Agreed, there are bad fonts, but as has been mentioned, a font should be
    individually appraised by each person for their needs and not automaticaly assumed
    that an 'experts' opinion is one that should be accepted. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-20 04:42:47'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I wonder if there has been another industry (other than the current plague
    of unauthorized copying and distribution of \"free\" music and videos) that virtually
    gave away its products.\r\n\r\nI understand the marketing brilliance of Gillette
    giving away free razors with handle when launching Mach2 and Mach3, since you
    can't keep shaving with the same razor forever.\r\n\r\nI know that in the infancy
    of software development, PC based games, freeware, etc., somehow initiated no
    cost benefit to end users.\r\n\r\nI realize that font bundling, originally done
    by equipment manufactures and now by software companies, gave away enough fonts
    in order for the end user to get a running start.\r\n\r\nBut the perpetuating
    concept of FREE FONTS to new users of type has created a consumer base that think
    fonts are too expensive to buy.\r\n\r\nOn one side is the user base, which is
    comprised mostly of individuals and companies who don't (or don't now how to)
    make money using type. Yes, it's not like the \"ol' days\" when typesetting service
    cost money and type shops bought fonts as part of business.\r\n\r\nI think the
    agencies and graphic designers today are forgetting (or ignoring) the typesetting
    aspect of what they do. Somehow, even if the client provides the text file, the
    use of the type itself should have value. For instance, when estimating or billing
    a newsletter why can't you assign a typesetting fee for characters set? New typefaces
    are premium priced.<ul>\r\n<li>1500 characters using FF Absara Sans (new design)
    @ $.005 per character = $7.50</li>\r\n<li>800 characters using Adobe Jenson Pro
    (bundled InDesign) @ $.001 per character = $.80</li>\r\n<li>1700 characters using
    Helvetica (bundled with equipment) @ $.00 per character = $.00</li></ul>\r\n\r\nEven
    if you (the designers out there who want fonts for free) don't actually put this
    fee on the invoice, you should calculate it into the final price to the client.
    \r\n\r\nYou should be thinking in terms of the value of type on paper or screen.
    Your grandpa made money setting type, so why are you giving it away."
  created: '2006-01-20 05:46:05'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: "Danish design firm Kontrapunkt won best typeface design in Denmark back in
    2004 and still offers this winning font as a free download. Not exactly my personal
    aesthetic but apparently 50000 yes 50000 downloads means many like this design
    including mega sport brand Adidas who is now using it in their branding. \r\nhere
    is link\r\n\r\nhttp://www.kontrapunkt.com/news/ddprize_typeface_of_the_year_2004"
  created: '2006-01-20 10:11:48'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Typotheticals,\r\n\r\n\"Agreed, there are bad fonts, but as has been mentioned,
    a font should be individually appraised by each person for their needs and not
    automaticaly assumed that an \u2018experts\u2019 opinion is one that should be
    accepted.\"\r\n\r\nIf \"each person\" is a knowledgeable graphic designer or a
    typographer, maybe. But many graphic designers do not have sufficient knowledge.\r\n\r\nWorse,
    most other users are certainly not able to appraise these issues. That's why when
    given access to the internet they download fun but badly made fonts and use them
    in highly inappropriate ways. Or they just use Times and Arial (or Helvetica)
    without even thinking, which in such cases might be an improvement.\r\n\r\nOf
    course, you yourself make somewhat lower quality and much less expensive retail
    fonts, and I sought out my job at a company that makes relatively high quality
    and expensive (when not bundled) fonts, so I guess it's predictable that we would
    have opposite views on this matter, eh wot?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-21 07:40:44'
- author:
    name: kiteship
  body: "http://www.font-o-rama.com\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fenotype.com\r\n\r\nhttp://www.larabiefonts.com\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-21 10:39:38'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Thomas\r\n\r\nWhile some views are opposing, I am generally in agreement
    with you. There are a lot of free fonts out there which are bad. I am probably
    responsible for a good proportion of them myself. \r\n\r\nWell crafted fonts should
    be the priority in any commercial endeavour, but a lot (not all) of people after
    free fonts, as the original question in this thread was, are not after them for
    commercial use, therefore they should have the ability to use any font, good or
    bad, as long as it suits the effect and appeal they want. Advise is always acceptable
    of course.\r\n\r\nAlso, thanx for the casual backhand slap across the face. Unfortunately
    I am not priveliged like some to have skill, training and the access to a company
    who is prepared to supply all the goodies and assistance required to make better
    fonts, So I will plug away at the rubbish I seem to be making, teaching myself
    by my own mistakes and enjoying it. I have never deluded myself, or others, that
    I am anything but average. I do it in the spare time I have, and as a family man,
    do not let it become the do all and be all of my existence.\r\n\r\nAll best.\r\nG\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-16 11:44:14'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Ha, after reading that I have no skill at writing either.\r\n\r\n Partial
    quote 1 - \"some noticeable percentage of retail fonts are junk\" (earlier post)\r\n
    Partial quote 2 - \"Of course, you yourself make somewhat lower quality and much
    less expensive retail fonts\" (later post)\r\n\r\nWhat's the assumption here ?
    Not disagreeing, just wondering. Am I a 'noticable percentage' to you ?"
  created: '2006-02-16 12:07:46'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Graham, you have no need to apologize for what you are doing. A simple fact
    which seems to have eluded most of the participants in this particular forum is
    that free fonts constitute a first line of defense against font theft. You may
    notice that our clueless little friend who began this thread didn't ask where
    she could find \"a few good free fonts\"; rather, she was interested in acquiring
    LOADS of free fonts.\r\n\r\nIn our acquisitive society, those among us who sell
    our fontwares benefit from the phenomenon by which fonts have acquired the cachet
    of <strong>bling</strong>, which\u2014as everyone knows\u2014one cannot have too
    much of (remember: whoever dies with the most fonts, wins). If there were not
    LOADS of free fonts to be had, our greedy little friends would most likely turn
    to acquiring pirated commercial fonts, much like they turn to acquiring pirated
    commercial music (maybe someone with the RIAA ought to be paying attention here).\r\n\r\nSo,
    rather than slamming the creators of freeware fonts, more people engaged in the
    selling of fonts ought to be thanking them: they do what they do because they
    love doing it and, in the process, they perform an invaluable service for those
    of us who do it for love AND money...or just money.\r\n\r\nThank you, Graham,
    and everyone else who satisfies the gluttons..."
  created: '2006-02-19 15:28:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Nick, that is positively the strangest explanation of possible free-font
    benefits I have ever heard!\r\n\r\nStranger things are true in our world, however.
    Who knows?"
  created: '2006-02-19 15:43:09'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Nick\r\n\r\nThanx for words, and agreed, one of the most unusual explanations
    on why we need freeware fonts.\r\n\r\nMy period on freeware fonts was started
    by an interest in doing something constuctive with my free time, and I will be
    the first to admit, quality went out the door. You end up on a spiral where you
    have to get more out, quicker, and you do end up learning, but usually at the
    expense of everything you should be doing. \r\n\r\nI quite making free stuff about
    two years ago, mainly due to the rudeness of a lot of people who were virtually
    demanding free stuff. I made a lot of friends, yes, but more rude, obnoxious people.
    Now I can take more time to learn properly as I go, and hopefully I will improve
    each time I make one.\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-19 22:09:27'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Graham,\r\n\r\nOne thing I, too, learned from my freeware font days about
    greedy freeloaders: their sense of entitlement is boundless, and they have WAY
    more enough gall to be divided into way more than three parts. And do remember:
    time spent doing something you love to do is never wasted, even--or especially--if
    you make some mistakes along the way. My favorite definition of an expert is someone
    who has made every mistake that can be made within a limited field of endeavor..."
  created: '2006-02-19 23:34:42'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "Ah, the unappreciated good-doers turned bitter by the cruel world! Always
    blaming others ...\r\n\r\n(How come I never had problems with leechers?)"
  created: '2006-02-20 09:37:13'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>(How come I never had problems with leechers?)</em>\r\n\r\nYou're fortunate,
    I suppose. A few examples from my experience (not their actual words, but their
    true intent):\r\n\r\nA. Hey, Nick, I really like this Blue Island font, but I
    don't want to pay for it. How about you make a free version of it? That way, the
    original designer gets screwed, you do lots of work for nothing, and I get the
    font for free...\r\n\r\nB. Hey, Nick, I spend hours playing with the type testers
    for your commercial fonts (although I never buy any of them); how about you make
    testers for all your freeware fonts, so I can waste <em>even more </em>of my time
    and your money (bandwidth fees) playing around?\r\n\r\nOn top of that, a number
    of freeloading free font sites were hot-linking back to my site, rather that hosting
    my free stuff on their servers. When the bill for excess bandwidth charges passed
    a thousand dollars in one year (to GIVE stuff away), I thought it was time to
    call it quits. Am I bitter? No: just a little wiser about the habits of the clueless,
    the greedy, and moral midgets in general...\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-20 13:35:23'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "\"Ah, the unappreciated good-doers turned bitter by the cruel world! Always
    blaming others.\"\r\n\r\nWell, incorrect. I am not bitter. Many people did and
    do show appreciation, and my view of it was the cynics and freeloaders were the
    ones getting bitter. The world for me is not cruel, just some of the idiots who
    inhabit it. Oops, sorry, just realised your comment was cynical, making you a
    cynic. \r\n\r\nWhy do you have no problems with leechers ? How would I know, maybe
    they just dont want your stuff. I had no problems with leechers, so why even bring
    this remark up. I had problems with the ignorant and arrogant, but not leechers.\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-20 21:34:35'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Why do you have no problems with leechers ? How would I know, maybe they
    just dont want your stuff.</em>\r\n\r\nGood point, Graham. I gave the world over
    200 free fonts, a lot of them (my early work) pretty much crap (part of the learning
    process), but a fair number of them were pretty decent (decent enough to get me
    licensing deals from Agfa-Monotype, Bitstream and ITC). So, what's your contribution
    to the greater good, Sergej?"
  created: '2006-02-20 23:50:05'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "First of all, it was tongue-in-cheek comment, so to call it cynical is probably
    reading too much into it.\r\n\r\nMy question, though, is serious \u2014 and I
    ask it not because I don't know the answer, but because I think it's relevant
    to this discussion. I'd like to know people's view on this in general, so there
    is not need to focus on my own situation, unless someone is interested in it personally.\r\n\r\nBy
    leechers I simply meant people Nick prefers to call freeloaders. A greedy, obnoxious
    freeloader demanding free stuff is still a freeloader ... Logically, it would
    be incorrect to claim that you didn't have problem with leechers. But allow me
    to take back what I said and rephrase my question:\r\n\r\nHow come I never had
    problems with any kind of freeloaders? (\u2014 While you did?)\r\n\r\n. . .\r\n\r\nActually,
    I want to take my question back and not rephrase it. It leaves a bad taste in
    my mouth no matter what I do with it. It's simply a wrong question to ask on Typophile.\r\n\r\nPS.
    Nick, let's talk about that later."
  created: '2006-02-26 00:30:08'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "\"anyone know websites that give loads of good free fonts?\"\r\n\r\nYeah,
    you can go here\r\n\r\n{link removed by moderator}\r\n\r\nbut it will likely take
    a bit-torrent nasty only a couple of minutes to completely compromise and gut
    your computer, and in the end you will have gotten exactly what you deserve.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand there are type designers who are part of the \"free font movment\"
    and how do original designs or reproduce historical stuff. Not everyone who offers
    free fonts is ripping someone off. To some extent these were the folks who furthered
    interest in more obscure historical fonts (such as turn-of-the-century fraktur,
    art deco, etc) when the major type vendors were simply not interested. Paul Lloyd,
    Dieter Speffmann, Manfred Klein, etc. Most of this stuff is sponsored at\r\n\r\nhttp://www.moorstation.org/typoasis/typoasis1.htm\r\n\r\nBut
    note that you are generally only getting a pretty face with no depth of beauty."
  created: '2006-02-26 04:31:00'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "Gerald, these aren't \"free fonts\", these are pirated commercial fonts for
    download. There is a difference. \r\n\r\nI can imagine many type designers who
    frequent here will not be too happy to see their fonts widely available for download
    inside that link."
  created: '2006-02-26 05:12:15'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Geoff\r\n\r\nNow, now, these folks are just \"sharing\"!!! \r\n\r\nHard to
    believe how blatant this is. My suspicions though are that, and I've suggested
    this before, none of these folks would ever buy a font anyway. This is basically
    just geek trinket-trade.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-02-26 06:42:58'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "* Sorry, double post!\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-26 07:43:18'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "Gerald, I didn't mean for my comment to be narky. :)\r\n\r\n I was just saying
    that the fonts in the link aren't really free fonts at all.\r\n\r\nI don't necessarily
    disagree with your statement that many of these people who download that torrent
    would never buy the fonts anyway. Nevertheless, it's still stealing, not sharing.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not overly familiar with EULA but aren't there restrictions?\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-26 07:43:19'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Geoff\r\n\r\nThis is another can of worms. But once you remove copying restrictions
    I really don't know that EULAs or any other measure can actually provide protection.
    In the early digital years, and pre-digital (analog) years, licensing was fairly
    clear, simply because proprietary interests were understood and legally binding.
    Once that was done away with (and not for the common good as one might assume),
    well, all hell breaks loose. I assume those with the most power and money, figured
    they would be the beneficiaries. And, actually, they were. But they still do the
    obligatory whining. But do you really think they actually care about someone copying
    their fonts? There are far bigger concerns at play.\r\n\r\nIt's the sole-product
    foundries like P22 and FontFont and Bitstream and Emigre that are hurt most by
    these \"sharing\" schemes, not Adobe or Microsoft or Linotype or Monotype Imaging.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-02-26 09:36:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'll just add that just because they won't be licensing the type anyway doesn't
    mean they should still be allowed to have access to the typefaces. You've got
    to pay to play, so to speak, and that holds for using typefaces too.
  created: '2006-02-26 18:31:22'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Tiffany\r\n\r\nYes, but, this is just finger wagging isn't it? Once the technology
    for unlicensed copying was put in place and Pandora's Box was opened, it became
    a matter of trying to legislate human nature.\r\n\r\nIn regard to our little corner
    of the world:\r\n\r\nThe early font wars were not over type sales, they were over
    who would control the method of transmission. Type sales were never a major part
    of Adobe, though they were quite important for name recognition. Adobe unlicensed
    its PS1 format as an attempt to make the PostScript Page Description Language
    the de facto standard. In doing so it eliminated the similar aspirations of its
    main competitor Bitstream. \r\n\r\nProviding the PS1 format to Altys literally
    opened the door for the indy foundry and for anyone else; all one had to do was
    buy a copy of FOG and you were in business whether with good intentions or no.
    Adobe wasn't concerned with all this sudden new unregulated competition because
    they controlled the means of transmission. And they had far larger plans for it.\r\n\r\nAdobe
    put a lot of free guns on the street, so to speak, because it owned the ammunition.
    And ammunition sales far outweigh gun sales. As a result there is a lot of gun
    play and we good folk are left with the meager option of telling the bad folk
    it's not nice to shoot off guns. Well, they are going to. Because they can.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-02-26 23:17:37'
- author:
    name: degregorio
    picture: 110554
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/romeral-2_5197.jpg]\r\n\r\n.\r\nRomeral
    is a good font of headers...\r\nThis is the specimen.\r\nhttp://www.isaiasloaiza.com/romeral.pdf\r\n\r\n\r\nYou
    can download it from\r\nhttp://www.typies.blogspot.com\r\n\r\n______________________________________________________\r\nJuan
    Pablo"
  created: '2006-12-07 18:34:16'
- author:
    name: "st\u0105giew"
    picture: 112237
  body: "<cite>\r\nPalatine:\r\n\"On the topic of Apostrophic Labs\u2019 Day Roman,
    a few questions:\r\nHow does it compare to similar commercial fonts? It looks
    like a quality typeface, but without italics, unfortunately. DTL Van den Keere
    is one possiblity. Are there any others?\"\r\n</cite>\r\n\r\nI'm not a font expert,
    but i've run across this free font: \r\n<a>http://moorstation.org/typoasis/designers/klein05/text/medieval.htm</a>\r\n(from
    typoasis), which could work with Day Roman. The problem is that MedievalItalique
    is quite tight, and Day Roman is much lighter.\r\n\r\nWhat do you think?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/example01_4403.jpg]"
  created: '2007-02-12 23:09:13'
- author:
    name: dsdesigns86
  body: "Hello Everyone!\r\n\r\nIm currently looking for artists and type lovers to
    help fill the pages of \"Type I Find\".\r\n\r\n\u2022Check out the site.\r\n\u2022Submit
    Some work.\r\n\u2022\"like\" it on Facebook.\r\n\r\nand spread the word to other
    type lovers!!!\r\n\r\nAlso, I have a few links to some \"free\" fonts on there.\r\n\r\nwww.typeifind.com[img:sites/default/files/old-images/typeifind_logo_5230.gif]"
  created: '2011-04-20 03:42:57'
- author:
    name: benedictbro
    picture: 116491
  body: "http://losttype.com/ http://losttype.com/ http://losttype.com/\r\n\r\nnice
    fonts"
  created: '2012-06-29 16:10:41'
date: '2006-01-17 09:32:35'
node_type: forum
title: free fonts

---
