---
author:
  name: William Berkson
  picture: 110306
body: "John Berry <a href=\"http://www.creativepro.com/story/feature/21312.html\">notes</a>
  that Mark van Bronkhorst's [[old style]] [[italic]] for his typeface Verdigris is
  exceptionally [[readability|readable]]. <a href=\"http://store.adobe.com/type/browser/F/MINP/F_MINP-10005310.html\">Minion's
  italic</a> is also quite successful in this respect, I think. \r\n\r\nI would be
  interested in people's views on what makes for a readable italic. For example, old
  style italics tend to have a great variety of different slants to the letters. Does
  making them more uniform help readability, or not? Do wider letters help? Handling
  of [[contrast]]? Smaller or bigger 'serifs'?\r\n\r\nI understand that often there
  is a desire to have the italic 'dance' more than the roman, and accept some lesser
  readibility for the sake of emphasis or decorative force. Still, within these constraints,
  how do people view the problem? \r\n\r\nAlso discussions of italics seem to be very
  rare, compared to discussions of romans. Any good references?   "
comments:
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: not that i've studied this at all, but my gut reaction is that simpler is
    more readable. I would think that ornamentation and high-contrast make an italic
    less readable, so shoot for simpler, lower-contrast forms???
  created: '2006-01-20 20:34:24'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I actually always liked the Linotype-technology Sabon italic. Some say that
    the fact that the italics had to be drawn on the roman proportions was a huge
    limitation, and of course it was. The Sabon italic was a bit too wide and unnatural,
    but on the other hand, it actually was quite widely spaced which I fould worked
    nicely. I see the same charasteristics in Verdigris italic, and I think it works
    very well! \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-20 20:52:53'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I have no idea but it is a very very good question.
  created: '2006-01-20 20:55:59'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "I am by no means an historian and have no developed theories nor have authoritative
    reference material to back it up, but it seems that even in the earliest of comparisons
    between Roman (inscription based) and italics (cursives) that indeed italics seem
    not only more fluid but facilitate reading.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/arrighi_italics.png]<em>Arrighi's
    letterfoms</em>\r\n\r\nIt may (and I emphasize 'may') be that informal penned
    forms were originally the most common expression of individual written communication
    (handwriting). Since most literate individuals can quickly write and decipher
    the majority of other peoples' handwriting, we may have developed a mental facility
    for decripting diverse and variable script forms. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/coornhert_incunab2.png]<a
    href=\"http://www.psymon.com/koster/coornhert.html\" target=\"new\"><em>Officia
    Ciceronis</em>(1561)</a>\r\n\r\nEven in the poor reproduction above, to me it
    seems easier to read the italics.\r\n\r\nSince most italic typefaces remain faithful
    to the earliest of typeface designs, and since the earliest of italics approximated
    Chancery scripts, the visual link back to human written forms remain."
  created: '2006-01-20 21:49:43'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "I would tend to agree with Paul and Adam, and taking it slightly further
    I would say that in most cases, what makes a legible roman makes a legible italic,
    for example: simple terminals, wide apertures, a reasonably large x-height, etc.\r\n\r\nSomething
    you probably wouldn't expect (and which some may disagree with me about) is that
    swashier caps (within reason) tend to <em>improve</em> legibility! I think this
    is mainly because it's an indication that the caps were designed to fit with the
    italic, as opposed to being ripped from the roman and skewed."
  created: '2006-01-20 21:53:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Even in the poor reproduction above, to me it seems easier to read the
    italics.\"\r\n\r\nActually, I think the opposite is true. To me the Roman reads
    much better than the italic.\r\nI interpreted Williams question to be about the
    readability of italics among themselves, not so much compared to their upright
    counterparts.\r\n\r\nTo me, the main issue with Italics is that they have sufficient
    separability from the upright to be noticeable without being alarmingly different
    in color. Since it is rare to see long passages of italic text, readability issues
    (tiring of the readers eyes) are not very relevant. What is sometimes done to
    create separation from roman is to slightly condense the italic yet lighten the
    weight a bit to counterbalance the color change. As Adam mentioned the Sabon went
    the other direction but was still handled quite well. It isn't so much how you
    do it as how well you do it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-20 22:18:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Readability and contrast-with-Roman are necessarily strongly opposed, for
    the simple reason that -hopefully- the Roman is the one made highly readable!
    That said, the dimension of difference that might least impede readability in
    an italic is color. So I think the \"best\" general italic is one with slight
    slant, a little bit of compression, maybe slightly smaller on the body, and visibly
    lighter in color. Also, to prevent it from skewing the \"voice\" of the Roman
    in an arbitrarily fluid/casual direction, the \"ideal\" italic is structurally
    quite close to the Roman. Hmmm, Harrier anyone?  :-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/nour&patria/dev/nour-latin.gif\r\n\r\nBUT:
    Since an italic <cite>is</cite> generally for subordinate snippets, its readability
    requirements are on the order of display types (ie not very great). Just as long
    as errant fixations are not triggered though.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-20 22:45:43'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "William, I apologize ahead of time if this doesn't follow the original intent
    of your topic, but I've thought more about the cognitive relationship between
    italics and handwriting.\r\n\r\nUp until recently, handwriting was an individual's
    most common means of informal communications and also the most practiced. Thoughts
    and feelings translated by one's mind through manual activity into visual notations
    that are then fed back through the eye for mental confirmation must have some
    benefit in one's ability to read script(my personal musing with no facts).\r\n\r\nNow
    all daily written communication (business and personal) is done by keyboard or
    phone keypad, with less time writing with pen or pencil. Eventually our facility
    for written communication will be heavily screen and typing based. In time reading
    and writing handwritten scripts will become less common and more difficult.\r\n\r\nWhether
    or not that might have any bearing on our ability to read italics is yet to be
    seen, that is of course, if there's any correlation at all between the ability
    to handwrite and the recognition of script forms.\r\n\r\nOn a personal note, for
    decades, I hand print my notes and letters much faster and more legibly using
    roman letters. My own handwriting has deteriorated and is slower for me to do
    than writing block letters within the past ten years. I would also say that at
    least 70% of my daily reading is done on screen, and maybe less than 2% of what
    I read is someone else's personal handwriting.\r\n\r\nI bring these thoughts up
    as just an awareness that may or may not have an affect on how the majority of
    us read and write. If it does, then that will affect how, why and what new typefaces
    are designed for... roman, italics, scripts, et al.\r\n\r\nSigning off... no more
    off-topic intrusions."
  created: '2006-01-20 23:17:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I think Norbert is right that for e.g. Aldus'' contemporaries, italic text
    was closer to what they were reading on a daily basis than the more formal roman
    types, and that readers were equally comfortable with both and may even have been
    more comfortable reading the italic types. It is important to remember that our
    contrastive use of italics in predominantly roman text is a later convention,
    and that the primary distinction is between formal and cursive writing models,
    between the book hand and the chancery hand. This is a distinction that is not
    limited to the Latin script: you find exactly the same thing in other mature manuscript
    traditions, e.g. Hebrew (with the added, third class of the semi-formal rashi
    style). The convention of use is not usually contrastive of different kinds of
    text within the same book, but contrastive of different kinds of books.'
  created: '2006-01-20 23:56:35'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "> <cite>I would be interested in people\u2019s views on what makes for a
    readable italic.</cite>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.theconnection.org/photogallery/fonts/default.asp?counter=8\">National
    Geographic Caption</a> (Matthew Carter, 1979) is a fine, and well-known, example
    of a stand-alone italic (no companion upright style) <em>designed</em> to be as
    readable [to the present-day reader], as a roman typeface."
  created: '2006-01-21 00:49:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Norbert, I don't really buy that italic was ever as readable as Aldus's Roman.
    What Jenson and Griffo and Garamond figured out was, I think, how to make type
    *more* readable than written letters. \r\n\r\nI forget where I read that the most
    readable is lower case serif type, and whenever you depart from it it slows the
    reader down. I believe it. \r\n\r\nMy question was, given that italic is slower,
    what can you do to reduce the difficulties. Thanks, Maxim, for the example of
    Carter's National Geographic italic. It solves the problem, it seems, by making
    an italic the same weight and width as the roman. That works admirably for his
    purpose, but wouldn't be so good as a companion italic. So of the different ways
    you can move toward the roman, which is most helpful? Or are there othere ways
    to achieve greater readability, other than increasing width, reducing slant, increasing
    weight? "
  created: '2006-01-21 03:03:55'
- author:
    name: Maxim Zhukov
    picture: 110611
  body: "> <cite>It solves the problem, it seems, by making an italic the same weight
    and width as the roman.</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's not just the weight and the width...\r\n\r\n\"A
    drawing comparing Carter's National Geographic Caption (1979) to the magazine's
    previously used Roman and Italic typefaces. The overall weight and proportions
    are about the same, but the new design slants less than Italic and is as wide
    as Roman.\" [<em>Source</em>: Washington University in St. Louis News & Information
    > University News > <em>Typographically Speaking</em> at Des Lee Oct. 10\u2013Nov.
    29 [2003]. Exhibition examines work of Matthew Carter, among the 20th century's
    preeminent type designers. By Liam Otten][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Natl_Geo_Capt.jpg]"
  created: '2006-01-21 03:48:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> wouldn\u2019t be so good as a companion italic.\r\n\r\nTrue, but I think
    simply making it lighter would allow it to\r\nclick as a companion (without impeding
    readability much).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-21 03:54:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "But the National Geographic Caption typeface was never intended to be a companion
    to a roman in the sense that the regular italic type was. It is an example of
    an italic designed to be used alone, and also at a smaller size than the regular
    types.\r\n\r\nMy Constantia italic is another example of a wide italic, proportionally
    similar to the roman and, generally, setting only slightly shorter than the same
    text in the roman. In this case, of course, the aim was not general readability
    but specific readability in the context of ClearType screen rendering. In that
    case is it slightly lighter than the roman, and intended to be a companion to
    it and not a stand alone italic type."
  created: '2006-01-21 04:34:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What Jenson and Griffo and Garamond figured out was, I think, how to
    make type *more* readable than written letters.</em>\r\n\r\nBut they were building
    on top of a distinction that had already been made, between formal book hands
    and running chancery hands, and which already exhibited different levels of readability.
    The key distinction, in the manuscript tradition, is of speed: the formal book
    hand is written slowly, without returning strokes, and tends to be more regular
    and less compressed. The running hand is faster, and with this comes slant and
    compression. What is interesting is that development of the less readable italic
    type followed that of the more readable roman, and was very popular both with
    printers -- since it allowed them to get more words on a page -- and with the
    reading public.\r\n\r\nRobert Bringhurst made the observation, during his keynote
    address at the ATypI conference in Vancouver, that at the time we are talking
    about everyone who was a reader was also a writer (usually in both sense of the
    word), and so recognised letterforms not only as a consumer but as a maker. This
    is similar to the point Norbert is making, I think. To know forms manually, through
    the regular making of them, may contribute to facility in cognitive recognition.
    So while italics may never have been more readable than romans, I have no trouble
    with the notion that italics may have been more readable for renaissance readers
    than they are for us."
  created: '2006-01-21 04:57:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it allowed them to get more words on a page\r\n\r\nBut -as I once tried
    to explain in my Daidala interview- narrow type isn't necessarily more economical;
    for the simple reason that you're losing apparent size in the process. Basically,
    it depends on the proportion of line breaks. Which is why Luce and Fournier called
    their narrow type \"poetique\": poetry -generally- breaks after every line, and
    that makes narrow type directly more economical.\r\n\r\nAlso, I have actually
    heard an expert or two claim that the view that Aldus used italic type because
    it was narrow because he was making smaller books is ballony.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-21 05:15:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Well, Aldus did use italic types for text in his smaller format books, and
    used roman in the larger and grander productions like the <em>Hypnerotomachia,</em>
    but it would indeed be reductionist balloney to claim that the motivation was
    economical. Unfortunately, most of the other motivations ascribed to Aldus by
    print historians are also dubious, because the people making them are print historians
    and they've largely ignored the manuscript culture within which Aldus is producing
    his books.\r\n\r\nWe shouldn't imagine that because Aldus is doing something that
    has not been done before <em>in type</em> that he is doing something that has
    not been done before. He is applying the conventions of formal book hand and cursive
    chancery hand usage that were well established in Italian humanist manuscript
    production. The formal book hand is used in larger format volumes, usually prestigious
    productions intended to be experienced as objects of beauty as well as texts to
    be read. The chancery hand is used in more quickly produced, smaller books or
    booklets whose function is to transmit the text in a plain and convenient format.
    I've seen dozens of both kinds of manuscript books. Aldus was simply applying
    the distinction that already existed in the new medium of type. Unfortunately,
    most commentators on printing history know very little about manuscript production,
    so credit Aldus with the invention of the small format pocketbook, rather than
    the adaptation of an existing model to the new technology and market."
  created: '2006-01-21 08:29:36'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Verdigris Italic has quite open counters, especially in the h m n u -- their
    shoulders are not the typical sharp angles but round. This can already be found
    in the italics of Goudy's Truesdell and Village. It looks like Goudy adopted a
    form of shoulders which he first employed in his Mediaeval. Personally I like
    this trick because it allows to keep letterforms narrow.\r\n\r\n\"I don\u2019t
    really buy that italic was ever as readable as Aldus\u2019s Roman. ... I forget
    where I read that the most readable is lower case serif type, and whenever you
    depart from it it slows the reader down. I believe it.\"\r\n\r\nNo talk about
    textur/fraktur goes without the obligatory Bismarck quote, that no type is more
    readable than fraktur (as opposed to roman type), which is to amuse the audience:
    Nobody would subscribe to this TODAY. But this nicely indicates that whether roman,
    italic, blackletter are regarded as being more readable is a matter of habitualisation
    rather than any form per se being more readable. Maybe we are already moving away
    from (serif) roman, towards sanserif, and in some decades nobody would question
    that sanserifs are \"most readable,\" and who needs these disturbing serifs which
    are a mere reminiscence of another technique of producing letterforms."
  created: '2006-01-21 10:15:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">their shoulders are not the typical sharp angles but round\r\n\r\nThanks
    Karsten, nice insight. That is the kind of thing I was looking for in my question--how
    to make the italic more readable without pushing it too far toward the roman.
    \ \r\n\r\nAnother example that had been puzzling me is Spectrum's italic, which
    seems quite readable, at least in short passages, in spite of being quite narrow.
    Now looking again, the round letters are quite open. And maybe the disparity of
    the narrow mn is not so good for even color...\r\n\r\nI can believe that fraktur
    is quite readable to anyone accustomed to it. Though I wonder if it can be printed
    at as small sizes without the hairlines becoming too thin or the letters clotted.
    Was fraktur generally printed at somewhat larger sizes than roman? I seem to remember
    old German books having bigger type... \r\n\r\nFor reasons that don't apply to
    fraktur and that I gave in <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/17236\">this thread</a>,
    I don't believe that sans will ever become dominant for printing extended text.
    \ "
  created: '2006-01-21 15:39:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Nobody would subscribe to this TODAY.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html\r\n\r\nKarsten,
    the total relativism of readability is a fallacy, and a damaging one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-21 15:58:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"But this nicely indicates that whether roman, italic, blackletter are regarded
    as being more readable is a matter of habitualization rather than any form per
    se being more readable.\"\r\n\r\nSounds more than plausible to me. The serif's
    expected triumph in readability beyond our current time could also well be a self-fulfilling
    prophesy. If the serif is continually touted as superior, it will continue to
    be used more often whether it indeed has traits above and beyond other forms or
    not.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-21 16:24:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes Chris, the next time your optometrist wants to up your prescription,
    tell him that you'd rather just read legal disclaimers and simply get used to
    the small type. What better than getting one's physical realities to promptly
    evaporate into the relativist ether, eh?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-21 16:50:39'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Was fraktur generally printed at somewhat larger sizes than roman? I
    seem to remember old German books having bigger type\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nNo. Frakturs
    can be small, and not break apart. I recently had a chance to photograph a bunch
    of old specimens, mostly from Frankfurt c. 1680. There are quite a few fraktur
    types there that are six to eight point, and very clear. Unfortunately, I can't
    show any of these images before March.\r\n\r\nSmall Frakturs just have less stroke
    contrast, probably like all small type, I guess.\r\n\r\nSchwabachers were also
    made in quite small sizes, incidentally. But I wonder if Texturas ever really
    were. Gutenberg and his successors in Mainz printed with type that I find to be
    quite large.\r\n\r\nNone of this is scientific. I've never done any real studies
    on this, but this is all a gut feeling."
  created: '2006-01-21 17:15:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "One thing about italics, at least in the pre-digital era, was that they fitted
    a lot better than romans, without kerning.\r\n\r\nThis was an idea I discovered
    and explored in Oneleigh Italic, where I was able to design the face no kerning
    between lower-case letters, and only one or two Cap-lowercase kerns.\r\n\r\nI'm
    not convinced this smooth fit is necessarily an advantage, as it can tend towards
    an indiscriminate greyness; but on the other hand, roman text is prone to occasionally
    exhibiting really awkward glyph combinations which can't be good for fluent reading."
  created: '2006-01-21 20:26:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But this nicely indicates that whether roman, italic, blackletter are
    <strong>regarded</strong> as being more readable is a matter of habitualization
    rather than any form per se being more readable.</em> [My emphasis]\r\n\r\nKarsten
    is right that what people <em>regard</em> as more readable isn't necessarily related
    to whether that form is actually more readable. I'm not sure that this is the
    point that Karsten was intending to make, and other respondents seem to have assumed
    that he meant something else, but that word 'regarded' is key. In determining
    whether one form of lettering is actually more readable than another, one needs
    to compare speed and accuracy test results for competent and habitual readers
    of either form. Obviously if someone had spent his whole life reading fraktur
    and is suddenly presented with roman type, he is likely to find the latter more
    difficult to read. But it is an error to presume from this experience that fraktur
    is per se more readable than roman.\r\n\r\nAs I wrote above, I have little doubt
    that renaissance readers found italic text to be easier to read than we find it,
    but that is an entirely different question from whether they actually found it
    to be as easy to read as roman. And that in turn is a different question from
    which they <em>regarded</em> as easier to read. I might regard typeface X as more
    readable than typeface Y, but until I do a comparative test of reading speed and
    accuracy for both types, I have to accept that my perception may be incorrect."
  created: '2006-01-21 21:32:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "For me the question is not whether italic is less readable, but rather the
    factors that make it so. Karsten notes the 'pointy' arches. Here what is interesting
    about Verdigris is that it rounds the arches while keeping the letters on the
    narrow side. (Or so it seems, I don't have the font.) John, I notice your Constantia
    Italic has small serifs for an italic--perhaps because of the demands of cleartype.
    Do you think that this contributes to readiblity?\r\n\r\nOverall, I wonder which
    of the factors--wider letters, heavier weight, less steep angle, rounded letters,
    small serifs--have what impact. Anyway, thanks to all for your contributions.
    Any more ideas are most welcome. "
  created: '2006-01-21 21:48:27'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "[I must apologize in advance for a very long post!]\r\n\r\nI am not an advocate
    of sanserifs either. Spectrum italic is really interesting. But I think it tends
    to being monotonous. This may relate to \r\n\r\nNick Shinn:\r\n\"One thing about
    italics ... was that they fitted a lot better than romans, without kerning. ...
    This was an idea I discovered and explored in Oneleigh Italic, where I was able
    to design the face no kerning between lower-case letters, and only one or two
    Cap-lowercase kerns.\"\r\n\r\nYes! This is the game, not only for italics: keep
    letterforms as compact as possible and avoid elements extending too far, yet at
    the same time make it LOOK vivid and irregular. By the way of irregularity and
    readability. In \"The Case for Legibility\", p.77, John Ryder shows a nice illustration
    of the different slants in minuscules of Jenson italic, and mentions that this
    unfortunately has been evened out in certain re-cuts.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson:\r\nMy
    use of \"regarded as readable\" is a bit ambivalent indeed.\r\nOn the one hand,
    I doubt the value of readability tests. As you  also seem to imply, you can never
    be sure WHAT the results actually proove -- that people are used to certain forms?
    or that certain forms are \"objectively more readable\" by whatever criteria?
    These tests can only show THAT, at a particular time and place, people read certain
    typefaces faster than they read other ones.\r\nBut I didn't intend to make a difference
    between \"scientifically provable\" readability and merely \"felt\" readability.
    My emphasis was on \"FORM PER SE being more readable\" which notion doesn't make
    any sense to me. See the following off-topic part.\r\n\r\nThis may be a bit off-topic,
    but ...\r\n\r\nhhp:\r\n\"Karsten, the total relativism of readability is a fallacy,
    and a damaging one.\"\r\n\r\nSorry, I am \"relativist\" by default. Yet I am not
    fond of this term -- whenever I encounter it in philosophical writings, it is
    the last weapon used by naive-realist dogmatists. Ernst von Glasersfeld has some
    nice reply to that in his \"Radical Constructivism\" (the book's biggest fault
    is its silly title).   ;-)\r\n\r\nThat aside ... you don't need to convince me
    of the advantages of fraktur. Yes, it is more condensed and its baroque-by-default
    forms may allow for more variation than roman. BUT: Give someone a text set in
    fraktur to read, and he will be in trouble. What IS readability? Of course you
    can conceive of some criteria and \"measure\" fraktur and roman against them,
    \"objectively.\" (Now you have to tell me what \"objective\" means. HAVING some
    criteria at all? How do you decide which criteria are the relevant ones?) But
    then you also have to tell the rest of the world (Germans included) that fraktur
    is \"objectively\" better and they should learn to read it -- so obviously there
    is more to readability than criteria like letters per page, &c. \r\nRoman typefaces
    of the last decades have proven that much is possible in this domain too, in terms
    of readability as well as expression. It is a fact: We are USED to reading roman
    letterforms.\r\n(I don't regret that. Except maybe for the long-s / end-s distinction
    which nicely indicated where you could divide a word, and where you couldn't.)\r\n\r\nThe
    link to your website, part 2: I haven't been at ATypI Leipzig, and only heard
    about the panel discussion. (Volker K\xFCster was my type design teacher.)\r\nI
    cannot help thinking that \"modernizing fraktur for contemporary use\" is cheating.
    The result will either be too much of fraktur and of no use, or not fraktur any
    more ... There already were such attempts, around 1930, to \"modernize\" textur
    type and bring them \"up to date.\" Element, National and Tannenberg. If you study
    these typefaces carefully you will realize that they are the exact equivalent
    to Futura and its contemporaries -- reduction. If you look at National you'll
    notice the normalized S and s and k forms, or the one-storey a (this is Futura
    translated into blackletter!), but also the additional vertical part to the r's
    ear and the additional vertical connecting part at the e's slope -- both of which
    have a visual function, but can also be interpreted to utter a deep misunderstanding
    of textur laws of form. These are very extreme examples (in many respects) but,
    to me are proof that something is wrong about this approach.\r\n\r\nWhich finally
    leads me back to the topic ... \r\n\r\nI consider it more fruitful to study good
    fraktur and textur type, or early roman types like that of Sweynheym & Pannartz,
    to find out if they have features which would enhance type today. For me this
    is not particular letterforms but very \"abstract\" things like a dark color (remember
    the complaints about Dolly on a thread next door? someone got it but didn't understand),
    compact letterforms which make spacing and kerning easier (see Nick's remark above),
    or a certain irregularity (like varying slants in italics). Unfortunately, Grotext
    is not finished yet which is such an experiment.\r\n\r\nHope I did not waste your
    time. ;-)\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-01-21 22:43:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"It is impossible to say anything about the autonomous typographic letter
    without calling to mind this historiographic falsification. Falsification is a
    familiar phenomenon in science. Scholars revert to it when the theory on which
    they have spent a lifetime threatens to be swept away.\"\r\n\r\npp. 18, Gerrit
    Nooordzij, \"The Stroke\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-21 23:18:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nI don't know if you count me as one of the \"other respondents [who]
    seem to have assumed that he meant something else\" or not. I assure you that
    the word \"regarded\" is the prime factor I addressed. \"Regarded\" is more often
    what we act on than what may be indicated in any data collected. Too often people
    look at the conclusion drawn or postulated reasoning for the effect being measured
    instead of scrutinizing the way the testing was done and what we may draw from
    that limited spectrum. Testing that measures complexity and redundancy of saccades
    in types in use today can easily be \"regarded\" as a measure for types to come
    in use in the future. I don't pretend to know what they will be any more than
    the  blackletter reading people of years past knew would come after their time.
    The concept of \"habitualization\" has never been fully addressed perhaps because
    it is too difficult to measure. Those who make type selection decisions make their
    decisions mostly on what they \"regard\" as the best selection whether it in fact
    is or not. They may listen more to those who TO THEM are \"regarded\" to be the
    experts whether they in fact are or not. \r\nMy intent with all of this is that
    we not close the doors to what might prove to be a better tool or methodology
    because \"the theory on which they have spent a lifetime threatens to be swept
    away.\u201D\r\n \r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-21 23:47:25'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I always try to avoid the psychological aspect. Comparing readability of
    fraktur vs roman may be easy though -- I would not consider a type readable if
    readers have to guess first whether a form represents an A or U, or an S or G,
    or a long-s or f. Comparing readability of two serif typefaces may be a bit more
    difficile; the measure today is reading speed, which includes questions like,
    we filmed his eye movement and made sure he viewed all text, but did he understand
    it? So it even touches the meaning of \"reading.\" (I know, this is also covered
    by text related questions to be answered.) But my point is, if by tests we find
    out about reading speed, do we get to know MORE than this fact, more than information
    about reading speed related to texts set in a certain typeface (in a certain size,
    with certain leading, spacing, printed in a certain color -- black is not the
    same as black --, by a certain printing method, on a certain paper, of a certain
    texture, and color &c)? Similarly, what does it mean if the outcome of such a
    reading test is that \"black on white is more readable than blue on yellow\"?
    Which blue, which yellow, what were the lightning conditions, or the atmosphere
    in the room? You can make everything look scientific by systematizing factors
    and eliminating others. But which factors are important and which aren't? My point
    is, by the sole fact that a typefaces is \"read\" a higher speed, which inferences
    may we draw, and what would be over-interpretation?\r\n\r\nBut, after Bill's last
    clarifications, this turns out to be off-topic musing."
  created: '2006-01-22 00:23:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The question was easier to read, not faster to read.\r\nWhaddaya want, the
    Mickey D of typefaces?\r\nThese are banal parameters with which to measure the
    worth of a typeface.\r\nWhy not ask whether it's more enjoyable to read?\r\nWhether
    it enriches the text more?\r\nWhether it makes your head spin and transports you
    to a magical place?\r\nBut of course, that can't be measured.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-22 00:58:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> One thing about italics, at least in the pre-digital era, was\r\n> that
    they fitted a lot better than romans, without kerning.\r\n\r\n?!\r\n(But I'll
    wait a little bit more for some other people to counter this...)\r\n\r\n> keep
    letterforms as compact as possible and avoid elements extending too far\r\n\r\nThis
    is anti-readability.\r\n\r\n> make it LOOK vivid and irregular.\r\n\r\nThis is
    artificial and not inherently supportive of readability.\r\n\r\n> These tests
    can only show THAT, at a particular time and place,\r\n> people read certain typefaces
    faster than they read other ones.\r\n\r\nYou are basing that merely on a preconceived
    ideology. Tests can\r\nshow a lot more than that. The fact they haven't yet means
    little.\r\n\r\n> Sorry, I am \u201Crelativist\u201D by default.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry
    too.\r\n\r\n> Give someone a text set in fraktur to read, and he will be in trouble.\r\n\r\n1)
    For how long?\r\n2) Then what happens?\r\n3) What kind of fraktur? What IS fraktur?\r\n\r\n>
    The result will either be too much of fraktur\r\n> and of no use, or not fraktur
    any more \r\n\r\nHey, I thought you were a relativist?\r\nThat's really way too
    puritanical, no?\r\nTo me Design is about serving, not sermons.\r\n\r\n> There
    already were such attempts\r\n\r\nThose were junk. Not what I'm talking about.\r\n\r\n>
    I consider it more fruitful to study good fraktur and textur type,\r\n> or early
    roman types like that of Sweynheym & Pannartz, to find out\r\n> if they have features
    which would enhance type today.\r\n\r\nAssuming you would then actually do something
    about what you find, how is it different than what I'm proposing? What you will
    find are things that are anti-Roman. Then what will you do?\r\n\r\nBut anyway,
    why bother, since you're a relativist?\r\n\r\n> \"Falsification is a familiar
    phenomenon in science.\"\r\n\r\nAnd thick blinders are a familiar accessory of
    relativists.\r\nGerrit \"printing was a fall\" Noordzij indeed...\r\n\r\n> The
    concept of \u201Chabitualization\u201D has never been fully\r\n> addressed perhaps
    because it is too difficult to measure.\r\n\r\nI think it's because almost everybody
    who puts it on a pedestal and\r\nworships it worries -rightly- that it will turn
    out to be a diversion.\r\n\r\nThe centrality of Familiarity is used as an escape
    by all kinds of people, from Luddite chirographers to PoMo hooligans. What's telling
    and hilarious -if in a sad way- is that none of these people ever bother to actually
    research it!\r\n\r\nFamiliarity is difficult to measure?! Try readability!\r\nBut
    the real fallacy here is this classical Modernism:\r\n\"What can't be counted
    doesn't count.\"\r\n\r\n> The question was easier to read, not faster to read.\r\n\r\nSame
    thing (when measured long enough).\r\n\r\nWhat's truly banal is Style, expression
    for the sake of erecting a designer's nipples.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-22 01:27:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think it\u2019s because almost everybody who puts it on a pedestal and\r\n>
    worships it worries -rightly- that it will turn out to be a diversion.\r\n\r\nOR:\r\nThe
    type of person who latches onto Familiarity is the type of\r\nperson likely to
    shun analysis; he will avoid true, objective\r\nresearch into it, so never really
    discover it's a diversion;\r\nand maybe he knows that - and that's an impenetrable\r\nfortress
    right there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-22 01:50:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I confess to getting a little tired of musing about readability in the abstract--which
    I have done my share of. Because we don't have good tests the talk doesn't lead
    much of anywhere. \r\n\r\nI am looking not at what is tested or proven or in general
    true, but what people find for themselves. Eg. Karsten's observation about Goudy
    and how van Bronkhorst applied the idea in another way. And at least one astute
    observer--John Berry--saw the difference in readability--and so do I. Others may
    disagree, but I am interested in what people's eyes and experimentation tells
    them, even though it may not be generally true. \r\n\r\nSomeone mention Jenson's
    variation in slope. I just checked Adobe Jenson, and indeed it has a lot of variation,
    but still manages to be pretty readable even though it has a lot of character.
    What did Slimbach do to pull it off? "
  created: '2006-01-22 02:07:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, I notice your Constantia Italic has small serifs for an italic\u2014perhaps
    because of the demands of cleartype. Do you think that this contributes to readiblity?</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    length of the serifs is related to their horizontality. If the serifs were steeper
    they could be longer, but my aim in Constantia was to avoid cluttering the limited
    pixel space in the x-height range, so the serifs are quite flat and short."
  created: '2006-01-22 02:34:46'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "hhp:\r\nI don't get your point. You are argueing as if you want to counter
    me, but what you say actually supports me.\r\n\r\nKL -- \"keep letterforms as
    compact as possible and avoid elements extending too far\"\r\nhhp -- \"This is
    anti-readability.\"\r\nKL -- \"make it LOOK vivid and irregular.\"\r\nhhp -- \"This
    is artificial and not inherently supportive of readability.\"\r\n\r\nToo quick.
    Let me illustrate what I mean. Nick's Oneleigh Italic, at <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com\"
    target=\"new\">www.shinntype.com</a> (left column, 4th from bottom), is a really
    good example. It combines both aspects:\r\n(1) Letterforms are very compact. By
    \"compact\" I mean things like: Hooks at n m i are rather small, so the n or m
    fits into a square. p descender slant is very steep. f is anything but swashy
    which avoids collision. (If you [hhp] like it more swashy, it's no problem to
    do this by calt where the surrounding letter allow it.) The t horizontal bar is
    short towards the right side, so keeping it withing the square, but it doesn't
    hurt. The k bottom finial extends below the baseline, this again keeps the entire
    form within a square and avoids possible white space (and thus kerning) rightside.
    The g's lower bowl does not extend much either. &c. \r\n(2) Nevertheless -- maybe
    because of this -- the type looks very quirky. Which I find *enhances readability*
    (let me define: eases recognition of word images). Like, it is easy to make out
    p's alone by the different descender slant, the s by its movement to the left
    (again to fit the square, obviously), the k by descending below the baseline.
    &c. There is nothing \"artificial\" about it and can be fully accounted for by
    reason. ;-)\r\n\r\nNick Shinn:\r\n\"Whaddaya want, the Mickey D of typefaces?\"\r\n\r\n:)
    Readable, legible ... there's a distinction, but in English terminology I don't
    know which is which. \r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-01-22 14:01:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Legibility: \"the ease with which one letter can be told from the other\".\r\nReadability:
    \"the ease with which the eye can absorb the message and move along the line.\"\r\n\r\np.
    85, Types of Typefaces, by J. Ben Lieberman, 1967. This page also has pictures
    of Beatrice Warde of Monotype and Paul A. Bennet of Linotype, to whom the book
    is dedicated. I suspect the distinction of legibility and readablity at least
    goes back to them.\r\n\r\nSo I think Karsten, you mean 'legibility'.  \r\n\r\nOneleigh
    has its charm, but I do think readability is compromised. In the accompanying
    note on the face, Nick says that the italic is influenced by Goudy's 'Companion'
    typeface. Looking at Companion in Mac McGrew's book, the stress is more regular,
    but the strokes less 'within the box'. For example the k descends more below the
    basline, and to the right, requiring kerning. Oneleigh follows other Goudy italics
    in the rounded shoulders that Karsten points out. I would put Companion higher
    on 'readability,' though neither face is really aiming for that as a priority.
    \r\n\r\nThe challenge I am interested in here is how to achieve both expressiveness,
    which I think is to an extent desirable even in a text italic, and readability.\r\n\r\nAdobe
    Jenson has a great variety of slopes in the italic, but to me is more balanced
    and even in color than Oneleigh. The quirky look of Oneleigh is no doubt a deliberate
    goal of Nick, but here I am interested in how Slimbach pulls off the even color
    inspite of the variety of slants. It does have a *lot* of kerning, which you could
    say is \"cheating\" with a revival of a metal face, but the resulting look is
    great, which for me justifies it. \r\n\r\nIncidentally, by contrast, the italic
    of 'Goodchild,' Nick's Jenson-inspired font, is much more regular. Nick says he
    wanted to get away from the usually more calligraphic look of Jenson revivals.
    Also he gives it a large x height, so it is a different animal--more modern, as
    he says. "
  created: '2006-01-22 15:40:12'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Thank you for the legibility and readability definitions!\r\n\r\n\"I would
    put Companion higher on \u2018readability,\u2019 though neither face is really
    aiming for that as a priority.\"\r\n\"Incidentally, by contrast [with Jenson],
    the italic of \u2018Goodchild,\u2019 Nick\u2019s Jenson-inspired font, is much
    more regular.\"\r\n\r\nSo you tend toward the rather calm or modest typefaces.
    ;-)  It cannot be denied that Oneleigh is expressive, yet the exaggeration makes
    it easy to see the principles at work. These don't differ from the ones in Adobe
    Jenson Italic, though in Jenson they are much more subtle. Even in Jenson Italic,
    the t bar is very short, the f endings are far from being swashy. Especially note
    the y which tries to be compact; this becomes more obvious if compared to the
    swash alternate y. Part of the evenness in turn seems to result from similarly
    wide counters.\r\nAnother interesting thing which I see in Jenson Italic is that
    e.g. m n r stems are leftside curves while i or t stems are rightside curves.
    This may also add to (I think) legibility & thus readability.\r\nA lot of kerning
    doesn't mean cheating at all, and digital type need not imitate letterpress type.
    Not even in a revival. What I am interested in is to keep efforts in type design
    reasonable. One aspect is to avoid too much kerning, and \"compact\" letterforms
    help a lot. I see that this sounds worse than it is meant -- I don't make squarish
    letterforms myself and do kern terribly much.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-01-22 17:03:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks for pointing out Oneleigh Italic Karsten, now you made me want to
    buy the darn thing :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-22 17:28:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Karsten has explained my point about italics fitting better, by mentioning
    how the characters \"fill the square\". The character forms that differ most between
    roman and italic are v and w. In combination with round characters, it always
    seems like there is too much space around these in the roman. Some digital romans
    address this by giving v and w negative sidebearings, not something that was done
    in metal. Many others, like Adobe Garamond, have negative sidebearings and also
    negative kerning.\r\n\r\nThe round forms of v and w in the italic \"fill the square\"
    better."
  created: '2006-01-22 18:45:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I think Oneleigh and Adobe Jenson are much different in principle. Compare
    the a and c in the two faces. The stress in the a and c in Adobe Jenson--based
    on the calligraphic italic of Arrighi--is the same, with just some variation due
    to the width of the a. In Oneleigh the stress on the a and c seem to me to be
    quite different. The more uneven stress in Oneleigh is one contributor to the
    quirky feeling. \r\n\r\n>m n r stems are leftside curves while i or t stems are
    rightside curves.\r\n\r\nI don't understand what you mean here. What do you have
    in mind? --The lead in or serif of the mnr, including the more vertical part is
    thinner than the bottom of the stem; this seems to be general with italics. The
    slant of the i , though, seems more like the stem than the branch of the n.   "
  created: '2006-01-22 19:04:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> You are argueing as if you want to counter\r\n> me, but what you say actually
    supports me.\r\n\r\nIs it strange that we agree in some ways and disagree in others?\r\nBut
    if you're saying that we're agreeing completely, needless to\r\nsay I don't see
    that at all.\r\n\r\n> fits into a square\r\n\r\nAnd you think this helps readability?
    I don't.\r\nAnd really, based on other things you wrote,\r\nyou shouldn't either!
    \ :-/\r\n\r\n> The t horizontal bar is short towards the right side,\r\n> so keeping
    it withing the square, but it doesn\u2019t hurt.\r\n\r\nNo? I think it hurts plenty.
    Horizontality and a strong\r\nhead are how the \"t\" supports readability. Neither
    are there.\r\n\r\n> quirky ... eases recognition of word images\r\n\r\nWhen applied
    without an understanding of\r\nreadability, it can only do so by dumb luck.\r\n\r\nI'm
    the biggest fan of divergence in order to improve\r\nreadability! But the good
    foundation has to be there,\r\notherwise it's just random noise.\r\n\r\n> Readability:
    \u201Cthe ease with which the eye can\r\n> absorb the message and move along the
    line.\u201D\r\n\r\nThis I don't agree with. An essential dimension of\r\nreadability
    is duration/length. Without including this\r\nany definition just won't cut it
    in my book, so to speak.\r\n\r\n> kerning ... is \u201Ccheating\u201D with a revival
    of a metal face\r\n\r\nFor some reason I don't have a problem with that sort\r\nof
    thing. And few people -like Dan Carr- seem to, really.\r\n\r\nFor one thing, a
    discerning typographer could always file\r\ndown sorts to make them fit better
    (although of course it\r\ntakes too much effort to do it to pages and pages of
    text).\r\n\r\n> Karsten has explained my point about italics fitting better,\r\n>
    by mentioning how the characters \u201Cfill the square\u201D.\r\n\r\n(We're sort
    of migrating across threads now, but OK.)\r\n\r\nThe big problem with this direction
    of thought is that\r\nit's the lack/weakness of serifs promoting the boxiness,\r\nnot
    the slant. This is even before we get into the issue\r\nof the detriment of boxiness
    to readability...\r\n\r\nThe fact is that italics, due to the need to limit breakage\r\nand
    hence kerns, are necessarily fitted more poorly <cite>in the\r\npre-digital era!</cite>\r\n\r\n>
    it always seems like there is too much space around these in the roman. \r\n\r\nThe
    fatal flaw of this logic is the assumption that only black space\r\nconveys information*.
    Not to mention the direct opposition to the\r\nother thing in Oneleigh that Karsten
    points out: irregularity.\r\nThe two combine to imbalance the leveraging of notan.\r\n\r\n*
    A natural symptom of creation-centric (as opposed to\r\nuser-centric) design and/or
    the perception that a font\r\nis a bunch of shapes (as opposed to a notan machine).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-22 19:38:59'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "When I wrote that \"m n r stems are leftside curves while i or t stems are
    rightside curves,\" reference is neither to serifs nor to overall slant, but to
    the form/shape of the stems themselves:\r\n-- with n m r, vertical stems are like
    this: )\r\n-- with i t u, vertical stems are like this: (\r\n\r\n\"I think Oneleigh
    and Adobe Jenson are much different in principle. Compare the a and c in the two
    faces. The stress in the a and c [...]\"\r\n\r\nWhen using the word \"principle\"
    I didn't appeal to stress but to the square-trick in which respect they share
    a lot. When talking about stress however, you are definitely right. Btw, Oneleigh
    is very \"Goudy\" as regards stress! This kind of stress is Goudy type design
    humor at its best.\r\n\r\nhhp:\r\n\"fits into a square\" -- \"And you think this
    helps readability? I don\u2019t.\"\r\n\r\nThere is no direct link between fitting-into-a-square
    and readability. In my post I made two sections, (1) describes what I mean by
    \"compactness\", and (2) mentions that *some* effects of trying to keep letters
    compact (like different slants) enhance readability (for which I gave my then-definition).\r\nThe
    square-trick just makes type designer's job easier. We may not cut letters into
    lead blocks any more, but even with the latest and most advanced technology, the
    basics have not changed: Each letter is placed in a box with leftside and rightside
    flesh, and if you find that a particular pair would need special adjustment, you
    kern it. But: Kerning = hard work. So: If you have a chance to avoid it, do it.
    ;-)\r\n\r\nAbout irregularity and readability. In his text about Today Sans Serif,
    Albert-Jan Pool made an interesting remark: \"It [Today] looked so irregular,
    with each character featuring its own peculiarities. To my eyes it was sparkling
    with detail in all of its elements. It was one big idiosyncrasy. I showed him
    [Volker Kuester] my design and told him that I was striving for evenness and harmony
    by repeating as many forms as possible. Volker explained to me that he was doing
    exactly the opposite in order to achieve the same goal. This was how I started
    to get a visual grip on the interaction of readability and legibility [...]\"
    In Robert Norton: \"Types Best Remembered,\" Parsimony Press 1993.\r\n\r\n\"But
    if you\u2019re saying that we\u2019re agreeing completely, needless to say I don\u2019t
    see that at all.\"\r\n\r\nNever mind."
  created: '2006-01-22 21:11:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> *some* effects of trying to keep letters compact\r\n> (like different slants)
    enhance readability\r\n\r\n1) It seems your thoughts on \"compactness\" are black-centric.\r\n2)
    How do you think compactness helps, exactly?\r\n\r\n> The square-trick just makes
    type designer\u2019s job easier.\r\n\r\nYeah, and not designing fonts is even
    easier.\r\n\r\n> In his text about Today Sans Serif, Albert-Jan Pool ...\r\n\r\nI
    read that in the 90s.\r\n\r\n> Never mind.\r\n\r\nSure, whatever - it's your mind.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-22 21:28:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> > fits into a square\r\nAnd you think this helps readability? </em>\r\n\r\nYou're
    projecting again. \r\nI don't mention the \"R\" word or the \"L\" word anymore.\r\n\r\nI
    said that italics fitted better than romans, and qualified that by saying \"I
    don't know whether that's a good idea\""
  created: '2006-01-22 23:02:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> > fits into a square\r\nAnd you think this helps readability? </em>\r\n\r\nYou're
    projecting again. \r\nI don't mention the \"R\" word or the \"L\" word anymore.\r\n\r\nI
    said that italics fitted better than romans, and qualified that by saying \"I
    don't know whether that's a good idea\""
  created: '2006-01-22 23:02:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The fact is that italics, due to the need to limit breakage\r\nand hence
    kerns, are necessarily fitted more poorly in the\r\npre-digital era!</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't understand. Could you explain that a bit more?\r\n\r\n<em>> it always seems
    like there is too much space around these in the roman.\r\nThe fatal flaw of this
    logic is the assumption that only black space\r\nconveys information*.</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    saying \"it always seems\", I was recognizing that most people today, type designers
    and typographers, prefer to see the space around the v, w, and y tightened up.
    I don't think this is a logic, it's just what people like to see. It could even
    be considered a preference for a certain flavour of notan.\r\n\r\nYou're creating
    a straw man here, in order to launch your \"you don't know from notan\" missile. "
  created: '2006-01-22 23:18:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "\u2014 with n m r, vertical stems are like this: )\r\n\u2014 with i t u,
    vertical stems are like this: (\r\n\r\nThanks, Karsten, I now see what you mean--and
    I do think this might contribute to the success of the Adobe Jenson italic. Nicely
    observed. \r\n\r\nThese features are a part of the very clever way Slimbach handles
    the extremes of the strokes as they reverse themselves. This way he is able to
    introduce a lot of 'flare' to the strokes, which is part of the overall look of
    the italics, and which gives them a lot of energy but keeps them readable. The
    roman of Adobe Jenson has a lot of flare in the stems also, so it also unites
    the look, even though the models from the roman and italic are from different
    people. \r\n\r\nI see that Centaur's italic doesn't have the flare, so perhaps
    this is Slimbach's innovation. Impressive!"
  created: '2006-01-22 23:33:14'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: This is also a feature of the earlier Poetica as I see now.
  created: '2006-01-22 23:39:34'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Interesting. I see what you mean about Poetica. I think Poetica looks great
    large, but in small sizes--and not very small at that--it crashes in readibilty,
    whereas Adobe Jenson keeps on reading well at small sizes. Part of this is Poetica's
    narrowness, which in large size gives it tension and drama, whereas at small becomes
    very difficult to read. Jenson is wider--the m is 25% wider than Poetica, which
    is a lot--so that is an important factor, but I also wonder whether the darker
    weight and flairing stems of Jenson, and their affect on color is also helpful.
    \r\n\r\nBy the way comparing Poetica and Adobe Jenson at small sizes will show
    anybody who is doubtful that this readability stuff is for real. In large size
    both are perfectly legible, in the sense of telling readily one letter from another.
    But at small size the difference in readability is dramatic.\r\n\r\nAs you can
    tell, I am a big fan of Slimbach, especially his italics, which I think are really
    strong. "
  created: '2006-01-23 01:00:39'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I have found that italics with a steady and monotone rythm are harder to
    read, axis variation helps to reduce this effect.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-01-23 01:57:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t mention the \u201CR\u201D word or the \u201CL\u201D word anymore.\r\n\r\nWhich
    is admirably true to yourself. Thank you.\r\n\r\n> I said that italics fitted
    better than romans, and qualified\r\n> that by saying \u201CI don\u2019t know
    whether that\u2019s a good idea\u201D\r\n\r\n1) I was replying more to Karsten.\r\n2)
    Again: it's not italics, it's sans-ness you're actually talking about.\r\n\r\n>
    Could you explain that a bit more?\r\n\r\nActually, my wording was quite poor,
    sorry.\r\n\r\nI guess basically it ends up meaning that -in metal type- the undesirability
    of kerning* causes italics to be incomparable to Roman in terms of success of
    fitting.\r\n\r\n* In the metal sense of the word, not the digital.\r\n\r\n> most
    people today, type designers and typographers, prefer\r\n> to see the space around
    the v, w, and y tightened up.\r\n\r\n1) I would say that people always preferred
    that, but the physical limitations of metal made negative sidebearings not impossible
    but much more problematic, so it happened less.\r\n2) I thought you were providing
    an example of how Roman type is spaced more unevenly than italics; but like I've
    already pointed out: that's from the serifs, not the slant; and totally even color
    is totally bad (something we've argued about before). This is in fact something
    Karsten and you should talk about (if you two get over the thing I mentioned in
    that other thread).\r\n\r\n> a preference for a certain flavour of notan.\r\n\r\nHere
    you're once again leveraging your disregard for the subconscious\r\nneeds of the
    reader by classing everything under Style. Banal to the max.\r\n\r\n> Impressive!\r\n\r\nOn
    the other, the proper way to do that is via linguistic\r\nanalysis, not the context-free
    formalism of shape congruence.\r\n\r\n> will show anybody who is doubtful that
    this readability stuff is for real.\r\n\r\nBut they have to be looking. I don't
    mean occularly, but psychologically.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-23 02:02:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>your disregard for the subconscious needs of the reader </em>\r\n\r\nI
    care very deeply about the subconscious needs of the reader.\r\nI'm a caring kind
    of type designer.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-23 03:27:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I don't believe readers have subconscious needs; frankly, I'm far from convinced
    that there is any such thing as subconsciousness as a state distinguishable from
    unconsciousness. There are physiological and cognitive functions in reading of
    which the reader is <em>un</em>concious during the reading act, just like we are
    usually unconscious of the functions of breathing. But as with respiration, we
    can apply our conscious mind to reading if we wish, and like thinking about breathing,
    it doesn't help the process. :)\r\n\r\nThe other thing to note is that there is
    a huge amount of stuff of which we are unconscious that we will forever remain
    unconscious of, because it is outside of our sense perception. Again, like breathing:
    no matter how consciously we think about the act of breathing, we have no consciousness
    of what individual oxygen receptors in the lungs are doing, because we cannot
    sense them individually. Similarly, in reading, we are actually unconscious of
    how we recognise words in the brain, and no amount of conscious effort will make
    us conscious of that process. We can study what the brain does during reading,
    and we can make guesses about the process it uses based on tests designed to reveal
    things about the process, but that is not the same thing as being conscious of
    the activity. So if you want to talk about non-conscious needs in reading, call
    them what they are: unconscious, and beyond the grasp of consciousness.\r\n\r\nLeave
    the 'subconscious' to the Freudians."
  created: '2006-01-23 07:35:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I would be interested in people\u2019s views on what makes for a readable
    italic.\"\r\n\r\nI did an interesting exercise. . . \r\n\r\nI became curious about
    this issue first because people who generally don't know what they are talking
    about typographically, (which always leads to good avenues of investigation),
    \"decided\" that low contrast fonts were better for the screen than other fonts,
    presumably better than those of high contrast. After nodding along for while,
    I did some experiments that proved this low contrast bias is not only partly incorrect,
    but a really bad idea in some cases ;) \r\n\r\nWhat convinced me to investigate
    are three typographic truths: 1. that low contrast is not a good idea in the branches
    of letterforms, (they obviously nust taper toward the main stems), and 2. that
    low contrast serifs along our Latin baseline provide little or no help in reading,
    in fact they may well clog up the system (place argument here). And 3. I believe
    that in the brave new hintless world of CT, there has to be a way to make Romans
    and Italics that work for both print and screen... So, in pursuit of an answer,
    and because it don't lay in Sans, I drew Aldine Italic where the branching is
    seriously stressed, there are many fewer serifs along the baseline and, at least
    in Aldine and Kis Italics, contain more flexible topologies with which to experiment.
    \r\n\r\nAlong the way in this investigation, I had to pull apart \"our\" definition
    of Italic and reconstitute it, for myself at least as, \"the styles derived from
    the Aldine italics,\" and not the modern, san serif, or those Italics made to
    serve as very occasional companions to a Roman. So I drew. and drew, Andrew, (a
    decent font name, no?) What I found, is that Italics whose main strokes are lighter
    than the x-ht features, (and lighter than the main strokes of a Roman if companionized),
    and Italics with branch strokes and serifs at the same angle, or with serifs only1-2
    degrees less acute, but not much more, and using the unique features I could,
    e.g. a \"k\" with a good loop at the top of the x-ht, as opposed to a curly ball
    or a plainer serif... all really help reading, assuming you have not chosen bad
    angles. \r\n\r\nAnd, perhaps more important to a future chalk full of font fuzz,
    you can easily design an italic like this that does work with Roman in screen
    and print applications even with the dumbest rasterizer, and zero hints, proving
    the paraphrasing of a Jurassic park theme that type will find a way. Otherwise,
    I don't know how to make a series of weights, with matching Italics, for printer
    and screen, where screen = CT, and I don't mean Connecticut.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-23 16:00:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow, I haven't had to re-read a post so many times for a while...\r\n\r\nIn
    1-bit onscreen rendering, there is of course a threshold below which [too] many
    features become the same weight. That said, I do think the threshold MS adopted
    with their 90s core fonts was off by a couple of PPEMs - this because they took
    users' stated preference for \"light & airy\" type too seriously, ignoring the
    difference between deliberation and immersion. And this couple of PPEMs makes
    all the difference.\r\n\r\nIn gs onscreen rendering, I definitely agree that we
    can use more contrast than we're being given.\r\n\r\n> low contrast is not a good
    idea in the branches of letterforms\r\n\r\nYes, even Renner accepted that. But
    could that not be classed\r\nas an optical correction, as opposed to an \"intended\"
    feature?\r\n\r\n> low contrast serifs along our Latin baseline provide little
    or\r\n> no help in reading, in fact they may well clog up the system\r\n\r\nWow,
    an idea new to me. Where was it hiding all these years?!\r\nSo you're saying that
    you want baseline serifs to be light.\r\nI wonder if that's what people like Fleischmann
    were thinking\r\nback then too... Fascinating.\r\n\r\n> in the brave new hintless
    world of CT, there has to be a way\r\n> to make Romans and Italics that work for
    both print and screen\u2026\r\n\r\nHere I'm not making a [good] connection.\r\nDo
    you mean better than what MS has done?\r\nIf so (or otherwise) could you elaborate?\r\n\r\n>
    there are many fewer serifs along the baseline\r\n\r\nNow this is getting seriously
    interesting...\r\nSo we're talking semi-serifs here? This is an area that\r\nI've
    long thought needs much more serious attention then\r\nhas been given. And you
    did this -instead of making the\r\nfoot serifs lighter- because of screen constraints?\r\n\r\n>
    I had to pull apart \u201Cour\u201D definition of Italic and reconstitute it\r\n\r\nBravo.\r\n\r\n>
    Italics whose main strokes are lighter than the x-ht features\r\n\r\nWait, you're
    talking about stems thinner than like the top of the \"o\"?\r\nReminds me of a
    feature in Mandel's Colorado, although chances are\r\nthere's no real synergy.\r\n\r\n>
    Italics with branch strokes and ...\r\n\r\nFrom here on I'm pretty sure I'm lost.\r\n\r\nDavid,
    pitchurz please!!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-23 19:20:32'
- author:
    name: jim_rimmer
  body: "I have it in mind to design and cut an italic for \"Sonnets From the Portuguese\".
    The size would be 16 point and since I will be making it to fit the composition
    system of the Monotype machine I will be restricted in that there will be fixed
    unit values because I will be using an existing device (a wedge) which creates
    certain character widths as they are cast.\r\n\r\nI have my choice of  one for
    14 point which will make a narrower set of units widths for 16 point, and one
    for 18 point which I think will make the face much too wide; so I think the former
    is best.\r\n\r\nThis should be an interesting project, and I am aiming for a very
    verticalish italic; something like 1 degree, or perhaps even absolute vertical,
    depending on the italic form to make it italic. \r\n\r\nI doodled quite a few
    characters on the vertical and there is a tendency for it to look almost like
    it's falling over to the left!\r\n\r\nI have always felt that the less slanted
    italics were the most readable, but they are in many cases quite narrow and tightly
    fitted. This can be intimidating to wade through as extended text, but then I've
    always been one of those people who tend to scan over italic inserts of any length.
    Don't know why, because I like the grace of italics.\r\n\r\nI love the work of
    FW Goudy, but I've always found Deepdene Italic has a tendency to pack up in printing
    by letterpress, and I've seen quite a lot of litho work where the same thing happens.
    When we made digital Kaatskill at Lanston Type Co. I redrew Deepdene Italic to
    a wider setwidth and brought it into line with the Roman. In the two printings
    Goudy had a hand in using Kaatskill, he cast Deepdene Italic to align with it,
    because he had no budget to make a paired italic. It really didn't work. I think
    the Lanston pair are a little better. I  want to make it clear that there was
    precious little of design on my part in either Kaatskill roman or \"Kaatskill
    Italic\", since this was a simple redrawinbg of the work FWG had done, with some
    scaling. Anyway, I think it's a friend italic in its present form.\r\n\r\nJim"
  created: '2006-01-23 22:39:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> there is a tendency for it to look almost like it\u2019s falling over to
    the left!\r\n\r\nDue to the semi-serifs. BTW, I doubt\r\none degree would be enough;
    the slant\r\nin Rialto is the least I'd apply myself.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-23 22:47:24'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Jim, I have a 1957 version of the Elizabeth Barrett Browning sonnets you
    mention in a Stichting De Roos (Dutch--bibliphile society), set in Palatino Italic,
    at a rather small type size. Henk Krijger (the designer of the Raffia Initials)
    was the designer, and provided it with an EBB monogram. The version might bear
    you out in your comment on 'less slanted' italics.\r\n\r\nI'll post some images
    this evening."
  created: '2006-01-23 22:59:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "David, thanks for the fascinating ruminations on italic, which I think I
    even understood. \r\n\r\nYour idea that the x-height features need to be heavier
    than the stems applies to quite a few italics, I believe, including Verdigris
    and Adobe Jenson. \r\n\r\nThe serifs on an italic lower case do not define the
    line in a way that the roman serifs do, so I can see that dropping them might
    not affect readability much. On the other hand, I would think that it would be
    a problem keeping things in visual balance...\r\n\r\nJim, Spectrum's italic, mentioned
    earlier, is I believe also rather upright, though not what you contemplate. Perhaps
    it does contribute to its surprising readibility, given how 'swashy' and high
    contrast it is. "
  created: '2006-01-24 15:33:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The serifs on an italic lower case do not define the line in a\r\n> way
    that the roman serifs do, so I can see that dropping them\r\n> might not affect
    readability much.\r\n\r\nBut why not have full serifs in italics?\r\n(Not that
    I think \"defining the line\" is the relevance of serifs to readability.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-24 15:57:10'
- author:
    name: Mark van Bronkhorst
  body: "Greetings.\r\n\r\nPierre Haultin's relatively obscure italic attracted me
    for its strength and readability. It started the Verdigris project some ten years
    ago when I purchased a book from 1584 set almost entirely in it. Haultin's italic
    was the basis for Verdigris italic. \r\n\r\nI've yet to find a type specimen showing
    Haultin's italic. After buying a large number of facsilmiles without success,
    I turned to Matthew Carter, who confirmed my hunch that I was inspired by Haultin.\r\n\r\nYou'll
    find a sampling of it in Updike's Printing Types (unidentified) in a title page
    printed by the Giunta. \r\n\r\nI've always loved Sabon, but find the italic --
    forced onto roman widths -- annoying. Verdigris was influenced by Sabon. For Verdigris
    I wanted the same bookish, workhorse kind of a face, but with nice proportions,
    using the Granjon 'Garamond' as model for the roman (it has distinctive contrast
    in lowercase widths), Pierre Haultin's italic for the italic.\r\n\r\nOpen counters
    and moderate-to-low stroke contrast, with slightly irregular rhythm, are what
    make an italic work for me. Avoiding delicacy and prettiness was deliberate --
    I wanted to hint at little pieces of metal smashed into paper (italic TYPE) rather
    than something handwritten. I ditched Haultin's swashes I could have employed,
    and opted to 'modernize' certain forms to avoid quaint affectation.\r\n\r\nGoudy,
    whose types I once admired (and now can't stand), had nothing to do with Verdigris'
    inspiration. \r\n\r\nKerning is overrated. If faces could once deliver such even
    text in metal with a  handful of kern pairs, well-designed forms can do same digitally.
    I try to design forms that fit well together first, then we kern. One must still
    decide whether to kern for text or display. Faces that are over-kerned to look
    good as display behave poorly as text. Optical sizes are a good thing.\r\n\r\nMark
    van Bronkhorst\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 00:48:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> little pieces of metal smashed into paper\r\n\r\nIdeally not smashed. Smashed,
    on Jennifer Lopez's wedding invitation.\r\n\r\n> Kerning is overrated.\r\n\r\nType
    design is over-rated (by us).\r\nBut once dedicated to it, it's not only justifiable
    to worry a lot about kerning, but it's generally commendable. Luc[as] de Groot
    has pointed out that kerning often gets shortchanged on this side of the Atlantic
    (not least by expats). I agree, and see that fact as a cowboyism. There are good
    things about cowboys, but there are reason they're better at wrestling livestock
    than designing the little machines that are fonts.\r\n\r\n> If faces could once
    deliver such even text\r\n\r\nThey couldn't.\r\n(Especially not serif ones with
    small x-heights = book faces.)\r\n\r\n> I try to design forms that fit well together
    first, then we kern.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, ideally, not only base spacing,
    but the black\r\nforms themselves are often affected by the <cite>prospect</cite>
    of kerning.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 02:24:55'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: Mark, thanks for your very interesting account of Verdigris, and your views
    on italics. Did you also change the angle of the slant of Haultin's italic in
    making Verdigris italic?
  children:
  - author:
      name: Mark van Bronkhorst
    body: "The angle is pretty much as Haultin had it. \r\nMVB"
    created: '2006-03-27 19:56:30'
  - author:
      name: Mark van Bronkhorst
    body: "The angle is pretty much as Haultin had it.\r\nMVB"
    created: '2006-03-27 19:56:59'
  created: '2006-03-26 19:56:09'
date: '2006-01-20 19:50:06'
title: What makes an italic easier to read?

---
