---
author:
  name: andreas
  picture: 110541
body: "Today Georg Seifert posted on the OpenType developer list, his fraction feature
  will work in Adobe applications, but not in Quark 7. So I checked it for myself.\r\n\r\nHere
  is the link for public beta registration. http://www.quark.com/products/xpress/seven/beta.html\r\n\r\nAfter
  a short sign up you can download a 111MB beta version.\r\n\r\nUnder some circumstances,
  Quark 7 (win) seems to build the fractions not by using the compiled fraction feature,
  it uses the Denominator (dnom) and Numerator (numr) feature to build fractions by
  itself. If these features will be absent, but the fraction feature is still in the
  font data, Quark looses his ability to build fractions. Strange!\r\n\r\nSo maybe
  this a good time for all OpenType fighters to check out this beta and bombard the
  Quark staff with bug reports, to the good of our font customers.  \r\n\r\nAn other
  strange thing is, Quark is not able to use the OpenType family name fields and stays
  on the old windows four style name order.  \r\n\r\nedit: Quark handels Numerator
  and Denominator right, my fault. "
comments:
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "This actually is not strange at all. As far as I remember Quark's announcement
    (though I have not yet tried the beta), QuarkXPress 7 will not support contextual
    OpenType features. \"frac\" is contextual while \"numr\" and \"dnom\" are not.
    \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-22 09:02:34'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "I'm downloading the file now, but have heard reports that ALL features are
    off by default. Which, I assume, includes \"kern\". For Quark to start supporting
    OpenType completely all-at-once is asking too much; that's not how they roll.
    Contextual features are obviously overrated.\r\n\r\nSo, really, the title of this
    thread should be: Quark 7 public beta / let your opentype fonts test it."
  created: '2006-01-22 14:11:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"So, really, the title of this thread should be: Quark 7 public beta / let
    your opentype fonts test it.\"\r\n\r\nOr perhaps the thread should be called,
    \"Quark 7 public beta OpenType Crap-shoot\"\r\n:-)\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-22 17:38:43'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Topic is changed...\r\n\r\nI installed the Passport Version for Windows.
    The OpenType kerning option is on by default and available on the global project
    settings and its working.\r\n\r\nContextual substitution worked for a complex
    script font using alternates for beginning and end glyphs too. Only the fraction
    feature seems buggy to me on some fonts. Denominators and Numerators feature have
    to be present since fraction feature is not directly supported.\tScientific Inferiors
    are not activ in the menu but available in the font data. \r\n\r\nI'm not a fan
    of this software, but for all the quark users this version will be a step forward
    and it will grow the base for opentype fonts.\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-01-22 18:47:16'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Okay, having had the chance to try a few fonts, I am delighted to say that
    Andreas is right: kerning appears to be on by default. Although the oldest of
    the fonts I tested did not have its kerning in place. (InDesign does read the
    kerning from this font.)\r\n\r\nThe contextual alternate function DOES work with
    simple and slightly complex lookups, but NOT very complex lookups. Unlike InDe,
    calt is off by default.\r\n\r\nAs for those pesky \"style\" buttons...\r\nClicking
    the underline button does  NOT access the actual underline thickness and location
    specified in the font's code.\r\nClicking the StrikeThru [sic] button does  NOT
    access the actual strikethrough thickness and location specified in the font's
    code.\r\nClicking the All-Caps button DOES invoke the case feature.\r\nClicking
    the Small Caps button creates FAKE small caps instead of invoking the smcp feature.\r\nClicking
    the Superscript, Subscript, and Superior buttons simply scale and baseline shift,
    and do NOT access any feature code.\r\n\r\nSo, one of the stylistic buttons now
    actually does something right. Fantastic!\r\n\r\nThe OpenType menu is in a different
    order from the one in InDe; different strokes for different folks:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/QXP7_OpenType_menu.png]\r\n\r\nYou
    can compare that with Adobe CS2's OpenType menus posted here: http://vllg.com/files/cs2/\r\n\r\nThe
    numerals all switch as expected, although the interface is different from that
    of InDe.\r\n\r\nBesides the fact that I'm going to have to revise a year-old OT
    family so that the kerning works in QXP - which might be a FL45 vs FLS5 issue,
    not a QXP issue - I'm surprised and delighted. If Quark chooses to support Stylistic
    Sets, that would be tremendous. And they need to do something about those style
    buttons. Seriously. Hook them up right, or lose 'em.\r\n\r\nNOTE: I updated this
    posting after seeing that very complex contextual alternate code didn't work correctly."
  created: '2006-01-22 21:18:43'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "\"An other strange thing is, Quark is not able to use the OpenType family
    name fields and stays on the old windows four style name order.\"\r\n\r\nWorse
    [Mac version]:\r\n-- control palette shows (Mac) ID4 \r\n-- its font-list popup-menu
    shows ID1; in case only one style is installed, it shows ID4\r\n-- the next-level
    style popup-menu shows (Mac) ID4\r\n\r\nI'd wish it would, as other applications
    too, show:\r\n-- control palette: ID16+ID17 (if unavoidable: ID4)\r\n-- its font-list
    popup-menu: ID16\r\n-- its style-list popup-menu: ID17\r\nHonestly, in OT-savvy
    apps I don't want to see ID1, ID2 and even ID4. Maybe it is possible to combine
    ID16+space+ID17 if there are no separate fields?\r\n\r\nIn addition to Chester's
    post, also features \"liga\" and \"calt\" should be on by default.\r\n\r\nWho's
    going to report it?"
  created: '2006-01-22 23:33:10'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Everyone can write an report if you logged in the beta quark side. The best
    thing we could hope for is, that some of the developers in india read typophile
    too. :-)\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-01-22 23:45:02'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Andreas, I plan to send my reports to QuarkXPress. They'll never improve
    (unless we help them).\r\n\r\nHere's a fun bug: I've got a family with 7 weights
    in Roman + Italic. The real order, as it shows up in InDe, ImageReady, TextEdit,
    everything else compliant:\r\nThin\r\nThin Italic\r\nLight\r\nLight Italic\r\nBook\r\nBook
    Italic\r\nMedium\r\nMedium Italic\r\nBold\r\nBold Italic\r\nHeavy\r\nHeavy Italic\r\nUltra\r\nUltra
    Italic\r\n\r\nIn Quark 7 it's:\r\nThin Italic\r\nUltra Italic\r\nLight\r\nLight
    Italic\r\nBook\r\nBook Italic\r\nMedium\r\nMedium Italic\r\nBold\r\nBold Italic\r\nHeavy\r\nHeavy
    Italic\r\nThin\r\nUltra\r\n\r\nWhat the?"
  created: '2006-01-23 00:30:56'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Chester you are right, I was just joking. This is exactly why I set up the
    thread. The beta is out and its in our best interest that quark will handle opentype
    like the custumers could expect. I have done my report too, but I expect not too
    mutch from this standard answer html form. I thought its best we collect most
    of the issues in one thread and direct it to some of the lead developers. The
    world is small and I hope for the best.\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-01-23 00:48:34'
- author:
    name: schriftgestalt
    picture: 110805
  body: "Hello\r\nI got into this topic and posted it firts to the Opentype list.
    Two days later I had a direct email from one of the quark developers asking about
    my font. So they seem to follow this forums and are interested in fixing the bugs.\r\n\r\nYes,
    to include numr/dnom feature solved my original problem.\r\n\r\nGeorg S\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-23 01:16:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Clicking the Small Caps button creates FAKE small caps instead of invoking
    the smcp feature.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is actually a good idea, because it distinguishes
    between a faux feature and an OpenType feature. With the small caps feature in
    InD (at least, in CS1) there's no distinction."
  created: '2006-01-23 06:12:42'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> This is actually a good idea\r\n\r\nNo, it is not. It would have been a
    good idea if the Small Caps button only invoked OpenType smallcaps and would be
    otherwise disabled, while a \"Faux\" submenu would invoke faux small caps. Just
    like Photoshop CS/CS2 has \"Faux Italic\" and \"Faux Bold\". \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-23 11:56:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"It would have been a good idea if the Small Caps button only invoked OpenType
    smallcaps and would be otherwise disabled\"\r\nA better solution would be for
    a dislogue box to appear when no real small caps were available saying:\r\n \"There
    are no designed small caps available in this font. Would you like InD to create
    an approximation of small caps for you? (and the caveat: Results may vary, Adobe
    takes no responsibility for ugly small caps generated in this way. Press 'continue'
    only if you are the type of person who squooshes type regularly. )\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-23 14:27:56'
- author:
    name: eolson
    picture: 110439
  body: Chester, I'm getting the same menu list re-shuffle with all of my OT fonts
    too. Seems to happen with Adobe OT fonts as well.
  created: '2006-01-23 14:30:37'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I'm noticing that style links are not working for my fonts (Regular -> Bold,
    Regular -> Italic, etc.). I get fake bold and fake italic instead of the real
    bold and real italic. The Adobe OT fonts I have don't have this problem, except
    for Adobe Jenson Pro. The style linkings in my fonts work correctly in all other
    applications that I have tested, so I assume this is a bug, perhaps related to
    some of the other name problems discussed above.\r\n\r\nAlso, all OT fonts I have
    tried print out as Courier on my PostScript (clone) printer if I print directly
    from Quark. If I export to PDF, the fonts are correct in the PDF and print correctly
    from the PDF."
  created: '2006-01-23 15:03:36'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I've also noticed that one common kerning pair (AT) is ignored in one of my
    fonts. All the other pairs I've tried work as expected. I have not seen this in
    any other programs.
  created: '2006-01-23 15:18:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>It would have been a good idea if the Small Caps button only invoked
    OpenType smallcaps and would be otherwise disabled, while a \u201CFaux\u201D submenu
    would invoke faux small caps. </em>\r\n\r\nTake another look at the interface,
    Adam, that's the way it is! --\r\n\r\nThere are two main ways to specify \"small
    caps\" in Quark 7. One is from an icon on the tools palette -- this is a legacy
    \"word processing\" feature of Quark that's always been there. If you click on
    this with an OT font that has true small caps, you will get faux.\r\n\r\nThe other
    way is to go to the OT submenu on the tools palette, and scroll to the \"small
    caps\" command, where you will get true small caps in an OpenType font that has
    them, or nothing. Naux faux.\r\n\r\nThis arrangement makes more sense than InD
    (CS1, at least), where the Small Caps command will give you, for instance, Adobe
    Caslon OT true small caps, but Adobe Caslon Italic OT faux small caps, and no
    indication that they are faux.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-23 19:34:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Kerning is inconsistent -- some values are implemented, others ignored.\r\n\r\nThe
    Scientific Inferior feature doesn't seem to be supported -- \"subscript\" is bracketed
    out."
  created: '2006-01-23 20:00:08'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "\\\\\\ There are two main ways to specify \u201Csmall caps\u201D in Quark
    7. One is from an icon on the tools palette \u2014 this is a legacy \u201Cword
    processing\u201D feature of Quark that\u2019s always been there. If you click
    on this with an OT font that has true small caps, you will get faux. ///\r\n\r\nNot
    in my OT fonts. I get the small caps I created and coded when I hit the small
    caps button in InDe.\r\n\r\nI agree with Adam: If there are \"stylistic buttons\"
    in an application which call up standard OT features, they should invoke the features
    in fonts where they are coded. If someone hits the \"Caps\" button in InDesign,
    any caps and case features should be invoked, which would make all-caps setting
    look better.\r\n\r\nI am in favour of things looking better."
  created: '2006-01-23 22:28:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Not in my OT fonts.</em>\r\n\r\nJust to clarify that chester; when you
    select an OT font that contains true small caps, and you click on the \"small
    k\" button in the Quark 7 tools palette, you get true small caps?\r\n\r\n<em>I
    am in favour of things looking better.</em>\r\n\r\nGood for you. But surely the
    situation with Adobe Caslon Pro Small Caps would go against that: if someone clicks
    on the InD \"small caps\", they will end up with faux, perhaps under the assumption
    that they're getting true small caps, as they do with the roman -- it would be
    mortifying to only discover this once the job is in print.\r\n\r\nI too, agree
    with Adam, that the Photoshop palette, where Faux is named Faux, is the best way
    to call it."
  children:
  - author:
      name: .
    body: "Nick, when I have an OT font with coded small caps - Apex New in this case
      (plug plug plug!) - and I select some text and click the small k button, the
      coded small caps are NOT called. I'm pretty sure they were the first/last time
      I used the app, but today it's no-go. Very odd.\r\n\r\nHOWEVER, when I click
      the Big K button for All Caps, I get all caps, as well as the caps variants
      of punctuation which I coded into the font. \r\n\r\nWhen I select Small Caps
      from the OpenType menu, the ligatures do NOT revert to single letters as they
      should, as they do in InDe. This is a gigantic bug.\r\n\r\nI definitely hear
      what you're writing about the small caps switching to faux small caps with a
      change of face, or within a(n inconsistent) family. But I would rather the idle
      user invokes an OpenType feature by mistake than doesn't invoke it from ignorance.\r\n\r\nThat
      being said; clicking a style button should turn on the corresponding OpenType
      feature in the OT menu. InDesign does this. QXP doesn't have any \"real\" OT
      features doubled in their stylistic buttons and OpenType menu. You can only
      get All Caps by clicking the Big K button, which invokes OT code. You can't
      select All Caps from the OpenType menu. You can only get true small caps through
      the OpenType menu, and the little k button makes faux small caps.\r\n\r\nMy
      initial delight is changing to annoyance."
    created: '2006-01-24 22:38:26'
  created: '2006-01-24 20:22:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Adobe and Quark are trying to be too clever in their OpenType support.\r\n\r\nThe
    simplest and best thing to do would be to have two type palettes, one for basic
    typographic styling, and one for OT features.\r\nThe OT feature list would be
    confined to those features present in the selected font (no greying out or bracketing).\r\n\r\nIf
    the \"all caps\" button were clicked in the basic styling palette, and the OT
    case feature is present, then the Case button will light up in the OT panel. Similar
    thing with small caps.\r\n\r\nThe OT palette should also be available as a permanent
    display palette, not in a drop-down menu. Then users could highlight a piece of
    text and see what features are applied, and experiment with turning some on and
    off easily."
  created: '2006-01-24 23:09:50'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: I have discovered another problem with OpenType features in QXP 7. For example,
    if you use Central European accented glypgs (ccaron, uring...) in OT small caps
    or OT swash, the text is displayed correctly in an exported PDF. But if you try
    to copy-paste such text, you will get absurd glyphs, you can't also find the text
    string containing CE small caps glyphs using search tools in Acrobat. Basic Latin
    glyphs are not affected.
  created: '2006-01-31 18:59:38'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "For the record, the style linking problems I reported in Quark 7 beta were
    caused by something else, probably a font cache issue. This also seems to be the
    case with the printing issue. False alarm.\r\n\r\nThe kerning inconsistency is
    still there, though."
  created: '2006-02-08 03:54:59'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Filip, which OT font were you using? Is it all properly-Unicode indexed?
    Are the glyphs named things like \"ccaron_smcp\", or is it \"ccaron.smcp\"?\r\n\r\nAll
    of these problems with Quark make me think that it's definitely ready for release!
    \r\n^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^\r\nIRONY IRONY
    IRONY IRONY IRONY IRONY IRONY IRONY IRONY IRONY IRONY"
  created: '2006-02-08 04:12:31'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: I used several different fonts, mostly Adobe Pro fonts, with same result.
    I am sure, all glyphs had proper names. The problem doesn't probably affect printed
    results, but it leads to PDF you can't index or search through.
  created: '2006-02-09 13:07:36'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>Adobe and Quark are trying to be too clever in their OpenType support.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    simplest and best thing to do would be to have two type palettes, one for basic
    typographic styling, and one for OT features.\r\n\r\nI completely agree with this,
    and I think Adam is basically saying the same thing above about small caps. The
    fake styles should be clearly labled as such, with perhaps some other visual clue
    to the user that the OpenType feature is the default, intended method for applying
    styles. \r\n\r\nDoes anyone know of an application that currently does this?"
  created: '2006-02-09 16:12:16'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Filip, since the fonts are Adobe Pro, and almost certainly have proper Unicode
    indexing and glyph-naming, the problem must be with Quark's engine. The last time
    I used Quark much it was really hard to make PDFs from the application. What happens
    if you generate a PS file, and then use Acrobat Distiller?
  created: '2006-02-09 19:11:10'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: Chester, to tell you the truth, I am not interested in Quark at all. I was
    just curious, how it can handle Czech language. I've tested also Storm's and Brousil's
    OpenType fonts with same results. When I try to copy-paste Czech text set in small
    caps from the PDF in Acrobat 7, the application even crashes. I don't want to
    spend more time with it. I don't plan to use Quark 7 in future.
  created: '2006-02-10 10:55:35'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Filip,\r\n\r\nI think you have discovered the shortcomings of Adobe's use
    of the PUA to encode their stylistic variant glyphs."
  created: '2006-02-11 14:42:24'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I don't think that's it, or at least it's not the whole story. Else why would
    the Latin small caps - which also have PUA encodings - be unaffected?\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-02-14 01:56:02'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: so has anyone been reporting their OT issues to Quark? If so, are you contacting
    them directly or using their Quark beta forums? Just wondering how best to contact
    them...
  created: '2006-03-09 19:28:43'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Myfonts has posted a letter to all font sellers to test their fonts including
    a personal contact to Quark.\r\n\r\n***\r\nQuark's own forum about Quark 7 is
    here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.quark.com/service/forums/viewforum.php?f=34\r\n\r\nQuark's
    Scott Wieseler tells us the feedback is already proving useful, and that he \"would
    be very interested in receiving fresh fonts for testing. We have seen some of
    the feedback already and are looking into it.\" If you'd like to send your OpenType
    fonts to Scott, he welcomes them at <strong>swieseler AT quark DOT com</strong>.\r\n\r\nThe
    beta will stop working on March 31, but Scott says he'll be happy to discuss extensions
    with foundries who are still working on compatibility.\r\n***\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-03-10 17:04:41'
date: '2006-01-21 17:02:49'
title: Quark 7 public beta - let your opentype fonts test it

---
