---
author:
  name: Cristina Paoli
  picture: 110753
body: I just completed the MA Typo/Graphic Studies at LCC in London. My final project
  was about the use of blackletter in Mexico. I explored the possible reasons for
  its use, historical facts, and the shapes and tendencies of Mexican blackletters.
  From the photographic research performed in Mexico I found patterns and deviations
  in Mexican blackletters. Then I deconstructed each signage, ending up with more
  than 1500 individual characters. I removed the letters from its context and colour,
  transforming the colourful typographic elements of the original signs into black
  silhouettes. Afterwards I overlaid all characters of each letter in order to appreciate
  the most popular shapes, line strokes, elements and ornaments. The result is an
  X-Ray look-alike alphabet, that conveys the essence of Mexican blackletters.
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: This is just beautiful, Christina. Really, really nice. Do you have any publishing
    plans for the project?
  created: '2006-01-24 16:14:13'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "i'll buy one!\r\n\r\n------\r\nnc"
  created: '2006-01-24 16:52:54'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: 'What a cool project. Bigger pictures please! I''ve been curious about this
    topic for a while. '
  created: '2006-01-24 18:00:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wow - so you saw this through to a result as wonderful as it is needed.\r\n\r\nHow
    much is the book?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-24 18:16:39'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Wow. This is fantastic. Please do find a publisher for this. (Sorry, if I'm
    incorrectly assuming that this is a comped up version.)\r\n\r\nThe Brazilian publication,
    [[Tupigrafia]], may be a great lead for you to look into. They're very dedicated
    to bringing deserved attention to South American type design (and they're good
    at it)."
  created: '2006-01-24 18:39:43'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Rad.
  created: '2006-01-24 20:20:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'This looks amazing, Cristina. It also looks like it was A LOT of work.  '
  created: '2006-01-24 20:23:28'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "WOW!!! Thank you so much every one! \r\n\r\nIs not published yet. But I\u2019m
    trying, if not as a book at least as an article in a type magazine.\r\n\r\nAnyhow
    I\u2019m still very interested on the subject, so I\u2019ll keep researching,
    and built up a stronger historical background. Which I think now is going to be
    easier since I\u2019m back in Mexico now.\r\n\r\nI\u2019ll try to put up the PDF
    of the book for anyone interested.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Ross McClain
    body: "Cristiana\r\n\r\nHave you posted the PDF of your book yet? I'd love to
      get a copy. Great work!"
    created: '2006-04-13 15:41:04'
  created: '2006-01-24 22:46:16'
- author:
    name: pablocheco
    picture: 109652
  body: "Really cool Cristina... It\xB4s wonderful that you choosed this subject since
    the rich and great tradition of blackletters in almost every corner of Mexico.
    I\xB4ll rememeber you friday night when i go get my Corona six pack!!! http://www.corona.com.mx/index1.html"
  created: '2006-01-25 03:31:51'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Very nice, as a mexican I feel happy to see someone appreciates things like
    this.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-01-25 03:49:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Cristina, this looks really great. A bilingual Spanish-English publication
    would be a splendid thing.
  created: '2006-01-25 04:22:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Or even better, trilingual with German.\r\nIt might just help wake them up.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-25 04:39:24'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Dear all,\r\nThank you again for all your enthusiastic comments. I will keep
    you posted on the progress of this project.\r\n\r\nBy the way, thanks to the person
    that directed the publisher Mark Batty to the project. I\u2019m very exited with
    the possibilities that are been opening.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m attaching small size
    versions of 2 posters of the project, that I made for an exhibition.\r\n\r\nThe
    first one is a compound of all the characters gathered and the second one is a
    example text\u2026 is in Spanish, the translation is \u2018We are not the best,
    but we are the tastiest\u2019 this comes from the facia sign of a sandwich shop
    in Mexico City that I photographed for the project.\r\n\r\nUps! I don\u2019t know
    how to attach an image. Could any one instruct me on that matter\u2026"
  created: '2006-01-25 18:57:01'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "Cristina, congratulations on a great project and the possible publication.
    I'll buy it :)\r\n\r\nAbout the images, either edit your first post and attach
    it there, or use the small \"Insert Image\" link below the box where you type
    your message to insert an inline image with the text of a new message (you need
    to have Flash Player 8... the FAQ thread has more info).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-25 19:20:17'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "Double post, sorry!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-25 19:20:20'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: A better alternative to Batty might be Robin Kinross' <a href="http://www.hyphenpress.co.uk/">Hyphen
    Press</a> in London.
  created: '2006-01-25 21:11:37'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Batty's books are often bigger, with more images, no? Hyphen Press' books
    are all good, but they are more scholarly, text-based tomes\u2026 or at least
    the ones I've seen."
  created: '2006-01-25 22:09:42'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Finally... and thanks to Gabriel's advice: the posters\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Poster-1-Small.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Poster
    2 Small.jpg]"
  created: '2006-01-26 02:59:11'
- author:
    name: alya
  body: "woooowwww.....\r\nI know the project and i love it! i am happy everyone else
    likes it Cristina. I will not only buy this book but i will help to publish it.\r\na"
  created: '2006-01-26 09:37:22'
- author:
    name: Ramiro Espinoza
    picture: 110426
  body: "Very very nice!\r\nI will be eagerly  waiting for a copy...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-26 10:10:46'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Great posters, that frantic overlay is a peach.\r\nWhere/when is the exhibition?\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-01-26 15:53:49'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: This really would make an excellent exhibit. Perhaps even at St. Bride.
  created: '2006-01-26 16:46:17'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: 'Sounds like you will have to have the posters printed, Cristina! We would
    all like to have a set. I hope you find a gallery, library or publisher to mount
    an exhibition. Then you can have the posters and the catalog printed. Let us know.... '
  created: '2006-01-26 17:22:59'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Tim,\r\n\r\nThe posters were for an exhibition that some people from the
    MA Typo/Graphic Studies organized at the end of the year. We produced a catalogue,
    the exhibition itself and a web site, that is still going on: www.50designstudents.com
    \r\n\r\n(our MA used to be called the beautiful name of Typo/Graphic Studies,
    but now is called Graphic Design)\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-26 18:39:48'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Crossgrove,\r\n\r\nThank you for your great wishes. I'll keep everyone posted
    on what might become of this project. And you can be sure that if I manage to
    print this posters everyone that has supported me in this forum will get a free
    copy!\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-26 18:44:55'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Stephen, Dan, John Joe and Hrant,\r\n\r\nThank you for your advice. I\u2019m
    exploring all this possibilities.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-26 18:50:06'
- author:
    name: dotsara
    picture: 110573
  body: 'This is a gorgeous project. I dig the way you overlaid all the letters in
    that second image. Keep us updated on the posters and publishing! (:'
  created: '2006-01-27 03:17:52'
- author:
    name: aaron_carambula
    picture: 109990
  body: "As fascinated as I am by your gorgeous visuals, I crave cerebral satisfaction.
    I can only imagine the different cultural, social and religious reasons for Mexico's
    relationship to blackletter. I suppose you ought to keep things under wraps for
    publishing purposes, and so I wait.\r\n\r\nCongratulations on the excellent idea
    and the visual executions look fantastic."
  created: '2006-01-27 03:48:47'
- author:
    name: maria b
  body: "Great work and amazing responses. I truly agree that it is a very successful
    project. I have witnessed its development during the course and i think the outcome
    is wonderful.\r\nI really hope that you will have the opportunity to publish it
    and when you do sign one for me! Good luck cristina\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-27 11:22:38'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Aaron,\r\nYou are very kind. I\u2019m absolutely thrilled with the responses
    that my work has produced. It was absolutely unexpected. \r\nI had to do all this
    work in only 4 months, one of which was taking pictures in Mexico and trying to
    gather information on this phenomenon. The other 3 months were of sleepless nights
    of understanding the shapes, cutting and \u2018cleaning\u2019 the characters,
    overlaying them, reading and researching all I could about blackletter.\r\nI literally
    dreamed with little colourful characters, that became black, or that I had to
    arrange\u2026 for three consecutive months. This project has been one of the most
    amazing journeys of my life, both in a creative and intellectual level. \r\n"
  created: '2006-01-27 17:58:08'
- author:
    name: joeclark
    picture: 110605
  body: "Madre de D\xEDos, sign me up! (I can also help with any PDF.)\r\n\r\nHow
    does this relate to the Chicano <a  href=\"http://del.icio.us/tag/cholo\" title=\"Tag:
    cholo\">cholo</a> style?\r\n\r\n-- \r\nJoe Clark\r\nhttp://joeclark.org/"
  created: '2006-01-30 22:52:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019m absolutely thrilled with the responses\r\n\r\nWhich is I think
    due in large part to a\r\ngeneral desire, at least among typophiles,\r\nfor blackletter
    to be treated more fairly\r\nthan it has, for its unique attributes to be\r\nallowed
    to shine through the politicking.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-01 18:11:19'
- author:
    name: c_acker
    picture: 110528
  body: ">How does this relate to the Chicano cholo style?\r\n\r\nThis seems to overlap
    slightly with my project, Handselecta, which looks at graffiti's regional styles.
    A relatively informative essay by CHAZ Bojorquez can be found here:\r\n\r\nhttp://boards.brownpride.com/showflat.php/Cat/0/Number/1362014/an/0/page/0\r\n\r\nIn
    the article he refers to a book called \"Los Angeles Barrio Calligraphy\" (by
    Jerry and Sally Romotsky, Dawson's Book Shop, 1976). which only showed up 2 used
    on amazon for $285 :(\r\n\r\nFantatstic project, Cristina!"
  created: '2006-02-02 06:29:45'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "I absolutely agree with you. Blackletter has such an interesting history!
    Just to name a few of its stories\u2026 it was used to print the first book in
    the west (as we all know), it was enforced by the Nazis, and then prohibit by
    them; it has an ambivalent nature that makes it suitable for newspapers mastheads
    and punk/rock bands!\r\nI have realized that people react to blackletter, with
    the strongest of passion. Either people love it or hate it, apparently there are
    no in-betweens for this exquisite type breed.\r\nIs the letterform for the dissent
    and for the traditionalist!    \r\n"
  created: '2006-02-02 20:44:32'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Great article c_acker!\r\n\r\nSay more about your project Handselecta\u2026\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-02 20:52:45'
- author:
    name: akallaur
  body: "\"long time listener, first time caller\"\r\n\r\nyes, after a while of reading
    through all the goodness of this forum, i had to create an account to say congratulations
    to Cristina on this project.\r\n\r\nwow.\r\n\r\nfantastic job, and thanks for
    a much needed revival of inspiration."
  created: '2006-02-03 02:28:37'
- author:
    name: c_acker
    picture: 110528
  body: ">Say more about your project Handselecta\u2026\r\n\r\nWell' ok, but only
    if you bend my arm... Handselecta is a project that looks at graffiti and its
    geographic styles and differences. Each city has a different characteristic that
    unifies the scripts that writers employ. Less now with the cross polinization
    of the internet, but nonetheless, the roots are still there,\r\n\r\nAs for the
    Cholo/Mexican American/Cailifornia style of graffiti, Handselecta is working with
    an artist named Mike Giant from Albequerque, New Mexico, who is very influenced
    by this lettering style in his artwork. http://www.handselecta.com/fonts_hsgiant_so.html
    http://www.mikegiant.com/\r\n\r\nMy understanding (please fill in any of the blanks
    or fuzzy facts if anyone knows) is that most of the early printing presses in
    Colonial Mexico were stocked with Dutch blackletter types, because of the political
    link between the royal families of Spain and the Netherlands. These printing types
    are the basis for what has become most of the vernacular blackletter that we find
    handlettered in this culture. It is ingrained in the culture and was adopted by
    the gangs of LA as early as the 30's according to Chaz's article, pre-spray paint
    and was executed in brush, or as Chaz conjectures, possibly the daubers of shoe-shine
    boys\r\n\r\nAnother interesting iteration is the pichacao style of graffiti form
    Brazil, which is also a square-ish blackletter style executed with small rollers
    as opposed to spray paint.\r\n\r\nAttached is a cholo handstyle by Mike Giant,
    taken from his blog:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/header.gif]\r\n\r\nAnd
    here is a pretty good example of pichacao by Os Gemeos of Sao Paulo[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gemeos.jpg]\r\n\r\nSorry,
    for opening it up to subject matter outside of Mexico, hope this is relevant to
    you.\r\n\r\nBest,\r\nChristian"
  created: '2006-02-03 05:36:41'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Here is a little bit of history on how blackletter first came to the New
    Continent. Is from my book.\r\n\r\nAmerica was discovered in 1492 and by 1521,
    Hernan Cortes, on behalf of the Spanish crown, conquered Mexico, establishing
    the Colony of New Spain. \r\nThe first printing press in the American continent
    was found in Mexico in 1538, by means of Juan de Zum\xE1rraga, first bishop of
    Mexico, and Jakob Kronberger (known as Jacobo Cromberger), the most important
    printer in Seville at the time, who, been of German origin, was the founder one
    of the first printing presses in Seville around the beginning of the 1500\u2019s.\r\nJacobo
    Comberger supplied all the materials and tools, such as press, movable types,
    ink and paper and sent one of his closest technicians, Italian Giovanni Paoli
    (known as Juan Pablos) to be in charge of setting up and run the first printing
    press in the New World.\r\nIn 1544 the fist printed book in America was published:
    Doctrina Breve by Fray Juan de Zum\xE1rraga, which was set in Rotunda blackletter,
    proving that movable types of blackletter where taken to Mexico.\r\n\r\n\r\nChristian,
    \r\nplease don\u2019t apologize. Your topic is super interesting!\r\n\r\nEl dirto,\r\nThanks
    for joining typohile and welcome!  \r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Quenepa1
    body: 'Cristina, I wandered onto this site by accident...not a typophile, but
      I am investigating the history of the linocut in Puerto Rico (many artists were
      influenced strongly by the work of the Taller de Grafica Popular, which attributes
      its own work to Guadalupe Posada, who has everything to do with prolific and
      artistic use of the printing press...so I am very interested in the reference
      you provide for the history of the printing press in Mexico. It is one of the
      most detailed I have been able to locate to date, and am wondering if you wouldn''t
      mind providing a citation for this, so I can investigate it more fully in relation
      to my own research? '
    created: '2006-02-28 16:29:18'
  created: '2006-02-03 18:07:40'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "For what I have seen\u2026 Most of the blackletters that first came to Mexico
    were Rotunda, since this was the most popular blackletter in Spain at the time.
    This is a heavy but rounder letterform than Textura.\r\n\r\n\u201CRotunda was
    created at the beginning of the 14th century in Italy. It became very popular
    as a round gothic type, and its use extended for centuries. It is believed to
    be a transitional letterform from blackletter to roman. \r\nThe top and bottom
    ends of the stems no longer have the diamond shape that is present in Textura.
    The character a is double-storied with the lower part kept very small; the o is
    curved on the top right and bottom left, but remains broken on the bottom right
    and top left. In general, the shape of the letters is rounder and therefore more
    legible than in its predecessor.\u201D\r\n(From my book too.)\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-03 18:18:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> America was discovered in 1492\r\n\r\nWell, not really.\r\n\r\n> Giovanni
    Paoli\r\n\r\n!\r\n:-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-03 19:15:25'
- author:
    name: deafmetal
    picture: 110918
  body: "I'm late to the party I know, but I simply must give props to Cristina, and
    also state for the record that I would love to buy her book if it gets published.\r\nWell
    done!\r\n{n.a\u2013b}\r\nest.1971"
  created: '2006-02-03 23:07:19'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: ">> America was discovered in 1492\r\n\r\n>Well, not really.\r\n\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you mean?"
  created: '2006-02-04 01:39:27'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>>> America was discovered in 1492\r\n\r\n>Well, not really.\r\n\r\nWhat
    do you mean?</em>\r\n\r\nwell, the \"native\" americans \"discovered\" it long
    before that, and the vikings had visited North America before Columbus came to
    America in 1492, so that statement is not really accurate."
  created: '2006-02-04 01:52:55'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: well, but the natives didnt have any sophisticated system of moveable type
    for print, right? neither did the vikings.. :)
  created: '2006-02-04 02:28:54'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "They only had sophisticated astronomic, architectural, medical, calendaric
    and mathematical knowledge.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-02-04 03:16:23'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: i didnt say they were dumb people sitting in the jungle, i said they didnt
    have any system for printing type to my knowledge. and if this is right, there's
    no point in discussing this "who discovered america"-question in <i>this</i> thread.
  created: '2006-02-04 11:31:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> system of moveable type\r\n\r\nQuite appropriately, the validity of the
    \"discovery\" of\r\nAmerica by Columbus is closely parallel to that of the\r\n\"invention\"
    of printing by Gutenberg!\r\n\r\nThierry, when a pivotal and often-repeated fallacy\r\ncomes
    up, I think it's a good thing to try to correct it.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nEven the
    Vikings probably came later. There are theories that involve the Arabs (think
    of the astrolabe), the Polynesians, the Chinese, and even the Ancient Egpytians
    (thanks to certain grains that only occur in Egypt and the New World). But really,
    in the end, claiming to have \"discovered\" a land that was already inhabited
    is pretty sick. Although thinking in those terms certainly makes the subsequent
    genocide easier to cope with for the oppressor...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-04 18:24:43'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "I agree with you on the importance of been clear and fair with the facts\u2026
    I know that there are many theories (and some facts) about this encounters that
    you are pointing out; one of which is the \u2018Bering Strait Theory\u2019, that
    supports the idea that tribes from north-eastern Asia came to America between
    12,000 and 60,000 years ago. I know there are many others from then.\r\n\r\nIt
    is delightful to run into people that are keen on accuracy and clarity\u2026 but
    I\u2019m not surprised: After all we are in a typographers/philes forum! \r\n\r\nSo
    allow me to refrace:\r\nIn 1492 Christopher Columbus arrived to America and by
    1521, Hernan Cortes, on behalf of the Spanish crown, conquered Mexico, establishing
    the Colony of New Spain.\r\n\r\nNow is clear that the 'discovery' that I\u2019m
    referring to is the one of Columbus, which is directly linked to the Conquest
    and the Colony of New Spain.\r\n(is funny\u2026 I decided to put the discovery
    of 1492 just to make clear to the reader that the Colony wasn\u2019t immediate.
    It took many years, and many battles)    \r\n"
  created: '2006-02-04 20:07:16'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: 'Oh! Yes I was trilled to find out that I have the same surname that the first
    printer of America! (and this is not a common surname in Mexico) Unfortunately
    we are not related! '
  created: '2006-02-04 20:33:19'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "hrant, yes, sure. but i hate it when good threads go bad just because of
    such discussions, in my opinion they would be better located in their own threads.
    that was the only reason for my posts.\r\n\r\nlets get back to topic."
  created: '2006-02-04 21:10:25'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Here are some examples of Mexican Blackletters\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DS
    22.jpg]  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/OR 7.jpg]  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DS
    11.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DS 1.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hib
    1.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Hib 4.jpg]"
  created: '2006-02-04 23:57:50'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "A couple of nice samples from extinted Matiz magazine:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/P2040029.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/P2040032.jpg]\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-02-05 04:57:23'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Hey, Cristina,\r\n\r\nI don't mean to hijack this thread, but seeing these
    storefront photos you posted reminded me of the buses in Buenos Aires... Many
    of them sport hand-painted signs and decorations (done by artisans known as <em>fileteadores</em>),
    and if my memory is correct some of those buses use blackletter, too.\r\n\r\nThe
    only good image I could find online is <a href=\"http://www.leni.com.ar/images/big/filete_portenio.jpg\">here</a>...
    it is not blackletter and does not come from a bus, but it is a good example of
    what <em>fileteado</em> looks like."
  created: '2006-02-07 05:33:14'
- author:
    name: alya
  body: Cristina, do you have any historical info on how the blackletter came to be
    such a famous vernacular element in Mexico?
  created: '2006-02-07 11:33:50'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Hi Ricardo,\r\nSorry for taking so long to post something\u2026 Great sign!
    Beautiful letters!.. actually in Mexico we also have some like that\u2026 but
    I have absolutely no idea of how those letters are called, but the \u2018fileteado\u2019
    sounds appropriate because it literally means something with \u2018filetes\u2019,
    which are long and narrow ornaments attached to something else.\r\ninteresting\u2026
    \r\n\r\nBy the way in Mexico we have professional hand letterers as well. They
    are called \u2018rotulistas\u2019. \r\n"
  created: '2006-02-23 22:37:10'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Dear Alia,\r\n\r\nThe reason why blackletter is used in Mexico is not entirely
    clear, although I have some theories on the matter. One possible explanation could
    come from the Spanish background of the country. The overwhelming Colonial history
    is still present, not only in the collective unconscious but also in buildings,
    plazas and entire cities some of which use this letterform in their signage as
    a way of communicating their abounding Colonial background to tourists and visitors.
    But this can\u2019t be the only reason why Mexicans use blackletter, simply because
    many are not aware of this connotation, and others have something else in mind
    when there are exposed to this letterform.   \r\nMy belief is that the use of
    blackletter in folk functional graphics out of the Colonial contexts comes from
    the very essence of Mexican culture. Mexicans are fond of ornaments, colour and
    contrast; humour and fantasy; rituals and festivities. One needs only to visit
    the nearest market available to experience all this at once; the viewer would
    be welcomed by the sound of local music, which rhythms mix with the ongoing voices
    of merchants offering magical or paradisiacal products that range from fruits
    and vegetables to plants or objects, one more astounding that the other. Walking
    along, this imaginary spectator would be overwhelm by the smells in the environment;
    at every step a new odour would invade his nostrils, going from the smell of flowers
    been sold at his right, to the seductive aroma of food been prepared on his left,
    to the indefinable fragrance of raw fruit that is just in front of him. In parallel,
    his eyes would be bombarded by an army of colours and shapes, which are as seductive
    and overwhelming as the elements arousing his other senses.\r\nThis is every day
    life in Mexico, and this is the context in which blackletter is embraced and used.
    The letterform in its self is full of ornaments and contrast, playful and mysterious
    at the same time; the conjunction of characters overpowers the background, just
    as the elements of the market overtake the environment and therefore the viewer.
    \r\n"
  created: '2006-02-23 22:45:48'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Beautiful work. I too would buy a copy.\r\n\r\nOn the subject of the \"discovery\"
    of the Americas I would like to mention that I recently discovered an excellent
    Mexican restaurant on 24th Street. (You can discover things that were already
    known to others.)\r\n\r\nOf course, it would be a long time after the initial
    encounter between Europeans and Americans before anyone had any concept of \"America.\""
  created: '2006-02-27 04:20:42'
- author:
    name: xensen
    picture: 109967
  body: "Cristina,\r\n\r\nWhen did blackletter become so much a part of Mexican folk
    graphics?\r\n\r\nI'm wondering if it has any connection to the period of the emperor
    Maximillian, archduke of Austria, and his wife Carlota of Belgium (in other words,
    the 1860s).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-27 04:31:45'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Xensen,\r\n\r\nOn the subject of the Discovery of America\u2026 actually
    my original line of thought was the same as you, but I understand is a delicate
    matter and of course is always better to be as accurate as possible when one is
    writing about something.\r\nI appreciate your willingness to understand what I
    was trying to communicate.\r\n\r\nOn the matter of when blackletter became so
    popular in Mexican folk functional graphics\u2026 well that\u2019s trickier, first
    of all because for what I know no one has dig into that! So I\u2019ve had to do
    my bit of research, but for now I have concentrated more on analyzing the \u2018live\u2019
    design matter on the streets of Mexico today, than tracing down a philology of
    Mexican blackletters (which would be fascinating! And I don\u2019t discard doing
    it one day).\r\nI know the date when blackletter movable type arrived to Mexico:
    1538, and I know it was used on printed matter, but when it jumped to hand letter
    signage? It remains to be discovered. I also know that today \u2018rotulistas\u2019
    (professional hand letterers in Mexico) take inspiration from the internet \u2014I
    know this because I asked a few to draw me an specimen: one said he didn\u2019t
    knew all letters so he would try to find them out (he never did) and the other
    told me that he would search on the web and print them out for me! \u2026 Of course
    that wasn\u2019t what I wanted so I encourage him to draw them (and he did). \r\n\r\nIs
    important to bear in mind that most folk functional graphics in Mexico are set
    in roman type in its serif or sans serif versions.\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-27 17:37:32'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "I wonder if the blackletter connection in Mexico has anything to do with
    the Austrian influence via Maximillian. There are a number of traditional Austrian
    styles of beer that now only exist in Mexico. You can hear the Austrian musical
    \ influence on Ranchero, all those 3/4 waltzes and polkas that dominate the Mariachi
    repertoire.\r\n\r\nJust a thought.\r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2006-02-27 21:45:36'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Quenepa1,\r\n\r\nHope you can read Spanish!!!!\r\n\r\nI have loads of bibliography.
    But many books are really hard to find\u2026\r\n\r\nMedina, Jos\xE9 Toribio. La
    imprenta en M\xE9xico. M\xE9xico, UNAM. 1991\r\n\r\nTorre Rovello, Jos\xE9. El
    libro, la imprenta y el periodismo en Am\xE9rica durante la dominaci\xF3n espa\xF1ola.
    M\xE9xico. UNAM. 1991\r\n\r\nCarre\xF1o, Alberto Mar\xEDa. Estudios bibliogr\xE1ficos.
    M\xE9xico. Ediciones Victoria. 1962.\r\n\r\nYhmoff Cabrera, Jes\xFAs. Los Cromnerger,
    la historia de una imprenta del siglo XVI en Sevilla y M\xE9xico. Madrid. Ediciones
    de cultura hisp\xE1nica. 1991.\r\n\r\nStols Alexandre, A.M. Antonio Espinosa,
    el Segundo impresor mexicano. UNAM. 1989.\r\n\r\nZulaica G\xE1rate, Roman. Los
    franciscanos y la imprenta en M\xE9xico. UNAM. 1991.\r\n\r\nLafaye, Jacques. Albores
    de la imprenta. El libro en Espa\xF1a y Portugal y sus posesiones de ultramar
    (siglos XV y XVI). M\xE9xico. Fondo de Cultura Econ\xF3mica. 2004.\r\n\r\nHenestrosa,
    Crist\xF3bal. Espinosa. Rescate de una tipograf\xEDa novohispana. M\xE9xico. 2005.\r\n\r\nBerm\xFAdez,
    Jorge R. Gr\xE1fica e identidad nacional. M\xE9xico. UAM Xochimilco. 1994.\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    there are MANY more\u2026 but I  don\u2019t  have the bibliography with me just
    now. (Anyhow this should be a good start).\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso check out this site
    it might contain articles relevant to your research\r\nhttp://www.adabi.org.mx/adabi.htm\r\n\r\n\r\nSome
    useful names of people that work this topic:\r\nJuan Pascoe\r\nMariana Garone\r\nCrist\xF3bal
    Henestrosa\r\nIgnacio (Nacho) Pe\xF3n\r\nGonzalo Garc\xEDa Bercha\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Quenepa1
    body: "Cristina, thank you so much for all these resources. I am printing them
      out now and we'll see where they take me. Y, si, leo en espanol :)\r\n\r\nAs
      I mentioned I am new to the site and almost forgot how I got here in the first
      place, but it is really a great resource and a wealth of information. I would
      really like to see your work one day...when my travels take me to Mexico, I'll
      definitely be checking out the Guadalupe Posada museum and old printing press
      sites, and hopefully will be able to track you down too. Intriguingly, my master's
      work (I'm in education) was in graffiti as a literacy (which is unfortunately
      not considered as such in most schools), and that was where I was first introduced
      to blackletters (AKA calo, no?) Pues, writing and writing for now to finish
      up the dissertation, but mil gracias again for your detailed list above. \r\n\r\nMary
      Sefranek \r\nPrograms in English and Bilingual/Bicultural Education\r\nTeachers
      College, Columbia University\r\nNew York\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    children:
    - author:
        name: Cristina Paoli
        picture: 110753
      body: "Quenepa1,\r\n\r\nHope you find them and that they be useful to your research.\r\nBest
        wishes.\r\n"
      created: '2006-03-10 17:16:21'
    created: '2006-03-09 09:10:03'
  - author:
      name: saidlechat
      picture: 111492
    body: "Hola Christina,\r\n\r\nFirst of all, congratulations! The work you did
      is really amazing.\r\nWhen I went to Mexico I was always impressed and fascinated
      by the way Mexicans use \r\ncolours and graphics. As I'm from \"grey\" Germany
      this was so refreshing!\r\n\r\nI'm working at the moment on a similar theme.
      For my final Project in my graphic design studies I try to research the modern
      day usage of Blackletter. \r\nI'm especially interested in the way how people
      outside Germany and Europe percieve \r\nBlackletter fonts and for what purposes
      they are used.\r\nI feel this differs a lot from how people see it in central
      Europe.\r\nMaybe I can contact you and you could help me with my research?\r\nI
      am preparing a kind of question sheet with different examples of Blackletter.\r\nIn
      my synthesis in a second ste I want to see how Blackletter could be used in
      a modern way, far from the beer-nationalist-punk-skateboard-kind of way.\r\n\r\nAdemas
      si lo prefieres podemos comunicar en espa\xF1ol!\r\n\r\nMuchisimas gracias en
      adelante\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-04-19 13:18:36'
  created: '2006-02-28 19:25:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> http://www.adabi.org.mx/adabi.htm\r\n\r\nFunny, \"adabi\" means \"literary\"
    in Arabic!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 19:40:06'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Terminaldesign,\r\n\r\nMaybe so\u2026 But blackletter first came to Mexico
    with the Spanish, and during that time blackletter, especially Rotunda, was very
    popular in Spain.\r\nI don\u2019t know much about printing press (or for that
    matter typographical culture) during the Maximilian emperorship in Mexico. But
    it is absolutely worth dig into that, because maybe some interesting facts could
    come out of it. Thanks!\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 21:34:11'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "hrant,\r\nFantastic! Beautiful coincidences of life (or language)  \r\nadabi
    stands for: Apoyo al Desarrollo de Archivos y Bibliotecas de M\xE9xico, A.C.\r\nWhich
    means: Support for the development of archivals and libraries of Mexico.\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 21:43:48'
- author:
    name: Vassilis
  body: "Hi\r\nChristina I'm new in this forum. I just wanted to say that I found
    your book idea very interesting. By the way I have just started my MA course in
    LCC. Are you still going around there but maybe you don't leave in England anymore.
    I would be very glad to meet you and maybe have a chat.\r\n\r\nTake care"
  created: '2006-03-01 19:51:06'
- author:
    name: devisionbell
  body: "Christina, this work is incredibly inspirational. Well done! As someone in
    the early stages of thrashing out a direction for a Masters of Computer Graphic
    Design in New Zealand I thank you for your post. I can only but hope that as I
    pursue my dissertation my outcomes are half as interesting as yours. All the best
    with publication potential, I too hope to read your work in the future. Definitely
    a work that I will purchase for myself and the university I work for.\r\n\r\n-nic"
  created: '2006-03-01 22:37:24'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I think that we like blackletter in M\xE9xico is not for any specific historical
    reason but because we simply like profussion and a kind of visual brutality, note
    that you won't find delicate blackletters in hand lettering.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-03-02 02:32:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This \"we just like it\" view was in fact presented\r\nby Gabriel Martinez
    Meave during the Q&A session\r\nof the blackletter panel discussion at ATypI-Leipzig.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-02 02:46:37'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Vassilis,\r\nI\u2019m back in Mexico now, so unfortunately I\u2019m not going
    to be able to meet you (but if you ever come to Mexico let me know!)\r\nI wish
    you the very best in you MA at LCC and encourage you to get your hands dirty in
    the great letterpress workshop!\r\n\r\ndevisionbell,\r\nThank you for your comments
    and support! I\u2019m sure you\u2019ll do great in your dissertation if you choose
    a topic you are passionate about. \r\n"
  created: '2006-03-02 19:15:32'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: '[accidental post]'
  created: '2006-03-10 19:39:37'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "or (even better yet) perhaps we will be able to purchase one in the near
    future\u2026\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 22:14:21'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Wonderful idea. I hope to do a phototrip through Mexico someday, documenting
    some of the great stonework, and stone fences I saw while driving through the
    parts of the country I have visited.\r\n\r\nIf by chance you should be near Guadalajara,
    Make sure you see their Ballet Folklorico. It is an auditory and visual feast
    you will never forget. And it is very distinct from the Mexico City presentation,
    which is more traditional. And the stately Teatro Degollado is a wonderful venue
    for it."
  created: '2006-04-13 22:32:10'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Dear Ross McClain,\r\n\r\nNop (sorry), I haven\u2019t posted the PDF. I\u2019m
    currently working on a final version of this book: writing new stuff, getting
    exiting new pictures of tattoos and grafitti\u2026\r\nUnfortunately I\u2019m not
    going to be able to post a PDF of the book\u2026 but as Istitch said\u2026 You
    are going to be able to buy it very soon!!! (before the end of the year)\r\n\r\nAnd
    Ross\u2026 well thanks for the cheers. \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-06 18:59:42'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "> but as Istitch said\u2026 You are going to be able to buy it very soon!!\r\n\r\nGreat!
    I just finished reading \"Blackletter: Type and National Idenity\", an excellent
    book. I can't wait for another book on blackletter, perhaps with somewhat different
    perspective on the matter. :^)"
  created: '2006-05-06 19:06:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201CBlackletter: Type and National Idenity\u201D\r\n\r\nThat is indeed
    a superb book (it's one of the two things that triggered my own interest\r\nin
    blackletter), and not least because it doesn't shy away from the reality that
    national\r\nidentity exists, and it matters (although like anything else, it can
    be abused).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-06 19:16:15'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Hola Saidlechat,\r\n\r\nWell I\u2019ll be happy to help you in anything I
    can. Write me an email thru this forum.\r\n\r\nI don\u2019t know if it might be
    of use to you\u2026 Last August I performed a questionnaire in Mexico City about
    the use and perceptions of blackletter in Mexico to about 65 or more people.\r\nI
    did it my self, so I\u2019m not sure if the questions I asked were the best ones\u2026
    but is done and translated to English. If you want I can share it with you, no
    problem.\r\nCuriously\u2026 most people haven\u2019t really noticed the letterform
    around the City! \r\n\r\nTu proyecto suena muy interesante. Te deseo mucha suerte!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: saidlechat
      picture: 111492
    body: "Hola Christina,\r\n\r\nI'm glad you replied, I already feared the topic
      was dead.\r\nActually the questionnaire is exactly the kind of thing I need.\r\nI
      prepared one myself.\r\nI didn't ask many questions as for my work I won't be
      able to make a profound investigation, It is more of getting a basic idea. Also,
      as we all do I can't wait to get to the design part of the project...\r\n\r\nAs
      the project progresses I took the decision to show the results in the format
      of a magazine, only or in the major part using different blackletter fonts.
      Well we'll see.\r\nAs for now it would be a great help if you could send me
      the results of your questionaire.\r\nI will also send you mine to give you an
      idea.\r\n\r\nMuchas gracias y hasta prontito,\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-05-07 17:54:22'
  created: '2006-05-06 19:19:14'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Blackletter: Type and National Idenity By Peter Bain and Paul Shaw\r\n\r\nFabulous
    book! It was of great help to me. (is one of my cherished books). Maybe the best
    one to get into the subject. And also refreshing\u2026 since is a contemporary
    work. "
  created: '2006-05-06 19:25:50'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I am in Ensenada and have a few nice samples that I will upload when I get
    back. (can't do it from this internet cafe)
  created: '2006-05-20 18:02:08'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "The best ones are still in my camera. The little yellow and white buses that
    run around Ensenada BC have some great lettering. I will post those later tonight.
    Here's some that are ready. The first two were found in two different Catholic
    churces.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/letter6_4906.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/letter7_5041.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-21 22:30:58'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "These two were on a shop window near la casa de mi suegra.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/letter1_5230.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/letter2_6190.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-21 22:35:27'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: The bus painter seems to have it down.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/bus1_4106.jpg]
  created: '2006-05-21 23:22:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Love the tittles.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-22 20:13:31'
- author:
    name: Tholan
  body: "Hi Christina,\r\n\r\nvery interesting thread!\r\nDid you found the use of
    long-s \xBB\u017F\xAB during your work. Till what time, if you found the character.
    In Germany is it in use in blackletter till today (not always).\r\n\r\nThomas"
  created: '2006-05-23 17:44:52'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I have never seen the long s in signs in M\xE9xico, only in very old texts.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Tholan
    body: rs_donsata, till when was it used? Can you narrow this down?
    created: '2006-05-25 18:10:34'
  created: '2006-05-23 19:02:37'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I really can't tell, but it was not in use by the beginning of the XIX century.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-05-26 16:30:14'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: "Hi everyone, just new to typophile\r\n\r\nIn Germany Fraktur and Schwabacher
    are the predominant blackletter categories historically. Both have the extended
    f and s terminals below the base line. However I am unsure of the rare times blackletter
    is used in Germany which category they now hark back too."
  created: '2006-05-27 08:42:48'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: "It sounds like more than one of us has the same kind of idea - wanting to
    make a modern blackletter.\r\n\r\nI did post a new topic THE MODERN BLACKLETTER
    is anyone is interested. Talking about how to create a modern blackletter with
    empathy to it's historical roots."
  created: '2006-05-27 08:45:15'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: "Hi Cristina Paoli,\r\n\r\nIn my final year focusing on blackletter for the
    major project I have admired your work on mexican blackletter. Sounds like you
    have had good success now that you are publishing a book.\r\n\r\nHave you had
    alot of opportunities after completing your project? \r\n\r\nI was interested
    in what kind of mark you got given for your final project? (an optional question).\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-27 08:50:32'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nSchwabacher isn't used so much in German graphics anymore. One
    sees more Fraktur and Textura these days. Some of this is probably because there
    aren't too may digital Schwabacher fonts available on the market."
  created: '2006-05-27 12:56:07'
- author:
    name: Hannah
    picture: 111621
  body: ahh, I see!
  created: '2006-05-28 04:31:02'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Hey fontplayer,\r\n\r\nThose are some beautiful examples!!!!\r\n\r\nTholan,\r\nNop.
    I haven\u2019t seen a long s in Mexican blackletter. Because we don\u2019t have
    that letter in Spanish. \r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Tholan
    body: "Hi Christina,\r\nyou wrote\r\n\u201ETholan, Nop. I haven\u2019t seen a
      long s in Mexican blackletter. Because we don\u2019t have that letter in Spanish.\u201C\r\n\r\nYes,
      but perhaps you had this like in France, where it was probably in use 'till
      the french revolution in the late XVIII. Century? Perhabs it's the same in spain
      and mexico?\r\n\r\nThomas\r\nGermany\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-05-31 11:07:33'
  created: '2006-05-30 17:04:31'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: ">Hi Cristina Paoli,\r\n\r\n>In my final year focusing on blackletter for
    the major project I have >admired your work on mexican blackletter. Sounds like
    you have had >good success now that you are publishing a book.\r\n\r\n>Have you
    had alot of opportunities after completing your project?\r\n\r\nYes Hanna. Actually
    loads of people are interested in blackletter, and I\u2019ve had beautiful responses
    to my project, that have led to exiting projects and forums.\r\nI\u2019m really
    happy and overwhelmed with the success the project has had so far. \r\n\r\n>I
    was interested in what kind of mark you got given for your final >project? (an
    optional question).\r\n\r\nI got an A. And a beautiful pencil from my tutor inscribed
    with the word EXCELLENT. (I think I value more the pencil than the mark!)\r\n\r\n;-)\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 17:14:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The thing is, it's not really a letter, it's simply a way (an archaic way)
    to write the regular ol' \"s\", depending on where it falls in the word. And although
    I certainly haven't looked carefully, I'd be surprised if the practice was completely
    absent from old Mexican typography (and even more so manuscripts).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-30 17:15:55'
- author:
    name: Cristina Paoli
    picture: 110753
  body: "Tholan,\r\nCheck out this S:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/s_3812.jpg]\r\n\r\nAnd
    this F:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/F_6560.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-30 17:20:59'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I have posted examples of the buses in Ensenada, and yesterday I stumbled
    on one of the station hubs. Although the letterer has a wonderful style, he apparently
    hasn't heard about kerning.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_5354_6692.jpg]
  created: '2007-10-29 01:15:10'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "A chain of abbreviations by the way.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2007-10-29 05:39:48'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: very cool topic... Christina has done a remarkable job here!
  created: '2007-10-29 09:05:08'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Found in downtown Tijuana[img:sites/default/files/old-images/tjblkletter_4012.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/blkletterstandtj_4593.jpg]
  created: '2007-11-03 18:38:45'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: Anymore word on this book publication?
  created: '2008-02-20 21:15:20'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/Mexican-Blackletter-Cristina-Paoli/dp/0977282783\">Amazon.com</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.markbattypublisher.com/servlet/book_view?number=40\">Publisher</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.theworld.org/?q=taxonomy_by_date/2/20070423\">Interview</a>\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2008-02-25 13:17:39'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Thanks for the link. \r\n"
  created: '2008-02-25 14:28:34'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: wonderful, thanks Tim.
  created: '2008-02-25 19:43:14'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I just finished going through my copy. I enjoyed it, since the phenomena
    is something I've also been noticing on my trips to Baja. I especially enjoy seeing
    the one that are either very skillful, or very quirky, but obviously hand-painted.\r\n\r\nMy
    favorite quote from the book, \"Just raising the question of why they chose blackletter
    made some people uncomfortable under the pressure of having to verbalize an un-rationalized
    aesthetic whim.\"- Somehow I can picture it.\r\n; )"
  created: '2008-03-02 16:10:56'
- author:
    name: Jason Walley
    picture: 112725
  body: "Just stumbled upon this thread in my search for inspiration, and am now more
    than simply inspired. Am putting this book at the top of my list of books to buy
    and am very excited about it.\r\n\r\nYou've done a fabulous thing, Christina.
    Many thanks and accolades."
  created: '2010-06-13 01:18:52'
date: '2006-01-24 15:55:10'
files:
- filename: 0 Portada.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/0 Portada.jpg
- filename: 4 interior.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/4 interior.jpg
- filename: 7 interior.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/7 interior.jpg
- filename: 8 interior.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/8 interior.jpg
- filename: 9 interior.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/9 interior.jpg
- filename: 10 interior.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/10 interior.jpg
- filename: 11 interior.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/11 interior.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Blackletter in Mexico

---
