---
author:
  name: jlt
  picture: 110270
body: "A reporter emailed me this morning asking why type designers and typographers
  are so passionate about our craft. She believes, perhaps rightly so, that we are
  even more passionate about letterforms and their use than many generalist graphic
  designers are about their particular industry.\r\n\r\nIs this true? Why? I promise
  not to steal your pithy quotes and use them as my own; I'm asking because aside
  from the usually-repeated trope (that so much visual communication is bad, that
  our tools are misused so regularly, that so many 'professionals' are unfamiliar
  with their correct use that we MUST vigilantly proselytize / educate not just professionals
  but all makers and consumers of communication as well), well, I just can't say it
  any more succinctly than that.\r\n\r\nBut that's just my own lack of articulation
  and imagination. Aside from the inherent beauty of good type and good typesetting,
  what am I missing?\r\n\r\nThe reporter's email address indicates that she is at
  the Columbia School of Journalism - not sure if this is a <i>CJR</i> project or
  another endeavor entirely.\r\n\r\nI will simply steer her toward this thread if
  it generates useful dialogue.\r\n\r\nYours\r\n\r\nJoshua"
comments:
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Oddly enough, it may less passionate than it is obsessive.\r\n(OCD -- Obsessive
    Compulsive Disorder :-) )\r\n\r\nIt may be that once you actually can <em>see</em>
    type, letterforms and spacing, you can't stop seeing it. You can only ignore it
    by putting a bag over your head.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-24 18:29:32'
- author:
    name: cheshiredave
    picture: 110433
  body: For me it's that I think a lot of graphic design is separated from its content,
    which I think can often lead to stylish but interchangeable design. On the other
    hand, I think type designers and typographers -- because we care about the right
    typeface(s) for a particular application -- are generally more deeply invested
    in meaningful connections between design and content, and so I think that approach
    leads to a more holistic -- and passionate -- design experience.
  created: '2006-01-24 18:32:40'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I recently received a copy of <em>American Type Play</em> by Stephen Heller
    and Gail Anderson. In the introduction, Heller surveys the history of typographic
    development, by itself and in relation to society at large, to the present day
    (OK, 1998, but same thing), and he concludes that, because of their evocative
    power, typefaces have become <strong>objects of desire</strong>, which made perfect
    sense, since the whole business of advertising is directed toward creating in
    us needs we never knew we had, and typography and advertising go hand in hand.\r\n\r\nSo,
    typ<strong>ographer</strong>; porn<strong>ographer</strong>. Mere coincidence?
    I think not..."
  created: '2006-01-24 18:37:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "As both a graphic designer and a type designer, I think the difference is
    that type can be a system unto itself--not necessarily a closed system but one
    with boundaries (albeit fuzzy). In the Platonic sense of \"Seeing Forms\", we
    may see ourselves as privileged to \"knowing\" the forms of letters in their absolute
    sense. We might even design a typeface that pushes at the boundaries but we know
    well enough what the essence of those forms are so that they are not lost in the
    abyss beyond the boundary. Type design is both taxing and exhilarating (the moments
    of exhilaration are few and brief though). Passion is part of the long struggle
    to achieve those brief moments.  Seeing our labors minimized by being stolen or
    badly used can make me cry out, \"NO!, that is not why I poured my life into that
    musical score of letterforms!\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-24 18:48:54'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think that because the barrier to being a graphic designer -or being seen
    as one- is relatively low and because the barrier to being a type designer -or
    being seen as one- is comparitively high you have there is a natural distilation
    of passion, madness or whatever characteristic you prefer. \r\n\r\nAlso, if graphic
    designers are any good they looking for specific results from their work which
    means watching things crash & burn or succeed. All that crashing means that passion
    is tempered with a certain pragmatism after a while. Which makes their craft a
    bit less hypothetical than ours is. I can't say that we are immune from that,
    but of neccessity, a bit more removed from end results and our passion isn't checked
    as regularly as a result. "
  created: '2006-01-24 19:22:25'
- author:
    name: jlt
    picture: 110270
  body: "Glenna is finding this thread very helpful! She sent me a few additional
    questions, which I quote below, and which I have already sent her my own short
    responses to.\r\n\r\n\"1. When is typography political?\r\n\r\n2. Why do so many
    typographers have manifestos?\r\n\r\n3. If typography is so important, how come
    some many people ignore it?\r\n\r\nAlso, do you know where I could get some statistics
    on fonts, such as\r\nhow many are in circulation, when they came to be, etc?\"\r\n\r\nJoshua\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-24 19:22:53'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "I second the comment that type draws the obsessive-compulsives among us.\r\n\r\nCreating
    a system of glyphs requires an unparalleled amount of work before any tangible
    results are possible. Leaving aside the work of tweaking beziers, defining kerning
    tables, interpolating new weights, or creating ligatures and alternates for entire
    typefaces are all extremely tedious. Naturally those who put themselves through
    such tasks either enjoy minutia way too much (and therefore cue in to it in their
    daily lives) or just love the results way too much (and therefore are necessarily
    obsessed about them)."
  created: '2006-01-24 19:24:33'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: Oh and as everyone knows, typography is important <em>because</em> so many
    people ignore it!
  created: '2006-01-24 19:26:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Funny, I was wondering about this (sort of out-loud)\r\nto my class last
    Thursday, cautioning them that they\r\nmight find themselves falling into an obsessive
    chasm!  :-)\r\n\r\nI think type designers are passionate -to the point of mania
    sometimes- because they make self-contained little things with no direct meddling
    from the outside - it's a one-man thing almost all the time. They work forever
    on these viral little machines, and understandably become a little bit full of
    themselves and overly attentive to the smallest details.\r\n\r\n> 1. When is typography
    political?\r\n\r\nType design can be political quite easily in the non-Latin realm.
    For example my Nour&Patria system (good news from CR on that soon) is largely
    an extension of the desire to combat what's called the White Genocide of Armenians:
    cultural assimilation in foreign lands, which is a huge deal for us when you consider
    that most Armenians live outside Armenia (thanks to the Turks).\r\n\r\n> 2. Why
    do so many typographers have manifestos?\r\n\r\nType design being a financially
    precarious\r\noccupation, you almost have to be an idealist.\r\n\r\n> 3. If typography
    is so important, how come some many people ignore it?\r\n\r\nImportant compared
    to what? Frankly it's not that important\r\nin the global scheme of things, except
    when it tries to help\r\nthe vulnerable (which is extremely rare).\r\n\r\nBut
    a big reason it's ignored is that it's partly subvisible.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-24 19:33:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "There was an interesting comment by Jean Fran\xE7ois Porchez, saying that
    type design is more like archicture than it is like graphic design, and that he
    is passionate about type design, but not about graphic design. \r\n\r\nOne of
    the features of type that resembles architecture is that it consists of enduring
    objects, and is generally speaking less ephemeral than much of graphic design,
    which goes for advertising and business uses that are normally quickly forgotten.
    Another feature is that because it you have a finite bunch of designs that have
    to work with one another, it inspires an effort at perfection, or at any rate
    at a level of polish and finish that you would find in other design of lasting
    objects: archicture, industrial design, fabric design.\r\n\r\nAnother thing is
    that it is a great art, as well as a craft. The Chinese know this as they rate
    calligraphy even higher than painting, I believe. Of course type design is not
    calligraphy, as the challenges are quite different. But they share the fascination
    of abstract symbols which mean nothing in themselves that come together to express
    every nuance of thought and color of passion of humanity. When these some together
    with an artistic beauty, as well as serviceable craft, the result is quite wonderful.
    \r\n\r\nThe fact that type design is much less appreciated than architecture is,
    I think, just a matter of general ignorance. To me type design is a great art
    that is both invisible to the public, and moves them for much of their day--a
    wierd and fascinating combination.  \r\n\r\nAt TypeCon I observed that type design
    is one of the not so many things that people want to do for its own sake, like
    music and poetry. It is just so enjoyable and satisfying that they do it first,
    and and then try to figure out a way to make a living out of it second. "
  created: '2006-01-24 19:55:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> type design is more like archicture than it is like graphic design\r\n\r\nThe
    architecture analogy is common, and does sort of work,\r\nbut a much better one
    I think is that of... shoemaking!\r\nEspecially when you include text fonts, not
    just display.\r\n\r\nBut one thing about type design that's quite hard to find\r\na
    parallel for is that we make tools, not end-results.\r\nThis combined with the
    expressive potential (not highly\r\npresent in the making of a screwdriver for
    example)\r\nmakes it really quite unique I think.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-24 20:10:30'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> A reporter emailed me this morning asking why type designers and typographers
    are so passionate about our craft.\r\n\r\nMy answer is: ??? \r\n\r\nOr ask her
    to ask her doctor why he/she is so passionate about their 'craft'"
  created: '2006-01-24 20:18:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...much better one I think is that of\u2026 shoemaking!\"\r\n\r\nThe shoe
    must it, before you can wear it :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-24 20:58:24'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: The <a href="http://www.sfweekly.com/issues/2005-01-26/culture/books.html">SF
    Weekly article</a> on last January's SF premiere of the Typophile Film Festival
    has some good stuff, including some a few bizarre quotes from myself.
  created: '2006-01-24 23:14:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Nice Post William.\r\n\r\n> \u201C1. When is typography political?\r\n\r\nI
    am guessing she means 'political' as in on typophile or within the larger body
    of type makers. As in Internal politics. As in Why do typo-nuts disagree with
    such intensity? As in 'After all it's only type...' That kind of thing. \r\n\r\nOr
    was she thinking about historical political use ( like when Communist china created
    simplified characters & Taiwan kept their older more complicated characters) or
    current geopoltics. Each of these would be a valid angle to persue.  But I wonder
    what SHE means.\r\n\r\n> 2. Why do so many typographers have manifestos?\r\n\r\nControversy
    is a long free advertisement - and we don't have big ad budgets. It worked for
    \ artists & art movements - so why not us?\r\n\r\n> 3. If typography is so important,
    how come some many people ignore it?\r\n\r\nHrant's answer is excellent. I can
    only add that many many really important things work without our realizing they
    are there or that they are working. electricity, radio, sewers, the internet &
    the list goes on. And most people further have no idea how they work. That doesn't
    stop them for taking full advantage though. Or wailing when they go away. I for
    one *adore* indoor plumbing. Can you imagine being denied the use of writing?
    \r\n\r\nBut Type isn't just writing. Type works two ways: It communicates what
    is being said but then it goes further & communicates how it's being said. The
    initial instance is assumed & is a baseline. Types do it with different degrees
    of success in different media, environments, cultures & individials. Type design
    is & should be influenced by this purpose. The second instance is more subtle
    & more culturally bound. People read type style (and facility with the use of
    type) like they do fashion - they take it too mean something without noticing
    that they are making a judgement. Is that important? Only to the degree that you
    want or need to communicate really effectively. For you or me it may be of marginal
    importance. In contrast for Advertisers and Media companies it means a very great
    deal.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-24 23:17:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\u201C1. When is typography political?\"\r\nAlways. In a world where the
    sword has taken a big lead, you need to make better and better pens ALL THE TIME,
    just to stop falling farther behind.\r\n\r\n\"2. Why do so many typographers have
    manifestos?\"\r\nThey don't excercise enough, so they grow extra ones. I have
    seven on each foot.\r\n\r\n\"3. If typography is so important, how come some many
    people ignore it?\"\r\nIgnore what? Who? I don't understand the question."
  created: '2006-01-25 14:33:59'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "<cite>Why are we so passionate?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt's the inevitable response
    to having one's craft ignored, misunderstood, and under-rewarded (I'm thinking
    of the amount of expertise and time vs. recognition and monetary compensation).
    Those who aren't passionate probably wouldn't bother. Though, on the flip side,
    would it really be so great without so many passionate people involved?\r\n\r\nAlso,
    once you're awakened to the finer points of type and typography, you see it <em>everywhere</em>
    because many cultures plaster type all over everything (ususally ads). So imagine
    if you were exposed to your pet peeves over and over all day long. I've had friends
    who are not designers or typographers become aware of things like typefaces and
    kerning (letterspacing), and now they can't stop noticing it. It really is like
    a sickness, but a wonderful one.\r\n\r\nThe pervasive nature of type and typography
    also means that awareness and mastery of it is directly tied to one's ability
    to effectively communicate (and persuade) others. It can feel very empowering
    to know that simply how you <em>organize and characterize</em> your words can
    make them more powerful/effective. It's subtle, but that's part of its power:
    flying below people's radar, straight to their minds.\r\n\r\nPlus, it's got creative,
    aesthetic, and expressive components, which are inherently emotional and therefore
    passionate.\r\n\r\n<cite>1. When is typography political?</cite>\r\n\r\nSee <a
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jan_Tschichold\">Jan Tschichold</a>, or the
    more concise <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/wiki/Jan%20Tschichold\">Typophile
    wiki</a>.\r\n\r\n<cite>2. Why do so many typographers have manifestos?</cite>\r\n\r\nFew
    people listen to discussions of typography unless you shout and over-simplify.
    Just like politics. Also, it's a bunch of passionate people who spend long periods
    alone fidgeting with minutae. That can make one...very emphatic.\r\n\r\n<cite>3.
    If typography is so important, how come some many people ignore it?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    typewriter and the computer. The typewriter made 'typesetting' accessible to the
    general masses while simultaneously obliterating it. Then, the computer eventually
    brought back all of the controls and visuals to people who had typewriter-based
    knowledge, making sophisticated typography appear 'easy' and 'automated'. Now,
    everyone's mother believes they can typeset simply by spilling copy into a word
    processor. Technically they're correct, but that's akin to saying \"I'm a pressman\"
    because you own and maintain a laser printer.\r\n\r\nAnd what Hrant said."
  created: '2006-01-25 14:39:34'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Jonathan Hoefler made a neat analogy in his Type Radio interview that went
    something like this: \"graphic designers are obsessive, but type designers are
    even more obsessive\u2026 just like Star Trek fans are intense fans, but Doctor
    Who fans are even more intense.\""
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: At the risk of being rude, I find graphic design, at least as it happens
      to exist now, an incomprehensible interest. Of all the things I've tried to
      do, text type design is most similar in its appeal to programming language design,
      where good language design is understood as producing Scheme rather than Java.
    created: '2006-01-25 16:24:24'
  created: '2006-01-25 15:30:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "George, I think there is indeed a strong parallel\r\nbetween programming
    and type design, especially\r\nin the definition of spacing (hence notan).\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    something just hit me concerning the comparison of\r\nmaking a physical tool like
    a screwdriver, versus a font.\r\nIt's off-topic I guess, but I can't resist:\r\n\r\nThe
    expressive limitations of making physical objects,\r\nespecially those related
    to the hand, are paralleled by\r\nthe expressive limitations of chirographic type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-25 16:44:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">\u201Cgraphic designers are obsessive, but type designers are even more
    obsessive\u2026\r\n\r\nThis isn't necessarily personality, but the demands of
    the craft. Type is small, but every letter is multiplied thousands of times,so
    the slightest blunder is amplified by multiplication and looks bad.  Of course
    you need the personality to meet those demands. But being insane is not a *requirement*
    :)   \r\n\r\nThere are analogies in other crafts. In cabinet making, if you join
    two pieces of wood, you have a certain tolerance--you can go plus or minus a certain
    distance from your mark (1/16\"?), and it won't matter. If you are machining two
    pieces of metal to fit together, the tolerance is less. Is joining metal more
    'obsessive'? I would say just that the demands of the crafts are different. \r\n\r\nGraphic
    design--which chooses and lays out type, among other things--is on a bigger scale
    than type design, so the tolerances are a little greater, like wood vs metal. "
  created: '2006-01-25 17:07:11'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Yes, it''s always quite healthy & helpful to heap scorn on your potential
    customers - no wait.... '
  children:
  - author:
      name: George Horton
    body: 'Sorry Eben, but no scorn''s involved; all I mean to say is that an interest
      in one field needn''t imply an interest in the other. After all, the evidence
      that not all graphic designers are deeply interested in text is all around us:
      one of the most horrifying books I own is called, misleadingly, New Book Design.
      Cunningly sold in a wrapper to prevent flicking through before purchase, 95%
      of the designers featured in it apparently despise extended text.'
    created: '2006-01-25 22:21:50'
  created: '2006-01-25 22:03:36'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Why are type designers passionate about their craft? Even more than typographers,
    it is very hard to make a decent living at typography. This has two results. First,
    most people who aren't passionate about type design are weeded out automatically,
    because with inadequate pay there's little other reason to do it. Second, people
    who continue to design type without making much money may then assume they must
    be passionate about it, thanks to the principle of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cognitive_dissonance\">cognitive
    dissonance</a>. Or maybe not.  :)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-25 22:43:02'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "William Berkson: <cite>There was an interesting comment by Jean Fran\xE7ois
    Porchez, saying that type design is more like archicture than it is like graphic
    design</cite> \r\n<strong>More like plumbing than architecture.\r\n\r\n</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2006-01-26 11:33:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"More like plumbing than architecture.\"\r\n\r\nNow we should be flush with
    pride :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-26 13:01:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.bbc.co.uk/radio4/history/inourtime/inourtime.shtml\r\n\r\nThis
    programme was playing on BBC Radio 4 as I left for work, so I didn't hear all
    of it, but links printing (and, by extension, type) with civil war and political
    movements in 16th and 17th century Britain.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-01-26 13:17:28'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>Perhaps I should add that I consider plumbing <cite>essential</cite>,
    unless You want to <a href=\"http://www.good-together.com/meandyou/index.html\">))&lt;&gt;((
    </a>forever.</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2006-01-26 14:58:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Perhaps I should add that I consider plumbing essential...\"\r\n\r\nFredo,
    LOL!!! I also think plumbing is essential to typography, it helps remove the crap
    we so often see :-)\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-26 15:13:09'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: To be entirely emotional about it, sometimes it feels like the universe is
    tied up in code, in language and consequently in letters.
  created: '2006-01-26 15:23:34'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "> ))<>((  hahahah. good one!\r\n\r\n> apparently despise extended text\r\n\r\nMaybe.
    Or are afraid of it. \r\n\r\nThe visual marketplace has some share of blame as
    well. People make what they like to some extent, but they also make what they
    are asked to make as well. Particularly if they are underpaid & overworked.\r\n\r\nI
    agree that more respect & understanding of older forms are needed but I don't
    think that, as it is sometimes put about by some type designers, that the last
    20 years of graphic design is know-nothing dreck and below interest. When you
    wrote \"graphic design, at least as it happens to exist now, an incomprehensible
    interest\", it sounded to me as if this might be your point of view. Instead I
    think you probably meant that as a generalization and statement of taste rather
    than as a blanket condemnation. Anyway, one man's food is another man's poison
    etc. \r\n\r\nPlease feel free to get into the specific nitty grit."
  created: '2006-01-26 22:03:29'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Yup, just a statement of taste. Graphic design is visual rhetoric; I find
    it easier to think critically about verbal arguments. And graphic design is too
    free-form in its associations, insufficiently isolable from the rest of mental
    life, to suit my character. I like arts which make structuralism possible, and
    by the same token I think that literary criticism reached its apogee with Northrop
    Frye. Not many critics would now agree with me there - though that, of course,
    is because most of them are know-nothing dreck.
  created: '2006-01-26 23:10:07'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I often compare designing typefaces to designing furniture - they have to
    serve both aesthetic and functional purposes, and the different pieces need to
    go together.\r\n\r\nOh, and to tackle on of the reporter's questions:\r\n\r\n>
    3. If typography is so important, how come some many people ignore it?\r\n\r\nThere
    are plenty of vital things that people take for granted. Air. Water. Typography.
    Mostly nobody notices unless they're really messed up, and then everybody makes
    a fuss....\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-27 09:20:47'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<cite> There are plenty of vital things that people take for granted. Air.
    Water. Typography. Mostly nobody notices unless they\u2019re really messed up,
    and then everybody makes a fuss\u2026.</cite> \r\n<strong>Like... plumbing!</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2006-01-27 12:51:45'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "The two things that I've recognized that make type design important to me
    are:\r\n\r\n1) We're not working the machine, we're working in the guts of the
    machine. It is more like plumbing in that we're working a level deeper than graphic
    design. We're making the tools graphic designers use. The only reason the tools
    work is because people are passionate about them, even in the face of disinterest.
    A home owner may appreciate good carpentry and even know who the carpenter was,
    and a carpenter may appreciate a well designed hammer, but neither of them ask
    who designed the hammer. And they'd be even less interested in who designed the
    nail the hammer was used on.\r\n\r\n2) We really have no idea what we're doing.
    Just how do little marks on a page transmit thought? Makes no sense really. We
    have a pretty good idea what happens up to the back of the eyeball, and we know
    what parts of the brain translate the information, but how on earth can you read
    a line of Shakespeare and understand what went through the mind of a man who died
    a few hundred years before you existed? And yet we know how to make those little
    marks have meaning in relation to this process and what we do in designing typefaces
    really matters in the reading process. Something has to be built into the human
    brain that makes it possible for people to design type by intuitition. I think
    it's the most exciting thing I do except for playing with the grandchildren.\r\n\r\nGeorge\r\n\r\n
    I felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2006-01-28 17:04:20'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I'm not a type designer but a enthusiast of type and I'm obssesive, that's
    how I manage to get the attention type requires.\r\n\r\nType is political because
    it is linked to writing systems and styles which are imposed by political powers
    and represend ideological standings.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-01-28 21:32:59'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Like practically all other arts, <em>passion is a requirement</em> for success
    at type design. It isn't much different in that sense from music, dance, drama,
    writing, painting, drawing, filmmaking and other visual arts. Every musician I
    know personally is very passionate about what they do. Their passion is fundamental
    to their human condition---their musical human condition. It's vital and necessary
    to their art and the crafting of their music. Their craft produces their art.
    The same applies to every writer and actor I know personally. Likewise the task
    of designing fine typefaces demands attention to small details.\r\n\r\nThe obsessive-compulsive
    syndrome applies to some type designers but not others. We don't all function
    that way. I know at least two other type designers who fit the obsessive-compulsive
    shoe. One would never admit it, while the other knowingly declares himself so.\r\n\r\nOne
    man's pleasure is another man's pain\r\nOne takes a picture he will never see
    again\r\n\r\nMe: The O-C syndrome does not fit my personality or behavioral inclinations
    so I reject it. Grappling with repeated minutia is the part of font-making I enjoy
    the least. Designing the principal character set in minute detail is fun and rewarding;
    constructing all the extra parts that make up a full font is an arduous and depressing
    chore I force myself to do (altho fitting all those pieces together can be fun).
    The desire to complete each font provides some of the motivation I need to overcome
    the challenge of repetition. The remaining impetus comes from an innate <em>passion</em>
    for what I'm doing. This passion is an intuitive and natural emotional response
    to the art. Passion is a large part of every artist's <em>inner life</em>, and
    becomes a significant part of our real lives. Artists are as artists do. \r\n\r\nIn
    short, it's an abiding interest.\r\n\r\nNon-artist friends say I am \"obsessed\"
    with art & design. What crap. They simply don't understand what they're talking
    about. They have a much lower tolerance than I do for dealing with repetitive
    detail---and I thought my pains for infinite repetition were low(!) I don't share
    the enthusiasm my friend has for classic sports cars, but it would never occur
    to me to label him \"obsessed\"; they're just his passion, and only one part of
    a balanced domestic life. \"Obsessed\" implies complete absorption by a single
    activity. The same passion-not-obsession applies to the themes I pursue in the
    fonts I make. Those who think I am obsessed with futurism and linear design fail
    to comprehend that those are just the themes that interest me---the material I
    have the most enthusiasm for. Why does it have to be \"obsession\"?\r\n\r\nBecause
    people say it is.\r\n\r\nNot for me, thanks.\r\n\r\n<em>Of course you need the
    personality to meet those demands.</em>\r\nPractitioners don't necessarily \"need\"
    that kind of personality, but it certainly helps. You need it to produce fonts
    full-time for a living.\r\n\r\nOne thing that concerns me is the loose wielding
    of the term \"obsessive-compulsive\" by graphic designers, type designers, laypeople,
    journalists---by just about everybody in relation to type and graphic designers.
    Apparently there are two kinds of <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Obsessive_compulsive\"
    target=\"_new\">obsessive-compulsive</a> syndrome. 1)&nbsp;Obsessive-compulsive
    disorder; 2)&nbsp;Obsessive-compulsive personality disorder.</nobr> I call it
    a \"syndrome\" because I believe \"disorder\" is a misguided and unfair label,
    and a misapprehension of the phenomenon. Only since the invention of analytical
    psychiatry in the 20th century has this kind behavioral tendency (or personality
    trait, take your pick) been called a disorder. In all pre-20th century recorded
    history the \"O-C-afflicted\" were called, simply, artists, artisans, craftsmen
    and technicians. Calling their behaviour a disorder implies some kind of malfunction,
    or that the person is somehow defective---a potentially fatuous insult to those
    who happen to fit the syndrome.\r\n\r\n<em>The fact that type design is much less
    appreciated than architecture is, I think, just a matter of general ignorance.</em>
    \r\n\r\nTrue. But how did this state of affairs come to be?\r\n\r\nType is a passive
    experience; architecture is an interactive one. Type is a reflexive shaper of
    human condition; architecture is the practical cradle of everyday living (the
    human condition). \r\n\r\nType and lettering are as visible as architecture, but
    people are not forced to deal with lettering consciously or mechanically. We read
    text, absorb the message and emotional resonance suggested by the type style---and
    we're done. The experience takes place largely inside our minds. Type is everywhere,
    and subliminal, existing as embedded virtualities\u2020, but we don't live inside
    fonts or interact with them the way we dwell in and outside buildings, and interact
    with architecture. To read the title on a book cover and sense the emotional impulse
    of the typography I don't have to interact with it physically, or manipulate it
    mechanically in any way, or be conscious of typography's hidden mechanisms. Pretending
    to be a lay person for a moment: To enter my house I have to open and close the
    front gate, and the front door (architecture is practical). To get to the kitchen
    or the bathroom I have to negotiate the hallway. The house is an object of architectural
    design I interact with on a personal wavelength, forming a close familiarity over
    many years. \r\n\r\nThe non-typographer/non-designer rarely has anything to do
    with typographic design, whereas a large percentage of lay people acquire at least
    a passing familiarity with architecture by building or renovating houses, and
    from living in them. For non-typographers, type is not necessarily a personal
    experience, but more frequently a mass experience. Fonts are served up to the
    public by designers in automatic fashion. Lay persons do not acquire or seek particular
    fonts on the products they buy\u2021; they are not given a choice (in commercial
    artwork). Whereas specific architecture is chosen and sought out by lay people
    and designers alike, and it's a manual, individual, personal affair. Can I choose
    the font used for the titles of a movie I want to watch? Nope. Its design is a
    form of mass-produced industrial art---take it or leave it, whole. If I watch
    the movie I'm forced to take it. But if I don't like the architectural details
    of the house I'm buying I can force the architect to change those details instead
    of choosing another house.\r\n\r\nArchitecture is customizable---typography is
    consumed unaltered.\r\n\r\nThe buildings we work in determine our human condition
    too. When an artfully-designed office building from an earlier century is demolished
    and replaced with a sterile, soulless, featureless lump clad in mirror glass outside
    and stainless steel inside, the change exerts an impact on the people forced to
    work in the replacement building with its dubious architectural value*. It changes
    their view of architecture, cultivating awareness and cognition of architectural
    design.\r\n\r\n\u2020 If I remember correctly, <em>embedded virtuality</em> is
    a term coined by Xerox PARC and MIT media lab researchers to describe software
    running on personal computers (desktop, palmtop & wearables), as a replacement
    term for the cyberdelic meta-twaddle \"virtual reality\", which does not exist
    as such, ie: \"virtual reality\" is a fanciful term because it isn't realistic
    yet.\r\n\r\n\u2021 Then again, the products consumers choose to buy are partly
    determined by packaging and advertising typography, allowing them to choose fonts
    in a sense.\r\n\r\n* What choice are we given? Accept working in the stainless
    steel casket or find a job in another building with spirit. Some workers report
    feeling dehumanized or culturally impoverished by bland modern and post-modern
    architecture.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>So, typographer; pornographer. Mere coincidence?
    I think not\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nIf you're joking, fine :^)  If not, the connection
    is superficial and purely philological. What about photographer, biographer, cartographer,
    oceanographer? The only thing these terms have in common is the suffix \"ograph\"
    meaning \"of a graphic or visual nature\". No meaningful coincidence, just philological
    verismilitude.\r\n\r\n<em>When is typography political?</em>\r\n\r\nWhen the German
    Kaiser Maximilian I commissioned Fraktur (a blackletter) for use as a standard
    font thruout Germany to displace the antiqua style of the Italian area typographers.
    Antiqua had rapidly displaced blackletter thruout Europe as the standard font
    for printing with moveable type soon after the center of printing shifted from
    Mainz to Venice. Fraktur was Maximilian's way of reasserting Germanic national
    identity. The plan failed because he did not follow it thru; during his lifetime
    the Fraktur face was only used to print books for the Kaiser's personal library.\r\n\r\nTypography
    was political again in Germany during the reign of the National Socialists. Once
    again the schizm was between blackletter and roman type styles. The Nazis outlawed
    the use of all Blackletters, spuriously declaring them an invention of the Jews.
    Blackletters had been in continuous use and development from the Gothic medieval
    period until the 1930's. The Nazi vilification of Blackletters stigmatized them
    as \"impure\" and \"non-Aryan\", an unwanted aberration in their classical Teutonic
    scheme. That stigmatization has had a lasting negative effect on Blackletters
    right up to the present. Presently blackletters remain far more common in Germany
    than other countries, but nowhere near as popular as they were pre-Nazi. They
    continue to suffer an association with Nazism similar to the Swastika---an ancient,
    innocent symbol before the Nazis borrowed and used it so prominently. \r\n\r\n<em>A
    home owner may appreciate good carpentry and even know who the carpenter was,
    and a carpenter may appreciate a well designed hammer, but neither of them ask
    who designed the hammer. And they'd be even less interested in who designed the
    nail the hammer was used on.</em>\r\n\r\nCarpentry, hammers and nails are only
    components in architecture and cannot be considered architectural design.\r\n\r\nHow
    about the architecture of a home? Some home owners at least, take an interest
    the in the architectural style and detail of the dwelling they live in, choosing
    one style of architecture over another. And what about people who add extensions
    to their homes? Some decision about appropriate architecture has to be made to
    avoid reducing the value of the home by adding an extension in a conflicting style.\r\n\r\n<em>We
    really have no idea what we're doing.</em>\r\n\r\nReally? (We?) Okay...as a writer
    and a designer of advertising, and a type designer, I know precisely what I'm
    doing and exactly how I do it.\r\n\r\n<em>Just how do little marks on a page transmit
    thought?</em>\r\n\r\nBy way of language. Written language and the semantic meaning
    of words. Words and combinations of words embody emotions, ideas, thoughts, and
    human experience, codified in language and literary conventions we learn by studying
    and agreeing on their meaning. It's called philology, writing and literature.
    No mystery.\r\n\r\nThe \"little marks on a page\" don't transmit thought; language
    and writing codifiy thought, and typography verbalizes it in visual form. We decode
    the visual form by reading the text and rationalizing its content.\r\n\r\n<em>We
    have a pretty good idea what happens up to the back of the eyeball, and we know
    what parts of the brain translate the information, but how on earth can you read
    a line of Shakespeare and understand what went through the mind of a man who died
    a few hundred years before you existed?</em>\r\n\r\nBy cognition and ratiocination
    of what he wrote, and comparison with our own life experience. You read the text,
    perceive the narrative, then rationalize its meaning by deduction, comparing the
    bard's thoughts with your personal memories. Everyone knows what a poobah (king)
    is, not to mention jealousy, love, hatred and rivalry---all common themes in Shakespeare
    and other literature.\r\n\r\nThe style of a roman text font used to print a literary
    work has little bearing on how printed words and their meaning are perceived.
    Text fonts are primarily functional machines. Set it in Caslon, Bembo, Clarendon,
    or something else close to the antiqua model...the \"voice\" of a text font at
    text point sizes doesn't make much difference to meaning, as long as it's readable.
    The inflection and voice of a specific type style only comes into its own in display
    typography.\r\n\r\nIn a broad sense, Shakespeare's mind is understood through
    the semantic content of his writing. To grasp the full import requires specific
    knowledge of the historical figures, periods and politics he wrote about. The
    bard's work is densely layered in the extreme. People without that historical
    knowledge who say they understand Shakespeare are kidding themselves to varying
    degrees. Only readers equipped with the background knowledge can understand his
    work with accuracy and completeness.\r\n\r\nOkay Shakespeare lovers---kick my
    arse.\r\n<br>\r\n<br>\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-01-29 18:26:01'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Carpentry, hammers and nails are only components in architecture and
    cannot be considered architectural design.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry, that's a harsh interpretation.
    To be more precise: carpentry <em>can be</em> an element in architecture, but
    is more typically a component or sub-building block. Architecture is made up of
    elements: wall, roof, door, widow, column, frame, post, lintel, pediment, architrave,
    plinth, stylobate, frieze, etc. When these elements are made of wood, carpentry
    is a method of fabrication. Nails are materials, and hammers are sub-tools that
    never become components in finished architecture---unless the builder is a surrealist
    (an appealing idea, imagine a hammer permanently fixed in a wall as part of the
    architecture :^).\r\n\r\nSeveral people have compared fonts to tools. Vis-\xE0-vis
    designers use fonts as tools and a form of visual plumbing that \"powers\" communication
    arts. But fonts are more than tools or plumbing---fonts consist of detailed ready-made
    artwork that designers use as both tools and major elements in graphic design.
    That makes fonts analogous to <strong>machines</strong>. Like cars for example:
    cars are tools of transport, and also elements of lifestyle, industrially-designed
    sculpture prized for their aesthetic as well as their practical value (as tools).
    Fonts fulfill a similar role in communication design---aesthetic machines.\r\n\r\n<em>...my
    own lack of articulation and imagination.</em>\r\n\r\nJosh, you founded Tyopgraphica.
    That's inspired and imaginative :^) Articulation is sometimes expressed as love
    and commitment for a thing, for you, typography.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-01-31 18:43:00'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: ">To grasp the full import requires specific knowledge of the historical figures,
    periods and politics he wrote about.\r\n\r\nMore important would be the specific
    knowledge of the historical figures, period and politics that made up his environment,
    audience and patrons.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-01-31 20:36:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Reading over the comments here I would summarize:\r\n\r\n1. A large part
    of the reaction of surprise or amusement that type designers are passionate about
    their work often comes from the fact that the questioner doesn't find type interesting.\r\n\r\n2.
    Because of market conditions if you are not passionate about type design you don't
    do it. \r\n\r\n3. Type design has a lot that is delightful for those who do it,
    as well as having some tedium. For the delights see above. \r\n\r\nOn politics,
    I do think that type design is reactive to great political and social movements,
    and not an influence for social change. (Printing itself, the internet etc are
    influences.) Design, including type design is sometimes a tool of propaganda for
    various movements. \r\n\r\nFinally, a taboo question: Is the pleasure of handling
    those sexy curves why most type designers are men?  "
  created: '2006-01-31 20:59:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Finally, a taboo question: Is the pleasure of handling those sexy curves
    why most type designers are men?\"\r\n\r\nWell, that mightbe the fun answer :-)\r\nThe
    truth probably lies in the history of type coming from the printing trades and
    all that lifting of lead filled job cases, cutting steel punches, whirring machinery,
    you know, guy stuff :-)\r\nNow days, there is no excuse so come on ladies! Join
    the fun!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-01-31 21:06:09'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>A large part of the reaction of surprise or amusement that type designers
    are passionate about their work often comes from the fact that the questioner
    doesn\u2019t find type interesting.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, and therefor (more often
    than not) doesn't understand it.\r\n\r\n<em>More important would be the specific
    knowledge of the historical figures, period and politics that made up his environment,
    audience and patrons.</em>\r\n\r\nProbably...hard to say just how influencial
    his immediate environment was. But certainly yes, the politics surrounding Shakespeare
    the man must have been a very significant influence on what he wrote. It would
    not suprize me to learn that many events and personalities in his life were woven
    into his fiction. Most writers do this.\r\n\r\n\"The writer gathers his material
    where he finds it\" --- Philip K. Dick\r\n\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-01 15:48:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> We really have no idea what we\u2019re doing\r\n\r\nThat is so true!\r\n\r\n>
    The Nazi vilification of Blackletters stigmatized them as \u201Cimpure\u201D\r\n>
    and \u201Cnon-Aryan\u201D, an unwanted aberration in their classical Teutonic\r\n>
    scheme. That stigmatization has had a lasting negative effect on\r\n> Blackletters
    right up to the present.\r\n\r\nBut I think it's very important to realize that
    the contemporary stigma does not come from the Nazi volte face - in fact it comes
    <cite>in spite</cite> of it! The current vilification of blackletter comes from
    its projection from a German style to a Nazi one. Essentially, the view that blackletter
    is fascist is linked to thinking that Germans are Nazis.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-07 19:41:40'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Yep. I wanted to include this view too but decided to restrict my account
    to the basic events. It's the paradox of that whole episode during World War II---by
    banning blackletters the Nazis sought to dissociate themselves and their twisted
    ideology---not so much from the blackletter tradition and what it really represented---but
    from the Jews, as a way of maligning them further. Yet somehow that dissociation
    has been reversed into an association, identifying blackletters with Nazism.\r\n\r\nIts
    a terrible misfortune for blackletters, and a tragic disservice to the German
    people of the present. In western eyes blackletters = Nazism = Germans.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-08 10:24:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> as a way of maligning them further.\r\n\r\nI think the consensus is that
    was a \"bonus\". :-/  The real\r\nreason was that the more their empire expanded
    the less\r\ntheir subjects could read their commands.\r\n\r\n> that dissociation
    has been reversed into an association\r\n\r\nI think it's merely been -conveniently-
    ignored.\r\nBasically a case of passive historical revisionism.\r\n\r\n> In western
    eyes blackletters = Nazism = Germans.\r\n\r\nAnd there are certain people who
    actually benefit from\r\nmaintaining this, as well as having a typestyle one can\r\nhold
    up as a symbol of the enemy (since typestyles can't\r\nfight back). In perspective,
    a very minor crime, but in\r\nour context one we should reveal and reverse.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-08 15:08:14'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I think the consensus is that was a \"bonus\". :-/ The real\r\nreason
    was that the more their empire expanded the less\r\ntheir subjects could read
    their commands.</em>\r\n\r\nAh-ha, thanks for bumping my memory. I know I've read
    that somewhere. The 'they pinned it on the Jews' theory fits the standard view
    of Nazism a bit too perfectly.\r\n\r\n<em>conveniently ignored</em>\r\n\r\nHistory
    is a pile of debris.\r\n\r\n\"History is an Angel being blown backwards into the
    future. And the angel want to go back and fix things---to repair the things that
    have benn broken--but there's a strom blowing in from paradise. And the storm
    keeps blowing the angel backwards---into the future.\"\r\n\r\nThat's Laurie Anderson's
    retelling of Walter Benjamin's Theses on the Philosophy of History.\r\n\r\nThe
    storm = progress. Paradise = idealized historical vision.\r\n\r\n<em>And there
    are certain people who actually benefit from\r\nmaintaining this, as well as having
    a typestyle one can\r\nhold up as a symbol of the enemy (since typestyles can\u2019t\r\nfight
    back). In perspective, a very minor crime, but in\r\nour context one we should
    reveal and reverse.</em>\r\n\r\nSad. Very sad. I'm as eager to reverse it as you.\r\n\r\nCould
    this be made the topic of a presentation for Typecon one year? To make the initiative
    pay off it would need press coverage. Better yet, put the presentation on the
    road; tour it across the states and put up a supporting website. Deluge the news
    media with press releases for each venue to ensure continuous coverage.\r\n\r\nIf
    we really want to fix this problem it isn't enuff for us to talk about it, and
    lament, in this obscure environment.\r\n\r\nAnother idea springs to mind: quite
    a few typophile regulars are very keen on blackletters. The weekly type battle
    comp is fun, but can we channel that level of enthusiasm into a billboard campane?
    The lecture tour would make good grass roots work but probably preach mainly to
    people already interested in communication arts.\r\n\r\nTo reach the guy/gal in
    the street, billboards can't be beat.\r\n\r\nbest regards,\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-08 16:43:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "During my part in the panel discussion about blackletter at\r\nATypI-Leipzig
    in 2000*, what I tried to do is show people the\r\nhidden (more like obscured)
    merits of the style. I think it did\r\nhave some positive effect, because Colin
    Banks -somebody too\r\nvenerable to be easily swayed- came up to me subsequently\r\nand
    told me: \"You changed my mind.\" That was the highlight\r\nof that conference
    for me. Well, that and getting to ride in\r\nLuc[as]'s Trabant.  :-)\r\n\r\n*
    http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html\r\n\r\nBut really, probably even
    more effective than conference presentations\r\nwould be the actual making and
    release of good, contemporary blackletter\r\nfonts, so that sympathetic graphic
    designers can use them on the ground,\r\nthus getting people at large to really
    think about it. It would be critical\r\nthough that the fonts look of this age
    - and that's certainly a tricky one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-08 17:20:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">In western eyes blackletters = Nazism = Germans.\r\n\r\nThe association
    of blackletter with Naziism is a reality, though mistaken and unfortunate.  \r\n\r\nThe
    equation of Nazis and Germans is a straw man; I just don't hear or read people
    who blame today's Germans for the sins of some of their grandparents or great
    grandparents--and it would be a foolish and reprehensible thing to do in any case.
    \   \r\n\r\n>certain people who actually benefit from\r\nmaintaining this\r\n\r\nRubbish.
    No one benefits from the mistaken identification of blackletter and Naziism. \r\n\r\nFrom
    what I have read here on Typophile in earlier threads, some specific styles of
    blackletter were favored by the Nazis early on, and in eg movies about the Nazi
    period designers should use the proper typefaces. \r\n\r\nAbout the blaming blackletter
    on the Jews, from what I have read it is a case of not 'either-or' but 'both-and'.
    They both had an imperial reason to drop black letter, and they absurdly blamed
    blackletter on the Jews, as they blamed them for every ill of inter-war German
    society. "
  created: '2006-02-08 18:06:56'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Hrant, type vendors and type industry spokespersons would have to push these
    fonts, together with blackletter demystifying articles to quell lingering doubt---to
    get graphic designers to use them.\r\n\r\nThat's one very big ask. Courting the
    faith of vendors...improbable. The only route I can think of is to bill the new
    breed of contemporary blackletters as successors to the script font mania---due
    to burn out sometime soon.\r\n\r\n<em>...look of this age...</em>\r\n\r\nAssuming
    the design challenge can be solved, the other tricky part is commercial end-market
    resistance. Graphic designers can be persuaded thru their hearts, or sheer trendiness.
    Agency heads and their clients are hard-headed pragmatists who respond to commercial
    reality.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-08 18:29:39'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I just don\u2019t hear or read people who blame today\u2019s Germans
    for the sins of some of their grandparents or great grandparents</em>\r\n\r\nI
    do. I correspond with a few Germans in Hamburg who say its still a problem. Its
    not literally a matter of westerners blaming today's Germans for the damage done
    by the Nazis, or even Germans blaming themselves. They're past the guilt trip.
    Its an image problem. Whenever the topic of blackletters comes up, the false association
    comes with it.\r\n\r\n<em>No one benefits from the mistaken identification of
    blackletter and Naziism.</em>\r\n\r\nNeo Nazis and white supremacists do. Blackletters
    are their standard emblematic font.\r\n\r\nThe original Nazis dropped blackletter
    because their conquered subjects had difficulty reading it. Blackletters hampered
    the effectiveness of their propaganda. So they switched to antiqua to make themselves
    better heard---and feared.\r\n\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-08 18:42:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Neo Nazis and white supremacists do. \r\n\r\nI stand corrected. I suppose
    it helps them attract like-minded people, though I would think that playing on
    fear and hatred of foreigners is quite enough, human nature being what it is. "
  created: '2006-02-08 19:20:12'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>\u2026type vendors and type industry spokespersons would have to push
    these fonts, together with blackletter demystifying articles to quell lingering
    doubt\u2014-to get graphic designers to use them\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nAh-hem\u2026
    this is actually something I'm working on. Unfortunately, I can't go into tremendous
    detail here on a public forum, but please stay tuned. Professionally and privately,
    I've got a few plans that will come out later this year.\r\n\r\nAnd I know that
    I'm not alone. Just look at the not-yet-released typeface [[Underware]] was using
    at TypeCon, or [[Kaas]] from [[Village]], or some of the new releases from [[Die
    Gestalten Verlag]] (although these later are display fonts, and not real blackletters,
    per se).\r\n\r\nTo think that it is not in a vendor's best interest to support
    blackletter is silly. A vendor's best interest is to sell more fonts. Some vendors
    are sitting a top large piles of blackletters fonts that no one buys or uses.
    But do you think the vendors wish they'd be rid of them? When vendors want to
    pull fonts our of their programs, they pull fonts out of their programs ;-)"
  created: '2006-02-08 20:08:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We could be accused of veering off-topic,\r\nbut I think this is really good
    material\r\nfor question #1 at the beginning. In fact\r\nthe politics of type
    is nowhere as crucial\r\nand alive as in the realm of blackletter.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n>
    I just don\u2019t hear or read people\r\n\r\nHear: I have this crazy hunch that
    the people you hang\r\nout with agree with you (and don't agree with me), or\r\nat
    least know what you don't want to hear. It is people\r\nyou don't agree with that
    you should pay most attention to.\r\n\r\nRead: Well of course not. Freedom of
    the press, eh? Don't make me laugh.\r\n\r\n> No one benefits from the mistaken
    identification of blackletter and Naziism.\r\n\r\nOn the contrary, the availability
    of a tangible symbol of the enemy is of\r\nsupreme usefulness. Think (specifically)
    of how you would impoverish\r\nvisual communication -especially for a certain
    party- if you took away\r\nthe swastika. Which is not at all to say that the swastika
    was good for\r\nanybody - but now that it's with us, milk it baby!  :-/\r\n\r\nThe
    question that remains for you to answer, William:\r\nWhy do people persist in
    thinking blackletter is Nazi, so\r\nmany years on, and after the fact that they
    disowned it!\r\n\r\n<strong><cite>And what are you, as a typophile, and a believer\r\nin
    fairness I presume, prepared to do to correct that?</cite></strong>\r\n\r\n> Neo
    Nazis and white supremacists do.\r\n\r\nAnd only because that's the general (if
    implicit and\r\nsilent) feeling among most everybody. Certainly not\r\nbecause
    they're exceptionally insightful!  :-/ They're\r\nthe only people who use it \"positively\",
    but much more\r\nfrequent is its \"negative\" use. Remember the billboard\r\nin
    West LA with side-by-side portraits of Stalin, Hitler\r\nand Saddaam, with a swastika
    strategically emblazoned.\r\n\r\nAnd just like the swastika, blackletter is used
    to mark\r\nnon-Nazi and even non-German things that are anti-Jewish.\r\nCrazy?
    Check out the cover of this novel...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/lipstickjihad.jpg]\r\n\r\nNevermind
    that the Nazis thought as little of Arabs as they did\r\nof Jews! :-/  There just
    weren't many Arabs (certainly not rich\r\nor powerful ones) in Nazi territory.\r\n\r\nDon't
    get me wrong, I think it works. If the Turks had a logo\r\nor a typestyle that
    was associated with them in the general\r\nconsciousness, we'd leverage it too!
    The problem is when power\r\nis abused, and when admissions are lacking. That's
    what gets\r\nso much of the world pissed. But that really is getting off-topic.\r\n\r\n>
    it is a case of not \u2018either-or\u2019 but \u2018both-and\u2019\r\n\r\nMore
    -typical- binarism. Is there nothing between full equality\r\nand full hierarchy?
    I contend that <cite>everything</cite> is in between.\r\n\r\nMaybe the Nazis wouldn't
    have gone ahead with the disowning of blackletter if they hadn't managed to concoct
    such a crazy excuse; but the important thing is the intent, and in this case the
    intent was to facilitate imperialism; something many people <cite>today</cite>
    can justly be accused of. And it's not like crazy excuses have\r\ngone out of
    fashion either...\r\n\r\n> ...or Kaas from Village ...\r\n\r\nNow Kaas, that's
    something we need to be paying attention to.\r\nIt's politico-cultural relevance
    and fearlessness is a wonder to behold.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-08 21:47:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, Dan, it would be super if you could get\r\nHans Heitmann's Fraktoer
    distributed properly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-08 21:58:21'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I have seen Fraktoer on your site, but otherwise I don't know anything about
    it. I presume that Hans Heitmann is still alive, so getting in touch with a foundry
    (or other channel) about distribution is a ball that is in his court (or yours)
    at the moment.\r\n\r\nHowever, that isn't necessarily the direction that I would
    personally go in in terms of a blackletter face to work in <strong>text</strong>
    sizes. Personally, I think that it is too stylized to be very efficient.\r\n\r\nBefore
    the 20th Century, it wasn't a problem for punchcutters to cut six-point blackletters
    that were fully legible. I think that those older forms are more legible than
    Fraktoer's. \r\n\r\nThe mistakes that brought about our present situation were
    foundry decisions during the late-20th century: since the photo-typesetting era,
    no one has seriously released or promoted a blackletter whose weight was optimized
    for text. Most of today's popular blackletter fonts are just digitations of the
    <strong>display</strong> sizes of centuries-old designs\u2026"
  created: '2006-02-08 22:41:49'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Guys, thanks for taking this up. \r\n\r\n<em>Ah-hem\u2026 this is actually
    something I\u2019m working on. Unfortunately, I can\u2019t go into tremendous
    detail here on a public forum, but please stay tuned. Professionally and privately,
    I\u2019ve got a few plans that will come out later this year.</em>\r\n\r\nCool.
    I'll wait patiently. This is a good sign.\r\n\r\n<em>...although these later are
    display fonts, and not real blackletters, per se</em>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/sentinel/rhodaelian/\"
    terget=\"_new\">Rhodaelian</a> is a display font too, and a step in the right
    direction, I think, towards bringing blackletter closer to roman forms. When I
    started designing it its spec was to be a classy Compacta challenger with millenial
    smarts influenced by the current sculpted, chiselled style of automotive body
    design. When it was finished I realized the sharp corners combined with Rhodealian's
    rigourous modularity to make it a contemporary blackletter (with lower contrast
    than traditional blackletters). Not what I set out to do, but I love the result.
    \"Happy accident\"? No, more like bending and pushing within an established discipline
    resulting in expansion of that discipline.\r\n\r\nShuould I post a Rhodie sample
    on this thread? \r\n\r\nI'm certain I could make a text-friendly version.\r\n\r\n<em>To
    think that it is not in a vendor\u2019s best interest to support blackletter is
    silly.</em>\r\n\r\nI didn't assume that is the case, if that's what you mean.
    Whatever, I was looking for ways to make a blackletter renaissance viable; it
    needs commercial support.\r\n\r\n<em>Some vendors are sitting a top large piles
    of blackletters fonts that no one buys or uses.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, its such a stupid
    waste.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-09 05:02:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the not-yet-released typeface Underware was using at TypeCon\r\nThe Underware
    site now has a <a href=\"http://www.underware.nl/site2/index.php3?id1=coming\">preview</a>
    of their 'Fakir'. Fabulous stuff from Underware, as usual.\r\n\r\n>And what are
    you, as a typophile, and a believer\r\nin fairness I presume, prepared to do to
    correct that?\r\nHrant, a style of script is not, um, a person. Nobody has any
    moral obligation to it. If somebody has a new idea on how to use blackletter that
    is useful or appealing today, then great, go for it. Otherwise forget it. As I
    said earlier, though type design has been influenced by politics, the design of
    letters is not inherently political. Not everything is moral or political Hrant,
    and that is one of the charms of type. Lighten up. "
  created: '2006-02-09 13:57:47'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "There are many styles of writing and lettering that have become extinct.
    I don't think that we have an obligation to try and revive any of them. Type lives
    in context, and although type can almost always adapt to new contexts, the world
    does always go on, in both good ways and bad.\r\n\r\nNevertheless, my little corner
    of the world has seen some of the most creative blackletters developed right inside
    of it (I'm not talking about Germany itself, rather just the Main-Rhine region
    around Frankfurt etc.). I'd hate to see that disappear permanently. I think that
    designers have a responsibility to preserve the visual culture around them, but
    it other designers don't do this, I can't force them. For instance if central
    Indiana has a great historical design scene that up and dies, I'm not about to
    be the one to step in and save it. Everyone has their own borders."
  created: '2006-02-09 15:11:10'
date: '2006-01-24 18:09:40'
title: Why are we so passionate?

---
