---
author:
  name: fredjonze
  picture: 111155
body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nI'm working on an OpenType font that works OK in Mac TextEdit and
  NeoOffice. The composite characters use the ccmp feature class. When I try the font
  in Mac Office 2004 the characters are not rendered per the composite and instead
  each glyph that is part of the composite character appears as a separate character
  on screen. It was my understanding from reading elsewhere that Mac Office 2004 had
  good support for unicode and OpenType. Do I need to use Volt instead of ccmp in
  FontLab?\r\n\r\nAny ideas?  Thanks,\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Fred,\r\n\r\nDo you have something like this on top of your list of features?\r\n<code>\r\nfeature
    aalt {\r\n   feature ccmp;\r\n} aalt;\r\n</code>\r\nIf you don't, add it. It might
    help solving your problem."
  children:
  - author:
      name: fredjonze
      picture: 111155
    body: "One more bit of information. I downloaded InDesignCS (Mac OSX) as I understand
      it has the best OpenType Unicode support. When I typed the characters in InDesign
      I found the same behaviors as with Word 2004...composite characters don't render
      properly. However, when I opened the glyph palette and double-clicked on the
      composite characters they rendered properly on-screen. When I back-spaced over
      the properly displayed characters they decomposed a glyph at a time...which
      makes me think that maybe I've done something wrong in either creating the font
      or assigning names in the OpenType features.\r\n\r\nAny ideas are very welcome.
      \ Thanks,"
    created: '2006-01-25 23:49:24'
  created: '2006-01-25 12:42:06'
- author:
    name: fredjonze
    picture: 111155
  body: "Hi Mike,\r\n\r\nNo, I didn't have the aalt feature. I added it to the feature
    list, but it didn't seem to have any effect on the rendering in Mac Word 2004.
    Here is a snippet of the two individual features. Unicode characters that are
    represented as a single unicode codepoint (such as U+026B) seem to display OK.
    Any composite characters, such as uni00430313) don't. On the screen they are rendered
    as a 'c' followed by a commaabove. Again, all works fine in TextEdit and NeoOffice.\r\n\r\nfeature
    aalt {\r\nfeature ccmp;\r\n} aalt;\r\n\r\n\r\nfeature ccmp {\r\n  sub C commaabovecmb
    by uni00430313;\r\n  sub c commaabovecmb by uni00630313;\r\n  sub C caroncmb by
    uni0043030C;\r\n  sub c caroncmb by uni0063030C;\r\n  sub C caroncmb commaabovecmb
    by uni0043030C0313;\r\n  sub C commaabovecmb caroncmb by uni0043030C0313;\r\n
    \ sub c caroncmb commaabovecmb by uni0063030C0313;\r\n  sub c commaabovecmb caroncmb
    by uni0063030C0313;\r\n  sub Ccaron commaabovecmb by uni0043030C0313;\r\n  sub
    ccaron commaabovecmb by uni0063030C0313;\r\n  sub K commaabovecmb by uni004B0313;\r\n
    \ sub k commaabovecmb by uni006B0313;\r\n  sub K wsuperior by uni004802B7;\r\n
    \ sub k wsuperior by uni006B02B7;\r\n  sub K wsuperior commaabovecmb by uni004B031302B7;\r\n
    \ sub K commaabovecmb wsuperior by uni004B031302B7;\r\n  sub uni004B0313 wsuperior
    by uni004B031302B7;\r\n  sub k wsuperior commaabovecmb by uni006B031302B7;\r\n
    \ sub k commaabovecmb wsuperior by uni006B031302B7;\r\n  sub uni006B0313 wsuperior
    by uni006B031302B7;\r\n  sub L commaabovecmb by uni004C0313;\r\n  sub l commaabovecmb
    by uni006C0313;"
  created: '2006-01-25 22:02:20'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Unfortunately I don't have a final answer to this problem, however I did
    some tests and here's what I found out:\r\n\r\nI took a typeface that had a ccmp
    feature and played around with it in InDesign CS and TextEdit.\r\n\r\n<strong>This
    is how the feature looks like:</strong>\r\n<code>feature ccmp {\r\n\tsub Ccaron
    dotbelowcmb by uni010C0323;\r\n\tsub R macroncmb by uni00520304;\r\n} ccmp;</code>\r\n\r\n<strong>This
    is how InDesign reenders it:</strong> (the first line is set in Times)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/calouste_ccmp.png]\r\n\r\n<strong>This
    is how the text stream looks like:</strong> (snippet of InDesign Tagged Text file)\r\n<code>C&lt;0x010C&gt;&lt;0x010C&gt;&lt;0x0323&gt;RR&lt;0x0304&gt;R</code>\r\n\r\nAs
    you see, the text stream is correct.\r\n\r\n<strong>Observations:</strong>\r\n\u2014
    TextEdit rendered the caracters correctly. These were inserted via the keyboard
    plus the system's Character Pallete.\r\n\u2014 InDesignCS rendered the caracters
    correctly, only when these were inserted via the Glyph Pallete.\r\n\u2014 Copying
    & pasting between TextEdit and InDesign worked correctly in both ways.\r\n\r\n\r\nSo,
    looks like something is broken somewhere, however it might not be the font itself.\r\n\r\n\r\nMiguel
    Sousa\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: fredjonze
      picture: 111155
    body: "Hi Miguel,\r\n\r\nIn my case, copying and pasting between TextEdit and
      InDesign did not work...in InDesign the characters were decomposed into separate
      glyphs just as though they were typed."
    children:
    - author:
        name: fredjonze
        picture: 111155
      body: 'Another bit of trivia...copy and paste from Mac TextEdit to InDesign
        only appears to work when you first insert a composite character from the
        glyph palette into a text block and then immediately paste the OpenType text
        into InDesign. Bizarre. '
      created: '2006-01-27 01:42:06'
    created: '2006-01-26 14:53:35'
  - author:
      name: fredjonze
      picture: 111155
    body: "Hi Miguel,\r\n\r\nI also noticed, that when the 'highlight substituted
      glyphs' is enabled in InDesign, the composite characters that are entered via
      the glyph palette show highlighted. I assumed that this meant that it would
      be substituting a different font...but it appears to indicate that it is substituting
      the composite character from the font as it is correctly rendered when the glyph
      palette is used.\r\n\r\nRegards,"
    created: '2006-01-26 15:04:35'
  created: '2006-01-26 02:36:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Miguel,\r\n\r\nYou're not doing anything wrong. InDesign does not (yet) support
    ccmp. Presumably neither does Word 2004.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  children:
  - author:
      name: fredjonze
      picture: 111155
    body: Is there a feature that does work in InDesign that I can use to accomplish
      the same goal? For instance, I've heard that Volt can now be added to a font
      and then opened in FontLab where the ccmp can be added. I was going to go down
      this road, but when I opened the FontLab font in Volt it wanted to clear the
      FontLab features, and I thought that this wouldn't work very well if I had to
      routinely rebuild the FontLab features.
    created: '2006-01-26 14:45:39'
  created: '2006-01-26 04:55:42'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Maybe I'm old-fashioned, but why not just build the composite characters and
    have them in your font's glyphset? Especially if they have Unicode indices. Perhaps
    someone smarter than I am - Adam, Thomas, John H, everyone else - can share some
    insight to the benefits of ccmp versus "standalone" composites?
  children:
  - author:
      name: fredjonze
      picture: 111155
    body: For these particular fonts, which are several native american languages,
      many of the codepoints for the composite characters do not exist in Unicode.
      The only alternative, as I understand, would be placing them in the PUA which
      will prevent them from being used in spell checking, find and replace and some
      applications that don't recognize the PUA.
    created: '2006-01-26 15:35:29'
  created: '2006-01-26 15:07:01'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Tom, thank you for shedding the light on this. I had looked into the <a href=\"http://store.adobe.com/type/browser/pdfs/OTGuide.pdf\">OpenType
    Layout Feature Support by Application</a> chart but found no reference to the
    <strong>ccmp</strong> feature, so I was not sure if it was supported or not.\r\n\r\nChester,
    like Fred said, there are no [[Unicode]] code-points assigned to these characters.
    The composite characters do indeed exist within the font, but we have to rely
    on the Glyph Composition/Decomposition(ccmp) feature to access them.\r\n\r\nI
    came across this problem when I was developing a font that included several \"unUnicoded\"
    characters for Armenian transliteration. The best solution I could think of was
    to use the <strong>ccmp</strong> feature.\r\n\r\nUsing something else (let's say
    <strong>liga</strong> for example) would simply be hacking. Personally I wouldn't
    do any workarounds on this. Just as an example, the <strong>locl</strong> feature
    is present in some Adobe fonts, nevertheless none of their applications support
    it yet.\r\n\r\nFred, you could use VOLT to implement the feature, but that won't
    produce any difference on InDesign's behavior.\r\n\r\nFred, I've also noticed
    one more thing. Looking at your 2nd post, I believe the order of the substitutions
    is incorrect. Sequences that are made up of larger number of glyphs must be placed
    before those that require fewer glyphs (f_f_i before f_i, for instance). So in
    your case, the order of lines 1 and 6 should be reversed.\r\n\r\nsub C commaabovecmb
    by uni00430313;\r\nsub C commaabovecmb caroncmb by uni0043030C0313;\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: fredjonze
      picture: 111155
    body: "I rearranged the order of the features and still no change with the InDesign
      behavior. I'm using TextEdit v1.4 and InDesign v4. I've replicated the same
      behavior on another Mac. In other words, direct typing doesn't work. A copy
      and paste only works if a composite character is entered via the glyph palette
      and the paste is done immediately after the composite character.\r\n\r\nI guess
      I may be up against a wall on this. In this case, since there may be no other
      option to still use Unicode and OpenType, can I try the liga feature until such
      a time that InDesign fully supports ccmp, then modify the OT features to ccmp,
      and redistribute the font? I'm assuming that the typed glyphs will be the same
      it's just the rendering mechanism that will be different. I assume the already
      typed documents will still be valid.\r\n\r\nAt this site I learned that InDesign
      only support 7 OpenType features, and ccmp isn't one of them.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/VOLT%20and%20InDesign/default.mspx\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    children:
    - author:
        name: Miguel Sousa
        picture: 110242
      body: "Fred, I never said that the rearrangement of the substitutions would
        make the feature (ccmp) to start working on InDesign. As Thomas said, InDesign
        does NOT support this feature yet, so there's no way around it. What the rearrangement
        most certainly does \u2014 and you might want to test this under TextEdit,
        since it seems to support the feature in question \u2014, is to make the substitution
        order to work as expected. With the order you had before, I'm quite positive
        that the substitution program would never have had been able to access the
        command on line 6, since line 1 would substitute the glyphs first.\r\n\r\nWhat
        do you mean by 'direct typing'? Are you able to type a <em>commaabovecmb</em>
        (U+0313) with your keyboard? What keyboard layout are you using? Is it a custom
        created one?\r\n\r\nHere's how Copy&Paste work for me:\r\n<ul>from InDesign
        to TextEdit\r\n<ol>Make a new document</ol>\r\n<ol>Make a text box</ol>\r\n<ol>Insert
        any composite glyph via the Glyph Palette (no other way works, since InDesign
        does NOT support the ccmp feature)</ol>\r\n<ol>Select the text and copy it</ol>\r\n<ol>Make
        a new document in TextEdit (RichText format)</ol>\r\n<ol>Paste it (Even the
        font settings go along!!)</ol>\r\n</ul>\r\n<ul>from TextEdit to InDesign\r\n<ol>Make
        a new document (in RichText)</ol>\r\n<ol>Insert any composite glyph via the
        keyboard (base glyph) plus the system's Character Palette (accent glyph)</ol>\r\n<ol>Select
        the text and copy it</ol>\r\n<ol>Make a new document in InDesign</ol>\r\n<ol>Make
        a text box</ol>\r\n<ol>Paste it (and select the correct font, if I haven't
        done that before)</ol>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nIt's obvious that you've hit a wall,
        if you're trying to make the substitutions work in InDesign through a ccmp
        feature. One thing I can think of right away that would make me not use a
        liga feature to accomplish this, is that the user can turn it off. It goes
        without saying that your neat text will completely break up in that scenario.
        So, if you want an alternative to ccmp, I would say Required Ligatures (rlig).
        However, InDesign does not support that one as well. I wonder if there's at
        least one feature that InDesign support which can't be turned off by the user...\r\n"
      children:
      - author:
          name: fredjonze
          picture: 111155
        body: "Sorry for the misunderstanding regarding the ordering of ccmp subs.
          As I mentioned I'm new to Unicode and Opentype and trying to learn as much
          as I can to accomplish the task at hand. I've used the generous references
          to InDesign limitations to understand the complexities that need to be addressed.
          By 'direct typing' I'm refering to using a Ukelele keyboard that enters
          multiple unicode codepoints with a single keystroke...as opposed to using
          the glyph palette.\r\n\r\nI copied the ccmp subs into a new liga feature,
          that proceeds ccmp, and the characters are rendering properly in InDesign.
          Yes, I realize it is a hack...but it appears to be only solution at this
          time other than resorting to a non-Opentype font. \r\n\r\nOne other hurdle
          is to get basic functionality with PhotoShop. That seems to be elusive as
          the liga hack doesn't appear to work properly...even though Adobe docs appear
          to indicate that liga is supported.\r\n\r\nWe have partial success in that
          they will be able to use NeoOffice, Mellel or TextEdit to type characters
          and then place the text into InDesign for publications. It appears that
          the text will cross platforms to the PC, where Word 2003 appears to support
          ccmp well enough. PDFs seem to generate OK using the font and properly transfer
          to folks that don't have the font installed. The other request was to use
          PhotoShop...but I'll need to keep experimenting to see if there is another
          alternative. We're hoping all of this will be sorted out better in the next
          several years. What's interesting is that apps like ComicLife, Safari, iWeb,
          iMovie, etc. all work well with the font with just the ccmp feature. I guess
          there's hope."
        children:
        - author:
            name: fredjonze
            picture: 111155
          body: "What I've found with more experimentation with Photoshop CS2 on MacOSX
            10.4...\r\n\r\nI have several different types of keyboard layouts I'm
            using. One is a standard keyboard with slight modifications to allow me
            to type the Unicode combining diacriticals with an option+ keystroke.
            Another keyboard is configured for 'touch typing' wherein a single keypress
            will enter the base + combining diacriticals + space modifiers. \r\n\r\nFor
            NeoOffice, TextEdit, Mellel, InDesign and some others both keyboards work
            well. However, I found that the 'touch type' keyboard doesn't work in
            PhotoShop. I experimented with the other keyboard...where I type a base
            character and then individually enter the combining diacriticals...and
            found that I need to 'double enter' the combining diacritical. Once I
            do this, the character is properly rendered. In other words, for the ccmp
            (or liga hack) \"sub C caroncmb commaabovecmb by uni0043030C0313\", I
            first type a 'C', then I need to enter my 'option+' keystroke equivalent
            for U+030C twice, then I need to enter my 'option+' keystroke equivalent
            for the U+0313 twice. When I do this the composite character is properly
            rendered in PhotoShop. I initially thought it might be a problem with
            using an 'option+' for  the keystroke...but the same actions are required
            if I use the OSX character palette. All other applications do not require
            a 'double entry' of combining diacriticals.\r\n\r\nAny ideas what I might
            be doing wrong...or if this is the way PhotoShop CS2 Mac works?\r\n\r\nThanks
            for any advice..."
          created: '2006-01-28 16:28:29'
        created: '2006-01-28 05:20:33'
      created: '2006-01-28 01:21:49'
    created: '2006-01-27 06:18:52'
  created: '2006-01-27 02:13:29'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: I'm using TextEdit v1.4 and InDesign v3.0.1, and have no problems copying
    and pasting between the two.
  created: '2006-01-27 02:21:17'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: 'For feature support in Adobe apps, the last page of this one may be more
    reliable: <a href="http://store.adobe.com/type/browser/pdfs/OTGuide.pdf" target="new">http://store.adobe.com/type/browser/pdfs/OTGuide.pdf</a>
    (PDF-document) ;-)'
  created: '2006-01-27 11:24:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Mac Office does not support OpenType Layout, and is not plugged into the Mac
    OS X stuff that does. Nor does it support AAT layout. In this respect it is trailing
    rather a long way behind the Windows version in terms of internationalisation.
  created: '2006-01-28 05:14:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chester: <em>Maybe I\u2019m old-fashioned, but why not just build the composite
    characters and have them in your font\u2019s glyphset? Especially if they have
    Unicode indices. Perhaps someone smarter than I am - Adam, Thomas, John H, everyone
    else - can share some insight to the benefits of ccmp versus \u201Cstandalone\u201D
    composites?</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nEven if characters do exist as precomposed diacritics
    in Unicode, there is a good argument for supporting them in the ccmp feature as
    well as encoding them in the cmap. The reason for this is that a user may be working
    with an input method that results in base + combining mark sequences or, even
    more likely, text normalisation will result in canonical decomposition to base
    + combining mark sequences. So what is originally input as \u01DA \\01DA\\ might,
    at any point between the input and the viewing of the document, be normalised
    to either \xFC\u030C \\00FC,030C\\ or to u\u0308\u030C \\0075,0308,030C\\ depending
    on the normalisation form used. All these character sequences are canonically
    equivalent, which means that a robust rendering technology, including fonts, should
    be able to display them all identically.\r\n\r\nThe easiest and quickest way to
    handle the canonical equivalence of \\01DA\\, \\00FC,030C\\ and \\0075,0308,030C\\
    is for the layout engine to check the font cmap table for an entry for U+01DA
    and, if it finds one, to perform a buffered character substitution of the mapped
    glyph whenever it encounters the strings \\00FC,030C\\) and \\0075,0308,030C\\.
    This does not require any work from the font developer, other than mapping U+01DA
    correctly. This is how Microsoft's Uniscribe engine handles such cases.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I am not confident at this stage that all rendering engines will perform this
    operation in the same way, so for the time being I am advising a full mapping
    of precomposed diacritics, whether encoded or not, in the ccmp feature. If the
    layout engine performs a character level substitution, the ccmp lookup entry for
    the sequence will be ignored, but if the layout engine does not, then the ccmp
    feature is the next best chance of rendering the sequence correctly and not as
    a munged mess of colliding combining marks.\r\n\r\n\r\nNote that all of this presumes
    that you intend to handle diacritics using GSUB. By far the best way to handle
    combining mark sequences is with the GPOS mark and mkmk features, as complex script
    developers have been doing for the better part of a decade now. This is much more
    flexible than GSUB, and does not rely on a font including a precomposed glyph
    for every diacritic that a user might want. Using GPOS, you can efficiently globalise
    a font for even those hard-to-reach languages."
  created: '2006-01-28 05:34:17'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Great! Thanks John. Your post made grought forth light from the darkness.
    Cheers.\r\n\r\nSo, how does a ccmp table get into a font? Does FLS encode it into
    the OTF upon generation? Is there a preference setting which handles this? Is
    it something one would drop into a TTXed file and then recompile?\r\n\r\nThanks
    for the clarification."
  created: '2006-01-28 16:17:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Chester: <em>So, how does a ccmp table get into a font? Does FLS encode it
    into the OTF upon generation? Is there a preference setting which handles this?
    Is it something one would drop into a TTXed file and then recompile?</em>\r\n\r\nccmp
    is an OTL feature, not a table. The spec is here:\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/features_ae.htm#ccmp\r\n\r\nIt
    seems to me that much of the content of a typical ccmp feature could be automated
    using Python. For instance, it should be easy to determine that a glyph called
    /Aringacute/ should be mapped from /A/ /ringcomb/ /acutecomb/."
  created: '2006-01-28 22:38:19'
date: '2006-01-25 05:36:35'
title: OpenType and Mac Word 2004

---
