---
author:
  name: Frank Jonen
  picture: 110089
body: "Attached is a screenshot of the recent Quark 7 Beta which display of type leaves
  Adobe in the dust. Quarks interface however remained in the late 1980's though.
  The only ray of light of it's interface is the multi pane window allowing for viewing
  master pages and their impact on the actual document pages, or multiple levels of
  zoom for your current page.\r\n\r\nLike Adobe, Quark failed with the font picker,
  engineer's laziness or dumb oversight call it what you want. In any sane application
  I just hit CMD + T and get the system font picker with all categories I set up.
  For example I create a folder in FontBook for each current job containing all the
  fonts for the job in question. In Adobe apps and Quark XPress I just get a mile
  long list, duh - how stupid can one be?! I just don't see the point in deactivating
  fonts - WAKE UP ADOBE, it's 2006!\r\n\r\nThat said, my layout application in the
  last few months was almost exclusively Apple Pages, to which I had to add a baseline
  grid \"feature\" to make it work for me. Only used InDesign for one deal where the
  template was in InDesign format already."
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Looks like they're using 'regular' antialaising, maybe with some clever filters
    -  that's a bit 1997 isn't it? ;-) Everyone else - Macromedia, Apple, Adobe, Microsoft
    abandoned that a while ago. \r\n"
  created: '2006-01-26 03:41:40'
- author:
    name: Frank Jonen
    picture: 110089
  body: "Weird, why does the alleged 1997 look better than Adobe's or Microsoft's
    font rendering.\r\nIt's not about how accurate each nibble of a glyph is reproduced
    when viewed at an 80% view but how pleasing it is to the eye.\r\n\r\nWith ClearType
    and CoolType I never fail to get an upset stomach when trying to read longer passages
    of text. Another reason why I got rid of the final Windows XP laptop here."
  created: '2006-01-26 04:16:02'
- author:
    name: Frank Jonen
    picture: 110089
  body: Just realized that it looks a lot like ATSUI text rendering. I set that up
    at my main machine to grayscale anti-aliasing as opposed to the rainbow-bride
    version.
  created: '2006-01-26 04:18:46'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Interesting that you like that anti-aliasing better. The outlines are much
    more crisp, but the edge of, say, the large lowercase e looks very oddly angular
    and not as round as I know Warnock Pro is. But \"de gustibus non disputandum est,\"
    as they say.\r\n\r\nWith regards to FontBook integration, I suspect the answer
    for both may be the same - \"why would we support a proprietary single-platform
    technology? We want to be able to get the same results on both major platforms.\"
    Certainly that would be my initial thought if somebody brought up the question
    internally. (BTW, why are you only angry at Adobe and not Quark on this point?
    Are your expectaions inherently lower for Quark or something?)\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    only ray of light of it\u2019s interface is the multi pane window allowing for
    viewing master pages and their impact on the actual document pages, or multiple
    levels of zoom for your current page.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's a fine feature. InDesign
    has had it for a while - not sure if it was new in CS2 last year, or how far back
    it goes. Just go to Window > Arrange > New Window.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-26 04:18:57'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Haven't we all come to expect less from Quark? :^P
  created: '2006-01-26 04:22:11'
- author:
    name: Guerella
    picture: 110740
  body: I know I have.
  created: '2006-01-26 04:28:38'
- author:
    name: Frank Jonen
    picture: 110089
  body: "\"Lowered Expectations\" is my dating agency for Quark ;)\r\n\r\nI'm angry
    about Adobe because I actually ditched Quark for InDesign.\r\n\r\nTo your comment
    \"why would we support a proprietary single-platform technology?\" Easy answer:
    So you don't stand out at the prime idiots on that platform. Every developer should
    live to the best they can on a platform, your comment would tell me that Adobe's
    a lazy company - maybe not that bad, but close. \r\n\r\nI mean do you really wear
    snow-boarding attire when going to surf?\r\n\r\nThe cascading windows feature
    of InDesign is more annoying than useful. I find the splitting of a window is
    nicer to the user as it cuts clutter and saves a few clicks.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-26 04:32:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Ok. I will ask a question and all myself to be laughed at. \r\n\r\nAbout
    the image Frank posted. If I were doing a lot of online reading I'd say this image
    looks great. I have times when my eyes refuse to continue reading because the
    type seems blurry to me. Isn't there a middle ground?"
  created: '2006-01-26 04:35:44'
- author:
    name: Frank Jonen
    picture: 110089
  body: "The best but very expensive approach would have been a Photofont with a custom
    size for each integer step from 5px to 72px. - Yeah right!\r\n\r\nBut if I was
    able to create an anti aliasing method in pixen (almost pixel by pixel) in 2 weeks
    to make Photofonts look great on screen, the smart heads as Apple, Adobe and Microsoft
    should be able too. Why they don't join forces in this is beyond me. Probably
    a pissing contest.\r\n\r\nThing is that it's not easy to do that for ALL fonts
    and currently the only 'global' anti aliasing method that really works is ATSUI
    and even that I'd consider as the lesser evil, we're not there yet. I should add
    that I read about 98% of my content on-screen. PDFs with Preview.app because Acrobat
    hurts my eyes.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-26 04:54:35'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "You really like this? It's just generic grayscale rendering, 1/4 pixel quantization
    on subpixel positioning, baseline integer aligned, no hinting, no gamma.\r\n\r\nSo
    at the small text sizes, you have some crisp and some fuzzy vertical stems, more
    or less randomly distributed. Most so-called advanced rendering techniques try
    pretty hard to at least get the vertical stems consistently sharp.\r\n\r\nOf course,
    plain and simple isn't always bad. The fancier techniques can indeed introduce
    visually displeasing effects. Could you post a comparable screenshot from CS2?
    My guess is that you simply dislike the color fringing from LCD subpixelling technology."
  created: '2006-01-26 06:10:39'
- author:
    name: Frank Jonen
    picture: 110089
  body: "Yes Raph I do like it. It's easy on the eyes and that's what counts for me.
    There is such a thing as \"too sharp\".\r\n\r\nCan't compare it to ancient CRT
    displays if you mean that. I do like stuff that doesn't wear my eyes out. On my
    eyes and ears I'm harsh to \"intruders\" as I only sport one pair of each.\r\n\r\nDidn't
    care to update to CS2 - not paying \u20AC1K for little more than a bugfix release.
    Currently looking for alternative apps to replace my CS suite, something that's
    faster, more stable and lets me work with deeper images (if I hate one thing more
    than fringed type it's banded color-transitions).\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-26 22:45:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "FYI: Here is a one-to-one comparison using 12pt. Minion Pro (125% view):\r\n\r\nInDesignCS:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/InDesignCS.png]\r\n\r\nInDesignCS2:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/InDesignCS2.png]\r\n\r\nQuarkXPress
    7:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/QuarkXPress7.png]\r\n\r\nPages:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Pages.png]"
  created: '2006-01-26 23:41:10'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "OK, Mark's provided all the evidence I need to feel like Quark 7's kicking
    InDesign CS2's patootie. At least on one front.\r\n\r\nIt's about time they caught
    on.\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-01-27 02:54:59'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: The Quark and Pages samples look very similar to me which leads me to believe
    that Quark is using the built-in OS X anti-aliasing. Adobe, of course, uses it's
    own thing. One of the things I wanted to show was how much better CS2 anti-aliasing
    is over CS1. The difference between CS2 and Quark/Pages is less dramatic but noticeable.
  created: '2006-01-27 05:34:57'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I analyzed these, and here are my results.\r\n\r\nThe Quark and Pages renderings
    are technically identical. The histogram of grayscales matches the native Quartz
    renderer, but I'm not knowledgeable enough to tell the difference between, say,
    ATSUI and CGContextShowText.\r\n\r\nCS2 looks like an updated version of the same
    renderer used for Type1 fonts in Acrobat 5 for Linux (you can see samples of that,
    as well as some others, <a href=\"http://levien.com/artofcode/fontfocus/compare.html\">here</a>).
    The histogram shows 16 peaks, suggesting a bitmap rendering at 4x the screen resolution,
    followed by a downsampling and a gamma of approximately 1.25. Since the rendering
    is darker than that of the Quartz renderer, I suspect that there is some thickening
    going on, either by using the any-part-of-pixel rule when drawing the 4x bitmap,
    or when hints are applied. Most characters have two instances, and you'll notice
    that typically either the left or right edge of a vertical stroke is aligned with
    the pixel grid. The result is slightly more consistent contrast on vertical strokes,
    but with only two subpixel instances to choose from, spacing is going to be a
    bit uneven.\r\n\r\nCS1 is a botch of some kind. It looks like running TrueType
    hinter and then applying subpixel offsets to try to even out the spacing. Why
    CS1 looks like TrueType and CS2 looks like Type1 is something of a mystery. Maybe
    there's some font substitution going on (the CS1 rendering is so distorted it's
    not easy to rule that out), or perhaps Adobe has ported their core rendering engine
    across both formats since the last time I looked at it carefully.\r\n\r\nIn any
    case, although Quark 7 kicks CS1's butt in the font rendering, I think it's only
    fair to compare it to CS2, in which case the difference is more a matter of personal
    taste. CS2's is a little more contrasty, but Quark/Pages definitely has smoother
    spacing.\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-27 06:32:40'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "Just for fun, I made a sample in FontFocus.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/c.png]\r\n\r\nBetter?
    Worse? None of this will matter when we all get our 200dpi displays."
  created: '2006-01-27 06:47:56'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "Of the four examples Mark shows, the CS2 looks the best to me. \r\n\r\nJames"
  created: '2006-01-27 14:35:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It looks sharper and lighter, but it looks a bit uneven in comparison. It
    could be that the higher contrast makes it easier to notice when it jumps from
    1 to 2 pixels or something.
  created: '2006-01-27 14:52:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Frank - it you switch to OSX's ClearType-like mode does XPress 7 change too?\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2006-01-27 14:58:16'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: It's on on my computer, but I notice that it is suppressed sometimes in graphics
    programs as you can see in the Quark and Pages samples. For example, the sub-pixel
    anti-aliasing is used in the UI text, but not in the text in the layout window.
  created: '2006-01-27 15:19:21'
- author:
    name: .
  body: I also wonder what effect the Font Smoothing settings in Mac OS X's System
    Preferences/Appearance might have on the output.
  created: '2006-01-27 17:10:36'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I have mine set "Medium - best for Flat Panel" which kicks in the ClearType-like
    mode.
  created: '2006-01-27 17:18:19'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Some apps, esp graphic apps, will ignore users settings and ask the OS for
    a specific rendering - that's likely what XPress 7 is doing. Other apps have their
    own font renderer and in my experience these tend to ignore the user's OS preferences
    and do their own thing or expose options in their own settigns menu.\r\n  "
  created: '2006-01-27 19:41:11'
- author:
    name: Frank Jonen
    picture: 110089
  body: Si - Can't test it anymore, like any app with a bad interface I deleted it
    meanwhile.
  created: '2006-01-28 00:20:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Quark rendering may seem 'easy on the eyes' when you look at a block of text,
    because it has a uniform greyness. But is there is one thing on which legibility
    experts agree -- and it may be the only thing --, it is that high contrast is
    the key to sustained readability. Put quite simply, there is a reason why books
    are printed in black ink not mid-grey ink, and a good reason why every single
    literate culture in the world has developed black pigments for use as the standard
    colour for text.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I don't think any of the rendering examples
    shown in this thread are even close to good enough for continuous onscreen reading.
    But then they're not really supposed to be (with the exception of Raph's FontFocus
    example?): they're preview text for page layout applications, and their purpose
    is to provide an <em>image</em> of the text in the context of layout. Given this
    goal, the best way to judge the type rendering is set beside the same applications'
    handling of image previews. When you look at a page of mixed text and image in
    a layout app, what matters most is that you have an accurate relative relationship,
    so you can make judgements about the whole design."
  created: '2006-01-28 02:51:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Dolores.gif]'
  created: '2006-01-28 03:06:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "For the sake of comparison, here is the same setting in ClearType with a
    quickly made TT version of Minion Pro. This is with FontLab autohinting, hence
    the problem with the collapsing dot above the i. This is ClearType rendering post-XP,
    with sub-pixel positioning. If your screen resolution is less than 145dpi this
    will look pretty large, and coloyr artifacts will be more noticeable than they
    are here. But then all the other examples look tiny on my screen (closer to 9pt
    than 12pt zoomed to 125%!).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CTSedmanga.gif]"
  created: '2006-01-28 03:37:30'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "And to complete the comparison, here is a zoom of the CT rendering in glorious
    technicolour. Note the consistent high contrast. This is beginning to look like
    text, not a picture of text.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/CTDolores.gif]"
  created: '2006-01-28 03:47:34'
- author:
    name: Frank Jonen
    picture: 110089
  body: "Thanx for the retinal burn!\r\n\r\nTo your earlier comment about Layout vs.
    Reading. Sometimes you have to read the text your setting. When using InDesign
    I usually export a PDF and open that in Preview to proof-read it.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    Is there a secret control panel where I can change CoolType to ATSUI in Adobe
    Reader and InDesign?"
  created: '2006-01-28 05:33:44'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "No, the only rendering available in Adobe Reader and InDesign is done by
    CoolType.\r\n\r\nYou can however turn on the LCD-enhanced mode (confusingly mislabeled
    \"CoolType\") in Adobe Reader if you like.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-01-29 01:28:49'
- author:
    name: Frank Jonen
    picture: 110089
  body: "That's really limiting. Marketing reasons?\r\n\r\non a not totally unrelated
    note -+- any news on CS3? The apps were always slow and hungry, but on the Intel
    Macs it's just a joke. "
  created: '2006-01-31 02:36:10'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "<em>Better? Worse? None of this will matter when we all get our 200dpi displays.</em>\r\n\r\nIf
    the questions aren't rhetorical, I'd say FontFocus makes Minion look like Times
    New Roman. <em>Somehow.</em>"
  created: '2006-01-31 19:16:42'
- author:
    name: Frank Jonen
    picture: 110089
  body: "Glad to hear that Adobe's finally on Xcode and gets help from Apple converting
    to Intel based Macs by September. Hope the suite gets a complete re-write, given
    the excessively long time span since the first kits were sent to developers this
    seems very likely.\r\n\r\n<strong>My general mini wish-list</strong>\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Make
    the apps more stable\r\n\t<ul>\r\n\t<li>Photoshop is a pain with images larger
    500MB</li>\r\n\t<li>Illustrator won't accept images pasted that don't come from
    Photoshop (how embarrassing)</li>\r\n\t<li>InDesign crashes when attempting a
    spellcheck (not just at my machines)</li>\r\n\t</ul></li>\r\n<li>Let ME choose
    how I want to read MY text. I'm the user, I paid YOU not vice versa. <em>If YOU
    pay ME for using your apps we can talk about it.</em></li>\r\n<li>All apps have
    to be faster, the current speed is not acceptable.</li>\r\n<li>A bathing suit
    for water and a thick jacket for ice. Make the apps their best on their native
    environment. How? Hire people, you're not charging the ridiculous prices for nothing.</li>\r\n<li>Leveraging
    platforms also enables a sane font menu and the use of CoreImage on the Mac and
    whatever they got on Windows.</li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nWonder if Adobe's still the
    arrogant company they used to be or if we're going to see some changes for the
    better. Looking forward 10 years and considering how more and more people work,
    their tech understanding and what they're willing to put up with the picture isn't
    very bright with the current mindset of this company.\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-03 04:37:52'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: Frank Jonen, your last comments are off topic and generally out-of-scope as
    far as Typophile discussion is concerned. If you are upset that Photoshop can't
    handle 500MB files, this is really the last place you should report your complaints
    to...
  created: '2006-02-03 07:43:58'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Since Frank started the thread and anything goes in General Discussions,
    your comment doesn't really seem fair.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-02-03 10:14:53'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Frank isn''t saying anything that hasn''t already been said in the Forums
    on Adobe''s site. '
  created: '2006-02-03 16:47:19'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "Okay Tiffany, you're right. That's why we have the different categories.
    \ \r\n:0)  Adobe Forums are probably a better place for this line of discussion
    though..."
  created: '2006-02-03 17:36:59'
- author:
    name: Frank Jonen
    picture: 110089
  body: If Adobe would read their forums people wouldn't post these lists all over
    the place. Apologies to <a href="http://typophile.com/user/9913">canderson</a>
    for speaking openly.
  created: '2006-02-04 00:28:28'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Roses are red, Violets are blue, Poinsettias are poisonous, And hard to read
    through.\r\n\r\nWelcome, Frank, to \"the 2%\" MS claims are not be able to \"see\"
    the emperors new fonts. Minion pro is (was) an oldstyle face isn't it? Not a modern...\r\n\r\n\"Better?
    Worse? None of this will matter when we all get our 200dpi displays.\" \r\nI love
    this fantasy. First of all you want 144-5, or 216-8. Second of all, you can be
    sure that 216 dpi will bring a new definition to \"small screen fonts\", down
    from 10-12 pt., to 6-9 pt. Third, you're talking about when ALL SCREENS, from
    phones and ipods, to work stations are 2-3 pixels-per-point, and that'll be the
    day...\r\n\r\n\"Let ME choose how I want to read MY text. I\u2019m the user, I
    paid YOU not vice versa. If YOU pay ME for using your apps we can talk about it.\"\r\n\r\nShame
    on you. Who do you think you are!? Choices like this are for people in \"highest
    common denominator\" environments, and you work in \"lowest common denominatorville.\""
  created: '2006-02-04 13:20:23'
- author:
    name: Frank Jonen
    picture: 110089
  body: "I think I'm a person that paid another person to get a product. If that product
    is crap I say so openly and encourage others to do the same. \r\n\r\nSo I need
    special fonts to make my content not look like crap on Windows, is that what you
    mean essentially? Interesting."
  created: '2006-02-05 02:21:19'
date: '2006-01-26 02:52:36'
title: Quark 7 surpasses Adobe with font rendering fails with interface

---
