---
author:
  name: dberlow
body: 'Does anyone know, is the OT feature unicase, referring to u.c. forms made to
  join the l.c., l.c. forms made to join the U.C. both. i.e. is it ambiguous? or what? '
comments:
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: According to <a href="http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/opentype/index_tag9.html#unic">the
    specification</a> it sounds like it's "a mixed set of lowercase and small capital
    forms", in the sense of Filosofia. U.C. made to join the l.c., from both U.C and
    l.c. text.
  created: '2006-01-27 18:23:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"U.C. made to join the l.c., from both U.C and l.c. text.\"\r\n?"
  created: '2006-01-27 19:46:02'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "I'll clarify what I meant, I take the specification to mean that the user
    should expect to be able to type in a case-insensitive manner and have everything
    remap to a single case...\r\n<code>sub [F f] by f.unic;</code>\r\n...where the
    .unic set of glyphs could be a mixed set of capital and lowercase drawings at
    the same height like Filosofia. Do you agree?"
  created: '2006-01-27 20:06:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The feature is deliberately ambiguous in this regard, David. Emigre requested
    the feature because they wanted it for the OT version of Filosofia. I think it
    can be legitimately interpreted in different ways, including making giant lowercase
    letters to mix with uppercase letters or, as in Filosofia, making small uppercase
    letters to mix with lowercase. There is also no reason why the result couldn't
    be something in between upper- and lowercase. The point of the feature is to remove
    the normal visual distinction of upper and lowercase and display text in a single
    case. I considered calling it the Uncial feature, but thought that made too strong
    a reference to particular historical styles.
  created: '2006-01-28 00:07:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The feature is deliberately ambiguous in this regard, David.\"\r\nThanks
    John. That was my first thought but I wanted to make sure. I'm going to put what
    I was calling \"biforms\" in there, actually \"uppercase biforms\", and be glad
    I don't have a second or third set, \"lowercase biforms\" or \"Smallcap biforms\"
    in this design. Otherwise...I don't know what I'd do...Does anyone?"
  created: '2006-01-29 13:20:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: If you had multiple unicase implementations in the same font, you would need
    to decide on one of them to be the default associated with the unicase feature,
    and then use the stylistic set features to access the others as variants of the
    first. In a situation like that, you would probably want redundant glyphs and
    perform a complete substitution of the entire alphabet to .unic variants, rather
    than only subsituting specific letters that change form in this feature, since
    you wouldn't want the stylistic set feature to be affecting random letters if
    applied to non-unicase text.
  created: '2006-01-29 20:41:42'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: 'Yep! choices must be made. It seems OT is settled on a default state of case
    that is lower. Is that you understanding? So, is the "case" feature also ambiguous? '
  created: '2006-01-30 13:13:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I think there probably is a presumption somewhere that lowercase text as
    the most frequent, is in some sense the default. But this presumption precedes
    OpenType. It is seen in all those old smallcap fonts with smallcap glyphs mapped
    to lowercase positions and not to uppercase positions. OpenType has actually corrected
    the presumption with regard to smallcaps, enabling them to be mapped to lowercase
    and to uppercase.\r\n\r\nI don't think the unicase feature contains such a presumption:
    the results of the feature should be the same regardless of what case of text
    it is applied to. The decision of whether the results of the unicase feature look
    more like lowercase, more like uppercase, or not predominantly like either, is
    an individual design decision.\r\n\r\nThe case feature on the other hand is not
    ambiguous at all, it is just poorly named. The description makes it clear that
    it presumes affected glyphs to be lowercase harmonising by default, and the feature
    substitutes uppercase harmonising forms and positioning."
  created: '2006-01-31 22:35:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: John, I'm sure u can can imagine this is confused. Most designs lack Small
    caps, some lack lowercase, no faces in my experience, with Latin, lack UC, and
    many display faces only have that one case.... You'd think, just from lookin'
    at the keyboard, not touching it, would give a clue, but I quess not ;) The font
    format, on the other paw, should be equally adept in any case. There outta be
    one feature (each) for lower case, upper case and small caps. (period)...
  created: '2006-02-04 13:38:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "you are so right david\r\nand such a system\r\nwith the lower case feature\r\nwould
    have the added benefit\r\nof being useful for hardcore modernists"
  created: '2006-02-04 17:28:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'm not sure what your point is, David.\r\n\r\nNick seems to be wanting a
    glyph substitution feature to display all characters as e.g. lowercase, regardless
    of how they are encoded. In the first place, this is unnecessary as InDesign's
    display-all-text-as-uppercase function demonstrates: this is something that can
    be done outside of font layout features using buffered character casing and referencing
    the cmap. In the second case, though, it is a really bad idea anyway, as the InDesign
    function also demonstrates. Like it or not, we have a bicameral alphabet in which
    case is semantically significant. If you display lowercase characters are uppercase
    glyphs or vice versa, you are just creating unnecessary text processing problems
    for yourself. I never use that InDesign function: if I want uppercase glyphs,
    I change the text case, which is just as easy to do and has the benefit of matching
    the text encoding to the text display. If you display lowercase characters as
    uppercase glyphs you have text strings in your document that look like all caps
    <em>but which will not be found in a case sensitive search for all caps.</em>
    In order to find them, you have to employ extra formatting sensitivity in your
    search, but then you miss actual all caps character sequences that do not share
    the same formatting as the fake all caps."
  created: '2006-02-05 00:42:45'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "In \"InDesign\u2019s display-all-text-as-uppercase function\", \"all text\"
    means what? 26 characters + whatever gsubs happen, don't it?\r\n\r\nThe point
    is not that \"\"the \"change Case\" sign\"\" only works on A-Z changing to and
    from a-z...the fact is that many fonts now aspire to, and some contain, a much
    broader crowd of case sensitive forms.\r\n\r\nI like the bicameral alphabet very,
    very much. I agree completely that case is semantically significant, (else I'd
    not argue for an upper default in OT fonts ;) violet goes pale, you see). \r\n\r\nCan
    I rest my...point?"
  created: '2006-02-05 16:24:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'm afraid I still don't get what your point is :)\r\n\r\nInDesign's display-all-text-as-uppercase
    function employs character case mapping without changing the backing string. So
    it should work for any character with straight casing behaviour. I say straight
    casing, because Adobe have not implemented Unicode Special Casing support, in
    this function or in the actual case changing function, so there are some lowercase
    characters that slip through the net -- as Nick found when working with polytonic
    Greek -- or which case correctly only for certain languages.\r\n\r\nI'm not sure
    what you mean by 'an upper default in OT fonts'. For the most part, there is no
    assumption of a default text state, and less of an assumption than there used
    to be in Type 1 smallcap and expert set fonts. I think the 'case' function is
    unique in presuming that the default forms and positioning for e.g. hyphen height
    is going to be for use with lowercase or mixed case text. But this seems to me
    a very fair presumption about the nature of most text. The fact that there are
    some fonts that only contain uppercase forms doesn't seem very relevant: these
    fonts would have appropriate forms and positioning for their design, and wouldn't
    need the 'case' feature at all. The majority of text is mixed case and within
    that the majority of consecutive character strings are lowercase. That is a reasonable
    basis for the default form and positioning for punctuation, symbols and, yes,
    numerals, in mixed case fonts being designed for use in such contexts."
  created: '2006-02-06 02:02:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ":)\"display-all-text-as-uppercase\" in indesign, is really \"display all
    alphabetics as uppercase alphabetics, (i.e. the same as \"shift\"). \" Display
    all text as uppercase\", I believe, is a different thing to users, and thus to
    type designers.\r\n\r\nThere are, 5 cases and a point to be made for a sixth to
    account for better composition with a particular foreign script (and esp). But
    the 5 cases we work with most of the time are upper, lower, small cap, infs. and
    sups. These are not ambiguously used, which is why they should not be ambiguously
    defined. It's sometimes confusing, because people work in narrow design spaces
    and don't think all the time about all the space.\r\n\r\nHere is a picture: Garamond
    is the best of the bad examples. If you choose \"lowercase\" in InDesign only
    the \"lowercase\",  are , figs are still \"too big\" Can You See?.  Next worst
    is Trajan, where the figures are not managed for the user as in Garamond, and
    \"lowercase\" it says,  but small caps they are, SEEEE?. Is this a good way to
    teach users? Zapfino shows the true metalheadedness of the situation. As the cases
    diverge in whatever direction the designer chooses, ht. & wt. being the most effective
    wedges , the characters we usually think of as appropriate for both, (multicase
    in FB terms), are stressed, and the need for case specific characters increases.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Case
    Studies.jpg]\r\n\r\nIs the OT ideal that the user needs to manage all of the case
    outside of A-Z and a-z with other feature tags, or are we trying to hElP? er.
    no. I think the expectation of users after all this time, is that they will have
    more power to more easily compose superb typography in a WIDE RANGE OF STYLES,
    without having to face menus like these... But don't worry, I'll fix it.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Menu(res).jpg]"
  created: '2006-02-10 17:40:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right.\r\n\"Small Caps\" should be accurately termed \"Caps with Small Caps\"
    to differentiate it from \"All Small Caps\".\r\n\r\n\"Strikethrough\" -- now isn't
    that useful!?"
  created: '2006-02-10 18:53:56'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Don't complain you lucky ones ... In the German version it was just \"Kapit\xE4lchen\"
    for <strong>both</strong> \"Small Caps\" and \"All Small Caps\"."
  created: '2006-02-10 19:47:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I also realize I did not answer \"I\u2019m not sure what you mean by \u2018an
    upper default in OT fonts\u2019\". John, really it's in a good Document, in a
    good environment, OT font or not, that the default case composition is set to
    \"mixed U&l.c.\", and so, the empty blinking cursor is thinkin' uppercase because
    that first letter composed should be Uppercase. It is not until another character
    is input that you know for sure it should be uppercase, but, as I hope is a point
    of no contention, it'll most likely remain uppercase regardless of what is typed
    next, or for the rest of the document. \r\n\r\nThis \"Uppercase Default\" is true
    from the beginning of composition (pre-type), and remains true even in digital
    squirt gun fights like these, I did not make it up, readers did, and All's I'm
    saying, is writers. By now. should have the tools to make this easy at even the
    zer0th common denominator level we strive so mightily to serve, (and I don't mean
    in the deadhead way some have mangled to work it out, where e.g. E.g. Happens
    because En(2)rage e.g. doesn't have an abreviational period and a solid set of
    tables on its head to play with. :) )\r\n\r\nTo do it right, I think we need a
    well organized and unambiguous series of case features, applications based on
    how people read and write, (not based on old fonts), and some other important
    parts too few to mention, as opposed to splitting up the user's perception of
    case into an idiot's paradise of menus. This is not to say, once again, the FB
    Inc. is not \"doing things right, even if we have to copy other people's mistakes\",
    because we're well practiced in this area of the type business, but we are taking
    precautions in case an intelligent forward-looking composition system can be made
    to work, and in the mean time we're using those precautions to make the \"right\"
    tables now. :)"
  created: '2006-02-10 22:38:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Okay, now I understand what you're getting at. Thanks for the examples.\r\n\r\nOn
    one hand, everything you've described could be handled at the UI level, largely
    independent of the font level implementation. This is why, for instance, Microsoft's
    XAML typographic features are not identical to the OpenType Layout features that
    they trigger, and a single UI feature might implement a collection of OTL features.
    [Which is not to say that I think the XAML feature structure is the best thing
    going, only that it is an example of the distinction between UI experience and
    underlying architecture.] Similarly, there is no reason why the 'convert to lowercase'
    function in an application couldn't apply the 'onum' OTL feature at the same time
    as converting character case.\r\n\r\nOf what you are typographically identifying
    as 'case' -- upper, lower, small cap, inferiors and superiors -- two are considered
    case for alphabetic characters from a text encoding perspective, and two different
    ones are considered case for numeric characters from a text encoding perspective.
    And that isn't going to change any time soon, if ever. So the question is what
    kind of architecture and what kind of UI should exist to handle a combination
    of character level processing and glyph level processing in such a way that the
    user only has to think about what he sees on the page/screen, not how it got there.\r\n\r\nRegarding
    architecture, the question is how, for example, to have oldstyle numerals, which
    are glyph variants, identified with lowercase text, which is a character class,
    and how to enable this in a design-specific -- i.e. font-specific -- way. And,
    at the same time, how not to lose the significant processing speed advantage of
    character level actions available for alphabetic case mapping. In other words,
    one wants to be able to say, within a font, 'The following glyphs are associated
    with lowercase text' without needing to rely on such a statement for glyphs that
    are already associated with lowercase text by virtue of their character mapping
    to lowercase character codes. Well, one way to do that is to create new font layout
    features or tables, in which such statements are made. But another way to do it
    is so take existing layout features, such as 'onum', and to say that this feature
    should be applied as part of text transformation functions triggered by the application
    UI."
  created: '2006-02-11 01:10:47'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "David Berlow wrote:\r\n<cite>This \u201CUppercase Default\u201D is true from
    the beginning of composition (pre-type) [...]</cite>\r\n\r\nI wonder if this is
    still the problem except for a few relicts -- default numerals, currency & mathematical
    symbols which are still \"uppercase\".\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson wrote:\r\n<cite>In other
    words, one wants to be able to say, within a font, \u2018The following glyphs
    are associated with lowercase text\u2019 without needing to rely on such a statement
    for glyphs [...] one way to do that is to create new font layout features or tables,
    in which such statements are made. But another way to do it is so take existing
    layout features, such as \u2018onum\u2019, and to say that this feature should
    be applied as part of text transformation functions triggered by the application
    UI.</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe it's rather a matter of conceiving things. Just consider
    oldstyle numerals as lowercase, and lining numerals as uppercase. And make oldstyle
    numerals default in your fonts. This would make numeral-related UC-to-LC text
    transformation obsolete.\r\n\r\nIt is banal: \"Normal\" text is made up of lowercase,
    with some uppercase here and there. \"Normal\" typing (no 'shift' &c) gets you
    lowercase. Uppercase ask for 'shift' or the 'All Caps' option ('case' which includes
    switching to lining numerals), and thus can be regarded as \"exceptions\" already.
    All caps, small caps, italics -- there's not much difference from a typographic
    point of view, they are to make text stand out from \"default\" lowercase setting.
    And if someone wants lining numerals in lowercase context too, this again has
    to be an active decision. Moreover, those who really want lining numerals everywhere
    could make it the default on application or OS level with future software.\r\n\r\nBut
    then, one could just turn the last suggestion around: It should be possible to
    set *any* numeral style, say 'onum', as default or preferred on application or
    OS level. That way it turns out irrelevant which numeral style is set as default
    in fonts.\r\n\r\nThe real problem is that a normal keyboard doesn't apply 'shift'
    the same way to numerals as it does to letters."
  created: '2006-02-11 11:19:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Tthere's some confusion of form with function.\r\n\r\nWhile it's OK to make
    a set of figures to go with lower case alphabetic characters, that doesn't mean
    they have to be oldstyle. For instance, I could make \"Scotch\" lining figures
    (three-quarter cap height) to go with lower case (and upper and lower case) settings
    -- but make a full-cap height set of lining figures to go with an all-cap setting.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    while it may make more logical sense to have the OT figures categorized according
    to the case they're intended to support, users are used to the conventions of
    oldstyle and lining."
  created: '2006-02-11 20:33:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The real problem is that a normal keyboard doesn\u2019t apply \u2018shift\u2019
    the same way to numerals as it does to letters.</em>\r\n\r\nThat is just a symptom
    of the underlying issue that I described: the alphabetic case distinction is a
    character-level distinction, while numeric 'case' distinction -- because usually
    thought of as a style distinction -- is a glyph level distinction. A keyboard
    is primarily a character input tool."
  created: '2006-02-12 02:50:38'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "John Hudson wrote:\r\n<cite>That is just a symptom of the underlying issue
    that I described:</cite>\r\n\r\nNow I understand your earlier text better by reading
    your comment on my one ...\r\n\r\nI just wonder if some of these things, say,
    automatic selection of the contextually appropriate numeral style on application
    level, are possible. If I have lowercase text, then for emphasis some uppercase
    words, followed punctuation marks, then figures, and again lowercase. Would a
    application be able to \"decide\" whether to put oldstyle (lowercase context)
    or lining (uppercase context) figures? And respect different typographic conventions,
    even ideosyncraties ...\r\nBut then, maybe it would help a bit if applications'
    'All Caps' were used instead of 'Caps Lock'. Or if 'Caps Lock' would evoke applications'
    'All Caps'. Then, automatism could be omitted.\r\n\r\nMaybe one has to apply a
    more radical view: uppercase-lowercase as a glyph-level distinction (like smallcaps-lowercase)
    which accidentally/historically was regarded as a character-level distinction.
    'Shift'+[any lowercase character]* then does nothing but apply 'All Caps' to a
    single lowercase character. And special unicode values for uppercase are a necessary
    evil, legacy, one has to live with. (Typographic point of view.)\r\n\r\n* I am
    writing on a Mac: 'Caps Lock' applied to numerals does *not* evoke punctuation
    marks. Which is a little step toward a change of the paradigm.\r\n\r\nNick Shinn
    wrote:\r\n<cite>While it\u2019s OK to make a set of figures to go with lower case
    alphabetic characters, that doesn\u2019t mean they have to be oldstyle.</cite>\r\n\r\nOf
    course. When applying this broader view (numerals for lowercase & uppercase context),
    a distinction of oldstyle & lining numerals is too narrow, too design centric
    -- as opposed to function centric. (Which becomes obvious when adding small caps
    figures ...)"
  created: '2006-02-12 06:28:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> users are used to the conventions of oldstyle and lining.\r\n\r\nI think
    this is true only of a small minority of users.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-12 07:50:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I think Nick's point is that if users are aware of a distinction in numeral
    style at all, then they are aware of it in terms of the convention of oldstyle
    and lining. The idea of 'lowercase and uppercase numerals' is so rare as not to
    be a convention at all.
  created: '2006-02-12 16:05:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Of what you are typographically identifying as \u2018case\u2019 \u2014
    upper, lower, small cap, inferiors and superiors \u2014 two are considered case
    for alphabetic characters from a text encoding perspective, and two different
    ones are considered case for numeric characters from a text encoding perspective.\"\r\n\r\n:)
    which, I guess in the Hudsonian universe leaves small caps as \"not a case\",
    which in turn begs the question of why you'd call lowercase characters drawn to
    Small Cap height, as Unicase...\r\n\r\nnow for a name for l.c. drawn to the ht.
    of the caps, I have \"fornicase\". Sound okay?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-18 12:28:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "In typography there are four formal categoric systems. \r\nThe first is abstract,
    and the other three are geometric, i.e. they concern the graphic qualities of
    shape, size, and position.\r\n\r\n1. Character Form. This creates the category
    of character.\r\n\r\n2. Variant Character Forms. This creates categories of majuscule/minuscule,
    and roman/italic. However, some characters (eg \"ess\": S,s,<em>S,s</em>) do not
    have variant forms, while others do (eg \"ay\": A,a,<em>a</em>).\r\n\r\n(Note
    that Unicode recognizes both majuscule, which it terms \"capital\" and minuscule,
    which it terms \"small\", but not italic variants. That's somewhat illogical.)\r\n\r\n3.
    Relative Size. This creates categories of Big (upper case) Medium (lower case,
    small caps), and Small (inferiors, superiors, numerators, denominators, ordinals)
    \r\n\r\n4. Relative y-axis Position. This creates categories of Baseline, Superior,
    and Inferior.\r\n\r\nIn practice, there are conventional groupings of character
    parameters from different categories, which exclude many combinations. So on the
    basic keyboard you get a default roman set of some Medium characters (eg s) with
    some variant Medium characters (eg a), and some Big characters (eg S) with some
    variant Big characters (eg A).\r\n\r\nIn theory, Unicase is not a question of
    Relative Size (3), because size is \"case\", and unicase means that there is one
    \"common\" case, and therefore no distinction based on size. So unicase is a question
    of what default set is chosen from the Variant Character Forms (2).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-02-21 22:37:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I guess in the Hudsonian universe leaves small caps as \u201Cnot
    a case\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nSmallcaps have (variable) significance in the display
    of text, but does this make them a case in the same sense that majuscules and
    miniscules are separate cases? I don't think so, because there are no spelling
    rules regarding them, no rules at all in fact, other than (variable) typographical
    style rules, about how and where they should be used. The Latin script is an evolved
    bicameral alphabet, and that is the basis for its encoding. We augment this bicameral
    alphabet with additional categories of letterforms for both aesthetic and functional
    purposes, but these categories do not constitute cases in the same way that uppercase
    and lowercase do. If you write a German noun with an initial lowercase letter,
    you have spelled it incorrectly. There is no parallel, orthographically required
    use of smallcaps, or italics, or sans serif. Any of these categories of letterform
    might be used in a articulatory way, to make clearer the meaning of a text, but
    they are not cases in the orthographic sense. We might decide to refer to them
    as cases, but they are 'typographic cases', not orthographic cases.\r\n\r\nNick:
    <em>(Note that Unicode recognizes both majuscule, which it terms \u201Ccapital\u201D
    and minuscule, which it terms \u201Csmall\u201D, but not italic variants. That\u2019s
    somewhat illogical.)</em>\r\n\r\nNo it isn't. If it looks illogical in terms of
    your categorisation, then that should alert you that there is something wrong
    with your categorisation. Orthographically there is no distinction between this
    and <em>this</em>; ergo, there is no encoding distinction.\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-22 19:31:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm with John on this one.\r\nSmallcaps, italics, etc. are not cases.\r\nAnd
    they certainly don't \"deserve\" encodings!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-22 20:19:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Orthographically there is no distinction between this and this; ergo,
    there is no encoding distinction.</em>\r\n\r\nI think I've disproved your statement,
    by copying and pasting the text!\r\n\r\nBut seriously, orthographic logic is not
    the same as typographic logic, which is why we are having this discussion."
  created: '2006-02-23 00:58:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> orthographic logic is not the same as typographic logic\r\n\r\nCertainly.\r\nBut
    the latter, unlike the former, is not \"codified\", it's not standardized (for
    example people disagree about how best to use italics) and there's no way to encode
    anything that mushy. So you could say that logic and formalism are as different
    as typography and orthography!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-23 02:13:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But seriously, orthographic logic is not the same as typographic logic,
    which is why we are having this discussion.</em>\r\n\r\nRight, but digital typography
    sits on top of a framework of digital text processing. Unlike bits of lead, digital
    characters have semantic properties. Text processing and display is multilevel
    processing: there are the individual encoded characters with their standard properties
    (e.g. directionality, case folding, canonical composition/decomposition); there
    are strings of these characters with string level properties (e.g. bidirectional
    layout); at this level we're still dealing with what is defined as 'plain text';
    then there is the first level of display, the direct mapping of characters to
    default glyphs; then we have what Unicode calls 'higher level protocols' that
    look after basic rendering requirements beyond straight character-to-glyph mapping
    (e.g. language shaping for complex scripts, a mix of font and shaping engine responsibilities
    depending on the technology employed); and finally one gets to the relatively
    thin layer of typographic refinement that sits on top of the rest of the structure.
    So however one determines things should be considered in typographic logic, practically
    one has to consider how these are to be implemented on top of a text processing
    architecture that begins with a structural model of how individual scripts work
    at the plain text level."
  created: '2006-02-23 07:01:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I think I\u2019ve disproved your statement, by copying and pasting the
    text!</em>\r\n\r\nActually, you've proved my statement: plain text copying and
    pasting removed the typographic distinction between roman and italic but, of course,
    retained the case distinctions between capitals and lowercase letters."
  created: '2006-02-23 07:03:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>...you\u2019ve proved my statement...</em>\r\n\r\nActually, copying and
    pasting removed the semantic significance which you had encoded by italicization,
    proving that in some instances italics can have orthographic value.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\n<em>the
    relatively thin layer of typographic refinement that sits on top of the rest of
    the structure.</em>\r\n\r\nAdmittedly, this way of arranging things works far
    better than what we had before, when it was the other way up. However, I think
    writing/typography is more fundamental than a veneer. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Anomaly.png]\r\nCased
    unicase!?\r\nThe issue of unicase highlights the problem the orthographic system
    has with casing. Casing is convention, enshrined as standard, but from a typographic
    perspective it's inconsistent to define upper and lower case as separate characters.
    The German noun convention, the proper name convention, the first letter of the
    sentence convention, these are all examples of Titlecase, and departing from the
    convention is not mis-spelling, but mis-casing. Of course, such casing should
    be kept in the basic document (ie orthographic), but it begs the question of whether
    Case is a quality of text or layout. Unicode says that case is a text thing; typographically,
    it's not.\r\n\r\nKeyboards recognize that A and a are not different characters,
    by only having one set of keys, modified by the shift key. And all but the most
    basic of word processors recognize the inadequacy of having the same \"letter\"
    as different characters for upper and lower case, by making the connection between
    41 and 61. A and a, etc.\r\n \r\nAccording to the 4-level typographic system I
    outlined above, these could be coded \r\n1111: 1 (first character) 1 (majuscule)
    1 (big size) 1 (baseline), and \r\n1221: 1 (first character) 2 (minuscule) 2 (medium
    size) 1 (baseline). \r\n\r\nIn practice, we already have the .unic OpenType feature,
    which, as has been observed, is non size-specific. A .forc feature is unlikely."
  created: '2006-02-23 20:13:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Actually, copying and pasting removed the semantic significance which
    you had encoded by italicization, proving that in some instances italics can have
    orthographic value.</em>\r\n\r\nNo, that is not orthographic. The semantic significance
    of italics is what I call articulatory. Orthographic implies something on the
    level of spelling. My point was that there is no difference, orthographically
    and hence in terms of text encoding, between roman and italic setting of the same
    word. The spelling is the same, the character string is the same, and so far as
    plain text operations are concerned they are identical. If Typophile enabled rich
    text copy/paste, then the italic styling would have been preserved when you copied
    and pasted my text. But italic styling is mark-up above the text encoding level.\r\n\r\n<em>Keyboards
    recognize that A and a are not different characters, by only having one set of
    keys, modified by the shift key.</em>\r\n\r\nA shift key isn't modifying the input
    from a key, it is accessing a totally different input. In a bicameral alphabet,
    the shift key typically switches between cases, with the upper and lowercase characters
    associated with the same key in different shift states. But as soon as you start
    keyboarding non-bicameral scripts you learn to think of the shift key in a completely
    different way. On my Hebrew keyboard, for instance, the shift state of a key accesses
    characters that have no notional relationship to the characters accessed by the
    non-shift state. This keyboard contains four states, with up to four characters
    associated with a single key, none of them notionally related to one another.\r\n\r\n<em>And
    all but the most basic of word processors recognize the inadequacy of having the
    same \u201Cletter\u201D as different characters for upper and lower case, by making
    the connection between 41 and 61. A and a, etc.</em>\r\n\r\nInadequacy? It is
    hardly inadequate if the particular text processing function you are trying to
    perform relies on case matching. By treating upper and lowercase letters as separate
    characters, but defining their relationship as a property of the characters, you
    get the best of both worlds, and you get it in a way that is very quick and easy
    to process and which corresponds to conventional use of the script as a bicameral
    writing system. If casing were handled as a higher level protocol like, e.g. italics
    styling, there would effectively be no such thing as plain text processing for
    the Latin script. Almost every text processing operation would have to be handled
    as rich text, because almost every operation is applied to bicameral text: that
    has been the normal way to write the script for many centuries, and almost all
    text one encounters includes both upper and lowercase letters. Far from being
    inadequate, encoding upper and lowercase letters as separate characters is highly
    sensible.\r\n\r\nUnicase does not 'highlight the problem the orthographic system
    has with casing'. Unicase presents anomalistic problems in text encoding and display.
    It is precisely because they are anomalies that they are problematic and are not
    obviously addressed by casing technologies designed to handle normal text.\r\n\r\nAnomalies
    are sometimes important, but they shouldn't be taken as benchmarks of encoding
    technologies, precisely because they are anomalies, they're not normal. I'm very
    aware of the importance of textual anomalies because I work with scholars who
    are studying and transcribing pre-standard texts, documenting textual ambiguities,
    recording scribal errors. At the Unicode conference next month, I'll be discussing
    the problems of addressing textual anomalies in the context of encoding standards
    designed around normal -- i.e. standardised, majority convention -- language processing.
    Even addressing the textual anomalies of a single well-documented text, the Leningrad
    Codex of the Hebrew Bible, has taken almost three years to pass through the international
    standards process. Yesterday, I received a copy of Emmanual Tov's <em>Scribal
    practices and approaches reflected in the texts found in the Judean desert,</em>
    which contains tables of symbols found in the Dead Sea Scroll fragments, most
    of which are not encoded in Unicode yet. The very identity of some of these symbols
    is unknown or ambiguous, so how does one encode them. Similar complex situations
    pertain to other ancient texts. The encoding of Vedic marks for Sanskrit has been
    stalled for several years now because the same visual mark may be used to signify
    different characters in different texts, or the same character may be signified
    by a different marks in different texts, and no one has yet been able to thoroughly
    document the usage in a way that would enable to useful encoding. Early Arabic
    texts, including the earliest Qur'an fragments, are written in an archigraphemic
    script without the dots of later Arabic that distinguish different letters. To
    encode these texts using standard Arabic characters is to make assumptions about
    the identity of the letters that are not explicit in the texts themselves. So,
    yes, anomalies are sometimes important and we need to be able to handle them within
    a text encoding and display architecture that is designed around presumptions
    of normal text, but the importance of anomalies is primarily found in textual
    analysis operations -- e.g. comparison of multiple texts in an electronic corpus
    --, not to things like cased unicase display typography."
  created: '2006-02-24 02:13:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The semantic significance of italics is what I call articulatory. </em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    so is Titlecase. Your argument that titlecase is like spelling is a justification
    for assigning casing to plain text. But common sense says that there are some
    26 letters in the alphabet, and words are spelled the same way whether in upper,
    lower, or mixed case.\r\n\r\n<em>...as soon as you start keyboarding non-bicameral
    scripts you learn to think of the shift key in a completely different way.</em>\r\n\r\nWell
    of course! Bicameral means that the same character has two components, not that
    two (or more) separate characters have been arbitrarily associated.\r\n\r\n<em>Almost
    every text processing operation would have to be handled as rich text,</em>\r\n\r\nNow
    that sounds like progress!\r\nAssigning casing to plain text is a bit of a cheat,
    to facilitate basic encoding.\r\n\r\n<em>the importance of anomalies is primarily
    found in textual analysis operations ... not to things like cased unicase display
    typography.</em>\r\n\r\nEunoia is perfectly logical, and only an anomaly in terms
    of standard practice. (Which may explain why only a handful of people have licensed
    the font!) I don't really consider it display typography -- it's more of a theoretical
    experiment. "
  created: '2006-02-24 06:46:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Eunoia is perfectly logical\r\n\r\nJust like Van Gogh's ear.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-24 07:16:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'If unicase and small caps are accepted practices, and people understand the
    logic behind them, then a "cased unicase" font is equally logical -- and Eunoia
    Unicase adheres strictly to both the unicase and the small cap conventions; there
    is nothing mutually exclusive that screws up the combination. The fact that the
    term sounds contradictory is the fault of the terms, not the typographic logic. '
  created: '2006-02-24 15:41:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If unicase and small caps are accepted practices,\r\n> and people understand
    the logic behind them\r\n\r\nBut they're not, and they don't. Not even plain old\r\nitalics
    enjoys that. Unicase in particular is looked\r\nupon by many people (including
    readers) as a bad joke.\r\n\r\nAnd again: even if they are, their usage is still\r\nnot
    codified (or probably even codifiable) so no\r\nencoding is possible.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-24 15:54:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There is a unicase OpenType feature tag.\r\nAll that's lacking is for it
    to be supported by a layout application."
  created: '2006-02-24 16:28:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Your argument that titlecase is like spelling is a justification for
    assigning casing to plain text. But common sense says that there are some 26 letters
    in the alphabet, and words are spelled the same way whether in upper, lower, or
    mixed case.</em>\r\n\r\nMy specific example was German nouns, in which capitalisation
    is not optional and an initial lowercase letter constitutes something like a spelling
    error. The fact is that uppercase letters have grammatical function in a way that
    italic styling, the presence or absence of ligatures, the use of smallcaps, etc.
    do not. We expect a grammar checker to pick up on whether the first letter of
    the first word of a new sentence is a capital, but we don't expect it to pick
    up on whether that word is set in italics. This is the common sense way in which
    we <em>use</em> our bicameral alphabet.\r\n\r\n<em>Bicameral means that the same
    character has two components, not that two (or more) separate characters have
    been arbitrarily associated.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's begging the question to describe
    them as 'the same character'. They are the same <em>letter,</em> but that is not
    the whole basis on which a decision is made regarding how they should be encoded.
    We must consider how they are used, what kind of functions we expect to be able
    to perform with encoded text, how best to facilitate those functions. Describing
    something as a 'cheat' because it 'facilitates basic encoding' seems to me perverse
    when the goal is basic encoding. It's like saying that kicking the ball in the
    direction of the goal is cheating at soccer."
  created: '2006-02-24 20:08:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Describing something as a \u2018cheat\u2019 because it \u2018facilitates
    basic encoding\u2019 seems to me perverse when the goal is basic encoding.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    problem is that Titlecase, while it is basic to encoding, and arguably to grammar,
    is a layout feature. Unicode gets around this by pretending that majuscule and
    minuscule versions of the same letter are different characters, making basic encoding
    possible without resorting to the higher level of layout features. Sure, it may
    get the ball in the goal, but so can handball, and that's a foul.\r\n\r\nIn terms
    of grammar, Titlecase is a form of Inflection. Whereas most inflection signifies
    a grammatical feature by altering the spelling of a word, Titlecase does so by
    capitalizing the initial letter.  \r\n\r\nThe result of the \"cheating\", which
    applies case selectively only to letters, and through \"characterization\", as
    David Berlow has so astutely pointed out, is that the typographic casing of non
    A-Z characters is left up in the air: <em>\"Is the OT ideal that the user needs
    to manage all of the case outside of A-Z and a-z with other feature tags? ...an
    idiot's paradise of menus\". </em>  \r\n\r\nAs Karsten has noted, ideally the
    shift key should activate the Case feature. The way it is now, letters keyed as
    all-caps by using the shift key (or shift-lock), will not automatically display
    the appropriate \"case\" of accompanying glyphs, such as figures and punctuation
    -- unless the \"all caps\" button is pushed for text which is <em>already</em>
    in all caps; from the user's perspective, that's absurd. \r\n\r\nSo the Unicode
    system is not perfect. But funnily enough, I don't think that's necessarily bad
    for good typography. Perfection is hard to come by. OpenType is a powerful tool,
    and if some expertise is required from typographers to realize all its benefits,
    then it becomes a focus of interest. If typographers have to think about which
    figures go with which case, and make a decision, that's good for typography, rather
    than just having the standard kick in automatically. Nonetheless, there's a lot
    of room for improvement in the OT menus.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-25 04:55:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Unicode gets around this by pretending majuscule and minuscule\r\n> versions
    of the same letter are different characters\r\n\r\nPretending? That's exactly
    what they are: two different characters representing the same letter, each one
    used depending on certain grammatical rules. The fact that non-alphabetic characters
    don't have other-case counterparts is just a complexity we have to live it; it
    doesn't make Unicode's handling of UC/lc incorrect. And typographic distinctions
    are completely moot to this point; because they are not formal, codified rules
    - they're more like personal preferences.\r\n\r\nThink for example of so-called
    \"upright italics\", which aren't\r\nreally italics at all (because they're functionally
    not) but too\r\nmany type people claim they are.\r\n\r\n> the typographic casing
    of non A-Z characters is left up in the air\r\n\r\nThat's a different problem.
    As is the observation that\r\nthere's room for improvement (although there always
    is,\r\neven in something like the basic alphabetic structures).\r\n\r\nMy own
    main point (a minor one, I admit, in this broad thread) is that you cannot -and
    should not- encode things like smallcaps and italics the way you encode formal
    grammatical distinctions, at least not at such a base level as Unicode. Also,
    unicase is not a formal grammatical distinction (thank god).\r\n\r\n> the Unicode
    system is not perfect\r\n\r\nTrue.\r\nVerily, only Eunoia's unicase logic is so.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-25 05:16:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> two different characters representing the same letter, each one used
    depending on certain grammatical rules.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's self-fulfilling. Just
    because grammar determines their usage doesn't make them different characters.This
    is apparent with those characters which have an identical form in both cases,
    CcOoSsUuVvWwXxZz in Latin. That's the fundamental way casing works, it's the same
    character in two different sizes. The complexity we have to live with is that
    in many instances the character has a different form as well as size.\r\nAs I
    said, Titlecase is a grammatical indicator that works by changing case (a typographic
    quality), not by changing character, i.e. spelling (a linguistic quality).\r\n\r\n<em>The
    fact that non-alphabetic characters don\u2019t have other-case counterparts is
    just a complexity we have to live it; it doesn\u2019t make Unicode\u2019s handling
    of UC/lc incorrect.</em>\r\n\r\nThe correct casing of characters, both alphabetic
    and non-alphabetic, is an important part of typography. Beyond typography-lite,
    Unicode's handling of case poses difficulties; it's incorrect because it's simplistic.
    Rather like what happened with faux-italic, -small caps, and -bold.  \r\n\r\nUnicode
    would accomodate expert typography better if it encoded casing for all characters
    -- not just those which are grammatically meaningful. That would be something
    like feature tags for the five cases: Caps, Lower case, Small caps, Superior,
    and Inferior. \r\n\r\nThe idea that \"oh that's just fancy typography, the icing
    on the cake, so it doesn't matter\" is at the root of the way Unicode handles
    case. "
  created: '2006-02-25 07:00:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s the same character in two different sizes\r\n\r\nNo, I don't
    think size is it at all. The essential useful difference\r\nbetween UC and lc
    is that they're used grammatically differently.\r\nThe size, forms, etc. are all
    on a different level of usefulness. Maybe\r\na more useful level to an art director,
    but clearly not to most people.\r\n\r\nAlso, by seeing uppercase letters that
    are structurally different than their lowercase counterparts as somehow flawed,
    you're making the same mistake as Thompson: vying for destructive simplification.\r\n\r\n>
    The correct casing of characters, both alphabetic and\r\n> non-alphabetic, is
    an important part of typography.\r\n\r\nNot really. It's more of an important
    part of orthography, and [the casing aspect of] typography just follows that.
    I'm getting the feeling that perhaps you'd like people to see unicase as a typographic
    scheme as valid as traditional mixed-case, and you realize that can only happen
    by simply ignoring [that aspect of] grammar, so you're advocating classing typographic
    refinement above basic encoding? If so, I'm sure that won't work.\r\n\r\n> Unicode
    would accomodate expert typography\r\n> better if it encoded casing for all characters
    \r\n\r\nNo, it would become a mess. Repeat: those are not properly encodable.\r\nThe
    decisions made would be \"incorrect\" to various segments of users.\r\nLike try
    to define what an \"italic\" is, and you won't hear the end of\r\nit from me.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nWhat you're talking about isn't useless, quite the contrary; but
    that's not the point of unicode, and it shouldn't be. Furthermore: what unicode
    tries to do is in fact more important, simply because it's more fundamental; billions
    of people have trouble typing their scripts into computers - they're quite far
    from worrying about smallcaps and such - not that the most technologically advanced
    cultures really worry about smallcaps either anyway...  :-/\r\n\r\nSeeing this
    distinction is critcally important - it has nothing to do with \"fancy\" or dumb
    - but with the useful layers of how humans process textual information.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-25 15:20:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>by seeing uppercase letters that are structurally different than their
    lowercase counterparts as somehow flawed </em>\r\n\r\nI didn't say that, I don't
    see that. The minimum requirement for upper vs. lower casing to be grammatically
    significant is size. The fact that there are many characters where the glyph shapes
    are different for the different cases is therefore grammatically redundant. Which
    isn't to say it's a flaw, it's a complexity (to use your term), and probably serves
    some other purpose. \r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019m getting the feeling that perhaps you\u2019d
    like people to see unicase as a typographic scheme as valid as traditional mixed-case,
    </em>\r\n\r\nHrant, it's 2006. Go change some diapers. Stop projecting your feelings
    onto me and address what I say. Note that in my last post I mentioned five typographic
    cases, and unicase wasn't one of them.\r\n\r\n<em>Repeat: those [expert typographic
    cases] are not properly encodable. The decisions made would be \u201Cincorrect\u201D
    to various segments of users.</em>\r\n\r\nStandards are negotiated. OpenType feature
    tags are agreed-upon encodings.  Typographers need sophisticated layout applications
    to work efficiently -- at the moment their menus are all over the place -- and
    it would be a lot easier for application developers to do their part if the five
    kinds of casing were encoded. The premise of Unicode is to encode only that which
    is grammatically significant. \r\n\r\n<em>simply because it\u2019s more fundamental;</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    so. Coded text can't exist without typography.\r\n\r\nThere's no reason to blow
    off typography as the icing on the cake. The system should work for everbody --
    art directors using small caps are no less important than ancient linguists studying
    dead languages. \r\n\r\nSmall caps are an integral part of the world system --
    Microsoft's commitment in the ClearType fonts will see to that: small caps for
    Latin, Greek and Cyrillic; Regular, Bold, and Italic!"
  created: '2006-02-25 20:45:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "(Nick, I hope you weren't counting\r\non soiled diapers to save your ideas\r\nfrom
    being trounced. :-)\r\n \r\n> The minimum requirement for upper vs. lower\r\n>
    casing to be grammatically significant is size.\r\n\r\nIf that were true (beyond
    the banal absolutist/formalist\r\nsphere) guess what wouldn't work in practice:
    smallcaps!  :-)\r\n\r\n> grammatically redundant\r\n\r\nIt's ironic that you suddenly
    seem to be missing\r\nwhat makes it not redundant in the end: typography!\r\n\r\n>
    Stop projecting your feelings onto me\r\n\r\nFeelings? \"I'm getting no reading,
    captain.\"\r\nWhat I'm doing is trying to figure out where somebody is going based\r\npartly
    on where he's coming from. In my book that's a smart thing.\r\n\r\nAnd nevermind
    that I used \"perhaps\", and a question mark.\r\nAfter all, it's much harder to
    feel/act offended while noting tentativeness.\r\n\r\n> The premise of Unicode
    is to encode only\r\n> that which is grammatically significant.\r\n\r\nI would
    friggin hope so, is my whole point.\r\n\r\n> Coded text can\u2019t exist without
    typography.\r\n\r\nSure. But it CAN exist without smallcaps, italics, etc.\r\nWhat
    it can't exist without (without changing the language)\r\nis alphabetic casing.
    Why is this distinction so hard to accept?\r\n\r\n> There\u2019s no reason to
    blow off typography as the icing on the cake.\r\n\r\nI agree - and I never do
    that. But seeing the difference\r\nbetween orthography and typography, and accepting
    that the\r\nformer can't simply be ignored, is still crucial.\r\n\r\n> The system
    should work for everbody \u2014 art directors using small\r\n> caps  are no less
    important than ancient linguists studying dead\r\n> languages.\r\n\r\n1) No system
    can do that. Fortunately.\r\n2) Some occupations are still more important to the
    world at large than others. Your example of those who study dead languages is
    a convenient extreme.\r\n\r\n> Small caps are an integral part of the world system\r\n\r\nNot
    even close.\r\nNot even italics is.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-25 22:33:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The premise of Unicode is to encode only that which is grammatically
    significant.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think it is a premise, per se, but it is often
    the way it works out for a particular script. Unicode is guided by a number of
    <em>conflicting</em> principles, and in given situations one or more of these
    principles will trump others. For example, the principle of one-to-one compatibility
    with pre-existing standards has always trumped the character/glyph distinction
    principle. But Unicode precedes from a notion of 'plain text', which is defined
    as <em>'Computer-encoded text that consists only of a sequence of code points
    from a given standard, with no other formatting or structural information. Plain
    text interchange is commonly used between computer systems that do not share higher-level
    protocols.'</em> Unicode encodes as characters that which is necessary to encode
    plain text, and one way of looking at this is to determine what is an acceptable
    loss of information when richly formatted text is interchanged as plain text between
    systems that do not share higher-level protocols. So the question is, is it acceptable
    to lose the distinction between upper and lowercase letters in Latin plain text?
    I would say no.\r\n\r\nPositing a 'grammatical' premise for Unicode is innacurate.
    Indeed, a criticism of the Unicode encoding of some scripts is that it does not
    correspond to how users think of their script in grammatical terms, or may reflect
    only one of a number of competing grammatological analyses of the writing system.
    The Tamil script is an interesting and controversial example. The Unicode encoding
    is based on the ISCII encoding (an example of the pre-existing standard principle),
    which treats Tamil in a way directly analogous to the North Indian Brahmic model.
    Some Tamils complain bitterly about this, pointing to the existence of a very
    ancient Tamil grammar that explicitly describes the structure of the script in
    ways that do not neatly correspond to the Unicode/ISCII encoding. This debate
    takes place against a political and cultural struggle. But the question that needs
    to be asked is whether an encoding <em>needs</em> to correspond to a grammatological
    analysis of a writing system? Isn't it enough that the encoding <em>works</em>
    and, indeed, shouldn't the practical considerations of computer text processing
    be the guiding principle of a computer text encoding standard? So the UTC and
    WG2 committees look at writing systems and made decisions about how to apportion
    handling between plain text operations and higher level protocols.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    idea that \u201Coh that\u2019s just fancy typography, the icing on the cake, so
    it doesn\u2019t matter\u201D is at the root of the way Unicode handles case.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    disagree. I don't know anyone at Unicode who dismisses typographic display in
    this way: they just insist that it sits above the plain text level at which they
    encode characters. And they're right. It is not their job to enable rich typography
    at the text encoding level. It is the job of systems and applications to enable
    rich typography at the higher level. As discussed much earlier in this thread,
    and as alluded to in your recent mention of menus being 'all over the place',
    the problems you are describing are essentially user-interface issues. Sure, you
    can say that it would be easier for applications to solve these user interface
    issues if all five of the typographic cases you identify were encoded at the character
    level, but what other text processing functions would become more complicated
    if one did this? One shouldn't build a text encoding standard around user-interface
    ease of design. That's putting the cart well before the horse.\r\n\r\nIn any case,
    this is a very moot point, because there is no way that Unicode's handling of
    casing for the Latin script is going to change. This is the architecture we have
    to work with, and the level at which we should be addressing it is in UI design
    and UI function interaction with font layout features."
  created: '2006-02-26 01:00:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The system should work for everbody \u2014 art directors using small
    caps are no less important than ancient linguists studying dead languages.</em>\r\n\r\nTrust
    me, the system currently works a heck of a lot better for art directors using
    smallcaps than for scholars studying ancient texts. Again, what we're talking
    about for the former is essentially a user interface issue: how to present typographic
    controls in ways that make intuitive sense to a typographer. Further, the needs
    of the art director are typically quite simple: he needs an individual piece of
    text to look a particular way, often without needing to worry about the underlying
    text encoding at all because the result is to be output in a static medium."
  created: '2006-02-27 03:06:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>seeing the difference between orthography and typography</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    would be nice, but they overlap.\r\nUnicode ignores the overlap by encoding capitals
    as separate characters, not by case.\r\nSo higher level protocols are left to
    hack the connections between A and a, etc., in order to perform functions like
    \"all caps\". \r\n\"All caps\" is rich-text typography, but it's as basic to the
    standard WP software, MS Word, as holding down the shift key on a typewriter --
    not exactly art-director stuff.\r\n\r\n<em>I don\u2019t know anyone at Unicode
    who dismisses typographic display in this way: they just insist that it sits above
    the plain text level at which they encode characters. </em>\r\n\r\nSorry for the
    colourful figure of speech, but I suspect that the subtleties of expert typography
    may be perceived as a bit precious, hence the reluctance to incorporate a display
    function like casing.\r\n\r\nYes, this is all very moot.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-27 07:12:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> higher level protocols are left to hack the connections between A and a\r\n\r\nYes,
    but certainly not \"hack\".\r\nIn fact the main benefit of unicode is greatly
    reducing hacks.\r\n\r\n> the subtleties of expert typography may be perceived
    as a bit precious\r\n\r\nWhich, of course, they are.\r\nWe're simply not very
    useful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-27 14:55:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hey, Unicode is awesome.\r\nComplex typography is, er, complex -- as always.\r\nBut
    in general, it's all good."
  created: '2006-02-27 19:53:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "All's I know, is that I have over 100 styles either in flight, on the flight
    deck or ready to move into the elevator, that have been ordered by customers.
    What customers want in these styles are a, e, m, n, and u, and sometimes t and
    r, drawn to the size of the H, accented to the t, and kerned to all high heaven.
    (No one, has ever asked for e the size of small cap E, or H the size of x...ever,
    but maybe it's because my customers are...justifiably valued). I've done some
    tests though, drawing and sending various forms, and what they are looking for
    is a special case to use for headlines, not l.c. or small caps, ever. You are
    the boss:\r\na. go to the end of the line and start registering ucbf, uppercase
    biforms.\r\n        use something else in the meantime (?), and then wait for
    updates to \r\n        ID that may or may not ever hardwire ucbf to show users
    \"uppercase \r\n        biforms\", scramble and explain until complete, or denied.\r\nb.
    send clients feature named  something generic, like special style feature #1556,
    explain endlessly, because changing would be messy.\r\nc. appropriate the \"Unicase\"
    feature to a useful task. Non-ambiguously state to customers and other vendors
    that neither you nor your users will see anything but lowercase forms drawn to
    the size of the H when this feature is selected.\r\n\r\nBut the general feeling
    is, if this was implemented better in one of several ways it's be a lot less stupid
    a set of choices. If e.g. Features had tags and menu names, and apps just passed
    'em through, and the market made the features market, not some clumsy bucket line,
    absolutely everyone would be happier. "
  created: '2006-02-28 14:32:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>If e.g. Features had tags and menu names, and apps just passed \u2018em
    through, and the market made the features market, not some clumsy bucket line,
    absolutely everyone would be happier.</em>\r\n\r\nExcept the application designers,
    who can't resist adding faux features, which is probably why they are reluctant
    to just let the fonts be, and let users only get what's in the font.\r\n\r\nThat
    might have been a good idea for PC Word users when fonts only had 250 characters,
    and there were hardly any digital fonts with expert sets, but the situation is
    different now.\r\n\r\nWould there be an outcry from InDesign users if the next
    version didn't enable them to create, for instance, superior figures for fonts
    that don't have 'em? They wouldn't even notice, with AdobeSans/AdobeSerif substitution.\r\n\r\nQuark
    7 still has a faux menu, and buries its OT menu. Aaaagh!"
  created: '2006-02-28 17:30:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> They wouldn\u2019t even notice, with AdobeSans/AdobeSerif substitution.\r\n\r\nA
    very good point - and one that applies to every area,\r\nincluding smallcaps,
    maybe even so-called \"true\" italics.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 17:40:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Right. If you're not bothered using a font with special features, and are
    happy with faux features, you're unlikely to be concerned whether your faux superior
    figure is from Times or AdobeSerif. \r\n\r\nParadoxically, you may be upset to
    get a true italic when you're expecting a sloped roman!\r\n\r\nNB. The AdobeSans
    and AdobeSerif MM fonts I'm referencing are OS 9, stored in the Acrobat Reader
    5 folder, and only have a basic character set -- no small caps."
  created: '2006-02-28 18:12:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If you\u2019re not bothered using a font with special\r\n> features, and
    are happy with faux features\r\n\r\nThe thing is, and my point is, most people
    don't even get that far!  :-/\r\nThey don't even realize there's anything to be
    bothered/happy about.\r\n\r\n> you may be upset to get a true italic when you\u2019re
    expecting a sloped roman!\r\n\r\nI actually know of one such case, and at the
    foundry level: when Joe Treacy subbed in a \"true\" italic for his Arrow family
    apparently his customers almost rioted. So now it has both.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 18:24:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David,\r\n\r\n<em>c. appropriate the \u201CUnicase\u201D feature to a useful
    task. Non-ambiguously state to customers and other vendors that neither you nor
    your users will see anything but lowercase forms drawn to the size of the H when
    this feature is selected.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think this is appropriating the
    Unicase feature at all: this is a perfectly valid use of the Unicase feature,
    as I stated at the beginning of this thread. It just so happens that the Unicase
    implementation illustrated in the feature tag description uses an Emigre typeface
    that matches uppercase forms to the lowercase x-height. But there's no reason
    at all not to do it the other way around. Go for it. If you want to make it a
    house style rule for Font Bureau that the Unicase feature will always imply this
    kind of implementation in your fonts, that's your prerogative."
  created: '2006-02-28 20:52:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "There is also the option to ignore OpenType features and have a separate
    common case font.\r\nSome of the advantages:\r\n* With InDesign, the font menu
    is easier to get at than the OpenType menu.\r\n* A straightforward size relationship
    of \"capitals\" and \"small\" (cased unicase) -- having the two sizes is rather
    like optical scaling."
  created: '2006-02-28 21:49:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> like optical scaling\r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 22:56:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '...Cased Unicase is like Caps with Small Caps, in that the two cases have
    identically shaped glyphs. So the larger size is lighter, more of a display treatment,
    while the smaller size has stronger features, more of a small text quality. '
  created: '2006-03-01 04:27:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You were saying... hack?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-01 04:42:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Caps with small caps is not a hack for optical scaling, as it is a genre of
    type which historically occurred before single-master (ie non-optically scaled)
    fonts.
  created: '2006-03-01 06:52:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"identical form in both cases, CcOoSsUuVvWwXxZz in Latin\"\r\n\r\nnot u."
  created: '2006-03-01 13:17:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Caps with small caps is not a hack for optical scaling ...\r\n\r\nNow my
    question mark kicks in again.\r\nIt's not a hack for what you seem to <cite>mean</cite>,
    but it very much is a hack when one uses any half-decent definition of \"optical
    scaling\" (a term you might consider appending to your New Year's resolution :-).\r\n\r\n>
    identical form in both cases, CcOoSsUuVvWwXxZz in Latin\r\n\r\n\"Identical form\"
    is way too strong. The most that can be said is\r\nthat they share a structure...
    but then you have to graple with the\r\nparadox that typographic (unlike for example
    chirographic) forms\r\ndon't actually have structure (at least not the way we
    tend to see it).\r\nIt's an illusion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-01 15:05:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> not u </em>\r\n\r\nSure it's the same, because the right side vertical
    stroke is redundant, a grace note.\r\nFutura, for instance.\r\nLinguistically
    redundant, but typographically helpful nonetheless.\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CIdentical
    form\u201D is way too strong.</em>\r\n\r\nRight. I'm referring to the underlying
    skeletal form.\r\n\r\n<em>it very much is a hack when one uses any half-decent
    definition of \u201Coptical scaling\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThat's like saying a gramophone
    is a hack of a CD player."
  created: '2006-03-01 18:28:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the right side vertical stroke is redundant\r\n\r\nThat of course makes
    no sense, not least because it leads\r\nstraight to formal hell. Pray tell: how
    does one determine\r\nwhat's redundant; what parts of what letters are redundant,\r\nexactly;
    is the left stem of the \"R\" redundant - why [not]?\r\n\r\nNick, trust me, this
    direction leads to the greatest quagmire\r\nin type design. Not somewhere an art
    director can be happy.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m referring to the underlying skeletal
    form.\r\n\r\nExcept there isn't one. And if there is, you're conveniently\r\nignoring
    parts of it (like in the U/u) at whim anyway, so...\r\n\r\n> That\u2019s like
    saying a gramophone is a hack of a CD player.\r\n\r\n?\r\nJust add it to your
    Resolution and everything will be fine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-01 18:54:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>formal hell</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/hRANT.png]\r\n\r\nTrust
    me, it's the same character if the spelling's the same. \r\nThe Casing/Bicameral
    system works (ie delivers orthographic significance) if readers can recognize
    two separate classes of glyphs underlying the setting/writing. Size is the main
    indicator. What the actual glyphs are shaped like doesn't matter (they can even
    be the same shape), as long as the letters are recognizable, and categorizable
    by the principle of case. In this example, upper case is minuscule, and lower
    case is majuscule."
  created: '2006-03-01 20:17:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More from previously:\r\n> I\u2019m referring to the underlying skeletal
    form.\r\n\r\nThe more one thinks there are skeletons under there,\r\nthe more
    one stays distant from true text face design.\r\n\r\nThe good way to think about
    typographic glyphs (the kind that designers never make by hand but users always
    read by eye) is in terms of notan, in terms of borders, not in terms of thicknesses
    being built up from skeletons.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s the same character if the spelling\u2019s
    the same.\r\n\r\nBut the spelling isn't the same. Your spelling there is Incorrect,\r\nsomething
    that's possible to state in orthography but not typography.\r\nThe best evidence
    would come if you asked people -especially those\r\nwho don't know [of] me*- what
    that says. They might say... dunno...\r\n\"horizontal rant\"?** But if you spelled
    it correcly they're quite\r\nlikely to know it's a proper name.\r\n\r\n* Of which
    there still are a few I hope.  ;-)\r\n\r\n** And everybody knows that my rants
    are always vertical.\r\n\r\nAlso: Even if most people can read something spelled
    incorrectly\r\nthe way it was \"supposed\" to be spelled, that doesn't say anything\r\nat
    all about orthography.\r\n\r\n> Size is the main indicator.\r\n\r\nThat's crucially
    different than what you said before.\r\n\r\n> What the actual glyphs are shaped
    like doesn\u2019t matter\r\n\r\nMaybe to some art directors.\r\nTo most other
    people they sure do matter.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBut anyway you're digressing - maybe
    because you don't want to admit\r\nthat your stance on the U/u is wrong. Come
    on, it's not that hard.\r\n\r\nAnyway.\r\nWhat I was getting at above is that
    you can't make blanket statements about which parts of which characters (again,
    not the same as letters!) are \"redundant\" - certainly not without thinking quite
    deeply about it. Is the top-left \"cornerness\" of the UC \"F\" not \"redundant\"?
    If you make it round, it starts getting close to the lc form, so becoming part
    of your \"UC/lc identical form\" invention. And have you seen the lc \"g\" in
    the credits for Spongebob Squarepants? Is it really lc? In fact almost all the
    letters that are not in your List can be drawn quite easily in a way that they
    can be either UC or lc, so invalidating your U/u distinction. Futura has a lc
    \"u\" without a full right stem? Who cares. That says nothing about anything useful,
    like what the conventions are.\r\n\r\nAnd when it comes to the U/u, instead of
    claiming the untenable \"the lc form doesn't require a full right stem to be conventional\"*
    you should instead simply point out that some entirely conventional fonts (like
    Perpetua) have an UC \"U\" with a full right stem. This converse is parallel to
    the truism that You Can't Prove Something Doesn't Exist.\r\n\r\n* You might say
    that's not what you stated. But it's the only sensical thing that can come out
    of your line of thought, if you really think it through. Conventionality is really
    the key concept here - simply because if you loosen things up virtually anything
    is legible!\r\n\r\nThe fact is glyphs never fall neatly into any box, including
    UC/lc.\r\nYour categorization holds about as much water as a lc \"n\". Without
    a full left stem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-01 22:30:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>you don\u2019t want to admit that your stance on the U/u is wrong.</em>\r\n\r\nInstead
    of seizing on any little thing you think you can \"score points\" on, try to look
    at the big picture and understand my full argument.\r\n\r\nCharacters don't change
    from Upper to Lower Case.\r\nThey may or may not look the same. \r\nA is the same
    character as a, despite Unicode's expedient definition.\r\nCasing is necessary
    to support the orthographically/grammatically meaningful \"Titlecase\", but it's
    immaterial whether the glyph shapes are very dissimilar (A and a), debatably dissimilar
    (U and u), or the same (S and s, etc.). As you put it:\r\n\r\n<em>The fact is
    glyphs never fall neatly into any box, including UC/lc.</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-01 23:09:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> try to look at the big picture\r\n\r\nI always do, but since I know we
    disagree on it,\r\nand since I harbor no hope of changing your mind,\r\nthe only
    thing left to discuss is the details, in the\r\nhopes of helping third parties.
    And because talking\r\nhelps me think. And it's fun.\r\n\r\n> Characters don\u2019t
    change from Upper to Lower Case.\r\n\r\nIncorrect.\r\n\r\n> A is the same character
    as a\r\n\r\nNo, it's only the same letter.\r\n\r\n> The fact is glyphs never fall
    neatly into any box, including UC/lc.\r\n\r\nGlyphs, not letters.\r\nAnd the point
    there was to explain how your stance on the U/u is wrong.\r\n\r\nYour line of
    thought is only relevant in the context of convention.\r\nIn the context of convention,
    the lc \"u\" has a full right stem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-01 23:22:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, your nit-picking over U/u is avoiding dealing with the crux of my
    theory:\r\n\r\n1. Titlecase is the only grammatically significant use of casing.\r\n\r\n2.
    In terms of grammar, Titlecase is a form of Inflection. Whereas most inflection
    signifies a grammatical feature by altering the spelling of a word, Titlecase
    does so by upper-casing the initial character, and lower-casing the rest.\r\n\r\n3.
    This grammatical signification does not happen at the level of character, but
    at the level of display (ie typography), primarily through size contrast.\r\n\r\n4.
    While there are conventional groupings of majuscule, minuscule, and unicule glyphs
    into case pairings (primarily Upper & Lower, and Caps with Small Caps), there
    is no direct correlation between case and \"-cule\". \r\n\r\n5. Unicase is a misnomer,
    as is common-case. This is demonstrated by the feasability of \"Cased Unicase\",
    and the fact that \"Unicase\" can be either upper-case or lower-case size. Perhaps
    \"multicule\" would be more accurate.\r\n\r\n6. For basic typography, the present
    system of \"characterizing\" the difference betweeen upper and lower case has
    expediency, but it creates problems further along, e.g. in assigning the appropriate
    figures for a particular case."
  created: '2006-03-02 00:51:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Avoiding it? The parts I thought were worth addressing,\r\nI already have.
    But every new post of yours seems to\r\ncontain a new objectionable offshoot.
    Or three. :-)\r\n\r\nThe real avoidance Nick is you not admitting you're wrong
    about\r\nincluding the U/u in that list. Nitpicking? On the contrary, that\r\nfault
    has opened up a line of discussion much more interesting to\r\nme than the original
    topic or the direction you want to take.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-02 01:26:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The way the casing is handled in Futura, Bauhaus, Perpetua, Giovanni, etc.
    indicates that it's acceptable to handle the U/u character as a \"unicule\" --
    i.e. the same structure in both upper and lower case.\r\nAs you say, it's possible
    to design upper and lower with more commonality than is usual, and I've done that
    in Morphica. \r\nLike I said, as long as the reader can discern from the text
    what design system the typeface uses to differentiate upper and lower case, and
    as long as the glyphs are identifiable as characters, anything goes.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Morph.png]"
  created: '2006-03-02 03:35:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s acceptable to handle the U/u character as a \u201Cunicule\u201D\r\n\r\nBut
    the point is that if/when that's acceptable, then a bunch of other letters (maybe
    even all of them) can be \"unicule\" just fine too. So your list is either pointless
    because raw legibility is very lenient, or it should not have the U/u because
    it codifies convention. Why is this so hard to understand/admit?\r\n\r\n> as long
    as the reader can discern from the text what design system\r\n> the typeface uses
    to differentiate upper and lower case, and as long\r\n> as the glyphs are identifiable
    as characters, anything goes.\r\n\r\nIn display design. Text faces are a whole
    other ballgame.\r\nAnd as long as you think Eunoia-Text merits its suffix you\r\nwon't
    be in that game.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-02 04:37:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Text faces are a whole other ballgame.</em>\r\n\r\nFor you, more of a
    hobby horse.\r\nHow's the Baskerville coming?"
  created: '2006-03-02 05:28:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "There's the panic alarm going off in Shinnistan again...\r\n\r\nNick, you
    really think that admitting a mistake (it's not even a major\r\none really) looks
    worse than acting like you don't make any? Oh well.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-02 05:45:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: The reason I included U/u in my list of "unicles" is because of faces like
    Cocon, Futura, Giovanni, Perpetua, etc., etc., etc. The practice of using the
    same form of U/u for upper and lower case is widespread -- and done with both
    versions, with or without the right-side stroke extension. The casing of U/u is
    not like other bi-form characters such as N/n, where the typical lower case form
    may also be used in upper case, because there is a fundamental shape difference
    between N and n, and its majuscule form is not used in lower case. Simply put,
    the u's stroke extension is not significant in distinguishing majuscule from minuscule,
    and as such is redundant to the basic letter form.
  created: '2006-03-02 07:45:25'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Simply put, the u\u2019s stroke extension is not significant in distinguishing
    majuscule from minuscule, and as such is redundant to the basic letter form.\"\r\n\r\nOiy.
    Thou fiddleth around parts of characters while OT burns?"
  created: '2006-03-02 12:45:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the u\u2019s stroke extension is not significant\r\n> in distinguishing
    majuscule from minuscule\r\n\r\nYou've got to be kidding. It's their main difference!
    And sometimes it can matter: picture \"US\" set in smallcaps in a sentence (in
    a font with the -traditional- x-height height smallcaps).\r\n\r\nAnd that's just
    the biggest thing wrong in your new post - I won't get into the fundamental difference
    between \"widespread\" and \"conventional\" for one thing...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-02 17:14:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Thou fiddleth</em>\r\n\r\nI ain't no emperor.\r\nI do have the time to
    engage in banter on Typophile. But I wasn't aware that there was a role for independent
    foundries in developing OpenType, which is the preserve of MS and Adobe -- or
    layout interfaces, which is the preserve of MS, Adobe and Quark -- or Unicode,
    which is the preserve of scholars and programmers, not typographers and type designers
    like me who are at a far remove from the business establishment.\r\n\r\nI have
    the impression that if the concerns of Font Bureau are a cry in the wilderness,
    I'm just a whisperer, not a fiddler.\r\n\r\n<em>It\u2019s their main difference!</em>\r\n\r\nExactly.
    But it is so slight and variable (in all three widespread conventions, i.e. both
    cases with extra stroke, both cases without extra stroke, and stroke only on lower
    case), that it does not create clearly defined, oppositional majuscule and minuscule
    forms. Compare the blatant contrast between majuscule/minuscule forms here, and
    see why I group U/u with the unicules:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/UniFig.png]\r\nEven
    if the U/u contrast is exaggerated, as in Scala Sans, it's very slight, less apparent
    than the alternate W/w forms, in fact.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/UniSca.png]"
  created: '2006-03-02 19:45:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "\"Engage in banter\"? A likely story...\r\n\r\n> it does not create clearly
    defined,\r\n> oppositional majuscule and minuscule forms.\r\n\r\nType design is
    all about subtlety (not least because perception, and certainly reading, is all
    about subtlety). When we worry about the smallest details that might affect the
    reader, you can't say that a full stem is irrelevant with a straight face. Not
    to mention that certainly the K/k, probably the Y/y, and possibly the P/p, are
    different to about the same degree; it's increasingly clear that the line you're
    drawing makes no sense (but that's what happens when you're more interested in
    winning an argument than seriously discussing type with a desire to grow, an ability
    to correct yourself).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-02 20:10:59'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, I may be intransigent, but I would rather banter than trade personal
    insults.\r\nCould you please remove the \"psychological insight\" from your last
    post?"
  created: '2006-03-02 23:06:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "But of course it's entirely OK for you to call\r\nme a \"clueless idiot\",
    mister \"don't ask Gerry\r\nabout Greek type\". You see, Nick, the only way\r\nfor
    people not to be able to hold stupid things you\r\nsay against you is if you formally
    retract them.\r\nBe grateful you are being given the chance.\r\nOtherwise, when
    you complain, you come off\r\nas an unfair whiner.\r\n\r\nNot that I will ever
    substitute cocktail-party civility for candor.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-02 23:44:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>unfair</em>\r\nWhen you say that I am not a text type designer (which
    you frequently insinuate into threads) it is candour. When I say you are a clueless
    idiot (which I did once, upon provocation by your \"candour\") it is stupid."
  created: '2006-03-03 17:57:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Even when I use your own benchmarks of what constitutes a personal attack
    and what doesn't, you try to weasel out of it... Guess who else isn't a \"real\"
    text face designer: me! But I think I'm at least heading in the right direction,
    while you have yet to do that. Only a despot would hold that up as an unacceptable
    personal attack. Having an ego is one thing (I would know), demanding adulation
    is another. And how did Gerry \"provoke\" you? By calling your Greek something
    like \"in the vein of misguided Greek designs of the 70s\". Keep your ear on,
    Van Shinn.\r\n\r\nBTW, if you think you were wrong to call me a \"clueless idiot\",\r\nthere's
    always the unthinkable recourse... Not that I care, since\r\nit would basically
    be for your own benefit.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-03 18:30:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "And how did Gerry \u201Cprovoke\u201D you? By calling your Greek type something
    like \u201Cin the vein of the misguided Greek designs of the 70s\u201D.\r\n\r\nWorse,
    he compared it with Times Greek, the ultimate diss :-)\r\nBut I must protest that
    my \"Don't ask Gerry about Greek\" comment was made later, and not in anger, but
    jest -- a type designer who, from his techno/grunge oeuvre, didn't strike me as
    the calligraphic kind, wanted some pointers on Greek type design; it was in this
    context that I repeated Mr Leonidas' advice to me to get liquored and start writing
    with a soft pencil. \r\n\r\n<em>Only a despot would hold that up as an unacceptable
    personal attack.</em>\r\n\r\nThat wasn't the consensus at Typophile last year,
    when OldNick, I believe, explained the principle of the ad hominem argument. It
    was generally agreed that the ad hominem argument should be avoided. You dissented.
    So I don't know why I'm arguing this again. Have the last word, if you wish."
  created: '2006-03-03 19:10:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I have the impression that if the concerns of Font Bureau are a cry in
    the wilderness,\"\r\n\r\nMaybe so, but the wilderness is closin' in. Last week,
    the China.gov started the process of limiting the names of babies to glyphs in
    the first 15,000 of the std.. No more Chinese equivalents of DeShondra, Giselbert
    or Christian.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-21 11:43:29'
date: '2006-01-27 17:53:20'
node_type: forum
title: unicase ???

---
