---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/conc_si.jpg]  \r\n\r\nvs \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mc_si1.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nVerdana
  has been nominated in this competition organized by London's Design Museum. \r\n\r\nhttp://www.designmuseum.org/digital/index.php?id=11&pt=1
  \r\n\r\nOn Sunday I visited two of the other nominees at Seattle's excellent Museum
  of Flight - I think Verdana has the edge over both Concorde and the Spitfire - but
  we shall see. \r\n\r\nHere's the voting page - http://www.bbc.co.uk/arts/cultureshow/designquest/vote/
  \r\n\r\nAlthough I'm not sure if the typeface will win, it's great that type design
  has been recognized by the organizers. The British motorway signage system has also
  been nominated.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's great to see type design getting such props, but Verdana isn't particularly
    British, it's international, designed for Microsoft by an expat.\r\n\r\nI'd vote
    for The Face, but not 1981; 1984 was the year Neville Brody developed <a href=\"http://www.shinntype.com/Assets/Depts/Essays/Industri.pdf\">\"Industria\"</a>
    in its pages. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-01-30 21:45:23'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'I''ve voted for the Tschichold Penguin paperback. Sixpence - the modern equivalent
    of 56p, or about $1 - for a Monotype-set, superbly designed book. '
  created: '2006-01-30 23:16:49'
- author:
    name: Hamilton
    picture: 111203
  body: "Mr Shinn is right, of course. Verdana? What about Gill Sans, the most British
    of all the typefaces? Perhaps Gill's controversial lifestyle prevented the inclusion.\r\n\r\nIn
    my opinion it is an injustice Gill is not represented. A true British designer,
    complete with eccentricities."
  created: '2006-01-31 13:00:39'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: ">What about Gill Sans?\r\n\r\nThe London Underground map is also a contender
    - although it's Johnston not Gill, the typographic link is so close.\r\n\r\nThis
    design gets my vote. It's so unmistakably British! It's been copied time and time
    again for pretty much every other underground/rail system in cities around the
    world. It just works. I particularly like the concept of separating the physical
    geography out of the map - spectacularly innovative. It's just a shame that Beck
    got screwed over and didn't make much (if any) money on it..."
  created: '2006-01-31 13:57:38'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Verdana is great craftsmanship, but I don''t think it has the aesthetic greatness
    to merit being chosen eg over the Concorde. The Concorde is both extremely functional
    and extremely beautiful. This is not to criticise the face, as the limitations
    of the screen severely limited what Matthew Carter could do. He himself says his
    challenge was identify the least ugly shape that would work effectively within
    the constraints. It seems to me that what is chosen as representative of the best
    should have both qualities--functionality and aesthetics. '
  created: '2006-01-31 14:02:24'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "What is a bit of a puzzler is that Concorde was a joint anglo-french production,
    so it's not 100% British design! The pic just shows Concorde wearing BA livery,
    rather than Air France livery.\r\n\r\nIt's a bit bizarre to lump all kinds of
    design together and ask people to pick their favourite design. I kind of like
    most of them. How do you favour a map over a car or vice-versa? I suppose it's
    good in that it promotes awareness of effective design (whilst waving the Union
    Jack about a bit)."
  created: '2006-01-31 14:45:18'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "What is a bit of a puzzler is that Concorde was a joint anglo-french production,
    so it's not 100% British design! The pic just shows Concorde wearing BA livery,
    rather than Air France livery.\r\n\r\nIt's a bit bizarre to lump all kinds of
    design together and ask people to pick their favourite design. I kind of like
    most of them. How do you favour a map over a car or vice-versa? I suppose it's
    good in that it promotes awareness of effective design (whilst waving the Union
    Jack about a bit)."
  created: '2006-01-31 14:46:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Gill Sans \r\n\r\nGill can't be nominated as it's the BBC's corporate face
    and that would be unfair. ;-)"
  created: '2006-01-31 14:49:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Listism is banal, but an easy form of promotion.\r\nThey have a lot of this
    rubbish in the UK.\r\nAs well as some very intelligent media, of course!"
  created: '2006-01-31 17:27:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Looks like the Great British Public has spoken, and the man in the street
    has swept out almost all the graphic design/typography related entries in the
    first round. \r\n\r\nFortuantely that means you have to vote for the tube map
    in round two...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/arts/cultureshow/designquest/vote/\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si "
  created: '2006-02-20 22:05:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <a href="http://www.guardian.co.uk/arts/news/story/0,11711,1314089,00.html">What
    he said.</a>
  created: '2006-02-21 08:28:18'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "Dyson is myopic.\r\n\r\n'The Design Museum was founded to herald the manufactured
    object and the industrial design process'\r\n\r\nHmmm... you must mean product
    design, James. In which case it should have been called the Product Design Museum,
    not the Design Museum."
  created: '2006-02-21 10:10:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "A couple of more recent articles on the Museum\r\n\r\nhttp://www.telegraph.co.uk/arts/main.jhtml?xml=/arts/2006/02/13/badesign13.xml
    \r\n\r\nhttp://news.ft.com/cms/s/e400dfe6-9a24-11da-8b63-0000779e2340.html \r\n\r\nhttp://news.independent.co.uk/uk/this_britain/article343399.ece
    \r\n\r\nhttp://www.creativematch.co.uk/viewNews/?91998\r\n\r\nI don't know much
    about Alice Rawsthorn, but from what I have heard she's been a supporter of type
    design for some time - an area of design I think the Dyson crowd would like sweep
    under the carpet ;-)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-21 14:49:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I don't think Dyson is myopic. As Terence Conran notes: 'what James has wanted,
    and I agree totally with him, is to create a balance between exhibitions of what
    is hip and fashionable and those that explain the process of design and why that
    process matters so much in Britain today',  and identifying the need to give 'space
    and energy to less obviously fashionable, yet equally fascinating and, <em>socially
    and economically, more significant design.'</em> [my italics]. I'm very sympathetic
    to this, because far too much of what gets publicly presented as design is mere
    stylistics and window dressing. And this isn't a crude division between industrial
    design and graphic design: there are whole areas of graphic design dealing with
    information design, wayfinding systems, etc. that generally gets passed over in
    favour of flashy brand-oriented design.\r\n\r\nA few years ago, Briem paid me
    a visit and in the course of our conversation he described type design as industrial
    design. This really struck me, especially since it was coming from such an accomplished
    expressive calligrapher. I don't think all type design is industrial design --
    certainly a lot of display type is not --, but I think there is more commonality
    between the working processes and attitudes of type design and, e.g. vacuum cleaner
    design, than there is with a lot of graphic design."
  created: '2006-02-21 21:24:04'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: "Have you been to the Design Museum? Admittedly, it was a couple of years
    the last time I visited. To be honest, I got more out of Tate Modern and I'm more
    into the graphical side of things to boot. Admittedly, the Design Museum is incomparable
    in terms of space; the scope that design covers is enormous... when I visited,
    it devoted most space to architecture (as yet not mentioned). It must be a difficult
    juggling act to keep everyone happy. I just don't think Dyson kicking out at it
    helps things... maybe a separate graphic design museum should be the way forward.
    It plays a very small part in the Design Museum, and if you've travelled all the
    way to London, I've got a feeling that many graphic designers would end up disppointed.\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-02-22 08:59:12'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: FWIW. I went to the Design Museum yesterday. Only one floor open. The British
    Design award and the Robert BrownJohn exhibit are all that is currently open.
    There is a discount right now. The BJ exhibit closes this Sunday. I have to say
    the discount was a good thing as the BJ exhibit wasn't as large as I'd hoped for.
    Of course you get to see the titles he did for "From Russia with Love" and "Goldfinger".
    His titles for "The Tortoise and th Hare" -- clever for their time. But his television
    commercials didn't do anything for me. He has some print work that did make me
    grin. Mostly in the time with Chermayeff and Geismar so I have to wonder. I will
    get the book, but only after I find it for sale. I won't go into as I'm sure some
    worship all he has done.
  created: '2006-02-22 11:52:35'
- author:
    name: JonPhillips
  body: Slightly OT, but with regard to Dyson and the excellence of his designs, whenever
    I visit my local household waste site ('the tip'), there are always around 10-15
    of his hideous vacuum cleaners leaning up against the 'recycled plastic' skip.
    The wife and I always drive away feeling particularly smug that we bought a Sebo
    - a fine piece of German engineering.
  created: '2006-02-22 15:45:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: On the subject of the London Tube map, some of these <a href="http://www.geofftech.co.uk/tube/sillymaps/">variations</a>
    are fascinating.
  created: '2006-02-22 19:07:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'That is so cool! '
  created: '2006-02-22 20:57:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I think <a href="http://blogs.guardian.co.uk/culturevulture/archives/2006/02/03/going_underground.html">this
    article</a> is related to what John just posted. Either way, interesting.
  created: '2006-02-22 21:28:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Sii > I don\u2019t know much about Alice Rawsthorn, but from what I have
    heard she\u2019s been a supporter of type design for some time \r\n\r\nOkay, I
    take it back, having just read ...\r\n http://www.nytimes.com/2006/02/26/style/tmagazine/t_w_1051_talk_rawsthorn_.html?_r=1&oref=login
    \r\n\r\n\"And only an uncool idiot would ever use Arial.\"\r\n\r\n... such as,
    er The New York Times online edition, which uses it for naviagation and sidebars...
    #nagBar { font-family: Arial, Helvetica, Sans Serif; ...\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-02-27 16:41:03'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It's bad design, not good design, that makes an impression\r\n>How can a
    product that doesn't work and offends the eye possibly be described as a 'design
    classic', says Germaine Greer \r\n\r\nhttp://arts.guardian.co.uk/comment/story/0,,1729662,00.html\r\n\r\nAlso
    it's the final round and the Underground map is still in the running - \r\n\r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/arts/cultureshow/designquest/vote/
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-13 16:48:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "For those that care, Concorde won...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.bbc.co.uk/arts/cultureshow/designquest/vote/
    \r\n\r\nAnd Verdana came 22nd "
  created: '2006-03-19 20:48:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hmmmm, jet plane, typeface--go figure.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-19 22:54:00'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "Nick: I work for neville -- I'll be sure to tell him tomorrow -- bet he'll
    be chuffed. That or add it to the pile of complements he keeps in the 'archive
    room'.\r\n\r\nAs for verdana -- it's very much an international affair. As much
    as there is credit for the design museum for even considering the impact of type,
    I fear this is another half-baked attempt of theirs. The DM recently hosted a
    talk by Carter and introduced him as a 'world leader in typography'. Suffice to
    say the audience cringed."
  created: '2006-03-20 00:38:10'
- author:
    name: Richard Hards
    picture: 110084
  body: "Tiffany, was there any explanation about why only one floor of the Design
    Museum was open when you visited?\r\n\r\nA post in another place led me to look
    up [[Kinneir]]and [[Calvert]], one thing leads to another, and I ended up at the
    <a href=\"http://www.designmuseum.org/\" target=\"new\">Design Museum</a>.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to their (very clever, Flashy, rather awkward) site, there is a \"Designing Modern
    Britain\" exhibition that is supposed to be running from 3 Dec 2005 'til 26 Nov
    2006.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.designmuseum.org/exhibimg/mediarelease_143.pdf\"
    target=\"new\">Here</a> is a link to a PDF Press Release (the link on their site
    keeps getting hidden under the rollover navigation!)\r\n\r\nI think I shall have
    to go and have a look.\r\n\r\nI also found <a href=\"http://www.benkellydesign.com/home.php?id=5:0:14:0:0\"
    target=\"new\">this</a>\r\n\r\nRichard"
  created: '2006-03-25 19:47:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Despite a bit of banality in this list nonsense (probably a necessity in the
    PR game), the Design Museum pays serious props to typography and "information
    design", in an often unusual and stimulating manner. Always worth a visit, and
    what a brilliant place to be in summer, walking to it across the Thames by footbridge,
    and along the Embankment.
  created: '2006-03-25 20:06:38'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "i went to the Saul Bass exhibit at the Design Museum in 2004, and i absolutely
    loved it. it's a shame Bass, despite being so prolific, doesn't get more props
    in general though. the fact that there are barely any books on him and/or his
    work is just so depressing.\r\n\r\nbut back to the topic at hand, i can't believe
    Concorde won. personally i think more of France than England when i think about
    Concorde.. the Underground maps/design, the Mini Cooper and Routemaster buses
    are far more distinctly British in my mind."
  created: '2006-03-25 20:40:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> 1984 was the year Neville Brody developed \u201CIndustria\u201D in its
    pages.\r\n\r\nBut Industria was inspired (using the term quite forgivingly)\r\nby
    a German design from the first half of the 20th century.\r\n\r\n> The London Underground
    map\r\n\r\nTo me it's unnecessarily Modernist.\r\nNot representative of the inherent
    organicity of any metro system.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-25 22:45:22'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "> But Industria was inspired (using the term quite forgivingly)\r\nby a German
    design from the first half of the 20th century.\r\n\r\n(and italian) I don't think
    there's any doubt about that and nor would neville deny it. I think the hoohaa
    about the FACE was more about the innovation in typography in its contemporary
    application (again see el lissitzky(sp?))\r\n\r\n> To me it\u2019s unnecessarily
    Modernist.\r\nNot representative of the inherent organicity of any metro system.\r\n\r\nI
    disagree. It's necessity as a piece of clear information design leads it this
    way, rather than modernism dictating its form. I don't believe information design
    to be the strict bastian of modernism, but it certainly has its pros, particularly
    against the huge numbers, and diversity of people that use the map everyday.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 00:34:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Having seen Brody in person, I can tell he's a Good Guy. But the design I'm
    talking about is so close to Industria that really, the first thing anybody should
    say about it is that. Instead, I had to run into it myself, many years afterwards.\r\n\r\nThe
    problem with the London Underground Map is that it sacrifices\r\nlayers of information,
    information that can useful to some people\r\nsometimes, and for what reason?
    Das Grid.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 02:33:01'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "would love to see it if you have a scan at hand? \r\n\r\nwhat information
    are you talking about here?"
  created: '2006-03-26 02:42:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Scan? Doesn't Google show anything?\r\n\r\nBTW, there's a great article in
    a back issue of\r\nTYPO magazine (or was it Baseline?) comparing the\r\nsubway
    maps of various cities - very revealing.\r\n\r\n> what information are you talking
    about here?\r\n\r\nThe first that comes to mind: relative distances.\r\nThere's
    a lot of potential between making things exactly\r\nto scale versus throwing the
    baby out with the bathwater.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 02:56:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Scan: I'm sorry - I just realized you were talking about Industria!  :-/\r\nSoon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 03:01:21'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.oskarlin.com/2005/11/29/time-travel/\r\n\r\nhttp://homepage.ntlworld.com/clivebillson/tube/tube.html\r\n\r\nThrowing
    scale out, while it does make some situations more difficult, seems to me to be
    a price worth paying for easier and, more importantly, route-planning. That first
    link is an impressive piece of work.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-03-26 10:46:45'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: I agree with Tim on this matter, though oskarlin's example is admirable and
    seems to do a decent job. Using time as a unit of measurment is also an interesting
    idea, if not entirely practical or futureproof.
  created: '2006-03-26 16:36:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "When you two make up your minds let me know.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIt's that ol'
    Modernism, got your brains by the balls.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 16:50:39'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">sacrifices layers of information, information that can useful to some people
    sometimes, and for what reason? Das Grid.\r\n\r\n>It\u2019s that ol\u2019 Modernism,
    got your brains by the balls.\r\n\r\nAs Tim's useful links reveal, the designer
    of the map, Harry Beck, was an electrical draftsman, whose idea for his breakthrough
    1933 map came from electrical circuit diagrams, not from modernist aesthetics.
    The horizontal, vertical and diagonal lines are just easier to follow with the
    eye and the finger, as with circuit diagrams. \r\n\r\nThe additional information
    you say is of use to 'some people, sometimes' is exactly the information that
    makes more informationally-loaded maps worse for most riders, most of the time.
    \ Circuit diagrams reduce the information to what electrical devices are conntected
    to what other electrical devices--the essentials of how the circuit works and
    how to connect it or trouble-shoot it. \r\n\r\nSimilarly, the advantage of Beck's
    approach is that it gives the rider immediately the most \"mission critical\"
    information: The stops, and where to change to another line. This information
    about connections is the essential information for the decisions the rider needs
    to make to plan his or her route from one station to another. The schematic insertion
    of the river gives an orientation, without detracting. \r\n\r\nThe 'time travel'
    link of Tim is a noble effort that shows how difficult it is to improve on Beck's
    design. The revised version is not as compact, and the lines are harder to follow
    with the eye. Both significant minuses. Furthermore, the current version of Beck's
    map is close enough to relating time travel and length that it I believe is always
    or almost always possible for a Tube rider to find the shortest path in time to
    his or her destination. (There may be an issue about the picadilly vs victoria
    line; I don't remember for sure.)\r\n\r\nOverall, the time travel map would be
    a useful addition to the 'London A-Z' map, which a significant number of tube
    riders probably have on their person, and which contains the geographic information.
    \r\n\r\nHaving lived in London and used Tube and the map daily for 5 years, I
    can testify that it is great information design. Tim I see is a Londoner, and
    so speaks from knowledge and experience of using the map. His brains are working
    just fine. "
  created: '2006-03-26 18:07:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The horizontal, vertical and diagonal lines are\r\n> just easier to follow
    with the eye and the finger\r\n\r\nPoppycock.\r\nAnd the \"grid\" I was referring
    to goes beyond the Cartesian.\r\nHumans are not computers.\r\n\r\nI've been on
    I don't know how many metro systems. And I've actually\r\nbeen outside them too;
    the inhuman disjoin is the essence of my complaint.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIndustria:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ProtoIndustria.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 18:25:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">poppycock\r\n\r\nHow about some analysis that answers my specific points?
    Epithets are not arguments. \r\n\r\n>humans are not computers\r\n\r\nWho said
    they were?\r\n\r\n>the inhuman disjoint\r\n\r\nHorizontal and vertical are basic
    visual orientations that are imbeded in the human visual system. That's why horizonal
    and vertical lines are easy to pick out and follow. The design is well suited
    to humans who need to do a specific task: quickly see how to get to their destination. "
  created: '2006-03-26 18:53:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Univers and Helvetica are closer.
  created: '2006-03-26 19:01:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, are you... jesting?\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/industria/solid/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 19:14:19'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "the influences are transparent, but I don't think the two fonts are that
    similar. Modularity of this kind in typefaces tends to reveal, naturally similar
    results. There are quite a few similar designs, of the same era to the one you
    posted Hrant (and thanks for that), but it looks like he's done something of his
    own to it, in my eyes. The design you posted feels closer to conservative models
    than neville's, and more human (if I dare describe it that way). Still, all interesting,
    and a shame they're not closer -- I was semi-hoping they were so I could rib him.\r\n\r\nAnd
    I aint no zombie modernist, Mr Presumptuous ;)"
  created: '2006-03-26 21:24:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> similar results\r\n\r\nAdmittedly a common phenomenon.\r\n\r\nAlso: He
    couldn't have seen it where I saw it, since\r\nthat book, \"130 Alphabets\", was
    published 2 years\r\nafter Industria was released (as per MyFonts).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 21:33:52'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Beck\u2019s map</em>\r\n\r\nBeck's map is not a map, it is a diagram
    (regardless of what it says on the printed pieces). Once you accept that, you'll
    also accept that you cannot map a city the size of London diagrammatically without
    sacrificing some information. If the distances would be equal across the diagramm,
    i.e. proportionate to their true measurements, either the centre would be ridiculously
    small or the stations beyond the circle line would need to be shown on separate
    sheets. \r\n\r\nThe trouble is that the tube diagram is so well-known by now that
    most people \u2013 especially those not familiar with the city \u2013 use it as
    their <em>only</em> reference to London. More often than not, tourists will travel
    an extra 15 minutes on the tube when they could walk the distance between stops
    in 5. \r\n\r\nWe \u2013 Tim Fendley at AIG in London with a little help from myself
    \u2013 are currently working on a project which should provide better information,
    both in print and on the ground \u2013 for pedestrians. Walking is a very good
    way to get around London, but for most visitors, the topography can be intimidating\_-
    especially if they're from grid-based North America. Das Grid (or Der Raster,
    as we call it) actually makes those people feel more at ease than \"proper\" maps. "
  created: '2006-03-27 04:02:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I don't know what the design process behind Industria was, but here's what
    I assumed, as a Face subscriber. In May 1984, this was the cover:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Face84.png]\r\n\r\nTwo
    months later, the typeface later named Industria appeared in the magazine.\r\nSeeing
    the way that visual ideas evolved in The Face from issue to issue, it seemed obvious
    at the time that the ELECTRO cover was the bridge between Neville Brody's earlier
    post-punk mixed-up-Mecanorma headline style, and using the type styles he designed
    himself. Simple modular faces look alike, and I don't see why Industria couldn't
    be developed without reference.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-27 06:45:06'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve been on I don\u2019t know how many metro systems. And I\u2019ve
    actually\r\nbeen outside them too; the inhuman disjoin is the essence of my complaint.</em>\r\n
    \r\nWhat is your anti-modernist alternative?\r\n(Remember that your alternative
    should fit on an A5 size and include all stops from Heathrow to Upminster, and
    High Barnet to Morden)\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-03-27 11:47:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Verdana is great craftsmanship, but I don\u2019t think it has the aesthetic
    greatness to merit being chosen eg over the Concorde.\"\r\n\r\nWell, you can read
    Verdana, but you can't board a Concorde. I'd say, that's a pretty good indicator
    of which one works better. I think is amazing how design competitions and museum
    spats bring out the fits to match the hissies .:)"
  created: '2006-03-27 13:55:33'
- author:
    name: dux
    picture: 110146
  body: "\"Well, you can read Verdana, but you can\u2019t board a Concorde. I\u2019d
    say, that\u2019s a pretty good indicator of which one works better.\"\r\n\r\nlol"
  created: '2006-03-27 14:42:12'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: when i went to London a few years ago i bought this pocket map from a vending
    machine that they had in most tube stations. it cost like a quid or two, and it
    had maps of the central areas of London with the street grid, bus routes and tube
    stations/routes all on the same map. very handy for the tourist who isn't too
    likely to venture too far out of the central areas (there was a traditional full
    tube map in it too though). no idea if they still make them, but i'd highly recommend
    it. fits in your pocket, inexpensive and covers most of your needs as a tourist.
  created: '2006-03-27 14:46:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, let's not get ahead of ourselves - before I address what's\r\nwrong
    in your most-recent post, please concede the following:\r\n- Industria is not
    a typically British font.\r\n- My sample is much closer to Industria than it is
    to Helvetica or Univers.\r\nTell you what, I'll make you a deal: just one of those
    is fine.\r\n\r\nTim, I'm not good enough to design anything better. But I am good
    enough to know there's something wrong, and to have ideas for improvement. Like
    addressing Erik's \"tourists will travel an extra 15 minutes on the tube when
    they could walk the distance between stops in 5.\" Of course a strict application
    of scale would backfire, but what about a square (or greater) root of distances
    (or time)? Think of how (good) diagrams of the solar system -a much more extreme
    case- do NOT show the planets equally spaced and all the same size. Or what about
    splitting the map/diagram into two: a central one, and a broad one. Think of how
    infrequently commuters would need to switch between them. It's not like suburbanites
    who use the same route to get to/from work every day ever look at the diagram
    anyway; and few tourists venture outside the center. The desire to put everything
    on one page isn't necessarily good design, it's more likely despotic.\r\n\r\nMy
    point is there's no reason -except worshipping Modernism- to dump all that \"real\"
    information. If you incoporate extra layers in a subtle way, no commuter is going
    to miss his train; and some commuters will have more questions answered - people
    are not morons, they observe and extract. And what's the real sacrifice? It would
    look less \"tidy\". But you can't make soup with tidy. Post-war insecurity is
    best addressed with open discussion, not a whitewash of oversimplification in
    the dirty practical details of life.\r\n\r\n> you can read Verdana, but you can\u2019t
    board a Concorde.\r\n\r\nGood point, but do look at the age difference.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-27 15:21:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "747s are older and still flying :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-27 15:56:08'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "- Industria is not a typically British font.\r\n\r\nA great design would
    not necessarily follow what went before.\r\nHowever, for a precedent in British
    design, of hard edged condensed sans faces, consider the mod '60s and Compacta,
    Impact, and Ken Garland's work eg the original First Things First manifesto.\r\n\r\n-
    My sample is much closer to Industria than it is to Helvetica or Univers.\r\n\r\nI
    said that Univers was closer to Helvetica than your sample was to industria."
  created: '2006-03-27 16:54:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A great design would not necessarily follow what went before.\r\n\r\nWho
    said anything about great?\r\n\r\nAnyway, British is not hard-edged.\r\n\r\n>
    Univers was closer to Helvetica than your sample was to industria.\r\n\r\nAlso
    false.\r\n\r\nFor one thing note how there are numerous fonts between Univers
    and\r\nHelvetica, but none (that I know of) between Industria and my sample.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-27 17:03:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "You can board a Concorde, at least here in Seattle... (from Jan 04)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jan4
    017 (WinCE).jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jan4 001 (WinCE).jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Jan4
    009 (WinCE).jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-27 17:44:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: When I first travelled to London I had a proper map and the Tube map (diagram).
    I will admit that I often thought it would be quicker to take the tube. Now, however,
    I find it quicker to walk and avoid the tube congestion ... well, most of the
    time anyway. South Ken to Covent Garden is a little bit of a walk, but nice on
    a holiday afternoon.
  created: '2006-03-27 17:49:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I find it quicker to walk and avoid the tube congestion\r\n\r\nAnd a good
    tube map/diagram would help you make such decisions.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-27 17:58:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Who is the cute little one in your last picture Si?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-27 18:38:02'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Your plan of splitting the two sections has been done, most tube carriages
    have a central area map without the extremes (together with a longish horizontal
    representation of the line including all stations on that line), a good reason
    for this is that there simply isn't space* in the carriage to post a full map/diagram.
    (*and still keep the valuable advertising space.) \r\nThe trouble with a logarithmic
    scale is that the audience has to be aware of that scale and how it works, in
    your example, most people, myself included, have very little conception of how
    far a light year is, but to give them a map that appears to show double a five
    minute walk only for that to turn out to be twenty minutes and they might well
    complain. A cynic might say that it is not in the Underground's best interest
    for its consumers to know that by walking for five minutes would save fifteen
    minutes on the tube.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-03-27 18:49:25'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'That''s my daughter Lily (she would have been 3 1/2 in that pic). To be honest
    she wasn''t impressed with the Concorde, although she loves trips to the Museum
    of Flight - prefers the older planes and hands-on exhibits. '
  created: '2006-03-27 18:50:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Lily is a sweetheart. She reminds me of my daughter at that age (she also
    has a mind of her own :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-27 19:03:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks Chris, she has a mind of her own all right, but she seems to like
    being around fonts and font people. This past weekend we visited the fake Bavarian
    town of Leavenworth (http://www.leavenworth.org/). \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/March2006
    432 (WinCE).jpg]\r\n\r\nWhen she described it to a family friend last night she
    said \"It's a place with old fashioned lettering on the signs\" and recently told
    me, \"Daddy, I am a typo child.\" It's enough to make you blub ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-27 19:09:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That is priceless Si :-)\r\n\r\nBTW, my daughter makes puns--Surprise! ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-27 19:45:15'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>\u201CIt\u2019s a place with old fashioned lettering on the signs\u201D
    and recently told me, \u201CDaddy, I am a typo child.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nI work
    on my laptop while I commute to work. Once a few years ago, a class of school
    children boarded my tram car. They could see my laptop; I was working in FontLab
    on some blackletter project. One of children asked another one (in German)\u2026
    \"what's that?\" Some brilliant little girl said quietly, \"das ist die Schrift
    von fr\xFCher\" (\"that's the writing from the past\").\r\n\r\nThat was sooooooo
    cute."
  created: '2006-03-27 20:10:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the audience has to be aware of that scale\r\n\r\nBut the key thing is
    that those unaware lose nothing.\r\n\r\n> A cynic might say that it is not in
    the Underground\u2019s\r\n> best interest for its consumers to know\r\n\r\nBy
    which you have reminded me what I <cite>almost</cite> replied\r\nto William's
    \"The design is well suited to humans ...\":\r\nThe design is well suited to livestock.\r\n\r\n>
    prefers the older planes and hands-on exhibits.\r\n\r\nAh, a discriminating lady!
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-27 20:45:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Well, you can read Verdana, but you can\u2019t board a Concorde. I\u2019d
    say, that\u2019s a pretty good indicator of which one works better. \r\n\r\nWell,
    there was a definite problem with the original Concorde spec, but I would argue
    that the design was so good that it stayed alive and flew for over twenty five
    years anyway. Also Verdana is now ten years old, and possibly may soon be replaced
    by the MS Clear Type fonts, including Carter's own Meiro. \r\n\r\nThe basic problem
    with the Concorde is that they assumed cheap fuel, and when it was clear that
    that was wrong, they still went ahead with it. The British and French had to write
    off billions in development costs. However, when it flew it actually made money
    year over year, basically because it was so fabulous both technologically and
    aesthetically that rich people were willing to pay absurd amounts to fly on the
    thing. \r\n\r\nI live not so far from Dulles airport and once in a while we saw
    it fly over, and it was a thrill every time. I saw it a few times on the ground
    at the airport and it took my breath away. It was that beautiful, and looked like
    it was travelling a hundred miles an hour when it was sitting still. \r\n\r\nMy
    neighbor was the chief mechanic on it at Dulles, and just loved that machine.
    He said it could easily take off straight up, like a rocket ship, except that
    the passengers would sh*t in their pants. It travelled faster than a bullet at
    its top speeds. \r\n\r\nThe romance of the thing was so powerful that it stayed
    alive when it really didn't make commercial sense. So it is rightly a design icon,
    I think, in spite of the story of stupid government decisions on the specs for
    it. It reminds me of another design icon here in Virginia, Monticello. It was
    impractical and didn't make economic sense, but it is an inspiration to visit
    it, and it would be a fabulous place to live, at least for a little while. \r\n\r\nI
    certainly think that bad finances are a very bad idea, but sometimes great design
    has emerged anyway. "
  created: '2006-03-28 04:25:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "That Concorde was one dirty noisy rich man's toy.\r\nClimate change ain't
    beautiful."
  created: '2006-03-28 05:05:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> dirty noisy rich man\u2019s toy.\r\n\r\nYeah, nothing at all like glossy
    glamour magazines.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-28 05:15:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">one dirty noisy rich man\u2019s toy\r\n\r\nYes, and a technical and visual
    marvel. It could be all at the same time, and was. "
  created: '2006-03-28 06:17:57'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Thinking further on a logarithmic scale, it could only work on the distance
    between individual stations, so to make an extreme example \u2013 three stations
    X, Y and Z.\r\n\r\nX to Y is 25 minutes (or miles) and is therefore shown on the
    map as having 5 units between them.\r\n\r\nY to Z is 36 minutes (or miles) 6 units
    between them\r\n\r\nOne cannot represent X to Z as 11 units (which would scale
    to 121 minutes/miles) or as a square root of 61 minutes/miles (7.8 units). \r\nSo
    it would have to be \r\n(X to Y) + (Y to Z) \r\n(5x5) + (6x6) = 61\r\nwhich is
    a lot of mental arithmetic, especially for longer journeys that can't be divided
    into whole numbers.\r\nBut perhaps I am overthinking this, especially as I am
    unlikely to ever be offered the chance of redesigning the Underground map.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    design is well suited to livestock</em>\r\nSo you have been on the Underground
    :)\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-03-28 12:50:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So you have been on the Underground\r\n\r\nBa'a'a'a.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-28 16:03:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The worst thing about the Tube map is when you go to exchange lines and end
    up walking miles underground -- there's no way of knowing how long the connection
    is. There's a similar phenomenon here in Toronto, which has the same kind of map
    for its two-line system.\r\n\r\nA topographically accurate Underground map would
    be very interesting, as it would show the winding routes the older lines took
    to avoid properties that wouldn't allow being burrowed beneath."
  created: '2006-03-28 16:31:58'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">no way of knowing how long the connection is\r\n\r\nGood point. This could
    be in information at stations or in the trains for information on the exchange
    points it meets. "
  created: '2006-03-28 17:27:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, it should be before you even decide to go under.\r\nNot everybody is
    nostalgic for bunkers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-28 18:17:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Now THIS is a nice metro map:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/aticolunatico/4073439289/sizes/l/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-04 17:14:59'
date: '2006-01-30 20:31:59'
node_type: forum
title: Great British Design Quest

---
