---
author:
  name: londontype
  picture: 111325
body: Typefaces are collections of individual letters, so it's OK if we occasionally
  fixate on the design of individual letters, right? The distinguishing characteristics
  of  the sans letter, lacking serifs and usually being more or less monolineal, seem
  more striking than those of the serifed letter. How the letter is drawn, its basic
  shape, comes to the fore in the absence of concerns about serif shapes & directions,
  and stroke width. So what about lowercase sans g's. I love the eyeglass style (Gill)
  and don't like the Frutiger//Futura-style. Does anyone else care?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gs.gif]
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think the fixation might happen because some characters are open to more
    interpretation than other letter.\r\n\r\n<em>Note: I'm not a type designer, but
    one test that a typeface (more often than not) has to pass for me is if I like
    the way my name looks. I know that is odd, but I know many typefaces that forget
    the double-f ligature and fail to draw a nice cap W.</em>"
  created: '2006-01-31 22:03:03'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: There's something fun/unique about drawing lower case g's in the eyeglass
    style that I enjoy, in more of a display font way rather than monoweight examples
    like yours.
  created: '2006-01-31 22:14:43'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: Miss Tiffany, to your last point - for signage or titling you might only consider
    the letters that will be used (or which will be most prominent) when choosing
    a typeface. The name test is good. I have a few stock phrases that I test with
    as well. Lowercase "g" like, lc "t", uc "M", and especially uc "R" are bellwether
    letters for me...
  created: '2006-01-31 22:19:12'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Trebuchet is sort of a mess. Here's good whacky:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FontAgent
    ProScreenSnapz001.gif]\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fountain.nu/catalogue/mercury.asp\">Mercury</a>"
  created: '2006-01-31 23:46:50'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Is Trebuchet's g Koch-inspired?
  children:
  - author:
      name: londontype
      picture: 111325
    body: The eyeglass g is, of course, almost universal in serif printing types.
      The Frutiger-style g might rightly be called an italic g since it seems to come
      naturally in calligraphy and cursive writing. Some sans faces with eyeglass
      g's actually switch to the Frutiger style for italic, like ITC Johnston. Gill
      keeps the eyeglass for italic, and so does Trebuchet, but the Treb italic g
      looks really strange.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gilltreb.gif]
    created: '2006-02-01 00:49:25'
  created: '2006-01-31 23:56:58'
- author:
    name: alchion
    picture: 110619
  body: "i find the most unusual lower case \"g\" these days are in the works of hubert
    jocham's\r\nrecent Flow and Monday font families. \r\n\r\nhubertjocham.de"
  created: '2006-02-02 11:01:20'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "<em>Some sans faces with eyeglass g\u2019s actually switch to the Frutiger
    style for italic,</em>\r\n\r\nThey don't switch to Frutiger, they switch to cursive...
    kind of. :)\r\nThere was a discussion about single/double-storey g a while ago,
    about how English sans seemed to generally have double storey while german ones
    had single storey. Or something like that, I can't find it.\r\n\r\nEDIT: Found
    it: http://typophile.com/node/16494"
  created: '2006-02-02 11:17:48'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: "Thanks - an excellent thread. Some of the difficulty in talkng about this
    (and searching for info) is terminological: eyeglass, single- or double-storey
    (UK?) -story (US). Here's a nice page from No Bodoni which uses unicameral/bicameral
    as descriptives:\r\nhttp://www.nobodoni.com/gstory.html\r\n\r\nObviously bicameral/unicameral
    are best used to describe alphabets. The tdc glossary has the best term for the
    double-story g - <a href=\"http://www.tdc.org/views/typedictionaryB.html\">binocular</a>.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-02 13:56:32'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>whacky</em>\r\n\r\n:^) Cool, Stephen. It looks like a pair of spectacles.\r\n\r\n<em>Some
    of the difficulty in talkng about this (and searching for info) is terminological...</em>\r\n\r\n<em>eyeglass</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>binocular!</strong>\r\n\r\nI've
    never heard the form called 'eyeglass' before, until this thread. Always known
    it as binocular or 'double story' g.\r\n\r\n<em>...most unusual lower case \u201Cg\u201D
    these days...</em>\r\n\r\nI designed one much more unusual than Jocham's. It can
    be seen in use helping to spell my name at the top of <a href=\"http://moorstation.org/typoasis/designers/gaut/CosmicAlchemist/cosmic_alchemist.html\"
    target=\"_new\">this page</a>. This font is an upcoming release.\r\n\r\n<em>...English
    sans seemed to generally have double storey while german ones had single storey.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    binocular form is foreign to German blackletters because it isn't a natural cursive
    form drawn with a calligraphy nib, and blackletters are essentially calligraphic.
    Binocular g seems to be an Italian invention, and a typographic, metal creature.\r\n\r\nIt's
    a hassle sometimes designing one in a font because it stands out in the context
    of a 'de facto' roman lower case letter set; if I replace the binocular g with
    a single story g some observers say the set is too modular, at the same time complaining
    about some other relatively minor thing being \"disturbing\". In context binocular
    g is disturbing, or would be if they weren't a widely accepted convention.\r\n\r\nAnd
    too, a lot of type designers make a cutesy binocular g for their text roman and
    end up with something that ruins an otherwise well-balanced font. [Edit: this
    is more common in display fonts]\r\n\r\nDespite these dim views of binocular g,
    I find them irresistable as most type designers do.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-02 14:39:52'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "<em>I designed one much more unusual than Jocham\u2019s. It can be seen in
    use helping to spell my name at the top of this page. This font is an upcoming
    release.</em>\r\n\r\nAh yes, James. A fourth category could be added to Brad's
    list then: one-and-a-half story 'g', or flat bottomed 'g'. Rian Hughes has used
    it a few times, such as in <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=verity.search&font_categories=1&font_categories_search=font_name_search&searchstr=regulator\">Regulator</a>.
    And then there's his floating 'g' in <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=catalog.fontdetail&displayfontid=DF.112069.0.1&attributes.sampleSize=48&sampleText=Floating&sampleSize=96\">Egret</a>."
  created: '2006-02-02 17:04:37'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "<cite>Some of the difficulty in talkng about this (and searching for info)
    is terminological: eyeglass, single- or double-storey (UK?) -story (US).</cite>\r\nIndeed.
    And it's just as bad in other languages. I'm working on my graduation monograph
    and I had to translate some quotes from english-language books that dealt with
    this subject. I literally translated \"single/double storey\" but felt it sounded
    weird. Now this thread has reminded me that monocular/binocular might be better,
    and do sound more... respectable. :)\r\n\r\n<cite>Obviously bicameral/unicameral
    are best used to describe alphabets.</cite>\r\nBut what about ones that have double-storey
    a and single storey g? Ah, typographic terminology is endlessly problematic...
    :/"
  created: '2006-02-03 02:10:27'
- author:
    name: Brian_
    picture: 110618
  body: "Didn't Eric Gill mention something about g's and eyeglasses in his Essay?
    I don't think it was a positive thing. He didn't like that g's were used for eyeglasses..
    been a while and I don't have the book in front of me. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-03 02:47:36'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Rian Hughes has used it a few times, such as in Regulator.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    knew someone would mention that. This is one of those \"Oh my god why does this
    always freaking happen!\" bugbears for type designers. I thought I had come up
    with something truly original, then Richard and I were discussing it and he showed
    me Regulator. I thought, Bummer! So it goes....\r\n\r\nI'll second \"1 + a half\"
    as the proper name for that structure.\r\n\r\nThat floating g in Egret works:
    sublime effect. Phantom abstraction is sublime when used with restraint, unless
    the designer is Novarese.\r\n\r\n<em>...double-storey a and single storey g...terminology
    is endlessly problematic.</em>\r\n\r\nPertinent example. Binocular g is also called
    \"double storey\", yet a so-called single storey g is the same structure as a
    \"double story\" a.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-03 12:29:28'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>There\u2019s something fun/unique about drawing lower case g\u2019s in
    the eyeglass style...</em>\r\n\r\nThey're cool because they don't conform. A binocular
    g stands apart from the pack, but the form is not so different that it presents
    problems of integration. Integrating them adds a challenge type designers enjoy,
    and they give a lift to what is otherwise a regimented and conformist idea---the
    antiqua lower case. The justification for it is like the D in Bank Gothic---it
    breaks the rule and is the only glyph in the main set with a true curved section.
    Bank Gothic needs that D because of its O. Text romans need binocular g's for
    a similar reason---to defeat their modularity. I guess they help readability a
    tiny bit too by dint of their differentiation from q.\r\n\r\n<em>...monocular/binocular
    might be better, and do sound more\u2026 respectable...</em>\r\n\r\n'authoritive'
    is the word I would use in your monograph. As you can see, I'm a nomenclature
    buff meself :^)\r\n\r\n<em>monocular/binocular</em>\r\n\r\nLet's not rule out
    'trinocular'. A trinocular g has three bowls, the third one sitting to the right
    and centered on the baseline. This opens up new possibilities---why stop at two?\r\n\r\nQ.
    What kind of type designers put trinocular g's in their fonts?\r\nA. A long time
    ago in a galaxy far, far away...\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-03 14:35:25'
- author:
    name: puffinry
  body: "<em>I\u2019ll second \u201C1 + a half\u201D as the proper name for that structure.</em>\r\n\r\nSesqui(n)ocular?"
  created: '2006-02-03 15:50:45'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: More grist for the mill - Wiki (not typowiki) adds the terms open tail and
    loop tail, and correctly notes that the single-story open-tailed monocular miniscule
    of maddening mulitple moniker fame is closest to Spurius's original Roman G form.
  created: '2006-02-03 16:02:58'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Single Story - Monocular\r\nTwo Story - Binocular\r\nSplit-level - Hmmm"
  created: '2006-02-03 16:39:39'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "First, I spelt \"trinocular\" wrong. Should be \"tri-ocular\".\r\n\r\n<em>Sesqui(n)ocular</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe.
    I looked up 'sesqui' in the shorter Oxford and it's Latin for one and a half.
    The problem with \"sesquiocular\" is that a one and a half story g has one oculus
    and a stroke down the bottom, and the stroke isn't half an oculus. See the problem?
    \"ocular\" is the problem.\r\n\r\nPossibly the best term for this kind of g could
    be based on its abstract optical properties. Its like the old woman/young lady
    optical illusion. Look at my g and you can make out two figures in abstract silhouette:
    1) A nose with spectacles in profile looking to the left. The bowl is one of the
    spectacle lenses and the angled piece is the nose in profile. 2) A human figure.
    The bowl (oculus) is the head, and the angled piece is the body, arguably female
    as its shaped like a Coco Channel dress from the 1960's.\r\n\r\nSo;\r\n\r\nCoco
    g\r\nProboscis g\r\n\r\nCome up with some more. This is an abstract naming job.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-03 16:58:36'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: Regulator for those who haven't seen it:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/regulator.jpg]
  created: '2006-02-03 17:27:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I guess I will add my own \"g\" wizz to the frey. What category do these
    fall into?\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gwiz.png]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: londontype
      picture: 111325
    body: Two-story open-tailed? Or maybe split-level with open floor plan...
    created: '2006-02-04 05:21:14'
  created: '2006-02-04 00:13:27'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "A few g animals I drew last year\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gman.png]\r\n\r\nChris,
    I like the ear on Leporello. I opted for a similar integrated approach in Rhodaelian\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rhodie_g.png]\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-04 06:13:30'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: "<i>I think the fixation might happen because some characters are open to
    more interpretation than other letter.</i>\r\n<br>\r\nThis is very true. The letter
    \"g\" just so happens to be one of which has many variants, and in many cases
    may be used as a signature character by its creator. As mentioned in the original
    post, looking at the lower-case, italicized \"p\" in contrast to the \"q\" in
    Gill Sans, is another good example of a designer styling a character into a font
    signature.\r\n<br>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture 2.jpeg]"
  created: '2006-02-04 07:27:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "g is an opportunity letter.\r\n\r\nGill's italic \"p\" is quite common in
    the italics of dozens of widely-used book romans, and far from unique to Gill
    Sans. I wouldn't dub it a signature letter for that reason, and because it's in
    the italic, not the regular Gill. Eric Gill's signature letter is the Gill Sans
    \"a\".\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-04 08:18:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Gill\u2019s signature letter is the Gill Sans \u201Ca\u201D.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    would be exactly the way I see it as well. His roman GillSans g comes to mind
    second. What the \"a\" goes through as the weight increases really tells the story.\r\nThe
    italic p and q just come out of the typical caligraphic style.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-04 17:01:23'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: hmm, i have never heard that before, i was always told it was the "p", i will
    have to look at this again.
  created: '2006-02-04 20:33:02'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: The 'a' does it for me too. It looks like it's got an major overbite or something.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/farm.jpg]
  children:
  - author:
      name: londontype
      picture: 111325
    body: "\"a major overbite\"\r\n\r\nEric, I like to use the overbite/underbite
      descriptor for lc e's as well. Some e's seem to smile as well, apparently unselfconscious
      of their dental condition."
    created: '2006-02-06 14:52:15'
  created: '2006-02-05 08:22:14'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>What the \u201Ca\u201D goes through as the weight increases really tells
    the story.</em>\r\n\r\nIn the heavy weights it becomes an iconic letter design.
    Evidence for that view comes from the recent popularity of Gill Ultra bold for
    movie titles. The genre of the movies I'm thinking of is pop culture.\r\n\r\nThe
    calligraphic influence on Gill Sans italic, yeah, that's where all those book
    roman italics got their p from too.\r\n\r\nEric, the overbite effect comes from
    the robust arm extending full width to the left, a design value most type designers
    would never consider for a text font. We're always truncating it, probably for
    out of letter fit paranoia.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-06 12:39:59'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Right on Brad. \r\n\r\nI like happy e's."
  created: '2006-02-06 18:47:43'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Messing around at work and figured I woul digitze a quick 'g' sketch I did.
    :-) Some sort of display type glyph...it wouldn't survive at small sizes with
    the lack of space between the upper and lower stories.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g.png]"
  created: '2006-02-06 21:33:01'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "David that's a beauty!*  :-)\r\n\r\nIt would be very useful for packaging
    and signage design of the commercial eye-catching variety. To make it practical,
    sort out the inline to get rid of the overlap, tame the abberation in the lower
    oculus and make the whole lower storey more compact.\r\n\r\nNow make a font out
    of it ;-) Keep the upward-skewed italic attitude. That's what makes it so suitable
    for advertising---dynamism.\r\n\r\nAnother of mine:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ggg.png]\r\n\r\nThis
    answers to the convention described earlier; antiqua form for the regular font
    complimented by a cursive form for a matching italic.\r\n\r\n* Naw, naw, I don't
    sport a strong ozzie accent, as in \"bewdy\"\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  children:
  - author:
      name: londontype
      picture: 111325
    body: James - your italic g is nice, really close in spirit to Spurius's original
      Roman G. I believe your pair is a winner.
    created: '2006-02-08 14:13:24'
  created: '2006-02-07 18:06:01'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Oi! :-D I never expected that much enthusiasm about it. I got bored like I
    said and was drawing on post it notes, saw the thread and drew myself a 'g' in
    my favorite style! I hear you on the issues you said. If tomorrow is slow I plan
    on refining it. What do you mean by 'tame the abberation'? are you talking about
    the lower counter?
  created: '2006-02-08 04:48:54'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "If you reduce the height of the lower bowl and lengthen the stroke joining
    it to the top one, that will leave plenty of space in between them---whether there's
    an inline present or not.\r\n\r\nThe \"abberation\" is only very slight and worth
    keeping for flavour, so, Nyyt! forget that crit.\r\n\r\nIs the inline built into
    the glyph, or an effect added when you rendered?\r\n\r\nOh cool, you're from Philadelphia.
    My favourite U.S city.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-08 10:44:49'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<cite>The \u201Cabberation\u201D is only very slight and worth keeping for
    flavour, so, Nyyt! forget that crit.</cite>\r\n\r\nFair enough, I was just wondering
    what you were referring to since I've never heard that term before. I'm assuming
    that you're talking about the sharp corner in the top left of the lower oculus.\r\n\r\n<cite>Is
    the inline built into the glyph, or an effect added when you rendered?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    inline is actually the original sketch, but when I digitized it, the glyph didn't
    seem to have enough impact by itself...hence the added decoration. You're thinking
    that I should go with the outline shape for the glyph?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture
    1 copy.png]\r\n\r\n<cite>Oh cool, you\u2019re from Philadelphia. My favourite
    U.S city.</cite>\r\n\r\nThat's where I go to school, but I'm currently living
    in NYC.\r\n\r\n\r\nEDIT: I've kinda hijacked this thread...but how does it look
    going in this direction, Frank?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture
    3 copy.png]"
  created: '2006-02-08 16:23:45'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Go with the inline/outline treatment, but make the outer border (black line)
    and the white inline, wider so it will work at smaller sizes.\r\n\r\nTo get the
    extra width for those, rather than eating into the glyph body, grow them outwards.
    The overlap of the first sketch was part of its charm. Now that you have breathing
    space between the bowls, thicken the outline/inline until the edges of the bowls
    come close to touching, but not quite.\r\n\r\nSorry I've got you going in two
    different directions.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-08 19:01:22'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I never expected that much enthusiasm about it.</em>\r\n\r\nIt may not
    look like much, and it isn't if you judge its worth on things like modulation,
    rigour, contrast between counter and outer contour, distinctive shaping/sculpting.
    But its a no bullshit happy kind of grotesk letter with an unassuming plainness
    certain kinds of advertising design thrive on. It makes no cultural assumptions
    thru fashionable high-style or snooty appeal. Its honest & friendly. That also
    makes it versatile. The happy-dynamic bent and inline treatment gives it visual
    impact in the absense of sophisticated design.\r\n\r\nI often set text on large
    scale out-of-home ads in one or another grotesk font---I have access to a large
    collection---for subject matter that needs it, where a trendy sophisticated type
    design would alienate the target consumers.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-08 19:17:57'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "How's this look? I'm thinking if I'm going to expand this beyond the 'g'
    I should start a new thread. Thanks for all your comments...when I initially was
    working on it, the AD here walked by and was like 'that's rad' and it made me
    smile...cause I liked it too. I'm glad you're as enthusiastic about it. The enthusiasm
    gives me motivation to continue with it. There are some obvious places that need
    cleaning up where the offset path is rather pointy but for now it's cool.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture
    5 copy.png]"
  created: '2006-02-08 20:21:26'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "i think it's super sweet when the g's are different on the italic. especially
    when it goes from a two story to a more cursive g with a tail that wips back.
    \r\n\r\n\u2026so freeking cool!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gs.png]\r\n\r\n-------\r\nnc"
  children:
  - author:
      name: rezmason
    body: "It's funny that you guys bring up the 'g'- Around this time last year,
      I began to wonder about it myself.\r\n\r\nI did some research-- it looks like
      the bicameral, two-storey spectacles 'g' came about through the mingling of
      the carolinian 'g' with the insular 'g', becoming the Middle English 'yogh'.
      You can read up on that <a href= \"http://www.evertype.com/standards/wynnyogh/ezhyogh.html\">by
      clicking here</a>.\r\n\r\nInterestingly, the bicameral 'g' had at one point
      entirely stamped out the unicameral 'g'. The latter wasn't revived until the
      development of the first modern typefaces- when typographers began looking for
      ways to simplify letters, the bifocal 'g' was an obvious target.\r\n\r\nIt's
      interesting to see how many variants the 'g' has, and that so many of them are
      recognizable instantly as the same letter, without question. It demonstrates
      how language can still change in times of globalization and grand cultural diffusion.\r\n\r\nI
      personally perceive at the bipartisan 'g' as a written form, even when it's
      present in a modern font. I was experimenting with it here: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/geesmall.png]\r\n<a
      href= \"http://homepage.mac.com/rezmason/gee.png\">(click here for larger version)</a>"
    children:
    - author:
        name: londontype
        picture: 111325
      body: I take the binocular g to be warmer and the monocular to be colder (Northern
        European?) - especially in sans/non-italic. I also have an idea that when
        I was a kid I thought of the serif book face binocular g as a "real" g and
        the monocular as a phony that I could only poorly excecute. The fact that
        the monocular g is closest in form to Spurius' original form is beside the
        point...
      created: '2006-02-23 04:29:39'
    created: '2006-02-22 20:35:56'
  created: '2006-02-17 18:26:33'
- author:
    name: Goran Soderstrom
    picture: 111361
  body: "Speaking of g?\r\n\r\nThis is a sneak-preview of a new typeface, Neptuna,
    (will be released this year).\r\n\r\nThe g to the right is the standard figure,
    but the other letters are to be found on alternate places in the font for those
    who are interested in experimenting with the words.\r\n\r\nPersonally I like the
    two middle ones, the best - but the Foundry that will distribute Neptuna, prompted
    to do a regular g aswell - as shown to the right. Probably a good idea since many
    people perhaps like to use standard shapes.\r\n\r\nHowever, as we placed the alternate
    g's in the font - people can chose whatever shape they want, and combine them.
    It's quite nice when you print words with two following g, like \"begging\", \"dragging\"
    or something, and chose to use two different versions :)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/neptuna2_gggg.jpg]"
  created: '2006-02-24 22:48:50'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: ^^^ This is an interesting development. Thanks for the preview!
  created: '2006-02-24 23:36:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Does anyone else care?\r\n\r\nDude.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nThe \"g\" is the only
    really interesting character in the Latin alphabet.\r\n\r\n> Didn\u2019t Eric
    Gill mention something about g\u2019s and eyeglasses in his Essay?\r\n\r\nEzzactly.
    If he were here I think he might've\r\nthrottled Brad... But I'd be on Brad's
    side.\r\n\r\n> A binocular g stands apart from the pack, but the form is\r\n>
    not so different that it presents problems of integration.\r\n\r\nActually, I
    think the conventional form of the binocular \"g\" with the closed bottom bowl
    is in fact too divergent from the essence of the Latin lowercase. I greatly prefer
    the open-bottom binocular form, although it's rarely done right (not that the
    closed form is done right too often either).\r\n\r\n> What kind of type designers
    put trinocular g\u2019s in their fonts?\r\n\r\nMaybe Alessio Leonardi. Think Forchetta.\r\n\r\n>
    Regulator\r\n\r\nHuh, Hobo.\r\n\r\nGoran: nice.\r\n\r\nBTW, check THIS out:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/horned_g.gif\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-03 17:24:21'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: "<cite>If he were here I think he might\u2019ve\r\nthrottled Brad</cite>\r\nOr
    worse - we're talking about Gill after all!\r\n\r\nMy real question was whether
    type users like me (as opposed to type designers) care more about the look of
    a typeface as a whole, not worrying so much about the peculiar forms of individual
    letters. G is obviously a letter that people feel passionately about, which I
    suspected.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-03 18:29:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually I'd say that non-type-designers care more\r\nabout individual letterforms
    (I mean consciously).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-03 19:01:35'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Yes, when they're conscious of what they're looking at.\r\n\r\n<em>Actually,
    I think the conventional form of the binocular \u201Cg\u201D with the closed bottom
    bowl is in fact too divergent from the essence of the Latin lowercase. I greatly
    prefer the open-bottom binocular form, although it\u2019s rarely done right (not
    that the closed form is done right too often either).</em>\r\n\r\nTechnically
    you're right. The full binocular form is a stand-out. Yet, even tho it is true
    they go against the essence of antiqua lower case, they are widespread in text
    romans, and integrated readily enuff by the brain/mind. What designers won't integrate
    the brain will. Or maybe it's really a mind trick :^)\r\n\r\nThe ideal g solution
    is, I think, the Schwabacher form. It's differentiated from p-d, b-q, and suggestive
    of binocular g without seriously breaching cursive flow.\r\n\r\n<em>Maybe Alessio
    Leonardi. Think Forchetta.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks for the references. I'll check those
    out. I was imagining a tri-ocular unit arranged like the futuristic vehicle seen
    in a particular painting by Chris Foss.\r\n\r\nHrant, that horned g is cool. Not
    just the horn but the stressing thruout the rest of it---is it an example of Bloemsma-inspired
    ordered irregularity? The horn, looking like Tin Tin's shock of yellow hair, makes
    the whole thing anthropomorphic. It could be practical in a display font if you
    tame the length of the horn some.\r\n\r\n<em>I take the binocular g to be warmer
    and the monocular to be colder (Northern European?) - especially in sans/non-italic.</em>\r\n\r\nThey
    have that effect, yes.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-03-07 14:48:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> integrated readily enuff by the brain/mind\r\n\r\nI posit that we don't
    know that. There's reason to believe that -especially when it's doubled- the closed-bottom
    binocular \"g\" can cause a -minor- reading hiccup. In contrast, the only people
    who are really adversely affected by the open-bottom binocular \"g\" are... certain
    type designers!  :-)\r\n\r\n> is it an example of Bloemsma-inspired ordered irregularity?\r\n\r\nNo,
    I think it's just tom-foolery.\r\nIt's actually from an early 20th-century ATF
    face.\r\n\r\n> Tin Tin\u2019s shock of yellow hair\r\n\r\nI was thinking Elvis.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-07 16:54:43'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: "<cite>closed-bottom binocular \u201Cg\u201D can cause a -minor- reading hiccup</cite>\r\n\r\nThis
    may be, but what bothers me about the single-story open-tailed g is that it faces
    left - against the reading direction. I don\u2019t think any other glyphs (even
    a, j) do this as strongly as the single-story g. A word that begins with such
    a g is not sealed off, sort of like a layout that has a picture that looks off
    page left. The standard binocular g seems to seal off the word or at least \u201Clook\u201D
    in the right direction - to the right.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/going.gif]"
  created: '2006-03-07 19:49:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I was actually talking about the open-bottom <cite>binocular</cite> \"g\".\r\nI
    don't like the monocular \"g\" myself, although for reasons\r\nof anti-modularity,
    not direction (which is essentially moot\r\nfor immersive reading, although admittedly
    not for display).\r\n\r\nWhat's interesting though is that I had the exact same
    faux (see below) epiphany in 1998, while reading the chapter in Smeijers's \"Counterpunch\"
    about the \"j\". He wanted the \"j\" to be sitting down on the baseline; and suddenly
    I noticed, subconsciously I swear, that an \"a\" was facing the wrong way; except
    it wasn't; except it was. I figured all the letters should face rightward (or
    at least not leftward). After all, all the UC letters are like that (except for
    the \"J\", and that's a phoney letter), and, perhaps like Cassandre, I wanted
    to bring some order to the mottled Latin lowercase. I started trying some glyphs,
    but then was made to realize that it doesn't make sense; direction is moot. The
    good news* is that this aborted effort spawned my long-standing alphabet reform
    work.\r\n\r\n* Actually, really bad news as far as many people are concerned.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-07 20:14:10'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: "Most of my epiphanies turn out to be <cite>faux</cite>.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-07 20:27:02'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I posit that we don\u2019t know that.</em> \r\n\r\nWe experience it.
    I mean, I read a heck-load of text in print and can't ever recall tripping up
    on a binocular g. Once your brain has been axon-modelled by reading experience
    the integration is automatic. Only when we discuss it, as now, do we decide we
    \"know\" any different in terms of design theory. And of course \"different\"
    is not neccessarily better or worse, just different.\r\n\r\nIf it works, it works.
    But the story never ends there...I could go on.\r\n\r\n<em>...the only people
    who are really adversely affected by the open-bottom binocular \u201Cg\u201D are...
    certain type designers! :-)</em>\r\n\r\nYes. In a lot of those cases it does seem
    to be a matter of ideology, of what one believes or has adopted as incontravertible
    about Latin letter forms---about certain structures in particular. Type designers
    without those beliefs tend to enjoy a greater range of expression and wider structural
    palette, with impunity :^)\r\n\r\n<em>No, I think it\u2019s just tom-foolery.\r\nIt\u2019s
    actually from an early 20th-century ATF face.</em>\r\n\r\nIts very effective,
    whatever you call it.\r\n\r\n<em>I was thinking Elvis.</em>\r\n\r\nIn that case
    you want a bouffe bob with a horn lick coming off it.\r\n\r\nYour horn, by the
    way, looks like a shock of hair coz its facing backwards. Point it forwards and
    will become a horn.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-03-07 22:20:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, I certainly agree that readers can handle a lot more\r\nvariance than
    many type designers give them credit for.\r\n\r\nBut if you allow one letter to
    have a strongly divergent\r\nform (the \"g\", in its closed-bottom binocular form)
    you\r\nbetter be ready to leverage divergence to that extent in\r\nthe alphabet
    as a whole; otherwise all you're really doing\r\nis engaging in creative lethargy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-07 23:54:36'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "This is exactly what I am driving towards. More divergence of form, everywhere.
    I'm beyond \"ready to leverage\" this principal. I've already designed a whole
    font based on it.\r\n\r\n<em>...creative lethargy...</em>\r\n\r\nThat's what binocular
    g has become. Atrophied design with no relevant rationale to support it. Its perpetuation
    by type designers over five hundred years along with all the other long-standing
    typographic design conventions, and the extreme reticence to break those conventions,
    is the essence of type design and what type designers do. It's a lazy black art
    of compliance.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-03-08 10:30:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> That\u2019s what binocular g has become.\r\n\r\nAmong many, yes. But the
    form itself (especially in\r\nits open-bottom version) <cite>is</cite> better
    than the mono form\r\nfor readability; in the same way that the bino \"a\" is\r\nversus
    the mono one.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 14:30:13'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Quite correct. In that light, calling it \"<em>Atrophied design with no relevant
    rationale to support it.</em> is a bit harsh. It's a bizarre atrophied structure
    that happens to have advantages for readability :^)\r\n\r\nMore dangerous is the
    \"lazy compliance\" part, resulting in over-modular, over-uniform fonts.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2006-03-29 14:23:41'
- author:
    name: nickshanks
  body: "I have a g\u2010related question so thought I'd pop it into this thread:\r\nDoes
    anyone know where I can get a free font with insular g at U+1D79 ?"
  created: '2006-04-17 14:54:34'
- author:
    name: dojr2
  body: "I have spent quite some time reading this thread but it was well worth it.
    It is very thorough, except that it does not talk (enough) of two g designs which
    I favour: the sesquiocular g opening to the right & the left-facing g with a closed
    loop. I wanted to show two examples & this popped up on my facebook earlier on
    today:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/anisetteambroise_6200.jpg]\r\n\r\nfrom\r\n\r\n[[http://sphotos.ak.fbcdn.net/hphotos-ak-ash1/hs553.ash1/32245_399663741508_9755756508_4026457_6738069_n.jpg]]"
  created: '2010-05-18 21:21:31'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: "Another same structure (sesquiocular?) to magenta g in above image:\r\n\r\nCatalog:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.binnenland.ch/"
  created: '2010-05-23 18:22:48'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "For reference, that Ambroise \"g\" structure AFAIK goes back to Pierre Didot.
    \r\nSee <a href=\"http://typographica.org/2004/on-typography/the-didot-you-didnt-know/\">this
    article on Typographica</a> and also <a href=\"http://typographica.org/art/articles/elder2.jpg\">this
    image</a> linked to therein."
  created: '2010-05-24 20:29:16'
- author:
    name: '1985'
    picture: 112115
  body: Lovely!
  created: '2010-05-25 11:31:36'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: "A groovy one from the seventies:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/albag_4973.png]\r\n(actually
    from <a href=\"http://www.dafont.com/alba.font\">Alba</a>)"
  created: '2010-05-25 12:22:34'
- author:
    name: ninjin
    picture: 120056
  body: "I'm on a quest for a great handwriting font that uses the looptail/eyeglasses
    style of lower-case g. Anyone have recommendations, or even tips for searching
    for such a thing? Foundries and font sites don't seem to specify this in their
    descriptions.\r\n\r\nThanks for any help!"
  created: '2010-05-26 20:54:38'
- author:
    name: Frode Bo Helland
    picture: 112295
  body: "Hard to believe no one mentioned Dez\u2019 <a href=\"http://dezcom.com/\">Froggy</a>
    yet."
  created: '2010-05-26 21:28:45'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '@ninjin [[http://new.myfonts.com/fonts/suomi/script/|Suomi Script]]? '
  created: '2010-05-26 21:38:11'
- author:
    name: Dept H
    picture: 119193
  body: Some little g's from a font I am working on.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Quantium-g_6680.gif]
  created: '2010-05-27 11:36:32'
- author:
    name: ninjin
    picture: 120056
  body: "@eliason - thank you!   Awesome suggestion.\r\n\r\nAnyone else know of a
    handwriting font with the cool little g's?"
  created: '2010-05-27 20:14:09'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Handwriting fonts with double-story 'g's:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_duper_ot/\">FF
    Duper</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/singles/bitstream/falling_leaves_moon_ot/\">Falling
    Leaves Moon</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/fonts/downloads/fontfont/ff_providence_sans_ot/\">FF
    Providence Sans</a>"
  created: '2010-05-28 00:37:04'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: www.sanskritweb.net/letters/char_g.pdf
  created: '2010-05-28 06:03:33'
- author:
    name: ninjin
    picture: 120056
  body: "@Stephen Coles - these are cool, thank you!\r\n\r\nThe PDF posted by @Ulli
    is great... I just wish it listed which font corresponded to each number. According
    to [[http://translate.google.com/translate?hl=en&sl=de&u=http://www.sanskritweb.net/letters/index.html&ei=HNkCTN_DKpi0MMfUgDw&sa=X&oi=translate&ct=result&resnum=2&ved=0CBgQ7gEwAQ&prev=/search%3Fq%3Dwww.sanskritweb.net%2B%25222000%2BLetters%2522%2Bchar_g%26hl%3Den%26safe%3Doff%26client%3Dfirefox-a%26hs%3DlOB%26rls%3Dorg.mozilla:en-US:official|Google's
    translation of a page on that site]]: \"The PDF files there is an answer key (key
    number), but which is not available to the public.\" Bummer. I wonder why this
    would be secret?"
  created: '2010-05-30 22:37:30'
- author:
    name: riccard0
    picture: 117627
  body: http://typophile.com/node/77193
  created: '2010-12-15 10:19:07'
- author:
    name: molte
  body: Dept H, that thin weight lowercase g is lovely. Is it available at all, or
    any time soon?
  created: '2010-12-17 03:20:08'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "Always loved the g in Chesterfield by Alan Meeks\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/linotype/chesterfield-lt/"
  created: '2010-12-19 06:27:04'
- author:
    name: iridiumkitten
  body: 'I know this thread is from forever ago, but I''m trying to get in contact
    with James Arboghast, or find his fonts. '
  created: '2014-01-09 11:53:56'
- author:
    name: Michel Boyer
    picture: 112585
  body: "Here are three links I got with Google:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/40328\r\nhttp://luc.devroye.org/fonts-41395.html\r\nhttp://www.princexml.com/fonts/sentinel/sentinel_zero_cost_eula.txt\r\n"
  created: '2014-01-09 18:29:44'
- author:
    name: nina
    picture: 111699
  body: "@iridiumkitten: You you might try contacting him on Flickr, and his type
    is on MyFonts.\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/people/arboghast/\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/foundry/Sentinel_Type/\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/person/James_Arboghast/"
  created: '2014-01-24 08:06:31'
date: '2006-01-31 21:21:27'
node_type: forum
title: g's anyone?

---
