---
author:
  name: gabrielhl
  picture: 109646
body: "In [[Anatomy of a Typeface]], A. Lawson says that sometime around the 50s \"Berthold
  reissued the even older [[Akzidenz Grotesk]]\", but there's no date for the original
  release or the reissuing. I would be very very thankful if someone pointed me to
  these dates.\r\nThank you! :)"
comments:
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Identifont says Akzidenz Grotesk is originally from 1896. No idea on the
    reissue date.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.identifont.com/show?FU"
  created: '2006-01-31 19:41:11'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: Thank you!
  children:
  - author:
      name: eriks
      picture: 110449
    body: "Accidenz (sic) Grotesk was acquired by Berthold in Berlin when they bought
      another foundry, P\xF6pplbaum in Vienna. That was 1896 or 1898, depending whether
      one takes the date of the sale or the release of AG. The original weight was
      quite light, and Berthold kept adding weights, some of them from other faces,
      acquired from other foundries. Every foundry had a version of that type of face,
      more often than not available in a few sizes only. The original series remained
      quite divers, individual weights showing not much resemblance but name. It was
      mainly a marketing and naming success. That only changed when they cut (I\u2019m
      talking foundry type, with some sizes and weights also available on Intertype
      slug casters)  Series 57, and then Series 58, named for the years of release.
      These had some sizes (but not all) recut under the direction of G\xFCnter Gerhard
      Lange, who was their (freelance) artistic director at the time. \r\n\r\nI\u2019m
      writing this from memory at home, 11pm, with no chance to get to my Berthold
      specimen books. If I remember, I can show some of the versions, e.g. Series
      57\u2019s 14pt, which looked totally different from the others, no spur on the
      a. for example. Lange also had the condensed and bold weights built out for
      the family, an exercise he had to re-do when Berthold went over to photosetting
      in the late 60s. Among others, that is when he added the coolest of the AGs:
      the <strong>Super</strong> weight. But that is another story."
    created: '2006-01-31 22:33:32'
  created: '2006-01-31 21:16:05'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "You just gotta love that man. :^)\r\n\r\nAnd I agree about <a href=\"http://www.philsfonts.com/detail.html?sku=AB80096012P1\">AG
    Super</a> -- that face kicks some major booty. One of the wikkidest black grotesques
    in the known universe."
  created: '2006-02-01 00:03:26'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "Erik you are The Man. That's all I can say. I can only hope one day I'll
    be able to know that much info just from memory! :)\r\n\r\nThe reason I asked
    was because I wanted to know how old this face was when \"Swiss-style\" designers
    started using it for, well, everything. I was wondering if it had been discontinued
    and then reissued because of the increased demand for <em>Grotesks</em>. From
    your post it seems the name was kind of erratically used troughout the all those
    years.\r\n\r\nOnce again, thanks."
  created: '2006-02-01 00:03:44'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "Erik - and what about the Royal-Grotesk by Ferdinand Theinhardt? \r\n\r\nG.G.
    Lange said in Typographische Monatsblaetter 2 2003 (on page 38)\r\nthat the Akzidenz
    Grotesk was based on the Royal-Grotesk by Theinhardt.\r\nAccording to Lange, in
    1908 Theinhardt's foundry was bought by Berthold, \r\nand so Berthold acquired
    also the Royal-Grotesk. \r\n\r\nSeemann: Handbuch der Schriftarten shows Royal-Grotesk
    on page 192\r\n(it actually has much in common with Akzidenz Grotesk Light),\r\nand
    attributes it to Berthold.\r\n\r\nIs the 1899 specimen (shown in Manfred Klein:
    Type & Typographers) the earliest specimen of the Accidenz Grotesk? Is this already
    a release by Berthold?\r\n(And if so, how can Berthold sell the Royal-Grotesk
    already in 1899 under the name \r\nAccidenz Grotesk, when they actually bought
    the Theinhardt foundry in 1908?)\r\n\r\nWas G.G. Lange wrong with his information
    about Theinhardt? \r\nDid he get the date - 1908 - wrong, or is there actually
    no connection \r\nbetween Theinhardt and Akzidenz Grotesk? \r\n(Theinhardt didn't
    have anything to do with Poppelbaum, I suppose.)\r\n\r\nAre there any specimen
    of Poppelbaum which show the early Akzidenz Grotesk?"
  created: '2006-02-01 01:36:25'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>Akzidenz Grotesk was based on the Royal-Grotesk by Theinhardt.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs
    I wrote, various versions of AG came from various sources. Sometimes they took
    just one size from one foundry and renamed it without changing anything. The first
    weight was a very light Regular. They picked up a Light and a Medium (Halbfett)
    along the way. And here, too, the difference between, say, a 9pt, a 12pt and a
    14 or 16pt (the German system didn\u2019t know 18pt, but it had 20pt, called Text
    after the size in Gutenberg\u2019s Bible) was considerable.\r\n\r\nIn other words:
    sorting out which size, weight and version of Akzidenz Grotesk came from which
    source would be a great topic for a thesis. Berthold may have given some credits,
    but they weren\u2019t all that interested in revealing all the real sources, as
    they wanted to present an integrated family under one name, which AG never was,
    except in marketing terms."
  created: '2006-02-01 05:54:28'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>I was wondering if it had been discontinued and then reissued because
    of the increased demand for Grotesks.</cite>\r\n\r\nThe demand from the proponents
    of the <cite>International</cite> or <cite>Swiss</cite> was the reason for them
    redesigning the series in the late 50s. For the first time, most of the text sizes
    were coordinated, missing sizes added, and \u2013 most importantly \u2013 the
    cooperation with <em>Intertype</em> supplied matrices for machine setting. Don\u2019t
    forget that Berthold only ever cast founder\u2019s type for handsetting. That
    was ok for jobbing work (which is what <strong>Akzidenz</strong> meant in a German
    composing room), but would hardly suffice for timetables, books and other text-heavy
    jobs that the new style demanded to be set in a sans serif face. And Helvetica
    appeared the same year as Series 57 (as did Univers), answering the same market
    demand, itself going back to late 19th-century sources (which Univers did not),
    like Scheltersche Grotesk (see <a href=\"http://www.orangeitalic.com/bau.shtml\">FFBau</a>)
    et al."
  created: '2006-02-01 06:18:09'
- author:
    name: Giovanni Jubert
  body: "Not wanting to be intrusive, may I ask what modern revival of AG would you
    all agree is the best digital one?\r\n\r\nJust wondering.\r\n\r\nThanks Erik for
    the lecture.\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-01 07:40:48'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Till 1926 (Register-Probe) and maybe later too, the Berthold A.G. Berlin
    soled Royal-Grotesk and Accidenz-Grotesk both under their names und suggest the
    combination of it.\r\n\r\nBTW, the guys from Chicago are following such discussions
    too and \"trademark\" every possible name we spot on. Old thread from May 2004
    showing Royal-Grotesk as one root.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/4567\r\n\r\nhttp://oami.eu.int/CTMOnline/RequestManager/en_SearchAdvanced\r\n\r\nSince
    10/03/2005 \"AG ROYAL\" and \"ROYAL GROTESK\" are registered trademarkts of Berthold
    Types Ltd..\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-02-01 11:30:07'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "Since we are on the subject of Grotesks, here's an excerpt from the wiki
    for [[Helvetica]]: \r\n<cite>During the mid-1950s, at the behest of the Haas Typefoundry\u2019s
    Edouard Hoffmann, Max Miedinger designed a Grotesque sans serif face, which was
    soon thereafter distributed as Haas Grotesk.</cite>\r\n\r\nShouldn't it be [[Neue
    Haas Grotesk]]? That's how I knew it, but I guess it's better to ask \"the pros\"
    before changing the Wiki based solely on my (very little) knowledge.\r\n\r\nCheers."
  created: '2006-02-01 12:27:49'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Series 57 and Series 58 had been foundry type versions issued by Berthold
    in connection with the line-casting versions licensed to Linotype in 1958 and
    published by Linotype by the end of 1958 in two cuts: Regular and Semi-bold (i.e.
    not Italic). I have uploaded a scan from a very old AG booklet displaying these
    series:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/57-58.gif"
  created: '2006-02-01 14:51:07'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>Neue Haas Grotesk</cite>\r\n\r\nIndeed. I enclose some scans from the
    first specimen binder, designed by \u201DAtelier M\xFCller-Brockmann\u201D, no
    less. It is not dated, but must have been published around 1958. In the next specimen
    book from Haas, the face is already called Helvetica, available on Linotype machines
    and has been expanded to Italic and Extended weights. The weights and sizes for
    Neue Haas Grotesk can be seen on the postcard (haas03.jpg).\r\n\r\nBTW: I wrote
    that AG Series 57 and 58 were available for Intertype. That is, of course, rubbish.
    The fonts were made available for Linotype matrices. The fact that my brain hurts
    now and again could also be the explanation for the fact that <em>I cannot find
    my Berthold specimen books!</em> All the most precious books are missing. I may
    have lent them to somebody. You know who you are, so please come forward, I need
    to research the Akzidenz Grotesk story.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/haas01.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/haas02.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/haas03.jpg]"
  created: '2006-02-02 09:20:40'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: "Wow! Now there's something you don't see everyday. Amazing.\r\n\r\nThe weights
    are \"Thin\", \"Semibold\", and \"Bold\", right?\r\nBut what are the numbers in
    that table? Point sizes? This would mean that the Light could be had in 4 point?\r\n\r\nAlso
    interesting to notice is that in that big big size from the title page, the characteristically-angled
    G spur is straight!"
  created: '2006-02-02 10:48:56'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "\"halbfett\" is the German word for bold\r\n\"fett\" is black\r\n\r\nwhere
    the difference between the languages' term come from, I do not know."
  created: '2006-02-02 11:15:22'
- author:
    name: gabrielhl
    picture: 109646
  body: Dan, that's interesting... and confusing. :)
  created: '2006-02-02 11:46:00'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "erik wrote: \"was acquired by Berthold in Berlin when they bought another
    foundry, P\xF6pplbaum in Vienna\" ... \r\n\r\nP\xF6ppelbaum was in 1926. It was
    the Theinhardt foundry at Berlin, how brought the Royal and the Accidenz to B.
    in 1908. \r\n\r\nacquisitions and shared acquisitions of B.\r\n\r\n-1897 Bauer
    & Co, Stuttgart, 100%, Germany\r\n-1898-1900 Branch St. Petersburg, 100%, Russia\r\n-1901
    Georg Ross & Co. St. Petersburg + new Branch at Moskau, 100% Russia\r\n-1905 J.
    H. Rust & Co. Wien, 100%, Austria\r\n-1907 A. Haase, Prag, 100%\r\n-1908 Ferdinand
    Theinhardt GmbH Berlin, 100%, Germany\r\n-1912 St. Petersbrug Branch of Flinsch
    (later Bauer), 100%, Russia \r\n-1917 Emil Gursch Berlin, 100%, Germany\r\n-1918
    Gottfried B\xF6ttger, Leipzig, 100%, Germany\r\n-1918 A. Kahle, Weimar, 100%,
    Germany\r\n-1920 Julius Klinkhardt, Leipzig, 100%, Germany\r\n-1922 C. Kloberg,
    Leipzig, 100%, Germany\r\n-1926 Poppelmann, Wien, 50% - 50% to D. Stempel A.G.,
    Austria\r\n-1926 First Hungarien Type Foundry, Budapest, 50% - 50% D. Stempel
    A.G, Hungary \r\n-1929 Genzsch & Heyse, Hamburg 33% - 33% Bauersische Gie\xDFerei(Bauer)
    - 33% D. Stempel A.G., Germany\r\n\r\nThese acquisitions means not, the companies
    disappeared with their names and products from the marked at once.\r\n\r\n\r\nSome
    typeface names from old specimen books: \r\nps. I'm not the guy with eriks books,
    you should never borrow them. :-)\r\n\r\nMaybe someone has the first big specimen
    proof of B. from 1911? \r\n\r\n- Theinhardt Probe 191?\r\nRoyal-Grotesk\r\nAccidenz-Grotesk\r\nAccidenz-Grotesk
    breit\r\nAccidenz-Grotesk halbfett\r\nAccidenz-Grotesk fett\r\n\r\n- B. Registerprobe
    1926\r\nRoyal-Grotesk\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk halbfett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    fett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk Skelett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk breit mager\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    breit\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk eng\r\n(also mentioned among many other Grotesks...)\r\nSteinschrift
    eng\r\nLiliput-Grotesk\r\n\r\n\r\n- B. Hauptprobe Nr. 428 (different cover colors
    available) 1957?\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk mager (Royal-Grotesk) / Liliput Grotesk\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    halbfett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk fett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk schmal mager\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    eng\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk schmal eng (Steinschrift eng)\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk schmal
    fett (B\xFCcher-Grotesk halbfett)\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk Skelett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    breit\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk breit fett\r\n\r\n- B. Hauptprobe Nr. 470 (the yellow
    book) 1964?\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk mager / Liliput-Grotesk\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    halbfett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk fett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk schmalmager\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    eng\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk schmalhalbfett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk schmalfett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    extra\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk Skelett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk breit\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    breithalbfett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk breitfett\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk Serie 57\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    Serie 58\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-02-02 13:25:20'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Wow.\r\n\r\nI like AG so much and just used it for a book design but it definitely
    has some quirks and inconsistencies between the various weights - at least my
    version. Most notable for example, in the condensed weights the leg of the R goes
    from straight to curved as it gets heavier. "
  created: '2006-02-02 18:25:49'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Since there is some interest in the old foundry type specimens of the Akzidenz-Grotesk,
    I have scanned the most comprehensive booklet published at that time. The scans
    are downloadable as one large zip file here at my website:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/fontdocs/#Akzidenz\r\n\r\nThe
    40-page typesetting booklet \"Specimen No. 473\" published in the early 1960s
    documents the entire Akzidenz-Grotesk foundry type. The files AG01.TIF through
    AG26.TIF reproduce the black-and-white samples. The colored samples were not scanned.\r\n\r\nNote:
    Harvey Hunt's shady outfit \"Berthold Types\" is NOT the \"legal successor\" to
    H. Berthold AG. For more details inquire at the criminal police. Harvey Hunt and
    his shysters are NOT permitted to download these TIF files."
  created: '2006-02-02 21:24:36'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Anyone who still doesn't know the whole story behind Berthold and <em>He
    Who Shall Remain Unnamed But Hires Very Wealthy Lawyers</em> may be scratching
    his/her head after this last post. You can find additional information on <a href=\"http://cgm.cs.mcgill.ca/~luc/berthold.html\">Luc
    Devroye's website</a>.\r\n\r\n<em>I like AG so much and just used it for a book
    design but it definitely has some quirks and inconsistencies between the various
    weights -- at least my version.</em>\r\n\r\nBut that's what's so great about this
    family!"
  created: '2006-02-02 23:21:00'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "\"But that\u2019s what\u2019s so great about this family!\"\r\n\r\nHey, that
    so great about DIN? Maybe its the cold and clean look and feel. I dont like them
    much, but I have some sympathy for the older lighter cuts like Royal - with the
    strike through the UC Q.\r\n\r\nThe interesting part for me are the different
    sources, melted into this family. It's not the work of one genius, its more a
    distilled patch work.\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-02-02 23:37:11'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "Andreas, thanks for the list of specimens.\r\nDo you know in which library
    the Theinhardt Probe from 191? can bee seen?\r\n\r\nThe only Theinhardt specimen
    I found so far is from c. 1895, with a sans serif which looks like an (earlier
    and therefore a little bit clumsier) proto-version of Akzidenz-Grotesk, but this
    is not called Royal Grotesk but rather Breite Grotesque. The specimen is in St
    Bride, London. Probably this is the direct predecessor of Royal-Grotesk and of
    Akzidenz Grotesk. \r\n\r\nI wished I could upload this specimen on this list to
    show you, but I don't have Flash 8.\r\nTiffany, I just sent these two pictures
    to your e-mail adress. Could you please upload these two scans on this thread.
    I hope this works...\r\n\r\nHas anyone of you an answer for theses questions:\r\nIs
    the 1899 specimen (shown in Manfred Klein: Type & Typographers) the earliest specimen
    of the Accidenz Grotesk? (Strangely enough in this advertisment in Deutscher Buch-
    und Steindrucker' in 1899 Accidenz-Grotesk is presented as a product of both H.
    Berthold, Berlin and Bauer & Co, Stuttgart. Has anyone an explanation for this?)\r\nHow
    can Berthold sell the Accidenz-Grotesk already in 1899, when they actually bought
    the Theinhardt foundry in 1908? Is probably the date 1908 not correct? Or is there
    another explanation? \r\n\r\nUli, thanks for the scans. The 'a' without spur in
    14 pt described by Erik is interesting."
  created: '2006-02-03 01:15:50'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: Type designers worldwide are busy making modern designs and here is yet another
    discussion of a musty old sans. Did the must first form in 1898 or was that 1901?
    I've heard that it really became musty after it was left in the rain on September
    15, 1904.
  created: '2006-02-03 02:28:39'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: How many new designs, rather than revivals, since 1904 have introduced new
    kinds of excellence in roman letters? I can't think of any except Johnson's Underground,
    Gill's Solus, Lutetia and Romulus, Kennerley, Electra, Scala, and Bloemsma's Legato.
    Others might add Palatino or Koch Antiqua. Accidenz-Grotesk belongs with them,
    being the first type with its own kind of excellent plainness, and these designs
    are always going to be more interesting because more intensely imagined (even
    if by anonymous workmen) than contemporary riffs on them.
  created: '2006-02-03 04:13:20'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<cite>\u201Chalbfett\u201D is the German word for bold\r\n\u201Cfett\u201D
    is black</cite>\r\n\r\nDan, that is actually not true. Halbfett (meaning \"half
    fat\") used to be Medium, as in Akzidenz Grotesk Halbfett. AG Fett is Bold and
    there is no Black, but a Super. Black is a fairly new title, in German the weights
    used to go from Mager to Normal to Buch to Halbfett to Fett to Extrafett. AG has
    the Buch (Book) missing, since the Normal (Regular) is heavy enough. Futura has
    a Buch between Mager (literally: Lean, we stay within the food categories, as
    suggested by a \"weight\" classification) and Halbfett, which really isn\u2019t
    bold at all. They even added a DemiBold, which in German was called Dreiviertelfett
    (Threequarter Fat) See  <a href=\"http://www.neufville.com/uk/startfuk.htm\">neufville</a>.\r\n\r\nBut
    now we have at least 7 weights, so we need numbers, or \u2013 best still \u2013
    our eyes."
  created: '2006-02-03 06:51:48'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "ok, now I got the pictures ...\r\n\r\nHere's the Theinhardt specimen from
    c. 1895,\r\nwith the Breite Grotesk, a sans serif which looks like an (earlier
    and therefore a little bit clumsier) proto-version of Akzidenz-Grotesk. The specimen
    is in St Bride, London. Probably (?????) this is the direct predecessor of Royal-Grotesk
    and of Akzidenz Grotesk. \r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Theinhardt1.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/Theinhardt2.jpg]\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-03 08:30:24'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "... and this is the abvertisment in 'Deutscher Buch- und Steindrucker' in
    1899 which shows Accidenz-Grotesk. Strangely enough Accidenz-Grotesk is presented
    by both H. Berthold, Berlin and Bauer & Co, Stuttgart. (From: Manfred Klein: Type
    & Typographers)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG_.jpg] "
  created: '2006-02-03 08:34:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "This thread has wiki written all over it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-03 13:54:38'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'already done, dez. Check it: [[Akzidenz Grotesk]].'
  created: '2006-02-03 14:26:40'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nYou ole' gunslinger--fast on the draw dude :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-03 15:57:01'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>Strangely enough Accidenz-Grotesk is presented by both H. Berthold, Berlin
    and Bauer & Co, Stuttgart.</em>\r\n\r\nThat is <em>not</em> strange. On 9 November
    1897, H. Berthold bought Bauer & Co in Stuttgart.\r\n\r\nIn 1896 Berthold decided
    to release more typefaces for advertising, in the German tradition of narrow,
    black faces with hardly any descenders. The first one was Carola, a brush face
    with strong Art Noveau overtones, designed by Heinrich Hoffmann. This was the
    mother of later designs like Herkules and Herold.\r\nThe anniversary book from
    1921 shows Accidenz-Grotesk, simply stating that it was issued in 1898, and that
    \"these days one would perhaps make it look a little more modern\", but that all
    its imitators had never emulated it.\r\nI have a picture of Berthold\u2019s family
    tree and should manage to scan it by this weekend.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/berthold_accidenz.jpg]"
  created: '2006-02-03 17:23:22'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "wolfgang: Such type specimens are hard to find. Due to the two world wars,
    mostly all German public libraries don't have such old books. So my <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/17689\">two
    cents</a> try to watch ebay regularly and have some money you don't need.\r\n\r\nMy
    Theinhardt specimen have no date like most of the specimens of this time. It shows
    also:\r\n\r\nSchmale magere Grotesk\r\nEnge fette Grotesk\r\nFette Grotesk\r\n\r\nYour
    \"Breite-Grotesque\" looks very close to the \"Halbfette Accidenz-Grotesk\" of
    my specimen. The e and r are a bit different.\r\n\r\nA good place is the special
    department for type specimens of the [[Deutsche Buecherei]] at Leipzig, Germany.
    But its not really public. You  have to made an registration first and you should
    inform what you are looking for in advance. So if you hope to look around, you
    will get nothing.\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-02-03 19:11:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>here is yet another discussion of a musty old sans.</em>\r\n\r\nWell
    James, start a thread on something fresh."
  created: '2006-02-03 20:02:56'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "> I have a picture of Bertholds family tree and should manage to scan it
    by this weekend.\r\n\r\nI am looking forward to see this. \r\n\r\nIn the meantime
    to keep the audience entertained, here's another specimen. This specimen doesn't
    say when it was published, but it must have been the Akzidenz Grotesk at Berthold
    before the 57 and 58 version, which Uli posted above, was released.\r\nThe typeface
    of the 57 and 58 seems to be partly based on the version in this specimen.\r\n\r\nAkzidenz
    Grotesk von Berthold (Probe 429) Akzidenz-Grotesk \r\n(this specimen is in the
    Type Museum, London)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG1.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG2.jpg]\r\nThe
    following Typefaces are shown in this specimen:\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk mager
    (Royal-Grotesk)  \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG3.jpg]\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG4.jpg]\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    halbfett\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG5.jpg]\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    fett\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG6.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    eng\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG7.jpg]\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk schmal
    mager \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG7a.jpg]\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    schmal halbfett (Steinschrift eng)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG8.jpg]\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    schmal fett (Buecher-Grotesk halbfett)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG9.jpg]\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    Skelett\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG10.jpg]\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    breit mager\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG11.jpg]\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    breit\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG11a.jpg]\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk
    breit fett\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG12.jpg]\r\n\r\nLiliput-Grotesk\r\n(The
    picture of the Liliput-Grotesk is much more enlarged, compared to the other pictures.)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/AG13a.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nAnd
    this is what G. G. Lange (the artistic director of Berthold from 1960 until Berthold
    closed down) said about the different versions (see Typographische Monatsblaetter
    2 2003, pp 24-25) (my translation from German):\r\n\r\nAkzidenz-Grotesk mager
    (Royal-Grotesk):\r\n'A delicate, light version, which stemmed from 'the punchcutter
    of the King', Ferdinand Theinhardt. His foundry came to Berthold in 1908. It was
    always said that this Grotesk was an anonymous design, but now it is clear that
    it is actually the Theinhardt Grotesk. The Royal-Grotesk was used for printed
    matter for the King and for scientific printing.\r\nIn addition to this version,
    Theinhardt also had normal, halbfett [semibold] and fett [bold] ... The Royal-Grotesk
    was later called Akzidenz Grotesk mager'\r\n\r\n'Whereas the schmale [condensed]
    Buecher-Grotesk from 1896 is an independent typeface. Later this typeface became
    Akzidenz-Grotesk schmal fett.'\r\n\r\n'The former Steinschrift became the schmale
    Akzidenz-Grotesk. ... The Liliput Grotesk in 4 pt was also used for these purposes
    [security printing]\r\n\r\nBTW: \r\nG. G. Lange said also in this article (in
    fact, it was an interview) that Herman Zapf worked on the redesign of the Akzidenz-Grotesk
    for the Linotype typesetting machine. (Can anyone see any Zapf in the Akzidenz
    Grotesk?) The version for the Linotype typesetting machine was for the smaller
    sizes from 6 to 12 pt. The name 57 and 58 is indicating the year of release of
    the revised Akzidenz-Grotesk. \r\nI am not sure if this new version is already
    shown in this specimen. I tend to believe that the specimen uploaded by Uli rather
    shows this new version with some Zapf in it.\r\n\r\nAll in all, Uli's version
    is much more homogenised than this one. The theory of heterogenous origins for
    the Akzidenz-Grotesk looks much more plausible in this specimen."
  created: '2006-02-04 02:36:22'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "In this interview, G. G. Lange (see Typographische Monatsblaetter 2 2003,
    pp 24-25) did not mention Poppelbaum foundry at all, but he also doesn't say from
    which foundry schmale [condensed] Buecher-Grotesk and Steinschrift came. Probably
    one of these two is from Poppelbaum (?). I am only assuming things. In Vienna,
    in the Oesterreichische Nationalbibliothek [Austrian National Library], there
    is a Poppelbaum type specimen from c. 1910, but I haven't seen it yet:\r\n\r\nProbenbuch.
    K. und k. Hof-Schriftgie\xDFerei Poppelbaum. Wien V. - (Wien, Poppelbaum um 1910.)
    (ca. 250 Bl.)\_\r\n\r\nIt would be interesting to have a look at this specimen..."
  created: '2006-02-04 11:04:05'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> All in all, Uli\u2019s version is much more homogenised than this one.\r\n\r\nAfter
    comparing \"Specimen Nr. 473\" more closely with \"Hauptprobe Nr. 470\", I think
    that \"Specimen Nr. 473\" was issued circa 1966. In \"Hauptprobe Nr. 470\", only
    \"Extrafett\" is missing. All other cuts were already available. \"Hauptprobe
    Nr. 470\" came out shortly before \"Specimen Nr. 473\", presumably in the same
    year.\r\n\r\nWho needs reproductions of the various AG alphabets in very large
    points sizes, i.e. up to 60 points, should use the German translation of Ben Rosen's
    \"Typos\", which was published in 1964 in Ravensburg as \"Das gro\xDFe Buch der
    Druckschriften\", edited by Kurt Weidemann.\r\n\r\nI have just uploaded at\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/fontdocs/#Akzidenz\r\n\r\na
    comprehensive document displaying the *final* versions of Akzidenz-Grotesk published
    shortly before the bankruptcy of the Berthold stock corporation. Note that these
    old fonts did not comprise the entire 1252 character set, e.g. Icelandic Eth and
    Thorn and the currency symbols Cent and Florin were missing in all Berthold fonts."
  created: '2006-02-04 17:24:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Seeing those scans makes me long for the days when there actually were specimen
    books.  Online search is nice and all but a well printed book speaks to me.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-04 21:03:33'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: chris, have you seen the [[Indie Fonts]] books?
  created: '2006-02-04 21:05:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Paul,\r\nI have Indie 2 and love it! Very well done, the kind of book that
    gets the printers ink flowing in my veins :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-04 21:27:56'
- author:
    name: norman
    picture: 109440
  body: "Ok-\r\nSo what about the Karl Gerstner version then?\r\n\r\nOpinions?"
  created: '2006-02-05 04:53:59'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Linotype typesetting machine was for the smaller sizes from 6 to 12 pt.
    \r\n\r\nI've now also uploaded old specimens of the line-casting font versions.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/fontdocs/#Akzidenz\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-05 11:43:58'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "> So what about the Karl Gerstner version then?\r\n\r\nGerstner was not an
    accomplished type designer,\r\nas one can see when looking at Gerstner Original\r\nhttp://www.bertholdtypes.com/bq_library/90012.html\r\nbut
    he was for sure one of the best graphic designers and typographic designers of
    his time.\r\n\r\nHe was obsessed with a systematic approach to design.\r\nHis
    grid systems were much more flexible \r\n(and therefore more complicated) than
    those of most of his fellow designers.\r\nIf you want to see and read Gerstner
    at his best I recommend his book\r\nKarl Gerstner: Programme entwerfen  / Designing
    programmes\r\n(Its out of print, but sometimes you can find it in antiquarian
    bookshops.)\r\n\r\nHe also worked as a fine artist. His hard-edge paintings were
    always based on geometric  constructions, and permutation was also quite important
    for him. \r\n\r\nBeing a Swiss typographer he loved Akzidenz Grotesk, whereas
    Univers was a little bit too smooth and polished for his taste. But he did appreciate
    the systematic way in which the different weights and widths of Univers were organised:
    Univers light was 45, regular was 55, semibold was 65. Univers regular italic
    was 46, and so on - we know it.\r\n\r\nGerstner took the Akzidenz Grotesk and
    squeezed it into a similar system like Univers.\r\n\r\nG. G. Lange said in the
    interview (see Typographische Monatsblaetter 2 2003, pp 24-25) about Gerstners
    Akzidenz-Grotesk:\r\n\r\n'He let Christian Mengelt design it in his studio, and
    he started with something entirely wrong: He modified the typeface by stretching
    it. Therefore the shapes had the usual distorted curves. ... Eventually the typeface
    was called Gerstner Programm, because it was based on his concept. ... The typeface
    was not available commercially.'\r\n\r\nAn early case of multiple master and automatic
    slanting without any optical corrections, as it seems\r\n\r\nIn Programme entwerfen
    there is an entirely chapter about Gerstners Akzidenz Grotesk.\r\nI suppose you
    can see his version of Akzidenz Grotesk also in this book about Gerstner\r\nhttp://www.amazon.com/gp/product/3775790594/sr=1-2/qid=1139145004/ref=sr_1_2/002-4582731-3599244?%5Fencoding=UTF8\r\nUnfortunately
    the latter is set in Gertner Original.\r\n\r\nI do not know whether Gerstner ever
    intended to publish his version of Akzidenz Grotesk commercially or whether he
    saw it rather as some sort of experimental design exercise."
  created: '2006-02-05 13:50:33'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>whether Gerstner ever intended to publish his version of Akzidenz Grotesk</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    was used to set the book <em>Kompendium f\xFCr Alphabeten</em>, on Diatype, with
    correction stripped in with pieces of film, showing up very obviously. This is
    another one of the books disappeared from my shelves. There was even an english
    version (Compendium for Literates), but too busy to look if it still exists. Apparently
    it\u2019s been republished in 2000, but not set in Gerstner Programm anymore:
    http://www.amazon.de/exec/obidos/search-handle-form/303-7549216-3650612"
  created: '2006-02-05 14:42:25'
- author:
    name: norman
    picture: 109440
  body: "Thanks for that Wolfgang\r\nI have Designing Programmes, and knew it was
    made for Diatype (I'm old, not as old as Erik, but old), but was unaware whether
    it had been available commercially.\r\nThe Lange quote was insightful.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nNorman"
  created: '2006-02-05 16:14:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It's interesting to see Karl's mind at work in the programatic development
    of a logo--and to see the form locked up for letterpress.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Gerstnaer
    programme.png]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gerstner-cover.png]"
  created: '2006-02-05 17:57:43'
- author:
    name: rstaake
    picture: 111495
  body: erik, any luck on the Berthold family tree image? I'd be very interested in
    seeing it. thanks for any insight.
  created: '2006-04-04 21:57:17'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>erik, any luck on the Berthold family tree image?</em>\r\n\r\nSorry,
    but i'm still in San Francisco, a few thousand miles away from my library in Berlin.
    And \r\nI'm not even sure where all my Berthold specimen books are. Must have
    lent them to someone or they could still be in a box in the cellar. I'll be moving
    house again later this year: a chance to go through the boxes again.\r\n\r\nI
    will look for the family tree."
  created: '2006-04-12 07:12:54'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "A related topic is active in http://typophile.com/node/19482\r\n(on the German
    Grotesk typology and its relevance in the early years of sanserif)"
  created: '2006-04-24 20:44:36'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I just got back from some personal time with the copy of <em>Haus Berthold</em>
    in the Library of Congress. I've just posted some images from the book at <a href=\"http://www.jpad.biz/pdfs/selections-from-haus-berthold.pdf\">http://www.jpad.biz/pdfs/selections-from-haus-berthold.pdf</a>\r\n\r\nIncluded
    are:\r\n- The Berthold Family tree spread, in full color\r\n- The short chronology
    that ends the book (From a photocopy)\r\n- The AG and Theinhardt pages. (From
    a photocopy.)\r\n\r\nPlease don't ask me questions about the text. I don't know
    German, so any translation I provide would be extremely bad.\r\n\r\nI've also
    photographed the entire book, and will be putting together a  digital facsimile
    soon. Unfortunately I had to shoot the book with an automatic camera under fluorescent
    light with no flash, so the shutter speed was too slow and some pages are blurry.
    After I've had time to clean it up in Photoshop and possibly reshoot the pages
    that didn't come out (I'm taking a mini-tripod next time!) I'll post the entire
    book. \r\n"
  created: '2006-09-28 19:34:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks James! We thank you for your efforts!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-28 19:48:06'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: if you need short passages translated, i'll be happy to help (just not very
    fast, but i'll do it). not 2 pages full of text, but passages are no problem ;)
  created: '2006-09-29 18:43:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So Thiery, then you won't translate Wagner's Parsival for me in one night?
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-29 20:17:34'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "Now if someone could just translate that chronology for me before I have
    \ turn in the research paper on Thursday night...\r\n\r\nThis is a really rewarding
    bit of research, but next time I have a two-week deadline I'm not choosing to
    write about pre-WWI German typeface. "
  created: '2006-09-29 23:15:34'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: jpad, i'll probably be able to do it saturday or sunday (its 3:30AM here,
    friday night to saturday), so if you'll show me exactly which passage you want
    translated, i'll translate it. of course i dont know the print/design terms as
    exact as someone like erik, but i'll try my best.
  created: '2006-09-30 02:36:12'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "Can I say this has been a thrilling thread, I have my family specimen of
    Standard (Amsterdam Type), which brings up the point, if AG was just renamed Standard
    and \"BertholdTypes\" is now selling both, what gives? Also, Berthold big book
    in the 70s \"E\" lists AG and Standard together under AG, interesting, nes't pas?\r\nI
    have always maintained that to design with AG, you gotta have guts, cause it is
    a great family, but it is a little wacky here and again and the spacing, well
    maybe it is just me, but it is a loose cannon.\r\n\r\nBeautiful specimens!\r\n\r\nThe
    Truth shall set you free"
  created: '2006-09-30 03:50:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"but it is a little wacky here and again\"\r\n\r\nThat is a real truth.
    \ With the history of AG, I don't see how it could be anything else.  It amazes
    me that it can work as well as it does.  I still can never mix the medium with
    the regular because they are just too wierd together.  The xtra bold is fine though,
    go figure.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-30 04:04:16'
- author:
    name: Rodrigue Planck
    picture: 109713
  body: "Chris, you are right, for instance, the numeral \"1\" from regular to medium
    they defy logic to one another, are they they related?! It seems to me that regular
    seems almost taller, by sight(which gets worse each day) and they seem to me to
    be spaced very much the same, but it is a beautiful font!\r\n\r\nThe Truth shall
    set you free"
  created: '2006-09-30 04:23:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Different weights have different functions (beyond intermixing).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-09-30 05:39:35'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I could really use translations of the major events listed in the chronology,
    especially since I've had trouble with some of the verbs. Just important stuff
    like the founding or major moves/deaths/etc. Stuff like buyouts or probe releases
    I can figure out on my own. Thanks!\r\n\r\nAlso, if it's not verboten to do speak
    about it, is the stuff Luc Devroye wrote about Berthold and the Hunts accurate?"
  created: '2006-09-30 15:40:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Different weights have different functions (beyond intermixing)\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is quite true. I have used the different weights.  I just meant that the weights
    in AG do not intermix as well as Univers or Frutiger, for example.  This seems
    to be due to the way AG came about with a mixture of designers, foundries, and
    time periods.  Univers was designed as a system right from the start by one designer
    in one era so it makes sense that it would be more successful in mixing weights.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-09-30 15:55:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the weights in AG do not intermix as well as Univers or Frutiger, for example.\r\n\r\nBut
    this is exactly why the latter might be deficient in other ways.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: blank
    body: "> But this is exactly why the latter might be deficient in other ways.\r\n\r\nFruitger
      or Univers deficient? That's just apostasy! ;)\r\n"
    created: '2006-09-30 20:51:33'
  created: '2006-09-30 17:31:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You should hear what I think of Modernism as a whole.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: blank
    body: If you ever come to DC let me know, we can get tanked and crack on modernism
      together.
    created: '2006-10-01 01:35:15'
  created: '2006-09-30 21:10:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You got it man.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-01 01:46:14'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: Erik, John Kane's book <em>A Type Primer</em> states that you added the oldstyle
    numbers to AG in 1990. Is this correct? And were any other big changes made in
    1990?
  created: '2006-10-01 19:13:20'
- author:
    name: eriks
    picture: 110449
  body: "<em>John Kane\u2019s book A Type Primer states that you added the oldstyle
    numbers to AG in 1990.</em>\r\n\r\nThat is correct. But I only did them for the
    light weight, Akzidenz Grotesk Mager, and only for in-house use on Berthold\u2019s
    own stationery. It was never supposed to be released. I think that only happened
    after Berthold went bankrupt in 1993 and the library was taken over by someone
    claiming to be the legal successor (there is no legal successor to a bankrupt
    company, unless they would also take over the liabilities). BTW: We (myself and
    my colleagues at MetaDesign Mark I and II) designed all the forms, invitations,
    exhibition stands, brochures and type specimens for Berthold between 1983 and
    1993, including the revised logo."
  created: '2006-10-01 23:08:04'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "This was one of the most interesting threads I found in this forum.\r\nThanks
    for it.\r\nThis is a picture of a 84 p B\xFCcher-Grotesk (Akzidenz-Grotesk schmalfett
    as I learned here from Andreas):\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSCN0001_6559.JPG]\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches
    Bleisatz-Magazin</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-10-17 11:43:51'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "I have posted a gallery of Standard/Akzidenz\u2014pre-Lange version\u2014specimen
    scans on Flickr under a Creative Commons license:\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/28813954@N02/sets/72157622754652530/"
  created: '2009-11-07 20:35:29'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: '@ [[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Erik_spiekermann|Spiekermann]]: Thank you
    for such great content. It says you''ve been here for seven years and this is
    the first time I have seen you speak. A valuable contribution.'
  created: '2009-11-08 00:25:49'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "@ Christopher Dean: Well, this thread is 3 years old, after all. Find more
    Spiekermann on Typophile here: http://typophile.com/user/1042/track\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-11-08 14:36:43'
date: '2006-01-31 16:49:42'
title: Akzidenz-Grotesk (Re-)Release Dates

---
