---
author:
  name: George Horton
body: "A recurring ideal of book typography is transparency, which allows the author's
  verbal style to takes precedence over the typographer's visual styling. This ideal
  only makes sense when the author is not also the type designer. When an author is
  making type for his own writing he is free to make the type fit verbal style more
  closely than would otherwise be possible. Should he, then, add to the ordinary typographic
  marker for stress - the clearly differentiated italic - one or more fonts much closer
  to the ordinary roman, so close, in fact, that their perception as different would
  to the common reader be merely subliminal, in order to intensify or direct the reader's
  experience of the words?\r\n\r\nSome options: modulating horizontal proportions,
  thus doing more subtly what Shaw and Gill did in letterspacing lowercase for emphasis;
  switching the architectural forms of some letters (as in aeyg) - too indiscrete
  because in the mathematical sense too discrete, I think; modulating between historical
  traditions (ie from Neoclassical to Baroque by changing the predominating axis,
  or from Humanist to Baroque by changing the degree of variance in axis); and (my
  initial preference) massaging the subtler \"feel\" of the alphabet, as if, for instance,
  moving between <a href=\"stormtype.com/jannon.html\">Storm Jannon</a> and <a href=\"stormtype.com/serap.html\">Storm
  Serapion</a>."
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'George, can you take another shot at explaining that? '
  created: '2006-02-03 22:50:35'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Any better?
  created: '2006-02-03 23:15:37'
- author:
    name: superkhy
    picture: 111007
  body: "i'm not sure, but i think you're asking whether or not a writer, who also
    happens to be the typographer, should use a \"slightly\" different typeface (almost
    unnoticeable to the undiscerning reader) as a way of empathizing text, instead
    of the traditional \"italics\".\r\n\r\nif that's what the question is, i would
    say no. I have read books that have tried something close to this, but the change
    is from a serif to a similar-looking san serif typeface, the subtleness was almost
    confusing at times, as my eyes had to often double-check the empathized text just
    to make sure it really saw something different.\r\n\r\ni think that something
    as subliminal as the method you have mention would be disorienting, not to mention
    it might just make the page look ugly from a typographical standpoint.\r\n\r\nIMO."
  created: '2006-02-04 00:47:03'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>i\u2019m not sure, but i think you\u2019re asking whether or not a
    writer, who also happens to be the typographer, should use a \u201Cslightly\u201D
    different typeface (almost unnoticeable to the undiscerning reader) as a way of
    empathizing text, instead of the traditional \u201Citalics\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nNot
    a \"different typeface\", but a different font made as part of a single typeface;
    not \"almost unnoticable\", but actually unnoticable; and not to empathize text
    (?) but to direct or strengthen the literary response to what are, though now
    not merely, verbal effects.\r\n\r\nIt might be disorientating, I have no idea.
    But the fonts would be exactly equal in weight and at least vertical proportions,
    such that there would be no question of the abnormal fonts standing out.\r\n\r\nI
    assumed that this would be sensible, but have had doubts (on the grounds that,
    as Bringhurst says, typography is abstract code not raw gesture). These doubts,
    however, are not shared by a phenomenologist friend of mine who knows far more
    psychology than I do, and who believes, with me, that it is ludicrous that no
    author of fiction has yet bothered to learn to design type, for this very purpose."
  created: '2006-02-04 01:08:43'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "I guess the idea is based on the assumption that there is a subconscious
    perception and judgement of the aesthetic and character of a typeface while it's
    been read.\r\n\r\nThis could be too subtle to work in my opinion, it may go unnoticed
    because when the reader is inmersed in the reading, the natural thing to do is
    to try to discard visual information and rely on the prediction of the meaning
    of the text.* When the reader is not inmersed, maybe because he is just looking
    at a diagram, aproaching the title or (who knows) admiring the type, then he is
    very aware of visual information.\r\n\r\nIt's not my intention to hijack your
    thread with an argument about how do reading happens. I just gave an argument
    of why I think this may be too subtle to actually be notticed (even subconsciously).\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor\r\n\r\n\r\n*
    Frank Smith proposes an interesting view on reading on which the reader actually
    tries to rely more on the predictive habilities of perception to read the meaning
    of the text and less on the visual information because the visual system has a
    severe bottle neck, so the reader would be percieving too little visual information
    to judge the aesthethic or character of a typeface while reading.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/9736?from=50&comments_per_page=50\"
    target=\"blank\"> Look for my post about 4/5 of the scroll </a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-04 03:53:53'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Good point - though readers hopefully follow richly styled prose more closely
    than they would a newspaper. I can't pretend to be able to flesh out the differences
    in the mechanics of those two styles of reading, and in any case there's skimmable
    great prose and stodgier stuff - Ada vs Ulysses - does anyone have any information?
  created: '2006-02-04 04:13:06'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Give it a try, who knows, it may work wonderfully... or not, but someone
    has to try it.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-02-04 07:10:04'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Calligraphers apply a form of this, though more gesture than code.\r\n\r\n<em>it
    is ludicrous that no author of fiction has yet bothered to learn to design type</em>
    \r\nI suppose that technology has, until recently, been the stumbling block. In
    Ruari McLean's <a href=\"http://www.amazon.co.uk/exec/obidos/ASIN/0393702014/qid=1139053864/sr=1-7/ref=sr_1_2_7/026-4836135-4073226\">Typographers
    On Type</a>, he reproduces a letter from George Bernard Shaw on his development
    of a house style for his work (for financial as well as aesthetic reasons), explaining
    why he changed from Caslon to Plantin in his Standard Edition (because the smaller
    Caslon was troublesome to keep clean). I imagine that he would have involved himself
    in type design if he could.\r\n\r\nGood luck with this project if you decide it
    is worth pursuing, it sounds intriguing.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-02-04 11:54:12'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "George, are you looking for a mechanism that works like vocal inflection
    in speech? If so, you might consider that vocal inflection is heard, without being
    attentionally focussed-on (unless the vocal inflection pattern is affected).\r\n\r\nFrom
    my point of view the question has to be: what does the perceptual processing system
    do with the kind of variation you are describing? Can the \"noisiness\" in neurological
    activation terms it contributes become tagged as emphasis or inflection? I'm reminded
    of your reference elsewhere to Reuven Tsur. \r\n\r\n[H\xE9ctor, I'd love to try
    and sort out the Frank Smith / visual system as severe bottleneck thing. The visual
    bottleneck notion in my mind doesn't accord well with the crystal goblet ideal
    of transparency.][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-02-04 14:15:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The DaDa poets and the Concrete Poetry people tried to pursue this with what
    they wrote and the sounds they created. There have also been many typographers
    (many from the Basel arena) who have worked to visualize meaning through structure
    and juxtaposition in typography. The texts they used were typically not in the
    \"normal use\" vein and therefore don't quite come off as something you can extrapolate
    data from. This would still be difficult to do because (like measuring the path
    of a particle in Quantum mechanics) the act of measuring affects the data. In
    this case, how do you get someone to differentiate between something gained consciously
    from something gained supposedly totally unconsciously without making it conscious?\r\nIt
    may be that people (other than those involved in typography, design, and readability
    research) just read words. Changes in font help with organization for the reader
    in \"normal\" kinds of stuff (books, newspapers, reports, etc.). Using typographic
    design (a la Basel, DaDa, et al), can have a communication affect in shorter,
    more persuasive texts or artistic literature, but it seems most of this would
    be conscious or at least semiconscious.\r\nI guess what I am saying is that the
    affect you describe is more a part of who the audience is and their visual literacy
    level (along with the kind of reading--not immersive) than who the author is.
    \ The author may KNOW where inflection is intended but NOT know how it might be
    received by an audience unknown to him/her.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-04 16:51:37'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "I've been toying with a similar, but different idea: the use of alternate
    glyphs to represent phonetic values. If my thinking is sound, then an experienced
    reader of English will be able to read with little or no distraction, because
    all the letter shapes are quite standard, but a learner will be able to slow down
    and extract the phonetics from the difference in detail.\r\n\r\nFor a taste of
    the kind of differences I'm talking about, the 's' needs voiced and unvoiced variants.
    Perhaps the voiced variant has sharper bends and more open apertures, so that
    it bears resemblance to a reversed 'z'."
  created: '2006-02-04 17:58:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...so that it bears resemblance to a reversed \u2018z\u2019.\"\r\n\r\nThat
    is a very good use of what is in the reader's vernacular yet causes a new look
    at meaning.  Strangge how in Germmany the eszett is going the opposite way. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-04 20:23:40'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "H\xE9ctor, thanks for bringing up Frank Smith. One can read text at different
    rates, and complex texts on unfamiliar subjects are read with many more fixations,
    so the bottleneck cannot be absolute, but I agree that the brain seems to like
    discarding as much as possible. It might be that altering the visual aspect of
    words would cause more attention to be paid to the visual, with perhaps disastrous
    rather than benign consequences for the perception of the verbal. I imagine it's
    a question of how much two-way feedback there is between the relevant verbal and
    visual centres at the stages of processing responsible to affective response -
    and that kind of question is far from being settled in psychology.\r\n\r\nTim
    - you're right, of course, though these authors have had a while now. But whose
    prose is sufficiently impressive that work invested in learning to make type would
    be more valuable than the same work invested in learning to write? Hardly anyone
    going at the moment: maybe Martin Amis and Don DeLillo, but I read very little
    contemporary fiction. Certainly not the current rabble of British poets: has anyone
    here read Andrew Motion?\r\n\r\n<cite>From my point of view the question has to
    be: what does the perceptual processing system do with the kind of variation you
    are describing? Can the \u201Cnoisiness\u201D in neurological activation terms
    it contributes become tagged as emphasis or inflection? I\u2019m reminded of your
    reference elsewhere to Reuven Tsur. </cite>\r\nPeter: exactly. We need a Tsur
    to sort this out!\r\n\r\n<cite>The DaDa poets and the Concrete Poetry people tried
    to pursue this with what they wrote and the sounds they created. </cite>\r\nHi
    Chris, the DaDa stuff generated no substantial aesthetic response. No human can
    work up more than the most meagre enthusiasm for that kind of thing in the continuous
    experience of it, though they may value (God knows) having had the experience.
    These typographic gimmics have no close, immediately experienced relation with
    felt words, because the words weren't felt in the first place.\r\n\r\nIt's true
    that it'd be almost impossible to test the additional effectiveness of the massaged
    versus the straight text. That's annoying.\r\n\r\nRaph, your idea sounds much
    better than mine! I also love your software - very helpful for splitting letters
    in particular - but the variety in my samples is too great for the number of classes
    to be kept at the number of punches. Is there anything I can do to change that?"
  created: '2006-02-04 20:38:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"No human can work up more than the most meagre enthusiasm for that kind
    of thing in the continuous experience of it, though they may value (God knows)
    having had the experience.\"\r\n\r\nI agree. I was just using the (more phonetic)
    example to show a prior attempt at involving things other than the \"normal\"
    in reading.  I do think that sound (as in pronunciation like Raph spoke of) is
    perhaps a more likely route for success since our alphabet is phonetic. Don't
    throw away your idea though.  My guess is that you will discover something of
    value along the way no matter what the outcome.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-04 20:52:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Some different things:\r\n\r\nStraight text: no articulation, other than
    standard grammar and punctuation.\r\nText with non-standard spelling (eg Runyon/Twain)
    to indicate accent.\r\nText with non-standard spelling (eg Shizzolated) to indicate
    ... er, shiz!\r\nText with extra punctuation!!! ....\r\nText with typographic
    (visual) articulation, eg \"emphasis\" by italic, bold or caps, to indicate an
    aside (or Post-modern multiple narratives), or categoric quality (eg book and
    boat names).\r\nText with prosodic articulation, to \"spell out\" pronunciation
    less ambiguously.\r\nVisual poetry (eg Dada) -- which is akin to what you're suggesting.\r\n\r\nSo
    this is a messy business, and all I can say is try your idea.\r\nI've done a fair
    bit of writing, and sometimes use my own faces, but I've never wanted to massage
    the text as you suggest, it gets in the way too much, unless that's the whole
    point. "
  created: '2006-02-04 20:53:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">gets in the way too much, unless that\u2019s the whole point.\r\n\r\nThere
    are two different looks at type when we look a a page. The look at titles, how
    the pages looks--an orienting look. And here we notice style more. Then there
    is the immersion, after which the letters disappear, or should. My feeling is
    that changing the letters in a way that is not noticeable on the orienting look
    is probably not a good idea. It would be like switching one \"crystal goblet\"
    with one slightly different, when the wine drinker is not looking. At most it
    would be disconcerting. If it is noticeable, then the question, which Nick asks,
    is what is the point? If it serves a useful purpose, great, if not forget it.
    \ "
  created: '2006-02-04 21:10:27'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Tell me, Nick, what's shizzolation? It sounds very rude.\r\n\r\n<cite>Then
    there is the immersion, after which the letters disappear, or should. </cite>
    But some visual information retained somehow, even if only in the \"icon\", the
    momentary, unchunked image of what's been seen, might alter verbal perception.
    The goal is to manipulate what the reader takes to be purely literary response."
  created: '2006-02-04 21:29:37'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Peter, you should get the <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0898598796/ref=ed_oe_p/102-3978677-9890514?%5Fencoding=UTF8\"
    target=\"blank\">book</a>, it's interesting and easy to read. Altough it's focus
    is teaching to read, the author spends most of the pages in reading itself.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-02-05 05:24:28'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve been toying with a similar, but different idea: the use of
    alternate glyphs to represent phonetic values. If my thinking is sound, then an
    experienced reader of English will be able to read with little or no distraction,
    because all the letter shapes are quite standard, but a learner will be able to
    slow down and extract the phonetics from the difference in detail.</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    already done that in a display font---<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/sentinel/rhodaelian/\"
    target=_new\">Rhodaelian</a>. Instead of putting the phonetic shaping into alternates
    I put it up front in the default letter set using a consistent scheme that allows
    the face to be used without the setter having to make any decisions about which
    glyph to use based on its sound. The main sticking point is \"c\". Rhodaelian's
    \"c\" is half soft, half sharp, to cover soft c sounds and hard c sounds. At least
    4 alternates are available for fine tuning every letter. I threw in a stack of
    ligatures too, but no phonetic or philological ligs, eg: \"ch\", \"ck\" etcetera,
    because I think those kind of ligatures are too silly for words and only distract
    the reader, thereby reducing readability.\r\n\r\nOne day I might look at adding
    a program to make automatic OT alternate selections based on conventions of spelling
    and pronunciation.\r\n\r\n<em>what\u2019s shizzolation?</em>\r\n\r\nColloquial,
    dialectic, slang, vulgar vernacular language \"Et-cetera, et-cetera!\"*\r\n\r\n<em>But
    some visual information retained somehow, even if only in the \u201Cicon\u201D,
    the momentary, unchunked image of what\u2019s been seen, might alter verbal perception.
    The goal is to manipulate what the reader takes to be purely literary response.</em>\r\n\r\nPossibly
    the concept could work, but again, this idea goes against the notion of transparency.
    The function of typesetting---in a novel for example---is to leave the manuscript
    and the narrator's voice untainted, unaltered, unflavoured, unimpeded, to do their
    thang.\r\n\r\nThe \"verbal percepton\" is embedded in the writing and word-smithing,
    \ and largely determined by the writer. Typography is just a container for teleportation
    to the reader's mind. The smoother and more consistant the ride, the more likely
    the cargo will arrive intact. What the reader makes of it after that...\r\n\r\n<em>The
    author may KNOW where inflection is intended but NOT know how it might be received
    by an audience unknown to him/her.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly. Its up to the writer and
    the reader to <strong>decide</strong> how a text reads, how the inflexion varies.
    And since so many decisions are made by readers, a good deal of ambiguity or \"fudge
    factor\" is involved. Besides, the best authors don't use any kind of visual (typographic)
    emphasis to modulate their narrator's voice; they rely on their skill as writers
    instead. Read Hemingway. The penultimate example is The Old Man and the Sea. Literature
    doesn't get any simpler or more direct than that.\r\n\r\nWith the deepest respect
    George, I think you're wasting your time.\r\n\r\n* Yul Bynner's brusque, petulant
    Siamese king from The King and I.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-06 10:43:55'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "You: The \u201Cverbal percepton\u201D is embedded in the writing and word-smithing,
    and largely determined by the writer. Typography is just a container for teleportation
    to the reader\u2019s mind.\r\n\r\nMe: This ideal only makes sense when the author
    is not also the type designer. When an author is making type for his own writing
    he is free to make the type fit verbal style more closely than would otherwise
    be possible. Should he, then...\r\n\r\nAnd \"simple and direct\" is not \"best\"."
  created: '2006-02-06 12:09:51'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>This ideal only makes sense when the author is not also the type designer.</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    many authors have the aptitude to design a text font? How many of those are likely
    to learn the required discipline to make a text font as good as Jenson? This \"ideal\"
    as you put it is not an ideal. Its a fact of life for almost every writer of prose
    fiction and non-fiction.\r\n\r\n<em>When an author is making type for his own
    writing he is free to make the type fit verbal style more closely than would otherwise
    be possible. Should he, then\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nIf s/he wants to, sure. I've got
    nothing against the idea, but even for a writer who also designs fonts I still
    think its pointless.\r\n\r\nI don't write novels or plays, but I have written
    short stories, and I write advertising and promotional copy for a living. Please
    don't let my occupation bias your perception of how well I understand literature
    and written language, or how much I appreciate good writing.\r\n\r\nWhen I first
    started writing with a word processor I discovered typography and all the possibilities
    of formatting, emphasis etc. Like a kid with a new toy, I partially mistook the
    medium for the message and began overusing (abusing) typographic emphasis as a
    means of expression. Then I learned how to write properly and to separate writing
    from type---they're not the same thing. Emphasis and <strong>degrees of emphasis
    and inflection</strong> which is what  you want, come from the written prose.\r\n\r\n<em>And
    \u201Csimple and direct\u201D is not \u201Cbest\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nI said, \"Literature
    doesn\u2019t get any simpler or more direct than that.\" Talking about writing,
    not typography. I never said \"simple and direct\" is \"best\". That expression
    was yours and it looks like you're oversimplifying my view of writing in relation
    to typography.\r\n\r\nTypography is about clarity, not simplicity. \"Direct\"
    is not possible because of the book medium and perception of readers.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-06 13:07:14'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>How many authors have the aptitude to design a text font? How many
    of those are likely to learn the required discipline to make a text font as good
    as Jenson?</cite>\r\nVery few, but then very few have the aptitude and discipline
    to write well. Imagine if all authors of fiction were required, if they were to
    be taken seriously, to make their own text type: one could then tell at a glance
    which of them had sufficient taste, and capacity to embody it, that they might
    be worth reading. 99% of fiction would become blissfully self-cancelling, a great
    boon to the book-buying public.\r\n\r\nWhen I said that \"simple and direct\"
    is not \"best\" I was talking about writing too - and, as you say, no doubt oversimplifying
    your position. But would you say that you do believe in the virtue or dignity
    of simplicity? In imaginative writing I think that simplicity and directness tend
    towards just another set of stock rhythms and responses. Currently one sees this
    in limpid, female novels of middle-class divorce, but Hemingway is full of a manlier
    version of the same standardised starkness. As Nabokov (who did make an exception
    for Hemingway's \"lovely one about a fish\") said, 'I automatically gave low marks
    when a student used the dreadful phrase \"sincere and simple\" - \"Flaubert writes
    with a style which is always simple and sincere\" - under the impression that
    this was the greatest compliment payable to prose or poetry. When I struck the
    phrase out, which I did with such rage in my pencil that it ripped the paper,
    the student complained that this was what teachers had always taught him: \"Art
    is simple, art is sincere.\" Someday I must trace this vulgar absurdity to its
    source. A schoolmarm in Ohio? A progressive a-s-s in New York? Because, of course,
    art at its greatest is fantastically deceitful and complex.'"
  created: '2006-02-06 14:20:30'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Very few, but then very few have the aptitude and discipline to write
    well. If all authors of fiction were required, if they were to be taken seriously,
    to make their own text type, one could tell at a glance which of them had sufficient
    taste, and capacity to embody it, that they might be worth reading; 99% of fiction
    would become blissfully self-cancelling, a great boon to the book-buying public.</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    scenario could never be practical. Publishing doesn't work that way. Economic
    realities are involved. Like Hollywood film production where the movies that get
    made have nothing to do with making good films, but are instead dictated by union
    quotas for employment of production staff, the box office draw-power of stars,
    and the popular appeal of high-concept storylines fleshed out in clich\xE9-ridden
    scripts by bad acting. \r\n\r\nMarket appeal and popular demand are the main criteria
    publishers use for which manuscripts they publish. Book publishing does not thrive
    on high quality literature, but low quality junk that sells in large numbers.
    Happily that creates the prosperity that allows quality literature to be published
    on a small scale, to the delight of people like us.\r\n\r\nDiscounting the discipline
    and craft part of font making for a moment; Judging a person's ability as a writer
    by their aesthetic prowess in designing a text font is not realistic. The best
    writers generally aren't designers. Would you really judge a writer by his ability
    as a type designer? Or a classical violinist by his ability to make a beautiful-looking,
    blissful-sounding violin? The guy is a musician, not a carpenter.\r\n\r\nBacktracking
    for a moment;\r\n\r\n<em>...one could tell at a glance which of them had sufficient
    taste...</em>\r\n\r\nYou and I could, but most of the book-buying public couldn't.
    Some printers and typesetters have good grasp of which text fonts are beautiful
    and practical, and some I've met haven't got a clue and don't care---they're only
    setting type to earn money, not to be good practitioners of the art. Then there's
    publishers, the business boffins at the top of the pile who mostly aren't aesthetes
    or fans of type design. Their first love is money.\r\n\r\n<em>...99% of fiction
    would become blissfully self-cancelling, a great boon to the book-buying public</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    would wipe out 99% of the publishing industry. \r\n\r\n<em>I don\u2019t take to
    be more than cousin to that which Nabokov describes</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not quite
    sure what you mean.\r\n\r\nTo clarify, I advocate simplicity of writing technique---word-smithing---as
    the basis or starting point for good writing. I love the simplicity of Hemingway,
    and equally the complex technical precision of Poe, as well as the deft prose
    of Philip K. Dick's mainstream novels, and everything in between, as long as it
    is artful prose.\r\n\r\n<em>...art at its greatest is fantastically deceitful
    and complex</em>\r\n\r\nSome of it, yes. Some art is very simple and direct. Nabokov's
    statement focuses on the mechanism of great art, <strong>how</strong> it works
    its magic on the spectator. But what of the effect of art? In my view, art has
    redeeming qualities. It makes us and the world whole again thru a process of redemption.
    Literature without that quality is hack work, not art.\r\n\r\nGeorge, I'm sorry
    if my comment, \"I think you're wasting your time.\" upset you. It's only my view,
    only what \"I think\". William, Nick and others have expressed their doubts, but
    with benevolence by adding, Don't let us discourage you, try it. I'm rather blunt,
    but a strong believer in relativism. All points of view are valid for the individuals
    who hold them. So don't let me put you off either :-)\r\n\r\nNote: some of the
    words in this post have been used before.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-06 15:53:26'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>But would you say that you do believe in the virtue or dignity of simplicity?</em>\r\n\r\nI
    think you're intellectualizing the issue, and needlessly so. I don't give a hoot
    about the \"dignity\" of simplicity. That's an example of prosletyzing; What's
    dignity got to do with it? The 'virtue' of simplicity, if you like, is that a
    writer can be poetic, spinning rich, informative prose, without digressing or
    introducing elements that don't advance the narrative. Economy of means. Do it
    well and the word-smithing becomes invisible.\r\n\r\nIf I advocate simplicity
    then must I ascribe some virtue to it. That's implicit.\r\n\r\n<em>In imaginative
    writing I think that simplicity and directness tend towards just another set of
    stock rhythms and responses</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, sometimes but not always. In the
    hands of certain writers it can happen. They get lazy and stop trying, pressing
    the keys but no longer articulating. The best analogy I can make is again with
    movies. Reknowned critic of actors David Shipman once wrote of Charles Bronson,
    \"...Now that he was a star he was no longer required to act.\"\r\n\r\nTruely
    creative and imaginative writers are able to prevent the decay of their prose
    into stock rhythms and devices. Hemmingway did it with forceful, almost blinding
    emotional wisdom and clarity of voice in the one about the big fish. Philip K.
    Dick did it with the uncanny perceptiveness of his characters as they think aloud,
    combined with neat and skillful control of suggestion, and cinematic, fluid scenery.
    Dick was unbelievably clever in a philosphical way.\r\n\r\nNote: Some of the words
    in this post have been used before, but this time I used a thesaurus.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-06 16:25:16'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I automatically gave low marks when a student used the dreadful phrase
    \"sincere and simple\"</em>\r\n\r\nNabokov was essentially right. That view can
    be likened to the proverb, \"You can be sincere and still be stupid.\"\r\n\r\nAnd
    its so true. All the guileless people with the best intentions. \r\n\r\nj a m
    e s"
  created: '2006-02-06 17:35:35'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Thanks for your clarifications James.\r\n\r\n<cite>That scenario could never
    be practical.</cite>\r\nNaturally it would cause economic meltdown, but I think
    after the huddled remainder of humanity came out of the caves the the world would
    be a better place. When I lead an army on London, job number one will be a total
    and rigid ban on advertising, which would of course have still more disastrous
    effects, but sunny results for human life. \r\n\r\n<cite>Happily that creates
    the prosperity that allows quality literature to be published on a small scale,
    to the delight of people like us.</cite>\r\nBut the junk - in which I'd gladly
    include most of our English Faculties' reading lists - is still read and still
    noxious. What a contribution to civilisation it would be to destroy all copies,
    including mental, of, say, 'Lady Chatterley's Lover' - imagine hired snipers swinging
    into the Library of Congress, trained monkeys sorting rapidly through the underground
    stacks of the Bodleian, the blackmail of publishers and the manipulation of virii.
    It'd be great.\r\n\r\nYou're right about the ends of art being effects not means;
    but I think popular views of how really good writing gets done are enormously
    inaccurate (\"no unnecessary words\" etc - try that on Wordsworth's \"thoughts
    that do lie too deep for tears\", in which \"do\" is crucial). Cognitive effects,
    including affects, arise from each of the four aspects of verbal art: style as
    juxtaposition in working memory, structure as association between stylistic effects
    in long-term memory, narrative as story-sequencing and world-building for its
    beauties. The holistic effect of a sense of redemption is, I think, a little more
    closely defined as the imagination of a common culture, in which what it is right
    to feel (and thus say and do) in situations analogous to some we experience in
    reality is not in doubt. Such a common culture cannot exist in a consequentialist
    and agnostic society, but the vision of it provides real consolation. Just as
    important, though, is immediate pleasure in highly worked writing, which can potentially
    be intenser than that in invisibly smithed stuff; though I'm very glad to hear
    that you don\u2019t give a hoot about the \"dignity\" of simplicity, do you really
    prefer the experience of reading Hemingway to that of reading Nabokov? Fair enough
    if you do.\r\n\r\nFinally, you didn't upset me in the least, I just thought you
    hadn't read my initial post."
  created: '2006-02-06 18:33:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "George, your idea won't fly according to conventional typographic wisdom.\r\nHowever,
    you should just go ahead and do it, because it's contemporary, post-modern, art.\r\nThe
    meta-data is extremely important in this kind of work. (An expression of sincere
    intent for the critics to chew over, among other things.)\r\nIt's like Matthew
    Herbert's protest dance music, where you'd never know by listening that the beats
    are made from modified recordings of organically-raised chickens.\r\nBut it makes
    a difference -- or I wouldn't be mentioning it here.\r\n\r\nSpeaking of artists
    who make their own tools, LettError."
  created: '2006-02-06 18:39:23'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>it\u2019s contemporary, post-modern, art. The meta-data is extremely
    important in this kind of work.</cite>\r\nOh dear, what a pity it is that I hate
    that kind of thing! If there's one thing you'll never see me doing, it's protest-dancing."
  created: '2006-02-06 18:53:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Does that mean you are too chicken to dance :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-06 19:30:13'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>When I lead an army on London, job number one will be a total and rigid
    ban on advertising, which would of course have still more disastrous effects,
    but sunny results for human life.</em>\r\n\r\nMoney makes the world go round.
    Commerce creates prosperity. Without prosperity, human condition becomes degraded.
    What kind of sunny results do you have in mind? It all sounds a bit too idealistic,
    and naive.\r\n\r\n<em>But the junk - in which I\u2019d gladly include most of
    our English Faculties\u2019 reading lists - is still read and still noxious.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    and I know its crap, but the people who read and enjoy the junk cherish it for
    its redeeming effect---on them. All points of view are valid. Its not for you,
    so leave it. You can't destroy another person's universe in favour your own. Bad
    literature is their prerogative. Would you like a horde of philistines to destroy
    the works of art that enrich your soul?\r\n\r\nTolerance, please. To quote Hrant,
    \"Don't reject, assimilate.\"\r\n\r\n<em>I think popular views of how really good
    writing gets done are enormously inaccurate (\"no unnecessary words\" etc - try
    that on Wordsworth\u2019s \"thoughts that do lie too deep for tears\", in which
    \"do\" is crucial)</em>\r\n\r\nThe simple approach is based on a minimum of (not
    zero) superfluous words, and its only a guideline, not an inflexible rule. Your
    interpretation is too literal. In your Wordsworth example, \"do\" helps advance
    the narrative, so its justified.\r\n\r\nRegarding popular views on writing, I
    don't subscribe to them. My views on literature are my own. I often debunk what
    I call, \"popular wisdom\" of the popular press, pop culture gurus, popular artists,
    my next door neighbours---those kinda uninformed people.\r\n\r\nBeware of recieved
    ideas. Like Nick, I'm skeptical of theorists and intellectuals who aren't practitioners.
    They get it wrong too often.\r\n\r\n<em>Just as important, though, is immediate
    pleasure in highly worked writing, which can potentially be intenser than that
    in invisibly smithed stuff.</em>\r\n\r\nI'm ecstatic about Poe for that reason---very
    much a writer's writer. The rich detail and complexity, palpable tactility, technical
    virtuosity.\r\n\r\n<em>...do you really prefer the experience of reading Hemingway
    to that of reading Nabokov?</em>\r\n\r\nNo. Where did I say that? And why the
    comparison between those two? I think you're projecting and inferring things between
    the lines that aren't there.\r\n\r\nHave you studied philosphy?\r\n\r\nj a m e
    s"
  created: '2006-02-06 20:03:51'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Oh dear, what a pity it is that I hate that kind of thing! If there\u2019s
    one thing you\u2019ll never see me doing, it\u2019s protest-dancing.</em>\r\n\r\nOne
    way of keeping an open mind is to do things you wouldn't normally consider doing,
    go places you wouldn't normally go. You might be pleasantly surprized.\r\n\r\nDon't
    reject---assimilate.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-06 20:07:02'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Oh dear, what a pity it is that I hate that kind of thing!\r\n\r\nWhile James
    was posting his replies, I was making my way through the three letters of a friendly
    punctuated: Yes![img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-02-06 20:19:51'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Interesting idea, George. The easiest way to see what will happen is to do
    it. I am all for it. If you can't write your own words, then find someone who
    can and will. Keep us posted! \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-02-06 21:03:24'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hiya James, \r\n<cite>What kind of sunny results do you have in mind?</cite>\r\nThe
    reclamation of consciousness from sellers with advertising budgets.\r\n\r\n<cite>why
    the comparison between those two?</cite>\r\nJust an example from the materials
    at hand.\r\n\r\n<cite>Don\u2019t reject, assimilate... Have you studied philosphy?</cite>\r\nYou
    can't assimilate both A and \xACA. I have taught myself a smattering of philosophy
    (and a good deal of political philosophy, the ugly sister), but I've just finished
    reading English at Oxford.\r\n\r\n<cite>One way of keeping an open mind is to
    do things you wouldn\u2019t normally consider doing, go places you wouldn\u2019t
    normally go. You might be pleasantly surprized.</cite>\r\nNonsense! I've worn
    baggier trousers, at more depraved squat parties, than many people have had hot
    dinners. I have made an album, if not of protest dance music, then at least of
    dance music. I have been a Socialist. My views, on this experience, are now of
    the most swingeingly atavistic kind.\r\n\r\n<cite>Would you like a horde of philistines
    to destroy the works of art that enrich your soul?</cite>\r\nWhile my soul is
    safe, those of the more impressionable undergraduates are certainly endangered
    by academic philistines. It would be pleasant if some means of interfering with
    the absorption of Derridean nihilism could be found; as it is, every practical
    analysis of real affairs and real art that these innocents make will become faulty
    and disheartening.\r\n\r\nThank you, Peter, for your long Yes! And thanks Kris."
  created: '2006-02-06 21:42:51'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: 'George, perhaps you misunderstood the import of my comment. I meant to say:
    yes it is a pity. (I wasn''t being ironic--I was echoing James. Let the impressionable
    undergraduates dive in. The water may be rougher going than it''s ever been, but
    it''s a blast. Derrida has his uses. I''m glad to have passed through the refiner''s
    deconstructionist fires. Our skies are overcast with false certainties.) [img:sites/default/files/old-images/]'
  created: '2006-02-06 22:16:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Nick actually wrote "protest dance music," a kind of music presumably, rather
    than "protest dance," but this is such an inspired concept that it has brightened
    my day thinking of what <a href="http://www.matthewherbert.net/">this guy</a>
    would look like doing an earnest "protest dance" in front of the Houses of Parliament.
    I can hear the news report: "Waltz, Cha-Cha, Fox Trot, Tango, Rhumba, Swing--and
    now the new, most thrilling of all--let''s all do it--the Protest. '
  created: '2006-02-06 22:17:26'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>The water may be rougher going than it\u2019s ever been, but it\u2019s
    a blast...Our skies are overcast with false certainties.</cite>\r\nNot on English
    courses, at least in my experience, is it now generally a blast. The range of
    focus, and of analytical tools, on these courses is astonishingly narrow, and
    the pressure to confine one's interests and opinions to what's on offer very great.
    Capitalised Literary Theory in all its common forms relies on one psychology of
    literary production (somewhere in the artist's head, power puts on the mask of
    culture) and three of reception (the reader naively assents to, or bravely deconstucts
    the coded messages of the Foucauldian paranoid; or he finds signification endlessly
    postponed, leaving the text a void), none of which is remotely convincing. But
    these \"false certainties\" are repeated so often, by people who explicitly deny
    the uses of both argument and evidence against their positions, that they are
    often believed; and beliefs have force, here for evil. What possible uses does
    Derrida have? What single paragraph of his have you found good? I'd love to see
    it.\r\n\r\nArt that needs meta-data is rhetoric not invention, because it relies
    on high-level, after-the-fact conceptual consideration. Protest art is obviously
    rhetoric rather than invention. I want arguments laid down with a decent attempt
    to list premises, explain method and give deductive or inductive arguments; and
    I want art unburdened with the freight of opinion that will, a few centuries down
    the line, look hopelessly moth-eaten. Arguments are arguable, so probably (let's
    face it) wrong; and error, for me, is both foreign and corrosive to artistic invention.
    To avoid opinionising altogether - to achieve impersonality - is hard but doable;
    the trick was pulled off by Shakespeare, who eliminated the narrator's voice and
    ensured that all opinions expressed were contradicted elsewhere."
  created: '2006-02-06 23:13:52'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "The fact that <em>final</em> or <em>full</em>--for this is closer to what
    is claimed--signification is endlessly postponed does not leave the text a void,
    it leaves it open to a continuous and fertile play of signification. That Literary
    Theory sometimes renegs on this is not Derrida or Foucault's problem. Also, I
    am not all that familiar with how Foucault has been applied in Lterary Theory,
    but (for instance) in it's domain (the history of science) I find Georges Canguilhem's
    Foucaultian <em>The Normal and the Pathological</em>, monumentally enlightening.)\r\n\r\nI
    do not have a Derridaian text ready to hand. It is the force of his  accumulated
    arguments that I find, at least for the most part, compelling. And this is part
    of what they add up to: \"Nothing (at least nothing finite) is a Spinozistic substance
    that exists in itself and is conceived through itself. Everything is and is understood
    through it's others. The importance of this for cultural theory is that it helps
    to underscore the radical relativity of everything finite, and thus of all cultural
    processes and artifacts. They are and they mean only in contexts they neither
    create nor control. And since these contexts are in continuous historical flux,
    the being and the meaning of culture and it's components is never final or finished.\"
    (Merold Westphal in \"Deconstruction and Christian Cultural Theory: An Essay on
    Appropriation\")[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]\r\n\r\nDid Shakespeare really
    acheive impersonality? Or was his narrative voice large enough to embrace the
    tug of contradictory perspectives? Are you acheiving Shakespearean impersonality
    in your dismiss of post modernism?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-02-07 01:36:21'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Thanks Peter! \r\n<cite>The fact that final or full\u2014for this is closer
    to what is claimed\u2014signification is endlessly postponed does not leave the
    text a void, it leaves it open to a continuous and fertile play of signification.</cite>\r\nOK
    (though a preference for the fertile and playful in deconstruction was a hangover
    from Barthes and almost forgotten in the grey labyrinth of later Derrida). But
    the notion of a full signification is philosophically suspect, as the notion of
    a final signification is not. For what is a partial signification? There is only
    signification tout court as a mental event - a change of qualities in the substance
    of mind. As for final signification, the idea that mind is not static is no great
    revelation.\r\n<cite>I am not all that familiar with how Foucault has been applied
    in Lterary Theory</cite>\r\nIf you knew what had been done in his name... But
    Foucault was certainly unreliable in the extreme as a historian of science. His
    writing on medieval matters, specifically its treatment of madness, is at the
    level of a Ruskin or a Morris in its disregard for data, and the Laingian view
    of the madman as a corrupt world's last innocent, which underlies Foucault's stuff,
    has led to innumerable failures to treat schizophrenics. Again, I have personal
    experience of this.\r\n\r\n<cite>Nothing (at least nothing finite) is a Spinozistic
    substance that exists in itself</cite>\r\nWhy not? \r\n<cite>and is conceived
    through itself. </cite>\r\nNo problem with the second half.\r\n<cite>They are
    and they mean only in contexts they neither create nor control.</cite>\r\nI see
    no reason to doubt that things exist irrespective of all contexts except the existing
    universe. The contexts in which things signify are those of the brain and the
    mind (if you don't like dualism forget the latter; but the context of the brain
    implies that a number of rules of thumb put forward by psychology now or in the
    future can best explain in detailed ways the complex relationship between the
    sign that is held to signify and the signification that is the brain's response).\r\n\r\n<cite>Did
    Shakespeare really acheive impersonality? Or was his narrative voice large enough
    to embrace the tug of contradictory perspectives?</cite>\r\nBy his impersonality
    I mean his ability to make plausible his presentations of varying opinions such
    that one cannot identify his own opinion.\r\n<cite>Are you acheiving Shakespearean
    impersonality in your dismiss of post modernism?</cite>\r\nNo, and I'm not aiming
    for it here, I'm arguing (or at least engaging in dogmatics). Such argument leaves
    me feeling still more strongly the pointlessness of including argument in art.
    I realise that my very formulations scream \"naive\" to the sophisticated post-Theory
    reader, but I have examined these things with care, and found to my real surprise
    that these plain positions seem to me true.\r\n\r\nWould it be impertinent of
    me to recommend a book I read a week ago, which proposes much my view of culture?
    Scruton's too keen on Leavis and insufficiently staunch in sticking up for aesthetic
    pleasure for the match to be perfect, but he's still wonderful: <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1890318477/ref=ed_oe_h/002-7878830-8000062?%5Fencoding=UTF8\">Modern
    Culture</a>. "
  created: '2006-02-07 02:25:42'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"I have examined these things with care, and found to my real surprise that
    these plain positions seem to me true.\"\r\n\r\nGeorge, we could happily go back
    and forth for hours and it would probably lead somewhere, but I have to limit
    myself, so for now I have to say: I've not been so fortunate.\r\n\r\n\r\nI'll
    check out Scruton.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-02-07 03:44:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'George, I''m delighted to see that an undergraduate in English does not buy
    the relativist poison that is peddled in ''literary theory'', the most illiberal
    and irrationalist corner of academia. Congratulations on coming though without
    getting infected. Just going back to the old guys--your ''atavisim'' as you call
    it--is I trust you recognize not enough. Addressing living problems and creatively
    building upon and in some cases revising past ideas is the way to progress. '
  created: '2006-02-07 04:01:37'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Literary theory has never had a golden age, it's true, I think because a
    psychology of literary response has never been (and even now is insufficiently
    mature to be more than) its architektonikos; but Tsur has got surprisingly far,
    and with an admixture of Frye, Nabokov, Richard Swinburne and Scruton I think
    a perfectly respectable literary theory can be managed. \r\n\r\nThanks for checking
    out Scruton, Peter."
  created: '2006-02-07 12:45:56'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Back to the initial topic. For what it is worth George, I'm offering some
    design work of mine as a practical suggestion.\r\n\r\nIf you started with an antiqua-based
    model for your main type design, any major changes to the antiqua letter structures
    will likely distract the reader too much. For example;\r\n\r\nantiqua \"y\" >
    cursive (upright) or blackletter \"y\"\r\nantiqua \"v\" > cursive (upright) or
    blackletter \"v\"\r\ndouble story \"a\" > cursive monocular \"a\"\r\nbinocular
    \"g\" > cursive monocular \"g\"\r\n\r\nRuling out that kind of restructuring leaves
    a few other axes that might be modulated for subtler changes;\r\n\r\nstressing\r\nproportion\r\ncomponent
    ratios\r\nweight\r\ntracking\r\n\r\nSmall variations in tracking and weight seem
    the most promising, while variations in stressing & proportion would have to be
    strictly limited to avoid messing up readability.\r\n\r\nWhat the flying fish
    do I mean by <strong>component ratios</strong>? The size of bowls in relation
    to stems, ascender and descender lengths, and the bowl size of individual letters
    in relation to each other.\r\n\r\nThis sample shows a sans serif I'm working on---in
    a primitive stage of development. Sorry its too wide for the Typophile page.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/one_mans_poison.png]\r\n\r\nHomely-looking
    isn't it? We can forgive that because the font's ambition is to be a casual text
    sans, albeit with enhanced readability.\r\n\r\nPretend it's an antiqua type with
    serifs in the usual positions that departs from Griffo's model in only two areas---the
    \"g\" is monocular rather than binocular, and the \"w\" is cursive.\r\n\r\nKeep
    the \"g\" structure as it is, and pretend the \"w\" is an angular antiqua model,
    mmmkay?\r\n\r\nCheck the \"g\", \"p\", \"q\" and \"y\". Those particular letters
    utilize the principal of ratios to determine their bowl sizes. This is aimed at
    increasing differentiation between similar letters to create more distinctive
    word pictures, and in turn increase readability. In one word---demodularization.\r\n\r\nI
    wonder if component ratios could be a useful form of modulation for your concept
    George. Binocular \"g\" should support variable ratios too, if you were to use
    that form instead of the monocular form shown here.\r\n\r\nA book roman in a range
    of fine divisions of weight might have applications for emphasis, but would need
    high quality printing to make it effective, and tight quality control over a print
    run to keep it viable; small variations in press gain could defeat subtle variations
    in weight used in deifferent parts of a book.\r\n\r\nTracking modulation is already
    a proven means of emphasis and control of\r\nr e a d&nbsp; s p e e d, so it wouldn't
    hurt to try it again.\r\n\r\nIf you can succeed in designing the kind of type
    system you imagine, the main stumbling block would be the task of convincing publishers
    to adopt it and print appreciable quantities of books. You also need sympathetic
    authors to put up works to be frankensteined. Then how do you go about working
    with these authors to decide exactly how their texts are treated? Getting them
    interested in typography could be a long and complicated affair with potentially
    sticky politico-aesthetic disputes. \r\n\r\nAssuming those problems can be solved
    and don't interfere with the management and logistics of the publishing process,
    publishers probably would not care how it all happens as long as the technical
    process is viable and editions sell in decent quantities.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-07 17:12:45'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Hi James, your sans is wonderful, and the idea of manipulating component ratios
    sounds a good one. I was really just thinking of introducing these subliminally
    perceived differences into type made at some stage for my own fiction, so there
    shouldn't be too many politico-aesthetic disputes; but maybe, as you've hinted,
    prose style becomes something else, less pure and less traditional, when given
    typographic backup for its effects. Prose is words, paragraphing and punctuation,
    and there is something pleasant about that constriction, as in type design the
    conventional nature of a script's forms is pleasantly constrictive.
  created: '2006-02-07 17:34:23'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>type made at some stage for my own fiction</em>\r\n\r\nAh, then that's
    a different kettle of fish :^)\r\n\r\nCalligraphy might offer a more immediate
    means which you could manipulate directly, at will, and a greater range of expression
    than type.\r\n\r\n<em>constriction</em>\r\n\r\nDiscipline. Every art form has
    some kind of discipline that frees the artist to concentrate on articulation.
    Bending and pushing the limits of discipline sometimes expands the discipline.\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-08 10:02:38'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "JA: \"Every art form has some kind of discipline that frees the artist to
    concentrate on articulation. Bending and pushing the limits of discipline sometimes
    expands the discipline.\"\r\n\r\n[bending this]\r\nEvery praxis has some kind
    of discipline that frees the practioner to concentrate on articulation. Concentration
    on articulation sometimes produces norm violations that expand the discipline.
    In type-making, the persistence, through imitation, of robust (in perceptual processing
    terms) norm-violations produces typographical history.\r\n\r\n(just my way of
    saying: right!)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-02-08 21:25:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Calligraphy might offer a more immediate means which you could manipulate
    directly, at will, and a greater range of expression than type.\"\r\n\r\nIs that
    so?  Then for total freedom of expression you can just draw pictures. But if the
    issue is free but clear expression, e.g. if you wanted to get anything done in
    business, or court or a thousand other things, before type, you needed a disciplined
    scribe or no one would be able to read it. Type, on the other hand, in expressing
    through changing mechanisms and tastes, has taken on a wide range of forms, many
    of them totally non-Calligraphic, in the successful service of crystal clear expression.
    And, today that mechanism can use type pretending to be most nearly every style
    of writing...\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-08 22:03:36'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Is that so?</em>\r\n\r\nDavid, good point. I got the \"greater range
    of expression\" part wrong. I oversold. It was just a thought---looking for ways
    George's idea might be made to work.\r\n\r\n<em>But if the issue is free but clear
    expression...</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not certain that is the issue---or the goal. George's
    proposition entails conflicting requirements. Resolving that paradoxical ideal
    may turn out to be impossible.\r\n\r\nThen again there might be something very
    valuable burried under layers of conventional widsom and received ideas waiting
    to be (re)discovered, and since we don't have a clear definition of that thing...we
    are in the position of the blind man in the dark room looking for the black cat
    that may or may not be there.\r\n\r\nI'm trying things, reaching in different
    directions by way of trial & error, in an effort to find that cat and illuminate
    it. Nature---the blind watchmaker---designed every known plant and animal by trial
    & error over millions of years. Experimental type design sometimes follows a similar
    methodology.\r\n\r\n<em>Then for total freedom of expression you can just draw
    pictures.</em>\r\n\r\nCalligraphic letters and tyopgraphic designs are, in a sense,
    very detailed pictures we draw according to an established repertoire of gestures
    and forms. George is a writer expressing himself in words who seeks a means of
    infusing subtle nuances of inflection into text type. In that sense he is trying
    to combine some of the expressive capabilities of pictorial art with text type.\r\n\r\n<em>Type,
    on the other hand, in expressing through changing mechanisms and tastes, has taken
    on a wide range of forms, many of them totally non-Calligraphic, in the successful
    service of crystal clear expression.</em>\r\n\r\nCertainly. I don't have a problem
    with that. At the same time I'm not suggesting calligraphy would do the same unbiased
    job of clear articulation. Earlier on this thread I was arguing in favour of conventional
    text types and their inherent clarity. Then, later, I suggested calligraphy as
    a possibility for George's pursuit---rendering his own writing with more expressiveness
    and subjectivity than conventional text types allow. The application is for George
    as both the writer and type designer, not for widespread use as a distributed
    type tool.\r\n\r\n<em>And, today that mechanism can use type pretending to be
    most nearly every style of writing\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nYes. And the stylistic range
    is growing in ever more fascinating and challenging guises.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-09 03:45:34'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Peter---thanks :^) \"praxis\" is a good replacement for \"art form\" because
    it broadens the range of activity this can be applied to---and it forces people
    to look up \"praxis\" in the dictionary.\r\n\r\nThe rest of your expansion is
    well received. If I may rephrase some of it;\r\n\r\n<em>In type-making, the persistence,
    through imitation, of robust (in perceptual processing terms) norm-violations
    produces typographical history.</em>\r\n\r\n\"In type-making, the persistence
    through imitation---of robust norm-violations---produces typographic evolution
    and history.\"\r\n\r\nCan you amplify \"in perceptual processing terms\"? I think
    I know what you mean but it's a bit obscure for lay readers.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-09 03:59:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"[...] produces typographic evolution [...]\"\r\nYes!\r\n\r\nOr maybe: concentration
    on articulation drives typographical evolution, and the persistence through imitation
    of the robust norm-violations that concentration on articulation introduces, produces
    history.\r\n\r\n\"Can you amplify \u201C[robust] in perceptual processing terms\u201D?\"\r\nThink
    of our (somewhat plastic or elastic) bio-physical 'reading-ware' or 'vision-ware'
    as a 'fitness filter', selecting for and favouring the replication of emergent
    optical-grammatical features it finds useful for streamlining it's processes.
    This happens subliminally, George, or so I think.\r\n\r\n(Is this the kind of
    amplification you were after?)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-02-09 14:24:54'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>Is this the kind of amplification you were after?</em>\r\n\r\nS\xED,
    correcto.\r\n\r\nIn short, \"...bio-physical vision-ware selects emergent optical-grammatical
    favourable to it\u2019s streamlining processes.\"\r\n\r\n<em>...of robust (in
    perceptual processing terms)...</em>\r\n\r\nWhat property of the perceptual processing
    makes it \"robust\", and why, etcetera? Why is it called robust? Because it is
    vigourous in the way it goes about processing?\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-02-09 15:10:18'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "James, I meant to say the norm-violations are robust. That is, that some
    of the norm violations produced through 'concentration on articulation'are keepers
    from a perceptual processing point of view, they score high on the fitness for
    enhanced readabillity meter. Robust norm-violations are those that encourage efficient
    processing at the biophysical or vision science level. Efficiency is at least
    foundationally a matter of neural computational efficiency <em>at the visual cortex
    (and earlier) level (as distinct from a lexical access level)</em>.\r\n\r\nWhy
    robust? because the norm-violatios might enhance the saliency--and via that, cue-value--of
    just those features which in bouma context are criterial to effective visual wordform
    resolution. We do not know these features beforehand, and a theory of reading
    does not hand them to us. It just tells us what kinds of things are relevant.
    Overdetermined saliency maps are relevant. Proper cue value is relevant. Concentrated
    & ludic 'travaille sur' articulation is a (the?) search-engine.\r\n\r\nOr so I
    think.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-02-11 14:54:04'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "H\xE9ctor: [about Frank Smith]\r\n\r\nI'll certainly look into <em>Understanding
    Reading: A Psycholinguistic Analysis of Reading and Learning to Read</em>. In
    preparing for the presentation underlying my <em>Typo#13</em> contribution I read
    parts of Frank Smith's 1996 <em>Reading Without Nonsense</em> and the wonderful
    essay \"What's the use of the Alphabet\" in <em>Essays into Literacy : Selected
    Papers and Some Afterthoughts</em>.\r\n\r\nBut I also found <a href=\"http://www.enneson.com/public_downloads/pe/typophile/fs_psychonosci_1969.pdf\">this</a>
    1969 paper useful, for its emphasis on \"sufficient\" processing of \"criterial
    combinations of features\" \"discriminated simultaneously\"; and of \"feature
    discriminability\" as \"the crucial variable in word identification\", and its
    non-dependance on a letter by letter approach.\r\n\r\n(It is one of the things
    that consolidate my misgivings about Hrant's parafoveal emphasis, while keeping
    alive the prospects of a view that doesn't capitulate to a letter-slot pocessing
    approach to visual wordform resolution. Lateral interference in the paravoveal
    stream causes the <em>what where</em> of criterial features (role-architecture-level
    particulars and primitives) to be beyond discrimination.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-11 21:23:53'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Peter, I understand the point of the paper you pointed out, but I get a bit
    lost on your last paragraph (not good enough English, sorry). But I still think
    that reducing the reading task to the processing of the text in units (such as
    letters, words, syllabes or whatever) is missing the point that human perception
    can work at any level to ger the visual information it needs to predict the meaning
    of the text.\r\n\r\nBut don't take me too seriusly, I'm a graphic designer who
    read a book on the topic, I really don't have knowledge or experience in the topic.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-02-12 15:51:15'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">English\r\n\r\nThat's English? ;-)"
  created: '2006-02-12 16:09:23'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "No, it's me.\r\nAnd it assumes my contexts."
  created: '2006-02-12 16:44:23'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>...norm-violations are robust...enhance the saliency\u2014and...cue-value\u2014of
    just those features...criterial to effective wordform resolution.</em>\r\n\r\nWhich
    makes them noticeable, or memorable. Naturally, higher level abstract cognitive
    process takes up after word-picture data is read, and gestalt meaning of a text
    by way of ratiocination. \r\n\r\n<em>...biophysical or vision science level...at
    the visual cortex ...</em>\r\n\r\nAbout the visual cortex. Have you looked at
    axon modelling as the physical basis for memory and shape recognition? Susan Greenfield's
    <em>Brain Story</em> makes me wonder if that specific part of the human brain,
    using axon modelling, is involved in word shape recognition.\r\n\r\nAccording
    to neuroscientists the human brain has a substantially greater capacity for shape
    recognition than any other primate, and apparently this is linked to, or engineered
    by our need to recognize the differences between individual human faces---as a
    survival skill.\r\n\r\nAnthropologists have taken this up as a way of helping
    to explain the superiority of Homo Sapiens over Neanderthals, and why Neanderthals
    died out. For example, if they had difficulty recognizing one individual from
    another, or the subtleties of facial expression, Neanderthals may also have struggled
    to detect a lie by reading a face, placing them at a disadvantage. In examination
    of artefacts like tools and personal items Neanderthals are seen to have less
    creative ability (they weren't as good at crafting objects d'art).\r\n\r\nj a
    m e s"
  created: '2006-02-12 17:30:11'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "H\xE9ctor, the argument of my last paragraph is that: if Frank Smith is correct
    about discriminability of features being fundamental to the perceptual processing
    component of reading, than this poses a challenge to Hrant's claim that the bulk
    of recognition happens or can happen parafoveally. This poses a challenge because
    the 'what feature where' information is rendered impossible to discriminate or
    compile, due to lateral interference. (This is not to say that some skipping based
    on parafoveal preview does not routinely occur.)\r\n\r\nI agree with Frank Smith
    that grammatical and semantic context knowledge (in the field of discourse relevent
    to the subject mater of the text) reduces the dependancy on visual processing
    in reading, to the extent that it allows the probability summation routines underlying
    recognition to reach sufficient confidence about lexical identity sooner. \r\n\r\nJames,
    I have not read Susan Greenfield's book, but if my intuition about what axon modelling
    is, is correct, I'd want to say: it would be nice if axon modelling could penetrate
    the mechanics of probability summation to the point where is could factor in familiarity
    of context, and the contributions of lateral interactions at the visual cortex
    level.\r\n\r\nAxon modelling might also, if it can become sophisticated enough,
    help George with his search for what level of typographical variation is subliminally
    discarded as noise, and what is fed forward to the reception system as inflectionally
    informative. (It might also help decide between my model of perceptual processing
    in reading and Kevin Larson's.)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-02-12 21:04:00'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Well I don't know if the bulk of recognition happens in the parafovea but
    certainly there can be a big deal of it in the parafovea, depending on the kind
    of feature the individual needs to recognize in order to eliminate the uncertainty
    of the meaning of the text being read.\r\n\r\nBut I'm a bit lost, I can't recall
    what lateral interference is.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-02-14 04:59:41'
date: '2006-02-03 21:17:12'
node_type: forum
title: Subliminally perceived differences between fonts in a typeface

---
