---
author:
  name: elias bitencourt
  picture: 110697
body: "Hi everybody, \r\n\r\nI\u2019m working on a sans with a blackletter influence.
  The forms was inspired by the rotunda style of the blackletters and the sans serif's
  design of twenty century. The first version was called Benedicta, it keeps the heavy
  structure of the gothic types and the legibility of the sans what make it a good
  type for headings. Until now, these are the first versions of some lowercases. The
  diacritics, punctuation, symbols and characters x, y and z are under construction
  as the uppercase letters. I'll post it here as soon as possible. \r\n\r\ntks"
comments:
- author:
    name: Da Kine
    picture: 111014
  body: "eliasbitencourt-\r\nImpressive!!!\r\nDK~"
  created: '2006-02-07 22:52:28'
- author:
    name: elias bitencourt
    picture: 110697
  body: thanks for the compliment DK!
  created: '2006-02-08 02:42:57'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "just a couple things that jumped out at me:\r\n\r\nthe weight distribution
    of the strokes is off in places: you might want to spend a bit more time working
    out your [[ductal logic]]. for example the a feels funny because the upper stroke
    is noticeably heavier than the lower diagonal stroke of the bowl. i would think
    that these should be of a more similar weight.\r\nsecondly, i don't know if you
    meant to make the 10 o'clock portion of your f curve flat, but i think that's
    just about right. however, i think this should be applied to other round characters
    at the same 10 o'clock position. for some inspiration, you might check out <a
    href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/bradley-urw/\">Bradley</a>. Of course,
    you want to tame this down a bit, but you might want to capture a bit more of
    its \"essence.\""
  children:
  - author:
      name: elias bitencourt
      picture: 110697
    body: "tks for the advices paul, I think that the strokes needs a fine-tuning
      too but I was trying to finish the lowercase set before do it. The upper curves
      on the glyphs \"e\" and \"o\" seems to be a little bit flat and not to continuous
      as do they should be. I think the glyph \"s\" looks like a little heavier than
      the other ones too, what do you think about?\r\n\r\nOpinions are always helpful.
      Thanks a lot!"
    created: '2006-02-08 14:37:40'
  created: '2006-02-08 03:32:39'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: "I do agree with Paul about the weight being inconsistent, but I think you
    should go for a more increased contrast between thin and thick strokes; I like
    the contrast in letters 'h', 'm' and 'n'.\r\n\r\nAnd, I think this is still too
    raw, undeveloped. IMO, you should incorporate more blackletter elements to it
    (like what Paul said about the detail in your 'f'); make it a real mashup. As
    it is now, it looks likes you just applied some random elements to a generic sans-serif.\r\n\r\nWorking
    on your 'ductus logic' would be a great start. Fixing the stroke contrast will
    make it easier to evaluate and improve this typeface.\r\n\r\n-- <a href=\"http://www.omine.net/\">omine.net</a>"
  children:
  - author:
      name: elias bitencourt
      picture: 110697
    body: "Eduardo, \r\n\r\nI do agree with you and Paul about the contrasts and my
      \"ductus logic\". I'll work hard on it.  I admitted that I'm just a little hazy
      about take a lot of others blackletters elements, I was thinking about a sans
      with some kind off blackletter appeal an not a gothic typeface at all. But,
      I'll follow up the advices, test an post the news as son as posible.\r\n\r\nthanks
      for you attention an sugestions,\r\n\r\ne."
    created: '2006-02-10 17:29:35'
  created: '2006-02-10 15:16:22'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Way to go Elias. This is the kind of contemporary \"blackletter\" needed
    to help redeem the German tradition. Very cool.\r\n\r\n<em>the a feels funny because
    the upper stroke is noticeably heavier than the lower diagonal stroke of the bowl</em>\r\n\r\nSame
    with the \"a\" in Gill Sans. I guess lots of designers complain about that, but
    we established on the \"g's anyone?\" thread that the Gill Sans \"a\" is that
    font's signature letter and helps makes it iconic. I would keep the upper stroke
    in this sans as thin as it is, and thin down the bar of \"e\" to match.\r\n\r\nBesides,
    it matches the thin stroke on h, m, n, b, q, p, d, u, r.\r\n\r\nSuggestion: you
    could try making the right-hand strokes of v and w thinner to match. Try it on
    k. Nothing to lose by trying.\r\n\r\nElias, I like this font very much and look
    forward to seeing it in use :)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  children:
  - author:
      name: elias bitencourt
      picture: 110697
    body: "hi James, thanks for your coments! \r\n\r\nI've been trying to get a little
      bit of contrast to make it more clear... so I needed to change some things like
      \"a\" \"e\" \"c\" \"o\", the bows of \"b\" \"p\" \"q\" and \"d\". The changes
      are in the jpg at the attachment\u2019s list above. Its not properly a ductus
      logic studies, just a few adjustments... I also did some signs; diacritics and
      ligatures check it out.\r\n\r\nbut I'm not sure yet... some times I see 3 different
      possibilities \r\n\r\n1. Work on a sans serif for headlines and preserve some
      strong structures,\r\n2. Work on a modern gothic improving the contrast and
      the ductus logic,\r\n3. Work on a sans with a just more contrast.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
      at the end of the process I'll have a big family.\r\n\r\nI\u2019m working and
      some news is coming... I'll post it at soon. Tks for the advices, keep the coments!\r\n\r\ne."
    created: '2006-02-16 04:57:16'
  created: '2006-02-13 12:36:57'
- author:
    name: elias bitencourt
    picture: 110697
  body: "Hey everybody,\r\n\r\njust a few news about the process. I did some improvements
    in the axis direction, fine- tunings and readjusts in the bows of the \"b\",\"p\",\"d\",\"q\"
    e \"g\". New diacritics, ligatures and alternate characters had been developed
    too. Check it out at the <strong><a href=\"http://www.acasadotipo.com.br/benedicta/specimen_poster.jpg\">specimen
    file</a></strong> here. \r\n\r\nThe next steps:  characters \"x\", \"y\",\"z\",
    numerals and the uppercase letters. \r\n\r\nWhat are you say guys?\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-17 03:46:14'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Looking good. I think maybe the "e" crossbar should be steeper to match that
    of the "a". When they are set together as "ea" or "ae" the slight difference in
    slope is distracting.
  created: '2006-03-19 05:25:47'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "After a quick look, I think that the c, e, and o are too round. Have you
    tried \"breaking\" their curves? In your e-mail to me, you said that this was
    inspired in part by rotundas. If you break the curve in one or two places along
    the letter, you won't loose any rotunda-ness\u2026\r\n\r\nAlso, I would play with
    the ligatures a bit more. The f in the f-k liagature curves over too low before
    it meets the stem of the k. This isn't so happy. I can't if your f-h does the
    same\u2026 the image that you posted above isn't big enough for me to see it clearly.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    the join of your c-ligatures should be lower so that the h and the k have more
    stem and read clearer.\r\n\r\nI think that your \"pen angle\" on top of the b,
    d, and l is too steep.\r\n\r\nAll in all, this seems like a great start! Keep
    going with it."
  created: '2006-03-22 15:47:28'
- author:
    name: elias bitencourt
    picture: 110697
  body: "Guys,\r\n\r\nI'm having some troubles to post the images... every time that
    I try to attach one file a message says: \u201Cfile copy failed: no directory
    configured, or it could not be accessed\u201D... Does anybody have idea what is
    happening? I lost some images and get restricted to post new ones. What shoul
    I do?\r\n\r\n\u2026\u2026\u2026\u2026\r\n\r\nDan, Thanks for your attention, I'm
    trying to put a better image from character map to make the ligatures and alternate
    solutions more clear. I\u2019ll try your suggestions and post the news at soon.\r\n\r\nI
    hope to solve this image inconvenient.\r\n\r\ntks and sorry ;-(\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 18:13:57'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: You should be able to go back to your original post at the top of the thread
    and edit it. There, you can attach files. PDFs would be best.
  created: '2006-03-22 18:27:00'
- author:
    name: elias bitencourt
    picture: 110697
  body: Yes, I do this procedure every time, but is not working for me today...  :-(
    Any idea?
  created: '2006-03-22 18:32:00'
- author:
    name: elias bitencourt
    picture: 110697
  body: "Well, wile I don\u2019t post the news structures, the tryouts following Dan\u2019s
    suggestions and don\u2019t fix the bug, you could see the details of some characters,
    ligatures and alternates in the  <strong><a href=\"http://www.acasadotipo.com.br/benedicta/character_map.jpg\">character
    map file</a></strong> above.\r\n\r\nCriticize them! :-)\r\n\r\ntks\r\n\r\ne.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-23 13:20:37'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "<em>I think that your \u201Cpen angle\u201D on top of the b, d, and l is
    too steep.</em>\r\n\r\nYes. Even tho this design is synthetic its pen-derived
    nature should not be neglected. The angled stem ends do not feature realistic
    nib & ink details but are abstracted with their crisp geometric precision, and
    suggestive of calligraphic forms. Therefore at least make the angle realistic
    to make the motif authentic. It may sound contradictory, but abstracted design
    can have realistic qualities. \r\n\r\nIs all this philosophical design justification
    neccessary? Not absolutely, but it definitely gives insight into your design and
    aids in solving various kinds of problems :^)\r\n\r\n<em>If you break the curve
    in one or two places along the letter, you won\u2019t loose any rotunda-ness...</em>\r\n\r\nTrue,
    but that kind of thing tends to be more successful in rotundas drawn with a flat
    nib and ink where the line contrast is high. I'm not disagreeing with you outright,
    but think fracturing may be problematic in a low contrast linear font like this
    one. The best answer is to try it and see how it goes.\r\n\r\n<em>After a quick
    look, I think that the c, e, and o are too round. Have you tried \u201Cbreaking\u201D
    their curves?</em>\r\n\r\nRight on Dan. Try it Elias, keep it subtle, flattening
    only a small amount, and the b-q, d-p pairs to match, to better integrate those
    letters with the straight-sided h, n, m. Another potential reason for flattening
    the rounds is to instill a stronger blackletter heritage---if blackletter is the
    direction you want to go in.\r\n\r\nThe alternative is to leave the rounded letters
    rounded---to contrast with the straight-sided guys. This approach is found in
    most sans serifs, eg: officina, frutiger, futura. Not many people question the
    design logic of those fonts or complain they lack integration. The shape contrast
    is taken for granted, as a defacto standard in roman type design. The advantage
    of contrasting forms---rounded versus rectangular---is maintaining differentiation
    and readability. One detractor of blackletters is their reduced readability because
    they're so modular.\r\n\r\nBut that kind of modularity is a defining characteristic
    of blackletters, and there is a very special, sublime art to making them hang
    together and read properly. Some letters are differentiated only by serif & swash
    lengths and positions.\r\n\r\nOne problem to tackle is deciding on structures
    for x, y and z. Dan doesn't like them and its easy to understand why*. In a strict
    blackletter font, roman x, y, z structures stand out next to all the straight-sided
    forms. Many blackletters solve this integration problem with cursive forms for
    v, w and y, with straight sides (or at least one straight side). Traditional blackletter
    \"x\" is very abstracted, and not compatible with your font (people simply would
    not accept it). That leaves s and z as oddballs---\"z\" can be made with straight
    sides, but is a risky solution. Rounded \"s\" form isn't a problem in schwabacher
    and fraktur; textur s's have square sides.\r\n\r\nThese are crucial factors that
    will help determine whether to keep c, e, o, b, d, p, q rounded, or flatten or
    even fracture their sides. Decision time...which direction should the whole thing
    go? Flatten c, e, o, b, d, p, q and it will very likely go the blackletter route.
    Keep those letters rounded and defacto roman s, v, w, x, y, z forms will integrate
    much more plausibly; but the whole will still have tangible blackletter characteristics.
    Which direction you go depends how gothic, or roman you want it to be.\r\n\r\nThe
    most interesting thing about this font so far is the curious blend of gothic and
    roman elements. Making it decidedly blackletter could make it routine and predictable,
    and not particularly interesting compared to traditional blackletters. The best
    advice I can give is---keep it interesting :^)\r\n\r\nA quick rework:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/eliasrework3.png]\r\n\r\n*
    upper arm of \"k\" thinned to obey stroke/ductus logic\r\n* angled ends on ends
    that were horizontal\r\n* redesigned \"f\" hood (your current version was too
    thick)\r\n* less angle on stem ends\r\n\r\nAngling every stem end is optional
    and I only drew them to find out what it looks like. Some people like it that
    way---very uniform. I prefer variety of detail and a sensible amount of non-conformity
    to keep things stimulating.\r\n\r\nRhodaelian modularity:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rhodiemodular.png]\r\n\r\nThere
    are intelligent modular fonts and simplistic modular fonts. One thing I strived
    hard for with Rhodie was intelligent modular design in a blackletter-like font
    with straight sides---not easy. \r\n\r\n* \"w\" isn't just two v's stuck together
    \r\n* \"u\" (not shown here) and \"w\" have shared form, but distinguishing details\r\n*
    stroke ends on \"s\" are not straight diagonal lines---a shallow curve was neccessary
    to contrast with the straight diagonals of the spine---straight stroke ends were
    palpably wrong in context\r\n* how an \"x\" can have straight sides---it only
    integrates properly in this kind of a font where straight sides dominate.\r\n\r\nVertziert
    Schwabacher I am working on:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/verziertschwabach02.png]\r\n\r\n*
    example of cursive \"v\" and \"w\"\r\n* new \"x\" is roman form but I made it
    fit in with modular details\r\n* original y is roman form too but fits in for
    same reasons\r\n* \"z\" is cursive blackletter form, I recommend it for your font\r\n*
    traditional schwabacher \"s\" is just plain beautiful---sublime beauty. Consider
    adopting/adapting it\r\n* cursive loop \"k\" is replacement for traditional schwabacher
    form, also recommend cursive loop design for your font.\r\n\r\nYour current \"s\"
    is not well integrated, but don't take that criticism too seriously. Lots of fonts,
    some quite successful, have an unintegrated \"s\" problem. If you decide to change
    your \"s\" the schwabacher form would be a good starting point. Study a few well-regarded
    schwabachers. Make sure you're looking at genuine, authentic schwabacher \"s\",
    as some schwabacher fonts have corrupted/bogus \"s\" forms. Forget textur \"s\",
    not suitable. Fraktur \"s\" offers possibilities too.\r\n\r\nIt's been a pleasure
    working on your font Elias.\r\n\r\n* I empathize strongly with your attitude to
    those diagonals Dan :^)\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  children:
  - author:
      name: elias bitencourt
      picture: 110697
    body: "What a big contribution James! Thanks very much!\r\n\r\nLet me say something
      about:\r\n\r\n<cite>I think that your \u201Cpen angle\u201D on top of the b,
      d, and l is too steep.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Yes. Even tho this design is synthetic
      its pen-derived nature should not be neglected. The angled stem ends do not
      feature realistic nib & ink details but are abstracted with their crisp geometric
      precision, and suggestive of calligraphic forms. Therefore at least make the
      angle realistic to make the motif authentic. It may sound contradictory, but
      abstracted design can have realistic qualities.\r\nIs all this philosophical
      design justification neccessary? Not absolutely, but it definitely gives insight
      into your design and aids in solving various kinds of problems :^)</cite>\r\n\r\nYes
      Dan and James, I do agree with you. I need to improve my ductus logic. I\u2019m
      doing, but this kind of modifications needs what we use to say here in Brazil
      \u201Ctempo de gaveta\u201D. Its sounds like take time to the forms get mature.
      I\u2019m thinking about it. ;-)\r\n\r\n<cite>If you break the curve in one or
      two places along the letter, you won\u2019t loose any rotunda-ness\u2026 </cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>After
      a quick look, I think that the c, e, and o are too round. Have you tried \u201Cbreaking\u201D
      their curves?</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Try it Elias, keep it subtle, flattening only
      a small amount, and the b-q, d-p pairs to match, to better integrate those letters
      with the straight-sided h, n, m.</cite>\r\n\r\n<cite>Another potential reason
      for flattening the rounds is to instill a stronger blackletter heritage\u2014-if
      blackletter is the direction you want to go in.</cite>\r\n\r\nPerfect Dan and
      James that is the point! Benedicta is a Sans, with some kind off Blackletter\u2019s
      reference and not a Blackletter at all. It\u2019s made me timid to do this kind
      off modification; I\u2019m not going on old styles direction but try to give
      some classic appeal to the modern forms. But I'll try it once more :-)\r\n\r\n<cite>The
      alternative is to leave the rounded letters rounded\u2014-to contrast with the
      straight-sided guys. This approach is found in most sans serifs, eg: officina,
      frutiger, futura. Not many people question the design logic of those fonts or
      complain they lack integration.</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nYes James! You were very
      accurate on your speech! It is definitely the point again. I think the Benedicta
      is what Vox/AtypI classify like a Humanistic Sans, a kind of sans project that
      redefine classic forms or a classic review eg: Optima, ITC Officina, FF Meta\u2026
      But instead of an italic renaissance references, I\u2019m looking for a German
      ones. So, I\u2019m not intending to make a Blackletter typeface but a Humanist
      Sans with Blackletter\u2019s references. It\u2019s change everything. It\u2019s
      why my structures do not match in the least with the old German forms.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
      shape contrast is taken for granted, as a defacto standard in roman type design.
      The advantage of contrasting forms\u2014-rounded versus rectangular\u2014-is
      maintaining differentiation and readability.</cite>\r\n\r\nRight! This first
      version of Benedicta is for headings and not for long texts, so I prefer to
      keep the strong forms and contrasts of the Blackletters and balance it with
      the clarity and legibility of the sans. I thought that it could be interesting!
      ;-)\r\n\r\n<cite>One problem to tackle is deciding on structures for x, y and
      z. Dan doesn\u2019t like them and its easy to understand why*. In a strict blackletter
      font, roman x, y, z structures stand out next to all the straight-sided forms.
      Many blackletters solve this integration problem with cursive forms for v, w
      and y, with straight sides (or at least one straight side). Traditional blackletter
      \u201Cx\u201D is very abstracted, and not compatible with your font (people
      simply would not accept it). That leaves s and z as oddballs\u2014-\u201Cz\u201D
      can be made with straight sides, but is a risky solution. Rounded \u201Cs\u201D
      form isn\u2019t a problem in schwabacher and fraktur; textur s\u2019s have square
      sides.\r\nThese are crucial factors that will help determine whether to keep
      c, e, o, b, d, p, q rounded, or flatten or even fracture their sides. Decision
      time\u2026which direction should the whole thing go? Flatten c, e, o, b, d,
      p, q and it will very likely go the blackletter route. Keep those letters rounded
      and defacto roman s, v, w, x, y, z forms will integrate much more plausibly;
      but the whole will still have tangible blackletter characteristics. Which direction
      you go depends how gothic, or roman you want it to be.</cite>\r\n\r\nRight again!
      This kind of question has exhausted me and takes a lot off my time\u2026 But
      I think that this project is more disposed to be a Sans, so the roman forms
      of s, v, w, x, y and z sounds more according with my proposes. In fact I\u2019m
      planning to draw some alternate Caps and lc letters more closely with the old
      forms. It would be released in alternate version of the Benedicta that could
      be combined with this actual version for specific uses. As you say: <cite>\u201CYour
      current \u201Cs\u201D is not well integrated, but don\u2019t take that criticism
      too seriously. Lots of fonts, some quite successful, have an unintegrated \u201Cs\u201D
      problem.\u201D</cite> Some characters will call for fine-tuning adjusts to match
      with the whole but this way looks more interesting than blackletters way for
      me now\u2026 ;-)\r\n\r\n<cite>The most interesting thing about this font so
      far is the curious blend of gothic and roman elements. Making it decidedly blackletter
      could make it routine and predictable, and not particularly interesting compared
      to traditional blackletters.</cite>\r\n\r\nAs I think James! As I think :^D\r\n\r\nAbout
      the <strong>quick rework</strong>, I agree with some points like reduce the
      angle on stem ends and redefine the end of the \u201Cf\u201D arch, but I\u2019m
      not sure about angling the stem ends. I do prefer variety of details but in
      this case I think it reduce a bit of strength and make the left sides of the
      characters looks lower than they really do. Perhaps improve overshoots below
      the base line\u2026 But I\u2019m not sure\u2026 I\u2019ll save this comments
      for later, let me do the adjusts first ;^) All in all, tks for your interest
      ;-)\r\n\r\n<strong>Vertziert Schwabacher</strong>, amazing! Have you already
      post it here in typophile?\r\n\r\nJames, I really appreciate your contribution
      thanks a lot! \r\n\r\nI'm working on it and will post some news at soon...\r\n\r\nThanks
      for all guys, keep the comments! \r\n\r\ne.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-03-30 05:29:28'
  created: '2006-03-29 14:05:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> One detractor of blackletters is their reduced readability because they\u2019re
    so modular.\r\n\r\nOn the contrary, blackletter has a lot more structural variety
    -especially in the extenders, the important place- than Roman.* You might be thinking
    of the textura sub-style, which does indeed do away with too many curves; but
    think instead of fraktur, and its sublime archetypical Yin-Yang \"o\".\r\n\r\n*
    http://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_fraktur1.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-29 15:19:31'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "Yes, alright, textur is the one with modularity problems.  I wrote an essay
    on textur versus fraktur & schwabacher, the conclusion goes some thing like:\r\n\r\n\"Textur,
    that pious black broken bastard, gives the other two a bad reputation they haven't
    earned.\"\r\n\r\nI'm well aware of the differences between the 3 main blackletter
    types, having looked very, very closely at them. Even so, the blackletter = modular
    = unreadable myth clouds my perception. LOL.\r\n\r\n<em>On the contrary, blackletter
    has a lot more structural variety -especially in the extenders, the important
    place- than Roman.</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely, especially fraktur and its rich \"o\"
    design. The structural wealth of schwabacher and fraktur is what makes them so
    great and roman so predictable. The uniformity/modularity of roman is what you'd
    expect from design decended from an authoritive, militant, regimented, heavily
    ordered culture---romanis de antiquitus.\r\n\r\nDo you think Koch's Klingspor
    Gotisch is an intelligent textur design compared to historic texturs from the
    12th --- 15th centuries?\r\n\r\n<em>...think [...] of fraktur, and its sublime
    archetypical Yin-Yang \u201Co\u201D.</em>\r\n\r\nI think of that at least once
    every week. It just shows up in my mind, like a template---an archetype.  :^)\r\n\r\nj
    a m e s"
  created: '2006-03-29 17:35:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> bastard, gives the other two a bad reputation\r\n\r\nBut even the fourth
    sub-style... bastarda?  :-)\r\n\r\n> Do you think Koch\u2019s Klingspor Gotisch
    is an intelligent textur\r\n> design compared to historic texturs from the 12th
    \u2014- 15th centuries?\r\n\r\nI'm not sensitive enough concerning historic blackletter
    styles\r\nto have a reliable opinion on that. But I do like Koch's design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-29 18:23:31'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "I just saw this thread on Benedicta for the first time and was wondering
    if you've managed to finish the face. I would be very interested in seeing the
    final product and reading what others have to say about it.\r\n\r\nPersonally,
    I'm extremely impressed with your concept and competence. When I saw Benedicta,
    I said out loud to myself, \"Wow, this is nice!\".\r\n\r\nI completely disagree
    with our colleague who said it was \"too raw\" and that you should make it a \"real
    mashup\". I believe simplicity is a virtue, and this proposed \"mashup\", as I
    understand it, would turn your face into the equivalent of an American pizza with
    everything but the kitchen sink on top. This is probably the reason I'm not very
    fond of your c ligatures (ch, ck), and don't much care for the h with the little
    bit of flab hanging to the left. Also, I much prefer the fl ligature in which
    the top end of the l sticks past the terminal of the f; I find the other (in which
    the f merges into the l, or vice-versa) distracting and a bit confusing.\r\n\r\nOther
    than that, your face is personable, energetic, and highly readable (provided those
    distracting ch and ck ligatures are not used). Can't wait to see your book weight,
    italic, caption and display sizes, small caps... ;-)\r\n\r\nP.S. S\xF3 descobri
    agora, com agrad\xE1vel surpresa, que voc\xEA tem sua base no Brasil. Neste pa\xEDs
    em que a boa tipografia \xE9 pouqu\xEDssimo conhecida e ainda menos praticada,
    e em que a grande maioria dos pseudo-tip\xF3grafos e designers t\xEAm uma fixa\xE7\xE3o
    com tipos neocl\xE1ssicos est\xE1ticos ou realistas, \xE9 muito bom ver talento
    como o seu."
  created: '2006-06-24 01:07:57'
- author:
    name: eomine
    picture: 110361
  body: "<em>fixa\xE7\xE3o com tipos neocl\xE1ssicos est\xE1ticos ou realistas</em>\r\n\r\nErik,
    poderia explicar esta parte? Eu vejo muita coisa retr\xF4 por a\xED: anos 70,
    AvantGarde, swashes... mas acho que isso \xE9 uma tend\xEAncia internacional do
    design gr\xE1fico mesmo.\r\n\r\n-- <a href=\"http://www.omine.net/\">omine.net</a>"
  created: '2006-06-25 16:12:22'
- author:
    name: Erik Fleischer
    picture: 111193
  body: "Eduardo, since your question strays considerably from the original topic,
    why don't we start another thread on the subject, preferably in English so all
    our colleagues can participate? I'll wait for you to re-post the message above
    as a new thread so I can write my reply, ok?\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nErik"
  created: '2006-06-25 21:13:40'
- author:
    name: elias bitencourt
    picture: 110697
  body: "Hello everybody,\r\n\r\nSince a few months without post, I finally have some
    news about Benedicta. I've made a few modifications on type structure to follow
    the ductal logic advices from typophili friends. I'm not sure yet about the \"s\",
    \"a\" and \"z\"... see the specimen <strong><a href=\"http://typophile.com/files/benedicta%2003.jpg\">here</a></strong>
    or in the downloads list above.\r\n\r\nI'm still working on lowercases adjustments,
    sketching the Uppercases. I will post these results here a.s.a.p.\r\n\r\ncoments
    is always welcome!\r\n\r\ncheers,\r\n\r\ne.\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-26 01:06:02'
- author:
    name: kyrmse
    picture: 112387
  body: "(Com grande atraso)\r\nSua Benedicta \xE9 realmente impressionante! A esta
    altura ela j\xE1 est\xE1 dispon\xEDvel para uso - isto \xE9, pode ser baixada
    da web? Interessar-me-ia muito.\r\nUm abra\xE7o do Brasil -\r\nRonald Kyrmse"
  created: '2012-05-03 20:40:45'
date: '2006-02-07 21:40:23'
files:
- filename: benedicta test.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/benedicta test.jpg
- filename: Benedicta 02.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/Benedicta 02.jpg
- filename: benedicta 03.jpg
  uri: public://old-images/benedicta 03.jpg
node_type: forum
title: Benedicta, the sans with a blackletter appeal

---
