---
author:
  name: George Horton
body: "<a href=\"http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Fman65.gif\">Fleischman 65</a>
  has some functional features - bowls shortened, bracketting lightened on horizontal
  serifs, oblique serifs cupped, o's stress made vertical, the crotch of y deepened
  and v widened, different dots on i and j - which I've applied to a vanilla Baroque
  roman, Bitstream Aldine 721 (actually a slightly narrowed Plantin), for analysis
  by comparison. A few other tweaks were made: lachrymal serifs were nudged towards
  balls, bars on f and t were thickened, o and f were widened, extenders were lengthened
  to approximate Fleischman's proportions, serifs on s were emphasized, the axes of
  e and c were moved a little towards the vertical and caps were slightly lightened
  to match the colour of the lowercase. This is not meant to be a usable or original
  face! I hope you don't zoom in too hard: it's quick and dirty stuff, and it needs
  to be printed.\r\n\r\nThis is the eleventh version. It's architectural superiority
  to the original at 12 point is I hope now clear, though it's a bit rough."
comments:
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Hmm. Interesting exercise. Changing these few features didn''t really change
    the original much. For example, you have changed the head serif, but not the foot
    that much. In the Fleishman scans, as well as the Farnham, Mercury and DTL Fleishman
    revivals, they all have the foot serifs much thinner. You have changed stress
    on the o but not the c and e accordingly. The joins of the m n on Fleishman are
    much thinner, the handling of contract on the o is different, etc., etc. And this
    doesn''t even get into proportions. Any of the Fleishman revivals would look way
    different at text size, I would think, though I don''t own any of them.  '
  created: '2006-02-09 15:27:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What an interesting exercise to show how overall texture can change! \r\n\r\n1)
    Is it set at 12 point?\r\n2) Did you match the vertical proportions to the 65?\r\n3)
    What about the spacing?\r\n4) I would make the foot serifs totally unbracketed,
    or only\r\nenough to simulate some typical gain (maybe 1/1000 inch).\r\n\r\n>
    You have changed stress on the o but not the c and e accordingly.\r\n\r\nWell,
    this is intentional.\r\nIn fact it's arguably the single most distinctive mark
    of the 65.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-09 15:47:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Well, this is intentional.\r\n\r\nHrant, I didn't mean that the c and e
    have to have the same stress as  the o. They are different in Fleishman 65, but
    the c and e don't have the heavy stress on the southwest squadrant that is characteristic
    of Plantin and Times New Roman, and which this face, even revised has. The c and
    e shouldn't be the same, but they should relate, which here they don't, just like
    the mismatch between head and foot serifs. "
  created: '2006-02-09 15:59:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't get it. When you write \"c and e shouldn\u2019t be the same,\r\nbut
    they should relate\", I would ask of the first part: why not?\r\nand for the second
    part I would say: I think they already do!\r\n\r\n> the mismatch between head
    and foot serifs.\r\n\r\nThat's intentional too.\r\nUnless you're saying that that
    mismatch should be\r\ncarried over to one between \"c\" and \"e\" (and \"o\")?\r\nSorry,
    I guess I'm just confused.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-09 17:28:45'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: The aim was only to lightly apply some of the functional characteristics of
    F65 to a familiar set of unadventurous but well-made forms, and to me at least
    there's a noticable gain in readable clarity - casting one's eyes at the pages,
    words leap out of the 65 better than the 721. Taking the bracketting off horizontal
    serifs would rather dramatically alter what is after all a pseudo-Plantin - what
    is Plantin without it's massive brackets? - though I'll try it, and reset at 12
    point. Spacing is unchanged, except on the widened f and v.
  created: '2006-02-09 17:45:42'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'To clarity, hopefully: the weight of the c and e should relate to the o even
    though they have a different stress. In the original Fleishman 65 they balance.
    In the ''generic 65'' they don''t. My point was simply that if you wanted to make
    the generic look like Fleishman it would have a long way to go to get there. But
    I guess George''s experiment was to see whether a few features would make a difference. '
  created: '2006-02-09 18:23:15'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: A new, 12 point version is up, with less bracketting and some more tweaks
    to, amongst others, c and e. Vertical proportions are more Fleischmanly, while
    maintaining the same line increment as 721.
  created: '2006-02-09 19:34:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "First: In case anybody's wondering about my #1\r\nabove, it's because #65
    was cut for ~12 point.\r\n\r\n> words leap out\r\n\r\nIf they do so not because
    of a color spike and not because\r\nthey're capitalized, then that's a very good
    sign indeed.\r\n\r\n> the weight of the c and e should relate to the o\r\n\r\nOK,
    I get it - and I agree.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nI'd like to suggest another mod:\r\nLook
    at the dots on the \"i\" and \"j\" in the original #65: they're\r\nunusually hefty*
    (especially in my high-fidelity 1908 scan) plus\r\nthey're actually at different
    heights! To me those are very significant.\r\n\r\n* Something I've done in my
    Patria. When a type designer opines to me\r\nthat \"the dots are slightly too
    heavy\", I know I'm right on the mark.  :->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-09 21:28:48'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: My dots were already slightly differently aligned, but I've done as you rightly
    recommended.
  created: '2006-02-09 22:07:12'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'This has been gone over to make the two sources harmonise better: it''s much
    less ugly now, and perhaps less ugly than the 721.'
  created: '2006-02-10 00:50:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Although I think Platin is ugly in a very useful way.\r\nIt's the unshaven
    mine worker among a crowd of pansy bureaucrats.\r\n\r\n> harmonise\r\n\r\nBut
    are the boumas jumping out as much as with the previous version?\r\nI don't know,
    I'm just asking.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-10 18:24:32'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>But are the boumas jumping out as much as with the previous version?</cite>\r\nFollowing
    a few tweaks, I hope they are. I'm not sure really - I made the changes that were
    screaming out to be made if the result was to look like something one could sit
    down and design from scratch. \r\n\r\nPlantin is one of the wonders of the world
    as a 9- or 10-pointer for pocket books*, but it's odd to think that Plantin's
    pleasant solidity in serifs and bracketting was meant not to be readable but to
    hide the impression of sharpness that inevitably came with printing on newly popular
    glossy paper. So Plantin was the first type designed to overcome the problem of
    that excess clarity which has, with digital printing, become universal. \r\n\r\n*The
    comparison between large-size Plantin and Romanee in Counter Punch is hilariously
    unkind to the former. There could hardly be two more different versions of the
    High Renaissance roman."
  created: '2006-02-10 19:15:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">was meant not to be readable but to hide the impression of sharpness that
    inevitably came with printing on newly popular glossy paper\r\n\r\nWhere did you
    read this story of Plantin? I'd like to read it too. I don't think Plantin is
    ugly at all. It is a work horse, not a show horse, but a champion work horse.
    I am just reading in 'Print's Types of the Twentieth Century' that it was done
    to the same widths as Imprint, which was a regularized Caslon with a larger x-height--and
    also a work horse. And I don't know which story about Times New Roman is true,
    but it does look a lot like a sharpened Plantin (with Perpetua style serifs).
    So in a way you could say that one version of your exercise--clarifying Plantin--is
    Times New Roman! \r\n\r\nBy your lightening does give a cleaner impression, but
    it loses the comforting solidity of the original, without getting to the more
    clear and open look of Baskerville. So the interesting thing to me is that in
    lightening it up, something was lost as well as gained.  "
  created: '2006-02-10 22:21:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Plantin was the first type designed to overcome the problem of that excess
    clarity\r\n\r\n1) Are you sure? Where have you read that? From what I know it\r\nwas
    designed to be \"sturdy\", but that's doesn't mean \"pudgy\".\r\n2) If it's true,
    it would have been quite advanced, especially\r\nfor its time. Not even to this
    day is there the general view that\r\nwe suffer from \"excess clairity\" (although
    I agree we do).\r\n\r\n> The comparison between large-size Plantin and Romanee
    ...\r\n\r\nBut the key thing here is that Plantin was design to be set small.\r\nLooking
    at it large can only be non-misleading if you know what to\r\nlook for (and I'm
    not sure I do myself). You just can't have both.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-10 23:18:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Plantin was design to be set small.\r\n\r\nYes, 'Printer's Types', that
    I referred to, has a fascinating graphic comparing Van Krimpen's drawings with
    the optically sized metal type cut by his punchcutter, A. Rosenberger. The small
    sizes dramatically increase the weight and make other subtle changes. Southworth's
    point is that Van Krimpen and other famous designers just trusted the production
    pros at the founderies to get it right.  "
  created: '2006-02-10 23:38:51'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "I can't remember where I read the Plantin story, but <a href=\"http://www.typeculture.com/academic_resource/articles_essays/pdfs/tc_article_23.pdf\">this
    dissertation</a> confirms that Plantin (1913) was \"a robust version of a Robert
    Granjon sixteenth century type for printing on art paper\", and it was made at
    a time when new designs were not produced except for new printing conditions:
    the only designs offered by Monotype in the pre-Morison period which were not
    maximally literal revivals (or rather just versions) were, I think, Imprint and
    Plantin. Imprint was for periodicals which needed a sturdy, efficient Caslon-a-like,
    and Plantin was for coated paper. And so Glaister's 1960 Encyclopedia of the Book
    still has it that \"For the printing of text on art paper (which is also known
    as coated paper) such heavy faces as Plantin or Times New Roman should be used\".\r\n\r\n<cite>So
    in a way you could say that one version of your exercise\u2014clarifying Plantin\u2014is
    Times New Roman!</cite>\r\nI know - I caught a glimpse of TNR in Generic 65 after
    one of my revisions yesterday; it prompted a frenzied attempt to cover the evidence.\r\n\r\n<cite>the
    key thing here is that Plantin was design to be set small. Looking at it large
    can only be non-misleading if you know what to look for (and I\u2019m not sure
    I do myself). </cite>\r\nSure. The wonder of something like Plantin is that it
    could not possibly have been created by someone who drew the most beautiful letters
    he could and then tweaked them until they worked in text - at least in its final
    form (the design process would have involved an astonishing number of man-hours)
    it looks like it's been architected from scratch to fit a human sense quite unlike
    the ordinary large-scale vision for which Romanee was designed."
  created: '2006-02-11 00:08:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Van Krimpen and other famous designers just trusted the production pros\r\n\r\nActually,
    although most designers did trust their punchcutter,\r\nVan Krimpen was not one
    of them: he looked down on them all the\r\ntime as \"distorters\" (not [necessarily]
    his word), and never gave\r\nhis own punchcutter (Rosenberger?) any [explicit]
    credit.\r\n\r\n> Plantin (1913) was \u201Ca robust version of ...\r\n\r\nBut/so
    then are you using \"clarity\" to mean \"lightness\"?\r\nBecause I wouldn't.\r\n\r\n>
    it could not possibly have been created by someone who drew the\r\n> most beautiful
    letters he could and then tweaked them until they\r\n> worked in text\r\n\r\nIndeed,
    and that's what makes it a man (text font) among boys (display fonts).\r\nAnd
    this \"you can't get there from here\" reality eludes many -otherwise\r\nadmirable-
    Famous Designers:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/13926\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-11 01:08:03'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>But/so then are you using \u201Cclarity\u201D to mean \u201Clightness\u201D?</cite>\r\nNo,
    not lightness - to have too much clarity is to give the impression that letters
    are not atoms, that they are assembled from a number of merely juxtaposed black
    elements. But that's not right either - it has something to do with too narrow
    a range of qualities of black and white, from shining to dull.\r\n\r\nYou're wrong
    about JvK, he worshipped the punchcutter in abstract and in particular (PH R\xE4disch,
    not Rosenberger). In his Letter to Philip Hofer he says that \"Without [R\xE4disch's]
    zeal and skill my designs could hardly have become the printing material they
    are\" - and this despite the fact the JvK's drawings were far more precise than,
    say, Gill's. Indeed van Krimpen's problem with Stanley Morison was that the Monotype
    design process obliterated the punchcutter's active and optical corrections; that's
    why he had every size of Monotype Lutetia made from R\xE4disch's punches as a
    separate typeface, with quite different relative widths from size to size."
  created: '2006-02-11 03:37:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's strange, I was pretty sure I've read in more than one source\r\nthat
    JvK wished punchcutters wouldn't \"interpret\" his designs so much.\r\n\r\n> the
    Monotype design process obliterated the\r\n> punchcutter\u2019s active and optical
    corrections\r\n\r\nI do know that he had major contentions with the Monotype\r\nworks
    especially - but they <cite>did</cite> do <cite>some</cite> optical scaling, although\r\nnot
    for each size.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-11 14:46:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">PH R\xE4disch, not Rosenberger\r\n\r\nSorry, I mixed up the guy who cut
    punches for Zapf's early work and Van Krimpen's. The general point that Southworth
    makes about all the post-Benton pantographic cutters is that all relied extensively
    on the craftsmen (and women) at the founderies, and these made more of a contribution
    than is generally recognized. I suppose Goudy is an exception, for the faces he
    cut himself. --I wonder if they (Goudy's self-cut faces) were worse in craftsmanship?"
  created: '2006-02-11 17:21:56'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>I wonder if they (Goudy\u2019s self-cut faces) were worse in craftsmanship?</cite>\r\nGoudy
    went from drawings via patterns to his matrix-engraving machine, without any punches
    being cut or any optical sizing being possible."
  created: '2006-02-11 19:34:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> without ... any optical sizing being possible.\r\n\r\nNot true. The Benton
    technology included provisions\r\nfor optical scaling, and they actually tried
    to get\r\nusers of the pantograph to maintain that attribute.\r\nUnfortunately
    it was still easier <cite>not</cite> to bother with it,\r\nto the point that even
    ATF gave up on it eventually.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-11 22:47:43'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Goudy's machine was simpler, and there's no sign that Goudy was aware of non-linear
    scaling. As he proudly wrote in Typologia, "Since the tracing ball and the cutting
    cutting tool always bear the same ratio to each other which the work pattern bears
    to the point size of the type to be engraved, I contend that I can cut matrices
    for type from 8-point to 72-point from the same pattern and retain in each size
    the exact character of my original drawing, because each stem, hairline, serif
    or counter is enlarged or reduced proportionately. For instance, this book is
    set in [a number of sizes of UC Old Style], and all sizes have been produced from
    one set of raised work patterns". This is one of the black marks against Goudy.
  created: '2006-02-11 23:28:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) Goudy had a pantograph that was customized to be <cite>simpler?</cite>\r\n2)
    Being aware of something is different than thinking it's a good idea.* Isn't it
    hard to imagine that Goudy hadn't noticed, and nobody had ever told him, that
    different sizes have different (relative) widths, color, etc?\r\n\r\n* Like how
    Slimbach knows trapping exists (I presume) but doesn't put them in himself.\r\n\r\nCould
    we get a hi-res scan of the type in Typologia at two (very) different sizes?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-11 23:53:42'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "1) Goudy didn't use an ATF-style pantograph: \"The matrix-engraving machine
    which I found entirely satisfactory was not primarily made for such work, but
    with a few alterations which the manufacturer kindly made for me at my request
    it performed my work accurately; and - what was quite important - the machine,
    including the alterations, did not cost more than I could afford.\" Goudy goes
    into great detail and there is no sign at any stage of adjustments for size -
    rather the opposite, he values complete consistency with his drawings, to a stated
    minimum precision of 0.0025 of an inch.\r\n\r\n2) It's just possible that Goudy
    could not have known. Optical sizing may not have been done consciously or consistently
    by most punch-cutters - Caslon, despite his italic Q, did not make his types darker
    or wider at small sizes, and Haultin likewise. And Goudy never had close relations
    with the works of any foundry, mistrusting them because he had no real idea what
    they did - his approach was the opposite of Dwiggins'. But it's true that Goudy
    may just not have seen optical sizing as a good thing, particularly in the context
    of letterpress, since - though spacing will suffer - it's possible to embolden
    small type in the printing of it.\r\n\r\nRidiculously I dont't have a scanner,
    though I should get one soon."
  created: '2006-02-12 01:24:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Goudy didn\u2019t use an ATF-style pantograph\r\n\r\nThis I didn't know!\r\nMan,
    the things people* who know won't bother mentioning...\r\n\r\n* Like a certain
    crusty, seafaring typophile.\r\n\r\n> 0.0025 of an inch\r\n\r\nWell, considering
    his drawings were 9 inches high (right?)\r\nthat translates to a lot of precision
    in a text-size matrix.\r\n\r\nBUT, the real question is:\r\nHow fine was the diameter
    of the business end of the engraver?\r\n\r\nIf the matrix cutting bit wasn't too
    thin, that might\r\njust explain why everything Goudy made was so... pudgy!\r\n\r\n>
    though spacing will suffer - it\u2019s possible to\r\n> embolden small type in
    the printing of it.\r\n\r\nIt's certainly true that -hefty- gain can get you halfway
    to optical scaling.\r\nAnd it's possible that Goudy (like some other designers,
    including Gill)\r\ndidn't consider spacing as a \"real\", worth-mentioning part
    of designing type.\r\nSo maybe he did actually adjust the <cite>spacing</cite>
    of smaller sizes.\r\n\r\nScanner: get the one Raph has.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-12 08:41:14'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'The cutter could "cut a line one and one-half thousands of an inch in width";
    the tracing-ball going round the pattern was in exact proportion with the cutter
    going round the matrix; and from this maximum accuracy Goudy "attempted to limit
    any inaccuracy in the matrix to not more than two-ten thousands of an inch". Relying
    on a tracing ball without hand-correction of the matrix will make perfect interior
    right angles impossible, and one and a half thousands of an inch plus one thousandth
    for inkpress does make for a certain pudginess - it''s thicker than the average
    human hair. '
  created: '2006-02-12 16:19:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> one and one-half thousands of an inch in width\r\n> ...\r\n> not more than
    two-ten thousands of an inch\r\n\r\nAha - there you go.\r\nI don't know how much
    the hair anology can click, but suffice\r\nit to say that at text font sizes,
    that's really pretty massive.\r\n\r\n> Relying on a tracing ball without hand-correction
    of the\r\n> matrix will make perfect interior right angles impossible\r\n\r\nNot
    to mention trapping. Which is why foundries of quality (like Amsterdam)\r\nwho
    resorted to pantographs still had the sense of craft to sharpen some key\r\ncorners
    by hand (I actually have a photo of a whole bank of such workers).\r\n\r\nSo one
    could safely say that the \"friendliness\" attributed to\r\nGoudy's designs were
    in some part due to the limitations of\r\nhis hardware (coupled with his apparent
    acceptance of these\r\nlimitations = his eschewing of more refined techniques).\r\n\r\nIt
    wouldn't be the first time that a tool has affected the\r\nresults so much; some
    people think the same of beziers!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-12 19:05:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Here's that photo - the caption being the juicy part:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/LAmsterdam.gif]\r\n\r\nThe
    great -numeric- disproportion between the first and\r\nsecond rows of workers
    was probably an early ominous sign\r\nthat <cite>quality</cite> simply couldn't
    survive in the marketplace.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-12 20:17:53'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nAm I missing something? Where does it say anything about \"trapping\"?\r\n\r\nNice
    pic though?\r\n\r\nGerald Giampa\r\n\r\n????????????\r\n\r\n(Only joking.)"
  created: '2006-02-13 00:11:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yeah.\r\n\"And where does it say you can't cut type with an oil drilling
    rig?\"\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, there's a really disingenuous passage in Vrest Orton's
    \"Goudy - Master of Letters\", where the author recounts a meeting between Goudy
    and an unnamed Monotype guy. Lightly edited:\r\n\r\nGoudy: Now when you're cutting
    your matrix from the tracing of the\r\npattern, just how accurate do you make
    the line?\r\nGuy: We find one-thousandth of an inch sufficient. What do you find?\r\nGoudy
    (\"quietly, as if it were unnecessary to state it\"): I find that two ten-thousandths
    of an inch is not <cite>too</cite> accurate. That isn't perfect, but\r\nI need
    <cite>some</cite> leeway.\r\n\r\nAs the f**k if.\r\nIn Lebanese-Armenian slang,
    that's called \"zood filim\": pure making movies.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-13 18:06:36'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'By and large Goudy would have been able to stay within two ten-thousandths
    of an inch of his drawings, because his drawn angles are generally slightly bracketted
    anyway (as one would expect from continuous freehand lines). The only exception
    I can think of is Deepdene, which the Berthold cutting (presumably from matrices
    or print) pudgifies, but which the LTC (from drawings) does not - but then Deepdene
    is a creative misinterpretation of Lutetia, like those jolly Medieval versions
    of the Greek myths which gave Daedalus a tonsure and a ready oath, and it was
    made in the belief that it would have to be redrawn by Monotype in any case. '
  created: '2006-02-13 19:59:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "1) There's no way Monotype could only manage 1 mil on the actual type.\r\nThe
    \"guy\" must have been talking about the pattern, and Goudy I'm sure\r\nrealized
    that (assuming he had seen any Monotype samples), he just wanted\r\nto deploy
    some filim.\r\n2) The two ten-thousandths would hold up fine... as long as the
    line didn't\r\nhit another line! :-/  But since every letter except the sans \"el\"
    is more than\r\na mere stick, the heft of the cutting element makes that claim
    of precision\r\nillusionary, if not outright deceptive.\r\n\r\nBasically, Monotype
    was more precise than Goudy.\r\nPretty much anybody was. Until the 90s.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-13 20:20:59'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>Basically, Monotype was more precise than Goudy.\r\nPretty much anybody
    was. Until the 90s.</cite>\r\nYup - though, of course, if the two lines join with
    a curve which is no sharper than the circumference of a circle of 0.75 mils radius,
    then Goudy's in the clear. His drawings don't as far as I know include any traps.\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, I'm not sure the blame has to be laid on Goudy in that bit of filim.
    Goudy really was, in large and central senses, pretty dim - an endearingly bad
    writer, with a special gift for the quotation which is not a quotation (\"'time
    marches on'\"), and a scholar of type who still thought Garamond designed the
    type he revived as Garamont in 1946, twenty years after the Beatrice Warde article
    on Jannon. Perhaps he just didn't realise that the tracer ball was necessarily
    softening his angles (he was no geometer), especially since he lost the sight
    in one eye the same day he succeeded in making a cutting tool that worked."
  created: '2006-02-13 23:16:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> still thought Garamond designed the type he revived\r\n> as Garamont in
    1946, twenty years after the Beatrice\r\n> Warde article\r\n\r\nAlthough outright
    ignorance of the Garamond debacle is nearly extinct these days (at least among
    typophiles) a certain apologism, or maybe even a sleight-of-hand, surprisingly
    lives on to this day! See for example the description of Simoncini Garamond on
    Myfonts. \"Opinion varies\"? And \"true to the original\"?! Come on guys, really
    - give it up already.\r\n\r\n> he lost the sight in one eye the same day he\r\n>
    succeeded in making a cutting tool that worked.\r\n\r\nMore news to me! Interesting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-13 23:32:55'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: I like the sense of the numinous in "Garamond, or Garamont, is related to
    the alphabet of Claude Garamond (1480-1561) as well as to the work of Jean Jannon
    (1580-1635 or 1658)". What are these mysterious relations, and from what fabulous
    lotus did Garamond then arise?
  created: '2006-02-14 01:23:23'
date: '2006-02-09 13:02:53'
files:
- filename: Generic 65.pdf
  uri: public://old-images/Generic 65.pdf
node_type: forum
title: Generic 65

---
