---
author:
  name: kris
body: "I've just had an inquiry about [[dollar sign|dollar sign]]. The client wants
  a New Zealand Dollar Sign, meaning a single strike rather than a double. Is there
  such a thing? I have never heard of this, and always assumed that it was irrelevant
  either way.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I wasn't aware that it made a difference. Typeface designs seems fairly random
    about two- and one-strikes.
  created: '2006-02-16 21:47:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kris,\r\nI hope this is not the same guy who wanted you to cut your hourly
    rate! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-16 21:53:52'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "You've never heard of a dollar sign with a single stroke? Almost all sans
    serifs that I can think if have dollar signs with just one stroke, and most serifs,
    too\u2026\r\n\r\nI've never designed anything with a double stroked dollar sign.\r\n\r\nBy
    all means, design the glyph for your client\u2026 unless he only wants to pays
    you by the stroke ;-D"
  created: '2006-02-16 21:57:18'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\"You\u2019ve never heard of a dollar sign with a single stroke? Almost all
    sans serifs that I can think if have dollar signs with just one stroke, and most
    serifs, too\u2026\"\r\n\r\nI have heard of both, but never that a \"New Zealand\"
    Dollar sign is a single strike!\r\n\r\nChris\u2014they all want me to cut my hourly
    rate. I can't wait till all my grey hair has come through then I can look far
    more serious\u2026"
  created: '2006-02-16 22:03:06'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Kris,\r\n\r\nWhat is left of my hair is grey and it only changes the way
    they put it to you.\r\n\r\nIf I say my rate is $80 per hour, they say, \"What!
    I can get some young guy to do it for half that price!\" At which point, should
    I refer them to you? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-16 22:10:52'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Chris, send them to me! Like lambs to the slaughter\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-02-16 22:16:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "There are typical regional preferences in currency symbols, but not really
    standard distinctions. At the character encoding level, there is simply a dollar
    character, and whether the glyph in a font has one stroke or two is a design decision.
    So what your client is expressing is a New Zealand preference for fonts in which
    the dollar sign has a single stroke.\r\n\r\nThis is very similar to the supposed
    distinction between the British sterling symbol and the Italian lira symbol (although
    this did result in partial disunification at the character encoding level; I say
    partial, because the lira character U+20A4 ended up not being used very much,
    and most Italians continued to use the sterling character U+00A3). The argument
    there was that the British sterling symbol most often had a single bar (but could
    have two) but the Italian lira sign must always -- yes, always, absolutely everywhere
    -- have two bars. I had great fun in Italy wandering around the markets, pre-euro,
    photographing all the price signs in which the lira had only one bar :)\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-16 22:40:50'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Kris, kia ora. The single versus double is really an aesthetic thing. There
    is also the option of having the strokes only off the top and bottom of the \"s\",
    and not filling in the counters, which is useful in heavy weights. \r\n\r\nThe
    same issue occurs with the Euro and Sterling glyphs, which at heavier weights
    and in Oldstyle variants, tend to get pretty thick around the middle with two
    strokes. There are several currency signs which call for double strokes: Yen (U+00A5),
    Colon (U+20A1), French Franc (U+20A3), Lira (U+20A4, as noted in the Unicode document,
    this is like the Sterling symbol but with two horizontal strokes; most people
    chose to use the Sterling glyph instead.), Naira (U+20A6), Won (U+20A9), Tugrik
    (U+20AE; the double strokes are angled), and Peso (U+20B1). And probably some
    more. \r\n\r\nIn my life I have been called on to revise a double-stroke Sterling
    glyph to better differentiate it from the Euro."
  created: '2006-02-16 22:46:13'
- author:
    name: .
  body: John, our posts crossed in the afternoon! Apparently the Italians planned
    to adopt the Lira symbol in their usual way, saying "domani, domani..." until
    the Euro was introduced. Yet another example of the massive cost benefits of procrastination.
  created: '2006-02-16 22:49:10'
- author:
    name: .
  body: BTW, Kris is in New Zealand, so has just as much - if not more - insight on
    the design of the NZ$ symbol as his client. But, clients are always right, aren't
    they?
  created: '2006-02-16 22:50:37'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "\u2026well, the Euro must have two bars, but sometimes you spot great examples
    with just one bar, too!"
  created: '2006-02-16 22:53:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Dan, The euro must always have a lower case 'e' - except in Germany and the
    Adobe PS name ;-)\r\n\r\nNothing in the wikipedia related to the design of the
    NZ$, wheras the US$ entry does talk about the design... \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/New_Zealand_dollar
    \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/United_States_dollar\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dollar\r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Euro\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-16 23:21:01'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Si, I thought that the Euro was cap-E'd, not just because the official Unicode
    name is (curiously) capitalised, but because of the etymological origins of the
    name. Or pehaps the currency is the euro, but the logotype which represents it
    is the Euro. It's all very Cartesian, or maybe I mean cartesian...
  created: '2006-02-17 06:31:50'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Si, I thought that the Euro was cap-E'd, not just because the official Unicode
    name is (curiously) capitalised, but because of the etymological origins of the
    name. Or pehaps the currency is the euro, but the logotype which represents it
    is the Euro. It's all very Cartesian, or maybe I mean cartesian...
  created: '2006-02-17 06:31:51'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "About the euro\r\n\r\nhttp://www.cs.tut.fi/~jkorpela/html/euro.html"
  created: '2006-02-17 08:21:22'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Sorry chester, I've heard Si's point before. According to some EU rule, the
    word \"euro\" is always to be written with a lowercase e. The German-speaking
    countries got an exception, since German capitalizes the first letter in nouns
    (der Euro).\r\n\r\nI presume, however, that euro may also be written EURO, since
    eURO would just be silly ;-)\r\n\r\nOf course, type designers could just go around
    calling the euro the Euro\u2026 we don't seem to hold ourselves to the strict
    guidelines for the design of the Euro symbol, either.\r\n\r\nBut you should get
    this\u2026 what if everyone started calling you Chester (with a capital C)?"
  created: '2006-02-17 08:25:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I thought that the Euro was cap-E\u2019d, not just because the official
    Unicode name is (curiously) capitalised</em>\r\n\r\nYou mean the official Adobe
    Glyph List name (all Unicode names are all caps: U+20AC = EURO SIGN). David Lemon
    explained a few years ago that he had seen 'Euro' written capitalised in a number
    of places, so capitalised it in the AGL, despite the fact that no other currency
    symbol glyph names are capitalised."
  created: '2006-02-17 08:46:18'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"what if everyone started calling you Chester (with a capital C)?\"\r\n\r\nBut
    dan, then they would start looking for Mr. Dillon next to him :-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nostalgiacentral.com/tv/drama/gunsmoke.htm\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-17 13:25:44'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "e. e. cummings and I had this conversation all the time...\r\n\r\nSince I
    have taken to designing all of my currency symbols in both majuscule/lining and
    miniscule/oldstyle, I propose that Euro refer to the former, and euro to the latter.
    (Ditto Dollar and dollar, Yen and yen, etc.) This is consistent with the names
    for letters, like Dcaron and dcaron, Eth and eth, etc."
  created: '2006-02-17 13:34:09'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Good idea!\r\n\r\nIs a Dollar sign with just one bar a \"dolar\"?"
  created: '2006-02-17 13:46:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Just like Spanish?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-17 13:57:48'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Dan, yes! the oldstyle one is the dolar, and the lining one is the Dolar!
  created: '2006-02-17 14:13:29'
- author:
    name: Niels
    picture: 112046
  body: "To add more fuel to this fire...\r\n\r\nAs an Australian graphic designer
    and typographer I have been faced with the one slash versus two a couple of times
    in my career. The request to use the single stroke dollar sign usually comes from
    editors and seems to stem from an ingrained cultural bias against the double stoke,
    in that it is associated with the US dollar. There is some colloquial evidence
    to suggest that Australians adopted the single stroke dollar sign after WW2 to
    differentiate the Australian Dollar from the US dollar, essentially an attempt
    to distance  us from the 'Seppos' (charming rhyming slang, Americans > Yanks >
    Septic tanks > Seppos). I imagine the Kiwis acted on equal sentiments..."
  created: '2007-07-31 08:16:10'
- author:
    name: guifa
    picture: 112214
  body: "The font used for  official United States diplomatic documents (except for
    telegraphs and a few other exceptions), as well as its predecessor, has a single-stroked
    dollar sign.  (14pt Times New Roman, 12pt Courier New before).  Actually Courier
    New has the half-lines, only above and below the S.\r\n\r\nOn the Mac I'm posting
    from right now, there are 336 typefaces available, this is based on a standard
    Mac OS X Tiger install with MS Office, Matlab, MAPLE, and TeX installed as well.
    \ Of those 336, just over a dozen have the double stroke.  More have the broken
    stroke than a double stroke, although the single unbroken stroke is by far the
    most common.\r\n\r\nOT: Niels, I've always thought it odd when I hear Aussies
    referring to us insulting as Seppos, since calling us, or at least those in my
    region, a Yank would be far more offensive/insulting (but then again, I'm from
    the Deep South).\r\n\r\n<em>\xABEl futuro es una l\xEDnea tan fina que apenas
    nos damos cuenta de pintarla nosotros mismos\xBB. (La Luz Oscura, por Javier Guerrero)</em>"
  created: '2007-07-31 08:56:01'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: Maybe the number of strokes should represent the value of the currency compared
    to the USD. If that is the case, Canada is very nearly back to a two stroke symbol,
    and with another few years of Bush economics, we might make it to a three stroke
    S.
  created: '2007-08-01 14:03:18'
- author:
    name: Niels
    picture: 112046
  body: "I've just had another look at this forum, and although a little off the topic,
    but still relevant, is this little tidbit:\r\nThe dollar sign  actually evolved
    from a mark that is a representation of p8, the contraction of 'pieces of 8' (Spanish
    currency used in the Americas). It evolved into the 'S' with the two bars. Mechanical
    reproduction of type caused the removal of the second bar as the two thin lines
    so close to each other would cause ink to run, or blend into one line anyway.
    Hence one bar. Type designers are now even doing away with the part of the bar
    inside the character.\r\nN."
  created: '2007-08-28 05:14:58'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "<cite>There are several currency signs which call for double strokes: Yen
    (U+00A5), Colon (U+20A1), French Franc (U+20A3), Lira (U+20A4, as noted in the
    Unicode document, this is like the Sterling symbol but with two horizontal strokes;
    most people chose to use the Sterling glyph instead.), Naira (U+20A6), Won (U+20A9),
    Tugrik (U+20AE; the double strokes are angled), and Peso (U+20B1). And probably
    some more.</cite> \r\n\r\nFor what it's worth, the won symbol (\u20A9) can have
    one or two horizontal strokes. I'm not even sure which version I'd use in my own
    handwriting though. Maybe a slight preference for two strokes... The thing is,
    Koreans don't use the symbol that often in ordinary writing, and instead write
    out 'won' in Hangul (the Korean alphabet; it's not that long). We see it on price
    tags, printed out. Many fonts use the one-stroke variant.\r\n\r\nIf I remember
    correctly, the symbol for yen or yuan (\xA5) can also have one or two strokes;
    the Japanese prefer two for the yen symbol, while the Chinese seem to use the
    one-stroke version a lot more for the yuan symbol.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I cannot
    for the life of me remember for certain if the written shorthand for Kenyan shillings
    (or colloquially, 'bobs') is '/-' or '/='. I remembered it as '/=', but <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shilling\">the
    Wikipedia article on 'shilling'</a> has it as '/-', and now I'm dreadfully confused.
    It's as though the fact that one-stroke and two-stroke versions are interchangeable
    in many currency symbols is messing with my memory. Well, it <em>has</em> been
    more than six years since I left Kenya...\r\n\r\nI suspect both '/-' and '/='
    are used, with a preference for '/=' in Kenya, but does anyone know for sure?"
  created: '2007-08-28 06:28:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Different strokes for different blokes :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2007-08-28 14:03:23'
- author:
    name: danielH
  body: "Kris-\r\n\r\nGuess what.\r\n\r\nIf a dollar symbol has only one strike, it
    means the backing behind the currency is void, like the symbols \u0424, which
    only has one strike.\r\n\r\nIf a dollar symbol has two strikes, it means the currency
    is backed by substance, such as silver.\r\n\r\nStatutory government, which operates
    in pure fiction, only recognizes the single strike version of the currency.\r\n\r\nIf
    you provide a double-strike symbol in a statutory government document, they won't
    know how to recognize the symbol.  In fact, if it is a court case, they might
    throw it out, because courtrooms only operate in fiction, unless they are in the
    common law."
  created: '2008-08-09 23:33:16'
- author:
    name: danielH
  body: "Kris, If you have access to a dollar symbol with two strikes in it, I sure
    would appreciate a reference to it.\r\n\r\nI can't tell you how hard it is to
    find that symbol, because fiction is all around us.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nDaniel"
  created: '2008-08-09 23:36:35'
- author:
    name: danielH
  body: "Niels-\r\n\r\nIn accordance with my previous two posts, the single strike
    dollar is used because the dollar is disconnected from the gold standard."
  created: '2008-08-09 23:42:07'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'Daniel, do you have any reputable sources for this? If not maybe a wikipedia
    page? '
  created: '2008-08-10 14:52:29'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: Indeed, the gold standard relation to the double stroked dollar sign does
    sound a bit like a tinfoil-hat level conspiracy theory. Even if it is technically
    correct, it comes off daffy.
  created: '2008-08-10 20:23:56'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "[[Hermann Zapf]]\u2019s [[Palatino]] Linotype (the version that ships with
    Windows) has both versions. The single stroke version is the default (U+0024).
    Its small-caps feature only the single stroke version.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/palatino-currency_4653.png]\r\n\r\nPalatino
    also has two versions of the Yen sign (\xA5). Then, there\u2019s an alternative
    Pound (\xA3) glyph which descends below the baseline. The double stroke \xA3 is
    actually the Lira sign (\u20A4).\r\nF"
  created: '2008-08-11 16:26:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That double-stroke dollar sign sure would be a pain with very bold fonts.
    I have enough trouble with the single bar.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2008-08-11 18:37:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dollar_4289.png]'
  created: '2008-08-11 18:51:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dollar2_5844.png]'
  created: '2008-08-11 19:01:29'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Capshrek_5397.JPG]'
  created: '2008-08-11 23:08:15'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Wow, a triple-bar dollar sign. Is that real? Looks more like a musical clef.
    \r\n\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-11-24 13:35:28'
- author:
    name: fiat currency
  body: "Hello! I was once addicted to typography. Was surfing and this popped up.
    Thought you would like to know the story about the US dollar sign. The $ symbol
    indicates fiat currency which we currently use. It's a worthless debt instrument.
    The double bars in the old symbol indicated US the U was cropped off. The double
    bars indicated that it was true currency redeemable upon demand. In 1965 all the
    typewriters changed over to the single bar. Old ones all have the double bar.
    \r\n\r\nSo, two bars is when we had a pot to piss in.\r\n\r\none bar is what we
    currently use, worthless pieces of paper backed by nothing more than guns. \r\n\r\nHave
    fun digging up that skeletion!\r\n\r\n\\311"
  created: '2009-04-24 04:59:09'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: "<cite>The double bars in the old symbol indicated US the U was cropped off.</cite>\r\n\r\nExcept
    for the inconvenient fact that the symbol is older than the US. "
  created: '2009-04-25 04:04:43'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "> In 1965 all the typewriters changed over to the single bar. \r\n\r\nThat
    would be fascinating, if it were true.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-27 05:14:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "> In 1965 all the typewriters changed over to the single bar.\r\n\r\nI don't
    remember that happening and I would have noticed.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-04-27 06:52:51'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I just realized my sarcasm on that point might have been read as mere mild
    doubt. I was saying \"that never happened,\" just a bit obliquely.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2009-04-27 17:34:39'
- author:
    name: cuttlefish
    picture: 111881
  body: "Conspiracy theories and urban legends and total speculation; are these the
    sources we turn to for the origin of the dollar sign, and whether it should have
    one or two (or three) bars?\r\n\r\nMyths and legends are great stories, and sometimes
    have useful advice buried within them, but shouldn't be counted on for technical
    specifications."
  created: '2009-04-27 20:52:37'
- author:
    name: Michael Bishop
  body: "I use the double bar whenever I write the dollar sign by hand (in Canada).
    The reason may have to do with the fact that I played a lot of Monopoly when I
    was young and there was a double bar dollar sign on the game cover from the 1970's.\r\n\r\nI
    thought that the current, pervasive use of the single bar dollar sign had to do
    with the advent of the personal computer and the decision to use the single stroke
    $ symbol to denote a 'string' in the early computer programming languages. Since
    the first users of the personal computer were mostly programmers, I imagine that
    it would have made sense to put the string key $ on the keyboard rather than the
    dollar sign (with double bar). Or rather, if my history is wrong and a single
    bar dollar sign was in fact an acceptable or current form at that time (but I
    was too young to know it), then the single bar dollar sign was likely chosen since
    it would show up better on small, lower-res computer screens and with the low-res
    dot-matrix computer printers. As everybody uses computers now to write rather
    than by hand, with the printed word following the type found on the computer (e.g.
    newspapers, price stickers, etc.), we seem to be stuck with the single bar dollar
    sign. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/monopoly$_3521.jpg]"
  created: '2009-07-21 15:01:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I thought it was all because of the greatly devalued dollar--it is no-longer
    worth two strikes :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2009-07-21 15:18:09'
- author:
    name: "Andreas St\xF6tzner"
    picture: 112329
  body: "@ Nick Shin: Well done the thick one! and the triple-stroked. Please offer
    a four-stroked variant (which I suggest to call the \u201CGuantanamo-Dollar\u201D
    \u2026 ;-)"
  created: '2009-07-22 10:33:31'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "> It\u2019s a worthless debt instrument.\r\n\r\nI missed that post yesterday.
    If you have any of those worthless debt instruments lying around, I'll be glad
    to take them off your hands."
  created: '2009-07-22 13:41:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good post, Pablo.\r\n\r\nBut what's that symbol just below 9 o'clock on that
    coin?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-10 05:11:14'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "The text on the coin means \"By the Grace of God, King of Spain and the West
    Indies.\"\r\n\r\nThe symbol just below 9 o'clock is the assayer's monogram.\r\nHere
    is another coin featuring a different monogram.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/20120813_8r2_5127.JPG]\r\n\r\n8R
    means \"Ocho Reales\".\r\nThe last 2 initials are related to the current king
    name, or something like that."
  created: '2013-01-10 05:37:42'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: "The symbol just below 9 o'clock is the mint mark. For the first coin it is
    a Potos\xED monogram; for the second it is the Mo abbreviation for Mexico City.
    The last two initials belong to the assayers."
  created: '2013-01-10 06:59:17'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: "<blockquote>\r\nIf I say my rate is $80 per hour, they say, \"What! I can
    get some young guy to do it for half that price!\" At which point, should I refer
    them to you? :-)\r\n</blockquote>\r\n\r\nToo bad you can't just put them in front
    of a computer with font editing software and say, \"Or you could do it yourself,
    for nothing!\""
  created: '2013-01-10 13:34:41'
- author:
    name: dumpling
  body: "As for that old coin:\r\n\r\nFrom what I understand, centuries ago in my
    country (the U.S.), not only did they use those old Spanish coins and call them
    \"dollars\", they used to make change with a hacksaw!!"
  created: '2013-01-10 13:41:06'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Not a hacksaw: nippers. Too much silver would have been lost using a saw,
    which produces shavings.\r\n\r\nFYI, \u201CPieces of Eight\u201D were pieces of
    the 8 real coin, nipped into eighths, quarters or halves."
  created: '2013-01-10 18:36:02'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "<blockquote> a single strike rather than a double </blockquote>\r\n\r\nToday,
    Bolivia is one of the poorest countries in South America.\r\nIronically it was
    the largest producer of Silver ever known to mankind.\r\n\r\n41,000 metric tons
    of pure silver were mined from Cerro Rico from 1556 to 1783 by Spanish invaders,
    killing thousands of natives in the process. And, as the local indians where to
    few, they also imported African slaves to keep mining Potos\xED silver.\r\n\r\nAs
    a result of this exploitation, the spanish silver coins experienced an enormous
    global boom, and became the most widespread currency in the world in the 18th
    century.  The spanish Potos\xED silver coins where accepted by traders all around
    the world. It became the first 'World Currency'.\r\n\r\n\u201CVale un Potosi\u201D
    (It is worth a Potosi) became a commonly used expression to describe vast wealth,
    after Quixote blurted it out in Cervantes\u2019s Don Quixote.\r\n\r\nThese coins
    where also know as the \"Spanish dollar\".\r\nThe Spanish dollar was the coin
    upon which the original United States dollar was based, and the Potos\xED silver
    coins remained legal tender in the United States until the Coinage Act of 1857.\r\n\r\nThe
    coins looked like this:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/potosi-coins_4878.png]\r\n\r\nSome
    theories suggests that the Dollar sign we know today, is the result of removing
    the spanish coat of arms from the middle of the coin,  and merging the 2 remaining
    columns together under one unified ribbon."
  created: '2013-01-10 22:42:16'
- author:
    name: PabloImpallari
    picture: 119114
  body: "A little more info:\r\n\r\nThe text in the ribbons used to say: \"Plus Ultra\"
    (Latin for \"further beyond\").\r\nThe motto was used to encourage Spanish sailors
    to disregard ancient Greek Mythology warnings about the Pillars of Hercules, and
    send them to explore the new world.\r\nThus, the two vertical lines represent
    the Pillars of Hercules. And the s-shaped ribbon represent the desire to go beyond
    limits and conquer the world.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-10 23:11:45'
- author:
    name: HVB
    picture: 111370
  body: "Hence the term \"2 bits\" for 25\xA2. That is, 2 of the pieces of a Real
    that had been cut into eighths.\r\n - Herb"
  created: '2013-01-11 00:23:42'
date: '2006-02-16 21:25:51'
title: Localised dollar signs

---
