---
author:
  name: karenhuang
  picture: 110589
body: "Ha! Got you didn't I?\r\n\r\nCoke now has a droplet logo for <a href=\"http://www2.coca-cola.com/makeeverydropcount/index.html\"
  target=\"blank\">The Coca Cola Company</a>, along with the tagline, \"Make every
  drop count.\" This is apparently in a move to differentiate Coke, the soft-drink,
  from Coke the company which \"now provides nearly 400 products in over 200 countries.\"\r\n\r\nI
  first read it at <a href=\"http://www.beadesigngroup.com/blog/archives/2006/02/the_new_coke_identity.html#more\"
  target=\"blank\">Be A Design Group</a>.\r\n\r\nWell, it's almost as bad as the New
  Coke. Seems like most people (currently 3) don't like it. \r\n\r\nI always say,
  <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/252\"> be careful what you ask for</a>."
comments:
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Marketing gone mad\u2026\r\nSuddenly I feel like a drip.\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-02-20 16:30:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I wish they would \"Just drop it\" \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-20 16:52:05'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Reminds me of Folgers - good to the last drop. Sorry Coke, but I don't think
    people really care about Coca-Cola - "The Company." Make good stuff to drink and
    people will buy it.
  created: '2006-02-20 17:14:46'
- author:
    name: karenhuang
    picture: 110589
  body: "Haha. \r\n\r\nI would've dropped the droplets. Seeing how awkward they look
    next to the original script. That script has been around since (when?), and the
    droplets just look so cold next to the script.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-20 17:16:55'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Reminds me of Dave Chappelle doing R. Kelley, "Drip, Drip, Drip".
  created: '2006-02-20 18:02:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: 'SQUEEZE IT DRY BABY!!!!!! DON''T WASTE A DROP!!!!!  A DROP IN TIME SAVES
    NINE!!!! A DROP IN THE GLASS IS WORTH TWO IN THE BOTTLE!!! DON''T DROP THE BALL!!!!! '
  created: '2006-02-20 18:48:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "DRIP 'TIL YOU SLIP :-)\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-20 18:51:47'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'As the commentator says in your link, the drops look a bit awkward with the
    script logo. But in themselves I think are a success, and very flexible for use
    in different graphic situations. Compared to the horrors like the AT&T redesign
    this is very good, even if it has some problems. '
  created: '2006-02-20 19:32:48'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "Looks like The Coca Cola Gompany, and beats you over (and over) the head
    with the tagline's (un)wittiness.\r\n\r\nThis is a lesson by example to every
    designer of what not to do: choose the first and most obvious path available.
    I concur with Paul\u2014marketing is a truly scary thing."
  created: '2006-02-20 19:34:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...But in themselves I think are a success, and very flexible for use in
    different graphic situations. \"\r\n\r\nSo flexible that they can be used and
    confused by anyone with a  liquid product. This is truly clip-art design of the
    worst kind.  \r\nIt was done much better by Calgon years ago in their water softener
    packaging.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-20 20:45:20'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">clip-art design of the worst kind\r\n\r\nOk the more I look at it the worse
    it looks with the script. But a lot of the problem is the script itself with both
    the logo with two baselines--which looks great on its own--but then the 'The'
    and 'Company' aligning with only 'Cola' making the thing unbalanced. And then
    the sans at the bottom plus the logo. It is just over over-done and busy.\r\n\r\nBut
    it other contexts I don't see the drops as bad. 'The obvious is better than the
    obvious avoidance of the obvious.' Of course it is much better if it looks fresh
    but natural and logical and simple. But I don't think the idea of multi-colored
    drops is so bad, just the execution with the logo.  "
  created: '2006-02-20 21:25:31'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: 'It seems that the people at Coke had this conversation: Hey AT&T can go really
    ugly so why not top them with a forced look. Lets see how many unrelated elements
    we can tie together.'
  created: '2006-02-20 21:49:53'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: 'I figured this started with Target''s use of their logo-as-pattern: now everybody
    wants one. Of course Target''s wallpaper idea is only the most prominent example
    of a lower-profile design trend of having grids of little dots everywhere.'
  created: '2006-02-20 22:40:55'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "so is this just a campaign, or is this mark going to eventually replace the
    script? it doesn't seem like a full fledged \"at&t\" style re-brand\u2026 i don't
    get it!\r\n \r\nis this another Interbrand hackjob or what??\r\n\r\n------------\r\nnc"
  created: '2006-02-20 23:50:20'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "\r\nI think the drip symbol would suite a 'water company' better.\r\n\r\nhttp://images.google.com/images?q=water+logo&btnG=Search&svnum=10&hl=en&lr="
  created: '2006-02-20 23:52:01'
- author:
    name: cerulean
    picture: 129904
  body: Oh gods. It looks like a Microsoft Windows logo. This will all end in teardrops.
  created: '2006-02-21 01:36:18'
- author:
    name: karenhuang
    picture: 110589
  body: "> \u2018The obvious is better than the obvious avoidance of the obvious.\u2019\r\nMaybe
    true, but nothing should have to be so obvious.\r\n\r\nTo me this logo is particularly
    bad because of it's lack of subtlety. To paraphrase pica_pusher, it hits you over
    the head with a number of things:\r\n1. That the Coke company is not Coke the
    drink (look how different we are!)\r\n2. That the Coke company is still strongly
    tied to Coke the drink (see! we're keeping the script!)\r\n3. That the Coke company
    makes many many different types of drinks (can we have about 400 droplets? No?
    How about five?)\r\n\r\n> But I don\u2019t think the idea of multi-colored drops
    is so bad, just the execution with the logo.\r\nI think it's a lame idea made
    worse by insensitive execution.\r\n\r\nI don't know why but I can hear the client
    asking for all sorts of things when I look at the logo. \r\n"
  created: '2006-02-21 08:33:56'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Coca-Cola <em>are</em> <a href=\"http://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/uk/3523303.stm\">a
    water company</a>\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-02-21 11:37:20'
- author:
    name: hungryghost
  body: "\"This is truly clip-art design of the worst kind\".\r\n\r\nI definitely
    agree. Even without understanding the strategic reasons for this rebrand/campaign/whatever
    it is, the message 'in everything we do, we give up drops of ourselves' is trite
    at best, and downright unappetizing at worst. There's something vaguely unappealing
    about linking a soft drink with the bodily fluids of wonderfully diverse ethnic
    groups enjoying themselves on a beach.\r\n\r\nThe solid drops - quite apart from
    being badly drawn and composed - do nothing to suggest refreshment and the thirst
    quenching properties that you come to expect from fizzy pop. I don't think I'll
    be able to buy a Coke now without wondering exactly how much blood, sweat and
    tears (and worse) has gone into it.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-21 12:18:54'
- author:
    name: Brian_
    picture: 110618
  body: "I agree, I immediately thought \"blood drive\".\r\nIf people can refer to
    a color as (brand name)-color then DON'T MESS WITH THE COLOR. I do like bright
    colors - Kinko's/Fed-Ex is beautiful, BP is great, but you have to know what you're
    doing. This just comes off patchy and the primary colors make it look childish.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-22 04:08:27'
- author:
    name: Sieger
  body: "... This is sort of a shame, in my eyes it really doesn't work and I agree
    this is work of a marketeer. \r\n\r\nI read an articel about how the Coca Cola
    Company is introducing a new type of bottle and bottlesystem (atleast here in
    holland) and I was verry impressed by it and how they take the lead in that market.\r\n\r\nBut
    when I see this new absurd addition to the oh so cool typographic logo I wonder
    what went wrong here, okey there is a story behind it, but it comes off very very
    cheap.\r\n\r\nI give it a year or two and then it has died a lonely and silent
    death... I hope"
  created: '2006-02-23 07:50:40'
- author:
    name: danwoodward
    picture: 110833
  body: 'I agree that it won''t last that long, as this look is way too trendy and
    won''t last long enough to establish itself as strong mark.  Check out the bahamas
    mess of  rainbow colorful shapes http://www.bahamas.com/bahamas/index.aspx,  it
    kinda works for them, but for coke?.  '
  created: '2006-02-23 19:17:16'
- author:
    name: typograffiti
    picture: 110849
  body: 'Way to beat the dumb DRIP consumers over the head, Coke! '
  created: '2006-02-23 21:15:43'
- author:
    name: Jinky Williams
    picture: 111384
  body: "I've always *loved* the Bahamas logo. I can only wonder how much it costs
    to run, though. I heard that those are all spot colors. But that could have been
    just a rumor.\r\n\r\nBut regarding the new Coke logo: I hope it stays in the temp
    webpage that it's at right now, and then gets canned. They have developed untold-of
    amounts of equity because of their amazing branding. The last thing I could think
    they'd want to do is a re-creation of the \"New Coke\" fiasco they did.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    this could be a re-situating themselves at a corporate level which may never touch
    their branding strategy on a end-user level.\r\n\r\nWe'll just have to wait and
    see.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-23 21:34:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Leah,\r\nWhy the Girl Scout logo as your avatar?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-23 22:12:12'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "<cite>Why the Girl Scout logo as your avatar?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhy not, Chris?
    They're so freakin' delcious...especially the Caramel DeLites! I could eat a whole
    box of those. :-D"
  created: '2006-02-23 22:23:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That's the way the cookie crumbles David :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-23 22:56:12'
- author:
    name: typograffiti
    picture: 110849
  body: That's right David Bailey, it's because I'm SO FREAKIN' DELICIOIUS! How did
    you know?
  created: '2006-02-24 00:34:28'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "Leah, I had a quick look at your work and realised I have one of the books,
    Weirdo Deluxe. ;)\r\n\r\nNice work by the way."
  created: '2006-02-24 00:41:54'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "A company synonymous with it's flagship product is a tough branding job.
    I don't envy the people that had to do this work because it's like messing with
    the cave paintings at Lascaux, you just don't do it. \r\n\r\nCoca Cola the company
    vs. Coca Cola the drink... it's the same problem Word Perfect had, and Saturn
    when they first got started. \r\n\r\nPS -- Do we need a demerit system for people
    who make puns in these forums. There are more puns in here than there are ideas.
    =P"
  created: '2006-02-24 00:50:22'
- author:
    name: theorosendorf
    picture: 128241
  body: "Finally.\r\nThank you Joe.\r\nI worked on the Make Every Drop Count campaign.
    Didn't do the logo, but worked on the project.\r\nThis is a first for The Coca-Cola
    Company. One for the history books.\r\n\r\n~\r\nTheodore Rosendorf\r\nhttp://rosendorf.us"
  created: '2006-02-24 01:24:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Do we need a demerit system for people who make puns in these forums.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    thought has merit :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-24 01:56:12'
- author:
    name: PL
    picture: 111316
  body: "I went to a little brunch and low and behold look what i found on the paper
    cups![img:sites/default/files/old-images/Image060.jpg]\r\nit is actually nice
    on a paper cup. I wonder if they had these cups at their marketing brainstrumming
    sessions?"
  created: '2006-02-24 07:50:57'
- author:
    name: PL
    picture: 111316
  body: "I went to Ikea and look what I found!\r\nThey use the coca cola logo for
    their sinks. \r\nThey better watch out  - they may have a law suit coming. \r\n\r\nQUESTION:\r\ndo
    the coke drops look like beverage drops or more like tear drops?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Image059.jpg]"
  created: '2006-02-24 07:58:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "More than anything what bugs me about this is the vapid new age copy:\r\nDrops
    to Inspire You?\r\nOuch. But I guess they had to make a decision on what one would
    find least offensive, the copy or the new logo\u2026\r\nThis has all the hallmarks
    of a new CEOs hubris. Is there a new headmaster in town?\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-02-24 16:14:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"This has all the hallmarks of a new CEOs hubris.\"\r\n\r\nOr an old advertising
    VP who has his butt on the line for doing nothing :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-24 17:55:03'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "What do you get when you cross PT Barnum with Dr. Phil?\r\nA person that
    thinks you're so stupid you need help.\r\nCynical Optimism\r\nthe new marketing\u2026
    \r\nMaybe they discovered a stash of the original formula.\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-02-25 03:30:44'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "Theodore - you said you worked on the project; can you shed any light on
    the development of this thing or are you bound by NDAs from here to kingdome come?\r\n\r\nI'd
    be interested to hear your thoughts on the results too."
  created: '2006-02-26 18:28:08'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I would like to apologize for my last post. This is a design board and I
    don't have a big problem with the design (although it seems like too many ideas
    to create something cohesive). My problem is with the campaign tone, but that
    is another story\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-02-26 19:33:47'
- author:
    name: theorosendorf
    picture: 128241
  body: "pica pusher - I apologize for the late reply. Can this site send out notifications?\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    I am bound by NDAs, though I'm not sure what is and what isn't public knowledge
    at this point. I know that Coke isn't commenting to the media and the agencies
    that did the work aren't allowed to comment. The media's asking - no one's talking.\r\n\r\nI
    can say that the current verison of the logo is much better than what it initially
    was when work the on campaign begun. It was tightened up a bit. You may be interested
    to know who did and reworked the logo. I'll find out if I can say.\r\n\r\nSorry
    to be so cryptic..."
  created: '2006-03-06 04:17:37'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "my boss recently told me that \u201Cyou can\u2019t get chicken soup from
    chicken poop.\u201D \r\n\r\nthis must have been an incredibly tough project, and
    I respect anyone who would be expected to make the new \u201Cdrip\u201D logo work.
    \r\n\r\nregardless, i don\u2019t think it\u2019s working yet.\r\n\r\n\r\n------------\r\nnc\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-06 19:31:43'
- author:
    name: karenhuang
    picture: 110589
  body: "Yeah, how can we get notified when someone posts to a thread?\r\n\r\nRosendorf,
    can you say which agency did the logo yet?"
  created: '2006-03-14 20:31:10'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Karen,\r\nI check the My Topics button in the forums window, that shows which
    thread has a new post that you have already contributed to (or started).\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-03-15 09:44:44'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "bought this with a Ruby a few weeks ago in Brixton South London. And it had
    a pull tab!!! Either very old or they still sell pull tab cans in the Arab speaking
    part of the world.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/coke640.jpg]"
  created: '2006-03-15 17:03:40'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "Can someone who speaks Arabic confirm whether that Coke logo looks totally
    amateurish? The line quality reminds me uncomfortably of drawing with a mouse
    and Illustrator's brush tool, not to mention the two arrowheads on the bottommost
    character...\r\n\r\nAnyway Theodore: Sorry to hear that it's all hushed up. I'm
    still interested in the motivations behind this project."
  children:
  - author:
      name: theorosendorf
      picture: 128241
    body: "Probably a dead thread by now.\r\nPentagram fixed it, and a good job too,
      but still not sure about the original designer(s)...\r\n\r\nAny one know who
      did the original?\r\n\r\n~\r\nTheodore Rosendorf\r\nhttp://rosendorf.us"
    created: '2006-07-12 23:17:33'
  created: '2006-03-25 00:47:33'
- author:
    name: theorosendorf
    picture: 128241
  body: "Can you guys believe I'm still trying to get a definitive answer? I'm sure
    you guys will find out before I can see if I can talk. Ugh...\r\n\r\n~\r\nTheodore
    Rosendorf\r\nhttp://rosendorf.us"
  created: '2006-04-05 06:44:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it\u2019s like messing with the cave paintings at Lascaux\r\n\r\nEasy easy,
    generationext.\r\n\r\nWhen it comes to Coke and rock painting, here's what might
    come to\r\nmind instead: http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/south_asia/2263917.stm\r\n\r\n>
    Can someone who speaks Arabic confirm\r\n> whether that Coke logo looks totally
    amateurish?\r\n\r\nActually it looks fine (although the connections of the \"waw\"s,
    the looped\r\nmiddle letters, to the following letters is \"incorrect\"). Not
    great, but fine.\r\nAnd it's nicely not Latinized. Although the Arabic 7-Up logo
    whips it bad.\r\n\r\nBTW, pull-tabs are a man's tabs. They provide for a unique
    and... handy test of one's manual dexterity and power that the pansy swivel/push-tab
    does not: try opening a pull-tab can with one hand without resting the can on
    anything. And what to do with the tab? A man's man removes it completely and dumps
    it in through the hole, before starting to drink the beverage of course. And don't
    forget, all with one motion, with the can in the air the whole time. Shoo abada\xEF.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 08:39:57'
- author:
    name: lunyboy
    picture: 110638
  body: Whoa, Hrant spikes the ball, jeez... why do I even bother to post :(
  created: '2006-04-11 01:50:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "... and then the man's man climbs into his Hummer and drives down all the
    poor little cars on the road.\r\n\r\n=^P"
  created: '2006-04-11 17:11:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually, the man's man drives (using the term loosely) an early-80s BMW
    733, metallic green, with velvet drapes in the rear window. And multiple bullet
    holes. From an AK-47. On the left side.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-11 17:21:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: =^P ehehe. Ok. Well I don't have the correct chromosome to take this any further.
  created: '2006-04-11 17:25:33'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Hrant - Don't forget the aftershave\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-11 17:50:17'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Well some want to be a <a href="http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/entrez/query.fcgi?cmd=Retrieve&db=PubMed&list_uids=6473574&dopt=Abstract">man''s
    man or a ladies'' man</a>. And some try to be a <a href="http://www.mentsh.com">mentsh</a>.  '
  created: '2006-04-11 19:49:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "At least no man is an island :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-11 20:31:52'
date: '2006-02-20 16:07:58'
node_type: forum
title: New Coke Logo

---
