---
author:
  name: Palatine
  picture: 110988
body: "Since [[TrueType]] is nearly the same as [[OpenType]], will TrueType (in the
  future) be supported by major software makers alongside OpenType? I do know that
  PostScript will be phased out eventually (unsupported by Avalon, for example.)\r\n\r\nI've
  got quite a few quality TrueType fonts and I'm a bit worried."
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "OpenType is simply an extension of the TrueType format, adding some purely
    optional tables to the basic sfnt structure. To a system or an application that
    doesn't understand the OpenType Layout tables, a TT flavour OT font is largely
    indistinguishable from any other TrueType font. The same rasterisers are used
    for TT and TT-OT fonts, so I don't think you have to worry about TT longevity.\r\n\r\nAlso
    note that your comment about PostScript fonts is not accurate: it is specifically
    Type 1 fonts that are likely to be phased out and which are not supported in Avalon.
    PostScript CFF OT fonts are supported in Avalon."
  created: '2006-02-22 03:20:26'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I agree with John's comments, with the caveat that the legacy Mac OS flavor
    of TrueType, with its resource fork and suitcase, may not be as long-lived (nor
    is it as versatile). The Windows flavor of TrueType and its descendants such as
    OpenType will be with us for the foreseeable future.\r\n\r\nNow, of course it
    is easy to convert Classic Mac TrueType to the cross-platform .ttf variety, but
    that may or may not be allowable depending on one's font licenses.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-02-22 08:08:54'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Well, well. I really got it wrong when I said that Windows would support
    Type 1, including MM, for at least the next ten years. \r\n\r\nSo: cui bono? \r\n\r\nFirst,
    let's look at the history: Adobe's so worried that nobody's buying Type 1 fonts
    for Windows, and nobody's buying ATM for Windows, that it gives away ATM to MS.
    And nothing happens. It still doesn't make any money. So what choice is there
    but to do what everyone has always done in the past? Change the format and make
    everybody buy the base library again. I didn't think it could be done. But it
    does mean that every graphic designer who is serious about fonts and licensing
    them, not to mention every service bureau, will have to ante up again, about $10,000
    and up, for new font libraries. This will really benefit Adobe, Linotype, Font
    Bureau, and everyone else whose libraries are gold standards. \r\n\r\nBut that's
    only on Windows. What if publishing people all stay on Macs? What if Mac market
    share increases? That seemed out of the question four years ago but it doesn't
    seem out of the question now. Not when you have a computer company run by Walt
    Disney II, and that remarkable iPod success, and Intel chips. \r\n\r\nCui bono?
    \r\n\r\nThis could be rather painful for users but a lifesaving shot in the arm
    for foundries. Strange that MS is being so sympathetic to foundries' existential
    grief all of a sudden. Or is it really that sudden?"
  created: '2006-02-23 08:42:43'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: 'I can''t speak for any other foundry, but I intend to modify my EULA to permit
    format conversion for personal and/or professional use, but not for resale: I
    don''t believe in punishing loyal customers.'
  created: '2006-02-23 12:37:34'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "It's kind of a win-win situation, isn't it?\r\n\r\nSmaller foundries will
    gain customers' hearts by permitting conversions or even supplying conversions.
    (Supplying conversions is probably a better idea, since homemade conversions could
    fail to work, which would reflect badly on the foundry. As well, consider that
    many users will be unwilling to do their own conversions for many good and bad
    reasons.) But that won't affect the larger foundries, because if you need Linotype
    Janson, you need Linotype Janson. \r\n\r\nBut Nick, I think I might be reluctant
    to replace a font bought ten years ago. What do you think?  After a certain number
    of years, doesn't the foundry deserve a little more revenue? And isn't it a little
    snarky of the user to suppose that after ten years of using your software, he
    doesn't have any associated upgrade costs?\r\n\r\nWell, then, the question arises,
    what constitutes the upgrade? One answer is, at the very least, cross platform
    compatibility and, theoretically, automatic cross-platform ligature support. I
    am assuming that at some point, applications will have uniform opentype support.
    But there is only fragmentary evidence to support that optimistic assumption.\r\n\r\nMay
    I ask, isn't there a term that describes an upgrade that isn't an upgrade and
    isn't a downgrade, but is a 'same-grade'? "
  created: '2006-02-23 21:41:36'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>May I ask, isn\u2019t there a term that describes an upgrade that isn\u2019t
    an upgrade and isn\u2019t a downgrade, but is a \u2018same-grade\u2019?</em>\r\n\r\nsure...
    a <em>conversion</em>."
  created: '2006-02-23 21:56:35'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>After a certain number of years, doesn\u2019t the foundry deserve a little
    more revenue? And isn\u2019t it a little snarky of the user to suppose that after
    ten years of using your software, he doesn\u2019t have any associated upgrade
    costs?</em>\r\n\r\nI suppose that, if you buy into the planned obsolescene model
    that underlies (American) consumer culture, the answer would be <strong>Freaking
    A Tweety!</strong>. Anyone who buys <em>anything</em> and expects it to be useful
    for more than a couple of years must be from another planet...or another generation.
    Show me the money, and show me the money again...and again, suckers!\r\n\r\nHowever,
    I DON'T buy into that particular line of thinking. I have odd things like books,
    drafting instruments and vinyl LPs which I purchased twenty, thirty or even forty
    years ago which are still perfectly functional. I fact, I have a specimen page
    from a church missal that was printed in 1520 and, guess what: you can still read
    it WITHOUT paying a single extra cent to upgrade.\r\n\r\nPersonally, I think a
    company which sets a standard and then abandons it (because it will force it customers
    to buy more of its product) practices bad (American) business (as usual: bite
    the hand that feeds you, again and again). I am certain that Mr Phinney, as official
    Adobe spin doctor to this forum, will have a different perspective on the subject,
    as he is paid to do: I can't wait to hear the rationalization for this bone-headed
    move. If Adobe gave a rat's patoot about ANYTHING other than its bottom line,
    it would make sense for it to offer low-cost or no-costs conversions to its loyal
    customer base. Or, at least they would in a perfect world..."
  created: '2006-02-24 02:53:37'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>I have odd things like books, drafting instruments and vinyl LPs which
    I purchased twenty, thirty or even forty years ago which are still perfectly functional.\r\n\r\nI
    have vinyl LPs as well, but if I purchase a new stereo, I don't necessarily expect
    it to play them. It's a feature that the stereo vendor may or may not build into
    new products. \r\n\r\nIt has been said many times before that fonts are software.
    The software originally produced, tested and sold by the foundries works and will
    continue to work with the software for which it was designed. In the case of Postscript
    Type 1 fonts, this means current and previous operating systems and supported
    applications. I don't see why there is any obligation on the part of foundries
    to provide compatible font software, free of charge to run on a new system simply
    because the OS vendor has decided to remove support for older technology. \r\n\r\nConsumers
    have a choice to purchase and use Microsoft Vista. However, if MS breaks backwards
    compatability I don't see how this is the fault of a font vendor. Keep in mind
    that I don't necessarily believe my own argument completely. It is a great opportunity
    for a font vendor to earn a lot of goodwill from loyal customers if they can ease
    an OS transition. \r\n\r\n\r\n(Also: Where's my OS X native PageMaker? I loved
    those \"windowshades\" on the text frames.)"
  created: '2006-02-24 05:40:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Strange that MS is being so sympathetic to foundries\u2019 existential
    grief all of a sudden.</em>\r\n\r\nI think it is myopic to try to understand the
    development of OpenType and shifts in font format support in terms of the economics
    or politics of the typical North American and European font foundry and its graphic
    design market. While Adobe obviously has some interest in this area, Microsoft
    has little or none.\r\n\r\nMicrsoft invented OpenType because they <em>needed</em>
    to extend their existing TrueType format to support complex script rendering for
    their Middle Eastern and Asian markets. All the fancy typographic features of
    OpenType Layout are riding on the back of the complex script handling. OpenType
    is fundamentally an internationalisation technology. The impetuses for its creation
    are Microsoft's international market, the character/glyph model and associated
    rendering demands of the Unicode Standard, and the massive increase in dynamic
    electronic text serving of the Internet (contrasted with the largely static print
    media of the desktop publishing revolution that gave rise today's digital font
    business.)\r\n\r\nAdobe's reasons for signing on to OpenType are largely similar
    to Microsoft's, although with a different set of priorities. The fancy typographic
    support that Microsoft saw as an added bonus of their complex script support is
    obviously of more immediate interest to Adobe. But the importance of electronic
    text serving to Adobe's current strategy is obvious: PDF has become a viable web-publishing
    format, and this is only possible if the underlying text behind a typographically
    sophisticated document layout remains cleanly encoded, searchable, copyable, pasteable,
    etc. In short, when Microsoft were developing OpenType, Adobe were already well
    aware that the whole 8-bit 'expert set' encoding architecture that had served
    the static media of desktop publishing was inadequate for the Internet. On the
    internationalisation side, Adobe have long been involved in the Far East market,
    especially Japan. More recently, though, they have begun to show their hand in
    other areas: Acrobat 7.05 includes support for Arabic, Hebrew and Thai, taking
    advantage of the complex script support of OpenType.\r\n\r\nRegarding Microsoft's
    decision not to support Type 1 fonts in Avalon (and bear in mind that Avalon will
    co-exist with the old GDI layout engine, which continues to support Type 1 fonts,
    and it is far from clear how many applications will actually make the switch from
    GDI to Avalon), I think the reasons are pretty mundane. Although they are both
    PostScript formats, Type 1 and CFF format fonts require separate rasterisers.
    There appears to have long been resistance from within the Windows core engineering
    group to supporting multiple rasterisers. Dropping one from Avalon, for what is
    clearly an obsolete font technology from the internationalisation perspective
    that is of most concern to Microsoft, is a no brainer. They save resources, simplify
    their layout and rendering, and at the same time encourage greater adoption of
    the sfnt font file format."
  created: '2006-02-24 05:45:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The impetuses for its creation are Microsoft\u2019s international market,
    the character/glyph model and associated rendering demands of the Unicode Standard,
    </em>\r\n\r\nThe OpenType format certainly has enough space for typographic subtlety
    -- was this incidental? I'd be inclined to think not, as typographic complexity
    (the old \"expert\" sets) seems inherent in the character/glyph model."
  created: '2006-02-24 06:58:58'
- author:
    name: mr_cheese
    picture: 111358
  body: "As an aside, I think that the eventual transition from PS type 1 to OpenType
    will also change the way in which some designers work. Having slowly built up
    a rich and varied typoth\xE8que from select foundries, I do look with a little
    trepidation at this investment becoming obsolete. I believe that Lucasfonts, and
    Underware offer \"upgrades\" from PS to OT versions. And (I hope) that other foundries
    will provide this kind of offer too. When I am obliged by software considerations
    to move exclusively to OpenType, I will most probably buy OT versions/upgrades
    for my three most trusted and dearly loved fonts, and use these exclusively in
    the future. I might even offer myself two weights of TEFF Trinity at that point
    !! Replacing my entire type library would be financially impossible unless done,
    font by font, over several years.  \r\n\r\nMight anyone know whether Fontshop
    offer PS to OT \"upgrades\" ?? Has anyone complied a list of foundries which offer
    this possibility ?\r\n\r\npete "
  created: '2006-02-24 09:29:59'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Many foundries that do not offer upgrade-pricing on individual fonts do offer
    such a deal for their whole-library collections.\r\n\r\nFree upgrades on OT conversion
    doesn't make any business sense for a type designer or producer. The process of
    making good OpenType fonts is very labor intensive, much more difficult than generating
    old Type 1 fonts. If OT conversion fonts were just given away to customers, this
    work would go uncompensated.\r\n\r\nAlso, in most cases, OT fonts have larger
    character sets than the fonts they replace. If I had just purchased Times Roman
    from foundry X, with a standard 256 character set, an free upgrade really wouldn't
    be all that fair for foundry x if they decide to include CE characters, small
    caps, and old style figures etc. in the new OT version. I'd be getting all of
    these glyphs for free if I'd never licensed the old expert versions! And most
    foundries do release OT fonts with bigger character sets, because that is what
    customers want. Especially in Europe where heavy degrees of language support is
    a must. Many Americans just don't see this. In the US, we can print products with
    instructions in just one (or maybe two) languages. In Europe, everything is printed
    in a gazillion languages. Even the money has two separate writing systems (Latin
    and Greek).\r\n\r\nAs a separate issue, I do think that it would be interesting
    for a foundry to offer a \"lifetime upgrading possibility\" price to fonts. The
    font would cost more, but you would always get the upgrades sent to you, forever!
    Bulk buyers could look at this like insurance\u2026 sure, some fonts might never
    be upgraded, but others definitely would be. Who knows what formats the future
    holds?"
  created: '2006-02-24 10:54:59'
- author:
    name: mr_cheese
    picture: 111358
  body: "<cite>Free upgrades on OT conversion doesn\u2019t make any business sense
    for a type designer or producer. The process of making good OpenType fonts is
    very labor intensive, much more difficult than generating old Type 1 fonts. If
    OT conversion fonts were just given away to customers, this work would go uncompensated.<cite>\r\n\r\nI
    fully agree Dan. From the side of the individual user however, it is clear that
    some means of incremental upgrade would be really helpful. I will probably have
    to start thinking about this question more deeply before I buy too many more PS1
    licenses !!\r\n\r\npete\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-24 11:39:47'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t see why there is any obligation on the part of foundries
    to provide compatible font software, free of charge to run on a new system simply
    because the OS vendor has decided to remove support for older technology.</em></em>\r\n\r\nBasically,
    I agree with this statement; however, the \"fix\" that I suggested earlier was
    modifying EULAs to allow for format conversion for personal or professional use
    (but <strong>not</strong> for resale).  Allowing conversions involves no providing
    of anything, free of charge or otherwise, except a concession to economic reality.\r\n\r\nCommercial
    printers, large advertising agencies and in-house shops of multibillion-dollar
    corporations can, of course, afford to upgrade and write it off as a business
    expense. As a vendor of typefaces, I wouldn't turn their money down; however,
    a great many loyal buyers of my products are small concerns without the kinds
    of resources the big guys have. Frankly, I would prefer not to cash in on this
    deal by stealing people's lunch money..."
  created: '2006-02-24 15:05:40'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>As a separate issue, I do think that it would be interesting for a
    foundry to offer a \u201Clifetime upgrading possibility\u201D price to fonts.\r\n\r\nIn
    the software industry, some companies offer annual service agreements (ASAs) to
    business customers. Generally that includes automatic upgrades when new products
    are released as well as top tier support. By using a flat fee, the support personnel
    aren't in a sales role. They can basically recommend whatever configuration works
    best for the customer, without having to worry about whether they will pay for
    licensing. \r\n\r\nFor a company transitioning to OTF, some assistance from the
    font vendor would definitly add value. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-24 16:51:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>The OpenType format certainly has enough space for typographic
    subtlety \u2014 was this incidental? I\u2019d be inclined to think not, as typographic
    complexity (the old \u201Cexpert\u201D sets) seems inherent in the character/glyph
    model.</em>\r\n\r\nInsofar as any unencoded glyph variant of a character is an
    inherent presumption of the character/glyph model, yes. My take on this is that
    Microsoft were certainly aware of the typographic potential of OpenType when they
    were designing it, so it wasn't incidental in the sense of a byproduct, but at
    the same time fancy typography wasn't a driving consideration for Microsoft. The
    character/glyph distinction had been around for more than a decade, during which
    time it is notable that MS never once shipped anything like an expert set encoding
    or used PUA codepoints to access typographic glyph variants. Clean text encoding
    had always been more important to Microsoft than it was in the desktop publishing
    world, where any mechanism to get the desired glyphs next to each other was considered
    acceptable. Fine typography essentially requires the Latin script to behave as
    a complex script. This leads me to conclude that fine typography was not a driving
    consideration for Microsoft in the development of OpenType, because if it had
    been we could have expected OpenType, or something like it, much earlier. It is
    only in the context of actual complex scripts, i.e. scripts that <em>require</em>
    higher level protocols in order to display text in a readable way, that the impetus
    to develop the new font format and rendering engines emerges."
  created: '2006-02-24 19:50:34'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "As an aside, a long while back I converted a number of QuickDraw GX fonts
    to PS1. The Mac OS didn't recognize what GX fonts were. At least not without the
    attendant software and at the time there were no apps to run them with... Long
    story short, FOG knew exactly what they were. TrueType. \r\n\r\nOf course, without
    the software they don't sing and dance or extrapolate but. . .\r\n\r\nInterestingly
    enough, I dragged the old unconverted GX fonts over into Tiger tonight and quess
    what, it knows what they are as well. It would be interesting if Apple would supply
    updated software to activate GX once again. Now that was a format that was typographically
    motivated. There was literally no other reason for the rationale.\r\n\r\nI know,
    I know, we must all fall in line, and march to the same music. Embrace the new
    standard, it is in our best interests and for our own good, etc. But what if...\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-02-25 05:15:38'
- author:
    name: Palatine
    picture: 110988
  body: 'Thank you for all the replies! My simple question turned into an impetus
    for quite a discussion. I ended up learning quite a bit. '
  created: '2006-02-25 14:44:20'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Gerry, check this out:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TextEditScreenSnapz002.png]\r\n\r\nThis
    is Bitstream's Bernhard Tango GX, released in 1995, as seen in TextEdit.\r\n\r\n(Nick
    S., if you're reading this, check out the fraction options.)\r\n\r\nI'm not trying
    to start any arguments regarding GX vs. OT. It's not like anyone's going to start
    making GX fonts again. It just rather sad that it's taken so long to get this
    kind of functionality in fonts and it's still not the norm."
  created: '2006-02-25 22:54:12'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: The type aspect of GX is still supported by Apple as AAT (Apple Advanced Typography),
    and Apple make free tools available for defining and adding AAT tables to fonts.
    The big drawbacks to AAT are a) the layout tables are difficult to develop compared
    to OT, and b) support is limited to a very small number of applications on a single
    platform with a small market share. I'm not sure which of these problems is the
    chicken and which is the egg, but the result is that few people are inclined to
    invest much in developing AAT fonts. The most substantial and impressive AAT development
    has been done for Arabic, for which there is currently no other option on the
    Mac OS outside of Middle East versions of Adobe apps.
  created: '2006-02-26 00:01:41'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hi Mark\r\n\r\nThanks for showing that. I've thought the failure of GX was
    not only tragic (for the typographic community) but quite revealing. I remember
    a visit to Adobe way back when and they had a number of them that they were working
    on (just in case). None were ever released (well, you can't really count Tekton\u2013which
    must have the multiple font format record\u2014since Apple paid for it). It simply
    wasn't in Adobe's best interests. So basically, what, about a decade and a half
    of digital typography's retardation?\r\n\r\nBut I know, let's be quiet about that.
    OT will surely, surely, someday...\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-02-26 07:15:58'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>The most substantial and impressive AAT development has been done for
    Arabic, for which there is currently no other option on the Mac OS outside of
    Middle East versions of Adobe apps.\r\n\r\nJohn, Are you saying that Geeza uses
    AAT?"
  created: '2006-02-26 16:42:04'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>support is limited to a very small number of applications on a single
    platform with a small market share.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue. Currently, the only apps
    on my system that support the extra features of GX fonts are TextEdit, Pages,
    Keynote, iWeb, iDVD, NoteTaker, Freeway Pro, OmniGraffle, OmniOutliner, and Stickies.
    Obviously, none of these are cross-platform, and that's no coincidence. You can
    also access the extra characters via the Glyph palette in Adobe CS apps, but nothing
    automatic like there is with OT fonts, and of course you may have trouble if you
    send such files to colleagues using Windows. \r\n\r\nStill, it's nice to know
    that all those cool GX fonts that I got on the Bitstream TypeShop Pro CD aren't
    completely obsolete and useless. And it's nice to know that Mac users (a tiny
    group of people who number only in the tens of millions) can still use them if
    they want to. Ironically, there are more apps supporting GX fonts now than there
    were at the height of Apple's GX fling. I recall not having any apps that supported
    them when I bought the TypeShop Pro CD.\r\n\r\nNot that I'm likely to start making
    GX (or AAT) fonts myself, but since the topic concerns the longevity of a font
    format I thought it was worth mentioning."
  created: '2006-02-26 16:48:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Mac users (a tiny group of people who number only in the tens of millions)...\"\r\n\r\n;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n\r\nPS:
    ...but who buy many more fonts per person than typical majority platform users."
  created: '2006-02-26 17:06:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, Are you saying that Geeza uses AAT?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know, but
    if it is an Apple system font, then almost certainly yes.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I
    should have mentioned in addition to InDesign ME the very good Mellel word processing
    program, which also uses OpenType.\r\n\r\nThe most impressive use of AAT I've
    seen is in the <a href=\"http://www.diwan.com/mishafi/main.htm\">Diwan Mishafi</a>
    font designed by the Iraqi calligrapher Hamid Al-Saadi."
  created: '2006-02-27 02:48:05'
date: '2006-02-22 02:36:22'
node_type: forum
title: TrueType longevity?

---
