---
author:
  name: Charles Leonard
  picture: 111392
body: "I have recently completed a master's thesis dealing with Paul Renner and Futura.
  It is available as a PDF down load from http://etd.gsu.edu/theses/available/etd-07222005-152053/.
  If that is too much to remember use etd. gsu.edu and browse by author (leonard).\r\n\r\nI
  appreciate any serious commentary and input. The abstract follows:\r\n\r\nThis thesis
  reviews the circumstances that led to what Paul Renner called \uFFFDthe inflation
  of historicism,\uFFFD places his response to that problem in the context of the
  Weimar Republic, details how the German attributes with which he began the project
  were displaced from the typeface that emerged in 1927, demonstrates that Futura
  belongs to a new category of serif-less roman fonts rooted in Arts and Crafts lettering,
  and considers why the specifically German aspects of the project have gone unrecognized
  for over seventy years. Renner\uFFFDs writing is compared to ideas prevalent in
  early twentieth-century German cultural discourse, and Futura\uFFFDs design process
  is placed in the context of Renner\uFFFDs personal experience of Weimar\uFFFDs social
  and economic crises. Objective measurements are employed to establish the relationship
  between drawings attributed to Renner and are used to compare features of Futura
  with other fonts of the period.\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: adamll2013-spammer
  body: "This blog gives the light in which I can observe the reality. This is very
    nice one and gives useful information. Thanks for this nice blog.\r\n<a href=http://sageoutdooradventures.com/>snowmobiling
    in Vail Co</a>"
  created: '2013-04-08 11:25:17'
- author:
    name: adamll2013-spammer
  body: "Great article!\_\_I was searching for something entirely different when I
    came across your site.\_\_I thoroughly enjoyed the thought you put into this writing.\r\n<a
    href=http://desmondhomebuilders.com/>kitchen and bath remodel Eagle, Colorado</a>\r\n"
  created: '2013-04-08 11:28:21'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>I appreciate any serious commentary and input. \r\n\r\nUnfortunately
    this isn't serious commentary or input. But I have to ask, did you investigate
    the possibility of setting the thesis itself in Futura? Do you have another version
    set in Futura?\r\n\r\nThis isn't entirely crazy, because it would be nice to be
    able to meditate on the font intermitantly while reading your thesis. A cynical
    take on this might change your title to: \"Paul Renner and Futura: Times New Roman
    Is The Only Acceptable Typeface, So Why Bother Discussing Others?\"\r\n\r\nRecently,
    a Typophile made some T-shirts reviving an old advertisement for Garamond consisting
    of the word \"Helvetica\" set in Garamond. Seeing page after page of information
    on Futura set in Times New Roman makes me feel the same way as seeing that ad.
    \r\nhttp://www.cafepress.com/teapotthecat.44022032 \r\n\r\nAlso: I don't necessarily
    agree with my own arguments. I truely appreciate the work of scholars like yourself
    who provide freely available, verifiable historical documentation. Thanks."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "I wish I could have used Futura. As I worked on the thesis, I produced
      a version of Futura that used the glyphs developed by Renner and the Bauer Foundry
      in the period up to the Summer of 1925, and had hoped to use that for setting
      the thesis. However, Times Roman is the standard for GSU electronic theses.\r\n\r\nTo
      a certain extent the phrase \"The Only Acceptable Typeface,\" in your pastisch
      on the title, expresses one of the critical points made in the concluding chapter
      of the thesis, e.g. fonts like Times Roman disguise their modernist premise
      through appropriation of authority accrued to historic models. Further, such
      appropriation has become such a standard feature of 20th century typefounding
      that its implications frequently go unnoticed. Worse, appropriation of obvious
      historical authority obscures the true nature of fonts that, like Futura, have
      their own clearly discernable historical antecedants but access them in ways
      not in agreement with the \"official party line.\"\r\n\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-02-24 14:28:04'
  created: '2006-02-24 07:06:05'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "I appologize for my snarky comment. This is really an incredible resource;
    if it were a book I would have likely purchased it. \r\n\r\nFutura's \"clearly
    discernable historical antecedants\" have had an effect on me when I've used Futura
    in the past. More than some other fonts, I feel like I've gotten away with something
    when I've used it in a document. Sometimes when I see it used by large companies
    like HP, I wonder if they take it's history into consideration. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: I didn't think it "snarky" at all, and I appreciate your attention to the
      work.
    created: '2006-02-25 15:40:23'
  created: '2006-02-24 17:17:40'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Charles, I downloaded your thesis, printed it out, and have read about half
    of it.\r\n\r\nI like it very much. It could use a little editing, but so can just
    about everything, even works already in print ;-)\r\n\r\nDo you have any publishing
    plans for it?\r\n\r\nI see from your text that you can read German. Can you write
    German as well? Perhaps more publishing opportunities would be available if you
    published the text in German, especially because of your writing's direction.
    Also, there is no book on the German market that really covers Renner well, except
    for his own books of course\u2026 <em>Die Kunst der Typographie</em> was just
    reissued about two years ago. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "RE: publishing plans. Yes, I am seeking a printed outlet, perhaps as an
      adjunct to an English edition of <em>Der K\xFCnstler in der mechanisierten Welt.</em>
      I am also pursuing submission of segments of the thesis in several typographic
      and design history/aesthetics journals.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately, I am just a reader
      of German. \r\n"
    created: '2006-02-25 15:57:43'
  created: '2006-02-25 12:22:12'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Regarding the typeface the text is set in, I don't think that that is an
    issue. Pieces of writing should be judges as texts in and of themselves. Masters'
    theses are just works of writing, not designed objects. Were the text to be published
    in a journal, or a book, then one could go in several different design directions.
    I personally think that it would be sort of ironic to set the whole thing in Renner
    Antiqua ;-)\r\n\r\nFutura is a legible face, at least the metal version popular
    in the 30s was. The reissue of <em>Die Kunst der Typographie</em> is just a reproduction
    of all the old pages. The small Futura holds up well even to this sort of abuse."
  created: '2006-02-25 12:27:53'
- author:
    name: speter
    picture: 110038
  body: FWIW, Christopher Burke's work on Renner wasn't set in Futura or any of Renner's
    typefaces, either. It was set it the author's Celeste.
  created: '2006-02-25 15:49:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Charles,\r\nI fully understand the standards for presentation universities
    use for a graduate thesis--even if the typography they require is less than stellar.
    I would hope that you would approach a publisher who could help tidy up the editing
    and allow you to design the pages in keeping with the material you are presenting\r\nI
    have a ways to go before I finish reading it but I have read enough to appreciate
    your work and your love of the subject. I have always felt that Futura was a landmark
    face that took on the modern world squarely as an idea. I look forward to finishing
    the reading.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-25 15:57:25'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "As far as I could read, this is very interesting. I'd buy it if it was published.\r\n\r\nI
    think it's not that bad that this is a thesis and not a \"design piece\" (yet).\r\nI've
    done a similar work on Syntax by Hans Eduard Meier and Rialto DF by Lui Karner
    and Giovanni de Faccio. You could translate it into \"The Effects of Culture,
    Technology, and Social Continuity On the Design of Type for Printing, shown by
    the examples Syntax and Rialto DF\".\r\nUnfortunately, I only had 4 months to
    do that, and it had to be written and designed. Today, I think the content has
    suffered a bit from that fact, I'd like to revise some parts of it somewhen.\r\n\r\nDesigning
    it afterwards gives you the time to do both well, and I'd be happy to see it published
    somewhen (in german or in englisch, i don't carej."
  created: '2006-02-26 12:37:19'
- author:
    name: Christoph Coen
    picture: 111398
  body: "Thanks for this interesting read, Charles. I spent more than a week ruminating
    over your thesis, and it has actually motivated me to register for Typophile after
    a year of merely listening in to discussions, so this is in fact my very first
    post and I apologize for posting so late. \r\n\r\nYou deal with a fascinating
    subject in an almost exhaustive manner - the wealth of material that has gone
    into your dissertation is amazing. I particularly like your approach of situating
    the design process of Futura in its wider social, political and economic context;
    I think this is very effective in this case.\r\n\r\nThere are just a few points
    where your thesis puzzles me, probably because I am too mired in an insular German
    perspective. You stress the \"specifically German aspects\" of Futura and the
    peculiarities of \"German typographic practice in the first half of the twentieth
    century\". I am not always sure what exactly you mean by this, or how it relates
    to the design of Futura. You sometimes sounds as if, typographically speaking,
    Germany and the rest of the world, or Britain and the United States at least,
    were on different planets in those years. I think that is to some extent contradicted
    by your own account how people like Johnston or Gill were hired by German publishers
    to do work in Germany. Of course, there was the prevalence of blackletter, which
    was clearly a significant as well as highly visible difference. But this was never
    as all-dominating as you tend to make out - I think there was more of a typographical
    bilingualism than you give credit for, and the acceptance of roman type developed
    much earlier than \"in the five years between Typographie als Kunst and the issuance
    of Futura\".\r\n\r\nWhere your thesis fails to hold water in my view, Charles,
    is in your claim that the \"German aspects\" of Futura, i.e. the connection to
    blackletter, were somehow toned down during the design process. While your account
    of that design process is admirable (my only quibble would be that the lecture
    on 3 July 1925 was obviously not in Munich but in Frankfurt), I do not think the
    characters a and g in Renner's original design would have struck any German at
    the time as particularly \"German\", any more than it would today, and in fact
    their replacements in the version of Futura as used today are actually closer
    to their Fraktur equivalents. The \"ball and post\" r is ambiguous: where you
    see Gothic, I see Bodoni. In any case, Renner's stated aim with r, as well as
    with m and n, was to make these characters more static, to eliminate any horizontal
    movement which Renner considered an obsolete remnant of writing by pen. While
    this worked to some extent with the t (although that character in Futura is still
    a bit of a show-stopper inside words), it did not work out with those other characters,
    so Renner grudgingly had to make them more conventional. The only thing that bugs
    me in this context is the h. It is clear from your account that, while Renner
    was experimenting with an angular m and n, the h had a rounded edge from the beginning.
    Maybe Renner thought that the long stem on the left made the h sufficiently static
    anyway. Or one might argue that Renner was thinking in blackletter, where the
    designs of h and n are not necessarily based on each other, which would of course
    be another argument in favour of your theory. Where I think you are right and
    where Renner may to some extent have sold out to international marketability was
    in the inclusion of an oblique, as an afterthought as it were. On the other hand,
    I don't think the fact that there was originally no plan for an italic necessarily
    had to do with German peculiarities - if you try to design from elementary principles
    of typography, as Renner did, you would not necessarily want to emulate the relationship
    between roman and italic, which is just an historical accident.\r\n\r\nThe spelling
    of your German quotations and book titles would, I'm afraid, require quite a bit
    of retouching, but the most grievous point is the fact that the name \"Mergenthaler\"
    is consistently misspelt \"Merganthaler\", even in a quotation where I suspect
    it might have been correct in the original. Of course, this stuff is trivial in
    itself but it tends to distract the reader. I confess that the occasional use
    of the word \"Teutonic\" as a synonym for \"German\" also grates a little on my
    nerves. I also stumbled over the term \"Bruchschriften\" for blackletter which
    sounds a little derogatory to me, similar to \"Bruchbude\" or \"Bruchpilot\".
    You've probably got it somewhere from the contemporary literature, I expect, but
    the more usual German term these days would be \"gebrochene Schriften\". \"Wortbild\"
    is not a play on \"Wortbildung\" but just the standard German term for word shape.
    Where I think you are seriously inaccurate is in some of your claims on Nazi Germany.
    It is an oversimplification to claim that \"Futura was effectively banned from
    wide use in Germany\" after 1933, or even that \"on their accession to power in
    1933, the Nazi party effectively banned roman type from German printing\". It
    seems that Futura continued to be quite popular under the Nazis, particularly
    for technical applications. Only the other day, I saw one of those famous Enigma
    machines in a museum here in Berlin which had a printed sheet of instructions
    for use affixed to the inside of its wooden lid - no prizes for guessing what
    typeface those instructions were set in. I think other examples would be easy
    to find. The fact that Futura, presumably to Renner's chagrin, wasn't used much
    for books may have had other reasons than a boycott by the Nazis. Similarly, to
    talk of \"the post World War II silence that surrounded anyone who remained in
    Nazi Germany by choice\" is inaccurate. The people who had a hard time after the
    war generally were the emigrants who returned, not the vast majority who had stayed.
    Renner's book on colour, published after the war, was apparently quite popular
    and an English translation was published in the US - maybe his interests had to
    some extent shifted from typography to painting. I do not think that in Renner's
    case there was any serious suggestion that he was tainted by collaboration with
    the Nazis - quite the opposite. And to suggest that he somehow had problems after
    the war because he was a \"handsome, blue-eyed 'Aryan' male\" is simply inappropriate
    - I do not see how this description of Renner's physical features advances your
    argument.\r\n\r\nBut anyway, these are just minor quibbles with what is otherwise
    excellent work - so once again, well done, Charles, and I'm just looking forward
    to seeing your work in German!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "Christopher\r\nThank you for a thorough and just critique.\r\nMy overstatement
      of the separation of German and Latin typographic practice derives from my own
      discovery that I had presumed that German typographic practice was dependant
      on English practice. I remain very much struck by the assignment of particular
      forms\u2013roman, fraktur, schwabacher\u2013to particular roles in German book
      publishing, as well as by the lack of cross-mixture of roman and italic in German
      books of the era. The only occurrence of the oblique version of Futura in any
      of Renner's books on typography occurs in the setting of his name on the title
      page of <em>Die Kunst der Typographie.</em> The most stunning example is the
      difference in appearance between <em>Typografie als Kunst</em> and <em>Mechanisierte
      Grafik</em>. I am working on a revision that does a better job of demonstrating
      how Renner's selection of Unger fraktur as the font for the 1922 book provides
      an insight on Renner's perception that Unger's integration of German form and
      French neo-classic style provided an example for the emergence of a new kind
      of script for German book publishing, one that was just over 100 years old at
      the time of <em>Typografie als Kunst.</em>\r\nI used the word \"bruchschrift\"
      on the advice of a German epigraphic scholar, but thank you for suggesting more
      contemporary alternatives. \r\nThe reference to the \"post WW II silence\" was
      made in terms of Renner's isolation from the history of design as written and
      taught in England and the United States after world War II.\r\nThe point about
      Renner's appearance was more to explain why he had less trouble than he did
      after his contretemps with the Nazis in 1933. That comment was all that was
      left after an edit that removed accompanying information about his Northern-German
      protestant background, but I certainly apologize for any offence. \r\nAgain,
      thank you for the feedback and I will certainly recheck the German spellings.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-03-10 04:20:50'
  created: '2006-03-06 22:29:22'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "Charles,\r\nI have just found the link to your thesis by chance. Although
    it's not so easy for me to read such studies in English (I am Italian), I wished
    to thank you.\r\nI have bought just now the book by Christopher Burke, and so
    I have the opportunity of reading both.\r\nI think they may be quite complementary
    to the texts assembled by Paul Shaw and Peter Bain while doing their landmark
    exhibition (and catalog): Blackletter: Type and National Identity.\r\n\r\nChristoph
    is right by saying we shouldn't see people working in different places in the
    same period being so \"isolated\", but I have to say also that what happened in
    Italy in these years was really different. This is shown practically if we consider
    Futura's Italian \"counterpart\", [[http://www.flickr.com/photos/fountaineer/278176988/|Semplicit\xE0]]
    which was designed around 1928-30 by Alessandro Butti. [[http://olgallopis.es/wordpress/marta-sanchez-recuperacion-tipografica-de-la-grotesca-radio/2008/06/25/#comments|Radio
    Grotesca]] digitized by Marta S\xE1nchez, is another example.\r\nSentiments accompanying
    Modernity were filtered very much through each counrty's sensibilities\u2026\r\n\r\n<cite>
    That comment was all that was left after an edit that removed accompanying information
    about his Northern-German protestant background, but I certainly apologize for
    any offence. </cite>\r\nI would be interested to read additional things about
    Renner and how he related protestantism and his German culture, as the references
    in Burke's book are very insightful. Would it be possible to read the parts you
    left out?\r\n\r\nMany thanks again! :=)\r\n"
  created: '2008-12-31 14:26:54'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>I have to say also that what happened in Italy in these years was really
    different.</em>\r\nFirst thanks for your comments.\r\nHistorical contingency always
    matters. One of modernity's agenda items was to end history and it became a historical
    oddity itself.\r\nRenner said that a particular era cannot identify its own style
    and what is modern is how current taste differs from another period. I think that
    is easily enough understood when talking about, say, national or gender boundaries,
    but hard to grasp when the separation is temporal.\r\nUmberto Eco in the English
    entitled <em>The Mysterious Flame of Queen Lolanna </em>makes it clear that what
    not only happened \"in Italy in these years\" is different, but what happens in
    anyone's life has different significance for the one who lives it.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-08 15:58:01'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Well, I think, Futura is a very german font. It was not Futura, what was
    banned by Nazi party, it was Paul Renner. Adolf Hitler prefered Antiqua to be
    used by official documents since 1941, when the usage of Fraktur was forbidden.
    Before, Bernard Fraktur from Lucian Bernhard alias Emil Kahn, a jewish artist,
    was used for the Nazi newspaper V\xF6lkischer Beobachter - what a joke. \r\n\r\nI
    sometimes think that Futura is seen in a different way in Germany and in the anglo-american
    scene. I use it for my website www.bleisetzer.de because for me it is a typical
    \"prussian\" font. \r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-07-10 15:12:35'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: Tracking
  created: '2009-07-10 17:31:03'
- author:
    name: blank
  body: "<cite>Well, I think, Futura is a very german font.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo you feel
    the same way about Gill Sans and Johnston\u2019s Underground?"
  created: '2009-07-10 17:45:55'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "@ James Puckett\r\n\r\nMh... good question. I am not familiar enough with
    fonts from out of Germany... but I can say: When I got Gill (in lead) the first
    time in 1975 or so, we all in our company realized: its not a german font. But
    this had nothing to do if we liked Gill or not.\r\n\r\n\"Typical german fonts\"
    in my opinion are of course:\r\nAll fonts out of Group X - Gebrochene Schriften:\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/schriftensammlung.html\r\n\r\nIn
    Group VI, Sans Serif, I do not feel the same \"german character\" with Akdidenz-Grotesk,
    Berthold Grotesk or others.\r\n\r\nSorry, I never studied like most(?) of you
    guys, I am only an old german typesetter, who does his job since around 35 years
    in the Graphic Industry. \r\n\r\nFutura (and here mostly Futura Buch) with its
    strong and very clear character, constructed and from Paul Renner (I cannot separate
    these two informations in my head) who - for me - was one of the absolute positive
    german type designers (a brave and open man like I wished all germans in the 20ies
    shoulf have been). \"Prussian character\" for me is: black or white (the flagg),
    truth or lie, yes or no, straight forward in honest way of doing, a positive konservativ
    way of life. This - for me - is german. This - for me - is Futura. And this was
    the reason why I choosed this font for my website and all my company documents.\r\n\r\nAnd
    of course its very interesting for me to read what you guys think about Furura.
    :)\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-07-11 06:40:53'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>I sometimes think that Futura is seen in a different way in Germany and
    in the anglo-american scene.</em>\r\nSince this was the premise with which I began
    my research on Renner, it is wonderful to receive such a comment. And particularly
    from \"an old German typesetter.\" You have made my day."
  created: '2009-07-15 17:02:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>When I got Gill (in lead) the first time in 1975 or so, we all in our
    company realized: its not a german font.</em>\r\n\r\nHence Monotype Series 262,
    in which the A, M, N, a, g, and t of Gill, and the figures, were given more \"geometric\"
    forms.\r\nI don't think the distaste for Gill is specifically German, as Gill
    never caught on in many parts of the world which fell in love with Futura from
    the get-go, such as the USA. I have even come across geometric modifications of
    Gill used in the UK.\r\n\r\nThere's nothing inherently German about Futura. When
    it was released, no doubt the traditionalists thought its <em>Antiqua</em> alphabet
    was horribly un-German.\r\n\r\nI would say it's the other way round. Germany became
    Futura-ish, as German identity came to be associated, in the metaculture of art
    and design around the world, with the Weimar-era modernism typified by Futura.\r\n\r\nIMO,
    this is an issue of modernity, rather than Germanity. The humanist characters
    in Gill may are an expression of the fact that the UK, between the wars, didn't
    \"get\" modernism to the same extent that continental Europe and the US (at least
    in commercial culture) did--and there was probably some part played by the commercial
    stranglehold of Monotype in the UK, in keeping out the geometric modern typefaces."
  created: '2009-07-15 18:49:04'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "><em>There\u2019s nothing inherently German about Futura</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    I don't think that is true. The c <strong>is</strong> German. In German words,
    c is (just about\u2026) always followed by h or by k. The c is narrow if Futura
    because it isn't going to be standing alone. If Futura had been designed in France
    or the UK, the c would probably have had a different form.\r\n\r\nYou might also
    argue about the single-storey g, which is common in many German typefaces (Blackletters,
    sans serifs\u2026). But I think that the c is enough. That is at least <em>one
    thing</em> that represents a design/production/sales decision that is\u2014at
    its heart\u2014inherently German."
  created: '2009-07-15 20:07:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Dan, Gill Sans also has a narrow c.\r\n(\"Unfurled\" according to Stanley
    Hess' terminology in <em>The Modification of Letterforms</em>.)"
  created: '2009-07-15 20:20:22'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I see from Burke's book that Renner himself called Futura \"an eminently
    German typeface\" (in a 1940 letter to the Bauer typefoundry)! Burke implies that
    the context of that statement was that it was suited to particularities of German
    orthography (C/c's vertical terminals, shorter cap height), not that it contained
    the German <em>Geist</em>...\r\n\r\nOther food for thought: \r\n- Futura's name
    is distinctly un-German (Latinish; the German word for \"future\" is <em>Zukunft</em>).\r\n-
    When D&P obtained the rights to sell the design in France, they rechristened it
    \"Europe\"\r\n\r\n<em>I would say it\u2019s the other way round</em>\r\n\r\nWell
    put."
  created: '2009-07-15 20:26:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Perhaps there was a little too much of the <em>Geist</em> of ancient Rome
    in Futura for Jan Tschichold, i.e. the proportions of the capitals--and that was
    too close to the Nazi taste. (Although he did say that his disenchantment with
    the modernist agenda was due to its totalitarian overtones.)
  created: '2009-07-15 21:22:15'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "For me too, and many other Czechs. Which Thousand Year Empire would you rather
    live in?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/spqr_5711.png]"
  created: '2009-07-16 02:09:28'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "I'm glad to see this discussion picking up.\r\n<em>Futura\u2019s name is
    distinctly un-German.</em>\r\nIt could well be that the name expresses a pan-European
    point of view, which then begs the question of why did D&P use Europe as the name
    in France.\r\nInterestingly, the name was suggested to Renner by Fritz Wichert
    -- a pronounced modernist, who was the director of the Frankfurter Kunstschule.
    And the suggestion seems to been a development parallel to giving the name Futura
    to the cyborg in Fritz Lang's \"Metropolis\" -- to my eyes a German film, but
    in the modernist, Weimar, sense Mr. Shinn expresses. My reading has indicated
    to me that German writers frequently make use of \"latinische\" expressions when
    they want to make a philosophical or scientific point.\r\n<em>Perhaps there was
    a little too much of the </em>Geist <em> of ancient Rome in Futura for Jan Tschichold
    \u2026</em>\r\nThe NSDAP program of monumental authoritarian \"Roman\" building
    and ceremony didn't begin until well after Tschichold was forced into exile. When
    Tschichold worked with Renner in the late 20s -- and damned Futura with faint
    praise -- NSDAP tendency was for Heimat aesthetics."
  created: '2009-07-16 22:55:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I was thinking of Tschichold's comment in 1946:\r\n\r\n\u201C[The Third Reich]
    could not bear the genuine modernists who, although political opponents, were
    nevertheless unwittingly not so far from the delusion of \u2018order\u2019 that
    ruled the Third Reich. The role of leader that fell to me\u2026signified\u2026an
    intellectual guardianship of \u2018followers\u2019 typical of dictatorial states.\u201D
    \r\n\r\nThat partly explains why he no longer wanted to be the poster boy of the
    New Typography.\r\nNotwithstanding Heimat, the capitals of Futura and Kabel take
    their shape from \"Trajan\", which is the style of ancient, dictatorial Rome.
    Hence the taint.  Just a theory.\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-16 23:29:16'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "Well, I should have been more precise. It is the <em>totalitarian</em> aspect
    of modernism which I meant. Out with the old, and in with the new, as of noon
    today, so to speak. This intertwined with an uncanny revolutionary zeal and willingness
    to purge.\r\n\r\nOn their own, I'd say that in my example, Gill is the one more
    reminiscent of monumental roman capitals, not Futura, which to my eye comes across
    as strict, stern and clumsy.\r\n\r\nOn the cultural level, it might be relevant
    that the Roman state was a republic in its heyday, just like Weimar, and that
    there was a degree of autonomy and religious freedom within it, and that the Renaissance
    movement and humanism owe much to Roman inspiration. And, to me personally, the
    tension between blackletter and roman typefaces still echoes that clash. Then
    there is the sad fact that the fascist movement derived its iconography from the
    Roman Empire directly.\r\n\r\nThat aside, to my mind, Gill says humanism and respect,
    and Futura says revolution and upheaval. Caveats: please do not bring the personal
    habits of Mr Gill into this, and as for slavery, humanism eventually removed it
    from the Roman tradition before the nazis brought it back."
  created: '2009-07-17 01:45:11'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>I was thinking of Tschichold\u2019s comment in 1946.</em>\r\nWell cited.
    What interests me about Futura, and Gill Sans for that matter, isn't how they
    were thought of in the aftermath of World War II, but rather what thoughts brought
    them into existence. The ideas that pre-figure their creation.\r\nI feel that,
    despite the effects of historicism, designs are bound by historical contingency
    to their place and moment of creation. In that sense, Renner was a German book
    designer working in the reality of the Weimar Republic, where a large part of
    the work done was to make Germany more solidly a part of modern western European
    culture.\r\nI believe that any internationalist effects of Futura were part of
    his program to once again make German typography meaningful on the international
    stage. And in that sense it is a German typeface that applied then current technology
    to an underlying structure derived from Arts & Crafts lettering."
  created: '2009-07-17 12:37:50'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>\u2026 there is the sad fact that the fascist movement derived its iconography
    from the Roman Empire directly.</em>\r\nIt wasn't just the fascists. Don't forget
    that many of the pseudo-classical departmental buildings in Washington, D.C. were
    built during the 1930's. Often imperial style is appropriated to validate imperial
    ambitions.\r\nRepublican Rome was indeed the model cited by the independent Italian
    republics -- especially Florence and Venice -- during the 15th century. Of course
    they appropriated an imperial letter, the Republican capital is often a bit more
    stark than Trajanic capitals. It is beautiful after all. But they too appropriated
    the trappings of the Roman republic to serve to authenticate their authority and
    express their sense of their own importance. There is certainly that sense of
    boastful assertion of destiny in both Futura's name and style."
  created: '2009-07-17 12:55:12'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: "<em>There is certainly that sense of boastful assertion of destiny in both
    Futura\u2019s name and style.</em>\r\n\r\nI wholeheartedly agree."
  created: '2009-07-17 14:49:41'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Well... difficult...\r\nI am not sure to be able to explain in my special
    pidgin english, what I exactly mean. But I try...\r\n\r\n\"Perhaps there was a
    little too much of the Geist of ancient Rome in Futura for Jan Tschichold, i.e.
    the proportions of the capitals\u2014and that was too close to the Nazi taste.
    (Although he did say that his disenchantment with the modernist agenda was due
    to its totalitarian overtones.)\"\r\n\r\nWhat you have to understand, is: Fonts
    from the years around 1930 up to 1935 were symbols of the spirit of Germany. But
    there were not only one national feeling group, there were more of it. The first
    group saw themselves represented in fonts like:\r\n\r\nTannenberg\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/cms/front_content.php?idcat=57&idart=539\r\n\r\nGotenburg\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/cms/front_content.php?idcat=57&idart=453\r\n\r\nElement\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/cms/front_content.php?idcat=57&idart=521\r\n\r\nNational\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/cms/front_content.php?idcat=57&idart=543\r\nPlease
    see picture #3. In the printed catalogue of National what I bought was a little
    label from a guy of Ludwig & Mayer, the foundry: \"Best regards to the local chief
    of NSDAP Franz Siegelmeier. It shows that L&M saw this font as a recommendable
    font for Nazi publications.\r\n\r\nFutura was _not_ showing the character of above
    listet fonts.\r\nIt was a typical font of a patriotic german, but one of the brave
    german guys. Life is _not_ black or white, there are 256 grey scales. Not all
    who were in opposition to the Nazi were socialists. There were although national
    konservative or national revolutionary people in opposition. The most konservative
    people were national thinking, but they thought the Nazis being uneducted underdogs
    - see Ernst Rowohlt and authors of his company (Verlag). \r\n\r\nFutura was a
    pre-answer to these martial fonts coming up after 1933. Futura is like Paul Renner
    was: a humanist and a konservativ thinking german. Its a prussian font. And after
    1871 when Deutsches Reich was foundet, Prussia had the responsibility for whole
    Germany.\r\n\r\nBy the way: He was not the only one. Think about Rudolf Koch.
    Or Rudo Speeman, who e.g. designed Gavotte:\r\nhttp://www.bleisetzer.de/cms/front_content.php?idcat=57&idart=669\r\nBut
    he went to war 1939 as a volunteer, because he was a brave german.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-07-17 18:36:13'
- author:
    name: Bert Vanderveen
    picture: 109809
  body: "My posited explanation for the non-German identity of Futura is that it has
    been the \u2018inspiration\u2019 for a lot of local sanses (Century Gothic, Nobel,
    etc.), whereas Gill has been pretty much left alone in this regard.\r\n\r\n .
    . .\r\nBert Vanderveen BNO"
  created: '2009-07-17 20:38:43'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "\"I feel that, despite the effects of historicism, designs are bound by historical
    contingency to their place and moment of creation.\"\r\n\r\nI totally agree. I
    always think about a font embedded in its historical epoche. I try to understand
    this epoche and try to answer myself the question, if this font is a \"good or
    bad one\", trying to see it with the eyes of someone living in this epoche. How
    else could it be? Its nuts to critizise e.g. Futura from a view of 2009. Its better
    to come closer to Futura from 1925 or so. What was new seing it from 1925? What
    was the mainstream feeling of fonts in this time? So my thoughts come automatically
    to your next announcement:\r\n\r\n\"In that sense, Renner was a German book designer
    working in the reality of the Weimar Republic, where a large part of the work
    done was to make Germany more solidly a part of modern western European culture.\"\r\n\r\nNot
    in Germany. No one forgot the fatal contract of Versailles and was willing to
    excuse it to France, UK & US. This is why Hitler's decisions to militarize Rhine
    Area again, to reintegrate Austria, to stop the payments of the Versaille's contract
    got an acclamation of the german population. Germany did not want to be integrated
    wherever. All european nations were stand-alone national thinking ones. Germany
    wanted to take its place in Europe and the world of the \"big nations\". The epoche
    was minted by imperialistic thinking in all european nations, Gemany, too.\r\n\r\nAnd
    so were the before listed \"german fonts\". Giving Futura a special place within
    the german font answer to itsself, like I wrote before.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-07-18 07:15:39'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>Perhaps there was a little too much of the Geist of ancient Rome in Futura
    for Jan Tschichold, i.e. the proportions of the capitals\u2014and that was too
    close to the Nazi taste.</em>\r\nI am writing this at 2 AM and I am not a night
    owl, but your thoughtful post deserves a prompt reply.\r\nThere was also, perhaps,
    a bit too much of the individual identity in Futura. What the purist modernists,
    as Tschichold was prior to 1933- 36, called for was neutrality of voice, transparency
    of identity, sublimation of individual aspiration to the continuity of the community.
    It is very helpful to remember that Jan Tschichold was not really very supportive
    of Futura before the NSDAP electoral victory in 1933. In other words, he didn't
    like Futura very much before the excesses of absolutist dictates became apparent.
    I suspect that he didn't like Futura in 1932 because it called too much attention
    to its style when what he wanted then were visually neutral typefaces, and in
    1948 because it was to dismissive of historical features that he had subsequently
    come to appreciate. We can, after all, change our minds and still be correct."
  created: '2009-07-19 06:48:01'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>whereas Gill has been pretty much left alone in this regard</em>\r\nSo,
    that leaves the question: What is Gill?\r\nMy contention is that the two are basically
    cut from the same cloth--Arts & Crafts lettering. However, the shears used have
    a slightly different bias. Renner's scissors cut a face that sought to remove
    every vestige of obsolete technology, e.g. pen trace. Morison through Gill, on
    the other hand, sought to maintain the visible authority of antiquity.\r\nThis
    reveals a dilemma at the heart of our understanding of the value of scriptal history.
    Do we better honor the intent of expression by preserving visual artifacts of
    no longer relevant technologies, or do we modulate such artifacts in order to
    best express the  essence of character within current aesthetic and cultural parameters?
    I don't know the answer, but, personally, I think that this was the question that
    Renner faced. Further I believe he opted for the more stringent standard, not
    for aesthetic effect but because of a drive to be theoretically consistent. Hey,
    maybe this is the absolutism the chilled Jan Tschichold."
  created: '2009-07-19 07:09:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What was new seing it from 1925?</em>\r\n\r\nPaul Renner was an artist,
    book designer, and educator who also wrote, spoke, and organized/agitated.\r\n\r\nLike
    many people everywhere at the time, including the same-age Erbar and the much
    younger Tschichold, he started out an historicist and got modernism in the mid
    1920s. (Historicism had been the progressive graphic movement since the turn of
    the century, with the influence of Morris and the private press movement.) But
    he wasn't the only 1920s designer to have a go at designing a sans; Goudy even
    preceded him. Renner described Futura as a \"typeface of our time\", not \"of
    our country\" or \"of our world\"; being up to date was important to him:\r\n\r\n<em>\"For
    the Modern is an idea, an unending task, never to be entirely resolved. We seek
    it on a narrow ridge, which drops away on one side into thoughtlessly adopted
    convention and on the other side into the modish, which is mostly a somewhat foppish
    exaggeration of the Modern at any one time. This ridge is no comfortable middle
    way. </em> \r\n--1947, quoted from Christopher Burke's <em>Paul Renner</em>\r\n\r\nHistoricism
    was the modern thing to do in the first two decades of the 20th century, and the
    Arts and Crafts movement, which Renner participated in professionally as a book
    designer, did provide some of the formal and theoretical underpinnings of Modernism.
    \r\n\r\nSo there is nothing particularly Germanic about Renner's modernist \"renewal\"
    (as Burke calls it), except that Weimar was a hotbed of turmoil and polarization,
    with artists from many countries converging on the scene there, so it did provide
    a cauldron of creativity that produced extreme results, and Modernism was nothing
    if not extreme. So when he decided to construct a modern, geometric, reductive
    typeface, Renner took it all the way, and rationalized its appropriateness for
    the German language, arguing that the Carolignian script, basis of the humanist
    alphabet, was in fact Germanic, because Charlemagne was Karl the Great, and fraktur
    was a later French bastardization of the script.\r\n\r\nSo the geometric minimalism
    of Futura, in comparison to other sans faces of the era, was due to:\r\n\r\n-
    The culture of extremism in Weimar. The geographical location of Weimar, between
    Constructivism in the Soviet Union, and De Stijl in the Netherlands, provided
    an apt center for the development of modernist graphic design, with Gropius' post-1923
    concept of the Bauhaus providing a symbolic and social focus. However, in the
    same German environment, the Erbar sans and Kabel were not solely dependent for
    their modernity on looking as machine-made and simple as possible, but addressed
    and defined other qualities.\r\n\r\n- Renner's background as an artist and intellectual,
    and being a member of that social set, provided an awareness of reductive modernism
    in art and theories such as Purism, and a sympathy for it.\r\n\r\n- Renner's considerable
    professional status: in his late 40s when he designed Futura, he was a man with
    a solid track record in graphic design and education, and no doubt significant
    <em>gravitas</em> in person--these qualities meant that the folk at Bauer took
    his weird geometric experiment seriously, and were prepared to spend many years
    working on it, and with him, to make it commercially viable. In comparison, neither
    Bayer's universal alphabet, nor Tschichold's unicase made it into type. Gill Sans
    benefited from a similar provenance and sponsorship. Kabel too, must have been
    a no-brainer for Klingspor, given that it was the \"skeletal\" derivative of the
    already successful Koch Antiqua.\r\n\r\nUltimately, all type faces are type styles,
    and what comes first is something purely visual and crafted, rationalized <em>post
    fact</em>, not before. Really, in terms of genesis, the \"modernistic\" Benton
    and Hess face Broadway is not that much different from Futura: proceeding from
    reductive majuscule signage lettering, a matching lowercase adheres to the same
    strict formality.\r\n\r\nOf course, historical contingency does play a part in
    shaping types, because every designer lives somewhere, sometime. But it is not
    a direct influence in a way that gives type forms inherent moral or political
    qualities--which is the association that people often look for, especially with
    Nazi-era DIN and Futura. The letters are just shapes, after all. Contingency means
    how a designer carves out a living, with the successful work being economically
    practical, and commensurate with the physicality of how he draws and designs for
    media.\r\n\r\nFor some reason, Renner was able to excise the trace of the hand
    from Futura in a way that other 1920s sans serif type designers were not, or didn't
    want to. At the time, his cultural environment fostered that--but it was the same
    German environment that nourished the more mannered though no less modern sans
    serifs of Jakob Erbar and Rudolf Koch.  \r\n\r\nThe modernity of 20th century
    sans serif faces is not quite so epochal as the modernity of contemporary art.
    The sans serif had been invented 100 years earlier, and in continuous usage. It
    was standard practice for successful type designers to work in many genres, including
    sans. For this reason, one should be wary of borrowing historical contingencies
    from other fields of art and design and applying them to type. Should not Morris
    Benton, the author of News Gothic in 1908, inventor of the sans/serif megafamily
    Clearface, the ultralight Lightline Gothic, the geometric Bank Gothic, the reductive
    Broadway, the socially-committed Century Schoolbook, &c., &c., be considered a
    modernist?\r\n\r\n<em>My contention is that the two are basically cut from the
    same cloth\u2014Arts & Crafts lettering.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think so. The idealized
    geometric shapes of Futura are a completley new and opposite concept to the hand-made
    quality of Arts & Crafts and Gill Sans.  In type, such plain geometry demonstrated
    the smooth machine finish, becoming at that time symbolic of functionalism. This
    was the change that Gropius instituted at the Bauhaus in 1923, and what distinguishes
    the bent steel tube chairs of Breuer from the bent wood chairs of Thonet.\r\n\r\n<em>...he
    opted for the more stringent standard, not for aesthetic effect but because of
    a drive to be theoretically consistent.</em>\r\n\r\nDesign isn't either/or, it's
    both/and. The goal is to make something work well and look good, which involves
    resolving conflicting criteria. It's hard to marry theory and style, to satisfy
    both masters, to walk the narrow ridge, but Renner and Bauer pulled it off with
    Futura, creating a design that fused and transcended style and theory.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-19 18:10:30'
- author:
    name: Indra Kupferschmid
  body: (thanks Nick, have not read something so well explained in a long time)
  created: '2009-07-20 10:25:23'
- author:
    name: paragraph
  body: Yep.
  created: '2009-07-20 13:47:00'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "Nick thank you for your thorough critique. It is very helpful.\r\n<em>The
    idealized geometric shapes of Futura are a completely new and opposite concept
    to the hand-made quality of Arts & Crafts and Gill Sans.</em>\r\nI think that
    Renner was less a modernist than someone who came up in the arts and crafts movement
    and was trying to reconcile his life experience and book designing expertise with
    modernism as it was consolidated from all the other \"isms\" of the early Weimar
    republic. He held this view into the thirties. In 1931 he wrote: \"It [the book
    trade] owes its recovery much more to the revival of the old craft than to constructivists
    and Dadists.\"  \r\n\r\nThere are two aspects to Futura's geometry. The first
    is embodied in the form and the second is a result of its visual austerity.\r\n\r\nAs
    to the first, Renner wrote in 1922 that 'the inscriptional Roman capital which
    stands at the head of European scripts is composed of triangle, circle and square.'\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quote1_4575.jpg]\r\n\r\nHe
    uses this quote from <em>Typografie als Kunst </em> twice for proofs of Futura.
    The first instance is in the sample he prepared for Ehmcke's 1925 book on new
    German type\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quote2_4263.jpg]\r\n\r\nand
    the second is from December 1927, after the initial release of the face.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quote3_3768.jpg]\r\n\r\nRenner
    didn't set out to rationalize the upper and lower case alphabets by drawing them
    geometrically. The geometry was already there in the system of proportions based
    on the relationship between the circle and the square. This point was also made
    by Edward Johnston, Rudolph Koch, and Rudolph von Larisch. Before World War I,
    Renner derived his instructional method for lettering from contact with Johnston's
    student Anna Simons. His brief description of starting Futura includes mention
    that he started out, 'just as he has his students do.'\r\n\r\nWhat he did do,
    with the assistance of his former student and Bauer employee, Heinrich Jost was
    strip away any artifacts of the hand. \r\n\r\nHis view that \"[Variation in stroke
    thickness], which script took from the wide-cut nib, are, like all other handwritten
    elements, not necessary components of these language marks,\" was modified by
    the work of Heinrich Jost. Jost apparently convinced him that a tapering reduction
    in stroke weight where bowls join stems wasn't an effect of the pen, but a necessary
    optical correction. While Jost was a student in the school Renner directed before
    World War I, Renner had employed Hans Cornelius to teach his students about the
    physiology of sight. The untapered perpendicular joins of the bottom of the b
    and d to their respective stems is sometimes cited as an example of the calligraphic,
    non-geometric quality of Gill Sans.\r\n\r\nThe key to this insistence on austerity
    and removing traces of the hand doesn't lie in attitudes about constructivism
    and the modern. It is revealed in Renner's discussion of Edgar Dacqu\xE9's primalist
    theories. Here's an example. \"\u2026 fraktur is not actually of German origin.
    It is the last ornate offshoot of Gothic scripts\u2026\". The key words are \"last
    ornate offshoot.\" Dacqu\xE9 held that all creatures that had ever evolved had
    within them a primal human <em>germ</em> that acted as a generative force. In
    different eras different species developed. These species failed to achieve ideal
    form because they were conditioned and limited by the environment in which they
    emerged. Because of these limits these branchings were ultimately dead-ends that
    could never achieve the ideal form \"sought\" by the primal force. Renner applied
    Dacqu\xE9's idea to the history of European scripts. So when letters are created
    in a time of wide-nibs, they fail to achieve their ideal form because of the limitations
    of the tool that physically define them.\r\n\r\n\r\nTo be true to his own time
    and best express the primal letter, he believed that Futura could exhibit no artifacts
    of other eras.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-20 18:35:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I suspect that the origin of Futura occurred to Renner in an instant: a mental
    pattern-matching of the circle+square+triangle of the Roman inscriptional capital
    with the same elemental forms exhibited in various modern art movements.\r\n\r\nThat
    the type which merged these ideas should be a monoline sans followed automatically
    from the reductive modernist component, as well as through his experience in calligraphy--as
    you say, \"as his students do\", i.e. starting out with the monoline skeleton.\r\n\r\n<em>The
    key to this insistence on austerity and removing traces of the hand doesn\u2019t
    lie in attitudes about constructivism and the modern.</em>\r\n\r\nOn the contrary,
    when modernism was the style, he produced the stripped-down Futura. Subsequently,
    he produced two more types, Ballade, a busy \"broad-nibbed\" gothic (blackletter)
    style, and the extremely chirographic Renner Antiqua.\r\n\r\nSo it seems to me
    that Dacqu\xE9's theory is a rationalization for what Renner wanted to realize
    in modernist times, and when the bloom was off that rose, he moved on to produce
    a fully-fledged gothic and an Antiqua. \r\n\r\nAs he abandoned Dacqu\xE9's theory
    after his modernist fling, this indicates that his relationship with modernism
    was the driving force in Futura's monoline simplicity.\r\n\r\nHowever, it could
    be argued that Ballade and Renner Antiqua are attempts to redeem the wide-nibbed
    letter, firstly by giving a gothic style significant roman letterforms (Ballade),
    and secondly, vice versa, by \"gothicizing\" his Antiqua, a condensed, squarish,
    profusely serifed type.\r\n\r\nIf he were so dedicated to theory, and the commitment
    to produce types true to his own time, why would he embrace less ideal type-forms
    that were notably anachronistic? Perhaps he wearied of fashion, and could no longer
    deny the feel of the broad-nibbed pen in his hand.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2009-07-20 21:34:49'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: 'Good observations. I agree that for Renner, particularly the landscape painter
    who could never bring himself to completely disengage with the publishing industry,
    "the feel of the broad-nibbed pen in his hand" was important. '
  created: '2009-07-21 14:00:11'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "Does this belong to this thread anymore?\r\n\r\n\"This thesis reviews the
    circumstances that led to what Paul Renner called \uFFFDthe inflation of historicism,\uFFFD
    places his response to that problem in the context of the Weimar Republic, details
    how the German attributes with which he began the project were displaced from
    the typeface that emerged in 1927, demonstrates that Futura belongs to a new category
    of serif-less roman fonts rooted in Arts and Crafts lettering, and considers why
    the specifically German aspects of the project have gone unrecognized for over
    seventy years. Renner\uFFFDs writing is compared to ideas prevalent in early twentieth-century
    German cultural discourse, and Futura\uFFFDs design process is placed in the context
    of Renner\uFFFDs personal experience of Weimar\uFFFDs social and economic crises.
    Objective measurements are employed to establish the relationship between drawings
    attributed to Renner and are used to compare features of Futura with other fonts
    of the period.\"\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-07-23 14:35:21'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/60296#comment-357987\r\nGeorg\r\n_______________________________________________\r\n\u201EIch
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben...\u201C"
  created: '2009-07-25 10:18:21'
- author:
    name: David Rault
    picture: 112608
  body: "Charles Leonard: if you are still there on the forum, could you please send
    me an email?\r\n\r\nthanks,\r\n\r\nDavid Rault (davidrault -at- gmail)"
  created: '2010-07-28 09:05:36'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I\u2019d also be interested in talking again with Charles, since I did not
    visit the thread after he replied last year. I\u2019m tracking this again\u2026
    :)"
  created: '2010-07-29 14:40:55'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: David & Claudio -- I am still around. Working on improving the soil on my
    farm and exploring how the early 20th century German debate on the relative roles
    of civilization and culture bears on Renner's mind-set c. 1925.
  created: '2010-11-13 20:11:46'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "<cite>Working on improving the soil on my farm</cite>\r\n\r\nLiterally? :-)\r\n\r\nI
    will to contact you via PM."
  created: '2010-11-17 14:10:58'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: Claudio, yes literally. You'll be pleased to know that I am using an Italian
    tractor.
  created: '2010-12-08 01:57:02'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Charles Leonard:\r\n<cite>fonts like Times Roman disguise their modernist
    premise through appropriation of authority accrued to historic models. Further,
    such appropriation has become such a standard feature of 20th century typefounding
    that its implications frequently go unnoticed. Worse, appropriation of obvious
    historical authority obscures the true nature of fonts that, like Futura, have
    their own clearly discernable historical antecedants but access them in ways not
    in agreement with the \"official party line.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n(Annoyed John Cleese
    voice:) <em>Appropriation of historical authority?</em>\r\n\r\nWouldn't it be
    enough to say that humanist miniscule looked nice, and people were used to it,
    and it was readable, and so when Nicholas Jenson started from that, but made something
    more harmonious with the Roman capitals than rotunda, it looked nice, and people
    liked it - and so, even today, while type designers do try to express their own
    originality and creativity too, when they're making a design intended for practical
    use, they make one that's similar to what people already like and are used to.\r\n\r\nWith
    respect to your thesis rather than your posting, although the specifically German
    influence on Futura does generally go unmentioned in histories of printing types,
    in histories of typography in general (that is, the use of types as well as their
    design) the Weimar Republic and Bauhaus and all that figure rather prominently.
    After all, the other major geometric sans-serif is Kabel.\r\n\r\nThus, rather
    than looking for complicated reasons, I suspect that historians of printing types
    simply go with Italian: Jenson; French: Garamond; Dutch: Elzevir; English: Caslon...
    and then, what with Didot being French, and Bodoni being Italian, they just throw
    up their hands and proclaim that type design became international from then on.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, as I progress further into your thesis, I find it eminently sensible
    to suspect that Paul Renner's reason for not leaving Germany was because of his
    age - and that any left-wing politics associated with the Weimar period that may
    have influenced the design of Futura would have been an embarrassment to be passed
    over in silence as Futura graced advertising copy in post-war America.\r\n\r\nI
    just wouldn't have felt it necessary to slag Times Roman for paying homage to
    Caslon. Kowtowing to an authoritarian political model? Given that British history,
    despite the unpleasantness of the Industrial Revolution, went as well as it did
    because nonsense like the French Revolution and the rise of Napoleon or Mussolini
    happened over there rather than in Britain, many people in Britain quite legitimately
    felt there was something to be said for respecting authority.\r\n\r\nIn short,
    I think your problem is that you're the sort of person that prefers other kinds
    of novels to <em>The Lord of the Rings</em>."
  created: '2010-12-08 04:13:00'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: I'm sure he could have written it the way you suggested. I'm equally sure
    that it would have cost him points for sounding too much like he was writing for
    <em>kindergarten!</em> (scoff, scoff)
  created: '2010-12-08 12:14:25'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "Now, now. \r\nJohn Savard > You are right, I do not like Tolkien\u2014I prefer
    Sterne, Dickens, and Trollope.\r\n<cite>when Nicholas Jenson started from that,
    but made something more harmonious with the Roman capitals than rotunda</cite>\r\nHumanist
    minuscule accompanied by Roman capitals was developed by Poggio Braccolini and
    others as a manuscript hand a half-century before Jenson in Venice and Rusch in
    Strasburg chose to adapt that style to printing precisely because humanist minuscule
    was used for humanist texts. When they published law and theological documents
    they used textura, b\xE2tarde was used for romances, and so forth.\r\n<cite>the
    other major geometric sans-serif is Kabel</cite>\r\nI believe that placing Futura
    in the category of geometric sans-serif is incorrect and obscures its real origin.
    My point in the thesis is that Futura, Gill Sans and Kabel are serif-less roman
    styles that at heart are Arts and Crafts styles with the accretions of history
    removed/replaced by adherence to the machine aesthetic current at the time of
    their creation.  \r\nPersonally I admire Times Roman as a creation of modernity
    as masterful as Futura. It is just that Times Roman's functional modernity goes
    unnoticed because it appears to be a traditional style. "
  created: '2010-12-11 14:27:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "I agree that Times Roman is very much a modern typeface, even though for
    its functional purpose it takes much from traditional styles. I hope it was clear
    my tongue was somewhat in cheek, even if I was ribbing you rather hard for what
    I felt was a bit too much politics in your thesis. Although that sort of thing
    may be normal in Arts faculties these days.\r\n\r\nYou make an interesting point
    about the categorization of Kabel and Futura. I can't be certain if it is valid,
    but there is <em>one</em> piece of evidence which even I can see - to which you
    did make reference in your thesis, by comparing the proportions of Futura Medium
    with those of Trajan - that might be noted. Kabel and Futura, as well as Optima
    and Gill Sans for that matter, all have the narrow capital E and F characteristic
    of the Trajan Column lettering, as opposed to the somewhat wider form of those
    letters even in most Roman typefaces."
  created: '2010-12-11 19:01:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "It's moot as to whether those proportions are derivative or coincidental,
    or whether they are the merely the hallmark of geometrically reductive form in
    any era in which it manifests.\r\n\r\nCertainly, if one is interested in simplifying
    the basic letter shapes to a geometric schema, and has some knowledge of type
    history, one would be aware of previous eras in which similar design tactics were
    employed. Not just in Antiquity, but the Renaissance too (e.g. another German's
    work, the <em>mathematician</em> Albrecht Durer.\r\n\r\nHowever, I would say that
    rather than being a dominant progenitor, that awareness would have acted as a
    bonus, reinforcing the contemporary strands of Arts and Crafts simplicity; Purism,
    De Stijl and Constructivist philosophy (and these were very intellectually grounded
    movements);  Art Deco geometrics; and also perhaps the appeal of an ur-antiqua
    letterforms for Germans schooled in Fraktur.  How could Renner resist, when so
    many pointers were in the same direction?\r\n\r\nFutura is a great typeface because
    like all great design, it achieves a purity and universal usefulness by relating
    to and resolving all kinds of issues, simplifying and uniting complexities. There
    is no one origin from which it is derived, but many."
  created: '2010-12-11 19:52:17'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I agree that Futura could have had the many of the sources Nick stated above.
    \ My theory is more that such sources were amalgamated in Renner's collective
    memory and not specifically looked upon as models for his design of the face.
    He was right in the thick of the Modernists and Constructivists such that I think
    he contributed far more to them than he borrowed back.\r\nI feel Futura is a landmark
    typeface and worthy of note.  That is not to say that I want to read another book
    set in it as a text face. Never the less, it was a ground breaker."
  created: '2010-12-11 20:22:09'
- author:
    name: charleski
  body: "I see a spammer has bumped this (and several other older threads) to the
    top. While unfotunate, this did expose Mr Leonard's thesis to new readers, and
    I'd like to thank him for posting it for us. Georgia State has reorganised their
    archives, and the thesis can now be found at\r\n [[http://digitalarchive.gsu.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1001&context=art_design_theses]]."
  created: '2012-12-27 12:30:54'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "That\u2019s actually fortunate, because it\u2019s a great thesis, and I hope
    to be in touch with Charles once again in the future. :-)"
  created: '2012-12-27 18:29:50'
- author:
    name: Chris Dean
    picture: 111971
  body: "@charleski: Please email me the username whenever you find spam.\r\n\r\ntypographer@gmail.com"
  created: '2012-12-27 19:21:39'
date: '2006-02-24 00:57:53'
title: 'Paul Renner and Futura: The Effects of Culture, Technology, and Social Continuity
  On the Design of Type for Printing'

---
