---
author:
  name: Uli
body: "While it is easy to find attestable quotations for the use of the nouns \"type
  foundry, foundry type, type founder, type founding, etc.\", it seems to me that
  the verb \"to found\" is a ghost word in modern English dictionaries.\r\n\r\nDoes
  anyone know whether the English verb \"to found\" included in almost all modern
  British and American dictionaries WITHOUT the caveat \"dated, archaic, etc.\" and
  usually defined as \"to melt lead and pour into a mold; to cast foundry type, etc.\"
  has ever been used during the past two centuries?\r\n\r\nCan anyone supply attested
  quotations for the verb \"to found\" from any book on or by type-foundries published
  during the past 200 years?\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: I think the etymo is French, "fonte" (thaw).
  created: '2006-02-26 14:10:56'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "From the online Oxford Dictionary which comes installed with OS X:\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\n<strong>found</strong>
    2 verb [ trans. ] \r\n\r\n1 establish or originate (an institution or organization),
    esp. by providing an endowment : <em>the monastery was founded in 1665</em> |
    [as adj. ] ( <strong>founding</strong>) <em>the three founding partners.</em>
    \r\n\u2022 plan and begin the building of (a town or colony). \r\n\r\n2 (usu.
    <strong>be founded on/upon</strong>) construct or base (a principle or other abstract
    thing) according to a particular principle or grounds : <em>a society founded
    on the highest principles of religion and education. </em>\r\n\u2022 (of a thing)
    serve as a basis for : <em>the company's fortunes are founded on its minerals
    business. </em>\r\n\r\nORIGIN Middle English : from Old French <strong><em>fonder</em></strong>,
    from Latin <strong><em>fundare</em></strong>, from <strong><em>fundus \u2018bottom,
    base.\u2019 </em></strong>\r\n\r\n<strong>found</strong> 3 verb [ trans. ] \r\n\r\nmelt
    and mold (metal). \r\n\u2022 fuse (materials) to make glass. \r\n\u2022 make (an
    article) by melting and molding metal. \r\n\r\nORIGIN early 16th cent. : from
    French <strong><em>fondre</em></strong>, from Latin <strong><em>fundere \u2018melt,
    pour.\u2019</em></strong>\r\n\r\n----\r\n\r\nNothing about it being an archaic
    word, although these are the 2nd and 3rd senses--the first being found as in \"I
    found a penny!\" (although you could mean sense 3 in this case)."
  created: '2006-02-26 15:27:32'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> From the online Oxford Dictionary which comes installed with OS X:\r\n\r\nThe
    great 20-volume Oxford English Dictionary has this attested quotation:\r\n\r\n1672
    Marvell Reh. Transp. i. 6:\r\n\"Lead, when moulded into Bullets, is not so mortal
    as when *founded* into Letters!\"\r\n\r\nHere *founded* was definitely used in
    the sense of \"to cast, to melt\"\r\n\r\nBut the question is whether \"to found\"
    (meaning: to cast) was still used in the centuries after 1672. Any later quotations
    from any books on typefoundries, typesetting etc. would be appreciated."
  created: '2006-02-26 17:06:47'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Um, I've no quotations... However: my trusty, dog-eared copy of <em>Webster's</em>
    (copyright 1986), which could be called archaic, :-) does not use that qualifier
    when refering to <strong>found</strong> (just as Mark says about the online <em>Oxford
    Dictionary</em>).\r\n\r\nAlso, <em>Webster's</em> uses the verb <strong>found</strong>
    in this entry:\r\n\r\n4 <strong>founder</strong> <em>n</em> (ca. 1547): one that
    <em><strong>founds</strong></em> metal; <em>specif</em>: TYPEFOUNDER\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-27 05:16:50'
- author:
    name: smarks
    picture: 109688
  body: "> \"Lead, when moulded into Bullets, is not so mortal as when founded into
    Letters!\"\r\n\r\nNice! But... does it mean that Bullets have shorter lives than
    Letters, or that Letters are deadlier than Bullets? Both seem true.\r\n\r\ns'marks\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 06:14:48'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "I am surprised that none of the members of this American Typophile website
    knows whether the verb \"to found\" has been used by type founders during the
    past two centuries.\r\n\r\nIf English were my mother tongue, I would not have
    asked.\r\nIf English were my mother tongue, I would have known the answer.\r\n\r\nThe
    French think that many / most / all Americans are superficial:\r\n\r\n1st degree
    stereotype: \xAB Les Am\xE9ricains sont trop superficiels \xBB\r\n2nd degree stereotype:
    \xAB TOUS les Am\xE9ricains sont superficiels \xBB\r\n3rd degree stereotype: \xAB
    Quelle bande de cons ces Ricains! \xBB\r\n\r\nConsidering that the American members
    of this Typophile website constantly talk about type foundries and about type
    founders and about the American Type Founders (e.g. a few hours ago at this thread:
    http://typophile.com/node/18179), I wonder how I am to describe the fact that
    none of these typophiles (really ?) knows whether the verb \"to found\" was ever
    used by the American Type Founders (ATF). Should I describe this as \"odd\" or
    as \"strange\", or should I say:\r\n\r\n\xAB Quelle bande de cons ces Ricains!
    \xBB"
  created: '2006-02-28 09:23:01'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>If English were my mother tongue, I would have known the answer.</em>
    Bollocks\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-02-28 11:49:12'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Very few Typophile members (including type designers) have experience with
    actual type founding. Not all Americans who are knowledgeable about the history
    typefounding are Typophile members.\r\n\r\nI can tell you that the verb \"to found\"
    is not in common usage among contemporary type designers, even though it is common
    to speak of \"digital type foundries,\" a usage which is simply metaphorical.
    Nowadays, you \"design\" or \"develop\" or \"generate\" a font, you don't found
    it; there is no molten metal involved anymore. If \"to found\" is not archaic
    yet, it is on its way, at least in regards to type."
  created: '2006-02-28 17:10:27'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "You know there's a stereotype that the Franch are arrogant, too? :-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 18:18:09'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Elliott, I think Uli is German, but let's not descend to stereotypes.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-02-28 18:35:13'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "Uli, you need a course in sociolinguistics. And manners.\r\n\r\nContemporary
    experts in any field may be excused, I think, for not being able to trot out an
    instant repertoire of specific \"attestable quotations\" that include a rare and
    archaic word which happens to have some etymological connection to other words
    in the field in which they practice their expertise. \r\n\r\nAnd posing a question,
    then expressing \"surprise\" about not getting an immmediate and satisfying answer,
    as well as rehearsing for us your stereotypes of \"Americans,\" is just bad manners.\r\n\r\nBefore
    your obnoxious second note, I'd have been happy at least to look around to help
    you out. Now, I'd just say: go research it yourself."
  created: '2006-03-02 21:53:12'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Uli, you need a course in sociolinguistics. And manners.\r\n\r\nI retort:\r\n\r\njlg4104,
    you need a course in linguistics. And in lexicography.\r\n\r\nThe current 11th
    edition of \"Webster's Collegiate Dictionary\" and also \"Webster's Third New
    International Dictionary\" use two temporal labels:\r\n\r\n- \"obsolete\" means
    that there is no evidence of use since 1755.\r\n- \"archaic\" means that a word
    is found today only sporadically.\r\n\r\nThen Webster's defines:\r\n\r\n\"Words
    current in all regions of the U.S. have no label.\"\r\n\r\nThe verb \"to found
    (= to melt etc.)\" has no label.\r\n\r\nSo, \"to found\" is a verb  \"current
    in all regions of the U.S.\".\r\n\r\nIt is neither obsolete nor archaic for Webster's
    lexicographers.\r\n\r\nBut there is not ONE American at Typophile who can give
    an attestable quotation for this verb which is \"current in all regions of the
    U.S.\"\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jlg4104
      picture: 111297
    body: "And I counter-retort: Dictionaries are sprawling, decades-long projects
      and often include entries that are out of date. They attempt to describe (not
      PREscribe) the uses of various lexical items. You have a \"Webster's\" that
      says \"to found\" is \"current in all regions of the U.S.\" Guess what! Your
      Webster's is WRONG. IT IS INCORRECT. I've lived in several regions of the U.S.;
      it's never come up in any conversation I recall, nor, for that matter, in any
      book I've read (and please don't challenge my literacy on that count, thank
      you very much).\r\n\r\nMoreover, if you'd taken your courses in linguistics,
      you'd know that texts sometimes to use \"metadiscourse\" to explain what they
      are doing with their own words. That is PRECISELY WHY your Webster's provides
      a clarification of how they are using \"archaic\" and \"obsolete\"-- in common
      discourse, we don't use them quite the way Webster's does. And that is FINE.
      As any linguist would tell you.\r\n\r\nNow, back to the matter at hand: you
      posed a question. You got some responses from people TRYING TO ASSIST YOU. And
      you hurled an insult instead of gratitude, simply because their answers somehow
      confounded your preconceived notion of what you'd expect to learn. That, again,
      is BAD MANNERS. And, for your own sake, it's impractical, because it simply
      results in people responding as I am now: not with help, but with rants that
      amount to: bite me. This cockamamie politics of etymology would perhaps impress
      a third-rate 19th-century philologist but does absolutely nothing for me.  "
    created: '2006-03-04 07:46:31'
  created: '2006-03-02 23:45:16'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "To second Mark's comments: there aren't a lot of practising type designers
    who have ever founded type. The technology is (practically) obsolete, and even
    printing techniques which can employ metal types can also employ plates created
    from digital files, which are far less time-consuming to create and whose results
    are more predictable.\r\n\r\nI don't have a copy of Updike to hand, so can't read
    through the section on 19th-century American foundries to find a citation for
    Uli. Perhaps there are members who can help Uli, but perhaps that number has dwindled
    to zero after s/he implied that all Americans are \"con\". As a Quebec-born U.S.
    resident, I'm completely uninclined to help Uli after s/he so berated and insulted
    my American friends."
  created: '2006-03-02 23:52:47'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Even though I should be insulted.\r\n\r\n[edit. stooping isn't attractive.]\r\n\r\nIn
    regards to found as verb, and this is from memory, but I think they used the term
    \"cutting\" and not \"founding\" in regards to the creation of typefaces.\r\n\r\nWhat
    is your bibliography so far? "
  created: '2006-03-03 00:06:40'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I have found a quote with found used with this meaning but in the bell founding
    business.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-03-03 09:55:06'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "1.\r\nI only quoted what the French think about Americans. I am not a Frenchman.\r\n\r\n2.\r\nHot-metall
    typesetting is not as old as some youngsters may think. For instance, Linotype
    discontinued the production of its hot-metall typesetting machines as of 1st January
    1977. That is less than 30 years ago.\r\n\r\n3.\r\nAn answer to the usage of the
    verb \"to found\" might be given by the type founders who established these new
    type foundries:\r\n\r\nP22 Type Foundry\r\nProcess Type Foundry\r\nPSY/OPS Type
    Foundry\r\nShinn Type Foundry\r\nSkyline Type Foundry\r\nStone Type Foundry\r\nStorm
    Type Foundry\r\nT.26 Type Foundry\r\nUnderware Type Foundry\r\n\r\nAt least theoretically,
    it could be within the realm of possibility that one of these type founders who
    established the above type foundries might have pondered about the usage of the
    expression \"to found type\".\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-03 10:58:13'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Uli, the verb will not often be used in its simple transitive form because
    it applies ambiguously to the sequence of processes involved in making type. The
    normal word for the pouring of metal into matrices is casting. But Updike writes
    of "type-founding" (PT 2nd ed II.247), so does Goudy (at the very start of Typologia),
    and a search for "type-founding" gives lots more references.
  created: '2006-03-03 13:44:18'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>P22 Type Foundry\r\nProcess Type Foundry\r\nPSY/OPS Type Foundry\r\nShinn
    Type Foundry</em> -- Canada<em>\r\nSkyline Type Foundry\r\nStone Type Foundry\r\nStorm
    Type Foundry</em> -- Czech Republic<em>\r\nT.26 Type Foundry\r\nUnderware Type
    Foundry</em> -- Netherlands\r\n\r\nFYI: Only six of those are American. Only one
    actually casts metal type.\r\n\r\nFWIW, I think you're right that \"to found\"
    has become archaic and is no longer used by English speakers with regard to type."
  created: '2006-03-03 16:09:42'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "There are a lot of people named \"Smith\" who have never made horseshoes.\r\n\r\n\"Type
    Foundry\" is understood by members of the design community to mean a company which
    publishes typeface designs, usually in digital form because 99% of the customers
    for these typeface designs are working on computers. It's one of those instances
    of the original source of a word getting lost to most users of the word; they
    don't know where the term comes from but they continue to use it."
  created: '2006-03-03 17:42:34'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Your Webster\u2019s is WRONG. IT IS INCORRECT.\r\n\r\nYour? They were made
    by American linguists, not by me.\r\n\r\nBut I am pleased that you admit that
    American Webster's dictionaries are incorrect. If a non-American had stated this
    fact, you would have accused him of \"bad manners\".\r\n\r\nFor those who happen
    to be acquainted with Sanskrit, Greek or Latin, I uploaded a document explaining
    the etymology of the noun \"font\":\r\n\r\nSee http://www.sanskritweb.net/fontdocs/font.pdf\r\n\r\nThe
    linguistic layman, Mr. jlg4104, who is not familiar with Sanskrit etc., had better
    not download this file.\r\n\r\nIncidentally, the word \"typophile\", formerly
    spelt \"typophil\", is attested since at least 1889 (Pall Mall G.16 Feb.1/2: \"Two
    publications which will receive and deserve the attention of all typophils\").\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-04 18:37:55'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Surely a typophil is a person involved in the typographic arts whose name
    also happens to be Phil, such as Phil Baines. Who might also be an \u0153nophil,
    like Prince Philip, the royal consort."
  created: '2006-03-04 19:14:44'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>> Your Webster\u2019s is WRONG. IT IS INCORRECT.\r\n\r\nYour? They were
    made by American linguists, not by me.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is getting silly. Uli,
    are you intentionally trying to drive people mad here? I'm sure he used \"your
    Webster's\" to mean \"the copy of Webster's in your possession.\" It's fairly
    common usage in English."
  created: '2006-03-04 22:29:06'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "Uli,\r\n\r\nMark is right. This is getting silly. Now, I will refrain from
    haranguing you, which is, no matter what the prompting, somewhat rude of me I
    suppose. I will ask, based on the quotes from your own notes below, WHY ARE YOU
    ASKING about this point of a specific term's historical usage? Based on the quotes
    below, it looks like you want to know if we (Americans?) know of the word \"to
    found\" being used in the specific way you've mentioned, in specific texts. Clearly,
    WE DON'T. And we've supplied that point with the caveat that we MAY NOT BE ABLE
    TO BECAUSE THE WORD ISN'T USED much in that sense, nor HAS IT EVER, as far as
    we know. In fact, you make this point yourself: \r\n\r\n\"While it is easy to
    find attestable quotations for the use of the nouns \u201Ctype foundry, foundry
    type, type founder, type founding, etc.\u201D, it seems to me that the verb \u201Cto
    found\u201D is a ghost word in modern English dictionaries.\"\r\n\r\nBINGO. There
    is your answer! And, given the quoted material below, it sounds like you've done
    more research than any of us on this topic anyway.\r\n\r\nWhich leaves me wondering,
    again, WHY are you asking this? Are you trying to get somebody to dig up old archival
    materials that might contain the word you seek and then to supply you with chapter
    and page number? That's an awfully bold request, if so. Or, are you just trying
    to find out how the word has been used historically, for some research project
    you've not yet mentioned? If so, just TELL US WHY this project is important and
    interesting. Maybe it'll jog somebody's memory or inspire somebody to help out.
    In the meantime, I am simply baffled by your attitude, since you seem already
    to have ASKED AND ANSWERED YOUR OWN QUESTION.\r\n\r\n- jlg4104, \"layman linguist\"
    (haha)\r\n\r\n\r\nULI WROTE:\r\n\r\n\"Can anyone supply attested quotations for
    the verb \u201Cto found\u201D from any book on or by type-foundries published
    during the past 200 years?\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\"P22 Type Foundry\r\nProcess Type Foundry\r\nPSY/OPS
    Type Foundry\r\nShinn Type Foundry\r\nSkyline Type Foundry\r\nStone Type Foundry\r\nStorm
    Type Foundry\r\nT.26 Type Foundry\r\nUnderware Type Foundry\r\n\r\nAt least theoretically,
    it could be within the realm of possibility that one of these type founders who
    established the above type foundries might have pondered about the usage of the
    expression 'to found type.'\""
  created: '2006-03-05 04:01:17'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.british-history.ac.uk/report.asp?compid=22176&strquery=type%20founding\r\n\r\n<em>A
    History of the County of Middlesex: Volume 2 - General; Ashford, East Bedfont
    with Hatton, Feltham, Hampton with Hampton Wick, Hanworth, Laleham, Littleton\r\nWilliam
    Page (Editor) (1911)</em>\r\nparagraph 4 and others\r\nthe other appearances of
    <em>found</em> in the precis probably explain why it is rarely used.\r\n\r\nBut
    as I have said it seems to be more prevalent in the bell industry\r\nhttp://www.russianbells.com/history/history2.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.livinggloucester.co.uk/made/bell_founding/origins_of_bell_founding/\r\n\r\nand
    the glass industry\r\nhttp://www.emek-ua.com/en/production/specialpurity/specialpurity_318.html\r\n\r\nyou
    could always google you know\r\nhttp://www.google.com/search?hl=en&lr=&client=safari&rls=en&q=type-founding&btnG=Search\r\n\r\nIn
    conclusion it would seem that Webster's is not wrong just not specific enough
    about your subject.\r\n\r\nBTW <em>1. I only quoted what the French think about
    Americans. I am not a Frenchman.</em>\r\nThat is not an excuse and you know it.\r\n\r\nTim"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jlg4104
      picture: 111297
    body: "Great stuff, Tim. Those are some great references.\r\n\r\nThank you."
    created: '2006-03-05 15:59:44'
  created: '2006-03-05 11:25:49'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> A History of the County of Middlesex, Volume 2... 1911:\r\n\r\n\"He *founded*
    his own types, which were of beautiful design\"\r\n\r\nThanks, Tim. That settles
    it. Thanks again. \r\n\r\n\r\nFor the next few days, I will forget linguistics,
    since several files of American torture and concentration camps have just been
    published:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.defenselink.mil/pubs/foi/detainees/csrt/index.html\r\n\r\nI
    have just read a \"Detainee Statement\" of a boy who was about 10 years old when
    he was kidnapped by Americans and who is now 13 years old and who made this statement
    to a concentration camp officer whose name has been blackened:\r\n\r\n\"I made
    a mistake because I left home to see my brother. If you want to punish me; it's
    enough because I have been here three years. I lost my school. I am far from my
    family my sisters and my brothers. I lost three years here. Please look at my
    age and I want to go to my life. That's it all I have to say.\"\r\n\r\nConsidering
    that Americans run concentration camps, where school kids are detained and tortured
    for many years and are never allowed to see any lawyer or judge, makes it understandable
    why the French do not approve of \"Ricains\".\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-05 16:45:31'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Dear typophile community, I'd like you to do some bibliographic research for
    me. You scum. Thanks, and make it snappy. (You scum.)
  created: '2006-03-05 18:49:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "OK, Chester, I'd be happy to.  We scum just jump at the chance to help those
    who call us names. Even if we are appauled by some of the actions of our current
    government, we happily drop everything in our lives to help the people that insult
    us most so you better start calling us names worse than scum or your request will
    be put on the bottom of the pile. ;-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-05 19:00:45'
- author:
    name: .
  body: You know what the Papuans call Americans, right? "Olu laak, ohu k'waanai."
    I'm not saying I agree with them, I'm just letting you know. You scum.
  created: '2006-03-05 20:59:55'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Uli,\r\nI have to say that I am disappointed, I was prepared to give you
    a chance to apologise for insulting many of the habitu\xE9es and the creators
    and maintainers of these forums. Your petulance and plain bad manners make me
    wish I had not posted those references and I will not help you again, I hope that
    they are of interest to any other visitors.\r\nThe references I found were the
    work of about 20 minutes, a bit of imagination and a search engine, I would prefer
    it if you actually do your own work from now on and incubate your hatred in your
    own dark corner. Disguising your own prejudices behind your take on French opinion
    is disgusting cowardice.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-03-06 10:51:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "When I started my font publishing business (aka \"foundry\") in 1999, I tried
    hard to think up a clever name like \"Device\" \"Sysops\" or \"Virus\", but being
    the vain unimaginative fellow I am, settled on ShinnType. The full legal name
    is Shinn Type Foundry Inc., which is in my distributor contracts, so some of them
    end up billing (now there's an old printing term I'm perpetuating) me as \"Shinn
    Type Foundry\", although it's really only appropriate for legal documents, which
    tend to be somewhat archaic.\r\n\r\nI never found fonts. For the same reason that
    although I scroll when I surf, it's pages that I look at, and I never get my feet
    wet.\r\n\r\nThere is one frequent contemporary usage of \"found\" as a verb, as
    a past participle relating to the establishment of a business. This archaic usage
    has persisted because of the tag-line that indicates a comapany is no fly-by-night
    outfit, and \"founded in 1999\" is a permanent statement.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-06 18:14:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"indicates a comapany is no fly-by-night outfit, and \u201Cfounded in 1999\u201D'\r\n\r\nSo
    then it is not a new found thing? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-06 18:24:30'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "Nothing I can do about blind, raging, paranoid, bizarre, unFOUNDED anti-American
    rants (pun intended). I'm an American, and I think I'm a pretty decent fellow.
    I've met some nice Europeans and Asians in my lifetime as well. Seems most people
    are pretty decent, in fact. But some find themselves succumbing to delusions of
    grandeur and/or persecution. Well, persecution does exist-- and everywhere people
    may  say it does under American auspices, I'm perfectly willing to consider possible.
    Technically, I'm a Jew, which means that to some, me and my ancestors were little
    more than grubby little dark-skinned Semites bent on BOTH destroying and taking
    over the world (a rather poor strategy, no?), not completely out of league with
    Arabs and Muslims. So, in a strange twist of fate, I share the genes and culture
    of both the oppressed and the oppressors. But I DIGRESS.\r\n\r\nThe BEAUTY of
    this discussion is that I was inspired to do some reading, and I actually DID
    find an \"attestable\" quote, sort of: an article referenced in an MA thesis,
    article which is titled \"Optical scale in type founding,\" where by \"founding\"
    I assume is meant the whole process from design to melting and casting the type.
    It appeared first in Typography, No.4, 1937, p. 144. Sadly, I have no access to
    this article. \r\n\r\nBut there you have it."
  created: '2006-03-06 19:43:58'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Tim,\r\n\r\nI repeat: I only quoted what the French think about Americans.\r\n\r\nIs
    is not allowed in America to quote what the French think?\r\n\r\nAnd is is not
    allowed in America to quote what a school boy says who is being detained and tortured
    for years in American concentration camps?"
  created: '2006-03-06 21:31:42'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Uli, everything is allowed in Ameri... Actually, that's not true. But free
    speech, or free typing, is certainly encouraged here at Typophile. \r\n\r\nYou
    can't possibly back out of responsibility for insulting the American contingent
    here. May I remind you that you posted:\r\n\r\n\"Should I describe this as \u201Codd\u201D
    or as \u201Cstrange\u201D, or should I say:\r\n\xAB Quelle bande de cons ces Ricains!
    \xBB\"\r\n\r\nIf you're going to hurl insults, even in French, you have to be
    prepared to deal with the response you're going to get. \r\n\r\nOr as they say
    in Peru: \"That Uli sure is a wanker.\""
  created: '2006-03-06 23:46:12'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Or as they say in Peru: \u201CThat Uli sure is a wanker.\u201D\r\n\r\nHere's
    a photo showing me while wanking:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.de/files/wanking.jpg"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jlg4104
      picture: 111297
    body: "Uli,\r\n\r\nGlad you enjoy wanking; it's quite healthy. Maybe you could
      wank out a new typeface?\r\n\r\nSee, e.g., \"Splatz\" at <a href=\"http://page.freett.com/kentos/splatter02.html\"
      target=\"_blank\">page.freett.com</a>.\r\n\r\n- Jay"
    created: '2006-03-07 12:21:58'
  created: '2006-03-07 07:46:31'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Ulrich,\r\nI am British, I don't know what is allowed in America although
    the fact that those documents are released under an American law at the direction
    of an American court is revealing. I am assuming that \"quoting\" what the French
    think is allowed, however, can you really claim that your \"quote\" is attributable
    to all of France <em>(or, indeed, attributable at all)</em>? \r\nMy question is
    why do you need to \"quote\" anybody, if you have views you should be prepared
    to voice them as yourself and not hide behind your claims of what a nation \"thinks\".
    \r\nBut the point is, without any research on your part you have decided that
    you can lump all Americans into one political group with uniform views (as you
    have with the French); further you have decided that all Americans on these forums
    share the same views wheras it is quite clearly not true, I suspect your neighbour
    does not have the same political views as you. Beyond that you have approached
    a group of people who you don't know and having asked, received and accepted their
    help \u2013 turned round and insulted them; that is not the behaviour of any civilised
    adult, more the actions and uninformed intellect of a child.\r\nSo, come clean,
    tell us why you wanted the information and stop trying to be provocative it isn't
    big and isn't clever\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-03-07 12:08:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There was a time (perhaps some people still feel this way today as well)
    when all the atrocities of the Nazis were blamed on all Germans. To be German
    was to be Nazi was to be a villain. Your logic, lumping Americans into one cesspool,
    is quite similar.  That is to say, you being German, (by your own logic) are as
    responsible for the acts of other Germans as Americans are responsible for the
    acts of other Americans.  Hopefully, the world can get beyond the cheap and easy
    tactic of attributing negative traits to any entire group of people by just focusing
    on the acts of a few. This tactic is called racism or bigotry.  Are you a bigot
    Uli?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-07 16:18:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: The moderators have had to clean one thread already this week. If the question
    has been answered maybe this thread should be closed in order to discontinue all
    of this nonsense.
  created: '2006-03-07 17:10:10'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: Miss Tiffany is right. Sorry I contributed to the nonsense. It's easy to get
    caught up in it. There's certainly no reason to continue, though. Nevertheless,
    it was kinda fun while it lasted.
  created: '2006-03-07 17:33:27'
- author:
    name: .
  body: Close this thang! I think we've answered Uli's initial questions AND responded
    to his follow-up insults.
  created: '2006-03-07 18:01:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sorry folks, I did not mean to launch censure of a thread. Close it, by all
    means.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-07 18:20:57'
date: '2006-02-26 13:44:22'
title: '"I found a font" - attestable?'

---
