---
author:
  name: Stephen Coles
  picture: 128126
body: "<a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/showfont.cfm?fid=UR.110072.0.0\">[img:sites/default/files/old-images/urw-topic.png]</a>\r\n\r\nHello
  friends. I'm perpetually in love with Paul Renner's <a href=\"http://fontsinuse.com/typefaces/28702/steile-futura\">Steile
  Futura</a> (AKA Bauer Topic or URW Topic). I'm hoping those with type book collections
  can help me out with more information on its history and design. Digital versions
  are available from a few vendors, but none divulge any more than the number of weights
  and a price.\r\n\r\n<strong>Digital Versions</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/topic/\">URW
  Topic</a> at MyFonts\r\n<a href=\"https://www.fontshop.com/families/urw-topic\">URW
  Topic</a> at FontShop\r\n<a href=\"http://urwpp.de/bri/show_font_details.php?sprache=english&fontnummer=t040volume\">URW
  Topic</a> at URW++\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bertholdtypes.com/font/steile-futura/bq/\">Steile
  Futura BQ</a> at Berthold\r\n\r\n<strong>Articles</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.creativepro.com/story/feature/10560.html\">Renner
  article at creativepro.com</a> mentions a design date of 1953\u201355\r\n<a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/7-762-7/paulrenner.html\">Renner
  bio at Linotype</a> mentions design date of 1952.\r\n\r\n<strong>Reinterpretations
  and Followers</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Tasse\">Tasse</a>
  (Guy J. Nelson) This is the closest to a revival but strangely omits the italics
  which are the most interesting aspect of the original.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.emigre.com/EF.php?fid=121\">Solex</a>
  (Zuzanna Licko)\r\n<a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/typodermic/pakenham-boss/?refby=typographica\">Pakenham</a>
  (Ray Larabie)\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fountain.nu/catalogue/hybrid.asp\">Hybrid</a>
  (Simon Schmidt)\r\n\r\n<strong>In Use</strong>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.usc.edu/dept/architecture/shulman/\">L.A.
  Obscura: The Architectural Photography of Julius Shulman</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/stewf/53572902/in/photostream/\">\"The
  War Within\" movie poster</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/reader/0767915054/\">\"A
  Girl Named Zippy\" book cover</a>\r\n<a href=\"http://youworkforthem.com/product.php?sku=P0649\">H.N.
  Werkman book cover</a>\r\n\r\nThanks for your help. I don't have <a href=\"http://www.hyphenpress.co.uk/titles/paul_renner/synopsis.html\">Burke's
  Renner biography</a>. Anything in there?"
comments:
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "From Burke's book on Renner:\r\n\r\n\"A typeface actually called 'Renner-Grotesk'
    appeared in trial type castings by Stempel typefoundry in May 1936. The Stempel
    Renner-Grotesk was very condensed in its regular weight, with a consequent stress
    on the modular squareness of the letters (figure 115 [shown below--MS]). This
    design seems to have been taken over by the Bauer typefoundry in 1938, and in
    1939 the grotesk changed shape to some extent, becoming less modular and incorporating
    references to pen-made forms. The italic accompaniment to this grotesk, simply
    called Renner-Kursiv, was actually a true cursive, marking a decided difference
    between this typeface and Futura. Work on the Grotesk and Kursiv continued through
    the late 1930s and early 1940s. However, progress on these typefaces seems to
    have been very slow, perhaps due to Renner's failing health: he had a serious
    heart attack in 1948 (at 70 years of age) which restricted his activity. By 1951,
    Renner had begun to work again, and his Grotesk began to appear in 1952 from the
    Bauer typefoundry under the name of Steile Futura (figure 116 [shown below--MS]).
    Perhaps the typeface was renamed merely in order to link it to the successful
    Futura family.\"\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/renner-grot.gif]\r\n\r\nFigure
    115 (Renner-Grotesk)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/stil-fut.gif]\r\n\r\nFigure
    116 (Steile Futura)"
  created: '2006-02-28 03:10:11'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I think it's interesting how much the earlier version looks like Eurostile.
    Whether there is a connection I have no idea.
  created: '2006-02-28 03:12:26'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Thank you Mark! Those samples are glorious. So kind of you to scan and type
    for me.\r\n\r\nStill pretty mysterious. I wonder where the name \"Topic\" came
    from. Another foundry's copy?"
  created: '2006-02-28 03:41:34'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "I was wondering the same thing. For years, I only knew it as \"Bauer Topic,\"
    the name it shows up as in the VGC library and so on. Just guessing, but I wouldn't
    be surprised if the name was changed when it was marketed in the US, similar to
    the way Akzidenz Grotesk was marketed as \"Standard\" in the US.\r\n\r\nAs evidence
    for this, I have an art directors' type guide/manual published in 1959 which has
    short samples and text describing most of the metal display faces available in
    the US at that time (\"Practical Handbook on Display Typefaces\" by Kenneth B.
    Butler and George C. Likeness). It's listed as Bauer Topic and the text suggests
    that it had only recently become available."
  created: '2006-02-28 03:55:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Renner designed <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/futura-display/\">Futura
    Display</a> in 1932 for Bauer. It's nothing like Futura of course, but why waste
    a good brand name. It's a Black weight only face, and seems to be the precursor
    of Steile Futura (also nothing like Futura). No doubt Renner's sketch books have
    variations on the theme, over the years. Maybe I should call all my types Fontesque-something-or-other.\r\n\r\nThe
    <a href=\"http://www.canadiantire.ca/index.jsp\">Canadian Tire logo</a> is quite
    old, and uses Futura Display. (To even mention it is tempting fate for a re-brand,
    sorry.)\r\nNote the minuscule forms of cap M and N, as in Steile.\r\n\r\nEurostile
    was nicely done, but a ten-years-after family extension of Microgramma, the TV
    screen face. Zapf called its \"squared circle\" shape the supercurve, and used
    it in Melior. Univers has some of the same feel, especially evident in Frutiger's
    roughs, which were \"squarer\" than the way it eventually turned out. The supercurve
    is a different, newer shape than that of Steile Futura, which was a type in the
    well-known lettering genre of \"block gothic\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 04:25:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why waste a good brand name.\r\n\r\nTo not dilute it?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 04:31:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hmmm. It's also classier to have types arranged in families, with no ostracized
    black sheep, making your type specimen like a book with chapters. The Bauer specimen
    I have from the '30s is like that. <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bitstream/futura-black/futura-black/\">Futura
    Black</a> is another \"brand extension\"; did Renner design that also?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-02-28 04:40:29'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Indeed he did:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/futura-black.gif]\r\n\r\nIt
    doesn't say much about it in the book, but it's clear that it was intended as
    part of the original Futura family, not a brand extention."
  created: '2006-02-28 05:06:45'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: Futura Black is one of the first typefaces I recall noticing when I was a
    kid, not that I knew what it was called. It was on a package of sugar wafer cookies,
    I think.
  created: '2006-02-28 05:14:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>one of the first typefaces I recall noticing</em>\r\n\r\nMe too.\r\nThere
    was a \"big business\" TV series in the UK in the 1960s, called \"Mogul\" -- about
    an oil company, and its logo was the M from Futura Black. Also from that golden
    age of plastic, a credit card company called Access (Advantage, whatever!), its
    logo the A from Futura Black (that's how I remember it anyway)."
  created: '2006-02-28 06:27:58'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em>> (...)a \u201Cbig business\u201D TV series in the UK in the 1960s, called
    \u201CMogul\u201D \u2014 about an oil company, and its logo was the M from Futura
    Black.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're sure it wasn't a music company, ;^)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Motown.gif]"
  created: '2006-02-28 06:42:37'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "great to meet somebody else in love with steile futura! The contrast between
    the upright and italic is just gorgeous. \r\n\r\nI have a specimen (mid 50s) of
    Steile Futura Fett from Bauer here, will post scans up later today or tomorrow,
    if time allows and somebody's interested. There's also quite a few faux examples
    of it in use included with the specimen, mainly for advertising use, all with
    common german brand names on them, but surely made up by the foundry, i wonder
    if it  was an early attempt on getting that synergy-effect working with the foundry
    possibly getting paid by the respective companies?\r\n\r\ni also only have the
    information from the Renner book by C. Burke, but alweays wanted to know more
    about it's development, market success (i always thought 'you never see Steile
    Futura anywhere' and since got more familiar with it it seems to be everywhere!
    spotted it on a graphic card packaging, cleasning agent bottle, etc. just the
    other over here in germany)\r\n\r\non the naming issue, i always suspected that
    topic possibly was called that way not to get in trouble with that certain company
    from Illinois, which offers the only \"officially named\" Steile Futura\u2026
    if anyone could shed any light on this?\r\n\r\nthis is gonna be interesting\u2026"
  created: '2006-02-28 11:57:06'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "See, Steile Futura gets me so excited i can't type properly anymore\u2026
    :-)"
  created: '2006-02-28 11:59:10'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>on the naming issue, i always suspected that topic possibly was called
    that way not to get in trouble with that certain company from Illinois, which
    offers the only \u201Cofficially named\u201D Steile Futura\u2026 if anyone could
    shed any light on this?</em>\r\n\r\nThe company you're talking about didn't own
    the H. Berthold library until the nineties. Steile Futura was known as Bauer Topic
    in the US as far back as 1959, maybe earlier. Both names were used by Bauer, so
    it was some internal, possibly marketing, reason. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: franzheidl
    body: "I see. That sounds somewhat logic, as especailly the word \"Steile\" might
      seem strange to american ears. But then again, if the typeface was named Steile
      Futura to capitalize on the market success of \"real\" Futura, why didn't they
      choose this option for the US market as well - or wasn't Futura (the \"real\"
      one :-) popular in the US at all until the 50s?\r\n"
    created: '2006-03-01 10:19:35'
  created: '2006-02-28 15:05:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The lower case \"a\" in Futura Black is one of my all-time favorite glyphs.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-02-28 15:28:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>You\u2019re sure it wasn\u2019t a music company,</em>\r\n\r\nInternet
    search not successful.\r\nScreenonline has a page on the Mogul series, but the
    visual material (including a full episode which may hold the answer), is not accessible
    outside of the UK."
  created: '2006-02-28 16:24:57'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: franz - Yes, I'm interested. Gimme that specimen!
  created: '2006-02-28 17:17:08'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: me too!
  created: '2006-03-01 05:58:34'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Precision Type gave me the right to revise their cut of Topic a few years
    ago ... one of these days I''ll release it. It''s a great type. '
  created: '2006-03-01 08:13:52'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Good man, Troop. On with it!
  created: '2006-03-01 09:46:36'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "on the risk of making an idiot of myself -- how do i attach pics to messages
    on here? made pics of the specimen and would love to post them up\u2026\r\n\r\ntia"
  created: '2006-03-01 10:25:24'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: Franz, you need to have the Flash Player, version 8.0 or higher installed
    on your computer in order to be able to post images. Once that is installed, you'll
    notice a blue-green "Insert image" command appear directly underneath the "Comment:"
    box. To insert images, click on the command, and follow the simple instructions.
  created: '2006-03-01 10:38:35'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "many thanks dan.\r\n\r\nhere you go:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_0021.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_0022.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_0023.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_0024.jpg]\r\nand
    now for the examples:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_0025.jpg]\r\n\r\nbrilliant,
    eh?"
  created: '2006-03-01 10:47:49'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>There\u2019s also quite a few faux examples of it in use included with
    the specimen, mainly for advertising use, all with common german brand names on
    them, but surely made up by the foundry, i wonder if it was an early attempt on
    getting that synergy-effect working with the foundry possibly getting paid by
    the respective companies?</em>\r\n\r\nI can't say if there was any cross-marketing
    going on with Bauer's specimens, but the mocked-up ads is a very common trait
    of German typeface brochures from the early 20th century. The Ruhard'sche/Klingspor
    specimen book for Eckmann, which was printed sometime between 1900 and 1910, and
    the second half is filled with dummy-ads. I aso have some images from their late
    specimen book for Wallau <a href=\"http://www.typeoff.de/?p=29\">here</a>. Dummy
    ads are a good idea still, in my opinion. Sadly, when we design brochures today,
    some type designers don't want that stuff in their brochure!\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-01 10:57:49'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I'm not so sure that I see the name decision behind Steile Futura in the
    1930s and brand dilution\u2026 Steile Futura shares a number of \"Futura\" traits,
    like the single storey a, the straight j, the u without the foot, etc. Plus, Renner
    himself was not a recognized type designer yet. Futura was a hit, and it isn't
    bad to stand behind a hit, or build upon. Bringing a new \"name\" out, especially
    during a time of global depression (like the early 1930s), would have been a big
    business risk. What if no one paid any attention? Lots of good designs go neglected
    every day, sadly. Why not do what you can to avoid that? Just an idea\u2026"
  created: '2006-03-01 11:41:37'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "The legal successor of the Bauer foundry is Wolfgang Hartmann's Fundici\xF3n
    Tipogr\xE1fica Bauer (http://www.ftbauer.com/). They own the \"Futura\" trademark.
    Their fonts are available at http://www.myfonts.com/foundry/neufville/ , but of
    course there are many independent digitizations of Steile Futura and I doubt any
    single one could be called the \"original\". If at all, it would have to come
    from FT Bauer. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-03-01 12:01:52'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "True, true. The only current FT Bauer Steile Futura weight on Myfonts.com
    is <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/neufville/futura-nd-display/\">a single
    one called Futura ND dsiplay</a>. Linotype sells a licensed <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/89130/futuradisplay-font.html\">version</a>
    of this as well.\r\n\r\n[[Font Bureau]]'s <a href=\"http://www.fontbureau.com/fonts/Tasse\">Tasse</a>
    looks very nice."
  created: '2006-03-01 12:29:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Franz,\r\nFabulous stuff! Thanks for posting it. I had never seen that before.
    \ I hope they digitize the whole thing.\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-01 15:11:11'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "\"but of course there are many independent digitizations of Steile Futura
    and I doubt any single one could be called the \u201Coriginal\u201D. If at all,
    it would have to come from FT Bauer.\"\r\n\r\nI don't quite understand what you
    are saying, Adam. There are two primary digitizations. The first was Font Company's
    from a VGC photo master, of which the URW is an exact copy with every defect preserved.
    My impression is that Font Company did the work, and URW acquired the rights under
    typical IK licensing. This digitizations includes the two weights, medium and
    bold, both in regular and italic. The second primary digitization is Berthold's,
    which unfortunately is only of the rather less interesting bold. It differs from
    the FC version in many details. The FC/URW version is almost unusable because
    it is so amateurishly, in fact irrationally spaced and because there are so many
    incorrect glyphs. Both versions take considerable although not fatal liberties
    with the metal cut. In the metal, there is substantial variation from size to
    size, making it quite difficult to decide on proportions. In addition, the spacing
    is rather loose by contempoary standards. But Adam, what do you mean when you
    say that the original 'could only come from FT Bauer'? Everyone has access to
    the same specimens, and FT Bauer has not shown the slightest originality in any
    of its digitizations or design choices. If anyone is going to produce an 'original'
    Steile, I think it is very unlikely to be FT Bauer. Its Futura digitizations largely
    recklessly imitate, often point for point, previous translations of the fonts
    into photo from metal. Nowhere have we yet seen what we most need, a Futura intended
    for setting at text sizes, which in metal features the substantially reduced ascenders
    which are necessary to make the type viable at text sizes. Because we have not
    seen anything from 'FT Bauer' which in the slightest degree resembles research
    into original drawings or any effort to come to understand what the foundry originally
    did, I would conclude that FT Bauer does not actually possess any original artwork
    or pattern drawings, and is simply relying on precisely the same sources that
    are available to everyone else. So Adam, what makes FT Bauer so special? Based
    on past performance, any Steile FTB does will be a copy of the URW version with,
    one hopes, improved spacing. I do not see the smallest evidence that FT Bauer
    has ever done anything the hard way! You know, research into originals, redrawing,
    throwing out the old photo masters, rethinking,  reconceptualization, all that
    good stuff that makes good type what it is. Sure, their Futura is OK. But where
    is it substantially different from everyone else's? What evidence is there of
    historical research? As far as I can see, that foundry is all hype, hype, hype,
    and lawyers, lawyers, lawyers - rather like what Berthold has become under the
    combined weight of the two Hunts. To speak of these cloners as 'digitizing' anything
    reflects badly on what is, after all, a metier.\r\n\r\nIt is precisely because
    it is so difficult to digitize type from a 12 point specimen, without master drawings
    (and assuming that the drawings would actually be helpful in making the type,
    which does not follow), that I doubt 'FT Bauer' has any material that is different
    from anyone else's. They are making the same, sloppy, cost-effective decisions
    that everyone else does when confronted, in type, with the desirability of doing
    some really hard work. And this does not impress me. This is not what we need
    at this point in type history.\r\n\r\nStephen, I think you are very acute to be
    so obsessed with this type. It is still miles ahead of its time. I think in its
    original form that it is  still a little too shocking to see much use. But the
    skill with which it was conceptualized is what most impresses me. The relationsip
    between the bold and medium is particularly notable. There is no artificial bolding
    such as we all, conceptually (and sometimes literally) do. The different weights
    are independently thought out, which is as it should be. In certain respects,
    which I cannot describe because I don't fully understand them, I think it is the
    best typeface design I have ever seen, on a technical and aesthetic level that
    I could never aspire even to understanding, much less to rivalling. Perhaps Berlow,
    if he felt like it, could persuasively analyze what is going on in this remarkable
    typeface. \r\n\r\nIn the meantime I have a question. Jeff Level, when we first
    thought of redigitizing this typeface in 1993, felt strongly that the cap height
    should be reduced by about 10%. I can't get away from the feeling that if Renner
    had thought this a viable option he would have pursued it, and that pursuing it
    would cause all kinds of other unintended consequences. Does anyone have an opinion?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "<em> I can\u2019t get away from the feeling that if Renner had thought
      this a viable option he would have pursued it, and that pursuing it would cause
      all kinds of other unintended consequences. Does anyone have an opinion?</em>\r\n\r\nOn
      pages 22 \u2013 3 of <em>Die Kunst der Typographie,</em> Paul Renner writes
      briefly about his disatisfaction with the German Unified Standard Baseline.
      He felt it was too low on the type body, effectively shortening the descenders
      in relationship to the mean and cap heights in the font. He suggested, in these
      pages, that a solution would be to produce fonts that were reduced in size in
      the upper part of the type body and by \"\u2026 these means, the image of the
      type would become somewhat smaller; something no one will be annoyed with, given
      today's current preference for smaller types.  The descenders could once again
      become as long as with classic fonts, and it would leave sufficient space over
      the capital letter for the accents and umlauts. \u2026 So that once again type
      would look good in unleaded settings. \" Because he envisioned the descenders
      becoming proportionally longer, he was, in effect, proposing a reduction in
      cap height on the body, and I suspect that he would have considered the extra
      space a reasonable trade-off."
    created: '2006-03-02 22:27:37'
  created: '2006-03-01 19:48:48'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the same, sloppy, cost-effective decisions that everyone else does when
    confronted, in type, with the desirability of doing some really hard work.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't work that way all the time, honest! :-)"
  created: '2006-03-01 20:39:27'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Franz - <em>Thank you!</em> Where did you snag that beauty?\r\n\r\nDan -
    I believe Futura Display is a completely separate typeface from Steile Futura,
    not part of the same family.\r\n\r\nBill - On the cap height: I guess we're used
    to seeing ascenders rise above caps these days so it could make Steile feel a
    little more relevant, but I think the original is perfectly usable in today's
    design. See my examples. I've also seen a lot of it recently as the main face
    in museum and gallery exhibitions."
  created: '2006-03-01 20:45:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I do not see the smallest evidence that\r\n> FT Bauer has ever done anything
    the hard way!\r\n\r\nI do. I don't know about Futura, but their recent Pascal
    revival\r\nwas certainly a result of research (including getting the original\r\ndrawings
    from Mendoza y Almeida), thought and hard work.\r\n\r\n> if Renner had thought
    this a viable option he would have pursued it\r\n\r\nThis logic fails because
    Renner was not god. Everybody makes bad\r\ndecisions sometimes; not to mention
    that people change their mind\r\nquite often too!\r\n\r\nMost of all it depends
    how literal a revival intends to be.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-01 21:59:24'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">Where did you snag that beauty?\r\n\r\nThey're around. They also did English
    versions, again with faux ads, for instance for Emerson. I must say the faux ads
    are pretty badly thought out - - indeed the whole presentation is rather bad,
    nowhere near the level of some of the startlingly beautiful pages that Renner
    (I believe) created for the original release of Futura. I used one of Renner's
    original ads as the basis for a poster for a piano concert I gave a couple of
    years ago. What genius, so far ahead of nearly anything you see in contemporary
    design, <em>still</em> so much more modern."
  created: '2006-03-02 02:03:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bill, any idea where to find the Emerson one?\r\nIt's a design I've come
    to like a good deal:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/15269\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-02 02:29:32'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: I meant Steile ads for Emerson the company. I had some good Emerson the typeface
    material but it is either in storage or burnt in a fire. I thought it overrated
    the last time I looked at it but that was quite a while ago.
  created: '2006-03-02 06:57:45'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "Sorry to join the party so late. The Renner retrospective in:\r\nPhillipp
    Luidl, Compiled and edited by Philipp Luidl with Gunter Gerhanr Lange, \"Paul
    Renner,\" <em>Eine Jahresgabe der Typographischen Gesellschaft M\xFCnchen</em>
    Munich: Typographische Gesellschaft, 1978.\r\nDoes a good job of cataloging Renner's
    type design and provides reproductions of both drawings and proofs. I have a couple
    of images I have tried to attach (as png, gif, & jpeg), but they don't appear
    when I upload them. Advice please."
  created: '2006-03-02 22:03:02'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Advice please. \r\n\r\nSee the posting by Dan Reynolds above. And make sure
    they are RGB. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: William, thank you. The images were B&W. Here they are.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/p93-300dpi.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/p97-300dpi.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/p99-300dpi.jpg]
    created: '2006-03-02 22:41:33'
  created: '2006-03-02 22:20:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> overrated\r\n\r\nFor that to be the case people would have to actually
    know it exists.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-02 22:27:02'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Normally I'd complain about such a huge image, but can you make it bigger?
    Oh that is lovely.
  created: '2006-03-02 23:31:06'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Whoa. This almost gots some Goudy Sans in it. Bizarre.
  created: '2006-03-03 00:25:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Heh heh, check out them traps.\r\nWhat point sizes are those?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "<em>What point sizes are those?</em>\r\n\r\nThe cap height in the image
      of the roman caps is 1 2/3\" and the distance baseline to baseline is 2 1/3\".
      In the italics, the cap height (as reproduced) is .9\" (23.5 mm)."
    created: '2006-03-03 02:22:13'
  created: '2006-03-03 01:37:45'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "thanks for posting these charles. made my day.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-03 10:25:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Those must be enlargements then, no?\r\nAny idea what the original point
    sizes were?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-03 15:22:29'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "<em>Those must be enlargements then, no?\r\nAny idea what the original point
    sizes were?</em>\r\n\r\nI do not have the Luidl text on hand. I made same size
    (100%) B&W line art scans at 600-dpi. The posted images are at 300 dpi, RGB. If
    you download an image and open it in PhotoShop it will appear at the same size
    as the original scan and you can make your best estimate of size from that. I
    retrieved the article from the Cooper-Hewitt Library about 6 years ago and cannot
    recall if the captions to the images in the article provided a point size. "
  created: '2006-03-03 22:38:42'
- author:
    name: dewitt
  body: "For Nick\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/moglog2.jpg]\r\n\r\nFrom:
    http://www.action-tv.org.uk/mogul/mogul/mog_series.htm"
  created: '2006-03-04 05:30:12'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Charles, let me add passionate thanks for these marvellous illustrations,
    which I don't remember seeing before. Exactly what do they represent? Are they
    some kind of drawing or trial cut? What is fascinating and instructive is to see
    how very different they are from the finished font. The ink traps are completely
    irrelevant, of course, as they chose not to use any in the final font. (As far
    as I can tell, there are no traps even in the smallest sizes which are what -
    12 pt? 10 pt?) It is the radical changes in the letterforms that I find so impressive.
    How he started from here and got to there. Type being so collaborative, we must
    really wonder quite who is the auteur here? We naturally wish to think of Renner
    as sole auteur, sole arbiter. But what if this - what you have shown - was his
    final creative word? What if the rest, everything that makes the typeface the
    great totality we know today - came from the foundry staff? \r\n\r\nDo we have
    any information on this? Are there any survivors from the process? Did anyone
    keep diaries? Are there any corporate records? (There must be some kind of documentation
    - sie waren Deutsch!) I find the contrast between the design and the pre-design
    most fascinating to contemplate - very moving. There must have been a huge amount
    of effort and thought, and perhaps much heartbreak, as the letters were transformed
    from here to there. Where on earth do we find, today, anyone taking lettermaking
    so seriously? It is all very inspiring, what you have presented.\r\n\r\nIt is
    utterly shocking to me that Chris Burke did not address these issues at all in
    his book on Renner - as far as I can remember. That is the dullest book I have
    ever read, though one is grateful for it even so - -  How it would have been <em>enlivened</em>
    if he had thought to penetrate the questions these illustrations raise. He must
    have been aware of this material, no? To write 200 pages about Renner and not
    have a single interesting thing to say about him - - when you could be discussing
    <em>this</em>.\r\n\r\nI look at what you have sent and I say to myself 'and <em>you</em>
    aspire to present a version of this typeface to the public? YOU? What makes you
    think you have a tenth of the requisite expertise?' \r\n\r\nI'm blown away, falling
    not perhaps quite upwards, as H\xF6lderlin says, but sideways to and fro. "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "<em>Exactly what do they represent? Are they some kind of drawing or trial
      cut? What is fascinating and instructive is to see how very different they are
      from the finished font.</em>\r\nSorry to have been away so long, but I had to
      run down a copy of the 1978 Munich Typographic Society publication on Paul Renner\u2014found
      a mint edition from a bookseller in Stockholm for less than $35 including shipping.
      The illustrations in the book are all of drawings done by Renner. So, none of
      the images I posted were of type. The drawings were for alternate forms and
      weights for Futura Schlagzeile [Headline] (Bauer, 1932). It appears to me that
      ideas Renner tried out circa 1932 reemerged 20 years later in the less curvilinear
      Steile [upright] Futura. One other thing to consider is that these drawings
      appear to have been done after Bauer engineered Futura oblique. The second and
      third images posted are referred to as \u201CKursiv.\u201D Whether that was
      Renner's term or one applied by those who cataloged his drawings is not clear.
      There is of course a distinction between cursive, italic, and oblique scripts.
      Unfortunately, the German word \u201Ckursive\u201D makes it difficult to discern
      Renner\u2019s position relative to italic v. oblique. In other words, was this
      a competitor to Futura oblique or an italic to accompany the headline type then
      under development. What is clear is that by 1932 he had dropped his insistence
      that artifacts of the hand had no place in the creation of modern typefaces. "
    created: '2006-03-21 13:56:10'
  created: '2006-03-04 19:23:54'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Guys, Charles Leonard has just posted a page of Renner's drawings which says
    more about the process by which a great type is made than any other piece of historical
    material I have ever seen.\r\n\r\nHow can you look at this unbelievable artefact
    that history has most unexpectedly vouchsafed us, and remain silent? \r\n\r\nWe
    have here the most unexpected window into the type-creation process we are ever
    likely to be able to look through. Doesn't that mean anything to you?\r\n\r\nHave
    any of you any sense of the huge gulf that separates Renner's drawings from the
    finished type? Can you imagine the thousands of steps, the endless hours of thought,
    the anxious hours of discussion that must have transpired before this gap was
    filled? \r\n\r\nWhat Charles posted is by far the most informative thing I have
    ever seen about Renner or any other type designer period. And not to rake up a
    pointless issue, but ... what does it say about a writer who must have encountered
    this material (if he didn't, he had no business writing the book at all), and
    who doesn't even mention it in a book that is so unremittingly and bafflingly
    lifeless? This was his moment to turn on the juice to say something that was actually
    informative, actually engaging. But no, he was probably more worried about how
    <em>his</em> type would look on the pages. Has anyone considered how very oddly
    self-serving it is to write a tribute to a great type designer and not use one
    of that type designer's types to set it in? No, instead, one uses a completely
    unrelated type of one's own. Is one writing a tribute to Renner, or an advertisement
    for one's type? \r\n\r\nIn my opinion Charles's image is the most important thing
    ever to be posted on Typophile or any other type blog or listserve.\r\n\r\nI was
    thinking of posting some images to illustrate my uncertainties about fitting the
    font (I think it is too loose in metal but I have probably made it too tight in
    my present version) and the question of cap height, but I have been so blown away
    by this image that I think my past meanderings in trying to come to grips with
    Steile Futura are simply irrelevant. \r\n\r\nHere are some of the basic questions
    that need to be answered:\r\n\r\nWhat is the date of these drawings?\r\n\r\nAre
    there other drawings, drawings from later stages, even from earlier stages?\r\n\r\nWho
    is responsible for the final design? Did Renner effect the transformation between
    sketch and finished type himself, without outside intervention from the foundry?
    That seems unlikely, but it is possible. How can we learn more about this? What
    material is known to exist? Is there extant correspondence? Has any type historian
    read it? Is that type historian fluent in German or .... ?\r\n\r\nWhat happens
    when we try to analyze what we have on hand - the sketch and the finished type?
    Can we see a logical path of development? Can we see some inevitable process taking
    place? Is there a demonstrable logic in the transition? Do we have a good idea
    of why the changes were made? If we do, we may ask ourselves if they are self-evident?
    Can we assume that Renner too knew they were self-evident? If that was the case,
    why didn't he just design the face that way from the start? Do we know anything
    of Renner's intentions with regard to these sketches? Did he mean them to survive?
    Was this a case analogous to the Bruckner symphony, where Bruckner's editors insisted
    on hundreds of changes and simplifications which Bruckner in unutterable despair
    gave in to, all the while saving a manuscript of the original, marked 'for posterity'
    ? Did Renner intend this sketch to show posterity what he would have done if only
    he had been allowed? Or was this sketch an unimportant doodle to him, something
    unwittingly preserved by the foundry? Was the sketch intended to represent foundational
    characters, or did someone ask for possible alternates and did Renner then provide
    this?\r\n\r\nI have a postulate which could perhaps be tested. That Renner presented
    this sketch to the foundry as something he thought they could and should do. The
    foundry then came back to him and said, we can't do this, this and that, for this,
    this and that technical reasons. It is not possible in metal type. Instead, we
    suggest that you do this, this and that instead, to comply with our technical
    limitations. (They have aesthetic objections too, perhaps, but of course they
    don't mention them to Renner, as Bill was not working for Bauer at the time .
    . . .)\r\n\r\nIs it possible that that is what happened? Can we illustrate it
    based on the material we have here? For instance, by making a little mini font
    of the sketches and seeing how they fit together, and respecting metal limitations?
    Or just by making duplicates of the characters, and pasting them into words, as
    used to be done routinely to 'proof' type sketches before font software was invented?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "Bill -- I will have to relocate the volume of <em> Eine Jahresgabe Der
      Typographischen Gesellschaft M\xFCnchen</em> to see what attributions are available
      from the captions to the illustrations I posted. The articles in the yearbook
      deal primarily with remembrances of Renner and Renner's years in Munich as head
      of the Meisterschule f\xFCr Deutschelands Buchdrucker\u2013the author and editor,
      Phillipp Luidl, has served as director of the Akademie f\xFCr das Grafische
      Gerwerbe of Munich, which is the post-war sucessor to the school that Renner
      headed from 1926 \u2013 1933. As such, I suspect that he had access to records
      and files known to few others."
    created: '2006-03-10 03:06:51'
  created: '2006-03-05 10:14:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bill,\r\nI can understand and appreciate everything in your last post.  I
    agree that the material posted by Charles is really exciting and far more worthy
    of discussion than most anything I have seen to date.  \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-05 17:34:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "DeWitt, thanks for confirming my memory!\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nChris Burke's
    \"Renner\" is one of my favourite books on typography. I particularly like its
    scope -- the way Burke relates so many aspects of Renner's life and times to his
    type designs, and its depth -- discussing issues like National Socialism and blackletter,
    and Renner's take on modernism. It is also a nicely designed book with many illustrations
    and specimens, superb production values, set in Burke's own Celeste and Celeste
    Footnote, with thorough index, footnotes, etc.\r\n\r\nI contacted Mr Burke on
    a visit to the UK a few years ago, and he was gracious enough to have lunch with
    me and show me round the typography department at Reading University. "
  created: '2006-03-05 17:57:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Nick, to understand what a biogaphy of a person living through the Weimar,
    Nazi, and post-Nazi eras could and should be like, why not take a look at Gitta
    Sereny's 'Albert Speer: His Struggle With Truth' a book which quite incidentally
    also makes a couple of instructive though subtle typesetting points. Sereny points
    the way to anyone who aspires to biography of anyone in that period and will give
    you an idea of the kind of exciting reading experience that you have a right to
    expect to occur when a biogapher is really knowledgeable about and really engaged
    with her subject. Speaking, off-topic, of subtle typographical points, Nick, can
    you tell us why Celeste footnote is a bad example of optically corrected design?
    (I am assuming that you have outgrown your Richler period, and I have concluded
    that this is the only interesting question CB's book raises.) Chris, I don't need
    to write a biography of Renner - Charles Leonard has already said what most needs
    to be said, most elegantly, most economically, merely by posting a one-page scan.\r\n\r\nMay
    I say that I am extremely bored by the evidence here of intemperate worship at
    the altar of a minor and most unlikely god-figure called Chris Burke? The depth
    of high-falutin moral outrage on display here is astounding. Did you guys spend
    so much energy when the Taliban destroyed the Buddhas in Afghanistan? When the
    remaining ATF material was dispersed? When the Imprimerie Nationale was endangered
    - still a current concern? \r\n\r\nSo I ask: what do you want to do with your
    time: blather, or try to think through the issues that have been presented here,
    which, entirely incidentally, and quite unimportantly, do not reflect well on
    the Apostle of Reading. Life is very short. I would rather talk about something
    important. And read good books."
  created: '2006-03-05 20:54:02'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "I am a bit amused about the question, if Renner or the foundry is to be considered
    the \"author\". (I exaggerate a bit, but this seems the essence of your post.)\r\n\r\nThere
    has always been the conflict between type designer and foundry. A good foundry,
    past and present, deals critically with the type designer's work. Sometimes the
    type designer worries about this, sometimes the typeface profits from the foundries
    expertise -- sometimes both at the same time. :) I would be irritated if a typeface
    would NOT develop inbetween drawing and release! So I really don't understand
    the author question.\r\n\r\nAt the time when Renner made the Futura, he obviously
    still was an amateur in type design, being a painter, then typographer first of
    all. Much of the refinement -- say, thinning round elements as they approach stems
    -- seems to come from the foundry.\r\nBut Renner learned a lot from working with
    Bauer, and drawings for his later typefaces show this. (And at a time he could
    complain that a foundry he worked with lacked the expertise he had experienced
    with Bauer.) My favorites are his later roman typefaces, by the way.\r\n\r\nPersonal
    comment:\r\nOn the one hand, Renner is known for Futura most of all. (1) Futura
    indeed seems to own much to Bauer. Then, it seems still unsolved whether the Futura
    uppercase were by Renner or an architect; I am not up to date and don't know if
    this is settled now. (2) Futura was not the \"new\" thing as that it was advertised.
    Typefaces of this kind were on the marked since 1920, like a \"Grotesk\" by Wagner
    & Schmidt in Leipzig, in 1931 issued as \"Rund-Grotesk\" by C.E. Weber. Unless
    you know all the internals of foundries -- which seems hard to get hold of --
    you cannot really say \"which came first\". Also, around this time, various design
    schools taught lettering in the constructive style. This kind of typefaces was
    \"in the air\".\r\n(If Futura is interesting, then not for the \"innovation\"
    as which it was sold (I consider this to be mere marketing, one shouldn't mistake
    marketing for historical fact), but for the still very \"Germanic\" remains in
    the first versions, like the long-s plus ligatures in this \"moderne schrift\".)\r\nOn
    the other hand, Renner proved to have become a master only with his later type
    designs -- which remain unknown. Steile Futura may be one of them; if someone
    showed you \"Topic\", would you have thought of Renner? Not to speak of the much
    better roman typefaces which mostly remained in the drawer.\r\nThere is nothing
    more ironic than history.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "<em>On the one hand, Renner is known for Futura most of all. (1) Futura
      indeed seems to own much to Bauer. Then, it seems still unsolved whether the
      Futura uppercase were by Renner or an architect; I am not up to date and don\u2019t
      know if this is settled now.</em>\r\n\r\nNot to toot my own horn too much\u2013but
      a bit\u2013I did address the Ferdinand Kramer v. Paul Renner question in my
      thesis \"Paul Renner and Futura: The Effects of Culture, Technology, and Social
      Continuity On the Design of Type for Printing\" available as a PDF at\r\nhttp://etd.gsu.edu/theses/available/etd-07222005-152053/.
      Due the similarity of dimensional increments between drawings\u2013and reproductions
      of drawings\u2013known to be by Renner and the drawings tentatively attributed
      to Kramer by Hans Peter Willberg, I came to the conclusion that the drawings
      were more probably by Renner, although it is clearly possible that Kramer collaborated
      with Renner on the designs for the Frankfurt public signage project.\r\n\r\nRenner's
      own extensive experience as a book designer from 1907 on suggests that while
      he was not personally adept at the proportional subtleties seen in the font
      released by Bauer in 1927, he was attuned to them. A myth persists that Renner
      wasn\u2019t much of a lettering artist prior to his involvement with Bauer in
      the production of Futura. However, as a book designer he was responsible for
      the design and production of as many at 250 volumes per year between 1910 and
      the beginning of World War I. Many of these books sport title pages that are
      photo engravings of lettering executed by Renner. Further, it is helpful to
      remember that it was Renner that Fritz Wichert, director of the Frankfurter
      Kunstschule recruited in 1925 to rejuvenate that school\u2019s program of instruction
      in lettering and typography.\r\n"
    created: '2006-03-10 03:25:44'
  created: '2006-03-05 22:39:22'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">if someone showed you \u201CTopic\u201D, would you have thought of Renner?
    \r\n\r\nI can easily answer that honestly with a no. It is outside all norms and
    precedent. In type, that is. But not in German culture of the 1950s. Take for
    example Mann's Krull, a contemporaneous work, which is so totally unexpected from
    just that hand. No doubt there are many much better comparative examples in the
    painting and literature of that period. That raises again the question of period.
    Are we to regard Steile as decisively a post-war work? Or does it represent a
    hidden spring running through the 1930s and 40s which never was allowed to run
    quite dry, thanks to the protective influence exercised by Speer, who was always
    trying to live up to Tessenow's expectations?\r\n\r\n>Not to speak of the much
    better roman typefaces which mostly remained in the drawer.\r\n\r\nExactly. The
    one commissioned by Speer should have been digitised and used to set the Renner
    book. Why doesn't anyone do anything with it, or at least explore its ideas? Not
    to mention its particular interest in one of the most daunting tasks in roman
    typeface design, aesthetically pleasing condensation which is, or should be, very
    much a green issue. Karsten, has anyone seriously looked into the possibility
    of digitising these typefaces? Like ... have you thought of doing anything with
    them? ? (Incidentally, what was Renner's opinion of Walbaum and Walbaum derivatives?)
    \r\n\r\n>There is nothing more ironic than history.\r\n\r\nYes ... to those lucky
    enough to possess both an irony gene and a history gene. But there are some who
    don't. One would like to know what Heidegger would have made of Steile Futura.
    Would he have seen in it some incarnation of the technological era he was describing?
    That is kind of what Dwiggins, in his skillful PR for Electra, claimed for that
    face, but it can't really be taken seriously as the typeface remains too influenced
    by the late 18th century transitionals so admired by Updike, whose influence on
    Dwiggins cannot be overestimated. Renner's Steile by contrast really does mark
    a decisive break with the past. One can imagine, going far out on a limb, that
    Walter Benjamin would have found Steile authentic, Electra not. "
  created: '2006-03-06 00:34:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I am assuming that you have outgrown your Richler period,</em>\r\n\r\nI've
    moved on. OpenType has opened up new areas of interest. I wouldn't say that my
    Richler typeface is immature, as you imply.  \r\n\r\nI wonder what kind of work
    you do. I assume you are involved in font production, rather than design, as your
    posts often play up the importance of foundry workers in the process of typeface
    creation."
  created: '2006-03-06 00:50:50'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Oh come on Nick, put your ear to the ground if you don''t know who I am.
    Not that it matters what any of us on Typophile ''does''. This is about Steile
    Futura, not about you or me. '
  created: '2006-03-06 20:21:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I Googled you, didn't find anything.\r\nYou're dissing my work (and
    Burke's) from behind a shield of anonymity, not revealing what kind of work you
    do, in your Typophile profile. Show some character, man."
  created: '2006-03-06 20:29:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The ink traps are completely irrelevant, of course.\r\n\r\nOf course. That
    must have been a moron moment on their part, eh?\r\nOh, and you don't see the
    traps in any of the printing? Hmmm, I wonder why.\r\n\r\nThat said, besides your
    historic mental block concerning trapping,\r\nthe excitement you're showing here
    and the questions you're asking\r\nare definitely needed. (And I won't bother
    to ask you to treat people\r\nmore fairly and with an open mind.)\r\n\r\nAnother
    quick thing: I like Richler.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-07 02:03:22'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Nick, rather  than googling, why don't you call Matthew Carter, Sumner Stone,
    Frank Blokland, Robert Slimbach, Hermann Zapf, etc. and find out who I am and
    'what I do.'\r\n\r\nNow could we get back on-Topic, please?\r\n\r\nHere's how
    my involvement started. \r\n\r\nBack in 1994 when Jeff Level and I were forming
    Adagio Type (Jeff, as you will recall, is the guy who Robert Norton in 'Types
    Best Remembered/Best Forgotten' said had the best eye for type in the industry),
    we were very interested in Topic. Jeff (who gave Robert Slimbach his first job
    when he was the director of the type department at Autologic) was then working
    for Precision Type, and used the Font Company version for an order form that was
    quite a brilliant piece of design. But the spacing on the FC version (which is
    identical to the one URW sells today) was so bad that he had to hand kern each
    single word. So one of the many ideas we had was to revise Topic, which we thought
    only needed a quick fix.\r\n\r\nIt needed (1) a complete refitting and (2) in
    Jeff's perhaps overly-Aldine-influenced opinion, less tall caps. \r\n\r\nThis
    was a project that over 12 years I kept on returning to. The first obstacle was
    fixing the digitisation, which was really rough. That took some time. The second
    problem was redesigning all the non-basic-set characters, like the ligs, quotes,
    and all the symbols, because FC had used generic, Helvetica-like characters, not
    the real thing. But getting into Renner's head is not a part-time job.\r\n\r\nThis
    was something I did bit by bit, between other projects, whenever there was time,
    never giving it a solid slot of a few months to itself.\r\n\r\nSeveral years ago,
    Phan Nguyen became interested in the project, and gave me his original brochures
    and other artwork, because he was convinced that there were fundamental flaws
    in the FC design (based on a VGC photo master) that I was not considering. I of
    course took that seriously, but I still thought the VGC master was good enough.\r\n\r\nNow
    I look at where I am now and I am seeing some painful things.\r\n\r\n1. I overcorrected
    on the fitting, which makes the font I have unusable at under 50 points or so.\r\n\r\n2.
    Phan was right. There are a lot of problems in the artwork I was following. You
    see many weight problems amongst the individual characters. You see many problems
    when you compare it closely to the metal, which I have only recently begun seriously
    to do, and you also, at last, begin to see some faults in the metal that you would
    like to fix.\r\n\r\nOne problem I have going forward is that I don't have complete
    character sets in sizes above 24 points or so. It would be nice to have a complete
    set in the largest size - was it 80? But there are so many other problems. You
    can see why I am reluctant to take this further on.\r\n\r\nHere's a sample showing
    FC/URW's data in red, and mine, based on Renner, in blue, at 780 points:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/e.jpg]"
  created: '2006-03-07 03:22:58'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "Great stuff, Bill. I am not an expert in this arena, but it looks like the
    FC/URW cuts some corners, shows more evidence of digital/Bezier?\r\n\r\nDo your
    other glyphs have the rounded/soft corners? Is this because yours is based on
    a master of a different size?"
  created: '2006-03-07 06:52:18'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">it looks like the FC/URW cuts some corners, shows more evidence of digital/Bezier?\r\n\r\nMy
    instinct is to say the simplification must have occurred in the VGC photo conversion.
    My reasoning is that the FC work was done in Ikarus and the conversion to PS does
    not seem to me to have been radically simplified. But anything is possible.\r\n\r\nI
    haven't done enough analysis of the size variations to come to any definite conclusions.
    I was hoping to avoid having to round off the corners because I seem to have spent
    my entire adult life rounding off corners in a hundred different typefaces, and
    it seems like such a waste of time in the greater scheme of things. Yet when it
    really comes down to it, I don't like supersharp corners in this typeface, I think
    it causes too much exaggeration. What do you think? I would really love to hear
    some persuasive arguments in favour of sharp corners. I've done my time on round
    corners.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-07 07:31:13'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "A bit belated -- I am not sure if I want to know what Heidegger or Benjamin
    had to say about a particular typeface. You could ask the shop assistant next
    door as well. Never inquire philosophers about arts.\r\n\r\n<cite>has anyone seriously
    looked into the possibility of digitising these typefaces?</cite>\r\n\r\nIt would
    be nice to have a book which presents them. To enjoy looking at them, and to study
    how Renner approached certain design problems. (Like the great Schneidler book
    which is itself an amazing object.) But to revive them? They are period pieces.
    Right now I have much more sympathy for typefaces like Freight; it combines type
    history without being just a revival of anything particular, that is, it does
    not imitate individual letterforms, but addresses specific problems in a way which
    tells me that its designer knows something about type history.\r\n\r\n<cite>but
    it looks like the FC/URW cuts some corners, shows more evidence of digital/Bezier?</cite>\r\n\r\nSoftening
    corners is a bezier characteristic. But FC/URW hints to Ikarus which uses circle-segments
    for curve description -- which have their own characteristics. :)\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-03-07 07:44:32'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: sorry, double posted.
  created: '2006-03-07 09:59:59'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "It's getting interesting again. \r\nDid somebody already have the chance
    to compare the digitizings on the market, esp. URWs vs. Berthold?"
  created: '2006-03-07 10:00:21'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Bill as you continue this project do you think you will have text and display
    versions? Sorry if you mentioned this elsewhere, but I didn't read this. I really
    do prefer the rounded details/corners for smaller type, but when it comes to display
    I like to have a choice. I think the sharp corners often look wrong in text fonts.
    The corners disappear too soon. \r\n\r\nFirst time I saw this typeface it did
    remind me of Renner, but only because I was already familiar with Futura Display.
    Maybe another thread could discuss it. "
  created: '2006-03-07 17:04:22'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: ">I think the sharp corners often look wrong in text fonts. The corners disappear
    too soon.\r\n\r\nThat's an interesting observation and I support it, but obsessing
    with the corners does seem to triple your development time. It also leads you
    into all kinds of dicey digitisation choices. It is also interesting and unconventional
    that you want a choice with display. Theoretically, you will be scanning text
    too quickly to notice if there are sharp corners or not (unless you are looking
    at it with a type designer's eye) while in display you are much more apt to notice
    this kind of feature. \r\n\r\nWhether it's text or display, though, a sharp corner
    results in all kinds of flaring effects (not on the serifs obviously, but all
    kinds of other terminal points) that may seem garish and I think that is a particular
    problem with Steile.\r\n\r\nThere have always been programs that would round corners,
    so theoretically you could design with sharp corners to save time, and then round
    off automatically later, but this has never appealed to me because you are going
    to have to look at each character anyway to make sure the effect worked the way
    you wanted it to.\r\n\r\nYes, I would want an optical axis, even if it was pretty
    simple. (Ideally, all single master fonts would be MMs with a single spacing axis,
    which would be better than tracking, because you probably want to space out rounds
    proportionately more than you space out straights as you go down in point size.)
    There are some great tools in Robofog which can theoretically greatly simplify
    this kind of development, but I have yet to get them to work. However, the tools
    are constantly evolving and sooner or later they will. \r\n\r\n>as you continue
    this project\r\n\r\nAt the rate I am presently going, I would expect someone else
    to come out with 20 versions first. There is so much to think about. I still haven't
    really figured out where Steile and Tasse diverge, and why. A lot of intelligent
    thought went into that project. And there is always the hope that one day a Tasse
    italic based on Steile will appear. It is a little difficult to compare Steile
    and Tasse because there is not an exact weight/width match. However, it should
    be reasonably easy to interpolate one. What really happens with Tasse? What is
    changed, and  why? One reason I am reluctant to put too much focus on Steile is
    that I keep on hoping that Font Bureau will ultimately release a Tasse italic.
    I think I remember David Berlow expressing the same wish, and saying it was up
    to the designer, who I guess is thinking things over. Somebody should contact
    him and see what is going on. \r\n\r\nIn the meantime, it would be interesting
    to hear more comparing Steile to Tasse and comparing Berthold Steile (bold and
    bold italic only) to FC/URW and to the originals. I seem only to have the low-res
    version of Berthold Steile, which is not much use for comparisons at the level
    we are talking about here. "
  created: '2006-03-07 18:46:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you will be scanning text too quickly to\r\n> notice if there are sharp
    corners or not\r\n\r\nAh, but the relevance of any real text face is always in
    large\r\npart deeper than conscious \"noticing\" anyway. The difference\r\nin
    \"mood\" conveyed by the effect of sharp or round corners on\r\nthe overall texture
    of a setting is fully half the story (the other\r\nhalf being pure readability).\r\n\r\n>
    better than tracking, because you probably want to space\r\n> out rounds proportionately
    more than you space out straights\r\n\r\nNot to mention the proper handling of
    \"boundary\r\nconditions\" such as the right side of the \"r\", etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-07 19:13:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I would really love to hear some persuasive arguments in favour of sharp
    corners.</em>\r\n\r\nAt text size sharp corners, as in your big e post, are eroded
    by the process of putting ink on paper.\r\n\r\nHowever, one's conception of the
    typeface is formed as much by inspection of display-size specimens as by reading
    text. \r\n\r\nI would say that unless the sharpness is a broad theme of the face,
    rather than something which is occasionally an issue for terminal treatment, it's
    better to take a little off the arris.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nThe beautiful finish
    of Renner's drawings creates a lot of problems for typographic interpretation.
    A similar situation occurs with Oswald Cooper's 1930 sans serif drawings for the
    \"American Alphabets\" book, subsequently digitized as Highlander etc. Adrian
    Frutiger had a different approach, I believe, cutting shapes out of paper.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-07 22:22:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> one\u2019s conception of the typeface is formed as much by\r\n> inspection
    of display-size specimens as by reading text\r\n\r\n1) Not when the font is never
    seen set large.\r\n2) Not when a layman doesn't know it's the same font (and he
    doesn't).\r\n3) Deliberation and immersion are different animals.\r\nScale changes
    everything when it crosses a threshold.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-07 23:28:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Of course, Hrant.\r\nThe \"one\" I was referring to is me/us, the typophile."
  created: '2006-03-07 23:52:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "While we should be talking about not us.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-07 23:59:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "But someone has to licence and specify the typeface in the first place, and
    that one will be aware of it in a deliberative manner. \r\nSo paradoxically, a
    face designed for immersive reading still has to look good at display size.\r\nWith
    the best of intentions, it's difficult for typographers to assess a typeface strictly
    on immersive grounds. This is the general problem all producers face, vis-a-vis
    users, in that they are overly familiar with the product, and can't perceive it
    as the user does.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 00:21:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> someone has to licence and specify the typeface in the first place\r\n\r\nYes,
    but the good ones do so based on the needs of their users.\r\n\r\n> a face designed
    for immersive reading still has to look good at display size.\r\n\r\nOnly to please
    graphic designers who don't know any better.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s difficult for
    typographers to assess a typeface strictly on immersive grounds\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 00:32:26'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "... it\u2019s difficult for typographers to assess a typeface strictly on
    immersive grounds\r\n\r\nYes. ...\r\n\r\nAnd that's why everyone is afraid to
    do a great small text face, with thousands of kinks, gouges, and traps ... something
    designed not to look good to a graphic designer, but to use density to convey
    letter shapes to readers in the most effective way possible. Because it's more
    than just gouges, traps, etc. Once you really start looking at what's happening
    in small text, and once you start letting go of making your letters look beautiful,
    you can really confront what it takes to get things to work at six or seven points.
    I'm not saying that a small text font has to be ugly when examined at 14 points,
    but I am saying it is the easiest way to design it, if you can be freed from that
    pretty-at-14 requirement. That said, Sumner Stone's new 5 point size of Cycles
    manages to be both functional and not ugly. But that's Sumner. \r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 02:55:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What's funny Bill is that one of the very few people who has really\r\ntried
    to make an unapologetic small text face is... Chris Burke!  :-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/fontfont/parable/\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019m not saying that a small text font has to be ugly when examined at 14
    points\r\n\r\nI am.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 03:20:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>everyone is afraid to do a great small text face</em>\r\n\r\nSmall text
    faces are not something there's any demand for, except maybe for agate.\r\nDigital
    work flow, high resolution printing, and being able to \"see\" small text on a
    monitor, rather than have to inspect a galley -- these may explain the perception
    that special faces aren't required for 5 or 6 pt. type. People will use Helvetica
    45 on coated stock; tends to weed out the over-40s as readers, though.\r\n\r\nI've
    done some news text faces, Worldwide and Brown, for use around 8 pt size, with
    kinks, gouges and traps, that look pretty horsey (not necessarily ugly?) at 14
    pt. I could probably have made them look nicer, but it would have been a lot of
    unnecessary work, as there are also display versions. \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ApAp.jpg]"
  created: '2006-03-08 04:46:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Small text faces are not something there\u2019s any demand for\r\n\r\nBut
    by the same logic one wouldn't design fonts at all!  :-/\r\n\r\nA central factor
    in terms of what most type designers actually\r\nspend time making seems to be
    what each of us enjoys making.\r\nSome of us enjoy lo-fi design, and will explore
    it no matter how\r\nfeeble the demand is.\r\n\r\nThe grand master of lo-fi type
    is Ladislas Mandel.\r\nHis individual letterform outlines contain more\r\nthought
    than some entire fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 05:11:51'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: It would be so great to have a thread where small type could be discussed,
    and shown.
  created: '2006-03-08 07:40:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Start the thread.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-08 13:50:43'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I don't have the energy. In the meantime I have been looking at Charles Leonard's
    thesis, which is linked to in another Typophile thread, http://www.typophile.com/node/18165,
    and thinking about the dichotomy between what Renner wants to do in his drawings
    and what he has to do in the finished type. His ideas are always consistently
    more radical than 'type' will accept. I am surprised that Hrant and some others
    have not had more to say about this. We tend to be so prissy and self-censoring
    in type -- it is a necessity, I suppose, but as a mindset it impedes creativity.
    Renner was fortunate to be able to work in a situation where he could do what
    he wanted and leave the censoring to others. However, either way, nothing radical
    ever gets put into widespread use. \r\n\r\nKarsten thinks philosophers shouldn't
    be connected to art or craft but I think this is rather limiting. Nietzsche spends
    his entire career obsessed with Wagner, and Heidegger spends most of his obsessed
    with Nietzsche, and large schools of their successors spend their entire careers
    obsessed with both. Walter Benjamin gives us the modern keys to looking at photography,
    reproduced art, mechanisation, appropriation and authenticity, all issues that
    are important to type. As regards appropriation, Edit DeAk has pointed out in
    an I think unpublished essay that current day appropriation can be compared to
    the book - you may own the book, but not what's in it (Well, can't you own your
    view of it?), and compares image appropriation to reading - if I read her correctly.
    You get at least some hints of these connexions in Charles's thesis and I wonder
    if they couldn't be profitably explored further? What is more hot button for type
    than authenticity, reproducibility, mechanisation, appropriation? A small thing
    I am surprised at in the Leonard thesis is the lack of attention given to Erbar,
    but I haven't yet read all of it.\r\n\r\nIn the meantime I am wondering if any
    of the ideas (are they ideas? -- or are they just glyphs?) in Renner's Steile
    sketches couldn't be incorporated into a new version. 'Version' is an underexplored
    concept, isn't it now? Now that is really interesting."
  created: '2006-03-08 17:33:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If no one ever sees my (or anyone's) type designs, do they really exist?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-08 18:24:09'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "That isn't a Berkeleyan question because at the very least, someone did see
    it: you. Even if nobody else ever sees it, your experience of having seen it cannot
    be separated from your interactions with others and the influence you have on
    others. So my very simple minded vote is, it exists. \r\n\r\nIn the case of Renner's
    Futura variants, which were supposed to be the main event, we have the case where
    a few see them and most do not. In the case of the Steile sketches, we have something
    that was never made into type, and that only a very few have seen.\r\n\r\nBut
    back to the point: it is now possible for a machine to create a hitherto unseen
    typeface. So, if nobody actually looks at the output, does it exist?  "
  created: '2006-03-08 21:15:19'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Karsten thinks philosophers shouldn\u2019t be connected to art or craft
    but I think this is rather limiting.</cite>\r\n\r\nOh, I just said that you better
    not ask a philosopher about the design of a *particular* typeface. A philosopher
    is not a designer, and -- in most cases -- may not see more than other non-designers.
    There are exceptions of course, I could easily add Adorno to your list. However,
    I am not sure if what they wrote would help a designer answering particular design
    questions with comments like: \"Better if you make this curve a bit smoother --
    see the effect?\" They deal with art in a very general way (music-an-sich, photography-an-sich).
    What Benjamin says about reproduction does not necessarily have consequences on
    how photographs look like.\r\nPhilosophic minds like Danto or Luhmann (German
    sociologist, system theory) tell you a lot about everything related to art. (There
    are such nice ideas like: If you start with a work of art, you got all possibilities
    to make whatever decision, but as you go on designing, with every decision of
    yours the possibilities get less and less, and you are more and more forced to
    subordinate to your artwork's structure. Not sure if this is Adorno or Luhmann
    who also had Spencer-Brown's <cite>Laws of Form</cite> in mind who in turn seems
    much \"inspired\" by Peirce's earlier \"entitativy graphs\".) But they don't really
    tell you what makes art art. And if you look for advice on making art, the cheapest
    \"how-to\" book is the better choice.\r\nI like both realms, and they depend on
    each other and influence each other. In a very remote way.\r\n\r\n<cite>... lack
    of attention given to Erbar, ...</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat are you appealing to? That
    Erbar (but other typefaces too) changed over time, and some letters were modified
    to look more like Futura?  ;-)"
  created: '2006-03-08 22:38:17'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "<strong>Call:</strong> I\u2019m not saying that a small text font has to
    be ugly when examined at 14 points\r\n\r\n<strong>Response:</strong> I am.\r\n\r\n\r\nA
    better or more nuanced way to think of this, or think this through might be to
    consider that what works optical-grammatically at 14 points might not work at
    all optical-grammatically at 7 points. \r\n\r\nAt 14 point what works well optical-grammatically
    at 7 might appear optical-grammatically dysfunctional (= ugly?). This has to be
    purely a function of the ratio of receptor (rod / cone) density relative to proximal
    stimulus extent, and the visual spatial frequency band used in form resolution
    while reading versus inspecting.\r\n\r\nOn the gestural-atmospheric (mood) axis
    the 'mood signature' of a block of 7 point type in a given font will be totally
    incompatable with the 'mood signature'(ugly?) of the same type with all the parameters
    exactly proportionately scaled, for the same receptor density / frequency band
    reasons.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-03-08 22:48:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "A typeface is never really seen.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> I am surprised that Hrant
    and some others\r\n> have not had more to say about this. \r\n\r\nWell, there's
    so much to say about so many other things; and so\r\nlittle time. That said, I
    admit to being much more interested in\r\nRenner as a result of this thread. Thanks
    guys.\r\n\r\n> you better not ask a philosopher about the design of a *particular*
    typeface.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, in some cases, you better not ask\r\nanother
    <cite>type designer</cite> about a particular typeface!  :-/\r\n\r\n> what works
    optical-grammatically at 14 points might not\r\n> work at all optical-grammatically
    at 7 points.\r\n\r\nOr a little bit more firmly:\r\nSome things that work at 7
    <strong>will</strong> look ugly at 14.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 23:33:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A typeface is never really seen.\r\n\r\nFurthermore:\r\nAny use of a typeface
    is a parody of it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 23:37:05'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Off-topic: Joshua Darden''s Freight Micro was intended for small texts. I
    remember him showing it to me in Prague (ATypI 2004) and saying that I would use
    it for titles. Later W magazine apparently like it so much Joshua created a version
    of it specifically for their headlines. Type Designers cannot control what typographic
    (graphic) designers see as beautiful and/or appropriate. They can only create
    what they think is going to work or get a response of some sort from the world
    based on current trends or what is in their hearts. '
  created: '2006-03-09 00:08:26'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "... A typeface is never really seen.\r\n\r\nFurthermore:\r\nAny use of a
    typeface is a parody of it. ...\r\n\r\nThose are good observations, but on an
    entirely simple level Chris's post resonates with me since I must be a good candidate
    for king of the unreleased typefaces. Some of them might be worthwhile, but believe
    me a lot of them are not, but that doesn't mean I didn't learn a lot from them.
    \r\n"
  created: '2006-03-09 01:00:56'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>-- you better not ask a philosopher about the design of a *particular*
    typeface.</cite>\r\n<cite>-- On the other hand, in some cases, you better not
    ask another type designer about a particular typeface! :-/</cite>\r\n\r\nYes!
    I often miss <cite>serious</cite> criticism of type -- not just nice articles
    about the latest stuff. But then: Only type designers have an eye educated enough
    to SEE details for they share the experience of designing type. Yet at the same
    time you never know if the criticism isn't just expression of personal amity or
    animosity, or of different approaches to type design (different \"schools\").
    Who knows? Which means that a reader would need to be as critical (able to analyse)
    as the critic and have some information about work and personalities of both criticised
    and critic.\r\n\r\n[I hope my use of \"critic\" and \"criticism\" is correct.
    I remember an article about differences in the use of these words in the US and
    in Britain. But this was written pre-1900.]"
  created: '2006-03-09 08:27:20'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Karsten,\r\nI think what helps is getting critiques from several different
    people. It helps if they are a mix of type designers and good type users.  You
    see the differences in what they say as a way to balance what to make of it all.
    \ The other good thing is that it forces you to take a hard look at why you have
    done things a particular way. Sometimes you just see what a person says as correct.
    Sometimes you realize you were right in the first place but needed to really look
    hard at it to know that.\r\nI have found the critique area here on Typophile to
    be valuable in that way.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-09 12:57:55'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "What is the rap on Steile Futura in terms of suitability for text or display?
    What claims are made for it by the author of the prototype or the foundry that
    corrected it? What pretensions does it address. \r\n\r\nWhat specifically do you
    love about it Stephen? \r\nWhat aspects of the Renner drawings or the metal and
    digital realizations do you stuggle with Bill? What specific authenticity, mechanical
    reproduction, appropriation issues occupy you as you struggle with it's redigitization.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-03-09 16:02:27'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>I think what helps is getting critiques from several different people.</cite>\r\n\r\nDefinitely
    so. I take comments by non type designers serious. If they find that something
    is wrong, then something IS wrong, and you have to figure out what. But only type
    designers, by their own experience, can give comments like: \"Make this curve
    a bit smoother, and it will look right.\"\r\nWhat I cannot accept however is considering
    philosophers as authorities regarding type, photography, painting, movies. (With
    respect to type, Vilem Flusser comes to mind. He had great ideas about writing
    and type and invented etymologies that blow you away because they seem so evident
    -- why didn't I see it like that before? --, but this has almost nothing to do
    with the reality and practice of writing or designing. It's fancy. Beautiful,
    but fancy.)\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-03-09 16:46:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Peter, great questions.\r\n\r\nKarsten, I think a good rule of thumb is this:
    the most informed an opinion is, the more it has to be \"filtered\" using context.
    For example, if I get a crit of a font from a person who I happen to know makes
    chirographic type, I certainly don't ignore it outright, but I do use that context
    to eliminate or focus the particular opinions. So for example if that person says
    \"the 'g' is too dark\", great; but if he says \"the bottom of the 'd' is wrong\"
    then I know to simply smile it into oblivion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-09 16:57:19'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Karsten, Flusser sounds very interesting--what do you recommend of his? What
    available in English? \r\n\r\nOn the issue of 'ugliness' of very small type, my
    main problem with Hrant's characterization is that if taken seriously it would
    mean that you can ignore aesthetics in small type, which I don't think is right.
    As Peter notes, the type might look decent from an aesthetic viewpoint at the
    intended size, even if wierd at larger sizes. And as Tiffany points out, some
    effective at small sizes at large have aesthetic interest of their own. So the
    better way to put this, I think, is that at small sizes changes have to be made
    for legibility that may look odd at larger sizes. I think that is about as far
    as one can go. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-09 17:03:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you can ignore aesthetics in small type\r\n\r\nNo, never ignore. Simply
    give it less weight. Do you\r\nignore function at display sizes? No, but you can
    and\r\ndo push legibility harder. Same thing, just the other\r\nway around, in
    text.\r\n\r\n> may look odd\r\n\r\n<strong>Will</strong> look odd. And \"odd\"
    is basically \"ugly\" here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-09 17:16:51'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Ugly is in the eye of the beholder. '
  created: '2006-03-09 17:31:31'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'Ugly is in the eye of the beholder.'\r\n\r\nTiffany, I will hope some time
    to put up some examples that I think place the matter beyond doubt. However, they
    are not really historical examples, just my own private meanderings. \r\n\r\n'What
    is the rap on Steile Futura in terms of suitability for text or display?'\r\n\r\nIt's
    obviously not intended for anything but short passages of text, set rather large.
    However, the smallest size cut was 8 points.\r\n\r\n'What claims are made for
    it by the author of the prototype or the foundry that corrected it?'\r\n\r\nNone
    that I can find in the marketing literature beyond 'a new design by Paul Renner'.
    But then, what is needed beyond that?\r\n\r\n'What pretensions does it address.'\r\n\r\nDon't
    really understand the question which may be too broad. Could you talk a little
    bit more about this?\r\n\r\n'What aspects of the Renner drawings or the metal
    and digital realizations do you stuggle with Bill? What specific authenticity,
    mechanical reproduction, appropriation issues occupy you as you struggle with
    it\u2019s redigitization.'\r\n\r\nWhen you are redigitising, redesigning, re-producing
    a type face, you want to think that are inside of the typeface, inside the designer's
    head, inside its time in history, and yet that you are fully present in the present.
    Well, at least that is what I want. How can you present a typeface if you don't
    understand it deeply? Very generally, I know quite well - it is not a matter of
    opinion or shading - that I am not deep enough in Renner's head, far from it.
    \r\n\r\nSpeaking particularly, let's look at the problem of the left and right
    quotation marks in Steile. I am dissastisfied with them in the metal, and also
    in the Tasse re-approach, which in this respect was too literal for my taste.
    There is too much space, and it has something to do with the angle of the angled
    quotation marks, which are in any case a difficult object to deal with under the
    best of circumstances. It is probably easily fixed by bringing them closer to
    straight and tightening them. But wait: suppose I fix them and a few lines look
    OK to me. What other problems have I now caused? The simple word 'it's' looks
    bad to me in Steile Metal and Tasse. But if I fix that to my liking, what other
    problems will I have caused? What is my liking and why do I have it? To what extent
    am I the prisoner of the present, and is this preventing me from imagining the
    future? Can my study of the past help me get to the future? Did they have a better
    way of looking at the apostrophe in 1950, and should I consider that as we move
    towards 2050? \r\n\r\nDo I need to appropriate from the past in order to plan
    the future, or do I need to free myself from it? This is a particular problem
    we have in type at just this point in history. It arises because there are so
    many obvious craft and aesthetic issues we have to go back to the past for. Otherwise
    we will be stifled by our incompetence. Our problem is how to gather from the
    past only what is liberating. That isn't easy because it involves a lot of conceptual
    gear shifting.\r\n\r\nLet's take another particular small problem, the ff ligature.
    In metal, this has a typical Linotype form that I find jarring. A big sweep for
    the top of the first f, and then a tiny sweep for the second f to make it consonant
    with standalone f. Can anything be done to resolve this problem? Should the top
    of the second f of ff be extended to make it work with the first f? In that case,
    should the standalone f be similarly changed? But that would be quite a radical
    decision, wouldn't it? Was the production version designed this way in the hope
    that Linotype would eventually adapt it? If so, wouldn't it be better to un-Lino
    it? But what will be the consequences of that? How can I know what is the right
    thing to do when I don't feel an overwhelming answer coming out of me? If I don't
    have an irrational voice saying 'do this' - and I would trust that voice if I
    heard it - what rational analytical tools can I use to determine the best choice?\r\n\r\nSimilarly,
    with the other f ligatures there are consistency problems. Each has been designed
    rather differently. Perhaps each is the best compromise possible, but some seem
    too curvy, like fi, for such an angular face How can we test that? And what about
    the flaring on the f of fi that is not present in any of the other f's?\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of flaring, let's return to the e I showed. We saw that in this particular character,
    I de-cornered the bottom right feature to avoid flare. In this case, I was being
    faithful to the metal. But the analogous feature at the bottom left of the g has
    a much more intense flare in metal. To what extent should I respect that difference,
    or try to make each more consistent? How can I answer the question: why are the
    flares on e and g (and fi) so different? To what extent is consistency working
    for the face? To what extent against? \r\n\r\nWill I address the optical scaling
    question? Bauer did an outstanding job in this respect, though the 8 point may
    seem a hair too dark to some. (I was noticing this problem in Lino Granjon recently.)
    Or would a variable bold axis be adequate? In that case, what do I make available
    to the user? Different optical sizes, or to keep things simpler, some weight variants?
    \r\n\r\nSo there are a lot of problems and frankly, I don't see how they can be
    adequately solved outside of a co-operative foundry environment. From this point
    of view, it's not surprising that the only real effort to bring Steile into the
    future came from Font Bureau, and it's not surprising that nobody had the energy
    to take on the italic. \r\n\r\nStephen is right. Steile is a mystery."
  created: '2006-03-09 19:23:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Ugly is in the eye of the beholder.</em>\r\n\r\n...acutally, i thought
    the saying wen thus: \"Beauty is in the eye of the beholder, but ugly is to the
    bone!\""
  created: '2006-03-09 19:31:15'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "First of all, Vilem Flusser's <cite>Die Schrift. Hat schreiben Zukunft?</cite>
    (\"Writing. Is there future for writing?\"), by a Goettingen publisher named \"European
    Photography\", but I cannot find an English edition at Amazon. <cite>The Shape
    of Things</cite> and <cite>The Freedom of the Migrant</cite> I like most. But
    each of  his books is worth reading. Beware, he may be called postmodernist.\r\n\r\n<cite>--
    I think a good rule of thumb is this: the most informed an opinion is, the more
    it has to be \u201Cfiltered\u201D using context.</cite>\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\n<cite>--
    Different optical sizes, or to keep things simpler, some weight variants?</cite>\r\n\r\nWith
    sanserifs, especially low-contrast ones, it may be worth trying a combined solution:
    lighter weights at the same time serve as larger optical sizes. But this requires
    many finely graded weights. And details matter. E.g. your e shows rounded corners.
    Sharp corners are easier to handle, they look the same at whatever size. But then,
    your roundings are so minute that they may look ok even at larger sizes. (I tended
    toward rounded corners earlier, less minute than yours, so if enlarged, letters
    looked like sausages. I decided for sharp corners instead ...) It really depends
    on the effect you desire, but also practical considerations -- as great as optical
    sizes are typographically, who uses them? or, who will ever use more than two
    weights of a really big family?\r\nWhatever you do, and however faithful you'll
    do it -- it will be your interpretation and never a \"true\" Renner. So I would
    not bother and just try corrections and see if it would change the image of the
    type too much."
  created: '2006-03-09 21:01:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Well, I took liberties with it to make my point. I think it works both ways.
    What is ugly for some is beautiful to others, and what is beautiful for some is
    ugly to others. I think arguing over what is ugly or beautiful is asking for trouble.
  created: '2006-03-10 17:32:43'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>What is ugly for some is beautiful to others</cite>\r\nBut there is
    nonetheless a great deal of consistency in reactions, and differences of taste
    can usually be explained by high-level cognitive response - \"beliefs\" - such
    that genuine formal disagreement seems small or rare. The automatic popping up
    of the idea that beauty-is-subjective gets in the way of the development of a
    common and detailed vocabulary for talking about the formal features of a piece
    of art/craft, leaving the field open to the sociopolitical-context bores."
  created: '2006-03-10 18:06:04'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Hello Mr Leonard, I am not yet through your theses, but am reading it.\r\n\r\nAs
    to Futura uppercase, now I remember: In an issue of \"Buchhandelsgeschichte\"
    of 1995 there was a convincing refututation of the theory that Kramer was designer
    of Futura uppercase letters. It gave some exact dates for evidence.\r\n\r\nWhen
    he started with Futura, Renner could not be called type designer. Early Futura
    drawings are strictly geometric and are as \"naively\" formed as are the attempts
    by Herbert Bayer and others. Typography, lettering, type design are not the same.
    My remark was about Renner the type designer (in the twenties), not about Renner
    the book designer or Renner the lettering artist.\r\n\r\nI really enjoy this thread
    with so many parallel discussions!\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-03-10 18:29:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Karsten, I don't think you should deduce from Renner's strictly geometric
    drawings that he was typoographically naive. Remember, modernism reduced everything
    to the bare bones.\r\nChoosing to ignore the rules is not the same as being unaware
    of them."
  created: '2006-03-10 18:56:36'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Charles, I agree with your assessment. There is always the wish to tear down
    the giant, and with Renner we get some clues to how we could do this in the wildness
    of some of his drawings. But to make the leap from Renner doing wild drawings
    to Renner not knowing anything about type is to make the wrong leap. We have to
    consider also the profound cultural-psychological differences between homo Americanus
    and homo Germanicus of that period. Speer said something to the effect that what
    made war production so spectacular on either side was that you had rigid Germans
    who were suddenly given strong imperatives to sponantaneity, while on the other
    side, you had spontaneous Americans who were suddenly given stringent requirements
    towards rigidity. The result in both cases was spectacular advances in productivity.
    \r\n\r\nIn his drawings I think you see Renner making this leap from rigidity
    to spontaneity. We have to get away from the idea that a drawing is of necessity
    a blueprint for manufacturing. It isn't. A drawing in type can have the same relationship
    to manufacturing that a drawing can to a painting, especially when we know that
    the draw-er is also a painter. To quote again from an as yet unpublished essay
    by Edit DeAk, \r\n\r\n'Drawing is the simplest way of establishing a pictorial
    vocabulary because it is an instant personal declaration of what is important
    and what is not. Drawing is the most unalienated medium: private, it practically
    doesn't have an audience in mind, just the artist's expression. Because it is
    private it can be measured by its idiosyncrasies.'\r\n\r\nAnd there you have one
    of many possible, valid prisms through which to view Renner's drawings. One can
    also view many of Gill's drawings this way. They are very far from being glyphs
    that the punchcutter will literally trace on the pantograph. They are not glyphs,
    in fact, but ideas for glyphs. And they are obviously intended as such. Now the
    punchcutter or pantographist or even the designer himself must somehow translate
    these ideas into type. But it is an imperative of creativity to have the idea
    for the glyph before you have the glyph itself, and that is the function of the
    free drawing. Can a 'z' be twice as wide as we think it can? Only one way to tell:
    try it.\r\n\r\nWe have also to consider that for both Gill and Renner, there may
    have been a very clear expectation, there may have been an excellent idiomatic
    understanding, of quite precisely how one of their non-literal drawings would
    be translated into practical type by their collaborators. That being the case,
    there would be no need for them to expend any more effort. All type designers
    want to save time and labour whenever they can. (One gets the sense that was true
    also for van Krimpen, though to a lesser extent, and also that he was far too
    prideful and insecure to admit it, except indirectly.)"
  created: '2006-03-10 19:09:03'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"The automatic popping up of the idea that beauty-is-subjective gets in
    the way of the development of a common and detailed vocabulary for talking about
    the formal features of a piece of art/craft...\"\r\n\r\n\r\nThis is why I tried
    to shift the discussion to the 'optical-grammatical' and 'gestural-atmospheric'
    plane. But the entire issue is secondary to the focus of this thread. In another
    thread I will try to explain my motivatios for using these terms as alternatives
    to 'formal' / 'functional' and 'expressive'.\r\n\r\nAnd Bill, thanks so much for
    elaborating! By 'pretentions' I wanted to ask what kinds of (sometimes grandiose)
    things (like 'revolutionary') were being claimed for it.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-03-10 19:13:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I suspect Karsten is basing his opinion on more than just an impression
    from a single design of Renner's. But in any case: although I agree that one can
    never be 100% certain here, there's a reason that type design neophytes tend to
    make highly geometric fonts... \r\n\r\nAlso, one might even say that Modernism
    is anti-type.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-10 19:17:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Gill ... obviously intended as such.\r\n\r\nI don't think this can be taken
    that far. In parallel to the fruitful reliance on another person (like a punchcutter,
    or a pantograph operator) to \"manufacture\" the actual font, among some designers
    -including Gill, I'd say- there was/is a willful oblivion towards some aspects
    of the craft. It's no secret that Gill didn't do the fitting (spacing) of his
    fonts, leaving that supposedly menial task to the Monotype works boys; looking
    at some of his drawings, it seems that he didn't even incorporate overshoots to
    the rounds in his drawings! How much of that is faith in the skills of another,
    how much is plain cavalier sloppiness/laziness?\r\n\r\nDifferent people are good
    at different things, and the smart\r\nones realize what NOT to expect of themselves;
    it can be argued\r\nfor example that Gill didn't have what it takes to space a
    font;\r\nbut maybe he didn't even bother finding out either way.\r\n\r\n> it is
    an imperative of creativity to have the idea for the\r\n> glyph before you have
    the glyph itself, and that is the\r\n> function of the free drawing.\r\n\r\nI
    would instead say that \"impulsive\" activities like drawing (but especially \"painting\"
    - think calligraphy and brushwork) can reveal unexpected ideas for glyphs via
    the process itself. In fact many designers leverage this impulsiveness, sometimes
    to the point of demoting introspection, but sometimes with great results. Happy
    accidents are as common as unhappy ones!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-10 20:08:22'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>there\u2019s a reason that type design neophytes tend to make highly
    geometric fonts\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nIt's one of several genres that don't require
    typographic sophistication, true.\r\nBut as has been mentioned earlier in this
    thread, Renner was a practised lettering artist and typographer when he started
    work on Futura. It's important to distinguish modernism in general from the historical
    modernist movement that occurred during the 1910s and '20s. Tschicold, for instance,
    grew up in a house where his father was a professional calligrapher/lettering
    artist, and he acquired those skills in his teens. Nonetheless, he abandoned the
    traditional nuances when he became a modernist. \r\n\r\nBauer went along with
    Renner's radical letterforms, providing them as alternate sorts. They were eventually
    dropped through lack of sales. The same thing happened with Futura's old style
    figures. The market spoke, preferring the less busy letterforms"
  created: '2006-03-10 21:06:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The market spoke, preferring the less busy letterforms\r\n\r\nMore like:
    less sophisticated, less intelligent, less challenging.\r\nNot to deny that that
    happens, but it's a good thing at least\r\nsome of us aren't listening to the
    peons <cite>too</cite> intently.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-10 21:12:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: When the 'market' speaks, how much of that is unsophisticated preference speaking
    and how much of that is the peons' reading-ware speaking?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]
  created: '2006-03-10 21:26:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: ":->\r\n\r\nI'd say: People don't pay for what they don't know exists.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-10 21:56:18'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "The market was printers buying foundry type.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-10 23:08:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "and the amount of time to market was slow and long.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-10 23:13:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The market was printers buying foundry type.\r\n\r\nTo use for whom? To
    set what? Hmmm?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-10 23:13:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">The automatic popping up of the idea that beauty-is-subjective gets in the
    way of the development of a common and detailed vocabulary for talking about the
    formal features of a piece of art/craft, leaving the field open to the sociopolitical-context
    bores.\r\n\r\nWell put. Aesthetic quality also should not be identified with beauty
    alone, in the sense of prettiness. An illustration of both the intersubjective
    character of aesthetic quality and the difference between aesthetic quality and
    prettiness is an experience I had in China. We visited a Buddhist Temple reknowned
    for its vivid images of devils and hell. \r\n\r\nIt was full of these statues
    and pictures, and a lot were not so well done. But there were a set of stone statues
    of devils along a walkway--all hideous and truly frightening--that were just great.
    Not pretty, but aesthetic achievements. And in fact the guidebooks highlighted
    these as highlights of the Temple. Why have people admired these statues for hundreds
    of years? Well, they are good, and  it's not the matter of an individual's or
    even a generation's opinion. The guy who did them was just a better artist than
    the one  who did the others. \r\n\r\nSimilarly, you can have small type that is
    artistically better and worse, even if none of it can be as pretty as big type
    with slender limbs and thin waists.   "
  created: '2006-03-10 23:49:52'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Huuhhh, I see I must be careful with my not very proper English ...\r\nNo
    \"wish to tear down the giant\" on my part -- as said, I do admire Renner's work,
    his writings (unmatched til today), typography, his later type designs. But sorry,
    not Futura.\r\nYes, modernism reduced everything to the bare bones and is by nature
    \"naive\". Both the Bayer type and Renner's early drawings for Futura exhibit
    this. Just one example: Take the \"special\" lowercase \"a\" (the hook and the
    circle) and \"g\" (the circle and the triangle). This is not reflexion of the
    history of these forms, or their origins (say, in writing), but brutally pressing
    them into \"elementary\" clothes. (I am aware that there are \"a\" forms which
    look a bit more like studies into history, or an \"e\" which is almost unical.
    So, there are enough \"but\"s left for you.)\r\nCompare this with Rudolf Koch's
    Kabel (Cable) which follows the same idea of going back to the basics -- but at
    the same time does it in a playful and ironic way. Ends of stems are not horizontal
    but slightly diagonal and thus maintain the idea of directionality of type. And
    Kabel lowercase \"g\" is a stroke of genius: it is at the same time more rigid
    in that it is strictly geometric, and is also very \"calligraphic\" -- it resembles
    a \"g\" form you find in Koch's roman (Marathon) and rotunda (Wallau) types as
    well. In some way, with respect to Koch's other typefaces, Kabel is the real surprise.
    Though not a \"perfect\" type either.\r\n\r\nhhp: <cite>But in any case: although
    I agree that one can never be 100% certain here, there\u2019s a reason that type
    design neophytes tend to make highly geometric fonts\u2026 Also, one might even
    say that Modernism is anti-type.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes. :)\r\n\r\nhhp: <cite>It\u2019s
    no secret that Gill didn\u2019t do the fitting (spacing) of his fonts, leaving
    that supposedly menial task to the Monotype works boys; looking at some of his
    drawings, it seems that he didn\u2019t even incorporate overshoots to the rounds
    in his drawings! How much of that is faith in the skills of another, how much
    is plain cavalier sloppiness/laziness?</cite>\r\n\r\nVery interesting, I haven't
    paid attention to it before! A related idea: Can earlier type designers measured
    by the same standards as are today's type designers? It is not the same if someone
    gives in an sketch and some words and someone else does the \"technical stuff\",
    or if someone does it all on his/her own -- from the first sketch to the final
    product.\r\n\r\nBut this is now *really* off-topic. Back to Steile Futura."
  created: '2006-03-10 23:57:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> even if none of it can be as pretty as big type\r\n\r\nIt <cite>must not</cite>
    be as pretty.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-11 00:09:28'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'it seems that he didn\u2019t even incorporate overshoots to the rounds in
    his drawings! How much of that is faith in the skills of another, how much is
    plain cavalier sloppiness/laziness?'\r\n\r\nAn good reason not to put overshoot
    into master drawings is that the overshoot will be proportionally different for
    every size. \r\n\r\nThe same with fitting: that must be different for every size,
    especially in mono/lino, where unit requirements will impose slightly different
    fitting limitations at each size.\r\n\r\nAlways keep in mind that in that era,
    a type designer's master drawings are explicitly part of a production process
    where many quite different manufacturing drawings are to be made. The designer
    presents an idea of what he wants to see on the page; it is up to the foundry
    to turn that into manufacturing practice. There are many more disconnects between
    the initial design and the printed page. We are so unaccustomed to our more direct
    way of working, that it is difficult for us to remember it wasn't always so.\r\n\r\n'there\u2019s
    a reason that type design neophytes tend to make highly geometric fonts\u2026\r\n\r\nIt\u2019s
    one of several genres that don\u2019t require typographic sophistication, true.'\r\n\r\nI
    can't let you two off with this so easily. The first thing that happens when a
    neophyte constructs a simple geometric sans is that the vertical strokes are the
    same weight as the horizontal strokes. The second thing that happens is that the
    neophyte is already so type blind that he can't see that the horizontal strokes
    have to be reduced because they are visually too heavy by a few percent. This
    is one of the points in type design education where you really need someone to
    tell you what is going on, and I have had to be that person for several neophytes,
    just as someone had to be that person for me.\r\n\r\n'I\u2019d say: People don\u2019t
    pay for what they don\u2019t know exists.'\r\n\r\nTrue and characteristically
    astute. But the obverse isn't true: people won't necessarily buy what they do
    know exists, and that is especially true in type, mainly because there are so
    many choices out there that all type purchasers are suffering from overload and
    now want to simplify to the maximum extent. This has been true for several years
    and I don't know how we are to get out of this technology-driven lock. Until we
    do, there will be minute sales of non-basic items. Single-weight novelties are
    what sell, and that has been true for decades.\r\n\r\n'Yes, modernism reduced
    everything to the bare bones and is by nature \u201Cnaive\u201D.'\r\n\r\nReading
    this, I get the nostalgic feeling that if Renner were alive today, he would be
    saying exactly what he was saying 60 years ago: you have too many types, you need
    only three. As I once quipped to a Heidelberger, 'Nur einen Renner kann uns retten!'
    (Only a Renner can save us. That's the type designer's spin on Heidegger's famous
    posthumous interview with Der Spiegel from the 1970s, entitled with his most (for
    him) shocking remark, 'Nur einen Gott kann uns retten' - Only a God can save us.)\r\n\r\nSo
    maybe we need a new movement not towards complexity but simplicity? Maybe this
    is the time, hurtling towards thousands of gigantic OT fonts that nobody really
    wants either to make or to use, to rethink where we are going? And if we can't
    affect where we are going, can we affect how we are going there?\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-11 17:55:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the overshoot will be proportionally different for every size.\r\n\r\nGood
    point (and something that I once had to explain on\r\nthis very forum to a very
    fameux type designer). On the other\r\nhand, much bigger things change across
    optical sizes, to the\r\npoint that it's probably not worth making too-refined
    drawings.\r\nDunno, you tell me: http://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/gill_drw.jpg
    _\r\nDoes it make sense to define the weight (like look at the exacting\r\nvertical
    proportion numbers) but not incorporate the overshoots?\r\n\r\n> that must be
    different for every size\r\n\r\nOf course, but a [good] designer can still define
    a norm for a given size, at the very least to let on how tight/loose overall the
    design should be. I think Gill simply didn't bother thinking about spacing (in
    the realm of fonts, although certainly not lettering) at all.\r\n\r\n> I can\u2019t
    let you two off with this so easily.\r\n\r\n?\r\nBut we weren't even agreeing!
    \ :-)\r\n\r\n> This is one of the points in type design education where you really
    need someone to tell you what is going on\r\n\r\nNot really. All you need is to
    keep your eyes (and your mind) open.\r\n\r\n> there will be minute sales of non-basic
    items.\r\n\r\nMinute numerically. But the buyers value the subtle stuff a lot.\r\nWhich
    is why you price those elements (think multiple-master fonts)\r\nmuch higher.
    For example, simply including smallcaps in a basic font\r\nbundle is really stupid
    to me.\r\n\r\n> Renner were alive today, he would be saying exactly what he was\r\n>
    saying 60 years ago: you have too many types, you need only three.\r\n\r\nDid
    he not realize that none of them would be his?  :-/\r\nI don't see anybody who
    makes fonts meaning that.\r\n\r\n> So maybe we need a new movement not towards
    complexity but simplicity?\r\n\r\nTechnologically, maybe. But stylistically, quite
    the\r\nopposite. Modernism's death should be accelerated.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-11 18:36:44'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'Did he not realize that none of them would be his? :-/'\r\n\r\nNo, he didn't.
    He thought one of them would be Futura. And I don't think he was that far off
    in his expectations. Futura has proved to be very durable, even in the post-metal
    age. It was of course a great deal more useful in the metal age because we then
    had sizes that looked good in text. It is interesting that Futura is still so
    much used in medical product branding. Nothing else really carries its message
    of being completely trustworthy, scientifically valid, safe, modern, rational.
    He could not have anticipated the revival of rationalised grotesques, or of post-Syntax
    sanses (that humanist label is really too loaded, I don't like it). But if you
    want your pill to sell, you're still pretty apt to use Futura. "
  created: '2006-03-12 04:33:28'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'And isn''t it strange how impersonal Futura still feels to us today, while
    still implying scientific validity for anything it is dressed in? It really does
    seem that either our visual vocabulary has been decisively influenced by this
    typeface or that it is a nearly perfect expression, or instrument, of a need for
    post-religious verity. I am more than ever convinced that Futura really is a special
    case in the history of type design, and that Steile Futura is in its way an antithesis. '
  created: '2006-03-13 01:30:31'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Bill: \"...and that Steile Futura is in its way an antithesis.\"\r\n\r\nSo
    what does it's presence in the Renner corpus represent? Or: Where did I(t) come
    from?"
  created: '2006-03-13 03:07:25'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I would say (but this is purely speculative) that it represents Renner's
    ultimate effort to assert himself creatively and to prove that he could also do
    that in a functional manner. In type we have a convenient scale: the more individual
    any typeface is, the less functional it is. We are all perpetually involved in
    trying to bridge this chasm - it is our great struggle in type design. Is not
    Topic's appeal that it represents a maximum of individuality with a minimal hit
    (though still not negligible) hit on functionality? I should be expressing this
    more elegantly, but you get the point. \r\n\r\nThat this is so difficult to do
    is evident in the fact that there is nothing else we can really compare to Steile
    Futura in the history of type design. Nobody likes to be subservient: to craft,
    to form, to persons. Here Renner is saying, isn't he? 'Ich bin, zuletzt, Renner.'\r\n\r\nWas
    Renner familiar with Nietzsche's famous words from the preface to Ecce Homo? It
    would seem likely, and it should be possible to ascertain. In any case, they represent
    the sentiment that I am suggesting Renner may (must) have felt at this particular
    point towards the end of his life:\r\n\r\n'I have a duty against which my habits,
    even more the pride of my instincts, revolt at bottom, namely, to say: <em>Hear
    me! For I am such and such a person. Above all, do not mistake me for someone
    else!</em>'\r\n\r\n(author's italics)\r\n\r\nWhat better summary is there of the
    specific conflicts which lie under the hood of the German creative spirit? Man
    must assert himself, even though habit and 'pride of instinct' say NO! "
  created: '2006-03-14 00:08:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it is our great struggle in type design\r\n\r\nText type design.\r\n\r\n>
    Nobody likes to be subservient\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, type design is an inherently
    servile craft,\r\nand I would argue that its best practitioners are the ones who\r\nsimply
    enjoy serving users.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-14 02:26:33'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Man must assert himself\r\n\r\nI'm with Hrant on this one. \r\n\r\nIf a
    design is good it's like a child with its own identity, and the needs to stand
    strong and coherent on its own. It doesn't need an interfering father so involved
    with his own ego that he can't let the child develop according to his or her own
    nature. "
  created: '2006-03-14 04:05:24'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Well, Hrant, that is pretty much to be taken for granted, don't you think?
    We are not discussing servility per se; what we are doing here is interrogating
    how something quite out of the norm is called into being. Here, we hope to have
    left the servile behind. (In any case: who are the most servile designers? You
    might call Robert Slimbach, for example, one. Yet his work is filled with rebellions,
    if you actually look at it.) However, let us not diverge. We take it for granted
    that typography is servile, and we further assume that, by and large, the more
    servile the better. Yet why should this be a rule? Isn't the entire point of Steile
    Futura to demonstrate how, with rigour, we can attain the essential ego expressivity
    without which we probably would not be human, yet remain within the recognized
    parameters of the field? In typography, the unexceptional is the norm and the
    fantastic is inevitably quite short-lived. What is unusual is for the exception
    to have any lasting power. Here we seem to have just that case, and in its strongest
    form.\r\n\r\nI would argue that it is a case of mastery over slavery. I would
    also argue that mastery over slavery characterizes the best movies, historically.
    In film you have an art form which because of the expense in production, must
    of necessity make money. So all kinds of narrative and formal requirements have
    to be satisfied before ego expression can be thought of. Renner is obviously of
    considerable intellectual calibre and can be assumed to be aware of all of these
    things. A rigorous biography that actually delved into correspondence might clarify
    these points, but Renner outside the world of type is unlikely to attract that
    depth of scholarly interest. But couldn't we argue that a similar mechanism takes
    place in all art and literature production? That we are essentially looking for
    the point where we can say - this point of time and being is mine - with this
    work I claim it - ? \r\n\r\nI would also argue that the craftsman or artist who
    can get to this point is expected to be exceptionally talented and probably quite
    mature - but that is not always the case, is it? "
  created: '2006-03-14 04:09:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nothing a human makes can be devoid of expression, and nothing made <cite>for</cite>
    a human should try to shun expression. The servility of type design doesn't preclude
    expression - that would be inhuman. What it does mean however is that the <cite>intent</cite>
    is not self-expression; that expression happens <cite>in spite</cite> of the designer
    - because he is human - he can't help it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-14 04:26:40'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'What it does mean however is that the intent is not self-expression; that
    expression happens in spite of the designer - because he is human - he can\u2019t
    help it.'\r\n\r\nSorry, Hrant, I think you're making too big a leap there. Au
    fond, you are making the assumption that intent can be controlled, either externally
    or internally, that intent is monolithic, that intent can be even be accurately
    and fully described. I can't accept that. I find it too . . . simplified. Moreover,
    you would be the first to argue that nothing is black and white, grey is everywhere,
    etc. etc. I appreciate that you are trying to hone in on something here, and that
    doing so requires some brutal simplification. The reason I don't think it flies
    in Renner's case is that your argument implies lack of complex (and probably clearly
    articulated) intentionality on Renner's part. And that is simply inconceivable
    in someone who is artist, craftsman, intellectual, above all German of just that
    incredibly rich period. Burke can be forgiven for possibly not having a clear
    idea what constitutes a German intellect of the Weimar, Bauhaus, Nazi and postwar
    periods, but he makes it abundantly clear that Renner was one, even if he can't
    or simply doesn't care to qualify it. And that is a creature above all of clearly
    articulated intentionality. Generalities will not serve here. We are talking about
    Renner, a complex man in a complex time. I don't think Renner can be discussed
    non-contextually, and the context here is dauntingly complex and open to many
    more or less conflicting views.  I too am guilty of trying to oversimplify at
    this point, but I think I am always trying to keep context in view. Renner was
    living in times when you could turn on the radio to hear Heidegger give a lecture,
    or go outside to get involved in a street fight over Max Weber's latest lecture.
    In the midst of this inapprehensible cultural richness, you have the Nazis trying,
    largely successfully, and using the most brilliant propoganda techniques, attempting
    to impose a drastically simplified totalitarian world view that is fundamentally
    out of synch with the period that directly precedes it, and which could not have
    succeeded without Versailles, the Wall Street crash and the unbearable economic
    hardship that accompanies these events.\r\n\r\nAgainst this unbelievably powerful
    current Renner stands firm, deeply isolated, but never wavering in his opposition,
    even when the personal risk is huge and the penalties he pays are draconian and
    humiliating. This is someone who by intrinsic worth, and tried in the most frightening
    circumstances, defines intentionality. Moreover, of all people here, you are probably
    best equipped through personal experience to understand such a figure. May I suggest
    reading Burke's book, in which you might find a lot that you would understand
    better than most? Sereny's Speer would then be a good way to buy a lot of context
    at a fairly cheap price."
  created: '2006-03-14 06:45:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Wait, so those traps were drawn for <cite>display</cite> cuts?!\r\n\r\n>
    by 1932 he had dropped his insistence that artifacts of the\r\n> hand had no place
    in the creation of modern typefaces.\r\n\r\nIs that really what he [had] said?\r\nBecause
    there's a world of difference between implementing \"artifacts\" versus \"paraphrasing\"
    (as our Peter E has dubbed it). The former is done if you believe a given artifact
    somehow helps, irrespective of its -circumstancial- chirographic origin; the latter,
    if you think chirography itself somehow helps.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "<em>Wait, so those traps were drawn for display cuts?!</em>\r\n\r\nAccording
      to caption, which is all I have to go on, the \"Skizzen\" [sketches] were explorations
      of alternate characters/weights for Futura Schlagzeile [headline]. I agree that
      the cuts are odd. They may indicate that in 1932 Renner was considering a new,
      condensed text font, but that is pure speculation. However, the arrival of Steile
      Futura in 1952 suggests that that was what he was considering.\r\n\r\n<em>Is
      that really what he [had] said?</em>\r\nThroughout <em>Typografie als Kunst</em>
      and <em>Mechaniserte Grafik,</em> Renner draws distinctions between form, which
      derives from \"organic\" processes, and style, which is the province of the
      artist. He defined the task of his time as, \"\u2026 the conscious confrontation
      with the mechanical, the cleansing of mechanized technology of the old form-world
      of handicraft.\u201D Because type formed its word images by a single application
      of pressure from the type, and not the ductile movement of pen over paper, anything
      that made reference to a process different from printing\u2014writing\u2014was
      not inherent in the \"form idea\" of the letter, and, if an artist was to work
      in a style commensurate with the mechanical era, artifacts of the hand and pen
      such as slope, stroke weight difference, curve thickness transitions, et al
      had no place in the \"Schrift unserer Zeit.\"\r\nCharles\r\n"
    created: '2006-03-22 00:54:33'
  created: '2006-03-21 14:27:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Warning: This thought might be crazy.\r\n\r\nFor these display characters
    would have the traps been added for consideration of silkscreen printing or something
    like that?"
  created: '2006-03-22 19:46:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Is there an English version of the Bauer site Mr. Stephen Coles listed at
    he top? I only see Spanish.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-22 20:45:06'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'What is clear is that by 1932 he had dropped his insistence that artifacts
    of the hand had no place in the creation of modern typefaces.'\r\n\r\nI think
    that's the most important insight to take away from this. It makes me so uncomfortable
    every time someone says 'you must do it this way, because it's un-something to
    do it any other way', or 'this is the only valid way' or 'such-and-such is out
    of time, inauthentic, inartistic, invalid, unchirographic, uncalligraphic, untypographic,
    unmechanical, unhumanistic (whatever that dreadful word now means in type), out
    of order and unPC', etc. etc. etc. I don't think it matters much how or why we
    do what we do. What matters if it works - for someone. Maybe that someone whom
    it works for will be millions of readers. Or maybe that someone will be only one.
    It doesn't matter. Like Julia Margaret Cameron said 150 years ago when she was
    attacked for her fuzzy photographs, which people are obstinately still admiring,
    'Who is to say which is the right focus?'"
  created: '2006-03-28 07:36:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "We can only trust in our own eyes to reveal what we see. If someone else
    describes what they see, it does not reproduce that vision for you. Designers
    should just produce what it is that they see as best and let the public decide
    later if that choice works for them.\r\nWe spend too much time putting things
    in neat catagories so that we can either point to catagorizations we approve of
    or to those we damn to hell. All of the \"isms\" or \"istics\" don't absolve the
    designer from his or her duty to make it work on its own. Whether it is Modernism,
    Humanism, Artistic or Scientific in its intelectualized pidgeon holeing doesn't
    amount to a gram of good. The society of self-proclaimed critics will find a reason
    to condem anything that does not fit their mould so just do what you will and
    go on to the next thing knowing you tried your best.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-29 20:38:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If someone else describes what they see,\r\n> it does not reproduce that
    vision for you.\r\n\r\nI agree, but there's a related paradox: some things cannot
    be\r\ncommunicated through vision, but can only be approached\r\nconceptually/verbally.
    I learned this the hard way when I\r\nshowed around my alphabet reform font -
    which was NOT a\r\nfont, but a nebulous set of structures. Kant sho dat.\r\n\r\n>
    We spend too much time putting things in neat catagorie\r\n\r\nThat's certainly
    true.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-29 20:44:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...some things cannot be\r\ncommunicated through vision, but can only be
    approached\r\nconceptually...\"\r\n\r\nLike the sound of one hand clapping.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-29 20:48:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>showed around my alphabet reform font</em>\r\n\r\nIt depends on who show
    show it to, and when.\r\nAll it takes is one crazy art director to say \"hey,
    I can do something with that\", and maybe someone else will pick up the ball and
    run with it, and it becomes a trend then an institution.\r\nIn Trissino's case,
    he introduced three reforms in the 16th century -- u, j, and \"omega\" (long o).
    The first two caught on 100 years later, the third never. You never know, and
    you really will never know if you don't publish the font, and the argument (aka
    propaganda, promotion) that goes along with it."
  created: '2006-03-29 21:04:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> It depends on who show show it to, and when.\r\n\r\nWell, I showed it around
    a lot (including at two conferences, in a book article, one-on-one, etc.) and
    the result was I had to spend half of my waking hours explaining what it WASN'T!
    So I don't mean nobody liked the idea - it's that few people GOT the idea, which
    is my point: it's due to a certain paradox of communication - some things can
    only be explained, not shown - in fact when you show them it gets worse!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-29 21:15:34'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "<em>I think that\u2019s the most important insight to take away from this.
    It makes me so uncomfortable every time someone says \u2018you must do it this
    way...of order and unPC\u2019, etc. etc. etc. I don\u2019t think it matters much
    how or why we do what we do. What matters if it works - for someone.</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    was a specific \"aha!\" moment when I read a quip by Matthew Carter that said
    \"if it looks right it is right.\" Perhaps too much of a simplification of the
    above idea, but this resonates with me. It has been my muse ever since.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-04-01 01:24:31'
- author:
    name: clark.kent
  body: Does anybody have this font?
  created: '2007-10-13 19:42:12'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I thought that Renner's lowercase letters provided a perfect complement to
    uppercase characters found on an old WPA poster; the result is here...\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/fonts/nicksfonts/dinky-rink-nf/regular/"
  created: '2010-05-24 19:24:59'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "A few photos more (distorted and out of focus, sorry ...), in addition to
    the drawings Charles Leonhard already posted about four years ago. The source
    for these pictures is a publication by the typographic society in Munich:\r\n\r\n<em>Paul
    Renner. Eine Jahresgabe der Typographischen Gesellschaft M\xFCnchen, zusammengestellt
    und herausgegeben von Philipp Luidl, unter Mitarbeit von G\xFCnter Gerhard Lange,
    Typographische Gesellschaft M\xFCnchen 1978</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nText on p 88 (my
    translation):\r\n<em>Here you see \u2013 as an extension to 'Futura', which is
    based on circle and square \u2013 a variant that is based on rectangle. This developed
    1932 into 'Futura Schlagzeile'.</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_p88_89_6623.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_p89_6324.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nText
    on p 90:\r\n<em>Trial version of 'Futura Schlagzeile', proof on 9 March 1932.\r\nThe
    long s and the uncial-script-like shape of T were later omitted, as well as the
    alternative shape of A that corresponded more with the lower case a.</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_p90_91_6560.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_p91_4131.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nText
    on p 92:\r\n<em>Drawings for the initially planned regular for 'Futura Schlagzeile'.\r\nK,
    M and V have diagonals that are different from the final version.</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_p92_93_6563.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_p93_6578.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nText
    on p 94:\r\n<em>Alternative shapes for 'Futura Schlagzeile'. Note the remarkable
    B. Renner, as a skilled draughtsman, avoided plain construction. The vertical
    strokes in B, C, P and Q are curved.</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_p94_95_5171.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_p95_5746.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nText
    on p 96 (same as the picture already posted four years ago):\r\n<em>Concept for
    the italic regular for 'Futura Schlagzeile'. These shapes \u2013 although being
    broader and more fluid \u2013 already anticipate the characteristics of 'Steile
    Futura italic'.</em>\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_p96_97_3591.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nText
    on p 98 (same as the picture already posted four years ago):\r\n<em>The fluidity
    at the beginning of the stroke and in the terminals is much better (here) than
    in 'Steile Futura italic'. Note the shape of german s, a quality criterion for
    the connoisseur.</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_p98_99_3715.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nAll
    Renner's typefaces, in chronological order (p 51)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/IMG_p51_5435.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-27 13:47:55'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: Thanks for posting these photos, Wolfgang!
  created: '2010-05-27 13:52:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: Great post, Wolfgang!
  created: '2010-05-27 16:56:45'
date: '2006-02-28 01:12:21'
title: The Mystery of Steile Futura (Topic)

---
