---
author:
  name: billtroop
  picture: 109800
body: "LETIMES has the latest installment of the Segoe Saga!!!!\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nWe're
  so excited about it that we're posting to Typophile before doing anything else.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBreathtaking
  new heights have been scaled in design piracy, which will shortly be the subject
  of new content at letimes.com, which as you know is the site that <em>celebrates</em>
  type piracy (though it sure doesn't update its website too often).\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nWhen
  Adobe pirated Frutiger in 1993, the designer complained, and Adobe sent Frutiger
  a letter explaining in seven dense pages, all the <em>true differences</em> there
  were between Myriad and Frutiger.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBut Microsoft's new corporate typeface,
  Segoe, will cause less trouble. This masterpiece of fidelity is so hard to distinguish
  from Frutiger that, as we learnt in the EU ruling today, <em>Microsoft now takes
  the official position that there is no difference between the two designs.</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nSee
  the EU trademark and design authority decision <a href=\"http://oami.eu.int/PDF/design/invaldec/ICD%20000000743%20decision%20(EN).pdf\">here</a>:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
  latest news in this saga is that the EU trademark and design registration office
  has declared Linotype the winner and invalidated Microsoft's registration of Segoe
  as an original typeface, which just proves our point. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nHowever, though
  Microsoft may have lost at the EU, we at Le Times congratulate Microsoft for doing
  an even better job than Adobe in getting to the <em>true essense</em> of Frutiger.
  Can anything rival the fidelity and sensitivity with which this princely project
  of piracy has been realised? Can a Peignot award be beckoning for its gifted designers?
  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nSadly, Le Times must note that Frutiger won't be able to discuss
  his typeface with Microsoft this time around. Now seventy-five, and ill with lung
  disease, it seems he doesn't have the strength to concern himself with the matter.
  \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBut there is good news too!!!! We expect that Microsoft's shareholders
  will be grateful to Microsoft for hitting upon this delightful method of saving
  money. Before commissioning Segoe, Microsoft <em>did</em>, Le Times has heard from
  Linotype, try to license Frutiger, but baulked at Linotype's price: one penny per
  OS sold. Kudos to Microsoft for realizing that <em>pennies</em> add up to an <em>unacceptable</em>
  and <em>unfair</em> shareholder <em>burden</em>. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nWe expect there
  will be some <em>carpers</em> out there who fancy it unfair that Frutiger will be
  deprived of substantial royalties for his work. We can allay their anxiety by advising
  them to consider the practical, shareholder-driven view: Frutiger will soon no longer
  be with us.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nWe ask everyone in the design community to join us in
  endorsing Microsoft on this felicitous occasion. It takes an entity of Microsoft's
  <em>philanthropic</em> resources to be able to deliver this final tribute to a great
  designer on his sickbed. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n(Personally, I would have sent flowers
  instead.)\x1A"
comments:
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "The <a href=\"http://oami.eu.int/PDF/design/invaldec/ICD 000000743 decision
    (EN).pdf\" target=\"_blank\">decision paper</a> of the EU trademark office.\r\n\r\nSome
    additional words from Mr. Steinert on the German typeforum to Frutiger Next and
    its development.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typeforum.de/news_339.htm -\r\nhttp://www.typeforum.de/news_254.htm\r\n\r\n--<a
    href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-03-01 11:00:42'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "After perusal of the legal decision, it seems to me that Heidelberger Druckmaschinen
    AG could not register \"Frutiger Next\" as a design.\r\n\r\nIs this correct?"
  created: '2006-03-02 15:41:24'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: I don't know any details but I gather there was some problem because Frutiger
    was a pre-existing design. It seems to me that they could have registered the
    italic only, but I really don't know. I will inquire.
  created: '2006-03-03 03:18:48'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> they could have registered the italic only\r\n\r\nThere also exist invalidity
    decisions concerning the italic styles,\r\n\r\ne.g. this decision http://www.sanskritweb.de/files/segoe3.pdf\r\n\r\nFor
    both regular and italic fonts, exactly the same letters (\"a\", \"c\", \"e\",
    \"t\", \"g\", \"3\", \"5\", \"6\", \"9\" etc.) are \"rightfully observed\" by
    the invalidity division. See section 11 on page 4 of file segoe3.pdf\r\n\r\nNowadays
    not only typefaces are pirated, sorry \"copied\", but court decisions too ...\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-03 08:02:37'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Uli, thank you so much for this! My God, I had no idea Steve had so totally
    cloned the italic as well.\r\n\r\nAnd what is Microsoft saying in the pdf you
    link to? Essentially this: <em>We do not dispute that the designs are identical.
    We dispute that Linotype sold this data before 2004.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat a crock
    of S-C-H-E-I-S-S-E. We all know that Frutiger Next has been sold by Linotype for
    several years now.\r\n\r\nSorry, Steve Matteson - I love you but you should have
    wiped your ---- before you consented to get involved in this really filthy project.\r\n\r\nI'm
    sorry to be so crude, but even Goethe was when the occasion demanded, and I think
    this occasion demands it.\r\n\r\nA lot of people need to wipe their ---- here
    and this is what I suggest to the Microsoft corporate people:\r\n\r\nLet MS pay
    off Frutiger and Linotype.\r\n\r\nLet MS in future describe the typeface as a
    specially designed tribute to the great Adrian Frutiger by his great admirer Steve
    Matteson.\r\n\r\nThat is it. End of story. Nobody will ever talk about it again.\r\n\r\nAnd
    as for you font people at MS, I have this to say. The next time you need a new
    typeface, whether it's for corporate ID or for something else, do not go to a
    slippery autodidact, a professional cloner, or a hinting technician. Go to one
    of the acknowledged masters now in productive late middle age. You have four good
    choices: Unger, Carter, Berlow, Stone. All four are at the height of their powers,
    and all four are hungry. These are the designers who can do the work you need
    done, <em>and do it without disgracing you</em>. And do it cheap. Guys --- have
    you thought about your futures? Do you really think Microsoft is going to keep
    on retaining you if you continue to get it into these endless PR, technical, and
    legal messes? Do you really think you are serving your company well by embarassing
    it as much as you have in the past two years? And this at the point when Microsoft
    most needs you to be making superb decisions? When there is so much at stake?\r\n\r\nGuys,
    do you think Microsoft likes being the loser in a legal dispute?"
  created: '2006-03-04 22:12:04'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "A note on website statistics:\r\n\r\nAt the top of this page is stated that
    this thread has a total of \"730 reads\" (at this very moment, while I write this),
    whereas my website statistics says today that file segoe3.pdf has a total of \"24
    downloads\", i.e. 3.3 per cent (24 out of 730).\r\n\r\nAt another thread, the
    ratio was even worse: Only 1 % downloads of a linked file in comparison with nearly
    1000 \"reads\" of the thread. Anyone who makes links to one's own files at one's
    own websites will confirm similar ratios.\r\n\r\nSo I wonder: What does the expression
    \"reads\" really mean?"
  created: '2006-03-10 08:24:38'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'It probably means that most of the people who read this thread already had
    the pdfs. Of course, they can''t comment, now that their company has shot them
    in the foot by making it Microsoft''s legal position that Frutiger and Segoe are
    identical. Since Segoe/Frutiger is said to be such a vital part of the Vista UI,
    it will be interesting to see how this plays out. I don''t envy any of the participants
    their present position. But the moral is, if you don''t steal a font, a lot of
    bad things don''t happen to you. What''s the old advice ... thou shalt not steal
    ... something like that? '
  created: '2006-03-11 09:08:38'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> thou shalt not steal\r\n\r\nTheft is an inappropriate legal term in this
    case. For the legal background of the Segoe case concerning the European laws
    read the text file\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/segoe.txt"
  created: '2006-03-12 11:01:35'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I cannot entirely agree with this without further information, as I am not
    convinced that in common law argument forgery is anything more than a particular
    kind, or subset, of theft. \r\n\r\nOED defines theft as 'The action of a thief;
    the felonious taking away of the personal goods of another; larceny; also, with
    a and pl., an instance of this. Forgery, by contrast, is '3. The making of a thing
    in fraudulent imitation of something; also, esp. the forging, counterfeiting,
    or falsifying of a document. For the use in Law see quot. 1769.' That quote, from
    no less than Blackstone is:\r\n\r\n1769 Blackstone Comm. IV. 245 Forgery, or the
    crimen falsi..\u2018the fraudulent making or alteration of a writing to the prejudice
    of another man\u2019s right.\u2019\r\n\r\nI am certainly willing to accept your
    position that the proper term to be used here is forgery, but I would want German,
    British and American legal opinions on that before coming to a firm opinion of
    my own. Well, and I would also, since I was quoting from the Bible, want to hear
    a Biblical law opinion as well. \r\n\r\nI have a question. You write, in the referenced
    webpage,\r\n\r\n'By the same token, \"Frutiger\" and \"Myriad\" are regarded\r\nas
    \"identical\". Therefore, Adobe Inc. is not allowed to\r\nregister its forgery
    \"Myriad\" as \"new\" and \"individual\"\r\ndesign in the European Community.'\r\n\r\nThis
    implies that Adobe has attempted to register Myriad and that the EU has determined
    that it is identical to Frutiger. I have not heard of this actually occurring.
    Has it? If so, could you document it? Or were you stating a hypothetical case?
    If so, I think it would have been helpful to have stated that.\r\n\r\nYou point
    out that Microsoft has a right of appeal, but I suspect that the position enunciated
    by its own lawyers - that the typefaces are identical - cuts off any possibility
    for Microsoft to prevail in future actions of any kind with regard to this typeface.
    Who, by the way, is Graf von so and so? Do you happen to know, Uli? "
  created: '2006-03-13 01:01:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>You point out that Microsoft has a right of appeal, but I suspect that
    the position enunciated by its own lawyers - that the typefaces are identical
    - cuts off any possibility for Microsoft to prevail in future actions of any kind
    with regard to this typeface.</em>\r\n\r\nThe judgement states that Linotype's
    observation that the Segoe and Frutiger are identical is uncontested by Microsoft.
    That seems to me something less than a positive statement by Microsoft: it may
    simply mean that they did not elect to answer this observation at all. Could they
    choose to address it in an appeal? I don't know."
  created: '2006-03-13 05:26:54'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: Hmm. You think I have overstated MS's position? Perhaps I have. I will have
    to reread the material. In any case, in common law, you can't appeal factual findings,
    roughly speaking, but only the application of law to those findings -- I think.
    How this works for the EU I have no idea. There is also only so much we can learn
    from the rather sparse material on display here. We have not seen any of the briefs,
    we have not heard any of the arguments. Whatever the case, I have the feeling
    that MS's statement, or acquiescence in Lino's position, whichever it is, has
    made the case irretrievable for MS. I can't wait for the next installment! Whatever
    happens, I get the feeling that this is an important event in the development
    of practical type law and type ethics. Why it should so have touched a nerve,
    why it should continue to interest, I have no idea. But it does. It is different
    from a lot of similar cases in the past, perhaps because of the stature of the
    typeface, the designer, and the corporations involved; perhaps it is just the
    world historical mood. Perhaps it is just that there has simply been too much
    of this. This seems to be the one moment when everyone rose up with one voice
    to say 'Enough!'
  created: '2006-03-13 09:27:23'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "1)\r\n\r\n> OED defines theft as \u2018The action of a thief; the felonious
    taking away of the personal \r\n\r\nIt is okay to speak of \"theft\" in the Segoe
    case, provided this term is used metaphorically. But from the legal point of view,
    the word \"theft\" should be avoided here, because most states of Europa and also
    most states of America restrict \"theft\" to \"movable property\", for example:\r\n\r\n\"Whoever
    intentionally and without claim of right takes, uses, transfers, conceals or retains
    possession of movable property of another without the other's consent and with
    intent to deprive the owner permanently of possession of the property...\" (definition
    of theft in Minnesota penal code).\r\n\r\nAccording to the above Minnesota statute
    definition of \"theft\", one can e.g. steal a CD containing fonts (because CDs
    are \"movable\"), but one cannot e.g. steal the design of a font (because the
    design is \"intangible\"). \r\n\r\n2)\r\n\r\n> This implies that Adobe has attempted
    to register Myriad and that the EU has \r\n\r\nThe forgery Myriad contains the
    legal declaration \"U.S. Patent Des. pending\", but it is unknown to me, whether
    Adobe Inc. registered Myriad in Europe. This would be illegal in Europe, since
    Myriad is a forgery of Frutiger. Registering a forgery of Frutiger in Europe constitutes
    the crime of fraud, if the sale of the forgery takes place. In the Segoe case,
    the crime of fraud did not yet take place, since the sale of this Frutiger forgery
    (or rather the sale of Windows Vista containing the forgery) does not yet take
    place in Europe.\r\n\r\nNote: The invalidity division stated that \"the prior
    design and the RCD are to be considered identical\". The prior design is the original,
    and the RCD is the forgery. In the Myriad case, the invalidity division would
    certainly arrive at the same conclusion as in the Segoe case. \r\n\r\n3)\r\n\r\n>
    Who, by the way, is Graf von so and so? \r\n\r\n\"Bosch, Graf von Stosch, Jehle\"
    (note the commas) are the names of lawyers of a law firm in the city of Munich
    in Germany representing the Microsoft Corporation in patent law matters.\r\n\r\nsee
    http://www.bgsj.de\r\n\r\n4)\r\n\r\n> The judgement states that Linotype\u2019s
    observation that the Segoe and Frutiger are\r\n> identical is uncontested by Microsoft.
    That seems to me something less than a\r\n> positive statement by Microsoft: it
    may simply mean that they did not elect to\r\n> answer this observation at all.
    Could they choose to address it in an appeal? \r\n\r\nIt should be emphasized
    that the invalidity decision is not a \"judgement\" by a law court, but a decision
    by a non-judiciary administative office. For those who want to know to what extent
    the design of fonts may be protected in Europe, I uploaded the full text of the
    \"Council Regulation No 6/2002 of 12 December 2001 on Community designs\" as document
    Segoe4.pdf to my website\r\n\r\nsee http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/index.htm#Monotype\r\n\r\nMicrosoft
    of course is permitted to appeal (see the invalidity decision shown in file Segoe1.pdf
    and see also page 23 of file Segoe4.pdf). But what is more important, should Microsoft
    not win this appeal, it can institute legal proceedings at a real law court (see
    page 24 of file Segoe4.pdf). This means that the invalidity decision of the administrative
    invalidity division is not yet final, although the invalidity decision would become
    final, if Microsoft did not lodge an appeal.\r\n\r\nNevertheless, despite all
    these various legal remedies available to Microsoft, in my view it is practically
    impossible that Microsoft will win for two reasons:\r\n\r\na) From the procedural
    point of view, the fact that Microsoft did not contest (\"As rightfully observed
    by the Applicant and uncontested by the Holder, the prior design and the RCD are
    to be considered identical.\") has the procedural consequence that any later contestation
    will not be accepted by a law court on account of the legal principle called \"venire
    contra factum proprium\". Therefore to assume \"it may simply mean that they did
    not elect to answer this observation at all\" would mean, at least by European
    procedural law, that the Microsoft lawyers Bosch, Graf von Stosch, Jehle made
    an unpardonable procedural mistake which is difficult or even impossible to remedy
    later by another law firm.\r\n\r\nb) However, even if Microsoft's belated contestation
    would be accepted by a law court, such a contestation is useless, because Microsoft
    cannot to prove that Segoe is *not* identical with Frutiger (\"identical\" in
    the sense used by the invalidity division). Therefore, in my view, the Microsoft
    lawyers Bosch, Graf von Stosch, Jehle did not make a procedural mistake, but instead
    came to the conclusion that would be futile to contest that Segoe is not a forgery
    of Frutiger.\r\n\r\n5)\r\n\r\nThe real trouble will start for Microsoft, as so
    as Microsoft starts selling Windows Vista including the forgery Segoe to customers
    in Europe. In strict legal parlance, Microsoft does not \"sell\" Windows in the
    same way a baker sells pancakes, but Microsoft \"grants licences\" via EULA contracts,
    i.e. it \"sells\" rights. But Microsoft does not own the rights to Segoe, since
    nobody can legally own the rights to any forgery of Frutiger. And since it constitutes
    the crime of fraud, if someone \"sells\" rights which do not exist, any European
    customer can request that the monopolist Microsoft sells Windows Vista without
    the forgery Segoe. And this means that Microsoft will have to offer two versions
    of Windows Vista: One version including the Frutiger forgery Segoe designed for
    Americans and one version without the Frutiger forgery Segoe designed for Europeans."
  created: '2006-03-13 22:33:44'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Thank you, Uli, for clarifying these matters quite satisfactorily. I am interested
    in the detail you give as to the possible action against Microsoft for fraud that
    would appear to lie open to Linotype were Segoe to be sold or licensed in the
    EU. I had assumed that Linotype would have such an action open to them, since
    it is incontestable that Microsoft knew in enormous detail about the existence
    of Frutiger before they decided to forge it, to use the terminology you suggest:
    (a) MS had already licensed Frutiger for eBooks, not something Microsoft likes
    to do but in this case it evidently realised the induplicable benefits that would
    accrue from using Frutiger in eBooks and (b) Microsoft later attempted to license
    Frutiger Next for Vista, but refused to accept Linotype's terms of a penny (US)
    per OS unit sold/licensed.\r\n\r\nBut wouldn't that action technically lie open
    now, as a consequence of Segoe's exceptionally wide distribution to graphic designers
    and beta testers? We have to consider that Segoe is not only said by Microsoft
    to be an essential part of the UI in Vista. It has also been stated to be Microsoft's
    new corporate identity typeface and has been distributed as such.\r\n\r\nWhat
    I cannot quite understand is why Microsoft caused so many statements to be published
    online and elsewhere concerning the 'originality' of Segoe. This apparently was
    done in the full knowledge that these statements were not true. \r\n\r\nThis raises
    the question why such publication was made and when. Some of these publications
    appeared to be spontaneous 'comments' on blogs such as this one. It would now
    appear that such apparently spontaneous comments were in reality part of a carefully
    orchestrated propoganda campaign. I hate to use that politically charged word
    propoganda, but what else is there? From a practical standpoint, one would also
    be interested to learn how the parties to the forgery agreed to indemnify themselves.
    \r\n\r\nSadly, now that the issue has come to litigation, I expect it will be
    some time before we see any Microsoft employee publishing or posting any (dis)information
    about Segoe, for obvious legal reasons. Maybe I'm misreading the situation? In
    that case  . . . \r\n\r\n              Hey guys! The floor is open to you! . .
    . . .\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-13 23:45:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Bill, I think you've said it all.\r\nWith regards to the \"old\" guys not
    participating in the ClearType project, perhaps they were invited but share your
    politics and didn't want to sully themselves.\r\nSo if push came to shove, and
    MS offered to pay you big bicks for a commission, would you accept?"
  created: '2006-03-14 22:47:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What exactly is sleazy about CT?!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-15 00:35:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "It should be noted, for the sake of clarity, that Segoe UI was commissioned
    from Monotype by the Microsoft Typography group, while the ClearType Collection
    fonts were commissioned, from various designers, by the Advanced Reading Technologies
    group (who were also responsible for the eBook software and the earlier licensing
    of Frutiger). These two groups at Microsoft operate independently, with entirely
    separate budgets and mandates. If there are feathers to be tarred, watch where
    you are flinging the brush about.\r\n\r\nOf course, what corporate lawyers decide
    is the best strategy to pursue in a patent challenge doesn't necessarily reflect
    the personal views of people in either the MS Typography or ART groups.\r\n\r\nThe
    only thing to add is that I that I think Jeremy Tankard's Corbel, from the CT
    collection, would make a very nice UI and corporate identity font :)"
  created: '2006-03-15 04:20:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>What exactly is sleazy about CT?!</em>\r\n\r\nDo you think that Hermann
    Zapf or Adrian Frutiger would accept a commission to develop fonts for Microsoft? "
  created: '2006-03-15 06:58:46'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Thank you John for (I would judge) going out on a bit of a limb to make this
    point clear: the Segoe story has nothing (as far as I know or can imagine) to
    do with the ClearType story. It is important not to get the points confused. If
    Nick can get the two issues confused, anyone can get them confused, and they should
    not be confused. The fault may be mine, perhaps for having been unable to resist
    a cautious if slightly Menckenian dig (which I hope will have a brought a reluctant
    smile) at the CT project that I thought was so vague it would sail over everyone's
    head. My touch is clumsier than I thought and the remark should not have been
    made.\r\n\r\nNick, you raise some good points which I would like to address. You
    suggest that the old guys may have been invited to participate in the CT project
    but declined on political grounds. That is not the case, I happen to know. None
    of them was asked. Clearly, there was a desire to bring some new and younger faces
    on the scene. That is inherently laudable, extremely so. In this case, there were
    overriding practical reasons why it should not have been done, or not have been
    done to quite the extent it was done, but that has all been gone into on this
    forum and presumably forgotten. I wish it were quite off topic but it isn't. To
    continue with your train of speculation, since the 'Four Kings' weren't asked,
    we can't know how they would have responded. But I think I can safely guess that
    they would have accepted, and for two reasons. The first is that almost no type
    designer can afford to turn down a commission, and to go further, there is scarcely,
    I think, any artist or craftsman who is not eager to make the Faustian compact,
    if only he is given the chance. \r\n\r\nThe second reason is that the designer/artist/craftsman
    who is dealing with the devil always thinks he can do something to correct the
    devil's ill deeds. The latter of these factors operated for Zapf when he consented
    to design Linotype Palatino for Microsoft. I don't think he needs the money, but
    I do know that he ardently hoped, and was led to believe, that 'Book Antiqua'
    - as great an affront to him as Segoe is to Frutiger - would disappear from the
    Microsoft OS. And it did. But not from Microsoft apps. Apparently, Book Antiqua
    is too entrenched to enjoy the death that Zapf was led to expect would befall
    it when he consented to build Linotype Palatino for Microsoft. I believe that
    the deed could have been done with some sort of substitution tables and perhaps
    some explanatory information, but Microsoft, undoubtedly for what it saw as overwhelming
    practical reasons, chose not to go that way. At least as I understand what transpired.
    Furthermore, though Book Antiqua was designed to have metrics identical to Postscript
    35 Palatino, what if the new Linotype Palatino metrics were not identical? And
    wouldn't that have been an unfair burden to place on the designer?\r\n\r\n'So
    if push came to shove, and MS offered to pay you big bicks for a commission, would
    you accept?'\r\n\r\nI would like to say 'indubitably yes', but I am so unaccountable,
    there's no telling what I would do. And I very much doubt I will ever have the
    opportunity to find out.\r\n\r\nWhat I would like to say is that your remarks
    connect with something that has been going on in my head over the last few days,
    and that is that I constantly find myself looking for an easy way to solve some
    type problem and get something out there that is good and doesn't take much effort.
    And I am constantly finding that every time I try to do this, it doesn't work.
    But I can't stop myself from looking for an easy way out. You would think, after
    all this time, I would have learnt my lesson. And I am just thinking in the realm
    of pretty ordinary text type. I can imagine that a charming, daffy, and quite
    original display typeface like your Fontesque might have sprung out pretty quickly
    and effortlessly. On the other hand, it would not surprise me if a lot of long
    and grueling work went into it. Which way was it for you, Nick? \r\n\r\nFinally,
    and getting further off topic, John, I would not be surprised if Corbel would
    make a great UI and corporate font, but you really ought to make an effort to
    show it better than you have done in the past! Speaking of which, we are very
    busy here defending the Frutiger typeface, as it is right for us to do. But I
    quite agree that almost anything else would have been a better choice for Microsoft.
    Especially given Apple's extensive use of Myriad. Isn't it amazing how  exceptionally
    staid and rigid technology companies are in their corporate ID schemata? I sometimes
    find myself thinking that I would be happy never to see Frutiger again. It needs
    a rest. Yet on the other hand, it <em>has</em> had a rest. Here we are seeing
    its second period of triumph. And maybe the reason both Apple and Microsoft are
    using Frutiger so extensively is that the matter is, somehow, not really in their
    control? That Frutiger is, somehow, the typographic language such a company <em>has</em>
    to speak at this point in time? The more I learn about Frutiger, the more powerful
    it seems. \r\n\r\nBe that as it may, the ethical issue does not change. It doesn't
    matter if you like Frutiger or dislike Frutiger. It doesn't matter if you want
    to use it, or don't want to use it, or are compelled by inscrutable forces to
    use just this Weltbild/design against your will: if you do actually use Frutiger,
    you must pay Linotype, its owner, for it."
  created: '2006-03-15 07:27:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Do you think that Hermann Zapf or Adrian Frutiger would\r\n> accept a commission
    to develop fonts for Microsoft?\r\n\r\nOh, so you're saying MS as a whole is terminally
    sleazy.\r\n\r\nNevermind that for years they've been contributing more to quality\r\ntypography
    among the masses than any other large corporation.\r\n\r\nSo Nick, is it about
    culture for you, or is it really about <cite>money</cite>?\r\n\r\n> a desire to
    bring some new and younger faces on the scene.\r\n\r\nWhich makes it very ironic
    that Nick's trademark forceful endorsement for the contemporary versus the established
    precedent conveniently doesn't apply when it comes to a party that he feels hurts
    his bottom line (essentially by releasing better fonts).\r\n\r\n\"So if push came
    to shove, and MS offered to pay you big bicks for a commission, would you accept?\"\r\n\r\nYou
    would, Nick.\r\n\r\n> The more I learn about Frutiger, the more powerful it seems.\r\n\r\nNot
    to me. The fact that Apple and MS use it\r\nsimply means it has a \"staid\" corporate
    voice.\r\n\r\n> if you do actually use Frutiger, you must pay Linotype, its owner,
    for it.\r\n\r\nBut only because Linotype is a reasonable entity. Otherwise,\r\nthe
    ethical and legal paths diverge, and I for one prefer\r\nfollowing the former
    (as much as I can manage).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-15 09:42:58'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Thank you, Uli, for clarifying these matters quite satisfactorily.\r\n>
    I am interested in the detail you give as to the possible action\r\n> against
    Microsoft for fraud that would appear to lie open to\r\n> Linotype were Segoe
    to be sold or licensed in the EU.\r\n\r\nAs already stated by me, the real trouble
    does not start now, but will start in the near future, e.g. by the end of 2006
    or later, when Windows Vista is sold by Microsoft in Europe. There are three different
    legal scenarios, namely these:\r\n\r\n1) Segoe as ordinary fraud crime\r\n\r\nThis
    legal scenario cannot be specified presently, because it is not yet known, whether
    e.g. Ascender will sell the Frutiger forgery Segoe in the near or far future.\r\n\r\n2)
    Segoe as \"branding\" case\r\n\r\nThis legal situation already exists today, because
    Microsoft and its advertising and promotion agencies already today use Segoe as
    \"branding\" font for typesetting of Microsoft advertisements etc. See the publicity
    PDF files at the www.Microsoft.com website.\r\n\r\nIn the Segoe \"branding\" case,
    the legal situation is completely identical to the legal situation in the United
    Parcel Service case (UPS Sans vs. FF Dax alias Barmen). This latter case has already
    been described by me in a 16-page German-language document:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/barmen.pdf\r\n\r\nWhatever
    was said in this document concerning the UPS Sans \"branding\" case also applies
    to the Segoe \"branding\" case so that there is no need to repeat here what was
    said there.\r\n\r\n3) Segoe as EC anti-trust case\r\n\r\nThe legal scenario for
    this case cannot be specified presently, because everything depends on whether
    or not Microsoft will include Segoe into the Windows Vista version distributed
    in future in the European Community.\r\n\r\nMicrosoft as a monopolist has repeatedly
    ignored the European anti-trust laws, notably in the \"500 million Euro fine\"
    case two years ago:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dw-world.de/dw/article/0,2144,1149791,00.html\r\n\r\nFor
    the current EU vs. Microsoft situation see the official website here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.eurunion.org/News/press/2006/20060016.htm\r\n\r\nFrom
    this official website, it becomes apparent that the European Anti-Trust Commission
    does not accept the illegal \"bundling\" behaviour of Microsoft concerning the
    Windows operating system components.\r\n\r\nLet us assume, Microsoft will sell
    Windows Vista \"bundling\" the Frutiger forgery Segoe in Europe, then it is likely
    that the monopolist Microsoft will be forced by the European Commission to \"unbundle\"
    Windows Vista, i.e. to sell it without this forgery, because nobody in Europe
    can be expected to accept forged fonts as part of an operating system, in the
    same way as nobody can be expected to accept forged bank notes as part of the
    monthly salary."
  created: '2006-03-15 14:03:12'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Is Segoe named after Tom Rickner's street?\r\n\r\nJohn, sight unseen, but
    market well know, no one in thier right corporate mind would choose a MS CT font
    for a Corp logo or ID, Should They?!\r\n\r\nBill, I'm not at all hungry for anymore
    monolithic 1-style-fits-all UI faces. \r\n\r\nThis whole issue seems to be a good
    example of the old saying that \"all corruption empowers.\""
  created: '2006-03-15 14:27:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Oh, so you\u2019re saying MS as a whole is terminally sleazy.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're
    putting words in my mouth. Remember, you prefer to argue with a straw dog rather
    than the real thing.\r\n\r\n<em>a party that he feels hurts his bottom line (essentially
    by releasing better fonts)</em>\r\n\r\nLearn to distinguish principle from self-interest.
    I have an issue with font bundling and plagiarism, but that has nothing to do
    with my bottom line (which is just fine thanks), or the quality of the fonts invovled.\r\n\r\n<em>the
    established precedent conveniently doesn\u2019t apply</em>\r\n\r\nSo what you're
    saying is it's OK for Microsoft to play hardball with other people's intellectual
    property, as long as some of their stuff is original? \r\n\r\nIn general, the
    font business' attitude towards intellectual property doesn't earn my respect,
    so I think it's kind of pointless to get on a high horse, when our own house isn't
    in order, as evidenced by the behaviour of our major players.\r\n\r\n<em>You would,
    Nick.</em>\r\n\r\nIn your dreams, Hrant.\r\n\r\n<em>no one in thier right corporate
    mind would choose a MS CT font for a Corp logo or ID</em>\r\n\r\nWearing the same
    colour shirt as everyone else is a quick way to become part of the establishment.
    Or as the saying goes, the nail that stands out is hammered down."
  created: '2006-03-15 16:52:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, you were implying that Zapf and Frutiger\r\nwould refuse to work with
    MS. If that does not\r\nmean there's something inherently wrong with\r\nMS (I
    mean in terms of font development) then\r\nfeel free to explain.\r\n\r\nAnd please
    don't deploy an \"I was jesting\" escape clause this time.\r\n\r\n> Learn to distinguish
    principle from self-interest.\r\n\r\nStop spinning.\r\nAren't you supposed to
    be supporting the young'ns as opposed to Bill's 4?\r\nMy point is in general you
    would be, except you feel MS hurts\r\nyour business - but that connection is opportunistic
    of course.\r\n\r\n> So what you\u2019re saying is it\u2019s OK for Microsoft to
    play hardball\r\n> with other people\u2019s intellectual property, as long as
    some of\r\n> their stuff is original?\r\n\r\n1) Pretty much, but it would have
    to be most (and it is) not just some.\r\n2) Not original, but useful. Making originality
    central is too artsy.\r\n\r\n> I think it\u2019s kind of pointless to get on a
    high horse\r\n\r\n?!\r\n\r\n> In your dreams, Hrant.\r\n\r\nActually, in yours!
    \ :-)\r\nAn average of once a month I reckon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-15 17:07:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, you were implying that Zapf and Frutiger would refuse to work with
    MS</em>\r\n\r\nThe way I heard it, Hermann Zapf quit ATypI because of Book Antiqua,
    the MS face that looks like Palatino. Adrian Frutiger was miffed at Adobe for
    Myriad's resemblance to his eponymous face. There's two type designers that would
    likely decline an invitation to work for MS, don't you think? Maybe there are
    others who, out of sympathy, or on general principle, would also not make a good
    fit with MS -- perhaps the four Bill mentioned, certainly myself.  \r\n\r\n<em>Aren\u2019t
    you supposed to be supporting the young\u2019ns as opposed to Bill\u2019s 4</em>\r\n\r\nI
    support originality and contemporary type designs, regardless of the designer's
    age.\r\n\r\n<em>you feel MS hurts your business </em>\r\n\r\nMy business has never
    been better, and I'm looking forward to expanding into the CE, Greek and Cyrillic
    font market -- which is something that MS is opening up. So why would I think
    MS is hurting my business?"
  created: '2006-03-15 17:59:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> There\u2019s two type designers that would likely decline\r\n> an invitation
    to work for MS, don\u2019t you think?\r\n\r\nZapf: Did you not read what Bill
    wrote above?\r\nFrutiger: Sadly, he has a \"better\" reason not to accept.\r\n\r\nAnd
    what does that have anything to do with CT?!\r\n(See above. And you thought you
    could distract me...)\r\n\r\n> Maybe there are others who, out of sympathy, or
    on\r\n> general principle, would also not make a good fit with\r\n> MS \u2014
    perhaps the four Bill mentioned, certainly myself.\r\n\r\nWrong on both counts.\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, at this rate you're well\r\non the path of a self-fulfilling prophecy...\r\n\r\n>
    I support originality and contemporary type\r\n> designs, regardless of the designer\u2019s
    age.\r\n\r\nSuper.\r\nNow compare the \u0153uvre of the guys who worked on CT
    versus Bill's 4.\r\n\r\n> So why would I think MS is hurting my business?\r\n\r\nNo
    idea. You've only brought it up like a million times.\r\n(I feel an \"I was jesting\"
    coagulating...)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-15 18:09:22'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "from David\r\n\r\n'Is Segoe named after Tom Rickner\u2019s street?'\r\n\r\nNo,
    that is a myth. \r\n\r\n'John, sight unseen, but market well know, no one in thier
    right corporate mind would choose a MS CT font for a Corp logo or ID, Should They?!'\r\n\r\nIs
    what you're really saying here that a typeface is always tarred with its intention?
    I'm expressing it badly, but I get the feeling you're trying to make an important
    point about the depth of study that should (must) go into a successful corporate
    ID process. \r\n\r\n'Bill, I\u2019m not at all hungry for anymore monolithic 1-style-fits-all
    UI faces.'\r\n\r\nOK. After - how many is it now? literally half a million glyphs?
    after so many, you're entitled to say, Enough! You earned the right. But would
    you also decline the opportunity to design a corporate ID for MS? Wouldn't that
    be an interesting enough challenge? On the other hand, it would be a very muddy
    issue if the brief were to devise both a corporate ID and a UI. That seems to
    me insane, something only either a clueless executive could dream up - - or is
    it in reality a brilliant requirement? \r\n\r\n'This whole issue seems to be a
    good example of the old saying that \u201Call corruption empowers.\u201D'\r\n\r\nI
    blush to say I never heard that one, but I really like it. \r\n\r\nBy the way,
    to set the record straight. Segoe is named after Bill Davis's great-great-grandmother,
    Amalie von und zu Segoe, who was the cousin of Gr\xE4fin Sophie zu [but not von]
    Segoe, familiar to type historians for her role in preserving the Auerbach matrices
    in the cellar of her manse during the Franco-Prussian war. This information is
    well known to <em>anyone</em> who has perused the pages of the Almanach de Thypa
    of 1894. There is a copy at Yale.\r\n\r\nBack to the topic, I really like the
    way Nick is trying to express, through the static, the fundamental point that
    type is intellectual property to be respected. When put this way, it seems so
    utterly shocking that it's the American habit not to respect it. I like too Uli's
    expression of the old world attitude: 'nobody in Europe can be expected to accept
    forged fonts as part of an operating system, in the same way as nobody can be
    expected to accept forged bank notes as part of the monthly salary.'\r\n\r\nWhen
    you think about it, there is nothing more painful than for a type designer to
    be told, after years of work on something - - 'this is not yours, it is mine'.
    It is an issue that must be addressed. And I think we are, slowly, seeing it be
    addressed. The attention Matthew Carter got in the New Yorker is one example.
    The attention that Segoe is getting is another. Something is shifting in the wind. "
  created: '2006-03-15 18:19:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> would you also decline the opportunity to design a corporate ID for MS?\r\n\r\nSort
    of pre-emptively, sorry:\r\nWasn't it FB that worked with Brody on Macromedia's
    ID?\r\nYou know, the guys whose software not only ignores embedding\r\nrestrictions
    but actually [internally] converts the outlines?\r\nWas that unethical of FB?
    Well of course friggin' not.\r\n\r\n> The attention Matthew Carter got in the
    New Yorker is one example.\r\n\r\nPlease elaborate.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-15 18:42:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Zapf: Did you not read what Bill wrote above?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, but I have
    now. \r\nIt's sad what he says, about how people end up making the \"deal with
    the devil\".\r\n\r\n<em>You\u2019ve only brought it up like a million times.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    you still don't get it. \r\n\r\n<em> Wrong on both counts. </em>\r\n\r\nOn the
    first, apparently, but somehow I don't see myself being approached by Microsoft
    with a design commission, or accepting the terms.\r\n\r\n<em>Which way was it
    for you, Nick?</em>\r\n\r\nThe original Fontesque sketches were done in a couple
    of minutes, but it was a lot of manual work scanning and tracing, then giving
    the fonts typographic colour. My first foray in Fontographer, learning the software
    at the same time. And it has a proper italic, -- I recall days spent trying to
    draw the italic \"g\" before ending up basing it on transformations of the roman
    g. That was 1993, a lot of type designers' first digital fonts were \"informal\".
    A few years later, techno, that was way less work."
  created: '2006-03-15 19:15:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill:<em>Nick, you raise some good points which I would like to address.
    You suggest that the old guys may have been invited to participate in the CT project
    but declined on political grounds. That is not the case, I happen to know. None
    of them was asked ... To continue with your train of speculation, since the \u2018Four
    Kings\u2019 weren\u2019t asked, we can\u2019t know how they would have responded.</em>\r\n\r\nBy
    'Four Kings' I presume you mean the quadrumvirate you referred to above: Unger,
    Carter, Berlow, Stone. Don't forget that Matthew was very much involved in the
    CT project, designing the western companion forms to the Meiryo typeface. This
    is an impressive example of the importance of quite subtle changes to an existing
    design (Verdana) in harmonising with another script, and bears study, as I found
    when I prepared some comparison visuals for Margaret Re to use in her retrospective
    lecture on Matthew's work at the ATypI conference last year."
  created: '2006-03-16 01:57:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>John, sight unseen, but market well know, no one in thier right
    corporate mind would choose a MS CT font for a Corp logo or ID, Should They?!</em>\r\n\r\nNot
    in its CT-optimised form, perhaps, but I was thinking in terms of adjustment of
    the design to appropriate weight and proportion. But this relates to the already
    odd situation of Segoe doing double-duty as a UI and corporate ID face.\r\n\r\nI've
    been using Corbel as a UI font for over a year, and despite not being designed
    specifically for that purpose it performs very well. It wouldn't take much to
    optimise the design for such a purpose, and I doubt if there would be much to
    recommend Segoe UI over it.\r\n\r\nWould Corbel do as well as Segoe as a corporate
    branding font (and bearing in mind that this is the whole of the question, not
    whether Segoe is a good choice itself)? It at least has the benefit of not being
    a Frutiger clone, and being well outside the similar genre employed by Apple."
  created: '2006-03-16 02:14:10'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Hrant has drawn to my attention that the following paragraph may convey a
    message very different from what I meant:\r\n\r\n'When you think about it, there
    is nothing more painful than for a type designer to be told, after years of work
    on something - - \u2018this is not yours, it is mine\u2019. It is an issue that
    must be addressed. And I think we are, slowly, seeing it be addressed. The attention
    Matthew Carter got in the New Yorker is one example. The attention that Segoe
    is getting is another. Something is shifting in the wind.'\r\n\r\nWhat I meant
    is that one of the good things that is happening today is the positive attention
    that MC got in the New Yorker profile. Equally valuable, I think, is the negative
    attention that the Segoe forgery (to use Uli's uncomfortable but apparently absolutely
    accurate terminology) is getting. Both increase the public's awareness that type
    is valuable intellectual property which a few people really do try to make a living
    from. It is not something that magically appears from nothing, as a gift from
    history. Probably the type industry has been guilty of an enormous amount of negligence
    in failing to educate the public about the difficulties of making digital type
    today, about the enormous strides that have been made, and more importantly, about
    the enormous strides the <em>remain</em> to be made. It's elementary marketing
    psychology: once you give people the feeling they ought to have something they
    don't have or that doesn't yet exist but may in the future, they want it. You're
    educating them into an expectation. From this point of view - basic customer education
    - the marketing of type in the US over the past twenty years has been unbearably
    inept. \r\n\r\nAnyway, Hrant feels that I was implying that there was something
    negative in MC's profile. Of course there isn't and I don't want anyone to think
    I was hinting at that. I think we are all unreservedly thrilled that Carter is
    getting this well-deserved attention. \r\n\r\nJohn, of course I knew quite well
    that the redesign of the Meiryo variant of Verdana was part of CT2 but I didn't
    count it as it was after all just a redesign of perhaps the most well-known constituent
    of CT1. However, you are right to remind people of this for the record. I think
    we would all be interested to hear more from you on the differences you speak
    of and would be grateful to have you post something about it, if you have the
    energy to start a new thread. \r\n\r\nI have one more off-topic question for Nick.
    OK. Fontesque was an easy birth and a slightly more difficult upbringing, but
    not too bad. But you were already a fairly experienced graphic artist at that
    point, weren't you? My last question then, would be, to what extent did years
    of previous training and work make it possible for it all to come out relatively
    fluently? Or was it just a kind of effortless gift? \r\n\r\nOh and finally, John,
    I don't think that it's very rigorous to argue that Corbel would suit MS as a
    corporate ID font on the grounds that at the very least, it isn't a Frutiger clone.
    I would have thought that a corporate ID font should be designed or chosen with
    a really thoughtful insight into what a company is and what it wants to convey.
    But then, in a perverse way, Segoe does penetrate to the historical soul of MS,
    doesn't it? Didn't Microsoft start out roughly as follows? IBM needed an OS for
    the 8088-based PC. So MS bought Seattle Computer's clone of Digital Research's
    CP/M (the standard for 8080-based pre-IBM PCs) for $25,000. Of course, as is well
    known, the only reason DR lost out to MS was that DR's founder kept IBM's executives
    waiting for so many hours they were literally forced into MS's arms . . . . Anyway,
    buying a clone is nothing new for MS. On the other hand, perhaps buying a forgery
    is? It will be interesting to see how this all pans out. \r\n\r\nMicrosoft seems
    to have some real difficulty dealing with the EU. Indeed, MS's difficulty in grasping
    the EU rather reminds me of IBM's difficulty in grasping Microsoft. IBM simply
    didn't have a clue, and one really must give MS credit for screwing those clueless
    suits again and again and again. Now, with the EU, you get the feeling that it's
    MS which has turned into the clueless suits. Uli keeps on harping on MS's status
    as a monopolist. And that of course is what IBM was so often accused of before
    Microsoft defanged it. Let us please remember that Microsoft deserves the credit
    for this historic deed! \r\n\r\nOf course it is unhealthy and ultimately deadly
    to progress for any company to enjoy a monopoly. But there is also a simple reality
    here: most of the world does not want to live with 30 different OSs, 3000 incompatible
    productivity apps with incompatible formats, and more incompatible documents than
    anyone could count this little world over. \r\n\r\nApologies for this overlong
    rant. I must really not want to work on my font this week."
  created: '2006-03-16 06:30:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>to what extent did years of previous training and work make it possible
    for it all to come out relatively fluently?</em>\r\n\r\nI was originally a fine
    artist, though more of a print-maker than a painter. I'm self-taught as a typographer
    (no training), although I did take a course in calligraphy. I worked as an art
    director from 1977, doing marker comps of headline type for hours every day until
    the Mac obviated that (for me) in 1988, so type drawing fluency was well practised.
    Also by the time I did Fontesque, I had been using Illustrator for 5 years, so
    I was familiar with BCPs. Having said that, I think a lot of type designers have
    a \"natural\" casual script typeface within themself -- I was fortunate that mine
    came out in 1994."
  created: '2006-03-16 19:40:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Oh and finally, John, I don\u2019t think that it\u2019s very rigorous
    to argue that Corbel would suit MS as a corporate ID font on the grounds that
    at the very least, it isn\u2019t a Frutiger clone. I would have thought that a
    corporate ID font should be designed or chosen with a really thoughtful insight
    into what a company is and what it wants to convey.</em>\r\n\r\nI was making the
    comment in the context of MS already using the same typeface for a UI font and
    a corporate marketing font. My point was that Corbel, with appropriate tweaking,
    could perform either role as well as or better than Segoe performs them. This
    is why I said that was the whole of the question in terms of comparing the two
    faces. Obviously there is another question about the appropriateness of either
    as a corporate branding type for Microsoft.\r\n\r\nPerhaps I should have limited
    my initial comment to the worthiness of Corbel as a UI font, which is actually
    the more interesting case. As I say, I've been using it as a UI font for many
    months, and think it works very well (mind you, my screen has a higher than average
    resolution)."
  created: '2006-03-16 20:34:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> my screen has a higher than average resolution\r\n\r\nWay.\r\nAnd that
    dampens two of CT's three main faults.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-16 20:37:19'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "I compared some old and new font files of the Frutiger forgery Segoe, some
    with faked Monotype \"copyright\" notices and some with faked Microsoft \"copyright\"
    notices.\r\n\r\nThe \"creation dates\" in the font header are apparently faked
    too, and in some files intentionally erased (\"null\" entry, \"before\" 1970).
    The faked creation dates range from 1997 through 2005.\r\n\r\nIn case that creation
    year \"1997\" is not a fake, then Monotype at first made a forgery of the old
    Frutiger, and later, after publication of Frutiger Next, either Monotype or Microsoft
    made again a font forgery, but now of the new Frutiger."
  created: '2006-03-17 18:24:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Uli, creation dates are notoriously unreliable indicators. They vary in accuracy
    depending on both the tool used and the attention of the manufacturer. And what
    is the creation date? The date on which the font source file was first created?
    The date on which the first shipping version was produced? People interpret it
    differently, and some people pretty much ignore it. The existence of fonts with
    older creation dates does not indicate much at all. I've seen fonts made last
    year that claim to have been made in 1969, because they were made with a tool
    that had a default setting for 1969 that needed to be changed by the font developer.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    in reference to the pre-Microsoft history of Segoe, <a fef=\"http://blogs.msdn.com/jensenh/archive/2005/11/28/497441.aspx\">this
    comment</a> from Si Daniels at MST is worth rereading:\r\n\r\n<em>'The original
    Segoe fonts were not created for or by Microsoft. It was an existing Monotype
    design which we licensed and extensively extended and customized to meet the requirements
    of different processes, apps and devices.'</em>\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nBy the wyay, forgery
    seems an inappropriate term to this English speaker, because it usually implies
    something fake passed off as something real, i.e. something not Frutiger passed
    off as Frutiger. In this case, we have something like Frutiger claimed as not
    Frutiger. If an intentional copy, it would be an example of plagiarism not forgery."
  created: '2006-03-17 20:34:27'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>By the way, to set the record straight. Segoe is named after Bill Davis\u2019s
    great-great-grandmother, Amalie von und zu Segoe, who was the cousin of Gr\xE4fin
    Sophie zu [but not von] Segoe, familiar to type historians for her role in preserving
    the Auerbach matrices in the cellar of her manse during the Franco-Prussian war.
    This information is well known to anyone who has perused the pages of the Almanach
    de Thypa of 1894. There is a copy at Yale.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's hilarious, Bill.
    I think you should write a history of German typography in this manner.\r\n\r\nSegoe
    is actually named, indirectly, for Ladislas Segoe (1894-1983), an important figure
    in mid-century American urban planning who largely defined the role of urban planner
    as it is practised today (see. 'Ladislas Segoe and the Emergence of the Professional
    Planning Consultant' in the <em>Journal Of Planning History</em>, 2003, VOL 2;
    PART 1, pages 47-78). He is primarily associated with the city of Cincinatti,
    but also contributed to the planning of Madison Wisconsin, where there is indeed
    a road named after him on which Tom Rickner may or may not live."
  created: '2006-03-17 21:00:49'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> By the wyay, forgery seems an inappropriate term to this English speaker,\r\n>
    because it usually implies something fake passed off as something real,\r\n> i.e.
    something not Frutiger passed off as Frutiger. In this case, we have\r\n> something
    like Frutiger claimed as not Frutiger. If an intentional copy,\r\n> it would be
    an example of plagiarism not forgery.\r\n\r\nThank you for your explanations.\r\n\r\nThe
    term \"forgery\" as it is use by me is a legal term in (German) law books defined
    as follows:\r\n\r\n\"forgery\" = \"a copy made in order to deceive\"\r\n\r\n-
    As a first step, a copy (or imitation or replica or clone) is made.\r\n- As a
    second step, an act of deception (or of fraud) takes place.\r\n\r\nYour description
    \"we have something like Frutiger claimed as not Frutiger\" exactly fits my definition:\r\n\r\n-
    \"something like Frutiger\" is the \"copy\" of Frutiger.\r\n- \"claimed as not
    Frutiger\" is the \"deception\".\r\n\r\nToday, I perused the German book \"Schriftstatistik\"
    (Typeface Statistics) by Peter Karow published in Hamburg in 1992. On page 25
    of his book, Peter Karow publicly declared that he made a copy (or clone or reproduction)
    of the font \"Frutiger\" and labeled it \"Frutus\". Thereafter I looked up the
    1000-page manual to Peter Karow's \"TypeWorks\" collection, wherein he publicly
    declared in the preface that his copy or his clone \"Frutus\" is the font \"Frutiger\".
    Therefore no deception took place, because here we do not have \"something like
    Frutiger claimed as not Frutiger\", but on the contrary Peter Karow claimed that
    \"Frutus\" is \"Frutiger\", i.e. a copy or clone of \"Frutiger\". Therefore, \"Frutus\"
    is not a forgery, because Karow did not deceive anybody concerning his copy or
    clone \"Frutus\". We may describe Peter Karow as a \"copyist\" or as a \"cloner\",
    but not as a \"forger\".\r\n\r\nNow let us compare Peter Karow to the forgers
    at Monotype and Microsoft. Did Steve Matteson at Monotype or Simon Daniels at
    Microsoft publicly and frankly declare that \"Segoe\" is a copy or a clone of
    \"Frutiger\"? No, they did not. On the contrary, they deceived Windows users concerning
    Segoe. For instance, the font forger Steve Matteson declares at his website\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ascendercorp.com/portfolio_custom.html\r\n\r\nthe
    following: \"Segoe is Microsoft's new branding typeface... Steve Matteson started
    this project...\". No mention of Frutiger, see? That is why \"Segoe\" is a forgery."
  created: '2006-03-17 22:37:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201Ca copy made in order to deceive\u201D\r\n\r\nBut it wasn't. It was
    in order to save money.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-17 22:40:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: If Quark can change its logo, maybe Microsoft could follow up on John's idea,
    ditch Segoe, and switch to its own Corbel.
  created: '2006-03-17 23:44:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: If Quark can change its logo, maybe Microsoft could follow up on John's idea,
    ditch Segoe, and switch to its own Corbel.
  created: '2006-03-17 23:44:33'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The term \u201Cforgery\u201D as it is use by me is a legal term in (German)
    law books defined as follows: \u201Cforgery\u201D = \u201Ca copy made in order
    to deceive\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nBut you are translating this German legal definition
    into English and using the term in an English-language discussion in an English-language
    forum, and I think in this context the normal English usage of the term has to
    be acknowledged. Art or literary forgery provides the typical model: a copy (or
    work in a recognisable style) passed off as an original of the copied artist.
    Copying something and passing it off as your own invention is not usually called
    forgery: it is called plagiarism."
  created: '2006-03-18 01:23:52'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Thank you John for your remarks on the Almanach. I wonder if Uli caught the
    rather cheesy reference to Faust? Albert de Frayne, a Monegasque chess player
    of great talent and undeserved obscurity who lurks here but sometimes corresponds
    with me privately, was completely deceived. \r\n\r\nNow to our vocabulary:\r\n\r\n'Copying
    something and passing it off as your own invention is not usually called forgery:
    it is called plagiarism.'\r\n\r\nWhich of course is not often considered an indictable
    offense, though it is frightfully bad manners. Good try, John! (In England, Uli,
    plagiarists are sometimes sent to Coventry, and if you know that expression, now
    verging on the archaic, your English is superb. I imagine most reasonably well-educated
    Americans are unfamiliar with it.)\r\n\r\nHowever, John, I think you are spinning
    the English definition too far away from OED: <em>The making of a thing in fraudulent
    imitation of something; also, esp. the forging, counterfeiting, or falsifying
    of a document.</em>\r\n\r\nThe making of a thing in fraudulent imitation of something
    - that seems just about to fit the case of Segoe, and it is the primary sense
    of the word; the sense you and I use most comfortably is secondary though not
    secondary enough to be considered distinct. I admit that I too was uncomfortable
    with 'forgery' at first. But I now accept that was only because I didn't know
    what the word meant. It's very trying for a competent English writer to be corrected
    on a simple word usage by a German, but one sometimes has to submit to these indignities
    with as much grace as one can summon. \r\n\r\nYes, we all mostly know a popular,
    common sense of the word, which we often apply to paintings and documents. But
    that is not the exclusive sense. The larger sense in OED seems to fit this crime
    perfectly, and I can't think of a better term in English. \r\n\r\n'fraudulent
    imitation' is the key basic sense we have to grasp here. \r\n\r\nWhat does fraud
    mean? Again, in OED, the key sense is 'Criminal deception; the using of false
    representations to obtain an unjust advantage or to injure the rights or interests
    of another.'\r\n\r\nThat is absolutely on target here. Microsoft falsely represented
    to the EU that Segoe was an original typeface. It was indisputably their intention
    to injure the rights and interests of Linotype and Frutiger by doing so. I can't
    see any way round that.\r\n\r\n'Imitate' is too richly defined to quote here,
    but some key extracts are, 'to mimic, counterfeit', 'to copy, reproduce'. \r\n\r\nSo:
    I accept 'fraudulent imitation' as an exact description of Segoe. \r\n\r\nIn that
    case, why not accept 'forgery' since that is exactly what 'fraudulent imitation'
    means? \r\n\r\nThat fraud was intended, and achieved here, cannot I think be gainsaid,
    can it? \r\n\r\nOver the weekend I'm going to try and run the whole question by
    a couple of senior American federal judges I know; it will be interesting to see
    if they can provide any additional illumination. That's always supposing I can
    get them to understand what a digital typeface actually is. They are both getting
    on in years. But one is a real expert in derivative artworks, so his opinion should
    be worth having if he will give it. "
  created: '2006-03-18 03:40:27'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Nick, thanks for your further comments about Fontesque, which I think is
    one of the finest of all fantasy fonts, as one might call them. What you say confirms
    my feeling that it had to have come out of some substantial backlog of skill and
    experience. I apparently fibbed, by the way, when I said somewhere that I had
    written about it in the mid-90s. I looked through all my files and saw that though
    it was illustrated and captioned in a story I did on FontFonts for Publish or
    DTPJournal, or something like that, there wasn''t enough room to actually say
    anything about it. Of course the story could have been changed at some point,
    and I don''t have a print copy anymore. Oh let me stop blathering, nothing I wrote
    about fonts in the mid-90s is worth the bandwidth even at today''s prices. '
  created: '2006-03-18 03:48:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>In that case, why not accept \u2018forgery\u2019 since that is exactly
    what \u2018fraudulent imitation\u2019 means?</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, the usual model
    of fraudulent imitation in a case of forgery is the passing off of the imitation
    as the original that it imitates, and that is what most people will think of when
    they hear the word forgery. In this case, the apparent imitation is being passed
    off as <em>not</em> the original that it imitates, for which we have the very
    serviceable term plagiarism. Plagiarism is not in itself an indictable offence,
    as you note, but individual cases of plagiarism may certainly constitute fraud.\r\n\r\nBoth
    Linotype and Microsoft are my clients, so I'm not inspired to get into a discussion
    about intentions. Sorry. I have been frank all along, though, to anyone who cared
    to ask, that I believe Segoe to be too close to Frutiger. Even cutting Monotype
    the maximum slack and imagining that they could have produced this design without
    deliberately referencing Frutiger and Frutiger Next, the result is unacceptably
    close. Stupidly so, in fact, and I'm amazed anyone thought it was a good idea
    to license it. Even with the best of intentions to produce a new design in this
    style, I think that this subgenre of humanist sans serifs is too narrow a field
    to support much more than already exists without the whiff of plagiarism: between
    them, Frutiger, Myriad and Stone Sans have pretty much covered all the bases."
  created: '2006-03-18 05:30:41'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Copying something and passing it off as your own invention\r\n> is not
    usually called forgery: it is called plagiarism.\r\n\r\nSince my \"Font Forging
    Industry\" website (http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers) is visited daily by hundreds
    of visitors from all over the world, I selected the very broad generic legal term
    \"forgery\", because I could not find a better generic legal term which could
    be understood by visitors from Netherlands, Brazil, Italy, Canada, Romania etc.
    (just to quote a few countries from my today's website statistics), who live in
    different countries with different laws. Of course, in my German-language documents
    on the \"Font Forging Industry\", I use other very special German legal terms,
    but these much more specialized German legal terms cannot be generalized for all
    other countries.\r\n\r\nThe term \"plagiarism\" (in German and in French: \"Plagiat\")
    suggested by Mr. Hudson has the disadvantage that it is a term, which does not
    occur in the laws of the countries which I know. For instance, \"plagiarism\"
    does not occur in German laws, nor does \"plagiarism\" occur in the American nor
    in the British nor in the French copyright act. For instance, when you download
    the entire \"Copyright Law of the United States\" contained in the PDF file\r\n\r\nhttp://www.copyright.gov/title17/circ92.pdf\r\n\r\nand
    when you, after downloading, search via Adobe Acrobat for the term \"plagiarism\"
    in this PDF file, you will not find any occurrence of this term \"plagiarism\".
    I also checked the British \"Copyright, Designs and Patents Act\" and also checked
    the French copyright code, and as regards Germany, I can say with conviction that
    the term \"Plagiat\" is never used in any of the many German civil and penal laws.\r\n\r\nThe
    term \"plagiarism\" is a literary term, which may be used in the New York Times
    Literary Supplement, but it is not a legal term, because it does not occur in
    American laws and hence does not have a legal definition."
  created: '2006-03-18 09:03:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, aren't we glad Typophile isn't a court of law!\r\n\r\n> http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers\r\n\r\nSo
    what's that word in \"Barmen - Sari - Dax - UPS Sans -Wer plagiierte was?\"\r\n\r\n>
    None of the notorious forgers ever dared to sue me, because I describe the facts.\r\n\r\nIt
    might actually have more to do with you not being in the US.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-18 10:19:32'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "1)\r\n\r\n> So what\u2019s that word in \u201CBarmen - Sari - Dax - UPS Sans
    -Wer plagiierte was?\u201D\r\n\r\nI explained on page 8 of above file www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/barmen.pdf\r\n\r\n\"Abschlie\xDFend
    sei bemerkt, da\xDF ich auf eine rechtliche Beurteilung des Falls verzichtet habe,
    weil ich den Wortlaut des Vergleichs nicht kenne. Die Begriffe \"Plagiat\" und
    \"Selbstplagiat\" habe ich nur im metaphorischen Sinne verwendet, denn erstens
    ist dem deutschen Urheberrechtsgesetz der Begriff des Plagiats fremd, und zweitens
    sind Fonts ohnehin nicht urheberrechtlich gesch\xFCtzt...\"\r\n\r\n2)\r\n\r\n>
    It might actually have more to do with you not being in the US.\r\n\r\nMost companies
    at least have subsidiaries in Germany  (Adobe, Microsoft, UPS etc.) or even have
    their headquarters in Germany (e.g. Linotype, FontShop etc.). An exception for
    example is Monotype which no longer exists in Germany due to bankruptcy."
  created: '2006-03-18 11:45:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "John:\r\n\"Not in its CT-optimised form, perhaps, but I was thinking in terms
    of adjustment of the design to appropriate weight and proportion.\"\r\nCan that
    be done? Are there variations of these fonts? or are you talking about the original
    designers making variations and licensing them to other Corporations? Is that
    possible with the CT fonts or the Segoe font?\r\n\r\nThe other thing I'd like
    to say without intending to be obnoxious, judgemental or demeaning, and that is
    that at some point a type design becomes so bland, vanilla, average-looking, and
    otherwise completely undistinguished, that there are plenty of other fonts that
    it is going to look a lot like for the simple reason that so many people want
    this kind of disappearing type. There is no space to invent because invention
    is not important.\r\n\r\nWhat's any law gonna do about it?"
  created: '2006-03-18 12:57:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201CAbschlie\xDFend sei bemerkt ...\r\n\r\nEnglish? (Or French, Spanish,
    Arabic or Armenian?)\r\n\r\n> Most companies at least have subsidiaries\r\n\r\nYou
    missed my point.\r\nOver here you don't need to break a law\r\nto get sued, you
    just need to be poorer.\r\n\r\n> What\u2019s any law gonna do about it?\r\n\r\nFor
    that you'd need a king.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-18 14:24:28'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Well, John, certainly the two OED2 definitions of plagiarism, \r\n\r\n1.
    ... the wrongful appropriation or purloining, and publication as one\u2019s own,
    of the ideas, or the expression of the ideas (literary, artistic, musical, mechanical,
    etc.) of another.\r\n\r\nand \r\n\r\n2. A purloined idea, design, passage, or
    work.\r\n\r\nalso fit the bill nicely. \r\n\r\nSo having exhausted our literary
    and amateur legal resources, I think it is time for some expert legal opinion.
    I realise that by now you probably consider yourself an expert in the field, but
    lawyers, especially judges, often hold rather shockingly different opinions from
    the rest of us. \r\n\r\nYou are not exaggerating when you say that you have always
    been disclosive about the Segoe matter, going back about two years to when the
    story first broke. Recklessly so, was the opinion in high places. I find that
    interesting. "
  created: '2006-03-18 18:29:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>or are you talking about the original designers making variations
    and licensing them to other Corporations? Is that possible with the CT fonts or
    the Segoe font?</em>\r\n\r\nThe Segoe font is Monotype's and I don't know what
    licensing arrangement they have with Microsoft.\r\n\r\nThe CT fonts belong to
    Microsoft, so no I was not talking about the original designers licensing variations
    of these to <em>other corportations.</em> I was talking about Microsoft commissioning
    a variation of e.g. Corbel optimised for additional functions such as a being
    UI font or for use in corporate branding. They own the original font outright,
    so can do with it what they like."
  created: '2006-03-18 22:39:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I realise that by now you probably consider yourself an expert in the
    field, but lawyers, especially judges, often hold rather shockingly different
    opinions from the rest of us.</em>\r\n\r\nI certainly don't consider myself an
    expert in any kind of law. I generally avoid legal discussions precisely because
    I don't think one can make reliable statements, for the reasons you cite. This
    is part of the reason why I queried the term forgery. Uli explains that he has
    deliberately chosen this word because of its legal meaning in various countries;
    that is, he has sought out a word with legal implications to make, I presume,
    the point that he considers the actions of various companies to be <em>illegal.</em>
    That's his prerogative, but to me it looks like begging the question: by describing
    the actions as forgery, he is making a legal judgement on the action and, as you
    point out, matters of law should be argued by lawyers and decided by judges. Uli
    chooses a word <em>because it has legal implications</em>, whereas I choose a
    word that, as you note from the OED, 'fits the bill nicely', but does not necessarily
    have legal implications. A difference in personality, I suspect, as much as anything
    else.\r\n\r\nA legal process is already underway regarding Segoe, and I think
    Linotype are right to take a stand on this. Over the years, Linotype seems to
    have been the victim of more acts of font plagiarism than any other foundry, and
    certainly of more blatant and financially significant plagiarism, with Bitstream
    and Monotype being the worst culprits. Microsoft's primary fault in all this is
    trusting Monotype to provide original designs. I think the trouble is that by
    the time these kind of things come to the attention of people who can address
    them, a massive software product like Vista is in code lock down, with UI font
    dependencies embedded in the system. At that stage, the cost of removing a font
    becomes prohibitively high.\r\n\r\nThe obvious solution is to do a better job
    on examining the originality and provenance of fonts at the licensing stage. This
    means having, for instance, a panel of knowledgeable and experienced people who
    can review proposed typefaces and advise if they are uncomfortably close to other
    designs.\r\n\r\n<em>Recklessly so, was the opinion in high places.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    wasn't aware that there were any high places left. :)"
  created: '2006-03-18 23:19:35'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'The obvious solution is to do a better job on examining the originality
    and provenance of fonts at the licensing stage. This means having, for instance,
    a panel of knowledgeable and experienced people who can review proposed typefaces
    and advise if they are uncomfortably close to other designs.'\r\n\r\nSomething
    like the Morisawa? "
  created: '2006-03-19 05:33:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Something like the Morisawa?</em>\r\n\r\nEr, no, it would have to be
    a group of people who would recognise a Lexicon clone. :)\r\n\r\nMorisawa is a
    competition, and the judging of a large number of entries takes place in a short
    period of time, in conditions of at least semi-secrecy regarding the identity
    of the submitted designs and their creators. What I'm talking about is a process
    of examination of individual designs that a company is considering licensing,
    with reference to outside experts as necessary, capable of judging whether a design
    is sufficiently original or otherwise kosher (e.g. appropriately licensed, public
    domain, etc.) It's a process that could take several days, involving research,
    detailed comparisons, and submission of a written report and recommendations.\r\n\r\nI'm
    very much of the opinion that one of the ways to stop people doing the wrong thing
    is to make it easier for them to do the right thing. If the problem is a software
    company licensing typeface designs that are too similar to existing designs from
    other parties -- <em>regardless of  the intent or deliberativeness</em> -- then
    I want to ask what process would prevent that from happening."
  created: '2006-03-19 07:50:42'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I have stated here and elsewhere in the past how much I dislike the Segoe
    project \u2014 I do consider it a knock-off of Frutiger, unlike Myriad, which
    I think really is sufficiently different, especially in the bolder styles. What
    I find amazing though is that when we talk about Segoe UI, we talk about a font
    that will be shown in screen sizes of no more than 20 ppm tops (typically even
    much less). Can one really argue that at those small sizes, a typeface is a knock-off
    of something else? Just wondering...\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-03-19 13:57:30'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "I wonder who made the earliest Frutiger forgeries.\r\n\r\nMy guess for the
    photo-composition era is the forgery \"Frontiera\" made by the bankrupt Compugraphic
    corporation, but I do not know in which year \"CG Frontiera\" was published.\r\n\r\nMy
    guess for the digital era is the forgery \"Quebec\" by Walter Florenz Brendel,
    who is said to have been one of the first users of the Ikarus system in the 1970s.
    Brendel, who died in 1992, was an economical font forger who used to forge only
    three or four letters per font. See http://www.sanskritweb.net/temporary/quebec.pdf"
  created: '2006-03-19 17:49:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>what process would prevent that from happening.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't think
    you need a panel of experts.\r\nJust hire a designer with a reputation based on
    designing original typefaces.\r\nStipulate a contract with the usual legalese
    about the designer guaranteeing that there is no infringement of third party's
    intellectual property rights.\r\nThen post the resulting prototype on Typophile.\r\n\r\nAnother
    way would be for the client to provide the designer with a \"hermetic' room to
    work in, with a detached computer and no font files -- ie no reference material,
    and say, \"come up with some designs\". \r\n\r\nBecause if you were to ask a group
    of any type designers to recreate the Frutiger typeface (from memory), with no
    reference material, the results would all be different. Even Adrian Frutiger would
    come up with something different. "
  created: '2006-03-19 19:00:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Just hire a designer with a reputation based on designing original typefaces.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    a good start, although originality is only one of the requirements that need to
    be met.\r\n\r\n<em>Then post the resulting prototype on Typophile.</em>\r\n\r\nCompanies
    investing in custom typefaces for unannounced products are not going to show those
    typefaces off in public. Generally speaking, the non-disclosure agreements under
    which one does this kind of work won't even allow the designer to discuss the
    project until after it is released.\r\n\r\nI'm looking for practical ways for
    companies to avoid things like the Frutiger/Segoe controversy, and practical means
    that they have to be acceptable to those companies and their ways of working."
  created: '2006-03-19 21:28:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Can one really argue that at those small sizes, a typeface is a knock-off
    of something else?</em>\r\n\r\nWith ClearType or without ClearType? :)\r\n\r\nThe
    small size bitmaps are a product of the outline font and its hinting, so even
    if the bitmaps themselves are not considered knock-offs, they are a product of
    an outline font that may be. If MS had made a bitmap font, I doubt there would
    be this kind of controversy, even if the bitmaps were identical to those generated
    by an existing TT version of Frutiger (such as that made for MS's eBook reader).\r\n\r\nIn
    the case of Segoe, though, the project includes not only the UI fonts but also
    the use of the design in MS corporate branding. So clearly this typeface is not
    only going to be seen at 20ppm or less. Indeed, I first saw it in banners at about
    600pt."
  created: '2006-03-19 21:38:22'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "John: <em>I\u2019m looking for practical ways for companies to avoid things
    like the Frutiger/Segoe controversy, and practical means that they have to be
    acceptable to those companies and their ways of working.</em>\r\n\r\nIn this case,
    I believe that there are enough qualified people inside Microsoft that could state
    the obvious \u2014 Segoe resembles Frutiger \u2014 if they were consulted (assuming
    they were not), and this whole thing would never happen.\r\n\r\nOne sad thing
    about this story is that people's names get indirectly linked to this issue, and
    are assumed to be associated with the crucial decisions behind the process, when
    in fact they might even be against it."
  created: '2006-03-19 22:47:17'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "For those who cannot read German, I should like to mention that the German
    Erik Faulhaber, who was an apprentice at the Linotype Library GmbH, claims to
    be the designer of \"Frutiger Next\". At his http://www.erikfaulhaber.de Mr. Faulhaber
    declares under the header \"Typedesign: Frutiger Next\":\r\n\r\n\"Revision and
    completely new conception of the Frutiger typeface family. 18 font weights commissioned
    by the Linotype Library\" (in German: \"\xDCberarbeitung der Schriftfamilie Frutiger
    mit komplett neuer Konzeption. 18 Schnitte im Auftrag der Linotype Library\")\r\n\r\nMr.
    Bruno Steinert contests that the apprentice Mr. Faulhaber was the designer of
    \"Frutiger Next\". See Mr. Steinert's statement at the end of Mr. Faulhaber's
    German interview at http://www.typeforum.de/news_254.htm\r\n\r\nIn order to describe
    this bizarre Faulhaber case, may we use the term \"plagiarism\", or is the term
    \"imposture\" more appropriate?"
  created: '2006-03-19 23:48:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>In this case, I believe that there are enough qualified people inside
    Microsoft that could state the obvious \u2014 Segoe resembles Frutiger \u2014
    if they were consulted (assuming they were not), and this whole thing would never
    happen.</em>\r\n\r\nYes.\r\n\r\nAlso, when Nick wrote 'I don\u2019t think you
    need a panel of experts', I should have responded immediately that I'm not talkimg
    about a panel of <em>experts</em> per se. Indeed, a process that relies on individual
    expertise is generally not a robust process. What is important is a process of
    review, of exploration, consideration and recommendation. Consultation with experts
    might form part of the process especially, for instance, where non-Latin fonts
    are concerned where the provenance of designs can be quite, um, complicated. But
    the process shouldn't rely on experts. For most cases, all you need is decent
    research skills and a reasonable amount of time. Cases like Segoe would be the
    easy ones, where the resemblance is obvious to anyone whose been typographically
    awake for the past thirty years. Determining whether, for instance, a Bengali
    typeface is or is not a clone of another is much trickier and needs forensic examination
    by an expert.\r\n\r\n<em>One sad thing about this story is that people\u2019s
    names get indirectly linked to this issue, and are assumed to be associated with
    the crucial decisions behind the process, when in fact they might even be against
    it.</em>\r\n\r\nIndeed. I was trying to find the right words to make this very
    point, Miguel. One shouldn't assume that everyone as Microsoft thought that Segoe
    was a good idea."
  created: '2006-03-20 02:39:55'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\r\nJohn, \r\n\r\nI know that the entire Segoe family includes branding fonts.
    In the graphics shown at http://www.microsoft.com/ or in the Microsoft printed
    ads, the typeface surely does look a bit like Frutiger. But I was specifically
    wondering about Segoe UI. \r\n\r\nUli, \r\n\r\nno doubt, Erik Faulhaber has worked
    on the Frutiger Next project but the extent of that work is disputable. This is
    a typical case of \"getting credit\". Type design only recently became an individual
    effort -- previously, a large team of people worked on a particular type, and
    yet typically, only one person got the credit as the \"designer\". \r\n\r\nEven
    today, when FF Meta Pro is published, the credited designer is Erik Spiekermann
    and not \"Spiekermann, van Rossum, de Groot, Sch\xE4fer, Lipton, Schwartz, Safayev,
    Chayeva, Haratzopoulos et al.\" If it were so, it would be quite ridiculous anyway.
    \ \r\n\r\nIf you want personal credit, you need to negotiate it upfront in the
    contract. \r\n\r\nChristian Schwartz and Erik Spiekermann collaborated on FF Unit
    and on FF Meta Headline. Schwartz does get personal credit for FF Meta Headline
    but not for FF Unit -- this is obviously result of different negotiations in different
    projects. \r\n\r\nThe credited designer for Frutiger Next is \"Adrian Frutiger
    / Linotype Design Studio\". This means that Linotype chose not to personally credit
    the other designers who worked on the project, including Erik Faulhaber. This
    is similar for Linotype Univers. This is different for other projects, e.g. Avenir
    Next is credited as \"Adrian Frutiger / Akira Kobayashi\", just like Palatino
    Nova and Optima Nova are credited \"Hermann Zapf / Akira Kobayashi\". \r\n\r\nAltogether,
    such decisions are made on a per-project basis, and surely depend on the actual
    creative input of \"the other\" designer. Sometimes, designers arrange collaborations
    by themselves -- they might hire a collague to draw the small caps or florins
    in their own typeface if there is a tight deadline. \r\n\r\nWhenever you're a
    \"junior designer\" and embark on such a project, make sure to clarify issues
    such as personal credit *upfront*. Erik Faulhaber seemingly has not. He has seemingly
    agreed to hide his name behind the \"Linotype Design Studio\" label but now is
    trying to change reality retroactively. This is not how you work with other people.
    \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-20 10:59:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ... recognise a Lexicon clone.\r\n\r\nApparently you don't know the details.
    And if you\r\nknew what kind of person Roy Preston is, you might\r\nbe motivated
    to find out. Bill however knows [enough]\r\nof the details, but he chooses to
    ignore them. That I'm\r\nsure you understand better than almost anybody.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-21 04:51:31'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Hrant, can't you stay on topic? I didn't even mention Lexicon. But if there
    is a story to tell about that font and Roy, why don't you do everyone a favour
    and tell it? Somewhere else? Do a little webpage or a Wikipedia entry. It would
    interest a lot of people and would one hopes be a more permanent record than a
    blog posting.\r\n\r\nIt's a little interesting that Faul(es)haber has succeeded
    for quite some months now in imposing the impression, now revealed by Bruno Steinert
    to be false, that he is the 'designer' of Frutiger Next. Of course he isn't. At
    Linotype, even Zapf has an art director. There is someone on this thread who could
    tell us some stories about designing for Linotype with one of their art directors
    in charge. ( A Lino art director is not necessarily someone on staff, either;
    distinguished consultants are sometimes brought in.) It isn't necessary to go
    into details; suffice it to say that it can be a painful experience and may allow
    the designer almost no latitude for creativity. This may indeed be something of
    a corporate psychological holdover from Lino's old days when the designer was
    but a very small cog in a huge manufacturing process. The type designer as star
    is a recent phenomenon. Working for Lino could be an ego-bruising, but nevertheless
    a highly instructive experience.\r\n\r\nOf course, one of the pleasures of working
    on a clone is that an art director is not needed; technical fidelity is the only
    requisite. That leads to a question: We seem to have established that Segoe is
    an exact duplication of Frutiger with the exception of one or two exceedingly
    minor details. I would be curious to know if anyone has looked at the spacing.
    Does that correspond to the data in hitherto released versions of Frutiger? It
    would be something, not much, if we knew that Segoe's designers had at least done
    their own spacing. It would say something, again not much, about intent. If the
    spacing is identical, for example, to Linotype's, that would enhance  the impression
    that the font was expected to behave identically to Frutiger at a very deep level. "
  created: '2006-03-21 06:28:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> can\u2019t you stay on topic?\r\n\r\nMaybe if it weren't so exceedingly
    boring.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-21 08:40:27'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> It\u2019s a little interesting that Faul(es)haber...\r\n\r\nCongratulations!
    You obviously like Goethe's mother tongue! The medieval compound \"Faulhaber\"
    denoted \"having 'much' (faul -> viel = much) 'oats' (haber -> hafer = oats)\".
    But the word \"faul\", if derived from the Indoeuropean root \"pu\" (compare the
    English cognate word \"putrid\"), denoted in the middle ages \"the fragrance of
    a lady's privy parts\". That's the euphemistic semantics of this word. Goethe
    used another expression :-)\r\n\r\n> Does that correspond to the data in hitherto
    released versions\r\n\r\nBoth Frutiger & Frutiger Next and Segoe & Segoe UI have
    slightly different metrics. Furthermore, some glyphs of Segoe and Segoe UI are
    identical, whereas some other glyphs are minimally different.\r\n\r\nBTW: When
    will you report about the legal opinion of the retired judge?"
  created: '2006-03-21 13:37:28'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>Apparently you don\u2019t know the details.</em>\r\n\r\nActually,
    I do know most of the details: enough to give Roy Preston the benefit of the doubt
    regarding both his intentions and his methods. However, the fact remains the <em>result</em>,
    the typeface he submitted to Morisawa, is too close to Lexicon for comfort. As
    I've written elsewhere, I've been willing to give Steve Mattheson the benefit
    of the doubt to: maybe he didn't set out to create a clone of Frutiger, but what
    matters is the result and how closely it resembles another typeface. In the typical
    circumstances of judging a competition, these things may slip through from time
    to time; they should not slip through the process of selecting typefaces to license
    for major software products, which must be made more rigourous."
  created: '2006-03-22 02:41:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam: <em>Altogether, such decisions are made on a per-project basis, and
    surely depend on the actual creative input of \u201Cthe other\u201D designer.</em>\r\n\r\nAnd
    on the marketability of the co-designer's name. Crediting a design to Adrian Frutiger
    and Akira Kobayashi, is a double-whammy for Linotype, linking to typeface to two
    very talented designers whose work is widely, and rightly, regarded.\r\n\r\n<em>He
    has seemingly agreed to hide his name behind the \u201CLinotype Design Studio\u201D
    label but now is trying to change reality retroactively.</em>\r\n\r\nI have to
    admit that I sometimes find the attribution to 'Linotype Design Studio' troublesome,
    not least because it is occasionally applied retroactively. What is the 'Linotype
    Design Studio'? It suggests a room with a group of people drawing glyphs, filling
    in character sets, something like the drawing departments of old. But the reality
    is that 'Linotype Design Studio' might refer to Linotype employees, or to freelance
    designers, or to other companies hired by Linotype. I understand why Linotype
    choose to use this attribution and, frankly, it is their privilege since they
    own the results and the contracts allow them to do this. As you note, Adam, the
    correct time to establish how a project will be credited is during contract negotiations.
    But as someone with an interest in history, I'm disappointed to see some interesting
    stories disappear behind this generic attribution. Sometimes these stories are
    interesting cases of international collaboration. Sometimes they involve designers
    of the calibre of Tim Holloway, who is in no way a lesser designer than Adrian
    Frutiger or Akira Kobayashi, but whose name lacks their marketing cachet."
  created: '2006-03-22 02:55:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I do know most of the details\r\n\r\nI don't think so. I was involved from
    way before\r\nRoy even submitted anything, and still am actually.\r\nIf you knew
    as much as you should, I would know.\r\n\r\n> what matters is the result\r\n\r\nWhile
    I think what matters is the intent.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 04:34:08'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "...intent\r\n\r\n\r\n... result\r\n\r\nHrant, why don't you stop posting
    for two minutes and create some wonderful static, non-ripostable content about
    this interesting project?\r\n\r\nNevertheless as to intent and Segoe, that is
    an excellent point. However, I suspect it's something of a red herring even to
    pose the question as I shall try to explain if you can bear to bear with me. Because
    as I understand it, this font was already in Monotype's library of Frutiger clones
    (which also include Univers, used by HP, as well as Linotype clones designed by
    others). Part of Monotype's business model, apparently, is selling Linotype clones.
    I believe I am not mistaken in asserting that Segoe was available as a Frutiger
    clone before Microsoft came a-knocking? Am I not also right in assuming that Monotype
    marketed Segoe as a direct copy? Am I not further right in assuming that Microsoft
    asked for a few trivial changes to be made?  \r\n\r\nOne must also consider the
    substantial body of intellectual property law that has been evolving on derivative
    works over the past two decades. If a work can be shown to be derivative, then
    it is infringing. From this point of view, Myriad would, we may suppose, be found
    infringing. In the base weight, there are a few characters that are different
    from Frutiger, and the differences are slight, though real. It is clearly a highly
    derivative work, unusually so, even for type.\r\n\r\nBut as regards intent, Myriad
    is in a different category from Segoe altogether. Developed over a three year
    period, it was not commissioned to resemble Frutiger, was not intended to be Frutiger,
    did not start off as Frutiger. It only became Frutiger towards the end of a long,
    painful developement process when Robert discovered that he simply could not come
    up with a good design of his own. The sans serif is not his metier, and nor, for
    that matter, is originality. These are not the qualities which make him an interesting
    and a good designer.\r\n\r\nIn the case of Segoe, it is obvious that the font
    was created either by directly appropriating and manipulating the digital data
    with the intent of disguising not the design but the origination of the data points,
    or it was created by tracing over the outlines with the intention of matching
    them exactly but creating new data points. Whichever it was (and I think Linotype's
    analysis favours the former technique), it is a very different process from the
    painful journey that Adobe underwent. \r\n\r\nMonotype intended to make a literal
    copy of Frutiger from the start, and they succeeded. Adobe intended to create
    an entirely original typeface but one that was nevertheless generic in style.
    That was John Warnock's simple brief for Myriad: create a generic sans serif.
    \r\n\r\nIt only became Frutiger after a very long process in which the designer
    discovered that he couldn't do it to his satisfaction. One must give him credit
    for recognizing that, and for spending some years working towards that recognition.
    \r\n\r\nThe story of Myriad is an almost heroic, almost tragic narrative of a
    designer's discovery that he cannot do what he was commissioned to do.  That is
    something we can all sympathize with. And we can learn from it. \r\n\r\nWe can
    also appreciate the many things that Slimbach (and to a much lesser extent Twombley)
    did to make Frutiger more flexible and useful. It is worth noting, too, that they
    probably would not have been permitted to do this had Adobe from the start licensed
    Frutiger for MM development. How they could have achieved this in an entirely
    ethical, above board fashion is not readily apparent to me. But again, as regards
    intent, they did not start off with Frutiger in mind, even if they ended, three
    years later, with Frutiger very much in mind.\r\n\r\nThe story of Segoe, by contrast,
    is one of pure pilfery from the very start. Segoe, after all, is only one of the
    Frutiger clones in Monotype/Ascender's portfolio. There is also the Univers clone,
    for example, an exact duplicate of that font, which they sold to Hewlett Packard.
    And there are others. \r\n\r\nIn other words, we may have to bring ourselves to
    accept that Segoe is not a unique case. A substantial part of Monotype's business
    for well over a decade has been the offering of precise Linotype clones to companies
    who don't wish to pay Linotype's fees. \r\n\r\nThe root of the problem isn't Segoe.
    The root of the problem is Monotype's business plan. The Univers/HP clone was
    only used for branding. It didn't gain mindshare. Only when Monotype's thefts
    (I will revert to my own preferred word here) became widely apparent on the public
    stage (which only happened in the case of Palatino/Book Antiqua and Frutiger/Segoe)
    did ethical and legal questions come to occupy our interest.\r\n\r\nLet us even
    go a little further: had Monotype not stood up at ATypI and presented Book Antiqua
    as an entirely original design in type history to a distinguished audience which
    included Hermann Zapf, and had Microsoft not, again, quite publicly presented
    Segoe as an original design to be considered as such by historians, and had Microsoft
    furhter not attempted to register the design as legal, we would not be discussing
    the matter today.\r\n\r\nIn both these cases, the crime of fraud was quite openly
    practised. It is this which accounts for our ire.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 07:02:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>While I think what matters is the intent.</em>\r\n\r\nThe only intent
    that matters when a typeface is published, i.e. made licenseable, is the <em>intent
    to publish.</em> The thought process that went into producing the typeface is
    irrelevant, the intent of the designer(s) in producing the typeface is irrelevant,
    because the decision to publish is in no way dependent on those creative intentions.
    The creative intentions are part of the process of creating the typeface, not
    the process of publishing it.\r\n\r\nEven more so, such intentions are irrelevant
    to the decision to license a typeface. You do not license an intention, you license
    a <em>thing</em>, a product, a result. And the decision to license a typeface
    must be based on the nature of that thing, not on the real or stated intent of
    the person who made it. You have to look at the result, the thing. You have to
    forget all the claims about how it was made, whether they are true or not, and
    ignore the all explications of the ways in which it is different from other typefaces,
    and really <em>look</em> at the bloody thing with an honest eye -- and sometimes
    with a microscope -- and ask 'Is this thing original enough?' And sometimes the
    answer is no -- sometimes despite the best intentions to create something original
    and non-derivative -- and then you just have to set that thing aside and go look
    elsewhere. You have to, because the best intentions don't change the fact that
    the thing is a clone.\r\n\r\nIf Dolly the sheep were created by accident, every
    cell in her body would still tell you that she's a clone. The intent is irrelevant
    to what the thing <em>is.</em>"
  created: '2006-03-22 08:04:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The only intent that matters when a typeface is published ...\r\n\r\nThen
    you have nothing to complain about.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 08:37:42'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> The only intent that matters when a typeface is published, i.e. made licenseable,
    is the intent to publish. The thought process that went into producing the typeface
    is irrelevant\r\n\r\nMr. Hudson's view of American law is in conformity with my
    view of European law concerning font forgeries. Although there are certain types
    of forgeries, where also the intent or deliberateness to produce is relevant,
    e.g. the producing of forged bank notes (which is a crime even if they are not
    published, i.e. circulated), this deliberateness to produce is not relevant as
    far as art forgeries and font forgeries are concerned. This, of course, only applies
    to criminal law. In civil law, e.g. with regard to the decision of the invalidity
    division about Segoe, no intent is required by Bill Gates and all other Microsoft
    people. Here negligence is sufficient. Negligence means: \"Bill Gates should have
    known that Segoe is a forgery\", while deliberateness means: \"Bill Gates knows
    that Segoe is a forgery\"."
  created: '2006-03-22 11:17:57'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "This is really a long-winded thing. There are two issues John's brought up
    that are interesting though. When Steve worked on this face he did not copy anything,
    I'm sure of that 'cause I know Steve and that's just not what he's about. The
    other point is the one where we say, well, what was Frutiger, (the face). It was
    a typeface family originally designed to work only on Linotype machines. \r\n\r\nAs
    such, the contours would have been placed, in each and every detail, to work perfectly
    with a specific appearance on Linotype machines. What happened subsequently, with
    Frutiger output to any and all devices that'd take it, with no design compensation
    in the ps upgrading, means that Frutiger output in 1994, looks a whole lot different
    and with multiple appearances than Frutiger 1984, rather stable type.\r\n\r\nSo
    now, if you take an outline that's a 1984 Frutiger clone, add a new rasterizer,
    hints, and modifications to the outline for those technical \"upgrades\", now
    what have you got? How does Frutiger at 14pt 96 dpi CT, compare to Segoe at 14pt
    96 dpi CT? Still the same face? Still a knockoff? Win in court? Stop. Bill, remember
    how sorry you were when you did this \"you stole a font\" to me?"
  created: '2006-03-22 13:17:52'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "David: If someone had come up to you \u2014 let's say 5 years ago, or at
    least long before this story had become an issue \u2014 with an unidentified printout
    of Segoe, asking for your comments on his/her original type design, what do you
    think you would have said?\r\n\r\nCompared to most of you guys I am a mere rookie,
    a newcomer in the typographic scene. Nonetheless, I know exactly what my first
    reaction would be: \"Why are you showing me Frutiger?\"\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 15:26:35'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> It was a typeface family originally designed to work only on Linotype machines.
    \r\n\r\nOn which Linotype machines?\r\n\r\nThe many old Linotype catalogs that
    I have do NOT contain the Frutiger font."
  created: '2006-03-22 16:08:34'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "John, I really like your discussion with regard to intent. It is excellent
    but it seems to be situated outside the substantial legal issue of intent. I see
    it more as an ethical view than a legal view. I really wish I could get more into
    this, and the whole derivative art issue as well. Uli, I haven't had any time
    to talk to anyone, I hope I will in the next few days.\r\n\r\nDavid, you raise
    issues that could turn some of our assumptions upside down. What you say about
    Steve has resonance and is exactly what I would have said - before this. \r\n\r\nYour
    points about original design versus later adaptation are also exceptionally well-taken,
    as are those about me and hastiness. Moreover, would you agree that it is possible
    to take two identical fonts, space them differently, and come up with two equally
    valid products that look quite different in print? But that's a red herring.\r\n\r\nYes,
    it is important to consider the technological evolution of a typeface. However,
    here, our assumption is that all Frutiger clones, from Bitstream on downwards,
    are fairly rigidly based on Linotype's photo masters. All the adaptation that
    is going to be done has already been done, or nearly so, for photo. Here, also,
    to be specific, we are talking about Segoe in print, not about Segoe in CT2, and
    not about Segoe UI, except as it is a clearly derivative product of Segoe.\r\n\r\nOne
    thing which might help to clarify the issue would be the answer to these questions:
    \r\n\r\nDid Monotype have a specific Frutiger and/or Frutiger Next clone in its
    OEM library? Who 'designed' it? \r\n\r\nDid Monotype have other specific Linotype
    clones in its OEM library? Who designed them? \r\n\r\nMicromillimetre for micromillimetre,
    how close are Segoe and Frutiger?  \r\n\r\nI think what you are touching on here
    is fair use. This is an area in which your thinking is highly evolved, since a
    lot of your library is based on well-thought out and impeccably provenanced fair
    use adaptations of earlier designs. I could not possibly overstate my admiration
    for the absolutely above-board manner in which you have always done this. But
    isn't it perhaps just a bit too much of a stretch to postulate that others think
    as you do and do as you do? You have provided the exactly correct model for how
    to do this. I need to be convinced that Monotype is following your pattern here.
    Are they? We have asked Microsoft and Monotype/Ascender to speak up. Where are
    they? \r\n\r\nAs a postscript, let me give a small illustration of Font Bureau's
    modus operandi in this respect, from my own experience. In 1993 or 1994, I made
    my second baby font, a fairly literal adaptation of an 18th century early Didot.
    As I didn't know then how to draw digitally, I used Linotype Fairfield as my digital
    basis - with its designer's (Kazcun's) knowledge and informal consent - he was
    an early mentor. It wasn't Fairfield, far from it. But it had enough of Fairfield
    remaining for David to say, sorry, we love it, but it's too close to Fairfield.
    \r\n\r\nBelieve me, guys, it would have taken a real expert to know that Fairfield
    was involved in this substantial redesign. But David saw through it at once. And
    no, that wasn't the kind of thing that he would put in his library. \r\n\r\nSo
    I learned how to digitise from scratch. Nothing could be easier, really, once
    you catch on to it. And I developed the font a lot further, in many directions.
    It now has nothing whatever to do with Fairfield. Hey David, wanna see it? \r\n\r\nAnd
    David, on a serious note, do you think that any of the kind of rigorous aesthetic
    and ethical thought you put into your work has anything to do with the production
    of Segoe? "
  created: '2006-03-22 18:12:50'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "On the subject of the modern legal movement towards rewarding the originator
    of all derivative art, the New York Times has an instructive front page story
    today, entitled 'In the Jungle, the Unjust Jungle, a Small Victory'. Were these
    principles to be applied to typefaces, a high bar would be set, far higher than
    what most of us think 'fair use' constitutes.\r\n\r\nHere's the link: http://www.nytimes.com/2006/03/22/international/africa/22lion.html?ei=5094&en=59afa9b6ff2ce677&hp=&ex=1143090000&partner=homepage&pagewanted=print\r\n\r\nThis
    could be where typeface law will some day evolve. It is easy to see that that
    might not be in the best interests of the industry."
  created: '2006-03-22 18:36:19'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> ... intent\r\n\r\nAs regards Mr. Troop's interesting motivational hypotheses
    about the making of Segoe and Myriad, it might be also of interest for Mr. Troop
    to learn that in European copyright handbooks the following two psychological
    theories concerning \"innocent\" copyists are discussed by law experts:\r\n\r\n1)
    Cryptomnesia\r\n\r\nThe term cryptomnesia (which was also contained in the old
    Webster's Third New International Dictionary) is defined as \"the appearance of
    memory images, which are not recognized as such, but which appear as original
    creations\".\r\n\r\nWith regard to a hypothetical \"innocent\" copyist of the
    font Frutiger, cryptomnesia would mean that the \"innocent\" copyist studied and
    memorized the letter forms of Frutiger a long time ago, e.g. by repeatedly using
    this font for typesetting advertising headlines. Now much later when he starts
    to design a \"new\" font, the \"innocent\" copyist \"automatically\" draws these
    Frutiger letter forms from memory, because he does no longer remember that he
    once used and memorized the Frutiger letter forms. In other words, the \"innocent\"
    copyist thinks that he is creating \"new\" letter forms, while in fact he is only
    reproducing existing letter forms memorized long ago.\r\n\r\nSome psychologists
    and law experts claim that the phenomenon of cryptomnesia may happen, whereas
    others reject this as psychological nonsense.\r\n\r\n2) Double Creation\r\n\r\nWhereas
    patent law is based on the principle of priority with the consequence that two
    identical patents are not allowed, copyright law does not know this principle
    of priority. Therefore, at least theoretically, two different persons, if they
    do not know each other's works and provided they (completely independently from
    one another) both create exactly the same work, they will both become copyright
    owners of the same identical work.\r\n\r\nFor very short and simple works, e.g.
    for TV and radio jingles (technically musical works consisting of a few notes
    only) double creation has been regarded as possible, although I do deny that.
    For instance, for jingles consisting of 8 tones out of 12 different musical-scale
    tones (c, cis, d, es ... h) there are, mathematically speaking, nearly 20 million
    (exactly 19,958,400) different combinations of 8-tone jingles.\r\n\r\nIn any case,
    the German copyright law requires in the rare hypothetical cases of double creations
    that the \"innocent\" double creator proves that he really made a completely independent
    double creation (onus of proof)."
  created: '2006-03-22 19:06:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "As I mentioned earlier, I don't think cryptomnesia is possible in type design.\r\nFor
    instance, if a dozen type designers were asked to recreate the Frutiger A, it's
    unlikely that any would match the exact angles, overshoot, stem taper, height
    of the crossbar, and stem thicknesses. And to do the same thing for the whole
    alphabet would be impossible.\r\n\r\nNo, the nature of the game is direct reference:
    copying and modifying outlines, or tracing.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 19:39:15'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Uli's discussion of Cryptomnesia and double creation helps us deepen our
    thought and hone in more sharply on the issues. Others will correct me if I am
    wrong here, but I don't think it is conceivable that either crytomnesia or double
    creation are viable defenses either in the cases of Myriad or Segoe, since it
    is obvious that the designers were consciously and intimately familiar with Frutiger.
    Not only that, but their colleagues, managers and associates were consciously
    and intimately familiar with Frutiger. \r\n\r\nThere is no one in the entire type
    industry who is not consciously and intimately familiar with the design of Frutiger.\r\n\r\nOn
    the contrary. What we are seeing here is that intellectual property ethics and
    law are moving faster than we are. Many of us may have some painful adjustments
    to make in the years to come. I think much of what John had to say, for example,
    is beautifully worked out in and of itself, but doesn't take into account the
    context of what is legally and ethically happening in the rest of the world.\r\n\r\nAgain,
    this only comes into focus so acutely in the case of Frutiger/Segoe because it
    is so intimate a part both of Microsoft's corporate image and so intimate and
    critical a part of the highly evolved, highly complex product on which it is staking
    its success for the next decade. Microsoft's dilemma is that it cannot succeed
    if its product cannot legally be sold within the European Union. \r\n\r\nAnd again:
    were this a matter of a knockoff used for corporate ID (for a company somewhat
    less prominent than MS), one that was never registered as an original design or
    trademarked, no issue would arise because nobody would know about it. \r\n\r\nMicrosoft
    is in a mess. Its legal strategy is in shambles. I don't see what ultimate choice
    they have but to settle with Linotype and I predict this will quietly happen,
    as it nearly did last year.\r\n\r\nAnd that will be good. Linotype deserves the
    money. Frutiger deserves the money. I only hope he gets it before he dies. Given
    how bad Microsoft will look if they drag this out until Frutiger is no longer
    alive, I encourage Microsoft to move towards a very rapid settlement.\r\n\r\nTo
    be blunt, Si, and all the rest of you at Microsoft, if you get Frutiger on board
    now, he's an asset and you'll be heroes, although you'll be poorer heroes: by
    a penny per OS you sell. But if you wait until he's gone, you'll always be seen
    as Pontius Pilate. Is that the outcome you desire? Can you live with that outcome
    on both the personal and corporate levels? \r\n\r\nThe question isn't whether
    you will settle, but when."
  created: '2006-03-22 20:07:55'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"David: If someone had come up to you \u2014 let\u2019s say 5 years ago,
    or at least long before this story had become an issue \u2014 with an unidentified
    printout of Segoe, asking for your comments on his/her original type design, what
    do you think you would have said?\"\r\n\r\nIt's too close to Frutiger for our
    \"print\" library, why don't you do an online face:)\"\r\n\r\n\"Hey David, wanna
    see it?\"\r\nSure!\r\n\r\n\"And David, on a serious note, do you think that any
    of the kind of rigorous aesthetic and ethical thought you put into your work has
    anything to do with the production of Segoe?\"\r\n\r\nOh, that wasn't serious?
    \ Yes, I do believe that as far as resolution resistant designs go, Madison and
    Co. do as much work in figuring out the right design as we do in our print fonts.\r\n\r\n\"For
    instance, if a dozen type designers were asked to recreate the Frutiger A, it\u2019s
    unlikely that any would match the exact angles, overshoot, stem taper, height
    of the crossbar, and stem thicknesses. \"\r\n\r\nI think that question is clear,
    and the answer is no, they would not make the same A.    But, if they were all
    told that the A had to be on 37/54ths of an em, and that 100 unit stems would
    be required to produce a proper \"book\" face, then they would all be extremely
    close, and some, if enough we solicited, would be exactly the same. That, in a
    technologically constricted world, is what happens.\r\n\r\nI've been on all sides
    and the middle of these arguments time and time again, and I tell you, nothing
    anyone says, (besides me of course), makes sense, until you've got them both on
    a light table and you can trace the differences and similarities to genuine typographic
    motives, (not including of course, \"can you make me a copy?\"), or you can't."
  created: '2006-03-22 22:19:45'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'until you\u2019ve got them both on a light table and you can trace the differences
    and similarities to genuine typographic motives'\r\n\r\nFair enough. So, has anybody
    here actually done that? And David, would it count if I took the two fonts into
    Fog 5, one font in the foreground, other in the background, scale to match, and
    examined at 800%, 3200%, whatever? I really wish someone else would do that. After
    all this talk, I'm afraid of what I might find!"
  created: '2006-03-22 23:10:16'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> scale to match, and examined at 800%, 3200%, whatever?\r\n> I really wish
    someone else would do that (Mr. Troop)\r\n\r\nI wonder why you do not that yourself,
    if you think it is that important.\r\n\r\nIn the UPS case, a reduction to 95.3
    % (= a reduction by 4.7 %) of the glyph coordinates of the forgery \"UPS Sans\"
    yielded the glyphs of the font \"FF Dax\". But this reduction was only the first
    \"crude task\" performed by the font forgers who had been commissioned by United
    Parcel Service to forge the FF Dax font. Thereafter, as a second \"refined task\",
    these professional font forgers were ordered by UPS to make a few conspicuous
    modifications to a small selection of glyphs, as has been demonstrated by me on
    pages 9 and 15 in my documentation http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/barmen.pdf\r\n\r\n>
    and sometimes with a microscope (Mr. Hudson)\r\n\r\nNo court judge in Europe would
    examine a font with a microscope. The decision of the invalidity division of the
    sixth of February 2006 has clearly shown that fonts are compared by the invalidity
    division (and by European law courts, for that matter) with the naked eye, not
    with microscopes and similar tools. Such tools (microscopes, X-ray, chemicals
    etc.) are applied in art forgery cases, but not in font forgery cases, where ordinary
    printed alphabets typeset in ordinary point sizes and viewed with the ordinary
    human eye is all that is required in order to arrive at the conclusion that two
    different fonts \"should be considered identical\" (see invalidity decision).
    \r\n\r\nPS: Here is an example of cryptomnesia. I have just wondered why I write
    \"naked eye\". Did I \"create\" this expression? Apparently not. I now think that
    I once seem to have read this saying: \"Neither the sun nor death can be looked
    at with the naked eye\". But did this saying really have this wording? Was it
    \"...with the steady eye\"?"
  created: '2006-03-23 08:21:58'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "A very preliminary impression, comparing Lino/Adobe Frutiger to Segoe UI.
    Steps are 1, open Segoe UI in Fontlab, 2, convert to PS, 3, open in Fog 5, 4,
    place Lino Frutiger in background, 5, scale 98.04% to match x-height. Frutiger
    is slightly wider and slightly heavier, making a direct comparison difficult without
    adjusting weight and horizontal scale. Even so, several lowercase glyphs are,
    in what seems to be the common consensus, too close, but there are some differences
    and it is clear that there is not the intention, here, to make an absolutely literal
    copy. However, this is Segoe UI, not Segoe, and has been further altered for UI
    purposes. There are many, many similarities, and there are differences. It seems
    hardly conceivable that the font was drawn without reference to Frutiger, but
    how and to what extent, I can't conclude at this early date. I would appreciate
    hearing the impressions of someone more skilled in font forensics. The last time
    I checked a font for signs of literal pilfery was several years ago when I checked
    Le Monde against several cuts of Times New Roman and discovered and published
    indisputable evidence of point pilfering from a specific cut of Times New Roman
    that Adobe shipped with Illustrator 6. I see no evidence of point pilfering with
    Segoe, but then, it would be hard to do that given that one is in PS format and
    the other in TT, and I am comparing PS to a TT conversion whose quality I have
    not tested. However, the difference in design between Times and Le Monde is far
    greater than the difference between Segoe UI and Lino/Adobe Frutiger. The purpose
    of the Le Monde analysis was to discover if Porchez was telling the truth when
    he first asserted that he had point pirated, or whether he was telling the truth
    when he later denied it. I concluded and illustrated that the first statement
    was the true one. In either case, it was indisputable that the designs were substantially
    different. Here, the purpose is not to discover if point piracy exists, since
    it is beyond my skill to do that cross-format, but to discover if design piracy
    exists. Between these two fonts I will only for the time being adopt the phrase
    used I think by both John and Adam, that the fonts are too close. I can't find
    my other Segoe fonts, so the rest will have to wait until tomorrow. I also don't
    know what the differences are in the base weights of Lino/Adobe Frutiger and Linotype
    Frutiger Next, so those comparisons have to be made too.\r\n\r\nBy the way, I'd
    like further to point out that when I sent my Didot to David years ago, that was
    in the days when we still sent paper samples only. David's eyes detected its digital
    derivation from Fairfield without the benefit of computer software. That guy doesn't
    need to look at points to figure out what's going on! \r\n\r\nSpeaking only for
    myself: if I had to take the idea I have in my head of Frutiger, and draw something
    to it as close as I could, without being permitted to consult large printouts
    of Frutiger or anything I could trace over, I don't think I could come up with
    something that was as close to Frutiger as Segoe UI is. But that's all I can say.
    Others have completely different skill sets and I am sure there are many who could
    do a better job of this hypothetical task than me.\r\n\r\nAgain, there are some
    German display types of the 1920s that have some  pre-Frutiger features. Were
    I to adapt one of these bold and compressed fonts to a normal weight, as I have
    sometimes thought of doing, I doubt that the result would be considered to be
    a Frutiger clone. But that's just me."
  created: '2006-03-23 09:05:40'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'Such tools (microscopes, X-ray, chemicals etc.) are applied in art forgery
    cases, but not in font forgery cases, where ordinary printed alphabets typeset
    in ordinary point sizes and viewed with the ordinary human eye is all that is
    required in order to arrive at the conclusion that two different fonts \u201Cshould
    be considered identical\u201D (see invalidity decision).'\r\n\r\nOf course everything
    I have just written about my preliminary but time-consuming comparison is more
    or less invalidated by this . . . \r\n\r\nAs I have suggested before, many of
    us in the font industry have some catching up to do. The EU needs to have common
    IP laws to the greatest extent possible; in practice that means that the laws
    most favourable to artists/creators will be adopted. Corporations with international
    product lines will have to comply with EU standards (just as DVD-burner manufacturers
    have just had quite painfully to retool to comply with EU standards), and eventually,
    US and British laws will probably follow suit, long after US and British manufacturers
    have had to. The ethics many of us have spent a long time working out are not
    likely to meet the standards Uli has described above. I can imagine this having
    some good effects and some bad effects for the type industry."
  created: '2006-03-23 09:21:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But, if they were all told that the A had to be on 37/54ths of an em,
    and that 100 unit stems would be required to produce a proper \u201Cbook\u201D
    face, then they would all be extremely close, and some, if enough we solicited,
    would be exactly the same.</em>\r\n\r\nGood point David. If a type designer is
    asked to better the performance of a particular font (with quite specific parameters
    of usage), wherever he/she starts, the result is going to be, to all intents and
    purposes, the same typeface -- if not the same font. It's a testimony to the virtue
    of the original typeface. I've done that, started with a different font, massaged
    it to the client's needs, and even though no point piracy was involved, it ended
    up in a state where a forensic typographer could probably have proved that some
    piracy was involved. But the typeface was the \"open source\" Century (much of
    it indistinguishable from Bodoni), and in a display usage that Benton or Bodoni
    could not have envisaged. I wouldn't have attempted the same kind of thing with
    Frutiger.\r\n\r\nSo a lot of responsibility falls on the creative director of
    the vehicle for which the typeface is intended, and the brief given to the type
    designer. If a brand's typography is predicated on a certain type of layout that
    demands a Frutiger-ish typeface, that's asking for trouble. To avoid trouble,
    an older typeface should be used, or a genre with more flexibility, or best of
    all, a fresh kind of layout that prompts an original type design.\r\n\r\nWhy does
    an OS typography have to be generically bland? Apple has consistently pointed
    the way in terms of GUI style, and MS has followed. But the types (with the exception
    of Chicago) have dragged up the rear. Apple's present OS face is a bit Optima-ish
    and slightly old-fashioned. The door is wide open for a new \"square\" or techno
    OS face, surely the widespread use of pixel-fonts on web sites has paved the way.
    Companies whose software products are up-to-date end up using vintage typefaces.
    The pride-of-place given to type revivals and the millstone of traditionalism
    drag down typography, and have a lot to answer for. "
  created: '2006-03-23 18:29:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Apple has consistently pointed the way in terms of GUI style\r\n\r\nNot
    when it comes to the type, not for the past few years.\r\nApple now lets us down
    at almost every turn. Myriad?! Sheesh.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-23 21:30:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Not when it comes to the type,</em>\r\n\r\nAs I said, \"but the types
    ... have dragged up the rear.\"\r\nIn one sense, Lucida Grande is progressive,
    in bringing a new degree of subtlety to the table (eg ascender taller than cap
    height), but as a classic face with Optima-like proportions and contrast, it is
    going backwards to go forwards."
  created: '2006-03-23 21:52:47'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'Why does an OS typography have to be generically bland?'\r\n\r\nBecause
    we are all using the computer to express our thoughts and from the OS we want
    the closest thing to transparency we can attain? \r\n\r\nI actually don't think
    Frutiger is a good choice for the interface. Frankly, nothing beats Helvetica/Arial
    for me -- except Geneva. I don't want the interface font doing <em>anything</em>
    to distract me. \r\n\r\nFor my DOS word processor, XyWrite, I like but don't love
    Lucida Console at 28 points on a 1920x1200 screen, which gives me about 40 lines
    of text. So many more wonderfully transparent text fonts seemed to exist in the
    bitmap, monospace days, real triumphs of style and getting the most out of the
    least. There was real creativity when you were confined to an 8x10 grid or whatever
    it was. And now . . . creativity . . . reach for what - - - Frutiger? ? ? \r\n\r\nHow
    about this goal: the font that places the minimum distance between me and the
    machine? I have a feeling that wouldn't look much like Frutiger or any of the
    other sans serifs we think we know and understand. There's a problem here: we're
    approaching the screen from too much of a print perspective. We need a clean slate
    with a clean screen perspective that doesn't owe anything to print. "
  created: '2006-03-24 02:14:12'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "OK, here's a progress report. Let me tell you one thing, Fontlab 5 works
    like a dream for this kind of examination. The base weight of Segoe (not Segoe
    UI) is, as I pointed out for Segoe UI, a little narrower and a little lighter
    than Lino/Adobe Frutiger. The same is true for Segoe. How to arrive at a true
    picture of what might and might not have been manipulated? \r\n\r\nI took unconverted
    PS files of Segoe, Segoe Bold, Segoe condensed, and Segoe Bold condensed, and
    in less time than it takes to describe, I had a multiple master. I put Frutiger
    in the Mask layer and then scaled it 98.04% as before, hz and vt. With Fontlab,
    it's a cinch to slide until you get one of several possible good matches to Frutiger,
    which here is about 146 for weight and 1157 for width. \r\n\r\nIn the screen shot,
    the red outline represents Frutiger, the dark green outline represents Segoe,
    and the grey fill represents the interpolation/extrapolation between the four
    Segoe weights which constitute the MM. \r\n\r\nWhat relevance does this have?
    What conclusions can we come to? I have no idea. Here's the screen shot. More
    to come if anyone's interested.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/segoe
    e.png]"
  created: '2006-03-24 05:46:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> we\u2019re approaching the screen from too much of a print perspective.\r\n\r\nIndeed,
    after all this time & talk, we still have this problem.\r\nWe have yet to admit
    the fallacy that is WYSIWYG.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-24 06:05:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Uli: <em>No court judge in Europe would examine a font with a microscope.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    wasn't talking about a court, I was talking about a process for prevention at
    the pre-licensing stage. I don't see much point in me stating legal opinions because
    I'm neither a lawyer nor a judge. So I'm focusing on the question 'What can be
    done, practically, to prevent this kind of thing from happening?' Of course, this
    presumes goodwill, i.e. that a company like Microsoft wants to do the right thing
    or, at least, wants to avoid getting into this sort of mess, being accused of
    these kinds of things, paying lots of money to lawyers, and having judges in important
    foreign markets decide against them.\r\n\r\nWhen I made reference to a microscope,
    I was alluding to the kind of forensic analysis that is sometimes necessary to
    detect a process of deliberate, concealed derivation. Any moderately experienced
    typographer can look at Segoe and Frutiger side-by-side and come to the conclusion
    that the former looks very much like the latter, even if some may disagree about
    whether it looks <em>too much</em> like the latter, or whether the coincidence
    of the outlines is significant in a type designed primarily for screen, or whether
    the intent to copy is deliberate, or whether the licensing is evidence of deliberate
    intent or negligence.\r\n\r\nBut the number of people who can authoritatively
    say, for instance, that Bengali typeface X is derived from Bengali typeface Y
    is quite small, and the if the derivation is concealed by changes to some details
    or proportions a close forensic analysis is necessary to determine the relationship
    of the two designs. A court might not look closely enough. The typographic community
    that is discussing Segoe at such length might not know or care enough about Bengali
    typography to interest itself. But the questions of originality, derivation, intent
    and negligence are the same, and should be addressed <em>at the typeface selection
    stage,</em> before the licensing contracts are signed, before the fonts are shipped
    in beta products, before the lawyers get involved."
  created: '2006-03-24 06:37:02'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "One more comment about that e. What would it now take to turn Frutiger into
    an exact duplicate of Segoe? Not much. I got a pretty exact match by moving a
    few handles exactly 10 or exactly 20 units, and by moving one point exactly 10
    units. Two things make me uncomfortable: (1) how easy it is to move handles 1
    and 10 unit increments in Fontlab with the cursor keys--a feature suggestion for
    which I am responsible; (2) that it is possible to get from here to there with
    just a few 10 or 20 unit pushes of the arrows via the cursor keys -- in other
    words, less than ten keystrokes altogether. Again, what does this mean, if anything?
    Again, I have no idea. 'Je n'impose rien; je ne propose rien: j'expose' -- if
    I may make use of a rather mischievous bit of imposture. \r\n\r\nHave I just succeeded
    in reverse-engineering Segoe? I don't know. I doubt it. \r\n\r\nFor one thing,
    I suspect that other characters would require different interpolation/extrapolation
    settings to get a good match -- and for evidence of a purely mechanical or purely
    cynical copy we need to see global manipulations at work. For another, I am not
    experienced in this kind of analysis, so I can't tell how significant any of my
    findings, so far, are. For example, I have discovered that it is quite easy to
    match the Frutiger and Segoe e. But I have not tried the same experiment with
    30 or 40 other fonts and with other characters. What if it were nearly as easy
    with some of those? Then what I have shown here would have little significance.
    On the other hand, if it were very difficult to accomplish the transformation
    with many other fonts, then I think I would (might) have found out something that
    was at least a factor worth considering within a larger frame. Finally, let's
    not forget the astonishing passage in one of Walter Tracy's books where he shows
    how Monotype in the 1930s only had to change a few characters in Gill Sans to
    come up with an effective lookalike for Futura. That's important for two reasons:
    because Gill and Futura are supposed to be so different philosophically and practically
    (the one 'geometric', the other 'humanist' -- that latter being a word I would
    like to see excised from the type vocabulary as it is so value laden that it will
    inevitably be misused); and because it shows - shucks! - that Mono was already
    doing this way back when. \r\n\r\nI wonder if it's possible to say that Linotype
    was always the more successful company, and that Monotype was always looking for
    ways to get a piece of Lino's cake? I don't know enough about the financial and
    competitive history of the companies to hazard a guess there.\r\n\r\nSo after
    all of this, I'm left with what we started out: (1) the feeling clearly articulated
    by John and Adam, and shared by most others, that the fonts are too close; (2)
    Linotype's victory with the EU; (3) Microsoft's legal acknowledgement that the
    fonts are identical -- at least within the terms of that tribunal.\r\n\r\nI guess
    I should have a look at the italic of Segoe and Frutiger Next, but I'm not looking
    forward to it. I do have work to do!"
  created: '2006-03-24 07:38:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"After all this talk, I\u2019m afraid of what I might find!\"\r\nThe usual
    procedure is \"ready, aim, fire.\"\r\n\r\n\"Such tools (microscopes, X-ray, chemicals
    etc.) are applied in art forgery cases, but not in font forgery cases\"\r\n\r\nToo
    bad, it might require chemical sampling of the brain to know for sure if a font
    is a forgery.\r\n\r\n\"If a type designer is asked to better the performance of
    a particular font (with quite specific parameters of usage)\"\r\n\r\nWell, that
    too, but fonts designed from scratch, not too long ago, had these kinds of preconceived,
    specific requirements. Iconic fonts, like Chicago the bitmap, and Highway Gothic
    aka Interstate, were designed under constraints so tight, if you did them again,
    you'd do them again..."
  created: '2006-03-24 15:04:22'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> ... Bengali typeface X is derived from Bengali typeface Y...\r\n\r\nSorry,
    I cannot help you here. My field of research is Sanskrit, not Bengali. Furthermore,
    I would consider it inappropriate to deal with fonts used by languages I have
    not learned. Ne sutor supra crepidam."
  created: '2006-03-24 15:29:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I would consider it inappropriate to deal with\r\n> fonts used by languages
    I have not learned.\r\n\r\nWhile I consider it the responsibility of a type designer\r\nto
    look beyond language and directly into script.\r\n\r\nDzour nsdink shidag khosink:
    jamanagut guh gorsuntsunesgor.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-24 15:37:59'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> So after all of this, I\u2019m left with what we started out: (1) the feeling
    clearly articulated by John and Adam, and shared by most others, that the fonts
    are too close; (2) Linotype\u2019s victory with the EU; (3) Microsoft\u2019s legal
    acknowledgement that the fonts are identical \u2014 at least within the terms
    of that tribunal.\r\n\r\nIn this thread, there have been used so many inappropriate
    law terms (pilfery, piracy, plagiarism, theft etc.) that it was not possible for
    me to comment them all. Since Mr. Troop quoted Goethe, I assume that he can read
    my German documents at my website, so that he can read the full legal details
    in German language.\r\n\r\nFor those who cannot read my German documents concerning
    the legal situation of fonts in Germany (e.g. my documents kunstwerke.pdf, computerprogramme.pdf
    etc.), I mention here briefly that \"on principle\" (\"grunds\xE4tzlich\", i.e.
    in most cases) fonts are NOT copyrightable in Germany. Therefore, with regard
    to the Segoe case, I always used the legal term \"forgery\" and never used the
    legal term \"infringement\" (\"copyright infringement\" or \"design infringement\"),
    because Frutiger and Frutiger Next are neither protected by the German copyright
    law (UrhG) nor protected by the German design law, for different legal reasons.
    Therefore, Frutiger Next could not be registered as a design by the German Heidelberger
    Druckmaschinen AG (aka \"Heideldruck\") which is the owner of the subsidiary Linotype
    GmbH.\r\n\r\n1) If Frutiger and Frutiger Next were protected by the German copyright
    law (Urheberrechtsgesetz), then Heideldruck could sue Microsoft for damages (which
    would be much much higher than \"one penny per OS sold \") on the grounds of copyright
    infringement (\xA7 97 UrhG) and in addition could enforce by court that Microsoft
    does not sell Windows Vista with Segoe.\r\n\r\n2) If Frutiger and Frutiger Next
    were protected by the German design law (Geschmacksmustergesetz), then Heideldruck
    could sue Microsoft for damages on the grounds of design infringement (\xA7 41
    GeschmMG) and in addition could enforce by court that Microsoft does not sell
    Windows Vista with Segoe.\r\n\r\nThe decision of the invalidity division only
    has the effect that Heideldruck, which was not allowed to register the fonts Frutiger
    and Frutiger Next as design, could achieve the annulment of the illegal registration
    made by Microsoft which had deliberately deceived the registration office when
    it registered its forgery \"Segoe\" as \"new\" and \"novel\" design."
  created: '2006-03-24 17:05:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Since Mr. Troop quoted Goethe, I assume\r\n> that he can read my German
    documents\r\n\r\nFor somebody so well-versed in the nitpickings of multinational\r\nlegalese,
    that logic is about as sound as Apple's typography...\r\nI have this friend you
    should meet: he sings entire Greek folk\r\nsongs, but doesn't understand the language
    one bit. I guess he\r\nmight be Illegal in Germany though.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-24 17:39:32'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Uli, Hrant is right, I have some literary German, but my practical and legal
    German is almost hopeless. I am still trying to figure out exactly what the possible
    implications of Uli's coinage Heideldruck might be. Druck can mean many things,
    including printing, being under pressure, browbeating, etc. Uli, give us a hand.\r\n\r\nI
    see here two great summations of the issues here. Uli's \r\n\r\n'The decision
    of the invalidity division only has the effect that Heideldruck, which was not
    allowed to register the fonts Frutiger and Frutiger Next as design, could achieve
    the annulment of the illegal registration made by Microsoft which had deliberately
    deceived the registration office when it registered its forgery \u201CSegoe\u201D
    as \u201Cnew\u201D and \u201Cnovel\u201D design.'\r\n\r\nand David's\r\n\r\n'Too
    bad, it might require chemical sampling of the brain to know for sure if a font
    is a forgery.'\r\n\r\n'What oft was thought but n'er so well expres't'. What can
    we really know about what happened here without being inside the heads of the
    principal actors? Do they themselves any longer know what they did, or why? We
    only have their actions, and what we can deduce from their actions, which is something
    but not everything. \r\n\r\nFinally, a bit of literary criticism. Hofmannstahl
    has Klytemn\xE4stra memorably speak, 'Was die Warheit ist, das bringt kein Mensch
    heraus' which I would loosely translate as, 'What truth is, mere mankind cannot
    know, only the Gods can.' I'm adding the glosses 'mere' and the phrase about the
    Gods because I think the context demands it. But the question arises, is K speaking
    the truth when she says we cannot know it?\r\n\r\nWe have all the elements of
    a 21st style Greek tragedy here. The clock's ticking for Adrian, whose font is
    the improbable subject of our drama, and we are still in considerable suspense
    as to what the other actors have done, will do, and why. \r\n\r\nFunny thing,
    though, as it plays out: the Dreyfusard is not normally a silent crittur."
  created: '2006-03-24 18:55:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "I think it's a mistake to attach too much importance to \"point piracy\".\r\n\r\nOn
    the one hand, a good principle, because it really is a huge time-saving cheat
    to take someone else's outlines and tweak them.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, in my
    own work, almost all my fonts (in widely differing styles -- way further apart
    than Gill Sans and Futura) were made by modifying one of my other fonts, self-piracy.\r\n\r\nBy
    saying that point-piracy is theft, it kind of absolves \"mere\" analog imitation
    and tracing, and dubious bad intent and convenient self-deception, from that stigma
    and responsibility. "
  created: '2006-03-24 20:27:10'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> I am still trying to figure out exactly what the possible implications
    of Uli\u2019s coinage Heideldruck might be. Druck can mean many things, including
    printing, being under pressure, browbeating, etc. Uli, give us a hand.\r\n\r\nIt
    is neither a joke nor a mystery. That's how here TV and Press call this big printing
    maschine factory (with 24,000, in words twenty-four thousand employees), which
    wholly owns this very very tiny Linotype GmbH font outfit (with only circa twenty
    full-time employees).\r\n\r\nThe complete legal company name \"Heidelberger Druckmaschinen
    AG\" was too long for newpaper headlines, hence they coined:\r\n\r\nHeidel[berger]
    Druck[maschinen AG] => Heideldruck\r\n\r\nsee e.g. http://boerse.ard.de/content.jsp?key=dokument_145842\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-24 21:48:07'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Great point, Nick. I have always distinguished between point piracy, which
    is unimportant unless you make an issue out of it by fibbing about it, and design
    piracy, which annoys me much more. The two are completely different. I too have
    sometimes point pirated from myself. However, entirely philosophically, I would
    propose that where possible, fresh digitisations should be made. I think you are
    more likely to get into a design''s skin when you digitise it afresh. Obviously,
    however, time does not always allow that, and not every project is so important.
    That said, I have wasted an awful lot of time in the past by drawing individual
    serifs, etc. etc. etc. What a waste of time. Missing the forest for the trees.
    But hey, I wasn''t, like many of us, ready to see the forest at first. '
  created: '2006-03-24 21:53:51'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> For somebody so well-versed in the nitpickings of multinational\r\nlegalese,
    that logic is about as sound as Apple\u2019s typography\u2026\r\n\r\nWho says
    that legal thinking is logical thinking?"
  created: '2006-03-24 21:58:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I think you are more likely to get into a design\u2019s skin when you
    digitise it afresh.</em>\r\n\r\nI agree, sort of. A lot depends on how close the
    source and the derivative are, and how clear an idea you have of what the new
    design is all about. If the new design idea is insufficiently resolved, and for
    want of decision reiterates features of the prior, rather than merely using its
    outlines for convenience, then there can be problems. "
  created: '2006-03-24 22:41:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you are more likely to get into a design\u2019s skin when you digitise
    it afresh. \r\n\r\nWhile I would offer the following paradox:\r\nWhen you digitize
    it, you lose it. Because no digitization technology\r\ncan be perfect - like think
    of Raph's and others' issues with beziers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-24 23:24:05'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "'While I would offer the following paradox:\r\nWhen you digitize it, you
    lose it. Because no digitization technology\r\ncan be perfect - '\r\n\r\nHonestly,
    I see nothing wrong with Fog 4/5's floating point points - that gives you pretty
    infinite flexibility, and FontLab can deal with floating points, no doubt more
    in the future. And that's just talking about classic Postscript limitations. Furthermore,
    you are assuming that the designer's idea is greater than conventional digitisation
    allows, which is pretty unlikely. \r\n\r\n'like think of Raph\u2019s and others\u2019
    issues with beziers.'\r\n\r\nThe issue isn't what you can achieve, but how easily.
    You can draw with Raph's techniques and convert to Bezier, and vice versa. As
    long as you have the patience to deal with the technical demands of the drawing
    system you are using, you can accomplish anything you want - it's just that there's
    a bit more labour involved. But I think that's true of every system. \r\n\r\nI
    don't think the problem is digital per se, but the specific limitations of 1,000
    em traditional postscript. There are plenty of ways to get round that, even now.\r\n\r\nWhen
    you say no digitisation process is perfect you might just as well say no printing
    process is perfect, no rasteriser is perfect, no eye is perfect, no art, no soul.
    \r\n\r\nWhen Edith Wharton lay on her deathbed, she discussed Balzac with her
    friend Elsina Tyler, who asked how she could possibly admire Balzac so much, as
    he was such a poor stylist. Wharton replied, 'You might just as well say that
    the streets are paved with cobblestones.'\r\n\r\nBut do these issues belong here?
    And would someone besides me please volunteer to do some Frutiger Next/Segoe Italic
    comparisons? Or can it be conceded that we don't need them? Can anyone suggest
    predecessor designs that might be of interest? I am still not entirely confident
    I have got my head around David Berlow's discussion of sans italics in TBR/TBF,
    with the interesting observations about teardrops and male and female something
    or others. One of the things that is valuable about that small essay is that it
    provides some new and useful analytical terminology for type taxonomy. "
  created: '2006-03-25 04:28:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I see nothing wrong with Fog 4/5\u2019s floating point points\r\n\r\n1)
    Sure there's something wrong: stuff hits\r\nthe fan when you actually output the
    font!\r\n2) I'm not talking about the coarseness of the grid, but the [mis]guiding
    effect of the tool (the cubic, and especially quadratic, bezier) on the design.
    Because humans are naturally inclines to save time/effort, the limitations/preferences
    of the tool go way beyond the hypothetical.\r\n\r\n> that\u2019s true of every
    system.\r\n\r\nYes, but a given system can be more or less attuned to what the
    designer wants to accomplish, as well as what the designer typically tends to
    accomplish.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-25 05:04:29'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Well now, Mr. Troop?\r\n\r\n> but baulked at Linotype\u2019s price: one penny
    per OS sold. \r\n\r\nAt the German FontShop blog\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontblog.de/files/category-2.html\r\n\r\nLinotype
    GmbH's general manager Bruno Steinert declared yesterday in German:\r\n\r\n\"Die
    1 cent-Geschichte ist frei erfunden und entbehrt jeglicher Grundlage. Es ist bedauernswert,
    da\xDF solche L\xFCgen ohne weiteres Hinterfragen mit Begeisterung im Web weiter
    werbreitet werden.\"\r\n\r\nLiteral translation: \"The 1-cent story is entirely
    fabricated and totally unfounded. It is regrettable that such lies are enthusiatically
    promulgated on the web without any examination.\"\r\n\r\nWell now, Mr. Troop?
    Why did you promulgate the \"one penny per OS sold\" story?\r\n\r\n> Too bad,
    it might require chemical sampling of the brain to know for sure \r\n\r\nIn order
    to find out your motivation for your promulgation of the \"one penny per OS sold\"
    story  you only need to make a chemical sampling of your own brain.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-25 07:16:38'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I got this information in 2004 from a source at Linotype.\r\nI have the interview
    on tape. I will not disclose my\r\nsource.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-25 19:15:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I was ignoring the whole one-cent per OS story because it seemed so improbable
    as to be irrelevant. Microsoft only ever pay a one-time fee for a font license,
    and everyone in the business knows that. Certainly Linotype know it because they
    had already licensed Frutiger to MS for the eBook reader. I don't know what the
    terms of that license were, but knowing that MS like to leave the door open, I
    would be very surprised if it didn't contain provisions for extension of the license.
    The strangest thing about Segoe is just how unnecessary it was <em>if MS wanted
    Frutiger.</em> I have little doubt that they could have had Frutiger, and it wouldn't
    have cost them an unreasonable amount.\r\n\r\nI think the only way to make sense
    of that is to consider that MS did <em>not</em> want Frutiger, and actually wanted
    something new and fresh and original to be the flagship typeface of their new
    operating system. Splendid as Frutiger is, it is a design three decades old. How
    do you make a marketing splash about that? No, I think MS really wanted a new
    typeface, and maybe the people making the decisions there thought they were getting
    one. That Monotype delivered a Frutiger-look-alike doesn't necessarily mean that
    this is what Microsoft asked for. They could have asked for nothing more controversial,
    or more precise, than 'a new sans serif design suitable for use as a UI font'."
  created: '2006-03-25 21:04:04'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" Microsoft only ever pay a one-time fee for a font license, and everyone
    in the business knows that.\"\r\n\r\nThough I understand the spirit of the statement,
    and the statement is true in spirit, it is not true in fact with the \"ever\"
    in place. "
  created: '2006-03-25 22:02:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: A subtle point, David, but a fair one. I know that Microsoft in the past entered
    into royalty paying arrangements, but I'm not aware of any recent examples of
    this, and they're pretty clear on their policy preference.
  created: '2006-03-26 05:45:55'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Troop's statement:\r\n\r\n> Before commissioning Segoe, Microsoft did,
    Le Times has heard from Linotype, try to license Frutiger, but baulked at Linotype\u2019s
    price: one penny per OS sold. Kudos to Microsoft for realizing that pennies add
    up to an unacceptable and unfair shareholder burden.\r\n> I got this information
    in 2004 from a source at Linotype. I have the interview on tape. I will not disclose
    my source.\r\n\r\nMr. Steinert's statement:\r\n\r\n> The 1-cent story is entirely
    fabricated and totally unfounded. It is regrettable that such lies are enthusiatically
    promulgated on the web without any examination. (Die 1 cent-Geschichte ist frei
    erfunden und entbehrt jeglicher Grundlage. Es ist bedauernswert, da\xDF solche
    L\xFCgen ohne weiteres Hinterfragen mit Begeisterung im Web weiter werbreitet
    werden.)\r\n\r\nEither Mr. Troop's statement is a lie or Mr. Steinert's statement
    is a lie.\r\nTherefore, either Mr. Bill Troop is a lier or Mr. Bruno Steinert
    is a lier.\r\n\r\nFontShop quoted Mr. Troop, and Mr. Steinert at the FontShop
    blog therefore implicitly declared that Mr. Troop is a lier. Conversely, Mr. Troop
    implicitly declared that Mr. Steinert is a lier, because the alleged \"penny-deal\"
    would have been negotiated by Mr. Steinert himself, because, as I said in my previous
    posting to this thread, Linotype GmbH is a very very tiny font outfit with only
    circa twenty full-time employees plus a couple of occasional free-lancers, for
    instance the students Mr. Adam Twardoch and Mr. Daniel Reynolds and for instance
    the apprentice and presumed lier Mr. Erik Faulhaber, who claims to be the designer
    of \"Frutiger Next\", which is considered a lie by Mr. Steinert. The majority
    of these circa twenty full-time employees are simple clerks who do not make an
    \"interview on tape\". Therefore, in view of this tiny outfit, there remains only
    Mr. Bruno Steinert himself who could have given an \"interview on tape\", provided
    that Mr. Troop is not a lier who is telling us lies.\r\n\r\nBy using the expression
    \"entirely fabricated and totally unfounded\", Mr. Steinert declares that he did
    not negotiate at all with Microsoft concerning Segoe, thus by his unequivocal
    statement Mr. Steinert declares that he made neither a 1-cent licence offer nor
    a 1-penny licence offer nor a 2-cent licence offer nor a 3-cent licence offer
    nor any other licence offer. Provided that Mr. Steinert is not a lier, this would
    be in accord with German laws, because by German laws, the Linotype GmbH would
    not be allowed to negotiate a \"licence\" in view of the illegal forgery Segoe.
    If someone forges banknotes, you are not allowed to \"negotiate\" with the forger
    a \"licence\" for the \"right\" to distribute the forged banknotes. Likewise,
    if someone forges a painting, the author of the original painting is not allowed
    to \"negotiate\" with the forger a \"licence\" for the \"right\" to distribute
    the forgery of his original painting. Likewise, if someone forges a font, the
    author of the original font is not allowed to \"negotiate\" with the forger a
    \"licence\" for the \"right\" to distribute the forgery of the original font.
    But the author of the original font (in this case Mr. Adrian Frutiger) may try
    to claim damages and may try to claim that the forged font (in this case the forgery
    \"Segoe\") is not distributed.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 10:37:25'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>the students Mr. Adam Twardoch and Mr. Daniel Reynolds</em>\r\n\r\nI
    indeed did work at Linotype for some time as a student. However, since January
    I have been a full-time employee there."
  created: '2006-03-26 12:34:50'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I\u2019m not aware of any recent examples of this, and they\u2019re pretty
    clear on their policy preference.\"\r\n\r\nI'm certain there will be no more.
    The problem, was that if you earned per bundle royalties, you ended up with information
    that was nearly as valuable than the royalty itself. :-o\r\n\r\nI assumed that
    when Mr. Troop said \"for pennies per OS shipment\", he meant that if you divided
    the one-time fee by the number of expected users, you'd get pennies per font.\r\n\r\nI'm
    hoping now, that this issue will cease to twitch. "
  created: '2006-03-26 14:22:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the students Mr. Adam Twardoch and Mr. Daniel Reynolds\r\n\r\nAha!! LIAR
    LIAR LIAR LIAR LIAAAAAAAAR!!!!\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/forum/1\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 14:26:08'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Aha!! LIAR LIAR LIAR LIAR LIAAAAAAAAR!!!!\r\n\r\nI am sorry, Mr. Paparazzi,
    for my completely incorrect spelling of the word \"lier\" (instead of the correct
    spelling \"liar\").\r\n\r\nWhile I am learning correct English spelling, you may
    learn German so that you can correctly read this new German message by Mr. Steinert:\r\n\r\n\"Die
    1 cent-Geschichte ist frei erfunden (von wem eigentlich?) und entbehrt jeglicher
    Grundlage. Linotype hat auch keine Klage erhoben sondern lediglich einen Einspruch
    im Rahmen des Registrierungsverfahrens erhoben. Es ist bedenklich, wie solche
    Erfindungen und Halbwahrheiten ohne weiteres Hinterfragen mit Begeisterung im
    Web weiter verbreitet und dabei auch noch weiter verf\xE4lscht werden.\"\r\n(Mr.
    Bruno Steinert at http://praegnanz.de/weblog)"
  created: '2006-03-26 22:21:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Spelling? Forget spelling.\r\n\r\nWhat would be nice is if an education in
    Sanskrit came bundled with\r\nan appreciation of some good ol' fashioned Eastern
    lateral brainwaves,\r\nlike using words in a pragmatic, human, and in the end
    useful way.\r\n\r\nBTW, German is on my list. But it's competing with Dutch and
    Russian.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-26 23:07:08'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I\u2019m hoping now, that this issue will cease to twitch.</em>\r\n\r\nJust
    when it's getting so surreal? I'm thinking of staging the last two dozen posts
    as an ATypI fundraiser."
  created: '2006-03-27 02:36:11'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Here is a brand-new article by Brian Livingston\r\nincluding a short interview
    with Steve Matteson:\r\n\r\nhttp://itmanagement.earthweb.com/columns/executive_tech/article.php/3601421\r\n\r\nFor
    the \"Q\" and \"&\" etc. see also page 3 of file:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/segoe2.pdf\r\n\r\nUli"
  created: '2006-04-28 08:47:06'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "1. New development concerning my message of 15th March 2006\r\n\r\nIn my
    message of 15th March (scroll up to this message in this thread) I mentioned that
    Microsoft as a monopolist has repeatedly ignored the EU anti-trust laws and that
    at that time in March the European Anti-Trust Commission instituted a new lawcourt
    action against the illegal behaviour of Microsoft.\r\n\r\nToday, 12th July 2006,
    Microsoft was sentenced to a compulsory monetary fine of 280,000,000 Euros (roughly
    350,000,000 Dollars) due to the fact that Microsoft refused to comply with the
    European laws. The supreme anti-trust commissioner Mrs. Neelie Kroes clearly (and
    with a grain of sarcasm) stated in the decision that even the huge company Microsoft
    is not permitted to ignore the laws and is not allowed to rise above the laws.\r\n\r\n2.
    New development concerning my message of 13th March 2006\r\n\r\nIn my message
    of 13th March (scroll up to this message in this thread) I stated that the decision
    of 6th February 2006 of the EU invalidity division against Microsoft concerning
    the illegal font Segoe was eligible for court appeal by Microsoft within the next
    two months.\r\n\r\n  For legal details on appeals see http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/segoe.pdf
    etc.\r\n  Especially read law file http://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/segoe4.pdf,
    page 23\r\n\r\nMicrosoft which seems to have recognized and accepted that Segoe
    is an illegal font, did NOT make such a court appeal against the EU decision.\r\n\r\nThis
    non-appeal has the legal consequence that the font Segoe is illegal and remains
    illegal, at least in the European Union. And this means that selling the illegal
    font Segoe as component of the forthcoming new version of Windows (\"Windows Vista\")
    will be illegal, at least in Europe.\r\n"
  created: '2006-07-12 12:54:39'
- body: "<a href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=136\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=136</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=135\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=135</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=134\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=134</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=133\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=133</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=132\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=132</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=131\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=131</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=130\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=130</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=129\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=129</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=128\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=128</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=127\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=127</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=126\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=126</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=125\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=125</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=124\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=124</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=123\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=123</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=122\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=122</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=121\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=121</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=120\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=120</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=119\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=119</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=118\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=118</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=117\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=117</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=116\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=116</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=115\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=115</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=114\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=114</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=113\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=113</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=112\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=112</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=111\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=111</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=110\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=110</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=109\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=109</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=108\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=108</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=107\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=107</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=106\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=106</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=105\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=105</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=104\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=104</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=103\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=103</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=102\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=102</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=101\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=101</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=100\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=100</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=99\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=99</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=98\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=98</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=97\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=97</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=96\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=96</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=95\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=95</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=94\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=94</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=93\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=93</a>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=92\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=92</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=91\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=91</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=90\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=90</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=89\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=89</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=88\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=88</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=87\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=87</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=86\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=86</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=85\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=85</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=84\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=84</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=83\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=83</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=82\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=82</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=81\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=81</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=80\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=80</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=79\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=79</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=78\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=78</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=77\">http://csmaster.sxu.edu/mcauley/phpbb2/viewtopic.php?t=77</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=397\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=397</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=447\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=447</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=446\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=446</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=445\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=445</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=444\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=444</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=443\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=443</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=442\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=442</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=412\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=412</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=411\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=411</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=410\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=410</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=409\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=409</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=408\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=408</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=407\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=407</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=406\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=406</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=405\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=405</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=404\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=404</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=403\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=403</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=402\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=402</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=401\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=401</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=400\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=400</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=399\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=399</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=398\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=398</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=427\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=427</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=426\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=426</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=425\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=425</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=424\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=424</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=423\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=423</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=422\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=422</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=420\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=420</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=421\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=421</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=419\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=419</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=418\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=418</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=417\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=417</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=416\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=416</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=415\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=415</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=414\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=414</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=413\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=413</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=442\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=442</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=441\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=441</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=440\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=440</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=439\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=439</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=438\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=438</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=437\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=437</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=436\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=436</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=435\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=435</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=434\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=434</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=433\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=433</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=432\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=432</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=431\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=431</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=430\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=430</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=429\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=429</a>\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=428\">http://www.pucpr.edu/facultad/hvera/forum/topic.asp?TOPIC_ID=428</a>"
  created: '2007-05-24 17:29:04'
date: '2006-03-01 08:08:02'
title: The latest in Microsoft's Segoe Saga - from Le Times

---
