---
author:
  name: paul d hunt
  picture: 109422
body: I always get outbid at the very last second. how do i keep this from happening.
  what do these people know that i don't know. please enlighten me. >^P
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "It's called sniping and it's evil :-( \r\n\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sniper_(auction_bid)
    \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-03-03 15:59:47'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Just figure out the most you are willing to pay for something and bid it
    at the end. You will either win it or not. If not, have no regrets\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-03-03 16:00:16'
- author:
    name: lil dingbat
    picture: 111378
  body: "I don't use eBay myself, but I know that there's some sort of automatic bidder
    that it has, so that you put in your maximum amount you'd pay for it, and eBay
    will bid for you automatically topping whatever the highest bid is until you've
    reached your max. \r\n\r\nGo to the very bottom of the screen and see if you find
    this text field:\r\nYour maximum bid: <TEXT FIELD> US $\r\n<SUBMIT BUTTON>\r\neBay
    automatically bids on your behalf up to your maximum bid.\r\n\r\nhope this helps!"
  created: '2006-03-03 16:01:36'
- author:
    name: Guerella
    picture: 110740
  body: "http://www.auctionsniper.com/\r\n\r\nI don't personally use a service like
    this, But I usually bid high and only bid in the last 30 to 60 seconds. The only
    thing bidding before then does is drive the price up."
  created: '2006-03-03 16:02:55'
- author:
    name: maxack
    picture: 111408
  body: "Yes, as Guerella said, bidding early only drives up the price. I would recommend
    the following, which I found to be working for me:\r\n\r\n1. Make up your mind
    and set yourself a maximum price\r\n\r\n2. In the last 40 seconds or so (depending
    how fast your connection is and how fast you are with a mouse), bid around 10%
    less than your maximum price (this way, any other bidders will think this is your
    maximum bid and will probably only want to outbid you by the minimum amount)\r\n\r\n3.
    Refresh the page after around 5 sec and see if you have been outbid\r\n\r\n4.
    If yes, bid your maximum price quickly, as there are around 10 sec left\r\n\r\n5.
    Now you either win or lose, but maximised your chances and did not use any evil
    snipers; and, just as Paul said: no regrets as you did not spend more money than
    you intended!\r\n\r\n\r\nGood luck!"
  created: '2006-03-03 16:27:09'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I have a kitchen timer and have 2 windows open, one of the item page, and
    one of the bid confirmation page ( after puttin in max bid ). Set the timer for
    like a minute before the end of auction. Put a cut it down to like 10 seconds
    and BAM. Usually get it that way. BTW, sniping is how you win, never bid before
    then, anyone who bids early is inflating the price. If your more interested in
    being nice, or getting your stuff?
  created: '2006-03-03 16:58:20'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sniper_(auction_bid)</em>\r\n\r\ni KNEW
    there had to be something like this\r\n\r\n<em>If your more interested in being
    nice, or getting your stuff?</em>\r\n\r\ni'm interested in inflating the price
    for the snipers! "
  created: '2006-03-03 17:57:58'
- author:
    name: dstype
    picture: 111104
  body: Don't tell me that you didn't won that magnificent Goudy book from the 20's!!
    I saw that you were bidding, so I didn't even tryed to get it. But it was a really
    nice piece of work.
  created: '2006-03-03 20:06:32'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Don't pay much attention to other bidders. Just calmly assess what your top
    price is and bid it at the end. If you get outbid - you didn't lose - someone
    else paid too much. EBay is perhaps the perfect exploitation of our competitive
    urges. Don't get caught up in it\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-03-03 20:07:41'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "I got this snipe-style for like 20 bucks. #1 of 500. Huge Goudy portratin
    watermark in front and back, My 1 prized possesion of type.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g2e.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g1e.jpg]\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/g3e.jpg]"
  created: '2006-03-03 21:52:01'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "That is a beautiful thing\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-03-04 00:56:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nice item, Eric. I use the same method you do. I think manual sniping is
    fair; I don't approve of these automated services though, and take satisfaction
    is believing that I manually outsnipe them. I also prefer the term gazumping,
    which originated in the UK housing market (when someone comes along and puts in
    a higher offer on a house after yours has been accepted but before the papers
    are signed).\r\n\r\nMy most desperate sniping moment was when I was walking along
    the street and suddently remembered that an auction I had planned to bid on was
    ending in five minutes. I ran around with my Palm Pilot, desperately trying to
    find a strong and open wireless signal. Found one. Got logged in to eBay. Got
    to the item. And then lost it (in more than one sense) when the bid page didn't
    load quickly enough. Sort of sad and embarassing. I can't even remember what the
    item was now.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-04 05:59:57'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "John:\r\nAhhh, 'bay-rage' I have experienced as well. The first few times
    a used my current bid technique was quite a rush. It was like in the westerns
    '...seconds from high noon.' The rest of the world fades, and all you can do is
    focus. focus. focus. Anyway I managed one decent save. I was bidding on a really
    nice camera bag, and it ended at 9am, and I left for school early as to get there
    so I could bid, but when I got there, there web connection was down, so with like
    a minute spare, called my dad, got it with 10 seconds shy. Booya.\r\n\r\nPaul:\r\n\r\n<em>If
    your more interested in being nice, or getting your stuff?\r\ni\u2019m interested
    in inflating the price for the snipers!</em>\r\nAnd yourself!"
  created: '2006-03-04 07:16:10'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>And yourself!</em>\r\n\r\nwell since i never win..."
  created: '2006-03-04 16:24:17'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "I think Eric, John, Max, and Forrest are right--nothing ethically suspect
    about sniping. I share John's distaste at the software-based sniping out there,
    but I'm not sure I could back that judgment up with anything but my gut. I speak
    as an experienced sniper (mostly good writing pens and leather goods). The rules
    are what they are: information about what buyers will pay is not distributed evenly
    and is revealed in a certain order, and people learn to take advantage of the
    structure to pay less for an item than they might have to otherwise. It's like
    bluffing in poker--whether the people who write the rules wanted it or not, it's
    become part of the whole point of the game.\r\n\r\nIt doesn't hurt the losing
    bidders so much as the seller, by the way, if you think about it: it compresses
    the real bidding period into a few minutes, but unlike in a live real-time auction,
    that time isn't continuous--there's the connection and database update delay--so
    despite the pressure and the thrill of competition, the last bidders could never
    get the price as high as they would if they were face to face in the same room
    and could raise the bid with a flick of the hand or nod of the head.\r\n\r\nNever
    overlook the entertainment aspect of eBay--it's what made the site so popular
    (besides the thrill of selling someone your ratty old bedsheets for $30). eBay
    does allow sellers to conduct blind auctions, where sniping is impossible or pointless
    (though the more neurotic of bidders might try it anyway).\r\n\r\nIf the competition
    leaves you cold, then Paul C's advice is best: you figure out what you'll pay
    for the piece, set your maximum bid, and wait until the auction is over. Me, I'm
    too much of an adrenalin junkie."
  created: '2006-03-04 17:06:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I have hit refresh so many times I'm exhausted\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-03-04 17:17:28'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "I agree with the \"set your price and stick with it\" approach: just set
    your price realistically (Paul: don't expect to pick up a copy of the 1912 Western
    Type Foundry specimen book for less than $20), and bid as late in the game as
    possible.\r\n\r\nIf you find yourself bidding on type-related items against <strong>goudyos,
    intypenut, pialley</strong> or <strong>st.gregory</strong>, don't bother...these
    guys have DEEP pockets, and have spent BIG bucks on rare specimen books. On the
    other hand, sometimes real goodies sneak under the radar: I picked up a less-than-stellar-but-still-quite
    adequate copy of the Barnhart Brothers &amp; Spindler Specimen Book #25 for $14.99,
    which was the opening price. I was willing to pay quite a bit more, but nobody
    else bid on it, so I stole it. I feel so ashamed...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-04 18:40:29'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: I think those are Nick's alternate account names. ;)
  created: '2006-03-04 18:48:22'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "I both sell and buy on eBay and there are a number of successful strategies
    for winning. Coming in at the last moment with a high bid is obviously the most
    common, and automated sniping is based on that. But that all depends on the item,
    bidding history, relative value, obscurity, etc. \r\n\r\nSometimes an early placement
    (bid a low amount initially) will scare off other potential bidders. A seller
    likes an initial bid as it has the potential of attracting other bidders, and
    is a guaranteed sale, but not necessarily a high sale (as it might well indeed
    have dissuaded other bidders).\r\n\r\nThe best way to play the eBay game is to
    do the research. Know what the market value of the item is. The value of antiquarian
    and collectible books, for instance, can easily be determined by a trip to abe.com.
    It's often unusual that a known book will go over 40% of the dealers price. I
    usually bid the lowest dealer price and rarely lose, and most often, get the item
    for a much lower price. But it is a game played best only if you really want the
    item.\r\n\r\nIt is best to carefully study the item description. How much you
    will have to pay in shipping, condition of item, method of payment. It pays to
    take a good look at the seller, other items for sale, feedback history. There
    is nothing worse than being disappointed when the package arrives, and to some
    extent, you could have avoided that simply by paying a bit more attention to both
    description and seller's feedback. Though this can work to your advantage. If
    a seller doesn't offer PayPal, has high or undisclosed shipping rates, has a poor
    record in regard to shipping and packaging, etc., that seller's items are not
    going to gather substantial bids.\r\n\r\nIt pays to study other listings for relative
    sale price as well. If there is a similar item up during the duration of bidding,
    that will could result in the items selling for less. Also, if the seller has
    described the item poorly in the subject heading or listed it in an inappropriate
    category, that can result in a lower auction price as well. But, sometimes sellers
    will do this on purpose because the potential buyers who do find the item are
    in game mode.\r\n\r\nMost importantly, look at the feedback of other bidders for
    the item. Their past bidding strategies are revealed here. \r\n\r\nTime of sale
    is important as well. A clue is to look at the numbers of folks using this list
    at any given time of the day and on specific days of the weeks. Web activity begins
    late Sunday night and tapers off by Thursday afternoon. Best time to buy and worse
    time to sell is during the off peak period. And during holidays. An acquaintance
    of mine picked up a photopolymer platemaking machine\u2013which, because of its
    relative scarcity, has a common value of $3,500 and often goes for that\u2013for
    $500 simply because the seller had the item ending on Christmas Eve.\r\n\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-03-04 19:17:40'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'll give you an example: I was bidding on a mid-century coffee table by
    John Keel. The bids had barely reached $600 at the last moment. It was worth $800
    to me. I bid in the last moment and got it for $710. Suddenly it became a bargain.
    I used to be very competitive and obsessive when I first started using Ebay 8
    years ago, but eventually figured out that worked against me and for the sellers
    and Ebay itself so I only bid once on an item and if that doesn't \"win\", I don't
    \"lose\"\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-03-05 01:40:44'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "<em>It\u2019s called sniping and it\u2019s evil :-( </em>\r\n\r\n<em>I think
    manual sniping is fair; I don\u2019t approve of these automated services though,
    and take satisfaction is believing that I manually outsnipe them.</em>\r\n\r\n<em>I
    share John\u2019s distaste at the software-based sniping out there, but I\u2019m
    not sure I could back that judgment up with anything but my gut. </em>\r\n\r\nJeez,
    are you guys still using buggy whips too? You talk like computers had never been
    invented. I buy and sell on eBay and have used a snipe service for years. I don't
    have time to hang around waiting for an auction to go off, I have a life -- and
    grandchildren to play with. I also don't want to bother getting up at some ungodly
    hour for an auction in some distant time zone or worry about bidding from a foreign
    country while traveling. This is what computer technology is for, to make your
    lives easier. Set your bid on the snipe service and win or lose without crying
    or gloating.\r\n\r\nThe term sniping itself even implies there's something neferious
    about the practice when there isn't. I've sat through antique auctions in small
    midwestern towns on hot summer nights and big money auctions (art deco furniture)
    at Christies. The serious bidders come in at the end. It's not sniping, it's smart
    bidding. You wait for the amateurs to fade and the other serious bidders to come
    out. Bidding at auction really is a \"use it or lose it\" situation and if you
    won't use all the tools and techniques available then you're not that serious.
    \r\n\r\nPeople seem to think there's some sort of honor pretending they're standing
    in a dusty street blazing away like a gunfighter? Honor on eBay is doing right
    by your buyers and sellers not about how you bid your auctions. Well, go ahead
    and call me names for using a service, I'll take the stuff.  \r\n\r\nIf you want
    a recommendation for a good snipe service I use: \r\nhttp://www.snip.pl/en/my.
    \r\nThey're inexpensive and pretty reliable.\r\n\r\nGeorge\r\n\r\nI felt bad because
    I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Maurice Meilleur
      picture: 109643
    body: "George:\r\n\r\nThe word \"sniping\" wasn't coined by anyone on this list,
      so far as I know, and in any event, your disbelief is a bit misguided: of the
      three people you quote, two of them are self-confessed (and, speaking for myself,
      unapologetic) snipers who agree with your view that last-minute bidding is smart;
      no one here thinks computers are bad; and no one except Si called anyone names
      (and I would guess that Si doesn't <em>really</em> condemn the morality of those
      who snipe).\r\n\r\nLike I said (and as you quoted me saying), I <em>can't</em>
      think of any real reason why I would have any distaste for automatic sniping
      except my gut, and my gut is not an argument. If I <em>had</em> to think of
      a reason, I guess it would be that introducing such mechanisms creates tiers
      or classes of buyers: those who can afford such products and gain an advantage,
      and those who can't and don't.\r\n\r\nBut again, on the other hand, there are
      already classes of buyers: for example, I have a job flexible enough to allow
      me to keep an eye on auctions during the day; I have internet connections both
      at home and at work; I have the resources to participate and bid high (though
      not nearly as high as some on eBay can), and so on. So I don't think that argument
      goes very far.\r\n\r\nMaybe the only thing I would have to say against software
      bidding (beyond that contained in the eBay system itself) is this: that using
      the software to snipe takes the fun out of the process. Imagine the person who
      sits at the poker table and, every time the bet comes to her, uses a PDA or
      calculator to figure her odds and those of the others at the table and bets
      or folds accordingly. It may be instrumentally rational, but it sucks the suspense
      and psychological guesswork (not to mention the competitive camaraderie) out
      of the process.* But again, that's a gut reaction, and not everyone thinks of
      eBay for its entertainment value.\r\n\r\nSo relax: we like you. Snipe away in
      peace.\r\n\r\n* No, this is not a perfect analogy. Anyone sitting at a poker
      table who saw one player doing this, and could assume she knew what she was
      doing and that she always bet or folded accordingly, would be a fool to bet
      against her. She'd never win as much as she would if she bluffed and could tell
      when her opponents were bluffing, or not."
    created: '2006-03-06 13:42:03'
  created: '2006-03-06 04:30:27'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Hi George\r\n\r\nI don't think I'd use a sniper service anymore than I would
    steal via bit-torrent \"file sharing.\"\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, are those modified
    sportsmen in your little pic there? I used to race when I was in college.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-03-06 04:51:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">no one except Si called anyone names (and I would guess that Si doesn\u2019t
    really condemn the morality of those who snipe).\r\n\r\nAs I knew the answer to
    Paul's initial question I wanted to get an answer posted quickly. Being only an
    occasional ebay'er I've learned a lot from this thread. As for the evil quip,
    I was thinking of the automated sniping services, and upon reflection, evil is
    too strong - how about I change it to \"Sniping is evil, as in Google ;-)\" \r\n\r\nThis
    thread is a bit like ebay. Leave it to the amateurs to chime in early, then the
    experts come in to give the real answers. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si  \r\n"
  created: '2006-03-06 18:47:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Ahhhh, a Sii of relief :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nComic relief"
  created: '2006-03-06 19:22:14'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t think I\u2019d use a sniper service anymore than I would
    steal via bit-torrent \u201Cfile sharing.\u201D\r\nOn the other hand, are those
    modified sportsmen in your little pic there? I used to race when I was in college.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    bit torrent is stealing, sniping isn't. What I objected to is people casting aspersions
    on something because they don't want to do it. It is what it is, there's nothing
    illegal, immoral, or unethical about it and trying to make it seem so is poor
    sportsmanship. People use proxy bidders in auctions all the time. There are those
    who make their living as proxy bidders. I don't see that using software instead
    of a person somehow makes it unfair. I'm not on eBay for recreation but to obtain
    things -- right now a lot of type specimens -- or sell things. I understand people
    get frustrated when they think they're going to win something and get outbid in
    the last seconds. I missed an excellent Hamilton specimen that way which is one
    of the reasons I use sniping. I don't use it all the time, but do for those auctions
    I'm not going to be able to bid on in person. \r\n\r\nThe winning bidder is the
    one who bids the most. Whether the bid is the first one or the last one. If you
    got outbid then you didn't bid enough. It doesn't matter if the one who outbid
    you did it at the end or not. Ebay has a mechanism to set a maximum bid amount
    that gives you the opportunity to beat sniping so if you don't like snipers use
    it, just make the maximum high enough.\r\n\r\nI reacted to the \"evil\" comment
    because I felt it was overboard. A guy who committed mass genocide is being tried
    on the other side of the world. What he did was evil. What I do in sniping is,
    at most, annoying. And it wouldn't be annoying if people were serious about using
    eBay.\r\n\r\nAs for the photo they're sprint cars, 1960s I think. One of them
    is Mario Andretti, but I don't know which one. I raced motorcycles, flat track,
    for awhile after college, but I was already too old to be competitive. Little
    kids were blowing by me laughing. There's an indoor go-kart track near me and
    I plan on trying that as I still would like to do some racing before I really
    am too old. If I can beat the eight year olds I going to pursue it this summer.\r\n\r\nGeorge\r\nI
    felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2006-03-06 20:03:52'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "And back to the reason we started reading this topic: Gerald's advice pretty
    much covers it. EBay does have a maximum bid system so you can set a high amount
    but it won't show up. EBay just bids you up to that figure. For some reason people
    don't see that as being naughty like sniping. Any snipers who come in at the last
    second and bid below you will lose out automatically. Don't bid too early as some
    bidders will just chip away by bidding up the minimum until they figure out what
    your maximum bid price is. Or get frustated and go away.\r\n\r\nAnd sometimes
    you can beat the guys oldnick mentioned -- they gotta eat sometime -- but not
    often. \r\n\r\nGeorge\r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man
    who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2006-03-07 16:42:41'
date: '2006-03-03 15:51:50'
node_type: forum
title: Share your ebay secrets?

---
