---
author:
  name: Stephen Lording
  picture: 109670
body: "What do you all think of the National Australia Bank\u2019s new logo? \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/National-nab.jpg]\r\n\r\nYet
  another rendered 3D icon with all lowercase text. All l/c seems to be the first
  stop for convincing people you\u2019re \u2018friendly and approachable\u2019 these
  days. Or has it always been that way? What is it about lowercase that\u2019s so
  friendly? Is it just the variations in character height creating a looser feel,
  in the same way that ragged text creates a less formal look than justified text?
  \r\n\r\nIf they are trying to be more friendly, the 'friendly' type seems at odds
  with the strong, bold colours, and I don\u2019t think the rendered logo and flat
  text fit with each other. Can\u2019t a logo be good anymore without being all 3D?
  \r\n\r\nI know the old type\u2019s Futura, but what\u2019s the new one? \r\n\r\nTypographical
  issues aside, I find it bewildering that a bank would choose to identify itself
  with a word that means, \u2018to take or grab suddenly\u2019 and \u2018to catch
  and arrest a criminal\u2019. I mean, their candour is refreshing, but none the less
  surprising."
comments:
- author:
    name: creativecentral123-spammer
  body: "I was thinking  that ANZ advertising is done by M&C Saatchi Melbourne its
    really  done great  recently.\r\n\r\nI am doing my job with <a href=\"http://www.creativecentral.com.au\">Brand
    Agency Sydney</a> and i like to do that really."
  created: '2013-01-21 05:31:59'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "It beats out UBS\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-03-08 03:03:05'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "Ah, I discussed this with my friend the other day. It was one of these rare
    occasions where we both agreed completely with each other. She\u2019s in marketing
    and we usually agree to disagree on everything! I think combining <strong>nab</strong>
    and red/white on black is a bad idea, it looks absolutely criminal.\r\n\r\nFrom
    <a href=\"http://www.theage.com.au/articles/2006/02/13/1139679535212.html\">The
    Age;</a>\r\n<cite>\"The bank's rebranding has been characterised by marketing
    experts and banking analysts as an attempt to assert a new identity after it discovered
    rogue traders on its foreign exchange desk had lost $360 million through shonky
    accounting.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nMaybe we can expect more shonky accounting. :)\r\n\r\nIt
    was <a href=\"http://www.rco.net.au/\">Richard Henderson</a> who was behind this.
    He was behind the ANZ rebranding a few years back. Hit-and-Miss I guess."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Stephen Lording
      picture: 109670
    body: 'Yeah, I really like a lot of the ANZ advertising stuff, but he hasn''t
      got me with this one. I don''t mind the seriousness of the colours; I think
      too many banks are trying to portray themselves as your best mate from next
      door, and it can come off as too casual and unprofessional. I want my bank to
      be focussed on business, not heading out with me to the pub. I think it''s just
      the lowercase and the fact that it now says ''nab''. I''ve never heard anyone
      say ''nab'', only ''National'' or ''N.A.B'', so I find it strange that the bank''s
      encouraging people to use a name with such an obvious alternate meaning. '
    created: '2006-03-08 06:17:25'
  created: '2006-03-08 03:35:48'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "I think the ANZ advertising is done by M&C Saatchi Melbourne which has done
    great stuff recently.\r\n\r\nI know a few people who work for 'nab' and they refer
    it as 'nab' not 'N.A.B'. I'm not sure if the NAB scandal is completely forgotten,
    but I think changing to 'nab' doesn't play to their favour since their image isn't
    squeaky-clean.\r\n\r\nAs for the colour, perhaps they bought in more black to
    differentiate NAB from Westpac. I can get confused between the two from a long
    distance (i.e. signage/atm).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/wbk-l.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/nab.png]"
  created: '2006-03-08 06:44:46'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: It could be much, much worse.
  created: '2006-03-08 07:44:41'
- author:
    name: James Arboghast
    picture: 111003
  body: "I like this new National Australia Bank logo.\r\n\r\n<em>It could be much,
    much worse.</em>\r\n\r\nExactly. It really isn't that bad.\r\n\r\nThe font is
    Lucas De Groot's <a href=\"http://www.fonts.com/FindFonts/detail.htm?pid=413733\"
    target=\"_new\">The Mix</a>. I've been waiting about five years for this variety
    of progressive type design to graduate to mainstream use with major corporations.
    All power to Lucas.\r\n\r\n3D---what 3D?\r\n\r\nI think you're overeacting to
    something new, simply because it is new and not the same as its predecessor. Try
    not being so cynical. Accept things at face value and avoid projecting your personal
    values onto them.\r\n\r\nPeople who work inside the corporation and industry insiders
    refer to it as \"nab\", but that phraseology does not---has not---filtered into
    common parlance, so the perjorative meaning of \"nab\" isn't a big issue. Certainly
    the new ad campagne on television does not call it \"nab\".\r\n\r\n<em>I\u2019ve
    never heard anyone say \u2018nab\u2019, only \u2018National\u2019 or \u2018N.A.B\u2019...</em>\r\n\r\nThis
    is what I mean.\r\n\r\n<em>...the \u2018friendly\u2019 type seems at odds with
    the strong, bold colours...</em>\r\n\r\nI don't see how. How is it that those
    forms are at odds with the bold color scheme? Give it a break.\r\n\r\n<em>I think
    combining nab and red/white on black is a bad idea, it looks absolutely criminal.</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    does it evoke \"criminal\"? I think you guys just don't want to like it, without
    coming up with good reasons why its bad.\r\n\r\n<em>All l/c seems to be the first
    stop for convincing people you\u2019re \u2018friendly and approachable\u2019 these
    days. Or has it always been that way? What is it about lowercase that\u2019s so
    friendly? Is it just the variations in character height creating a looser feel,
    in the same way that ragged text creates a less formal look than justified text?</em>\r\n\r\nPartly,
    yes. But fundamentally, Latin capitals are synonymous with iron-fisted authority,
    officialdom and rigid social formality. They're an invention of the ancient Romans,
    who too often valued pompousness and grandeur above human concerns. The roman
    Latin capital forms draw on the formal, constructed, component-based nature of
    classical architecture---Roman & Greek temples and official public buildings.
    They're based on circles, squares, triangles, straight lines and right angles---perfect
    Euclidian geometry the ancients assumed was indelible and unalterable, imune to
    any fault or criticism.\r\n\r\nAll of that stuff was deeply concerned with authority,
    and an even more inflexible idea---the all-powerful will of the ancient gods who
    supposedly ruled people's lives. Latin capitals have been employed ever since
    by people in positions of power to assert their dominance and authority.\r\n\r\nIn
    the present political atmosphere where corporations and govenments are held accountable,
    scutinized for corruption and abuses of power, even the tiniest failure to account
    for their liabilities, a typographic depiction of authority is the last thing
    a powerful corporation like a bank wants as its public face. So yes, it is a determined
    effort at appearing human and freindly. For a large bank that's paradoxical, since
    large banks are extremely powerful and noted for their inflexibility towards customers.
    But that's marketing.\r\n\r\nStart with the assumption that all advertising is
    a big fat lie. Too bad the intention is phoney. Expect nothing and you can't be
    disappointed. Nevermind the insincere will of those who fabricate these lies.
    Separate politics from design. I know, I know, they're related---the first causes
    the second. But it is possible to ignore that aspect and appreciate art & design,
    however commercial, for its own sake, for what it is rather than the company it
    represents.\r\n\r\nThere is much more to typographic design and this logo design
    than may be first realized. It isn't just a matter of lower case versus caps.
    Significantly, the lower case forms in this logo are of a humanist design. Humanism
    started in the Renaissance period; the movement symbolized the rejection by scholars
    and artists of the oppressive empirical governance of the Holy Roman Empire and
    the Church, and the rise of the independent city states in Europe, the exemplary
    model being the very first---Florence.\r\n\r\nWith the rediscovery of ancient
    knowledge, in particular Aristotle's <em>Organon</em> \"The tool\" (a philosophical
    device that allowed ordinary people to demystify all that baffled them), along
    with the architect Brunelleschi's discovery of central perspective (in painting),
    the seven liberal arts and with the study of nature became separated for the first
    time from state and church, prompting the humanists to place man at the center
    of the world, in place of God, man as determiner of his life as an individual
    and of his own destiny.\r\n\r\nThe creators of the new N.A.B logo may not have
    had all that in mind when they chose The Mix as the font. But humanist cultural
    values are ingrained in the letter forms regardless, and they do carry specific
    meaning thru their visual sense. This humanist aesthetic is not present in Latin
    capitals or geometric sans serifs. The Mix has serifs too---a reference to the
    humanist antiqua type model. That is the kind of rationale I would use to select
    The Mix instead of a traditional book roman or a geometric face. You want good
    public relations? Avoid industrial art & design as well.\r\n\r\nj a m e s"
  created: '2006-03-08 10:14:28'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "> <em>The font is Lucas De Groot\u2019s The Mix. I\u2019ve been waiting about
    five years for this variety of progressive type design to graduate to mainstream
    use with major corporations. All power to Lucas.</em>\r\n\r\nNope <a href=\"http://www.fontshop.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=catalog.fontdetail&displayfontid=FK.108404.0.1&attributes.sampleSize=48&sampleText=nab&sampleSize=48\">it's
    not</a>. TheMix looks way better, this is a quite poor attempt."
  created: '2006-03-08 10:33:46'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "<cite>How does it evoke \u201Ccriminal\u201D? I think you guys just don\u2019t
    want to like it, without coming up with good reasons why its bad.</cite>\r\n\r\nOkay,
    maybe using the word \"criminal\" was too bold. I was only trying to add some
    colour to my language. :) \r\n\r\nGood reasons? Well I think I've given my reasons
    why I think it's poor. I don't think it's necessarily bad as a rebrand was long
    overdue.\r\n\r\nThanks Yves, I was sure it wasn't TheMix.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 10:52:50'
- author:
    name: noftus
    picture: 111246
  body: "Futura is a bit 90's isnt it?\r\n\r\nIts amazing how many times the 'nab'
    has changed its name in the last 10 years:\r\n\r\nNational Bank of Australia ->
    National Australia Bank -> National -> nab\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 11:15:32'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: "James: full-on reply! Thanks for taking the time.\r\n\r\nYeah, I know it
    could be worse. They could have used the colour palette for the <a href=\"http://www.melbourne2006.com.au\">Commonwealth
    Games</a>. As I said before: I like the colours and I don\u2019t really mind the
    star; I\u2019m mostly concerned with the lowercase text.\r\n\r\n<cite>How is it
    that those forms are at odds with the bold color scheme? Give it a break.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    think the strong colours and the gleaming star create a look and feel that is
    almost militant. Can I scoot around Godwin\u2019s Law by saying a certain well-known
    political party selected those colours for a reason? ;-) Then you glance down
    and there\u2019s this informal, hello!, da de da, bit of text that - for me -
    just doesn\u2019t quite fit. It\u2019s too casual in contrast to the other elements.\r\n\r\n<cite>3D\u2014-what
    3D?</cite>\r\n\r\nSure, it\u2019s not all singing, all dancing 3D, but it still
    has a bevelled effect. Maybe I\u2019m wrong, but I feel like it should be one
    style or the other. Render both or neither. \r\n\r\nI don\u2019t think I\u2019m
    being cynical or projecting too much, but if I\u2019m the only person who double-takes
    at \u2018nab\u2019, well, good luck to them. Many happy banking returns, etc,
    etc. :-)\r\n\r\nSo it\u2019s not The Mix. Is it a custom job then?"
  created: '2006-03-08 12:58:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I think it looks okaaay. It is easier on the eye than the old one. The eye
    takes it in faster ( recognizes it ) too. Thats a major consideration. I think
    that it might have been smarter or cooler to use a warmer red to play up the australianess
    (sp?) - but then I am a yank & I don't know how aussies feel about colors. Also,
    having to color match all the time might be too expensive. As far as 'nab' goes
    - I think people are getting more & more used to acronym-homonyms of in media.
    For instance for me, 'CIA' brings 3 organizations to mind readlily. The US gov
    arm, Culinary Institute of America, and the Cleveland Institute of Art ( http://www.cia.edu
    ), if I was Canadian the list would no doubt be longer. Now, is the design wonderful?
    No. It isn't. But It will probably serve the company better than the old logo
    which was was a pig's breakfast. Also, if they decide to reverse black & white
    later it will be easy & no one will notice very much.
  created: '2006-03-08 17:39:22'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "The design is by  Richard Henderson:\r\n\r\n http://www.smh.com.au/news/business/revised-logo-nab-tries-for-a-fresh-start/2006/02/06/1139074167908.html
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n* * * * * \r\nDon't sit. Act!!!\r\nGlobal Warming Melts
    The Poles. Cities from New York to London could also be swamped by rising seas.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 18:08:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yves are you saying they just nabbed the Mix or that it was a licensed modification?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-08 18:17:25'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "Nah, it's not based on TheMix. At first sight it resembles <a href=\"http://www.urwpp.de/deutsch/home.html\">that
    Siemens slab serif</a> a bit.\r\n\r\n<em> \"(...) this is a quite poor attempt\"</em>
    was a quite poor literal translation from Dutch. ;^P"
  created: '2006-03-08 19:30:44'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Does the star make anyone else think \"that's your slice and this is the
    bank's slice\" or possibly hesitation cuts? Also looked rather Canadian at first
    glance.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-03-08 20:33:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My first blink at it said \"Star of David\" but the cuts said \"Sprint\"
    (old logo) or Gillette razor. I don't know the brand so I had no notion of prior
    history.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-08 23:00:56'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: I would like to know the rationale behind the cuts, and why they've shrunk
    in the new logo. Was it just an aesthetic decision? I think the old ones look
    like a couple of coin slots, maybe for a large piggy bank, but the new ones look
    like slices, or notches carved into a stick.
  created: '2006-03-09 00:02:18'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> I would like to know the rationale behind the cuts\r\n\r\nContact Mr. Henderson
    and ask him....\r\n\r\ninfo[@]rco.net.au\r\n\r\n* * * * * \r\nToday is International
    Women's Day. Hey, be nice to your wife/girlfriend. Everyday.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-09 00:11:23'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: "I emailed that address, and was told that they get a lot of questions about
    this, but that they didn\u2019t actually do the rebranding \u2013 it was the principles
    in Sydney who handled it. I asked if they knew anyone in Sydney I could ask, but
    they didn\u2019t. They did however do some good ol' googling on my behalf, and
    directed me to The Age article Geoff linked to above. Which, now that I reread
    it, says:\r\n\r\n<cite> The seven-pointed red star remains, but its two lines,
    originally intended to mark the merger of Commercial Bank and National Bank of
    Australasia, have been tapered to look more \"dynamic\".</cite>\r\n\r\nAah, dynamism.
    Is there anything it can\u2019t do? :-) So there I go."
  children:
  - author:
      name: george77
    body: "For a more detailed 'rationale' for the rebranding, try\r\n\r\nhttp://www.principals.com.au\r\n\r\nIt's
      all there...\r\n\r\n\"Our task was to translate their strategy and positioning
      into a compelling brand identity and look and feel.\r\nThe new logo is just
      that. Friendly lower case NAB. A bolder brighter star. And a striking black
      background provides the stand out that distinguishes NAB from the other red
      and white banks in Australia.\""
    created: '2006-08-15 07:43:42'
  created: '2006-03-09 02:07:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "How about an arrow to prove they are \"forward looking\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-09 02:48:20'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: "Yves, I'm curious what fault you find with the type? How is The Mix better?\r\nIt
    seems well constructed to me. I might add a little contrast, but it seems like
    preference.\r\n\r\nIn gereral I think it's nice. The disadvantage I see is that
    they've lost their grid. Before, the star's parallel sides framed the N (never
    noticed that about a 7 point star). Now it's balanced, but not as tight. They
    still use it horizontal (http://www.national.com.au/About_Us/0,,175,00.html?ncID=ZBA)
    but the proportions feel a little too equal between mark and type in this format.
    But overall ... workable. No reason for outcry IMO.\r\n\r\nR"
  created: '2006-03-09 18:33:43'
- author:
    name: Jem
    picture: 110289
  body: "If the new logo is intended to be just a refinement of the old logo, then
    it is a success. \r\n\r\nIf the new logo is intended to be a signifier that the
    National Australia Bank is reinventing itself as a new and different bank from
    its old incarnation, then I think it falls short. The change is so subtle it just
    says to me \"we are re-doing our stationary\" not, we are the new NAB."
  created: '2006-03-09 21:50:45'
- author:
    name: gareth
    picture: 109885
  body: "National Bank of Australia -> National Australia Bank -> National -> nab\r\n\r\nI
    live in Australia and I was not even aware \"nab\" was the National Australia
    Bank. It just goes to prove that the logo retouch seems to be an impatient upgrade.
    \r\n\r\nTake for example the Shell and Ontario Trillium upgrades. Slow, decade
    and generational changes. When you fidget too much with your identity too much,
    especially for a Bank (stable, secure, professional), it obviously signifies trepidation
    amongst its upper ranks.\r\n\r\nAs for the lower case phenomena. THANK GOD!\r\n\r\nLower
    case feels balanced in this case. Why should there need to be a hierarchy suggested
    in the logo? \r\n\r\nNot that I mind upper case in logos. But their absense does
    not painfully harm a good branding.\r\n\r\nAs for the use of the acronym NAB.
    Sounds like a very comical choice. Perhaps the designer knew he could get away
    with providing a diservice for the client.\r\n\r\nViva le Revolucion!"
  created: '2006-07-22 13:09:35'
- author:
    name: oknovokght
    picture: 111742
  body: .
  created: '2007-08-11 12:40:41'
- author:
    name: LanaJ
  body: What is it with company rebrandings leading to even more out-dated looking
    logos (i.e. this, Gap, etc.)? Talk about ironic.
  created: '2013-01-21 05:58:27'
- author:
    name: ulu_ria
  body: "This re-branding really worked for me; goes with the trend. Even Bank of
    America did a rebranding but that was more drastic change. Check this article
    <a href=\"http://www.logorium.com/blog/35-famous-logo-redesigns\" rel=\"dofollow\">Famous
    Logo Redesigns</a>.\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-26 14:10:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Talk about ironic.</em>\r\n\r\nOK. \r\nIf a business has been around
    long enough that its original logo is in danger of coming back into fashion, then
    it\u2019s time to nip that retro cachet in the bud. A well-established corporation
    shouldn\u2019t look hip, but bland and mainstream, because it is.\r\n"
  created: '2013-01-26 16:49:37'
date: '2006-03-08 02:22:25'
node_type: forum
title: National Australia Bank's new logo

---
