---
author:
  name: Corey Holms
  picture: 110575
body: "Hello all.\r\n\r\nI am doing some research on the typeface Haas Unica and was
  wondering if anyone here might have some information on it.\r\n\r\nCurrently what
  I have is basic information about Team 77, and the typeface's inception there. Followed
  by it being digitized by Scangraphic, but not how the rights were acquired or any
  of that info. Then I get to E+F buying the Scangraphic catalog, but due to legal
  issues, Haas Unica is no longer distributed.\r\n\r\nIf anyone can fill in the sketchy
  details I have above, I would really appreciate it. Thanks in advance.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: lettertiep
    picture: 110360
  body: "you can find some more here, but Hrants link for buying the font is dead.
    \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/4840\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Corey Holms
      picture: 110575
    body: thank you
    created: '2006-03-08 14:04:07'
  created: '2006-03-08 09:53:19'
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: "So after a little more digging, I have run into a bit of a snag. Two reputable
    sources have given me conflicting reports. \r\n\r\nI originally heard that it
    was Scangraphic who digitized and released the typeface, and when E+F bought their
    catalog, E+F ran into some legal problems that have lead to the typeface being
    discontinued. Then from another source, I have heard that URW digitized it (but
    never released it) only to have it distributed by The Font Company, with no explanation
    to why it is no longer available.\r\n\r\nDoes anyone know the correct story? "
  created: '2006-03-08 17:32:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I love Unica, and am highly miffed that it's no longer on the market.\r\nI
    haven't gone to the trouble of figuring out the sordid legal details as\r\nto
    why this has happened, but I can help you on the typographic front:\r\n1) I can
    mail you a copy of a uniquely detailed\r\nbooklet outlining the development of
    Unica.\r\n2) I can put you in touch with Andre Gurtler.\r\n\r\nBTW Corey, since
    you're in the area you might be interested in\r\nsigning up for my type design
    class at ArtCenter next semester.\r\nPreviously: http://typophile.com/node/15756\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 17:40:05'
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: "WOW!!!\r\n\r\nThank you so much Hrant - I will email you offline to get more
    info on all three things. Thanks SO much."
  created: '2006-03-08 18:02:18'
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: So, a little further digging has revealed that there were TWO digital versions
    - one by Scangraphic and another by Font Company. Both were copyrighted in 1990.
  created: '2006-03-08 23:11:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Huh.\r\n1) Which was the one that was being sold? (Both?)\r\n2) Which one
    is better?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 23:24:40'
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: My understanding is that both were commercially available. I do not know the
    difference between the two though.
  created: '2006-03-08 23:33:46'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Scangraphic, URW and Elsner+Flake are all based in Hamburg and frequently
    collaborated and exchanged data. They all worked in Ikarus. Given the vast amount
    of typefaces that needed to be digitized in the early 1990s, I kind of doubt that
    these companies produced two separate digital versions from scratch. It's more
    likely that the same Ikarus data was used but perhaps converted separately into
    the Type 1 format. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-03-09 14:18:18'
- author:
    name: Corey Holms
    picture: 110575
  body: Very interesting twardoch, thanks for filling in the gaps.
  created: '2006-03-09 17:07:17'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "I called Elsner+Flake to see if I could buy font/get a Licence. They said
    that it was not available due to a naming copyright issue. (big shame)\r\n\r\nI
    was looking to buy it in the mid 90's but was put off by the (what I thought was
    an irregular) Cap R. More recently I have rediscovered the font and its power
    is strong. So much so I decided to redraw Light lowercase for a logotype I am
    working on. Because I drew up 16 letters, I thought I would go the whole way.
    This was good as it makes to re-look at the work you have already done.\r\n\r\nMy
    feeling is that it embodies \"form is function\" absolutly - and this is its beauty.\r\n\r\nYou
    can see my effort here:\r\nwith a couple of interesting links regarding Andr\xE9
    G\xFCrtler and rasterizing/beziers.\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.flickr.com/photos/ekusupo/192527000/\">Unica
    Deux Light Lowercase</a>\r\n\r\nhernan"
  created: '2006-07-18 22:49:46'
- author:
    name: Michael Hernan
    picture: 111011
  body: "With regards to versions - there WERE 2 versions by Scangraphic 1 for body
    text and one for headlines which was kerned really close. (I dont know if there
    were any other modificartions)\r\n\r\nSB = Scangraphic  Body\r\nSH = Scangraphic
    Headline\r\n\r\nhernan"
  created: '2006-07-18 23:01:26'
- author:
    name: garden
    picture: 111571
  body: "Looks outstanding. Anything changed? Haas unica avaliable for download /
    buy?\r\n_____________________________________________\r\n-\r\ngolden ratio of
    passion. sansogno.coastaldisturbance.com"
  children:
  - author:
      name: sangwooksohn
      picture: 109726
    body: "You can still purchase Scangraphic's version of Hass Unica from following
      site:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.graphicobsession.fr/index.jsp?url=http%3A//www.graphicobsession.fr/typos/listgraisses%3F%26text%3Dunica%2520sb&media=type\r\n\r\nOnly
      SB versions are available for sale, no SH versions though.\r\n"
    created: '2007-05-01 16:00:47'
  created: '2007-02-14 21:42:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Awesome news!\r\n\r\nGuys, buy this <cite>immediately</cite> before somebody
    sends some lawyers or something.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 17:00:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: I would rather own a copy of the promo doc that explains the innovations.
  created: '2007-05-01 18:52:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You mean copy as in photocopy?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 18:55:38'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Sure! \r\n\r\nAbsolutely. \r\n\r\nOr even PDF.\r\n\r\nNot that I don't see
    the value of comparing outlines directly in ana editor but it's the ideas themselves
    that count for me!"
  created: '2007-05-01 19:04:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The idea behing Unica isn't revolutionary - it's simply to make a better
    Helvetica. The documentation of the process is what's pretty unique. Which is
    not to say the font is pointless: it's the perfect thing for weening people of
    Helvetica.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-01 19:13:07'
- author:
    name: sangwooksohn
    picture: 109726
  body: "I have found a place where I can purchase both SB and SH families of Hass
    Unica typefaces from Scangraphic, but the price is too expensive for me. :(\r\n39.50
    Euro for each font!! 16 styles=632 Euro\r\nNot that they do not worth 39.50 Euro
    each, but it's just way out of my reach.\r\n\r\nsigh..."
  created: '2007-05-02 15:08:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Where's the source?\r\n\r\nYou might tell me in private, and then I can pass
    it along to\r\nwhoever asks for it (as long as I don't suspect they're a mole).\r\n\r\nhpapazian_at_gmail_dot_com\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-02 21:20:18'
- author:
    name: Guy
  body: The link above seems to have both the SB and SH versions?
  created: '2007-05-13 18:47:03'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yes. I see both now too. Just put 'Unica' in the search.
  created: '2007-05-14 08:44:01'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I got a copy of the Haas Unica promotional piece* and I have to admit it
    is pretty outragously compelling stuff. Unica is an amazing improvement on Helvetica.
    The next step for me is to look at Haas Unica vs. Univers...\r\n\r\n* Thank you
    Hrant!"
  created: '2007-05-19 19:49:56'
- author:
    name: sangwooksohn
    picture: 109726
  body: "Eben, could you give me little more details on Haas Unica promotional piece?
    I wonder what that is. :)\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-20 19:58:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Hrant sent it to me. It is a piece made by Haas to promote their ( then )
    new type. I have not seen the original-  just the photocopies. It''s maybe 14
    pages long ( 7 pages front to back ). The part that I was pleased with was the
    parts where they detail the changes made & charcterize their thinking. The transparency
    of that is wonderful. Also, when you look at the Haas Helvitica vs. The Unica
    the difference is quite something. What would be great is to look at Regular &
    Neu vs. Unica. But tjis may not be helping... What kinds of details do you want
    to know? '
  created: '2007-05-20 20:26:03'
- author:
    name: sangwooksohn
    picture: 109726
  body: "Eben,\r\n\r\nThanks for the information. You've given me enough details.
    :)"
  created: '2007-05-20 21:44:14'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Eben/Hrant can you post that promotion piece here as a PDF? It sounds very
    intriguing.
  created: '2007-05-20 23:47:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think making it public in its whole would be beyond Fair Use.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 20:45:41'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Hrant, if it was a *promotional* piece I think that would argue ethically
    that there is no problem disseminating it. This was not an item for sale, and
    its dissemination would tend to benefit whoever holds the rights to Haas Unica.
    However, I don''t know what the legal situation is.  '
  created: '2007-05-21 21:00:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, the booklet is sort of a promotional piece (in an academic, not commercial
    way) but it's also an extract from a Typografische Monatsbl\xE4tter article, or
    maybe even the whole article... In cases like this I'd rather err on the side
    of caution.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-21 21:14:09'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: Okay, fair enough. Can you give the info on where and when it was published?
    They might have it at the Typographic Library here in Amsterdam.
  created: '2007-05-22 05:12:59'
- body: At Cialis online that time, the blood vessels that <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=88&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>buy
    cialis </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=89&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>levitra
    side effects </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=90&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>natural
    viagra </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=91&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>buy
    prozac </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=92&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>buy
    soma lowest prices </a> <a href=http://campus.murraystate.edu/academic/faculty/fred.miller/hkmkt/thread.cfm?ThreadID=93&messages=1&Reply=FALSE>discount
    viagra </a>
  created: '2007-06-09 11:39:20'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Update: The full promotional piece is here \r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/bauldoff/2389151563/ "
  created: '2008-04-28 19:59:50'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: Is the font still unavailable? No way to get it through special ways?
  created: '2008-04-30 13:31:25'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: As far as I know it is sill unavailable. What "special ways" did you have
    in mind?
  created: '2008-04-30 17:28:03'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "Like somebody who could resell it further even if it's not available online,
    or somebody giving it since there is no way to pay for it.\r\nIt's very sad that
    an interesting typeface like this can't be avaiblable for some legal issues or
    don't exactly know what. It's not like ripping somebody off. Anyway, even if it's
    not for sale anywhere, some people have it, that is a very strange situation.\r\n\r\nEdit:
    I realise how my english sucks. But i think people get the point."
  created: '2008-04-30 22:42:16'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "It is like ripping someone off if you simply take it or trade it while the
    people that own the font's IP don't want to sell it or give it away. I think that's
    their right, and the courts would back that up. \r\n\r\nIf anybody offers to give
    it away on typophile, we will block that link and potentially take stronger action
    as well.\r\n\r\nEven though it was a great font ( i think ) there is certainly
    no shortage of good sans fonts to pick from now so I think you can't really say
    you NEED it. You would like to have it. There is a difference. \r\n\r\nIf you
    want to learn from it however, the files I have linked to will help with that."
  created: '2008-05-01 00:30:14'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: Which brings up the question, what do you do with a font that you purchase
    legally that comes into a legal conflict after the fact and then is taken off
    the market? What do you do with a client that is using that font?
  created: '2008-05-01 02:17:13'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: That's a good question. I would have hard time 'punishing' a client who had
    legally bought the font. You could always contact the foundry in question if you
    had an idea they had been wronged by the seller - that would be the big thing
    to do. A middle path might be to ask to extend the license from the legit owners
    of the IP when & if you needed additional licenses. The policy for extending an
    existing license might be different than a new purchase. But yes, it's a bit grey.
  created: '2008-05-01 02:53:26'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Thanks for hazarding a guess. In my case the digital font's creator, I suspect,
    was contacted by the creator of the original pre-digital type and the font was
    taken off the market because of some conflict or misunderstanding. I had used
    the font in an identity\u2014before it was removed from the market. It was for
    a friend, and is a rather small business. I\u2019ve been thinking about it though.
    Not only have I sold an identity and several rounds of printed matter, I could
    possibly have put my client in a legal situation, and in turn myself in regards
    to the foundry that digitized and sold the font.\r\n\r\nA not so funny turn on
    the usual font piracy issue. Maybe I should hike my prices on other jobs to compensate
    for the potential legal liability until the selling foundry clears its legal claim
    to the face and puts it on the market again. I\u2019m sort of laughing as I type\u2026"
  created: '2008-05-01 03:59:32'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "The schizophrenic behaviour of many American Typophiles concerning the US
    Copyright Law is highly interesting from the psychiatric point of view:\r\n\r\nAlthough
    the monograph \"From Helvetica to Haas Unica\" written by Schwind et al. is a
    literary work protected as per section \xA7 102 (a) (1) of the US Copyright Law,
    Mr. Eben Sorkin did not hesitate to specify the download link to this work offered
    by Joe Bauldoff by way of copyright infringement.\r\n\r\nHowever, when someone
    asked for the Haas Unica font via download link, the very same Mr. Sorkin said:\r\n\r\n<strong>\"If
    anybody offers to give it away on typophile, we will block that link and potentially
    take stronger action as well.\"</strong>\r\n\r\nThis behaviour is schizophrenic.\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-01 12:01:41'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Schizophrenia, as a condition that could be \"diagnosed by a professional\",
    is a problematic term. The fact that humans contradict themselves could be a condemnation
    of the entire species as mentally ill, or being of two minds could actually be
    an evolutionary benefit. This is pure speculation.\r\n\r\nThe fact that we, on
    this forum, focus on copyright law in regards to font creation is more of a proximity
    bias I would suggest. For the group, copyright law in regards to images and written
    word IS more lightly policed.\r\n\r\nAny Adobe Formata users out there?"
  created: '2008-05-01 13:11:15'
- author:
    name: andyclymer
    picture: 110580
  body: "Out of curiosity I was able to pick up a license for a couple weights from
    that Graphic Obsession link above (from sangwooksohn on May 1, 2007) which now
    seems to be dead, but I'm really put off by how poor the digitization is...this
    font is definitely looking for a bit of a restoration if it's ever able to be
    properly released again.\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-01 21:13:24'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "\"It is like ripping someone off if you simply take it or trade it while
    the people that own the font\u2019s IP don\u2019t want to sell it or give it away.
    I think that\u2019s their right, and the courts would back that up.\"\r\n\r\nYes
    of course. What I meant was, the goal is not to steal a font. I would not do it,
    the goal was to see if there was a way to get the font legally. I don't know what
    is going on with this font (why it is not available now). I was hoping that maybe
    it was not a law issue regarding the files, so that i could get it directly from
    the owners or any reseller (legally).\r\nOf course i don't really need it. Did
    I say that? It would be just cool to have it. As a swiss graphic designer I must
    say i has more interest in this font than in a lot of other \"grotesk\" fonts
    on the market now. Even if there is a lot of choice, i think there isn't that
    many really interesting alternatives to fonts like helvetica (not that i use it
    that often) that have the same power in the design. My 2c."
  created: '2008-05-02 08:13:50'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I see . Yes, If I was working in a swiss style the appeal of a real Haas
    Unica would be really really powerful. That makes abundant sense. I would like
    to be able to buy it or even revive it. But it isn't possible as far as I can
    see. In any event if I was to harsh with you I am sorry. Are you Thibaud Tissot
    or Yassin Baggar BTW?\r\n\r\nAs to the IP comments: Not only is the use of \"schizophrenic\"
    woefully imprecise - the reasoning about the IP issues is as well. \r\n\r\nThe
    font is a thing for sale - or was. that is one kind of thing.\r\n\r\nPromotional
    materials that had been made public; and that are being used - not to be resold
    -  for academic/didactic or even autodidactic purposes are clearly another. If
    I published a book and included the images and made a profit or was attempting
    to; a line would be being crossed. If I was charging to see the images on a CDR
    the same would be true, or online or in any other media.\r\n\r\n<cite> definitely
    looking for a bit of a restoration </cite>\r\nAndy, that is sad news indeed."
  created: '2008-05-02 09:14:25'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "No problem, i know how my message could be confusing...\r\nI'm Yassin."
  created: '2008-05-02 12:22:02'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Eben Sorkin:\r\n\r\n<cite>The font is a thing for sale - or was. that is
    one kind of thing. Promotional materials that had been made public; and that are
    being used - not to be resold - for academic/didactic or even autodidactic purposes
    are clearly another. If I published a book and included the images and made a
    profit or was attempting to; a line would be being crossed. If I was charging
    to see the images on a CDR the same would be true, or online or in any other media.</cite>\r\n\r\nIf
    you were able to read the US Copyright Law, you would discover that the law does
    not speak of \"thing for sale\", of \"promotional materials\", etc. If your schizophrenic
    reasoning would reflect the US Copyright Law, then the literary works of non-for-profit
    (e.g. religious etc.) organisations, which are distributed free of charge, would
    not be protected by copyright.\r\n\r\nHrant Papazian was the only person at this
    Typophile site who was able to recognize that offering for download the monograph
    \u201CFrom Helvetica to Haas Unica\u201D in its whole without permission by the
    authors is illegal and constitutes a copyright infringement. Mr. Papazian wrote
    (see above):\r\n\r\n<strong>\"I think making it public in its whole would be beyond
    Fair Use.\"</strong>\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-02 16:02:10'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Uli, have you examined the 'fair use' doctrine, a part of the US legal code?
    \r\n\r\n\"Notwithstanding the provisions ... the fair use of a copyrighted work...
    for purposes such as criticism, comment, news reporting, teaching (including multiple
    copies for classroom use), scholarship, or research, is not an infringement of
    copyright. \r\n\r\nIn determining whether the use made of a work in any particular
    case is a fair use the factors to be considered shall include:\r\n\r\n       1.
    the purpose and character of the use, including whether such use is of a commercial
    nature or is for nonprofit educational purposes;\r\n       2. the nature of the
    copyrighted work;\r\n       3. the amount and substantiality of the portion used
    in relation to the copyrighted work as a whole; and\r\n       4. the effect of
    the use upon the potential market for or value of the copyrighted work.\"\r\n\r\nBecause
    this work was a short promotional piece, never made for sale [reason 1] and because
    its dissemination can only help sell Haas Unica, if it is ever revived [reason
    4], and because this posting is not for sale but for educational purposes, there
    is a solid case for it being \"fair use\".  \r\n\r\nI don't know how a court would
    rule--and it will never be an issue--but your name-calling is not called for.\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-02 18:28:54'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Berkson:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Uli, have you examined the \u2019fair use\u2019
    doctrine, a part of the US legal code?\"</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, I did.\r\n\r\nI reread
    the US copyright Law sections quoted by you (and also checked other legal sources),
    and I came to the conclusion that Mr. Joe Bauldoff (NOT Mr. Sorkin, of course,
    as Mr. Sorkin only made the link to Bauldoff's flickr site) committed a copyright
    infringement.\r\n\r\n1)\r\n\r\nMr. Bauldoff, who uploaded the copyrighted monograph,
    gave the following explanation here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/bauldoff/sets/72157604393470536/\r\n\r\n<cite>\"After
    holding onto this <strong>report</strong> for some time, I feel it should be available
    to everyone. I am no typographer, but this accomplishment and the methodical thought
    that went into it fascinates me.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThis is Mr. Joe Bauldoff's excuse
    for uploading a copyrighted work. Obviously, this excuse is neither criticism,
    nor comment, nor news reporting, nor teaching, nor scholarship, nor research,
    as specified by section \xA7 107 of the US Copyright Law, and hence his upload
    of the copyrighted literary work was no fair use, but an unfair copyright infringement.\r\n\r\nThose
    who downloaded the copyrighted monograph offered by Mr. Bauldoff, made short comments
    such as these:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Thanks for sharing!\"\r\n\r\n\"Thanks for uploading
    this, Bauldoff.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nSuch notes are neither criticism, nor comment,
    nor news reporting, nor teaching, nor scholarship, etc. etc., and hence such \"thanks\"
    comments do not legalize the illegal upload made by Mr. Bauldoff.\r\n\r\n2)\r\n\r\nIf
    uploading an entire copyrighted work for download would be fair use, then uploading
    the Haas Unica font itself for download would be fair use too.\r\n\r\nFor instance,
    at a Russian website (I do not mention the link, because Mr. Sorkin would remove
    it), I have just read:\r\n\r\nQuestion: <cite>\"Does anyone have Haas Unica? It
    used to be available from Scangraphic (pre 2004), but it is no longer. Thanks.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nReply:
    <cite>\"Here is Haas Unica (original, 8 weights, Type1)\"</cite>\r\n\r\nThe uploader
    could have added the same explanation, as was given by Mr. Bauldoff, after replacing
    the word \"report\" by the word \"font\":\r\n\r\n<cite>\"After holding onto this
    <strong>font</strong> for some time, I feel it should be available to everyone.
    I am no typographer, but this accomplishment and the methodical thought that went
    into it fascinates me.\"</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-02 20:10:59'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "Cheers Yassin!\r\n\r\nUli, if you want to ask the owners if they think it's
    \"fair use\" or not to share images of what is an advertisement - go ahead. I
    would be interested in their take. It is possible that Hrant's idea about it is
    right. Maybe I am missing something. But in the meantime look into \"fair use\".
    Admittedly it is something which is still quite fuzzy legally speaking and may
    take some time to understand. But as Bill points out it really does seem to cover
    this instance very very well.\r\n\r\nAlso, please look up \u201Cschizophrenic\u201D.
    The popular use of the word to mean \"of two or more minds or personalities\"
    is misleading. Further using it as an Epithet is also marginalizing for people
    who suffer from it and doesn't help people to understand the illness or to treat
    it properly."
  created: '2008-05-02 20:25:42'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: All this lawyering and not a lawyer in site. Until a lawyer asks Eben to remove
    the link, well, it is all speculation.
  created: '2008-05-02 20:36:39'
- author:
    name: Joe Bauldoff
    picture: 112247
  body: "I believe this is the first time I've caused a controversy... Unless we count
    the time my mom thought I shoplifted... but I finally found the receipt, so all
    ended well.\r\n\r\nLong before the Unica document appeared on Flickr, I had been
    trying to think of any possible party or individual that I would harm by this
    display. It is SUCH a beautiful reference to the meticulous care and thought behind
    the development of this type. To me, it is too lush an educational/inspirational
    resource to hoard to myself. I come from a long line of hoarders, so this was
    a big deal for me.\r\n\r\nI will, of course, remove the document if any relevant
    legal body says the word, or if I discover someone that I AM presently harming
    by this. That is very much a concern of mine.\r\n\r\nI do have to commend you,
    Uli, on your rabid advocacy. Perhaps it is naive, but I do find a sizable difference
    between making this near-thirty-year-old extinct document readable for the internet
    community, versus setting up a download of the potentially-commercially-viable
    Unica font files. If I discover ANY applicable individuals that I am harming by
    doing what I am doing, I will most CERTAINLY remove the display. \r\n\r\nI'm not
    trying to be a dirty pirate to get the attention I never got in junior high. I
    don't want \"atta-boy\" credit for this. My intentions are of the purest. I just
    want type lovers to have the chance to breathe in the mastery and impressively
    shrewd attention that went into this imprisoned face. This was to be a sort-of
    Helvetica 2, and that feat just BEGS to be recognized... ESPECIALLY in light of
    Unica's hibernation.\r\n\r\nThanks to all for your support.\r\n\r\nJoe \"Sybil\"
    \ Bauldoff"
  created: '2008-05-02 22:11:45'
- author:
    name: ybaggar
  body: "The document is educational by it's nature. I don't think the uploader needs
    to write \"i put this for educational purposes, please only download it for this
    usage.\"\r\n\r\nI reread the topic about haas unica and it confirmed what i was
    afraid: the font is <strong>apparently</strong> unavailable because of some stupid
    legal issues regarding to who has the name now after some business blabla. I know
    this is how things works in that business, but that really sucks regarding the
    users. This shows, IMHO, the problems of copyrights and ownership at some level.
    Unless it is the strong desire from the designers team or the original owners
    to not make it available now, there is no good reason to keep that font on the
    shelves, it's stupid.\r\n\r\nAnyway, i found that pdf about Andr\xE9 G\xFCrtler's
    work, with some bad quality scans but also some vectors, with some letters of
    the Haas Unica (what a marvelous a). I hope it is okay to make it available here,
    or i'll edit the message: [[http://www.klingspor-museum.de/KlingsporKuenstler/Schriftdesigner/Guertler/AGuertler.pdf]]\r\n\r\nI
    hope this message doesn't look to aggressive. It's just disappointment about a
    situation i can't understand."
  created: '2008-05-03 01:00:04'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Joe Bauldoff:\r\n\r\n<cite>I will, of course, remove the document if
    any relevant legal body says...</cite>\r\n\r\nThis would be futile, since other
    internet users grapped the copyrighted monograph uploaded by Mr. Bauldoff and
    have already made it available for download at other websites. And e.g. a certain
    Mr. Philip Sterne now offers the copyrighted monograph as a PDF file made on the
    basis of Mr. Bauldoff's scans. See here:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.inference.phy.cam.ac.uk/pjs67/FromHelveticaToHaasUnica.pdf\r\n\r\nThe
    famous old Latin proverb\r\n\r\n<cite>\"Et semel emissum volat irrevocabile...\"</cite>\r\n\r\n(\"Once
    it has been sent flying out, it cannot be called back\")\r\n\r\nis particularly
    true for those who upload copyrighted works to the internet without permission
    by the authors of these works.\r\n\r\nFor instance, in this way, by uploading
    to the internet, the huge font collections, e.g. Linotype's Gold Edition, Adobe's
    Font Folio, Scangraphic's rip-off collection (including the Haas Unica font),
    etc. etc., are now available to everyone for free download, in the very same way
    as the Hass Unica monograph uploaded by Mr. Baulhoff: <cite>\"Et semel emissum
    volat irrevocabile...\"</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-03 08:39:07'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Eben Sorkin:\r\n\r\n> Also, please look up \u201Cschizophrenic\u201D. \r\n\r\nI
    used this word as a misnomer to make Typophiles happy who are wont to use misnomers
    such as \"stealing\" copyrighted works (you cannot \"steal\" them), font \"software\"
    (fonts are no computer programs and font designers are no computer programmers),
    and similar legal misnomers.\r\n\r\nInstead of \"schizophrenic\", I could have
    used the legel expression \"venire contra factum proprium\", but I preferred to
    use the misnomer so that Typophiles are happy."
  created: '2008-05-03 09:03:53'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "^ now you\u2019ve posted a link to the pdf yourself, but I guess that is
    fair use because the intent was educational? \r\n\r\n [[http://www.ehow.com/how_2126938_make-dog-stop-humping.html|Halp!]]\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-03 12:57:05'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Nice one James. But next there will be excuses and lame arguments presented.
    RE: "Happy". Uli you are just being silly to dodge my complaint and you know it.
    It''s best to ignore (probably). Not that I set a good example.'
  created: '2008-05-03 13:04:05'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: '@Eben: You''re right, that is an interesting article when they  document
    the letter-by-letter improvements. To my eye they''ve given the G an overbite,
    but otherwise they look like thoughtful edits. Like you, I think a closer comparison
    to Univers would be interesting. Do you think the name Unica was intended to evoke
    UNIvers?'
  created: '2008-05-03 15:26:28'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "<cite>Do you think the name Unica was intended to evoke UNIvers?</cite>\r\n\r\nUNIvershelvetiCA"
  created: '2008-05-03 16:12:21'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Oh, of course, duh on me. \r\n\r\nThen I wonder if the brief was to create
    a Helvetica/Univers hybrid, but the article spins it more as an improved Helvetica
    (though Univers is considered in the first part)."
  created: '2008-05-03 18:49:58'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "When people have spoken to me about it they generally refer to it as a Hybrid
    between Helvetica and Frutiger. Or maybe I am misrecalling. But in either event,
    the idea that it a Frutiger-like letter is maybe providing inspiration has been
    said before. I do love how much better it sets massed on the page. And i love
    that you can go through and consider what might be helping with that. It's always
    possible they left something out in the provided list. Or that the change listed
    isn't helping that much or is a kind of indifferent change, so stay critical.
    But in general I am grateful that they made such a lovely and useful promotional
    document. Although it seems obvious to me that it is clearly better in massed
    text, I am not sure that Haas Unica would be better in display. \r\n\r\nThe other
    thing is that I wonder if anybody ever made optical-size specific shapes in the
    Metal days for Helvetica. I have an idea that That Haas Unica had no such thing
    because I think they would have had film based typesetting in mind. Haas Unica
    is listed as releasing in 1980. Adobe Postscript is introduce in 1984. "
  created: '2008-05-03 20:48:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Eben is quite right - this is the commonplace error of using \"schizophrenia\"
    to mean \"multiple personality disorder.\" Two quite different, unrelated things.\r\n\r\nBut
    then, accurate usage of language has never been a concern of Uli's. I wonder how
    long it will be before a person or corporation either threatens to sue him for
    libel, or actually does so? (Not that I'd encourage such an action. Most of us
    have better things to do with our time, and even if one was victorious, the satisfaction/damages
    would not likely be worth the cost.)\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-05 01:49:40'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> either threatens to sue him\r\n\r\nThomas Phinney:\r\n\r\nWhy don't you
    sue the Russian websites that offer the entire Adobe Font Folio collection for
    free download? Maybe, in Russia, you find a mentally disordered judge who has
    the psychotic delusion that fonts are \"computer programs\" written by \"computer
    programmers\".\r\n"
  created: '2008-05-05 17:09:07'
- author:
    name: nlx
  body: "Unica was designed to make a better Helvetica\u2026 but we're talking about
    the old Helvetica right ? Not the Neue version ?"
  created: '2008-05-14 14:34:08'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: 'Neu is not really equivalent to Haas Unica because they are still quite different.
    In what way? HU would still be better for longer & smaller texts I think. At large
    sizes the distinctive qualities of Neu might make it better or less suitable depending
    on the context of use. HU is a less attention grabbing design. That''s my impression. '
  created: '2008-05-14 17:04:35'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Florian, maybe Unnicca?
  created: '2008-05-17 04:25:22'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: Yunyka?
  created: '2008-05-17 07:36:55'
- author:
    name: AGL
    picture: 114388
  body: Yunyka spells just right
  created: '2008-05-18 00:05:44'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "\u042E\u043D\u0438\u043A\u0430."
  created: '2008-06-12 01:15:47'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "BTW, if Linotype gets away with selling \"Basic Commercial\", which is a
    renamed clone of Akzidenz Grotesk, they might just go ahead and invent a new name
    for Unica. \r\n\r\nHelvers? ;)\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2008-06-12 01:17:38'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "H\xFCnilkers"
  created: '2008-06-12 02:05:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "In Office Space tradition...\r\n\r\nHass Clown"
  created: '2008-06-12 02:09:24'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "I think if they own the rights to it they perhaps aught to call it \"Helvetica
    text\". That's it's natural use to the extent it has one. I don't think it is
    as strong as regular Helvetica at large sizes but I think it does beat it handily
    at smaller sizes. Then they could do optical versions etc and really get the $
    flowing. \r\n\r\nOr do a full merge over the sizes and let them morph over the
    size range. Then it might be called \"Helvetica Neuer\" or perhaps \"Helvetisimo\"
    later versions could be \"Helvetisisimo\" and so on. ;-)"
  created: '2008-06-12 08:13:12'
- author:
    name: Florian Hardwig
    picture: 112260
  body: "Adam: <cite>which is a renamed clone of Akzidenz Grotesk</cite>\r\n\r\nA
    clone? I thought it actually <em>is</em> AG, at least that is <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/7483#comment-50932\">what
    you wrote</a>.\r\n\r\nBtw, you now can purchase the Berthold AG from <a href=\"http://www.linotype.com/261297/akzidenzgrotesk-family.html\">Linotype</a>,
    too."
  created: '2008-06-12 11:59:59'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Basic Commercial is a renamed version of AG, i.e. a clone (same \"genetic
    material\", i.e. practically an identical copy). Just like Humanist 777 is a renamed
    clone (or \"alternate cut\" ;) of Frutiger. \r\n\r\nBTW, Arial is not a Helvetica
    clone, it is an imitation. \r\n\r\nA,\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-13 13:10:41'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\nAdam, have you been hanging out with Uli? "
  created: '2008-06-13 14:30:21'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Si, \r\n\r\nno, with John Downer ;) \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2008-06-14 17:24:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hmmm, that means you're not really Adam.  ;-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2008-06-14 21:13:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Hmmm, that means you\u2019re not really Adam. ;-)\r\n\r\nAh, an Adam forgery!
    ;-)\r\n\r\nOn a more serious but equally off-topic note it would be interesting
    to get John Downer's take on Albany, Liberation Sans and custom corporate fonts
    that use the metrics of Arial? Are these imitations of Arial? "
  created: '2008-06-15 02:18:20'
- author:
    name: Lechorl
    picture: 119474
  body: "Hi,\r\n\r\nI am one of very few to be lucky to purchase on time from Fontshop
    in Berlin Haas Unica. I was in 2000. Since mid 80; I was using it in my corporate
    designs, ID etc. When I'd heard about Mac version I immediately bought Unica.
    My Swiss typography teacher from Zurich Mr Paul Buhlmann recommended me Unica
    as a mix of Universe and Helvetica elements. I have never came across of any designer
    using Unica. Yes it was Team 77. Note: Unica is not in sale anymore.\r\n\r\nregards,\r\nLech\r\n\r\nhttp://www.swiss-miss.com/2008/04/from-helvetic-1.html\r\n\r\nhttp://ministryoftype.co.uk/words/article/haas_unica/\r\n\r\nhttp://typedia.com/explore/typeface/haas-unica/"
  created: '2010-03-14 22:55:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Those links point to a PDF and a set of hi-res images of the entire Unica
    specimen booklet. Since that specimen was published in Typografische Monatsblatter,
    aren't those copyright violations?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-03-14 23:05:50'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Hrant:\r\n\r\n> <cite>Those links point to a PDF and a set of hi-res images
    of the entire Unica specimen booklet. Since that specimen was published in Typografische
    Monatsblatter, aren't those copyright violations?</cite>\r\n\r\nWhile the reproduction
    of the alphabet is not copyrightable, the German-English-French descriptions contained
    in the booklet reproduced here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.flickr.com/photos/bauldoff/sets/72157604393470536/\r\n\r\nare
    copyrightable as a literary work:\r\n\r\nsee US Copyright Act, \xA7 102 (a) (1):
    Literary Works"
  created: '2010-03-15 08:27:28'
- author:
    name: hardik
  body: Hi Corey,  I read your article. So you also in research & development like
    me. I am from London. Your research regarding the Haas Unica.As per my knowledge
    its develop in 1980s. and it comes form the Helvetica. I also do the research
    for the pharmacy tablets which are available in market like anti biotic, pain
    killers; power booster i.e generic viagra & many more. This pills are not having
    any side effect. But before taking this pill please consult the doctors.
  created: '2010-09-21 13:12:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Impressive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-21 13:14:15'
- author:
    name: clauses
    picture: 112142
  body: lulz
  created: '2010-09-21 13:38:26'
- author:
    name: kentlew
    picture: 110411
  body: "I removed the spam link and blocked the account, but I left the post because
    Hrant\u2019s right: it truly is an impressive piece of hand-crafted spamming.
    ;-)"
  created: '2010-09-21 13:44:35'
- author:
    name: hossgifford
  body: "I hope you don't construe this as spam, but those of you with an interest
    in the most wonderful Haas Unica might be interested in my clock app. I've more
    information up at http://itsaclock.flamjam.com\r\n\r\nAnd here are some quick
    links\r\n\r\niPhone version.\r\n[[itms://itunes.apple.com/us/app/its-a-clock/id353873328|itms://itunes.apple.com/us/app/its-a-clock/id353873328]]\r\n\r\nAndroid
    version.\r\nhttp://bit.ly/itsandroid\r\n\r\nI look forward to hearing your opinion
    on how Haas Unica looks in this context.\r\n\r\nBest, Hoss."
  created: '2011-02-14 12:56:09'
- author:
    name: RG
  body: "<blockquote>With regards to versions - there WERE 2 versions by Scangraphic
    1 for body text and one for headlines which was kerned really close. (I dont know
    if there were any other modificartions)\r\n\r\nSB = Scangraphic Body\r\nSH = Scangraphic
    Headline\r\n\r\nhernan</blockquote>\r\n\r\nScangraphic's SH was letter-spaced
    tightly (like Hernan says \"really close\", it is indeed really close; a bit too
    much for today's taste). Apart from this letter-spacing difference, the SB bears
    those little notches/adjustment (\u0916\u093E\u091A\u093E\u0916\u0933\u0917\u093E)...
    I'm forgetting what they're called in English... ink-traps ??\r\n\r\nRG"
  created: '2011-04-01 02:19:13'
- author:
    name: Counterform
    picture: 123368
  body: "Linotype Neue Haas Unica\r\nhttp://www.linotype.com/1300979/NeueHaasUnicaProUltraLight-product.html"
  created: '2014-05-07 08:32:28'
- author:
    name: Birdseeding
    picture: 121722
  body: Cool. Will be interesting to see what comes off the whole project. Probably
    harder to butcher than Metro was. ;)
  created: '2014-05-07 09:55:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Fantastic news.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2014-05-07 21:58:10'
date: '2006-03-08 01:18:57'
node_type: forum
title: Haas Unica research

---
