---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "Jeremy Tankard's latest... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.inuitpaper.com/arjowigginsinuitfont.htm\r\n\r\nCheers,
  Si"
comments:
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Having spent a little time in the arctic, in what is now Nunavut, I'm a little
    taken aback by this. I suppose it's no different from Mohawk Paper, or Shiite
    Paper, or Maori Paper, but it seems either completely un-PC, or just flat-out
    culturally-ignorant to name one's company Inuit Paper. (I'm guessing the company
    isn't based in Iqaluit.)\r\n\r\nAnd it's sad to see the Inuktitut syllabics writing
    system used by the Inuit - although designed in the 1870s by a kablunak, Edmund
    Peck - repurposed as the latin alphabet. Maybe I'm a genuine party-pooping stick-in-the-mud,
    but I find this kind of appropriation of another writing system for kicks and
    kitsch to be disrespectful. Other examples are provided by FSI, who published
    <a href=\"http://www.fontfont.com/shop/view_singles_main.ep?id=127652\">FF Bagel</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.fontfont.com/shop/view_singles_main.ep?id=127654\">FF
    Falafel</a> which are meant to look, respectively, like Hebrew and Arabic scripts.
    (Nor am I crazy about mock-Gaelic, mock-Cyrillic, or mock-Greek fonts, or any
    other fonts aping the look of other fonts.)\r\n\r\nI'm sure that I'm going to
    catch a hot pile for saying this, but in my opinion Inuit Paper and its faux-Inuit
    alphabet isn't clever; it's disrespectful. I'm a fan of Jeremy's, which makes
    my disappointment doubly keen."
  created: '2006-03-08 06:30:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Actually the Arjo site struck me as totally PC and respectful when compared
    to the site where I first spotted the font - http://www.30gms.com/index.php?/permalink/freezing_my_typeface_off/
    - decided against linking to this in my earlier post.
  created: '2006-03-08 06:41:40'
- author:
    name: .
  body: You're right Si, that's just offensive. What is a "simplistic lifestyle"?
    And how can a typeface reflect a people's culture?
  created: '2006-03-08 13:29:10'
- author:
    name: peter_bain
  body: "I'm sure Ross will have his own take on this... but the typeface strikes
    me as a joyful cross-pollination of Euphemia UCAS and the whole range of private,
    personal, code-like alphabets. I was cleaning out some aging floppies the other
    day and came across FUSE which certainly helped spread this genre. \r\n\r\nAs
    far as the co-opting of Inuit identity to sell paper, well that is certainly another
    discussion. Is typography is the place to spend our moral outrage?"
  created: '2006-03-08 15:35:04'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: "<em>And how can a typeface reflect a people\u2019s culture?</em>\r\n\r\nwell,
    there's this <a href=\"http://just.letterror.com/ltrwiki/DiegoMieryTeran_2fSahinSau_2fTuhunTypeface\">example</a>
    which seems a bit more...mmmm...justified...\r\n\r\nand what do they mean by <a
    href=\"http://www.inuitpaper.com/flash_movies/inuit_no_nav.html\">ethnic shapes</a>?\r\n\r\nthis
    is starting to smell like a few other examples of <a href=\"http://www.eyemagazine.com/feature.php?id=98&fid=485\">faux
    ethnic fonts</a>...Neuland and Chop Suey come to mind..."
  created: '2006-03-08 15:56:27'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Amy, thanks for linking to the Flash animation about the develoment of the
    font. I was so appalled by the condescending tone and purple prose - almost certainly
    nothing to do with Jeremy - that I had to transcribe it:\r\n\r\n///\r\n\r\nThis
    is where it all began - the Inuktitut alphabet. These strangely alien shapes and
    squiggles provided the raw material for our new typeface.\r\n\r\nIt's a surprisingly
    modern collection of characters, as the Inuit people only developed a written
    language in 1890s, in an effort to preserve their history and identity.\r\n\r\nExamples
    of work in progress - these early sketches by typographer Jeremy Tankard drew
    heavily on the character and composition of the Inuktitut alphabet.\r\n\r\nIdeas
    and variations were explored before a set of guiding principles for the Inuit
    typeface emerged.\r\n\r\nWhile some letters took their shape directly from the
    Inuktitut alphabet, others are based on more familiar Roman letterforms.\r\n\r\nThis
    helped create an overall sense of balance, harmony and legibility.\r\n\r\nInuit
    is a highly versatile typeface. It was originally designed as a display font for
    headlines and big text.\r\n\r\nBut, because of the way the traditional and ethnic
    shapes work together, it's just as legible and engaging in smaller sizes.\r\n\r\nUltimately,
    Inuit's eye-catching appearance is redolent of its origins.\r\n\r\nJagged edges
    counterpoint sleek curves, suggesting the Arctic landscape and indigenous way
    of life.\r\n\r\nSome of the original Inuit shapes seemed a little too extreme,
    so we developed various alternative characters.\r\n\r\nThis means you can always
    add a bit of variety to your text setting, or choose the version that best suits
    a particular design.\r\n\r\nAlso included are several pairs of letters which flow
    together - technically known as 'ligatures' - to add texture and rhythm to typeset
    text.\r\n\r\nGenerally fonts only include fl and fi, but Inuit has several more,
    emphasising its fluency and organic form.\r\n\r\n///\r\n\r\nThere is plenty of
    fodder there for my upset. The text is condescending AND inaccurate, which is
    a heady mix. Any copywriter with an internet connection could have dialed up <a
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Canadian_aboriginal_syllabic_writing\">this
    WIKIpedia entry</a> to get some background on the Inutitut Syllabics writing system,
    which was developed not by Inuit \"to preserve their history and identity\", but
    by missionaries to spread the word of their god to the animist peoples of the
    arctic.\r\n\r\nIf Arjo Wiggins means to say that their new range of paper is snow-white,
    they don't need to do so in such a culturally-insensitive and imperialist way.
    The name is bad enough, and the appropriation of Inuktitut syllabary and its \"strangely
    alien shapes and squiggles\" is adding insult to injury.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 17:03:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Cultural chauvinism aside: reverse-Latinization rules.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 17:29:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Neuland???
  created: '2006-03-08 17:30:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not intended as such by Koch, Neuland is\r\nnonetheless used to convey Africa
    a lot.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 18:17:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Faux-alphabet faces are visual puns -- the worse they are, the better they
    are. Step right up Ladies and Gentleman and see the Latin typeface that looks
    like Inuit/Hebrew/Chinese! Harmless stuff, really, because never more than a novelty,
    display faces of limited application. \r\n\r\nThe problem is in providing a serious
    rationale, which is a necesssary part of the commission here; any PR rationalizing
    a groaner is inherently pretentious (a hazard for typeface rationales in any case),
    and unless handled with extreme tact will run into PC difficulty, which is what's
    happened. chester is spot on. \r\n\r\nNot the same situation as JT's Shaker, also
    inspired by cultural simplicity, because no alphabet \"mockery\" was involved
    in that."
  created: '2006-03-08 19:31:26'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I think Nick has nailed it - there''s no problem with the font, it''s the
    positioning and PR that causes the feelings of discomfort. '
  created: '2006-03-08 19:55:45'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The font is actually quite beautiful. Is it really based on another script
    from the Inuits or is that just part of the marketing mumbo-jumbo?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-08 20:06:55'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Chris, it's very much based on the Inuktitut syllabary:\r\nhttp://www.omniglot.com/writing/inuktitut.htm"
  created: '2006-03-08 20:24:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That's a lovely script! Thanks Chester!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-08 23:06:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Harmless stuff, really, because never more than\r\n> a novelty, display
    faces of limited application.\r\n\r\nWell, I agree that reverse-Latinized designs
    are harmless*, but\r\ncertainly not because they're \"display only\"**; they're
    harmless\r\nsimply because Latin is too estaliblished as the dominant script.***\r\nBut
    by the same token, <cite>Latinization</cite> can be very harmful indeed,\r\nwhen
    it's done to a struggling script.\r\n\r\n* Something I point out in my Spatium/Hyphen
    article.\r\nIn fact reverse-Latinization serves a positive purpose:\r\nit demostrates
    to Latinizers how nuts what they're\r\ndoing looks like.\r\n\r\n** In fact display
    usage, being in the deliberative realm,\r\nhas more of an effect on cultural/conscious
    conceptions.\r\n\r\n*** At least until Chinese <cite>really</cite> kicks in.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-08 23:22:56'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> In fact reverse-Latinization serves a positive \r\n> purpose: it demostrates
    to Latinizers how nuts \r\n> what they\u2019re doing looks like.\r\n\r\nI believe
    Adi Stern in his Aleph=X lecture (http://stbride.org/friends/conference/badtype/aleph-x.html
    ) showed an example of a reverse-Latinized \"faux Hebrew\" to illustrate his point.
    \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-03-09 19:33:29'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "BTW, one thing I'm sure Ross would say would be \"Rrrrr\". :)\r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-03-09 19:38:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> http://stbride.org/friends/conference/badtype/aleph-x.html\r\n\r\nHey,
    I never knew about that! Thanks for the great ref.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-09 22:32:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think he did the same/similar talk at ATypI last year.\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-03-10 00:18:17'
- author:
    name: Giordano
    picture: 111222
  body: "Trees don't grow in the arctic...\r\n\r\nWhy would anyone name their paper
    after a place with no trees? Boreal Paper Co. would have been a much better name,
    no?\r\n\r\nAnyway it would have been fine if they were stressing the type's openness
    and simplicity as reminiscent of the open empty spaces of the Arctic, covered
    in blankets of the purest, whitest snow... thus stressing their paper's whiteness...\r\n\r\nNo,
    instead it\u2019s reminiscent of the \u201Csimplistic lifestyle\u201D of the Inuit.
    Because that sells paper. Smart.\r\n\r\nBesides being insensitive and offensive
    (not only to Inuit people but to anyone who uses fonts: \"[\u2026] several pairs
    of letters which flow together - technically known as \u2018ligatures\u2019 \u2013
    to add [\u2026]\", its just a stupid marketing concept."
  created: '2006-03-10 02:34:09'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Well, I hate to say it, but I'll bet your average reader doesn't know the
    word \"ligature.\" However, I'd agree that the word \"technically\" doesn't belong
    in that sentence.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-03-10 03:32:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The PR stuff is pretty moronic and ignorantly offensive but, well, it's PR
    stuff. I expect such stuff to be crap 95% of the time.\r\n\r\nI like the actual
    typeface. There are some clever formal ideas, especially evident in the ligatures,
    of the kind I've come to expect from Jeremy.\r\n\r\nI can even imagine a use for
    such a typeface in for display typography in Nunavut, where English and Inuktitut
    are used alongside each other. The Inuktityt Syllabary is an important aspect
    of Inuit culture, despite having been invented by a non-Inuit, so a typeface that
    references that living cultural heritage even in the context of English language
    text wouldn't necessarily be unwelcome."
  created: '2006-03-10 07:37:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> I can even imagine a use for such a typeface in for display typography
    in Nunavut, where English and Inuktitut are used alongside each other. </em>\r\n\r\nCommercially
    perhaps, but surely not institutionally?\r\nI would imagine that Futura would
    be a good pairing. Has Tiro developed any matched bi-alphabet faces?"
  created: '2006-03-10 07:58:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Has Tiro developed any matched bi-alphabet faces?</em>\r\n\r\nYes. The
    Euphemia UCAS typeface which ships with OS X contains both Latin and Aboriginal
    Syllabics support."
  created: '2006-03-12 06:44:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "From my Latinization article in Spatium/Hyphen: \"There is no generic approach
    to simply designing one font per script that can ensure good performance whatever
    the situation.\" With the overwhelming \"generic approach\" here being stylistic
    \"matching\" of formalisms between scripts. If you want both scripts to be happy
    in a bi-script system, you need that system to be doubly bilateral. And -for now
    at least- there's only one such system on the planet, for any pair of scripts:
    Nour&Patria.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-12 08:47:12'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "\"And -for now at least- there\u2019s only one such system on the planet,
    for any pair of scripts: Nour&Patria.\"\r\n\r\nWow Hrant! That's a mighty big
    claim. Surely this is hyperbole..."
  created: '2006-03-12 16:34:22'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "John, \r\n\r\nyour Ethopic typeface can also be called \"matched bi-alphabet
    face\"? \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-03-12 16:50:29'
- author:
    name: .
  body: 'Adam, would that make it the second only such system on the planet? Surely
    there can''t be two only such systems. I think the only way to resolve this is
    the Man''s Way: arm-wrestling. If anyone else pops up with another only such system,
    we''ll have to have a round-robin tournament. Has Matthew Carter done anything
    that could be called a "matched bi-alphabet face"? Because I''d put money on Matthew...'
  created: '2006-03-12 17:11:02'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'As I recall the ''system'' requires two families, say you want to support
    Latin and Greek. You''d have two families in the system. Family 1 would be for
    setting mostly Latin with a few Greek words and would be a Latinized Greek and
    a second family for setting mostly Greek with a few English words - that would
    include a Greekized Latin. Even if Hrant wasn''t the first to suggest this I think
    he was the first to make a ''system'' that works this way.    '
  created: '2006-03-12 17:25:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, OK, you can tack on \"as far as I know\". But really that's about it.
    N&P is the only \"known system\" shall we say that has a double pair of masters
    and subordinates that makes it a balanced, versatile system. Without such multilateralism
    a multiscipt font system is one-dimensional, allowing for authentic, functional
    setting in all its scripts only in very narrow applications. Not that I'm not
    trying to spread the word: my article spills all and has been published in two
    journals (so far); I've given a talk about it at two conferences; and I preach
    one-to-one as well, like when Michail Semoglu showed me his beautiful reverse-Latinized
    design, and I suggested he do it both ways, not just one.\r\n\r\nAnd perhaps it's
    not even a very big claim, for the simple reason that many people think it's not
    worth the trouble, or even that it's a bad idea. Modernism is the dominant ideology
    and it tells people that a solution like mine is \"too complex\"; the most Modernism
    can apparently be happy with is the one-font-per-script concept (and really, it
    would much rather have everybody just use the Latin script). While the reason
    I think it's just complex enough is simply that multiculturalism is itself highly
    complex!\r\n\r\n> Has Matthew Carter done anything that could\r\n> be called a
    \u201Cmatched bi-alphabet face\u201D?\r\n\r\nAs far as I know the most Carter
    has done is the Cadmus/Skia\r\npair, which is however a superb example of reverse-Latinization.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/cadmuskia.gif\r\n\r\n>
    Even if Hrant wasn\u2019t the first to suggest this\r\n\r\nI would of course really
    love to hear of any conceptual\r\npredecessor, especially since I value raw ideas
    so much.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-12 17:28:11'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Hrant, fair enough. I guess I'm just not up on your Patria/Nour project,
    or the ideas behind it. I'm just such a pragmatist - and you have to be as a type
    publisher, even if being a type designer is more \"romantic\" - that I wonder
    how users work with the fonts. \r\n\r\nI gather that there are four fonts in the
    grid: Pure Latin / Pure Armenian / Latin with an Armenian accent / Armenian with
    a Latin accent. I understand the concept, and I appreciate it; I just wonder whether
    the users of the system are using it as is intended.\r\n\r\nAnd again, perhaps
    I'm a dirty modernist, but it seems to me that a type system or multiple scripts
    \u2014 or a single big-ass OT font conatining multiple scripts \u2014 should all
    be designed to hold together \xE6sthetically. Often, additional scripts are just
    that: additional. They have been designed after the Latin script, and so are beholden
    to the Latin. When a project has been conceived as an integrated, cross-referenced,
    cohesive multi-script face, that seems like the ideal approach. And I believe
    that this was the approach in developing the new typefaces for Microsoft's Longhorn/Vista
    OS.\r\n\r\nHrant, from my brief perusal of CR's type contest issue, it seems that
    the Patria/Nour system is very handsome and very cohesive, and I compliment you
    on it. I'd love to see a PDF, if you have one posted on your site somewhere.\r\n\r\nSo,
    excuse my earlier dig. I couldn't help myself...\r\n\r\nPS; what were we talking
    about? Oh yeah: Inuktitut syllabics..."
  created: '2006-03-12 17:47:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> there\u2019s only one such system on the planet, for any pair of scripts:
    Nour&Patria.</em>\r\n\r\nIt is a unique approach, but it's kind of \"cutting off
    one's nose to spite one's face\".\r\nWith the premise that a single Latin style
    and a matched single Armenian style is not possible (a political statement, if
    not a defeatist design philosophy), what this typeface system does is offer stylistic
    alternates of the \"other\" script. \r\n\r\nSo, in OpenType terms, Nour = A (Armenian)
    + L.salt (Latin stylistic alternate)\r\nPatria = L + A.salt (Armenian stylisitic
    alternate).\r\n\r\nIt may be politically sensitive, but the result is a complex
    system, a variation of the \"Roman + Italic + Caption\" style categories in Fairmont,
    that doesn't offer Armenian typographers as much to work with as their Latin counterparts,
    by not having enough \"design-space\" to provide a clearly-contrasted Roman +
    Italic. Armenian is conceived of as the \"Caption\" element in the triumvirate.
    The type designer's message seems to be that the notion of Roman/Italic contrast
    is un-Armenian, unacceptable Latinization.\r\n\r\nDo Armenian typographers not
    use the layout convention of contrasting \"Roman\" against \"Italic\"? A face
    like Asmik would suggest otherwise.\r\n\r\nI would imagine that typographers setting
    Armenian would be inclined to use the B weight of Patria as \"Roman\", and the
    A weight of Nour as \"Italic\".\r\n\r\nFor a text face, the serifed Cleartype
    font Constantia (John Hudson) does a good job of being \"doubly bi-lateral\" in
    the relationship between Latin and Cyrillic. What makes the difference is, surely,
    starting both scripts at the same time, with a single, comprehensive design space.
    Not fragmentation.\r\n\r\nAs a bilingual system, Nour or Patria has a puzzling
    inconsistency between scripts: different x-heights. What happens when a word or
    phrase of one script is inserted into a paragraph of the other? Surely the abrupt
    change of x-height will disrupt immersive reading?"
  created: '2006-03-12 18:12:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chester, it is precisely what I think users need that motivated me to create
    N&P. Not all users certainly, but actually users that are often ignored. Furthermore,
    it's important to realize that the sociocultural reality and needs of users for
    whose script you're making a font for can be -and usually are- different depending
    on the script. An Armenian person who might be interested in N&P is quite likely
    to have different priorities than let's say a Brit who's interested. Different
    cultures need their fonts to do different things for them. And taking this sort
    of thing into account is Good Design.\r\n\r\nHere's a good overview of the system:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/nour&patria/N&Psys.gif\r\n\r\n>
    I just wonder whether the users of the system are using it as is intended.\r\n\r\nAh,
    the ever-elusive Intent. :-)  You probably know even better than me that the original
    intent of a type designer is the first thing to go when the font hits the road.
    Which is OK, really - I'm a pragmatist too, and I simply can't angry over things
    I can't affect.\r\n\r\nThat said, I certainly do have an intent for the thing.
    But it's also way too early to know if most users will \"get it\", since Nour
    has only really been used once so far (in Emily Artinian's book that I mentioned
    in the CR awards thread). One thing that helps though is that for somebody (especially
    an Armenian person) to go looking for something like this, to find it, and pay
    good money for it, it's quite likely that the intent will not only get through,
    but resonate strongly with the customer. N&P isn't something most people would
    buy just for its looks (it doesn't even look that impressive formally I don't
    think - although Patria customers have in fact told me that they like its somewhat
    rigid but sensitive forms - which is actually the intent). This is fortunately
    exactly what happened with Emily: she looked for 2-3 months, paid the relatively
    high price pronto, and her tesimonials are the juiciest things a type designer
    could ever want!  :-)\r\n\r\n> should all be designed to hold together \xE6sthetically.\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    But of course, and as you probably agree, there are other\r\nfactors besides aethetics
    that needs to be balanced in as well.\r\n\r\nWhat's encouraging to me is that
    you seem to think that N&P does\r\nin fact enjoy this stylistic cohesiveness.
    I'm very grateful for\r\nthat because that half of the coin is difficult for me
    to gauge,\r\nand the other half (functional authenticity) I already think is\r\nworking
    to satisfaction. So thanks!\r\n\r\n> I believe that this was the approach in developing
    the\r\n> new typefaces for Microsoft\u2019s Longhorn/Vista OS.\r\n\r\nAnd this
    sort of sensitivity is indeed highly welcome, and a recent phenomenon (thankfully
    gradually overpowering the heady cultural chauvinism of \"70s-style\" non-Latin
    design). Nonetheless, the one-font-per-script approach is a damaging over-simplification.\r\n\r\nNick,
    the bulk of your questions are in fact addressed fully in my article. Which is
    not to say you're likely to appreciate the answers! :-)  Just FYI though: Spatium
    #4 is sold out; but Hyphen there's plenty of, and your interest in Greek type
    might provide extra motivation. Basically, if you're asking these questions because
    you're interested in the answers (or at least some answers) then my article should
    help.\r\n\r\nBut since the article is not (yet) available publicly,\r\nI will
    try to briefly address some of your points here.\r\n\r\n> what this typeface system
    does is offer stylistic alternates of the \u201Cother\u201D script.\r\n\r\nStyle
    is exacly what I've tried too look beyond,\r\nnot to ignore it certainly, but
    to balance it in\r\na way that users need.\r\n\r\n> doesn\u2019t offer Armenian
    typographers as much\r\n> to work with as their Latin counterparts\r\n\r\nCertainly
    there's room for expansion (there always is). But pointing to the lack of an italic
    for Nour ignores a basic fact of Armenian typesetting: thanks to our floating
    emphasis mark, we don't need italics at all the same way that Latin users do.
    So sure, it would be nice to have (and I don't think it's Latinization) but sort
    of like smallcaps is to Latin. Before I make italics for Nour, I would make different
    optical sizes.\r\n\r\nAsmik? The inclusion of an italic doesn't make up for its
    hopelessly Latinized vertical proportions. I know, because that's exactly the
    type of Armenian fonts I used to make.  :-/\r\n\r\n> Constantia (John Hudson)
    does a good job of being \u201Cdoubly bi-lateral\u201D\r\n\r\nNo, that's not what
    it means.\r\n\r\n> a puzzling inconsistency between scripts: different x-heights.
    \r\n\r\nThat is, of course, exactly a feature, not a bug. Imposing strictly uniform
    vertical proportions across scripts is nothing short of cultural and functional
    suicide. The variation of vertical proportions certainly can't go unchecked; but
    neither should it be shunned. And it is in fact partly for reasons of immersive
    readability than vertical proportions usually cannot be imposed across scripts.\r\n\r\nTake
    for example Georgian. Would you make its vertical proportions match Latin, even
    though only 4 out of its 33 letters are confined to the x-height? And if you don't
    impose vertical proportions in a Georgian/Latin system, where's the threshold?
    Do you impose it for Armenian/Latin or not? Or what about the big two: Cyrillic
    (with is extender-starved lc) and Greek? Actually, the determintion of a threshold
    is moot; the important thing is that a threshold does exist.\r\n\r\nIn fact I
    would suggest (and actually already have) that even within the Latin script different
    languages ideally need different proportions - at least in terms of the Em space:
    Polish for example, with its heavy dose of diacritics, is probably better served
    set at a slightly smaller point size (but with the same line-to-line leading)
    when set parallel to English text.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-12 22:33:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Re the x-height problem: there are two kinds of bilingual document.\r\nOne
    is where the same content is repeated in side by side columns, translated.\r\nThe
    other is where a word or two of a foreign script is inserted into the text.\r\n\r\nA
    common x-height is not required for the first, and as Hrant argues, may give undue
    weight to one language over the other.\r\n\r\nThe requirement for the latter is
    most definitely to have a common x-height across scripts, if the typographer is
    going to the trouble of using one typeface.\r\n\r\nHow can this situation be resolved?\r\n\r\nThere
    is sufficient variety of x-height types in Latin script that the Latin glyphs
    can be tailored to the requirements of the other script.\r\n\r\nSo a multi-script
    typeface should probably have x-height options for Latin script. Big x-height
    for use with Cyrillic, small for use with Armenian.\r\n\r\nHowever, in general
    perhaps bilingual typography is not an important reason for multi-script typefaces,
    which exist to make a typeface available to different alphabet users, and will
    rarely be used in bilingual documents where different scripts will be thrust up
    against one another?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-12 23:57:32'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">However, in general perhaps bilingual typography is not an important reason
    for multi-script typefaces, \r\n\r\nThis is likely true, but these days its rare
    for a non-Latin font to be produced which doesn't include a matched or custom
    Latin. Users have come to expect at least Code Page 1252 coverage. There can be
    technical and performance issues in fonts with no Latin set. "
  created: '2006-03-13 01:29:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually, there are many more than two, but I agree that those\r\ntwo cases
    (which I call \"parallel\" and \"hierarchic\" in my article)\r\nare the main ones.\r\n\r\nJust
    FYI though, a third type of bilingual document, which is\r\nactually quite prevalent,
    is the dictionary, and that tends to be\r\nmuch more complex than the \"main\"
    two. Even a system like\r\nN&P's might have trouble keeping up, but of course
    it will\r\nmanage much better than the one-dimensional stuff.\r\n\r\n> The requirement
    for the latter is most definitely\r\n> to have a common x-height across scripts\r\n\r\nAbsolutely
    not. Why not? Because if you do that the\r\nother-script snippet can look unusually
    small or large.\r\n\r\nThe fact that guidelines like the x-height are not in fact\r\npopulated
    by straight horizontal lines means that there's\r\nactually a lot less strict
    alignment necessary, and instead\r\nthings like apparent size need to be weighted
    heavily.\r\n\r\nThe five main factors that need to be balanced against\r\neach
    other very carefully in a multi-script typeface are:\r\nauthenticity, readability,
    even color, apparent size, and\r\nregularity (like alignment, but also stylistic
    consistency).\r\n\r\n> the Latin glyphs can be tailored to the requirements of
    the other script.\r\n\r\nIf you ignore that a font's vertical proportions affect
    its\r\nreadability (at a given point size), sure, use Quadraat\r\nHeadliner for
    a book...  :-/\r\n\r\nPrecedent of expectation is only a small factor in actual
    functionality.\r\n\r\n> Big x-height for use with Cyrillic, small for use with
    Armenian.\r\n\r\nWhich however totally doesn't work, because the particular\r\nusage
    of the non-x-height space varies greatly, affecting\r\napparent size. So for example
    for the former the Latin will\r\nlook unusually large (which it does) while in
    the latter it\r\nwill look too small (since the Armenia extenders are much\r\nstronger).
    Talk about disrupting immersive reading (not to\r\nmention unwittingly conveying
    to the reader that one script\r\nis more \"important\" than the other).\r\n\r\n>
    perhaps bilingual typography is not an important reason for multi-script typefaces\r\n\r\n1)
    Of course it is. Everywhere from the -expanding- European\r\nUnion to cultures
    with \"secondary\" scripts trying to keep up.\r\n2) Even when a multi-script font
    is used to set single scripts at a time,\r\nwhat's the loss if it happens to also
    be suitable for proper multi-script\r\nsetting? The answer I guess is the Modernist-coziness
    of the designer.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nWhat's the solution?\r\nFormal Regularity needs
    to be brought down from its position on the throne.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-13 01:53:48'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "hpp: \"...the particular usage of the non-x-height space varies greatly,
    affecting apparent size. So for example for the former the Latin will look unusually
    large (which it does) while in the latter it will look too small (since the Armenia
    extenders are much stronger). Talk about disrupting immersive reading (not to
    mention unwittingly conveying to the reader that one script is more \u201Cimportant\u201D
    than the other)\"\r\n\r\nThis sounds very, very right to me from a perceptual
    processing point of view.  But the argument about bringing down formal regularity
    is a non-starter because compatability of apparent size across different structural-mode
    deployments of cartesian space is simply a formal-functional or optical-grammatical
    criterion of a higher, more inclusive and demanding order."
  created: '2006-03-13 03:02:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Or you could say a deeper order. Anyway, I agree.\r\nMy contention is that
    as a rule \"formal regularity\"\r\nhas been limited entirely to things like lining
    up\r\nx-heights and copy-pasting serifs.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-13 03:17:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Hrant, you're on to something with your \"doubly bi-lateral\" approach, and
    the component parts are fine (the lightest weight of Patria Armenian is very classic),
    but you haven't delivered everything you claim and there are still some family
    design issues to resolve.\r\n\r\nThe Armenian \"x\"-height of Nour/Patria is clearly
    indicated by serifs (more so than its baseline), and it's noticeably lower than
    the Latin x-height. The Armenian looks smaller and more condensed (compare the
    rhythm of vertical strokes), while the Latin is larger and rounder. You've not
    met your \"apparent size\" requirement. Rather than dethroning Formal Regularity,
    what you have is two out-of-sync regularities.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/NourNS.png]\r\n\r\n<em>
    the particular usage of the non-x-height space varies greatly </em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    not about the non-x-height. It's an axiom of typography that a type's apparent
    size is determined almost completely by it's x-height! In Latin, Greek, Cyrillic,
    Armenian, etc., (although perhaps not in Georgian -- but that's the exception).\r\n\r\n<em>
    sure, use Quadraat Headliner for a book </em>\r\n\r\nIt's a misconception that
    book faces require small x-height. Dante, for instance, or Cartier Book, have
    ample x-height, while Bernhard Modern, with a tiny x-height, is more of a display
    face. Small text fonts (eg ITC Bodoni Six) have exaggerated x-heights.\r\n\r\n<em>
    Even when a multi-script font is used to set single scripts at a time, what\u2019s
    the loss if it happens to also be suitable for proper multi-script setting? </em>\r\n\r\nNo
    loss. When Western foundries publish a typeface with Latin and Cyrillic scripts,
    they're making the design available for use in Russia, Ukraine, etc., in situations
    which will usually not involve bilingualism with Latin script."
  created: '2006-03-13 04:15:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you\u2019re on to something\r\n\r\nThank you.\r\nBut yes, there's a lot
    more to do/add/fix.\r\nNot least the serifs on the Latin caps.\r\n\r\n> the lightest
    weight of Patria Armenian is very classic\r\n\r\nActually, it's classic Latinization.
    \ :-/\r\nBut that's OK here because it's a subordinate.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s noticeably
    lower than the Latin x-height.\r\n\r\n1) Even though the Latin has no strong x-line
    horizonals?...\r\n2) It's noticeable when you zoom in (and you're a type designer),
    but not when you're immersed (and you're a layman).\r\n\r\n> The Armenian looks
    smaller\r\n\r\n1) Don't base it all on a couple of samples - that's too deterministic;
    for one thing \"dearest\" contains fully 5 (out of 7) instances of glyphs that
    are unusually wide in Patria. But even in that case you might find that if you
    focus beyond the plane of the text, the apparent sizes come sufficiently* close
    (not least because Latin's paucity of extenders*). I couldn't say how many man-months
    of squinting and de-focusing I did before arriving at these relative proportions.
    \ :-)\r\n2) Again, there's a perceptual and cognitive difference between deliberation
    and immersion.\r\n\r\n* See below.\r\n\r\n> You\u2019ve not met your \u201Capparent
    size\u201D requirement.\r\n\r\nOf course not absolutely.\r\nIt's a balance, a
    dance of gentle gives and takes.\r\nAnd the same with the other factors I mentioned.\r\n\r\n>
    It\u2019s a misconception that book faces require small x-height.\r\n\r\nI don't
    know what you mean by \"small\", but it's\r\ncertainly no misconception that the
    extenders\r\nare more than just pretty appendages.\r\n\r\nThe more you're shooting
    for immersive reading, and the larger\r\nthe point size, the smaller the x-height
    should be (up to a point).\r\n\r\n> a type\u2019s apparent size is determined
    almost completely by it\u2019s x-height!\r\n\r\nNope. Especially in something
    like Armenian, with its rich extender space (or even Polish, with its rich diacritics)
    the x-height is certainly the most important, but you can't simply ignore the
    rest. Even in English the ascenders with their frequency and the descenders with
    their heft do make a difference. And this is where the notably subtle x-height
    changes in N&P come from.\r\n\r\n> although perhaps not in Georgian \u2014 but
    that\u2019s the exception\r\n\r\nException? No such thing. It's just a pushier
    case. Armenian is just like Georgian in that way, simply less extreme. So any
    anti-Regularity decisions that apply to Georgian also apply -to a lesser extent-
    to Armenian (and everything else). Like I said, more important than where the
    threshold might be is that there is a threshold at all.\r\n\r\n> No loss.\r\n\r\n(I
    think you missed my point.)\r\nIf there's no loss, then there's no reason to blindly
    align things.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-13 04:43:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Adam: <em>your Ethopic typeface can also be called \u201Cmatched bi-alphabet
    face\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, but I thought Nick was asking specifically about
    matching with Canadian aboriginal syllabics.\r\n\r\nIn Nyala, the Ethiopic typeface,
    the Latin exists in a supporting role to the Ethiopic. So it might be seen as
    one half of what Hrant advocates: a typeface in which one script is clearly dominant
    in determining the style and the other subservient to it. The Nyala Latin was
    designed for the specific purpose of setting some Latin words within Ethiopic
    text, based on examples of such documents I had examined which typically used
    e.g. Times or similarly ill-matched design for the Latin. If I were intending
    to set just a few words of an Ethiopic language in the midst of Latin text, I
    would not use Nyala for the Latin because I don't think it is an appropriate Latin
    text face (Gary Munch remarks that it has some merit as a Latin display face independent
    of the Ethiopic). So it isn't really a bi-matched system in the same way that
    Ross' Euphemia is, but the Canadian syllabics lend themselves very easily to matching
    a Latin sans serif.\r\n\r\nNyala is something of an unusual approach for me, because
    the Ethiopic script so obviously has dominance over the Latin. More often, I try
    to maintain stylistic independence between the two scripts, and address harmony
    in terms of weight and proportion, aiming for matching typographic colour as far
    as possible without compromising either script. The reason for this is pragmatic:
    clients who want to pay for a multiscript typeface don't want to pay for a separate
    multiscript typeface for each script, as required by Hrant's Nour/Patria system.
    So I try to treat neither script as stylistically dominant (except, sometimes,
    where this decision has been taken independently of my design, e.g. 300 years
    ago by Peter the Great)."
  created: '2006-03-13 04:43:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I try to maintain stylistic independence between the two scripts\r\n\r\nWhich
    is what I've tried to do with the pair of masters; although only as much as is
    needed within the confines of authenticity for each script - which really isn't
    huge in the case of Armenian & Latin: mostly slant and serifness (especially the
    latter) need to be different.\r\n\r\n> clients who want to pay for a multiscript
    typeface don\u2019t want\r\n> to pay for a separate multiscript typeface for each
    script\r\n\r\nWhile some clients don't want to pay for typefaces, period.  :-/\r\nThis
    is really just another case of education, and you win\r\nsome you lose some. But
    anyway I sell the various components\r\nof N&P individually: one client might
    want just the two masters,\r\nanother might want the Latinocentric half (for some
    good ol'\r\nchauvinistic setting :-) and I can even envision somebody only\r\nbuying
    the Latin subordinate part of the Armenocentric set!\r\nIt's my personal favorite
    actually, and I wouldn't mind seeing\r\nan entire book set in it. It would be
    unique in style and highly\r\nreadable. I promise.\r\n\r\n> I try to treat neither
    script as stylistically dominant\r\n\r\nAgain that's something I've tried to do
    (or actually, incorporate into the system) with N&P, although some people (including
    the CR jury) might see a strong Armenian flavor throughout. I'm not sure that
    isn't more hindsight than insight though. If you show Patria to somebody, will
    he say \"oh, it looks Armenian\"? No way. But maybe he'll say \"it looks foreign\"?
    That's not impossible, but I think it's unlikely, mostly because people are now
    used to seeing all kinds of strange fonts; Patria is pretty mainstream in comparison.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-13 09:29:41'
date: '2006-03-08 05:56:59'
node_type: forum
title: What would Ross Mills say?

---
