---
author:
  name: Chris Rugen
  picture: 110153
body: "On a design blog called Be A Design Group, which I read regularly, an article
  was posted yesterday titled '<a href=\"http://www.beadesigngroup.com/blog/archives/2006/03/five_steps_to_font_freedom.html\">Five
  Steps to Font Freedom</a>. The article is addressing the severe lack of fonts for
  web design and proposes some ideas on propagating them such that web type would
  be 'liberated'.\r\n\r\nThe bullet points are:\r\n\r\n1. Convince the Font Companies
  to Surrender Their Monopoly\r\n2. Create Read-Only Versions of Fonts\r\n3. Adopt
  the Free Versions of Fonts\r\n4. Share Your Fonts\r\n5. Build Free Versions of the
  Classic Fonts\r\n\r\nIt's written by a designer, not a type-centric person, and
  as such it explores ideas that will probably make a large number of you freak out.
  The thesis seems to be: I don't have to have a font to read a book, so why do I
  have to have it to read a website? It then examines a handful of conceptual, rather
  than practical, ways that this could be overcome. While I think the article is reflective
  of a certain degree of naivet\xE9, it also reflects a very real and very legitimate
  frustration. If some of the generous and knowledgeable Typophiles from these forums
  drifted over there and contributed thoughtful and informed thoughts on what could/would/does/doesn't
  work, the discussion could break out of the insulated walls of our own little realm
  and perhaps inform a broader graphic design audience about type. The site is run
  by designers who are also teachers, so I presume many of their students regularly
  read their site as well.\r\n\r\nAgain, some of what they suggest will probably be
  offensive to those who make type for a living, but they're a good group of guys
  \ asking honest questions about real concerns, not a bunch of jerks who just want
  to pirate fonts or something. So I encourage you to wander over and help enlighten
  people about type."
comments:
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "Hi Chris,\r\n\r\nthe last time I went head-to-head with a designer preaching
    \"free fonts for the masses\" on a predominantly UK graphic designers forum he
    resorted to \"name-calling\" on his last comment. The other posters found my remarks
    favorable to both designers and type invested companies alike. Once you begin
    <em>chipping away</em> at the fabric of another's argument they often have no
    ground to retreat on.\r\n\r\nI jumped on via your link and sometime later today
    I will post in a kind and gentle manner until it gets ugly. \r\n\r\nGee... what
    should my pseudonym be this time? \r\n -- \"<a href=\"http://vforvendetta.warnerbros.com/trailer.html\"
    target=\"new\">V for Vendetta</a>\"?"
  created: '2006-03-09 19:01:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Norbert,\r\nas long it is not P for pirate :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-09 19:11:31'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "No...\r\n\r\nP is for <a href=\"http://www.enablex.com\" target=\"new\"><em>Enablex</em></a>!
    ;-)"
  created: '2006-03-09 19:19:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Whooops, gotta run! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-09 19:57:02'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Yeah, the usual bullshit arguements. I think the main thing here is that
    the screen environment is totally different to the printed one, so adapting Caslon
    for the web is a tad silly. There are only so many iterations of pixels that can
    be developed for decent, readable body copy fonts and the microsoft cleartype
    stuff will fill quite a few holes methinks. As for display fonts, there are plenty
    of 'fun' ones to play with. \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-03-09 20:15:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I don\u2019t have to have a font to read a book, so why do I have to
    have it to read a website? </em>\r\n\r\nI don't need gas (petrol) to ride a bike.
    Free gas for everyone!"
  created: '2006-03-09 20:24:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Was the book free?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-09 20:31:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Perhaps type designers should publish their \"five steps to graphic design
    freedom\" Why should the 'creatives' keep their templates and tricks to themselves?
    All photosphop filters and 'best of' design annuals must be in the public domain!
    ;-)\r\n\r\nBut then the illustrators will publish their manifesto for free rights
    to all photographs, and the photographers will hang a banner listing their demands
    for whatever they think should be free and the whole thing will escalate into
    a creative civil war. "
  created: '2006-03-09 21:11:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I will go for it if everything is free including, rent, food, travel, clothes,
    etc.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-09 22:06:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Sounds like your army days, Chris :-)
  created: '2006-03-09 22:30:10'
- author:
    name: ahanft3
  body: "Hi, I wrote the article on Be A Design Group, and I am really dissappointed
    by the comments I see here. Why would typophiles object to rich typography for
    the masses? I can understand concern over piracy issues, etc, but surely there
    is a part of you that want to see a way for your fonts to be seen by everyone
    online. That is what I would like to see, and I think there are ways of making
    it happen without putting type designers out of business. \r\n\r\nI am also offended
    by the snobbery I perceive in comments like \"It\u2019s written by a designer,
    not a type-centric person.\" Well, no I don't design fonts, but you aren't going
    to find a person more typography sympathetic than me or the majority of designers
    out there. We are on your side! Rather than visiting our site looking for a battle,
    try reading it as the designer's friends and partners. That is what you are, right?"
  created: '2006-03-10 00:26:58'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: 'I read the article last night. The concern for better typography on the internet
    is definitely valid, the five solutions, however, are poorly constructed and seem
    to come from an underlying contempt for the people who make and distribute typefaces.
    I better argument might have involved a little more research into internet and
    font technologies rather than a bunch of emotional crap about the greed, selfishness,
    and pride of type designers. '
  created: '2006-03-10 01:17:09'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>We are on your side!</em>\r\n\r\nI truly agree, Adrian, that essentially
    graphic designers and type designers are on the same side. Both parties are devoted
    to the viewer's experience.\r\n\r\nThe initial posting suggests --\r\n<em>The
    font companies own the fonts, and any attempt to set them free is going to meet
    strong resistance. But what if there were legal ways to give fonts to the masses?
    Wouldn\u2019t you support any effort to increase the options for web fonts?</em>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.beadesigngroup.com/blog/archives/2006/03/five_steps_to_font_freedom.html\"
    target=\"new\">My own comment</a> is a response to flawed thinking, not on the
    wish to create better viewing experiences for internet visitors.\r\n\r\nBuckminster
    Fuller's parable about the businessman and the grand piano is all about thinking
    a solution that worked for a given situation is the best or only approach to solving
    the core problem.\r\n\r\nJust because someone did a great job with font selection
    on a web site does not mean that public availability to the BEST or most popular
    fonts is a solution to better web communications. That simply is not a wise or
    forward thinking approach.\r\n\r\nFont formats and technology can be and most
    likely will be re-invented by the large corporate manufacturers of hardware and
    systems software who have billions of dollars at stake. \r\n\r\nIf you bought
    a cassette recording of your favorite album years ago, did you rebuy it once the
    CD became available? Same thing with video tapes being replaced by DVDs.\r\n\r\nNow
    remember, if a typeface designer/font manufacturer originally designed a face
    for phototypesetters, it had to be completely revisited and re-manufactured for
    PostScript, TrueType, OpenType, et al. Each time a font format changes, the designer
    or font manufacturer needs to revisit the entire design, many times adding scores
    of new characters to fill out the new font requirements.\r\n\r\nGraphic designers
    are usually hired to produce a project and few would ever do a job that the client
    hadn't decided whether to pay for or not. Type designs are worked on, created
    and produced into fonts whether anyone is going to buy them or not. Creating three
    type families of four style weights each (regular, italic, bold, bold italic)
    adds up to twelve products that may never be purchased. Hardly a way to make a
    gainful living. The phrase \"free fonts\" is an invitation to fight."
  created: '2006-03-10 01:23:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I tend to agree with Jackson. In hindsight it might have been better to do
    some basic research around fonts and the Web. I think if you''d asked some basic
    questions here (or another font forum) before posting the manifesto you might
    have come up with some other findings.  '
  created: '2006-03-10 01:27:08'
- author:
    name: Chris Rugen
    picture: 110153
  body: "I think there's a bit of missing the forest for the trees here, because many
    people here are putting so much time into the trees, which is perfectly understandable.
    There are two groups here that should be applauding each other and cheering at
    collective successes, but somehow we always seem to end up fighting over who has
    to pay for dinner...\r\n\r\nPerhaps a recognition of the gap as an opportunity
    is the key. We know what ticks us off, how can we band together and fix it?"
  created: '2006-03-10 01:35:18'
- author:
    name: ahanft3
  body: My faith is semi-restored after the last several comments. I can't deny the
    "anarchy" flavor that my essay contained, but I hope you agree that my intentions
    are good. I would be curious to hear what you guys think about an open source
    model for fonts. Do you think it is possible? Would you support such a movement?
  created: '2006-03-10 03:37:35'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "I posted this response on Adrian's site:\r\n\r\nNorbert has it exactly right.
    The problem is nothing to do with the font companies or font designers. And they
    certainly aren\u2019t greedy - if they were, they\u2019d be in another line of
    business.\r\n\r\nThe overwhelming majority of type vendors and designers already
    set their fonts for \u201Cpreview and print\u201D embedding, or some more liberal
    setting. They\u2019ve already done their part.\r\n\r\nThe problem is that there
    is no universally accepted solution for font embedding on the web. I think Adrian
    sort of gets that, but he seems to think that it\u2019s up to the font folks to
    solve. But really this is a problem for the web folks to solve - perhaps with
    input from the font people.\r\n\r\nAny of the previous solutions that relied on
    distributing fonts for end users to install up front has been fundamentally flawed.
    insofar as it keeps designers using a handful of fonts that are universal, and
    relies on something largely outside of their control - that the user already has
    the font installed. Even if the fonts are freely available, the web is too much
    of an instant-gratification medium for web designers to be able to rely on people
    installing specific fonts just to view a site.\r\n\r\nThe W3C is considering a
    new mechanism that would allow a reference to a font in a specified format on
    the web site, perhaps in a Zip file. That\u2019s an improvement, because it gets
    the font automatically loaded - but you\u2019d still be limited to free fonts,
    which isn\u2019t very exciting. And convincing the rights-holders that they should
    give their work away isn\u2019t going to work here any more than it did in the
    music industry.\r\n\r\nStill, it\u2019s a big problem. You need to convince the
    folks who own the web browsers and the web authoring applications that there\u2019s
    a big market for a solution. The font foundries already know this and most of
    them are as eager for a good solution as you are.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-10 04:13:13'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I would be curious to hear what you guys think about an open source model
    for fonts. Do you think it is possible? Would you support such a movement?</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/16620"
  created: '2006-03-10 05:01:08'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "And another couple... \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/13565 \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/14560\r\n\r\nSo
    far these seem to have gathered little traction.  "
  created: '2006-03-10 05:23:21'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Norbert has it exactly right.</em>\r\n\r\nThanks, Thomas, for the acknowledgement.\r\nWow...
    this is something I need to show my wife right away!\r\n\r\n---------------------------------\r\n\r\nFYI
    -- My encounter with <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Buckminster_Fuller\"
    target=\"new\">Buckminster Fuller</a>\r\nWhile attending Cooper Union in the late
    sixties, I volunteered with other \"artists\" to stage a \"Happening\" at a major
    conference at NYU on the future of media. Among the keynote speakers were Bucky
    Fuller and <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marshall_McLuhan\" target=\"new\">Marshall
    McLuhan</a>, and the attending audience was filled with luminaries such as <a
    href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Andy_warhol\" target=\"new\">Andy Warhol</a>,
    who made a personal statement by sitting in the lounge during the entire conference
    reading the New York Times.\r\n\r\nFuller used a variant of the \"Businessman
    and Piano\" parable in his speech, the original version I found later in one of
    his essays on problem solving. I've rarely made a reference to this, since on
    one occasion I got blank stares and questioned, \"What does THAT have to do with
    the problem at hand?\".\r\n\r\nFuller was one of a handful of individuals who
    broke down and reshaped how I approach problem solving. As a result, I would rather
    teach how <em>not</em> to design thus opening the door to creative processing.
    \r\nMost people want \"IT\" now with little regard to whether it truly makes sense."
  created: '2006-03-10 15:28:08'
- author:
    name: TBiddy
    picture: 110666
  body: Buckminster Fuller was a genius. His approach to design and problem solving
    is truly something to be admired. I wish more people were willing to take his
    approach to problem solving.
  created: '2006-03-11 06:04:27'
- author:
    name: Noah Miller
    picture: 111432
  body: "It seems to me that some of these issues are getting a little mixed up. Even
    if you <i>were</i> giving Helvetica away, web designers would still be forced
    to specify Arial for the depressing reason that its guaranteed to be installed
    on 99% of computers already. Its the same reason people cater to other arguably
    inferior products (IE 6, Windows Media, etc) when their own preferred technologies
    are being given away.\r\n\r\nThe only way we can even dream of having, well, if
    not good then at least diverse typography on the internet is by developing a system
    that enables designers to embed typefaces into a document (not a browser) <il>while
    still observing copyright law</i>. sIFR is a good example of this (or the use
    of embedded fonts in any flash for that matter). Or maybe it isn't. Though its
    technically flawed, its an attempt at something that seems worthwhile. It utilizes
    fairly ubiquitous technology, and works independent of browsers (an important
    factor if we want to have any reasonable hope of consistent rendering.) Any thoughts
    on this?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-11 06:54:01'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"We know what ticks us off, how can we band together and fix it?\"\r\nCrazy
    glue Jobs, Gates, Chizem(?) and the W3C to each other and tickle them with low
    resolution fraction bars until they agree on true peace for users?\r\n\r\n\" In
    hindsight it might have been better to do some basic research around fonts and
    the Web.\"  :-oh I thought you did, and found: Everybody wants anti-aliased Italic,
    preferably copies of popular fonts you don't want to license for real, and they
    want them hinted and rasterized in an environment that no one has...oh, and funnel
    them into a format that excites practically no one but makes sure no viral fonts
    are distributed through use, which they can't be anyway, 'cause the popes can't
    get together on a std. web format WITH hints...I guess the font industry should
    be thoroughly whipped for all this.\r\n\r\nThese points were made long ago on
    this forum, that Adobe and Apple started the font wars and never made the peace
    required by users and developers to go on (until recently, but alas). This then
    caused the web to be typographically illiterate, where it remains, and subsequently
    has forced users to choose only from fonts that have been prepaid for them by
    the Adobe, MS and Apple and so are freely available to all. I made all this known
    in the mid-90's after a third design conference where the finger was pointed at
    ME as a representative of the source of the problem with fonts on the web. I laughed
    then, but after a decade of no progress in this area, it's not so funny, I guess
    (I don't go to design conferences much any more ;)). The best retort to this after
    all these years, is that there is no need for good type on the web, 'cause there
    is no possibility for good typography. \r\n\r\nMaybe when \"they\" make it possible
    to choose \"any point size\". Maybe when \"they\" make it possible to tune the
    color of type. Maybe when \"they\" enable H&J. Leading anyone? Portability, fidelity,
    and basic typographic functionality are sorely lacking on the web as a result
    of the poor leadership and inadequate evangelization from positions of supposed
    responsibility (and supposed typographic fraternity) in these companies. Until
    that is solved, we are the whipping boys and girls, boys and girls. My conscience
    is clear on this, and I would put 100 web fonts on the market in 12 months if
    there was a market that could employ our quality, and pay for it. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-11 13:13:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "David,\r\n\r\nI find it a bit difficult to follow all of your arguments here.
    There have been proprietary attempts to solve this problem. Some have been failures,
    Embedded OpenType (.EOT) and Bitstream\u2019s TrueDoc (.PFR), and some have been
    more successful like Flash and PDF. \r\n\r\nHowever what a large section of the
    web design community, all the browser makers (especially those based on open source
    code) and the W3C wants is an open published standard, which means that the blueprints
    for any format be in the public domain, allowing for the conversion of retail
    fonts to the embedded font format (and of course the conversion of embedded fonts
    back into usable regular fonts). This is a plan I don\u2019t think type designers
    will buy into, and I don't blame them.\r\n\r\nAs Tom mentioned the W3C\u2019s
    fallback plan seems to be support for public domain and freeware fonts .zipped
    up and attached to pages with a documented mechanism on how browsers should temporarily
    install the fonts. If this plan makes it into the CSS standard you can expect
    this to be supported in standards-compliant browsers quite quickly. \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-11 16:03:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"I find it a bit difficult to follow all of your arguments here.\"\r\nI'm
    not surprised, I'm not arguing. I'm telling. Telling that even with the best fonts
    in the world online, the typography still looks like something that stuck to the
    bottom of your shoe, no? Telling you that users want more choices in points, more
    options for composition and better results through science, not hokum, no?\r\n\r\n\"However
    what a large section of the web design community, all the browser makers (especially
    those based on open source code) and the W3C wants is an open published standard,
    which means that the blueprints for any format be in the public domain, allowing
    for the conversion of retail fonts to the embedded font format (and of course
    the conversion of embedded fonts back into usable regular fonts)\"\r\n\r\nMaking
    assumptions about what \"type designers\" do and don't want? e.g. The Blueprints
    of the current formats ought to be in the Public Domain, the conversion of any
    font into an embedded font should be on every PC in the known universe. Do you
    actually expect us to believe that the reason we don't have portable, hi-fi web
    type is because of developer sensitivity to our industry!? \r\n\r\nBased on 20
    years of evidence, beginning with Adobe's \"100 fonts should be enough\", through
    PDF and knock-off licensing at the highest levels, to today's shrill cry of \"hey
    look! YET ANOTHER RASTERIZER\",,, I find it very hard to believe that the font
    industry's concerns come anywhere near being as damaging to our industry as the
    perception in the general designing public that it is the type design industry,
    and its \"monopoly\" that has squelched web design..."
  created: '2006-03-11 17:14:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Do you actually expect us to believe that the reason we don\u2019t have
    portable, hi-fi web type is because of developer sensitivity to our industry!?
    \r\n\r\nYou don\u2019t need to believe me but it\u2019s true. Of course its not
    the only reason - browser makers and the W3C not really caring about typography
    is a bigger factor, but every time the open standards issue comes up there are
    a handful of voices here that make the valid argument that without the support
    of the majority of font makers you\u2019re wasting your time. If you think I'm
    making this up, perhaps you could confirm this off-line with Greg."
  created: '2006-03-11 18:01:54'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "I wonder if the \"pay to author\" model is best here. Is there another model?
    \"Pay to view\" certainly isn't going to work. <em>\"Welcome to Typophile. To
    veiw this site, please purchase Gotham and Mercury.\"</em> By the way, it's not
    just websites that are going to have this problem. I know that this is going to
    shock some folks here, but the printing press is going away. It might not be next
    week, but it's going to happen. All type will be digital. For all the type designers
    who are afraid of embedded fonts: either we figure something out or everything
    from books to phones will be TNR/Arial, or whatever preinstalled flavor of the
    week. We will take the font choice out of the designers hands. Designers are the
    ones who value and will buy new type. Take away their ability to spec new type,
    and no one is buying new type. \r\n\r\nThink about it. If designers could use
    a new font on every web site, phone, ebook, signage system, etc, they would. And
    they would pay for it, or even better, get their client to pay for it.\r\n\r\nI
    think that PDF/Flash are headed in the right direction. While they don't completely
    protect fonts from piracy, most people don't know how/won't go to effort to rip
    the font data out. A pdf style embedded format + css support would solve a lot
    of problems. While I hate DRM as a consumer and as a lover of free (as in freedom)
    information, future software/hardware will give type designers a lot more power
    to control who is using their fonts, and what they are using it for."
  created: '2006-03-11 18:19:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>All type will be digital.</em>\r\n\r\ngosh, i hope that's not any time
    soon!"
  created: '2006-03-11 18:58:38'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "It will be sooner than people think. Of course there will still be books,
    but they will serve a different purpose as art objects. Already physical newspapers
    are beginning to wilt. The same is true for annual reports. Next will be paperbacks.
    But that is a different thread.\r\n\r\nIn the mean time, we need to be looking
    ahead to what the font industry will do to take advantage of the more flexible
    and content hungry medium of the data driven screen. Will the content all be textual,
    with default fonts and smatterings of images as it is on the web? Or will type
    be a vehicle of expression as it is with print. We can help decide.\r\n\r\nEmbedding
    is the only way for this to happen. It can happen in one of two ways. 1) Device
    makers will commission fonts for their devices, and all dynamic content on these
    devices will be drawn in these fonts. Or 2) the devices will support open formats
    that allow the content authors to embed fonts. If we go with option one, we will
    have a very restricted type pallete and very few type designers will make money
    selling custom designs to device manufacturers. If we go with option two, the
    market will be much broader, and the content on our devices will be way cooler.
    Go open embedding standards!"
  created: '2006-03-11 20:27:54'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>Of course there will still be books, but they will serve a different
    purpose as art objects.</cite>\r\nLeading to the great letterpress renaissance,
    perhaps. When physical books are \"premium\" goods, I assume that more readers
    will be willing to learn the value of letterpress, if only to display their good
    taste."
  created: '2006-03-11 21:10:10'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "Here's a thought: \r\n\r\nWhat if there was an independent organization which
    would make fonts available to the general public for use on the web (mainly).
    The organization would negotiate a license fee with font developers to secure
    the right to do this on a font-by-font or family-by-family basis. The fees, of
    course, would have to be enough to offset the probable loss that would by incurred
    by the font developer for having his/her fonts freely available. It would have
    the advantage that no new font format would need to be developed. This is already
    being done to some extent with fonts bundled with operating systems, so it's not
    a totally radical idea.\r\n\r\nThe only big downside I can see in this scenario
    (one that Nick Shinn will probably have thought of already) is that it could have
    a chilling effect on the development and sale of fonts not privileged to be licensed
    by such an organization. It would be the bundled font problem squared. Or maybe
    not. The question is, who are buying fonts now and would they buy fewer in such
    a scenario? Perhaps fonts not in the pool would be more highly valued by designers,
    just as many of them shun bundled fonts now. I don't know."
  created: '2006-03-11 21:53:21'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> The bullet points are:\r\n1. Convince the Font Companies to Surrender Their
    Monopoly\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/monop.png]"
  created: '2006-03-11 23:46:08'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: I don't know if anyone has pointed this out, but if there is more than one
    company, it's not a monopoly.
  created: '2006-03-12 00:48:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Digital type forced \"The Font Companies\" to surrender their monopoly years
    ago. People were only bound to a font company when they still produced very expensive
    output equipment that only worked on their own fonts. Today, fonts are dirt cheap
    and not locked into any special equipment.\r\nI would like to clarify the difference
    between \"digital\"  type which is used for printing, and \"screen type\"  (or
    pixel based type) which is meant to be read on a monitor.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-12 00:54:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Mark is right but it is even further than that.  When their were a few type
    giants with their proprietary equipment competing with each other, you could have
    said they were \"The Man\" and poor soul graphic designers and type buyers were
    beholding to them. Today, there is no THE Man. Type designers are little cottage
    industry guys who work out of their modest houses for less money than graphic
    designers make. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-12 01:04:37'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Among the keynote speakers were Bucky Fuller and Marshall McLuhan, and
    the attending audience was filled with luminaries such as Andy Warhol, who made
    a personal statement by sitting in the lounge during the entire conference reading
    the New York Times</em>.\r\n\r\nNorbert, I envy your encounter with Fuller; I
    have often found myself completely turned around by his unique way of approaching
    problems. Along with Lewis Mumford and Ernst Cassirer, Fuller was one of the true
    visionaries of the twentieth century.\r\n\r\nSince I attended a small, conservative
    Catholic college in the 1960s, I also had occasion to meet Marshall McLuhan (yes,
    a conservative Catholic), whom I found far more approachable and actually interested
    in talking <em>with</em> (rather than <em>down to</em>) students than William
    F. Buckley (also a conservative Catholic, who had a nephew attending the college).
    And, oddly enough, connections through this same college (long and involved story)
    allowed me to meet Andy Warhol: all I can say about Andy is that he was a mighty
    fine shoe illustrator who looked into the soul of America, and learned its deepest,
    darkest secrets of shameless self-promotion. Everything that Steve Jobs is today
    he owes to Andy..."
  created: '2006-03-14 01:11:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "When I was a very young design assistant at Westinghouse Corporate design
    Center in 1968, The Westinghouse vice presidents contracted Bucky Fuller to come
    and give a talk in our office conference room.  It was mostly for senior staff
    and the big wheel suits but I got to come along to take pictures of the event.
    \ As everyone was going in to the room, Bucky was at the door and was being introduced
    to all the upper staff.  Bucky quickly noticed that only the suits were being
    introduced to him.  He countered the measure by asking the VP, \"but who is that?\"
    (pointing to the secretary) and \"Who is that?\" (pointing to me).  He walked
    over and gave a warmer and very sincere greeting to all the unannounced than to
    all the big wheels. He gave a fantastic talk about consciousness to design needs
    of the world being more important than profit only thinking.\r\nI will never forget
    him for being a caring human being (and for seeking me out to say hello). \r\nWhen
    I find the pictures I took of him, I will post one.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: dezcom
      picture: 109959
    body: "Finally found the pictures!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.graphicart-news.com/2011/07/feel-power-of-buckminster-fullers-words.html"
    created: '2011-07-12 18:18:41'
  created: '2006-03-14 02:07:42'
- author:
    name: Marten Thavenius
    picture: 110457
  body: "W3C did their part of the job back in 1998 and specified it in CSS2:\r\nhttp://www.w3.org/TR/CSS2/fonts.html#referencing\r\n\r\nThis
    is the syntax that IE has been using.\r\n\r\nIt is beyond W3C\u2019s scope to
    define the technical implementation of their specifications, the nature of linked
    in resources and the protection of data linked in and used on a web page. To understand
    this, think about how images are working on web pages: W3C have defined how to
    point to image resources and how to control the appearance of images on the web
    page, but they have never defined what kind if image formats a browser should
    support, how the rendering engine should work or how image ownership should be
    protected.\r\n\r\n/m\xE5rten"
  created: '2006-03-26 11:07:22'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"every time the open standards issue comes up there are a handful of voices
    here that make the valid argument that without the support of the majority of
    font makers you\u2019re wasting your time. If you think I\u2019m making this up,
    perhaps you could confirm this off-line with Greg.\"\r\n\r\nI don't tink you are
    making this up. I trust you, but don't understand the difference between what
    we have now, and an \"Open Standard.\" The only thing that flash won't do, e.g.
    is produce quality type on the screen. There is nothing to stop anyone from using
    any fonts with flash is there?"
  created: '2006-03-26 14:06:34'
- author:
    name: jasonc
    picture: 111045
  body: "Sorry for being late to th discussion here, but the core problem here is
    much more basic:\r\nThe web is being used in a way it was never designed for.\r\nThe
    reason that HTML (and it's descendants) do not have a good way of dealing with
    fonts is that the medium was built around CONTENT, not APPEARANCE. This has been
    lost along the way. The intention of HTML was a markup language, a way to convey
    the information, with the appearance having options only as necessary to aid in
    the understanding of the information. The idea was that each viewer would see
    it in a different font, and that was OK. The content was the important thing.\r\n\r\nNow,
    I'm not saying that intent is even valid. In the business we are in, I think most
    of us believe that separating content from appearance is not valuable, and separating
    appearance from understanding is even futile. But the point is that we've been
    trying to \"tweak\" this technology for the past 15 years to make it do something
    that's essentially in opposition to it's original purpose. We probably should
    have made a real paradigm shift a decade or so ago, and perhaps that's  still
    what we need, as far as the type of document that's transmitted on the web.  "
  created: '2006-05-07 04:03:06'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: 'jason: your point is well taken, but I think the story of HTML is a little
    more complicated than that. Strict separation of structure from presentation is
    one of the philosophical threads behind the creation of HTML, but early HTML was
    just as strongly influenced by pragmatic implementors who didn''t mind putting
    in tags for appearance either. It''s too bad those early decisions were all made
    by people with no typographic sophistication, but that''s a separate issue. I
    find it at least plausible that the success of HTML is due to its success at hybridizing
    the two philosophies, rather than being slavish to just structure (as is the case
    for many XML technologies today, like RSS), or just presentation (as in PostScript
    and less-enlightened PDF).'
  created: '2006-05-07 06:34:06'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: This discussion is based on weither the end user cares about type at all.
    The browsers will just substitute something simular based on a heirarcy. Is the
    font more important than the content of the message? I wouldn't cave in to designers
    who want to change the media at the expense of other peoples creativity and effort.
    If you create something (writing, type, design) you deserve to be fairly compensated.
    End of argument.
  created: '2006-05-07 15:09:00'
- body: " clearance receiver stereo <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/index.html\">difference
    viagra levitra cialis</a> perfect sweeter tit<br>\r\n hughes digital satellite
    receiver <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-levitra-viagra.html\">cialis
    levitra viagra</a> handbag hobo prada<br>\r\n louis vuitton soft briefcase <a
    href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/which-is-better-viagra-cialis-or-levitra.html\">which
    is better viagra cialis or levitra</a> america book christian gate gay in plume
    stranger<br>\r\n 500 camcorder canon dv mini zr <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-levitra-difference-comparison.html\">viagra
    levitra difference comparison</a> replica louis vuitton purse<br>\r\n michael
    kors down jacket <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/buy-viagra-levitra-alternative-lavitra.html\">buy
    viagra levitra alternative lavitra</a> nuptse down jacket north face<br>\r\n old
    sagging tit woman <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/comparison-of-cialis-levitra-and-viagra.html\">comparison
    of cialis levitra and viagra</a> jacket lens oakley replacement straight<br>\r\n
    adidas firebird jacket <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-levitra-viagra-vs-vs.html\">cialis
    levitra viagra vs vs</a> baseball buy puma shoes<br>\r\n hughs jacket smoking
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/discount-cialis-levitra-viagra.html\">discount
    cialis levitra viagra</a> 2005 november online period phentermine statistics summary
    usage<br>\r\n calorie burned mini trampoline <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-viagra-comparison.html\">levitra
    viagra comparison</a> mini truckin mag<br>\r\n ax columbia ice jacket man shell
    soft <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-viagra-levitra.html\">cialis
    viagra levitra</a> bag messenger nylon prada<br>\r\n exclusive no deposit bonus
    casino <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/buy-viagra-online.html\">buy
    viagra online</a> pansat free to air receiver<br>\r\n ass phat shaking <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/between-difference-levitra-viagra.html\">between
    difference levitra viagra</a> 2006 jacket leather pellepelle<br>\r\n 3 book package
    stoogies video <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-versus-viagra.html\">levitra
    versus viagra</a> alana ass lee like that<br>\r\n book dating little love making
    mating mischief shags <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-and-cialis-and-viagra.html\">levitra
    and cialis and viagra</a> ass flower masterpiece tucci<br>\r\n coach replica <a
    href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-levitra-cialis.html\">viagra
    levitra cialis</a> bad credit first home loan time<br>\r\n ass lisa masterpiece
    sparxxx <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-levitra-sale-viagra.html\">cialis
    levitra sale viagra</a> boxing gloves windy<br>\r\n nova scotia student loan <a
    href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/compare-levitra-viagra.html\">compare
    levitra viagra</a> receiver regenerative<br>\r\n black blank book head playboy
    rabbit <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/buy-levitra-viagra.html\">buy
    levitra viagra</a> blue book border civil gray guide in in in maryland site state
    time walk war<br>\r\n ass beach booty bun culo g guy guy he him his male man man
    south string tanga thong <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/compared-levitra-viagra.html\">compared
    levitra viagra</a> dungeon nyc bdsm<br>\r\n leather laptop carrier briefcase <a
    href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-vs-viagra.html\">levitra
    vs viagra</a> mural mini blinds<br>\r\n bitch book cassie courtland worm <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-levitra.html\">viagra
    levitra</a> freddy gloves krueger mask<br>\r\n longaberger purse sister <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/buy-levitra-viagra-online.html\">buy
    levitra viagra online</a> graphic pascal turbo turtle<br>\r\n vulcan mini gun
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-cialis-levitra.html\">viagra
    cialis levitra</a> 1999 book book guinness guinness record record world<br>\r\n
    racing sparco puma shoes <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-viagra.html\">levitra
    viagra</a> gear headstock lathe metal mini<br>\r\n longaberger purse tote <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-levitra-sales-viagra.html\">cialis
    levitra sales viagra</a> hello jacket kitty snowboard<br>\r\n popcap book worm
    free game <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/generic-viagra.html\">generic
    viagra</a> dilly letter jacket<br>\r\n buick grand national regal turbo <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/buy-levitra-online-viagra.html\">buy
    levitra online viagra</a> neumann receiver gloves<br>\r\n mizuno classic baseball
    gloves <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/difference-viagra-levitra-cialis.html\">difference
    viagra levitra cialis</a> enter the world of deltora deltora quest 1 the forest
    of silence deltora shadowlands 1 cavern of fear deltora book of monster<br>\r\n
    nfl collage jacket <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-levitra-viagra.html\">cialis
    levitra viagra</a> denise austin mini stepper plus<br>\r\n address book hilton
    paris sidekick <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/which-is-better-viagra-cialis-or-levitra.html\">which
    is better viagra cialis or levitra</a> lyric to bother by stone sour<br>\r\n audio
    book catcher in rye <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-levitra-difference-comparison.html\">viagra
    levitra difference comparison</a> camouflage purse wholesale<br>\r\n art book
    christian from from galaxy illustration in painting renaissance sign symbol <a
    href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/buy-viagra-levitra-alternative-lavitra.html\">buy
    viagra levitra alternative lavitra</a> nada blue book motor home<br>\r\n 2007
    gloves grenade <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/comparison-of-cialis-levitra-and-viagra.html\">comparison
    of cialis levitra and viagra</a> pediatric stepping stone<br>\r\n affiliate florida
    herbal viagra <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-levitra-viagra-vs-vs.html\">cialis
    levitra viagra vs vs</a> calculator certificate deposit rate<br>\r\n karbon ski
    jacket <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/discount-cialis-levitra-viagra.html\">discount
    cialis levitra viagra</a> casino frog online prince slot<br>\r\n clip large suckable
    tit video <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-viagra-comparison.html\">levitra
    viagra comparison</a> puma jamaica brushspike<br>\r\n devil download prada torrent
    wear <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-viagra-levitra.html\">cialis
    viagra levitra</a> guide marmo natural selection stone studio<br>\r\n 3rd answer
    book cd edition question review rom technician veterinary <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/buy-viagra-online.html\">buy
    viagra online</a> wachovia certificate of deposit<br>\r\n brandy big tit patrol
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/between-difference-levitra-viagra.html\">between
    difference levitra viagra</a> devil prada wallpaper wear<br>\r\n 12a engine turbo
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-versus-viagra.html\">levitra
    versus viagra</a> charged mustang turbo<br>\r\n closeout snowboard jacket <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-and-cialis-and-viagra.html\">levitra
    and cialis and viagra</a> replica designer purse<br>\r\n receiver hitch extension
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-levitra-cialis.html\">viagra
    levitra cialis</a> consolidate loan spouse student<br>\r\n columbia thunderscout
    jacket <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-levitra-sale-viagra.html\">cialis
    levitra sale viagra</a> based devil prada wear<br>\r\n http samaritans purse uk
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/compare-levitra-viagra.html\">compare
    levitra viagra</a> columbia jacket mammoth peak<br>\r\n kelly blue book camper
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/buy-levitra-viagra.html\">buy
    levitra viagra</a> blakes blakes book illustration job job william<br>\r\n alternative
    book house larsons publisher publisher religion tyndale world <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/compared-levitra-viagra.html\">compared
    levitra viagra</a> ass bum butt emily naked nude<br>\r\n california renters right
    and security deposit <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-vs-viagra.html\">levitra
    vs viagra</a> cast devil prada wear<br>\r\n nike wide receiver gloves <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-levitra.html\">viagra
    levitra</a> book coevolution soft tech<br>\r\n bag briefcase brown lacy leather
    ney portfolio <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/buy-levitra-viagra-online.html\">buy
    levitra viagra online</a> handbag leather prada white<br>\r\n audio book catcher
    in rye <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cheaper-viagra-levitra-cialis.html\">cheaper
    viagra levitra cialis</a> ass monique parade<br>\r\n ford gt joes turbo twin <a
    href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-levitra-cialis-apcalis-regalis-zenegra.html\">viagra
    levitra cialis apcalis regalis zenegra</a> devil prada torrent wear<br>\r\n marine
    biology coloring book <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-viagra-vs.html\">levitra
    viagra vs</a> stephenville yellow jacket<br>\r\n callaway twin turbo <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-and-levitra-viagra.html\">cialis
    and levitra viagra</a> 2004 bag free handbag handbag prada prada space<br>\r\n
    1 latin level rosetta rosetta stone stone <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-vs-levitra.html\">viagra
    vs levitra</a> date devil dvd prada release wear<br>\r\n 2005 ambien buy january
    period summary <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/2003-cialis-levitra-market-sales-viagra.html\">2003
    cialis levitra market sales viagra</a> bad consolidation credit debt loan unsecured<br>\r\n
    down front hood jacket madden steve zipper <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cyalis-levitra-sales-viagra.html\">cyalis
    levitra sales viagra</a> briefcase rawlings<br>\r\n 1993 rx7 sale turbo twin <a
    href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-levitra-comparison.html\">viagra
    levitra comparison</a> prada reading glasses<br>\r\n prada man jacket <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/2003-cyalis-levitra-market-sales-viagra.html\">2003
    cyalis levitra market sales viagra</a> checkbook prada wallet<br>\r\n exclusive
    no deposit bonus casino <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-compare-viagra.html\">levitra
    compare viagra</a> prada aaa replica<br>\r\n womens puma ribera <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-comparison-viagra.html\">levitra
    comparison viagra</a> letterman greek jacket<br>\r\n go let lucas mets prada <a
    href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/comparison-levitra-viagra.html\">comparison
    levitra viagra</a> nude puma swede<br>\r\n olympia motorcycle jacket <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-vs-levitra-vs-cialis.html\">viagra
    vs levitra vs cialis</a> toyota supra twin turbo for sale<br>\r\n cooled mini
    moto water <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cheaper-viagra-levitra-apcalis.html\">cheaper
    viagra levitra apcalis</a> book chi complete dvd guide idiot qigong tai<br>\r\n
    receiver rx v659 yamaha <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-imperial-levitra-libidus-viagra-yohimbe.html\">cialis
    imperial levitra libidus viagra yohimbe</a> purse scripture wholesale<br>\r\n
    consolidation federal loan stafford <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/compare-levitra-cialis-versus-viagra.html\">compare
    levitra cialis versus viagra</a> book funny guest homeless homeless homeless<br>\r\n
    amazon bargain book booksense buying finding marketplace money online online other
    saving site store <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/ciacil-is-this-better-then-viagra-and-levitra.html\">ciacil
    is this better then viagra and levitra</a> buy phentermine online pharmacy<br>\r\n
    best consolidation loan rate student <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-cialis-viagra.html\">levitra
    cialis viagra</a> ruger mini 14 gb<br>\r\n belt fucking garter heel high video
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-cyalis-levitra-compared.html\">viagra
    cyalis levitra compared</a> ferrari puma sneaker<br>\r\n belt garter hose <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/what-is-better-viagra-or-levitra.html\">what
    is better viagra or levitra</a> bag free handbag handbag pink prada prada space<br>\r\n
    kauai mini rental van <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-levitra-link-pharmacies-com-viagra.html\">cialis
    levitra link pharmacies com viagra</a> digital eurostar receiver satellite<br>\r\n
    handbag messenger prada <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/compare-viagra-and-levitra.html\">compare
    viagra and levitra</a> jacket leather man wolverine x<br>\r\n bag gauffre prada
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/difference-between-cialis-levitra-viagra.html\">difference
    between cialis levitra viagra</a> puma game warden knife<br>\r\n creation henge
    midwinter stone <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cialis-levitra-link-pharmacies.com-viagra.html\">cialis
    levitra link pharmacies.com viagra</a> b3 bomber jacket<br>\r\n hellion kit turbo
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/apcalis-levitra-viagra.html\">apcalis
    levitra viagra</a> book cd comprehensive kaplan macintosh mcat review rom window<br>\r\n
    consolidation debt loan mortgage refinance <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/levitra-buy-levitra-online-viagra.html\">levitra
    buy levitra online viagra</a> 420a kit turbo<br>\r\n homebrew receiver regenerative
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/comparison-of-levitra-and-viagra.html\">comparison
    of levitra and viagra</a> mercantile safe deposit and trust co<br>\r\n honda accord
    blue book value <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-and-levitra.html\">viagra
    and levitra</a> montessori stepping stone<br>\r\n 2007 book guinness record world
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/cheap-viagra.html\">cheap viagra</a>
    henge lodge stone<br>\r\n reese receiver hitch <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-alternative-levitra.html\">viagra
    alternative levitra</a> puma boxing boot<br>\r\n stone temple pilot plush acoustic
    <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/compare-viagra-26-levitra.html\">compare
    viagra 26 levitra</a> stone stone tawnee tori<br>\r\n book cambridge cambridge
    cd preparation preparation rom test test toefl toefl <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/compare-viagra-to-levitra.html\">compare
    viagra to levitra</a> cheap viagra ambien generic cananda<br>\r\n cutter fit gloves
    man pro receiver <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/free-viagra.html\">free
    viagra</a> book border oregon portland store<br>\r\n calcium deposit on face <a
    href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-online.html\">viagra online</a>
    ambien appearance cr<br>\r\n facial calcium deposit <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/buy-viagra.html\">buy
    viagra</a> custom made varsity jacket<br>\r\n book download download free free
    friday garden nancy pdf secret <a href=\"http://www.fiberguide.com/awmdata/temp/viagra-for-women.html\">viagra
    for women</a> no telecheck payday loan<br>\r\n book gi guide official oh primas
    rule strategy yu <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/index.html\">free
    hardcore pic</a> america cup prada woman<br>\r\n bomber jacket shearling <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/index1.html\">hardcore
    babes</a> adidas reversible jacket<br>\r\n 2006 agent agent book book editor editor
    guide guide hermans hermans jeff jeff literary literary over publisher publisher
    them they they want who win <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-gang-bang.html\">hardcore
    gang bang</a> brown prada handbag<br>\r\n bdsm forum megaupload <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/tiffany-teen-hardcore.html\">tiffany
    teen hardcore</a> turbo xs bov<br>\r\n fta receiver forum <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hands-hardcore.html\">hands
    hardcore</a> belt garter lace stretch<br>\r\n prada tennis shoes <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/free-hardcore-cam.html\">free
    hardcore cam</a> devil movie prada script wear<br>\r\n briefcase leather tumi
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/raven-riley-hardcore.html\">raven
    riley hardcore</a> book guest homeless ontario ontario<br>\r\n ass bum butt hoe
    naked pantie skirt slut slut underwear undies <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/free-hardcore-porn.html\">free
    hardcore porn</a> prada outlet store<br>\r\n digital panorama receiver satellite
    software <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/big-tit-hardcore.html\">big
    tit hardcore</a> bad credit guaranteed home loan<br>\r\n mainstays mini blind
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/against-am-hardcore-i-indie-petrossian-prayer-punk-refugee-rise-rock-tony.html\">against
    am hardcore i indie petrossian prayer \r\npunk refugee rise rock tony</a> hat
    lacey pirate<br>\r\n boundary face jacket north triclimate <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/jordan-capri-hardcore.html\">jordan
    capri hardcore</a> anthology archaeological from henge samarkand stone travel
    writing<br>\r\n puma soccer sock <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-bondage.html\">hardcore
    bondage</a> book business e home marketing mentoring mlm network online work<br>\r\n
    barbour jacket sale <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/free-hardcore.html\">free
    hardcore</a> suede western jacket with fringe<br>\r\n shrine stone tawnee <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/experimental-hardcore-indie-leviathan-mastodon-metal-progressive-seabeast.html\">experimental
    hardcore indie leviathan \r\nmastodon metal progressive seabeast</a> twin book
    case headboard<br>\r\n receiver satellite tv xxasdf <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-day-and-soft-core-night.html\">hardcore
    day and soft core night</a> prada replica wholesale<br>\r\n prada handbag knockoffs
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-orgy.html\">hardcore
    orgy</a> billionaire boy club jacket varsity<br>\r\n discounted handbag prada
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/plumper-hardcore.html\">plumper
    hardcore</a> delysid dose<br>\r\n civic edelbrock kit turbo <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-orgasm.html\">hardcore
    orgasm</a> resistol cowboy hat<br>\r\n no deposit poker <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/busty-hardcore.html\">busty
    hardcore</a> little yellow jacket pbr<br>\r\n 2006 april cheap period phentermine
    statistics summary usage <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-sluts.html\">hardcore
    sluts</a> award gloves gold rawlings<br>\r\n toshiba dst3000 hdtv satellite receiver
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/black-hardcore.html\">black
    hardcore</a> 921 dish network receiver<br>\r\n echostar satellite receiver <a
    href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-sex-party.html\">hardcore
    sex party</a> meltabs sample viagra<br>\r\n mini plaid skirt <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-movie-forum.html\">hardcore
    movie forum</a> adidas beckenbauer jacket track<br>\r\n pioneer elite av receiver
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/redhead-hardcore.html\">redhead
    hardcore</a> hd receiver viewsat<br>\r\n 2005 ambien daily jan order statistics
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/blonde-hardcore-sex.html\">blonde
    hardcore sex</a> battery camcorder compaq dv mini sony<br>\r\n vintage rawlings
    baseball gloves <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-group.html\">hardcore
    group</a> ls1 turbo system<br>\r\n joss stone spoiled lyric <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/calling-faith-hardcore-movement-new-suspect-unusual.html\">calling
    faith hardcore movement new suspect unusual</a> 2005 basic book cd edition express
    now playing visual<br>\r\n north face steep tech jacket <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/tranny-hardcore.html\">tranny
    hardcore</a> anatomy book brain brain colorful coloring human introduction psychology<br>\r\n
    bomber jacket man shearling <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-teacher.html\">hardcore
    teacher</a> casino link online slot swapper version<br>\r\n stone sour bother
    tab <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/private-hardcore.html\">private
    hardcore</a> pilot stone temple wikipedia<br>\r\n prada knockoff sun glasses <a
    href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-black-sex.html\">hardcore
    black sex</a> purse silk thai wholesale<br>\r\n letterman cheerleader jacket <a
    href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/petite-hardcore.html\">petite
    hardcore</a> bear chicago fleece jacket<br>\r\n big tit round ass kylie <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/college-hardcore.html\">college
    hardcore</a> gloves grip padded receiver reebok speed<br>\r\n belt fighting garter
    girl man <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-gay-porn.html\">hardcore
    gay porn</a> kit mr2 spyder turbo<br>\r\n 350z greddy turbo <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/young-hardcore.html\">young
    hardcore</a> puma california white orange<br>\r\n hand tooled leather purse <a
    href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/celebrity-hardcore.html\">celebrity
    hardcore</a> scarface leather jacket<br>\r\n asian book worm bitch <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/bbw-hardcore.html\">bbw
    hardcore</a> down jacket lucid moonstone<br>\r\n sap blue book a concise business
    guide to the world of sap <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/young-teen-hardcore.html\">young
    teen hardcore</a> garrett turbo rebuild kit<br>\r\n curve dose radiobiology response
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/extreme-hardcore.html\">extreme
    hardcore</a> notre dame varsity jacket<br>\r\n book box by club discusses hosseini
    in khaled kite novel runner <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-wife.html\">hardcore
    wife</a> beaded coin purse turtle<br>\r\n child prada shoes <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-porn-video.html\">hardcore
    porn video</a> handbag imitation prada<br>\r\n mini dv tape rewinder <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-training.html\">hardcore
    training</a> rawlings gloves mitts<br>\r\n man microfiber jacket <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-gallery.html\">hardcore
    gallery</a> book digital kelby photography scott<br>\r\n echostar satellite receiver
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-porn-movie.html\">hardcore
    porn movie</a> bra floppy tit<br>\r\n pelle leather jacket <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-sex-picture.html\">hardcore
    sex picture</a> activity adult bdsm free gallery image practice<br>\r\n 20g eclipse
    turbo <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-movie.html\">hardcore
    movie</a> chenille bed jacket<br>\r\n cialis genuinerx net viagra viagra <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/free-hardcore-movie.html\">free
    hardcore movie</a> gloves lady sonia<br>\r\n amethyst crystal from gem healing
    stone zircon <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-facial.html\">hardcore
    facial</a> jam turbo workout<br>\r\n puma h street man shoes <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-teen-porn.html\">hardcore
    teen porn</a> gauntlet gloves motorcycle<br>\r\n ass ava devine masterpiece <a
    href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/stocking-hardcore.html\">stocking
    hardcore</a> 2005 january order period phentermine summary<br>\r\n receiver satellite
    viewsat <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-pussy.html\">hardcore
    pussy</a> canvas handbag leather prada womens<br>\r\n civic edelbrock kit turbo
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-babes.html\">hardcore
    babes</a> puma sling back tennis shoes<br>\r\n handbag knock off prada <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-ass.html\">hardcore
    ass</a> attack gall pain stone symptom<br>\r\n nissan 350z twin turbo kit <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/cartoon-hardcore.html\">cartoon
    hardcore</a> nick nickelodeon turbo turbonick<br>\r\n spyder spine jacket <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-superstar.html\">hardcore
    superstar</a> academic consolidation loan services student<br>\r\n lactating milky
    tit <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/brunette-hardcore.html\">brunette
    hardcore</a> bourke dooney purse tartan<br>\r\n womens prada sneaker <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-boob.html\">hardcore
    boob</a> 1998 guinness book of world record<br>\r\n 2007 gloves grenade snowboarding
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-lesbian-sex.html\">hardcore
    lesbian sex</a> handbag ostrich prada skin<br>\r\n first jumper mini trampoline
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/latina-hardcore.html\">latina
    hardcore</a> wholesale designer replica handbag<br>\r\n turbo xs boost controller
    <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-anime.html\">hardcore
    anime</a> bag free handbag handbag milano prada prada space<br>\r\n gloves hydro
    leather protector rubber <a href=\"http://www.autoplates.com/Wincraft/Lakers/lakerss/hardcore-punk.html\">hardcore
    punk</a> stauffer gloves and safety<br>\r\n"
  created: '2007-05-02 08:20:06'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "A well-known artist was asked Why do work for money?\r\nHe replied asking
    And what for do you work?\r\nI work for fame, was the answer.\r\nThen you work
    for fame and I work for money, replied the artist.\r\n________________________\r\nSadly,
    I need all the help I can get in this enterprise."
  created: '2007-05-02 12:32:20'
- author:
    name: HaleyFiege
    picture: 112391
  body: "I'd rather risk going to jail by aquiring something illegally than purchase
    something with a DRM. \r\n\r\nWhats the deal with embedding fonts in flash? Is
    there a way to steal them that way? \r\n\r\nWhat about licensing fonts under a
    creative commons licenses that forbids commercial use?"
  created: '2007-05-15 16:12:07'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "A lot of people <em>are</em> doing steps 3, 4, and 5. <em>Fortunately</em>,
    this hasn't significantly contributed to the problems faced by the people who
    design type for a living... a generally thankless and poorly-paid task.\r\n\r\nGiven
    that situation, it is not so much that clarion cries to \"liberate\" type are
    perceived as threatening, as that type designers are left bemused by the belief
    that there's really much of a <em>problem</em> left to be fixed.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    while there are open-source versions of Times Roman, Helvetica, Baskerville, and
    even Century Schoolbook, and there are decent freeware (if not open-source) comic-book
    fonts too (even if one doesn't count the Blambot ones due to their restricted
    license), it <em>is</em> true that there's no good free substitute for Papyrus
    yet. Or Comic Sans!\r\n\r\nHowever, if one perceives it as a major problem that
    a free Linux distribution can't include the same variety of fonts as are included
    with, say, Corel products (which license a major chunk of the Bitstream catalogue)
    then this cry to \"liberate\" fonts <em>would</em> make sense, and I suspect this
    is the sort of thinking that is behind this - the free software world is to match
    what the pay software world does in every respect, until Microsoft, Corel, Oracle,
    and many other companies end up giving their products away and exist by selling
    support, just like Red Hat."
  created: '2011-07-13 00:57:24'
- author:
    name: abattis
    picture: 112245
  body: "<em>there's no good free substitute for Papyrus yet. Or Comic Sans!</em>\r\n\r\nNow
    there's an idea ;)"
  created: '2011-07-14 10:50:28'
- author:
    name: fontdesigner2
  body: I'm too dumb to understand the half of what half of you are talking about.
  created: '2011-07-31 20:35:39'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Hey, understanding three-quarters of what is being discussed here isn't bad!
  created: '2011-07-31 21:10:12'
- author:
    name: "T\xE9 Rowan"
    picture: 121227
  body: Well, I call it a good day if I understand one-fourth of what's going on.
  created: '2011-07-31 21:47:05'
date: '2006-03-09 15:51:46'
title: Five Steps to Font Freedom

---
