---
author:
  name: erictastic
body: "Hi everyone,\r\nI'm a Graphic Design student, and i've always loved type. From
  time to time, I've tried creating my own typefaces on paper. Problem is, i'll create
  a few letterforms and then when I try to expand beyond that, the letters start to
  lose their resemblance to my original idea. So I guess my question would be...what's
  a good letter to start with? I usually start with a lowercase A, but is there a
  better starting point to help maintain consistancy among the letterforms? I browse
  free font sites a lot, and see a lot of HORRIBLY designed fonts, and I would rather
  produce something a professional designer might actually use. Also, any general
  tips or books I should pick up would be great as well.\r\nThank you all,\r\nEric"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'wiki is your friend... http://typophile.com/wiki/Drawing_How-To '
  created: '2006-03-13 18:26:59'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "I'm not a designer, but I can report what the big guns start with, according
    to the New Yorker profile on Matthew Carter from December.\r\n\r\nAccording to
    Tobias Frere-Jones, the \"classic approach\" is to begin with H and O, then R.\r\n\r\nCarter
    likes to start with h and o, then p and d, then maybe v.\r\n\r\nThe article goes
    into a bit more detail about why those strike the designers as good places to
    start. I recommend it."
  created: '2006-03-13 18:29:36'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: 'Books you might look into are: <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1567922406/sr=8-1/qid=1142274800/ref=pd_bbs_1/103-8312350-7795814?%5Fencoding=UTF8">Letters
    of Credit</a> and <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0879233338/qid=1142274852/sr=2-1/ref=pd_bbs_b_2_1/103-8312350-7795814?s=books&v=glance&n=283155">Anatomy
    Of A Typeface</a>'
  created: '2006-03-13 18:34:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eric,\r\nThere is no magic way. It just takes a great deal of time and effort.
    \ If it is a labor of love for you, then you will push through it all and end
    up with a type you approve of. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-13 18:42:47'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Don't forget purpose! I don't hear the end of that ! ( cough cough )
  created: '2006-03-13 18:57:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Books you might look into are: Letters of Credit and Anatomy Of A Typeface</em>\r\n\r\n...and
    [[Logo_font_and_lettering_bible|The Bible]]"
  created: '2006-03-13 18:57:27'
- author:
    name: Toby
    picture: 109971
  body: I like to start with the letters that inspire me the most, and that got me
    started thinking of the design in the first place. Often that is R or a for some
    reason. Font building-wise, i think o, i, p, v (in that order) is a good start
    and then the same for uppercase.
  created: '2006-03-13 19:11:45'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Good call Paul...for some reason The Bible didn't catch that thought train.
  created: '2006-03-13 19:24:37'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "I'm going to sound like a total dick for saying so, but only a complete novice
    would draw the alphabet in order: abcdefgh etc.\r\n\r\nIt's one thing to draw
    a typeface on paper, and quite another to draw a typeface in software. Personally,
    when I'm drawing a typeface on paper, the letters come out in no order, and I
    don't direct them; one thing leasds to another. For giggles, here's what I have
    drawn in my sketchbook. (Each line is a different page):\r\nknitsse / efagior
    / EDL / n\r\nANSWER / WW\r\nFJ / MMN / ZZ WVY / FFFZFJ / TZ\r\n245011 / 786 ENC
    / E 3 q 6\r\n2 21 / 5 4 478 / 8336\r\nverygaaa / V V U A B / D R P Q S / X S T\r\n01233445
    / 222229 / 97778 / 88614\r\nk kentis / ornacri / koikiva\r\nvillage / ubibir /
    r rare\r\naf affluent / f azimxu / yungli\r\n\r\nMakes no sense, of course\r\n\r\nWhen
    drawing letterforms in FontLab or FreeHand, the n and o are starting points. From
    there you're led to make h, l, r, u, and m, as well as p, d, b, q... Things lead
    to other things which suggest still other things.\r\n\r\nI'd be curious to know
    how many people drawn randomly versus those who have a plan of attack..."
  created: '2006-03-13 19:45:38'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>the letters start to lose their resemblance to my original idea</em>\r\n\r\nI
    hate to say it but, if that's the case, you probably didn't have a very clear
    idea to begin with. Well-designed typefaces generally follow well-defined rules.
    Try to determine what those rules are, and the rest comes pretty easily."
  created: '2006-03-13 20:23:06'
- author:
    name: erictastic
  body: "Wow, thanks for your input everyone. I definitely will take all the advice
    given into consideration. My father was a sign painter in the days before vinyl,
    and he instilled in me a love for letters. As far as you guys \"sounding rude,\"
    I actually prefer a blunt, no-BS approach to answering my questions. Especially
    from people who know leaps and bounds more than I do. Thank you all!\r\n-Eric"
  created: '2006-03-13 21:17:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you probably didn\u2019t have a very clear idea to begin with\r\n\r\nMaybe,
    but there's also the paradox that <cite>things change</cite> when you go from
    certain modes of drawing/painting/whatever to digital outlines. The severe exactitude
    of the latter (in constrast to the interpretation-inviting fuzziness of the former)
    typically imparts a particular -and often unexpected- flavor to the results. And
    lack of experience with this can lead to a sense of confusion concerning \"what
    happened?\" and \"how do I fix this?\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-13 22:32:45'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: http://www.typophile.com/node/6319
  created: '2006-03-13 23:12:57'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "http://www.typophile.com/node/4822\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/5833"
  created: '2006-03-13 23:21:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>only a complete novice would draw the alphabet in order </em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    that's how I've always worked!"
  created: '2006-03-13 23:40:28'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> Well, that\u2019s how I\u2019ve always worked!\r\n\r\nThat supports part
    of Chester's argument - even you were a novice at one time. ;-) What may be of
    interest is why you didn't change your practices over the years? "
  created: '2006-03-13 23:59:21'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>things change when you go from certain modes of drawing/painting/whatever
    to digital outlines. The severe exactitude of the latter (in constrast to the
    interpretation-inviting fuzziness of the former) typically imparts a particular
    -and often unexpected- flavor to the results</em>.\r\n\r\nThis is true; however,
    since our inquisitor in this forum is a design <strong>student</strong>, I presume
    that he (again, I presume) may never have had the opportunity, which was actually
    a <em>necessity</em> for those of us who began our careers in the pre-digital
    days, of actually working with pens, pencils, drafting tools and the like.\r\n\r\n<em>only
    a complete novice would draw the alphabet in order</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe, maybe not;
    on the other hand, perhaps only a complete fool would believe that there's a certain
    magic formula which must be followed to ensure font success. Back in ye olden
    days when I was doing only freeware fonts, I took notice of the words of Ray Larabie,
    who--at the time--was the king (or at least the most prolific) of the freeware
    fontmakers. His particular formula was to start with the lowercase h; from there,
    saith The Ray, all other letters flowed. However, when I attempted to follow this
    sage advice, it seemed to me that the only things that flowed naturally were m,
    n and, occasionally, r. So maybe I'm a dope, but the Larabie method didn't work
    for me. More often than not, what <strong>does</strong> seem to work for me is
    to begin with the uppercase I, especially if it's a serif face: once I nail it,
    the same basic form can be used on 20 other letters--a slightly better payoff
    than two or three. But that's just me...\r\n\r\nIf Nick Shinn's A-to-Z method
    works for him, then his method is beyond reproach. So, yes, Chester: you <strong>are</strong>
    a total dick for assuming your way is the only way, as are the Mac users who assume
    that their OS is the only OS, as are the PC users who assume that their OS is
    the only OS, and so on. In terms of how one chooses to tackle a project, the best
    approach FOR YOU is the one that works FOR YOU. After all, we're talking typography
    here, not religion..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Larry Will
    body: Typography is a religion! One of dedication to the stewardship of typographic
      language and its legacy.
    created: '2006-03-14 02:14:19'
  created: '2006-03-14 00:40:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oldnick, there's \"works\", then there's \"improvement\".\r\nEverybody can
    learn a better way to do something at\r\nany point in their life.\r\n\r\nAs for
    the student angle, you'd be surprised how heavy the\r\nLuddite population is among
    typical design school faculty.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-14 01:27:10'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I kinda thought Nick was joking about a to z order?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-14 01:51:06'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "I usually get any visual input (be it an other font, graphics design, some
    scribbles, architecture, etc.), and this is my starting point.\r\n\r\nThis input
    also decides which letter i draw first (on paper yet). The scribbling is terrible,
    not to be comparable to other scribblings I see here on typophile sometimes. I
    try some other characters, rather randomly, but they usually are lowercase (about
    10). I try to get every stylistic element in the draft, like stems, bowls, slants,
    etc., but I'm not too consequent. This phase is for developing the idea, so there
    can be different styles yet. I do not draw a \"final\" draft on paper, but start
    doing this on the computer.\r\nThere, i start with the character i'm in the mood
    for, but this often ends in the dilemma that I need another character first, because
    it influences the character I'd like to start with. So this is a continuous change
    of \"i want to\" and \"i have to do first\". Usually it ends up in doing \"n\",
    \"o\", \"H\", \"A\" as leading characters, and there, it is pretty much where
    the \"final\" style is determined.\r\nThen I do a-z and A-Z rather fast (2 days
    or so?), and then start the long long long balancing process. The problem then
    is, that I start to be keen on ligatures. I draw them too early and have to revise
    them about 100.000 times :)\r\nIf I've had enough of the design part, I start
    creating diacritics or do some opentype-coding...\r\n\r\nThis are the observations
    of a typedesign beginner still learning (3 fonts so far, none finished completely),
    but I think this is much more effective than the method I started with (a-z, A-Z
    from scratch). The problem there is, that you have the atypical characters first
    (a, e, g), which are difficult to derive a common style from.\r\n\r\nsebilar"
  created: '2006-03-14 10:37:35'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "<em>Everybody can learn a better way to do something at\r\nany point in their
    life</em>\r\n\r\nAbsolutely agreed: evolve or die, especially in the field of
    graphic arts. My point, however, was that for anyone to tout his or her approach
    as the best--or only--way to do something smacks of na\xEFvet\xE9 and/or hubris."
  created: '2006-03-14 13:41:28'
- author:
    name: erictastic
  body: Wow, again, thanks guys. It's finals week at school, so hopefully i'll get
    the chance to pick up a pencil ( I don't think a computer should EVER be the first
    step in the design process, unlike some of my classmates) and rough out a design.
    I'll be sure and let you guys have a time-lapse peek at my work as I complete
    it, and you'll hopefully have some equally good advice for me then. I'm so glad
    you're all friendly, and not so egotistical (though you have every right to be)
    that you insult my questions or give sarcastic responses. Thank you.
  created: '2006-03-14 14:50:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I don\u2019t think a computer should EVER be the first step in the design
    process\r\n\r\nSome of the world's best type designers work directly on the computer.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-14 14:58:27'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: 'On the pencil vs. computer: I do it both ways, sometimes more of one than
    the other. Each has its advantages, but it''s the artist''s eye not the tool that
    makes the letters.'
  created: '2006-03-14 15:34:46'
- author:
    name: alexhb
    picture: 110687
  body: "For some reason I find that when I do things straight on the computer the
    quality just isn't there. For me atleast, when it comes manipulating letterforms,
    the computer allows you to experiment to much without planning ahead. Because
    doing them by had takes time and effort, your more likely to think about it more
    thoroughly, and it also gives a better reference and allows you to develop a more
    robust style. Personally, the first letter I try is usually the lower-case \"a\"
    because it combines so many elements and quirks of the final face, I think it
    is a strong indicator of what the rest of the alphabet will be like.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I'm overthinking it!"
  created: '2006-03-15 04:39:25'
- author:
    name: alexhb
    picture: 110687
  body: "For some reason I find that when I do things straight on the computer the
    quality just isn't there. For me atleast, when it comes manipulating letterforms,
    the computer allows you to experiment to much without planning ahead. Because
    doing them by had takes time and effort, your more likely to think about it more
    thoroughly, and it also gives a better reference and allows you to develop a more
    robust style. Personally, the first letter I try is usually the lower-case \"a\"
    because it combines so many elements and quirks of the final face, I think it
    is a strong indicator of what the rest of the alphabet will be like.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    I'm overthinking it!"
  created: '2006-03-15 04:39:29'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "<em> I don\u2019t think a computer should EVER be the first step in the design
    process\r\nSome of the world\u2019s best type designers work directly on the computer.
    </em>\r\n\r\nThat may be true hrant, but how many of those started that way? I
    would venture to say that most would need a fairly solid grasp on forms before
    they skip steps, and as Mark so wisely remarks, \"... its the eye, not the tools.\""
  created: '2006-03-15 04:54:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Eric, I think Mark's statement actually supports my stance.\r\n\r\n> skip
    steps\r\n\r\nInstead of skipping steps, think of it as skipping crutches.\r\n\r\nI
    also use paper&pencil before the screen (except for highly constructed\r\nfonts,
    bitmaps being an extreme case). But I hope to grow out of it one day.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-15 05:34:42'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>why you didn\u2019t change your practices over the years?</em>\r\n\r\nIt
    works fine. I know what the \"rules\" of the typeface are, so I can work through
    a to z applying the rules. Then, when I have the first draft of each letter, I
    can try out combinations and change/refine characters to make it work better.
    If I show any preference in developing glyphs initially, that prejudices the overall
    concept. "
  created: '2006-03-15 06:09:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Is alphabetic order not just another \"prejudice\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-15 09:15:29'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "\u201C\u2026 its the eye, not the tools.\u201D\r\n\r\nBut the tool can hamper
    what you can do.\r\nI was just doing a 60ies-hippie-floral-design for a poster
    this week (clich\xE9-like weavy, colored forms flowing in each other, with some
    bloated letters hidden in them). I tried starting with illustrator, but had to
    give up because it just wasn't possible to get really flowing forms with that
    tool from scratch.\r\nA quick and dirty pencil draft, a quick scan, and redrawing
    it on the computer did the job...\r\nI think an artpad would have done it too.
    But the mouse did not.\r\n\r\nsebilar"
  created: '2006-03-15 10:46:06'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Mmmm? The pencil/pen, has nothing whatsoever to do with the recording of
    typefaces and usually gets in the way. Though you may find mental...play space
    in scratching around with old tools, it is only that, mental and play. when you're
    done you still need to execute a \"pure\" line which a pencil cannot do, and fails
    to represent in even the best sketch. Until the digital line is cut, and thus
    the letter recorded, nothing else counts, or matters since none of it is left
    when the dust clears from the digital font. \r\n\r\nAs for order of design, the
    press likes pat answers, but anyone whose done more than 1,000 or so, should tell
    you that \"it depends.\" e.g. if it is the first letter of a new family, you *can*
    \"start\" anywhere. But it is not until you draw the \"controls\" (noted elsewhere
    I'm sure), that you \"know\" the appearance of the repeating things and so you
    can finish by designing the unique things, and not \"chase your tail.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    it is not the first letter of a new family, there is an algorithm where the selection
    of character to draw is based on intended use that leads you from the existing
    styles to the right choice, which always follows after the control characters.
    E.g., if an agate is to be drawn well, based on the text face, then you must draw
    the controls from the text first, and then head for the most \"congested\" characters,
    like e.g., e or g, and then, loop back to the controls if you need to, early in
    the process, to make sure the controls and special-est characters, whatever they
    may be, work."
  created: '2006-03-15 14:14:17'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>\u201C\u2026 its the eye, not the tools.\u201D\r\nBut the tool can hamper
    what you can do.</em>\r\n\r\nOf course. I should add that you also have to know
    how to use your tools, whatever they are. The eye can't do it alone. (I'd be a
    lot more productive if it could. :-)\r\n\r\nI grew up making marks on paper, so
    that method is very natural to me for getting ideas out of my head, and that's
    its strength. The B\xE9zier curve is very precise and endlessly malleable, and
    that's its strength. The one thing I don't do anymore is to make precise drawings
    on paper. It's too slow and inefficient."
  created: '2006-03-15 15:00:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The B\xE9zier curve is ... endlessly malleable\r\n\r\nActually some people,
    like Raph, complain that\r\nit gives a certain -arbitrary- flavor to forms.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-15 15:20:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I wouldn't say it was arbitrary, perhaps just not quite willing to make the
    transition from straight to curve or back in a subtle enough way in some cases.
    This subtle difference may only appear to us type design wackos of the world.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-15 15:57:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Is alphabetic order not just another \u201Cprejudice\u201D?\r\n\r\nI find
    it helps avoid prejudice, because there is not much rhyme or reason to it, in
    terms of character shape. Some though -- i and j, m and n, and v and w, are beside
    each other, probably because of letters that were spun off others were placed
    next to their source letter.\r\n\r\nPerhaps that's the point of alphabetic order
    -- it's a special sequence of letters that doesn't contain any words longer than
    3 letters (OK Scrabblers, prove me wrong!)"
  created: '2006-03-15 16:16:51'
- author:
    name: chronicle
    picture: 109738
  body: I typically start with Hh Oo Nn Jj Pp to give me a look of every piece of
    the alphabet.
  created: '2006-03-15 16:52:22'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "Miine always change from pencil to screen. It's just the way it happens for
    me, I've become used to things not turning out the way I thought they would. Besides,
    it is far more interesting when they don't! \r\n\r\nI also find that a clear idea
    of purpose is extremely useful before I even start. Otherwise it's like trying
    to design a logo without a brief. <a href=\"http://www.klim.co.nz/content/lettering/letter.html\">Some
    sketches</a>, erictastic, are here if you are interested. You may note that some
    have migrated to the typeface section, others were just fancy."
  created: '2006-03-15 20:21:49'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "Bezier curves do impart a natural flavor to curves. If you're not careful
    stuff can start to look all the same. That being said, most people that say that
    you must start with a pencil suck at bezier curves. Since I can get my ideas out
    more quickly and clearly with beziers, that's where I often start. So my advice
    is this: if you are going to do type design, figure out how to use bezier curves.\r\n\r\nAs
    for which letter order you should use: it doesn't matter. I think it's a type
    design myth that doing the o and n first gives you a better sense of what the
    other characters are going to look like. In some ways, those characters are the
    most vanilla, and give you less of an idea than some of the more challenging characters.
    \r\n\r\nIf you are simply manufacturing a font, then it makes sense to start with
    o and h or even O or H, where elements can be easily reused. If you are designing
    a font, you might start anywhere your idea is most relevant."
  created: '2006-03-15 21:20:27'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>So my advice is this: if you are going to do type design, figure out
    how to use bezier curves.</em>\r\n\r\nAmen! Digital type is a medium. Without
    mastering the tools and building blocks of a medium, one will never get anywhere
    with it.\r\n\r\nCalligraphy and Lettering are different mediums. Sometime two
    or three of the mediums come together, and knowledge in one are can help in another,
    but this isn't a de facto transfer."
  created: '2006-03-15 21:38:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think it\u2019s a type design myth that doing\r\n> the o and n first
    gives you a better sense\r\n\r\nProbably not directly better, but certainly sooner.\r\nSimply
    because the elements they contain have higher frequency.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand,
    I do think that display fonts benefit\r\nfrom the opposite tactic, for the reason
    you give:\r\n\"... vanilla ... give you less of an idea ...\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-15 21:42:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: <a href="http://www.cs.ru.nl/~freek/books/wadtorr.sat">This</a> is how Dwiggins
    did it.
  created: '2006-03-15 22:06:11'
- author:
    name: oldnick
    picture: 109434
  body: "Sometimes alphabetic order can lead you down a primrose path from which there
    is no escape.  Several months back, I ran across an enchanting little typeface
    in a book of handlettering with very unusual serifs. They resembled a dancer's
    foot <em>en pointe</em>, and so I thought the name <em>Twinkletoes</em> would
    suit the typeface well.\r\n\r\nSince I was presented with a complete upper and
    lowercase alphabet A-z, I dutifully recreated them, and then fleshed out a complete
    character set. It was only <em>after</em> I imported all of my outlines into Fontographer,
    generated a PS font and opened it in FontLab (have I mentioned before that I think
    FogLamp is a rip?), and started the process of setting widths, sidebearings and
    kerning, did I discover a VERY serious problem. The alphabet fit together beautifully
    A-Z and a-z, but virtually EVERY other letter combination required kerning. Before
    I got too far into it, I estimated that, at my present clip, expanding the basic
    kerning to include accented characters would result in over 10,000 kerning pairs--not
    a practical solution. So, I shelved the project; maybe someday, when everything
    in my life is settled and I <em>need</em> some aggravation, I'll go back to this
    project.\r\n\r\nThe moral of the story: sometimes it works, sometimes it don't..."
  created: '2006-03-16 01:38:03'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: At <a href="http://www.typedesign.rdg.ac.uk/">Reading</a>, students are recommended
    to start with the letters <strong>a d e h i n o s</strong>, in no particular order.
    It (intentionally) misses letters with diagonal strokes, as for someone trying
    to design his/her (in most cases) first text typeface, those 8 above are a pretty
    good challenge to start with.
  created: '2006-03-16 03:57:58'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Often I start with something like habrgefits (a stripped-down \"[[hamburgefontstiv]]\")
    and HAOP, and play around with those. But sometimes I'll just do a handful and
    then fill in the rest in alphabetical order.\r\n\r\nI tend not to do a lot on
    paper, but I do spend a while refining the concepts in my head. Sometimes I can
    noodle on letterforms for days before I try anything. Occasionally I'll jot stuff
    down, but often it's only a few key elements to remind me of the serif structure,
    or relative proportions, or the like - not necessarily very many whole letters.\r\n\r\nI've
    noticed that there is a correlation (not a rule, just a correlation) between the
    age of the type designer and whether they draw on paper first. Seems like the
    50+ crowd tend to be overwhelmingly paper-firsters, and the under 40 crowd have
    a lot more folks who go straight to the computer.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-03-16 09:55:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thomas,\r\nThat makes me feel young at heart. I am 62 and don't start with
    paper and go straight to the computer. I started using Adobe Illustrator with
    version one and have never looked back to my hand drawing days.\r\n\r\nThanks
    for making me feel like a young wipper! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-16 13:14:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yeah, thanks Thomas!\r\nI started out on paper, but have worked directly
    on the computer since 1999, when I was 47."
  created: '2006-03-16 19:15:12'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "<cite>This is how Dwiggins did it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI made a pdf version from
    a library copy of this if anyone is interested. It's big though, I'd have to upload
    it somewhere."
  created: '2006-03-16 19:40:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I find that which letters I start with depends on the individual typeface,
    but in general terms I try to mix in both forms that establish proportion (h i
    n o) and what are usually 'characteristic' forms, i.e. letters that do more to
    establish the flavour or personality of the face, (a b e g). The lowercase a is
    often the first thing I sketch, since this letter more than any other establishes
    the personality of the face, but I don't finalise this letter until I have done
    things like h and o.\r\n\r\nIf I am working on a multiscript typeface, I'll work
    on the different writing systems concurrently. So alongside my initial Latin letters
    I'll be making initial Cyrillic or Greek etc."
  created: '2006-03-16 19:55:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Jackson, I'm interested.\r\n\r\n> If I am working on a multiscript typeface
    ...\r\n\r\nI think that's where it can get pretty complicated,\r\nand even more
    so important, to proceed carefully.\r\n\r\nIn addition to the effect of one's
    choices on the display/textiness of\r\nthe end result, there's the additional
    and equally (sometimes more so)\r\nimportant factor of skewing one script or the
    other (or the third, etc.!)\r\nin a certain inauthentic direction. Pure, grade-A
    quicksand.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-16 20:00:48'
- author:
    name: erictastic
  body: "Update: I just ordered, off Amazon, Bringhurst's book, and also the Logo,
    Font & Lettering Bible.\r\n\r\nCan't wait to get crackin' :)"
  created: '2006-03-17 19:44:21'
- author:
    name: erictastic
  body: Wow, both of my new books are amazing. I'm almost finished with The Bible,
    soon to start Elements of Typographic Style
  created: '2006-03-29 23:16:20'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: just to add another one, fred smeijers stated at a lecture in switzerland
    last november (or so) that he always starts with the combination anse, because
    after him, this combination includes most of the problems you'll face when designing
    a typeface.
  created: '2006-03-30 08:37:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> includes most of the problems you\u2019ll face\r\n\r\nYeah, who needs extenders?\r\n(Like
    everybody knows why all-caps is just as readable as mixed-case, right?)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-30 09:13:48'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "at least for me, ascenders/descenders are not as important for the design
    of a typeface as are a, n, s and e - in most designs (im talking about sketch
    phase, not about the end product).  but yeah, inormaly add a b or a d to the first
    letters, or a t.\r\n\r\ni dont have the time to read the whole thread right now,
    but nearly everybody agreed a page earlier that there is no right or wrong in
    this question. so why even bother discussing such stuff.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-30 10:36:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Because the point, and the joy, is in the gray?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-30 12:31:39'
- author:
    name: Caleb Ramsey
  body: "Gerald Unger, from Reading, recommended that I follow oehamburgvos (the OE
    is actually an ethel). He said that it would get me through with no problems.\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-06-10 00:29:10'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I think how the identity of a face is defined depends on how the initial
    idea came.\r\nFor this reason, the starting point to me has been often a different
    letter (or numeral), or a small group of them. When I started to learn software
    I played with geometric faces directly in FontStudio.\r\nLater on, all my few
    finished or released types have seen the first ideas generated in the form of
    pencil sketches.\r\n\r\nI think the best advice emerged from different perspectives.
    John Hudson with his huge experience is right, since you have to define or fix
    reference glyphs as the design proceeds, otherwise you'll lose focus (your problem).
    The key ones people underlined are the one to do, but it depends on the idea as
    well.\r\n\r\nWhat Nick Curtis said about not having a strong or clear idea at
    the beginning seems not to make much sense. As Hrant pointed out, a design evolves
    as you start considering its problems, and it may turn out to be good, or to be
    just a better basis for something else.\r\nBut I think you'll start seeing this
    in perspective.\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-10 22:14:46'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: maybe doing the letters in a pseudo-random order works for some type of fonts,
    but i doubt it's the most efficient, perfect way for each and every type of font
    you can make. i don't use any system, i let the font decide where it wants to
    go. not to be one of those "rules are meant to be broken" kind of people, but
    i don't think always following a specific order is always the way to go. the font
    should dictate it's own creation.
  created: '2006-06-10 22:36:16'
date: '2006-03-13 18:23:05'
title: Typeface design question

---
