---
author:
  name: Maurice Meilleur
  picture: 109643
body: "Fellow Typophiles, only you can help!\r\n\r\nTeaching faculty at the University
  of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign can propose courses for study abroad. For a long
  time, I've wondered how to reconcile professionally my vocation as a political theorist
  with my avocation for type and typography, and I thought: this might finally be
  it.\r\n\r\nI want to send our study abroad office a proposal for a three-week course
  in Europe on the politics of type/type design/typography, and/or the typography
  (etc.) of politics--something that might combine politics, history, graphic arts,
  industrial design, and so on. These short courses are available to all UIUC students,
  so there would likely be a mix of liberal arts and fine arts students taking part,
  most of them in their first or second years of school. The earliest this course
  could happen would be over winter break, from just after Christmas through the first
  couple weeks of the New Year. The office would like proposals by the 17th for consideration
  for the 06-07 session, but I'd rather not rush things for this year if it means
  sending a bad proposal. On the other hand, the proposal itself doesn't require a
  full itinerary and accounting of all the logistics and arrangements; that would
  happen over the next few months, assuming the proposal was accepted.\r\n\r\nSo,
  why am I asking for your help?\r\n\r\n<strong>1.</strong> Obviously, in a three-week
  course, you can't tackle every possible aspect of this sprawling topic, so I have
  to narrow it down pretty severely. I am mining Stanley Morison's Politics and Script,
  Robin Kinross's Modern Typography, and the Triumvirate for ideas, but there's not
  a lot in print I've found so far that makes this topic its main focus. So, I wonder:
  have any Typophiles taken or taught courses on this topic? What did you read? What
  topics did you cover? What were some of the more successful units that might stand
  alone as a three-week experience for students? I have thought of things like the
  history of the Romain du Roi, the discussion on the list last year about totalitarian
  typography, the politics involved in creating and disseminating different typographic
  technologies, and so on--but I think hearing your experiences and ideas would help
  me to narrow something down.\r\n\r\n<strong>2.</strong> Where should we go? Most
  of these courses visit one city, but I bet as many as two or three cities within
  a an easy day's rail trip of one another would be acceptable, depending on the topic
  up for study. I would like to take students to Germany (since I speak the language
  and know something about the country), but obviously Belgium and the Netherlands
  would be excellent candidates, too, given the history of European type design. Museums
  (like the Plantijn-Moretus) would be a big draw, as would chances to visit schools
  of design or foundries. The students will more than likely only speak English.\r\n\r\n<strong>3.</strong>
  Would anyone like to help--by inviting students to your office or school or local
  museum, by giving a talk or lecture or tour, by acting as a liaison between us and
  people who could help, whatever? There is almost certainly no money involved, but
  on the other hand, this is your chance to warp impressionable minds in a good direction,
  and it might take no more than a day of your time.\r\n\r\nThis could either be the
  greatest idea of my teaching career (it's not a high hurdle), or far too much for
  me to handle. I'd love your help in finding out which. Any and all ideas, reactions,
  and offers would be a great help."
comments:
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "This is a topic I am also very interested in, so I hope this thread develops.
    Here's my bibliographic contribution:\r\n\r\nRobin Kinross, \"Unjustified Text
    and the Zero Hour,\" in <em>Unjustified Texts: Perspectives on Typography</em>
    (London: Hyphen Press, 2002), 286-301.\r\n\r\nBy his own admission this essay
    is more of a sketch than a complete argument, but it may provide good food for
    thought about the relationship between the political climate and typographic elements
    (in this case the unjustified text emerging in the post WW2 world). \r\n\r\nThe
    other thing I thought of was the discussions provoked by Shaw and Bain's <em>Blackletter</em>
    exhibition and catalogue, which it sounds like you already are planning to address.
    \r\n\r\nGood luck with your planning!"
  created: '2006-03-14 15:39:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Lettering Tours of Europe have been done by <a href=\"http://www.letterspace.com/LETTERING_TOURS/index.htm\">these
    folks</a>. It seems that they no longer do this, but they can probably give you
    great advice. \r\n\r\nI think it is accurate to say that the great political,
    religious and social events influenced type, but not the other way around. Other
    than the invention of printing itself, which was a major social force, I think
    type design is more of an indicator than a cause. \r\n\r\nChapter IV of Harry
    Carter's 'A View of Early Typography,' though pedantic in style, gives a facinating
    account of the spread of roman type vs blackletter. Catholicism, the King of France,
    Calvinism and Lutheranism all play roles in it.\r\n\r\nOther notable changes are
    the dropping of the long s after the French revolution (I don't know the full
    story) and the saga of the Nazi promotion and then abandonment of blackletter,
    which is well documented. \r\n\r\n   "
  created: '2006-03-14 16:13:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "In the landscape of ideas concerning what facet of politics & type to\r\nfocus
    on, there's one big spike: blackletter. Take them to Germany,\r\nand be as pushy
    as possible. A pandora's box, but full of angels as\r\nwell as daemons.\r\n\r\n>
    which is well documented.\r\n\r\nNot well enough, since most people continue to
    associate\r\nblackletter with the Nazis, and more broadly with Germans,\r\nand
    even more broadly with enemies of Israel. Come to think\r\nof it, a detour to
    Israel during such a blackletter tour would\r\nbe da bomb.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-14 16:57:38'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "The history of blackletter <em>type</em> has always been political\u2026
    from almost the very beginning. Gutenberg may have been involved with some Catholic
    reformists, who were interested in having definitive versions of scripture to
    help quell dissent and variety of interpretation. Gutenberg's texturas and Mainz
    texturas in general would become associated with Catholic printing in Germany
    during the Renaissance, while Fraktur would become associated with the Lutherans.\r\n\r\nBut
    before Fraktur became associated by the Lutherans, it was commissioned by the
    German Emperor in Nuremberg, who may have desired forms like those from his mother's
    Burgundian family in Belgium.\r\n\r\nDuring and after the French Revolution, which
    divided Germany and caused all sorts of political change there (as I'm sure you
    know), the Serif vs. Fraktur debate arose, probably for the first time. And the
    Fraktu- backers were German nationalists; German nationalists were later able
    to force a political and cultural break with Austria (1848\u20131870), and then
    seized power and created the Second Empire. Yet the Second Empire was not really
    so big on Fraktur as one might think\u2026 the Reichstag debated ditching it almost
    altogether on more than one occasion.\r\n\r\nThat takes me to the 20th Century\u2026
    which has even more to write about! Too much for one post here.\r\n\r\nI'd bring
    them to the Frankfurt area (but I'm very biased). This was always a big center
    of German printing and type. First Gutenberg, then a myriad of foundries, almost
    all which disappeared or moved during by the late 20th century. Linotype is here
    now, too. There are several schools in the area, all of which are excellent for
    type, and two great museums, the Gutenberg Museum and the Klingspor Museum.\r\n\r\nIf
    I were you, I'd take them to London first. There is great type stuff there (and
    maybe you could visit the University of Reading, too\u2026 that might have the
    best collection in the world\u2026 certainly the most accessible). Then come here.
    I'd be happy to lend you any hand I could. There are lots of other type types
    in the area as well, Germans and internationals\u2026"
  created: '2006-03-14 19:03:49'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Craig, William, Hrant, Dan--\r\n\r\nThanks for all the info right out of
    the gate! I rather suspected that if I was partial to Germany as a destination,
    the topic of the course might sort itself down to the story of blackletter (script
    and type both), and I suspected that Frankfurt (especially) or Berlin would present
    themselves as obvious choices of cities.\r\n\r\nI don't think London or Israel
    would be options I could pair with any German city (or one not close to the North
    Sea coast, in London's case), because of the travel time; these are for-credit
    courses and it might be hard to sell a proposal that has interruptions of much
    length in the calendar. (Moreover, stupidly, Israel would be a hard sell for too
    many parents.)\r\n\r\nOne of the advantages to the exploration of type and nationalism
    would be that it would allow me to tap into issues of globalization--in a different
    way. In many of these courses, faculty take students to cities like Singapore
    or London to talk about how people from very different backgrounds and cultures,
    with diverging and conflicting interests, negotiate a common life (or don't, as
    the case many be). But here might be a chance to see the history of <em>resistance</em>
    to cultural and national diversity, fought on the battleground of what constitutes
    a proper form of type/writing, in the name of asserting, even creating, a national
    identity.\r\n\r\nOkay, enough of my own musing for now. Keep the ideas coming,
    please, folks. This could be a good idea after all.\r\n\r\nThanks for the pointer,
    William. And thanks, Dan, for the offer--that's precisely the sort of friendly
    help I am shamelessly hoping to elicit."
  created: '2006-03-14 19:42:04'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: What about Rome? The Romans certainly used letterforms for stately and propaganda
    purposes. Rome is beautiful, and has letters everywhere, and not just from one
    period, but from all of them.
  created: '2006-03-14 19:46:01'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>a detour to Israel during such a blackletter tour would\r\nbe da bomb.</em>\r\n\r\nWell,
    as Hrant knows, I think that the history of blackletetr in politics is much too
    big to only be viewed through the WWII prism, but he is certainly right in that
    people associate blackletter with enemies of Israel. In fact, in Germany, blackletter
    is associated right now with heavy metal (which is, sadly, almost an exclusively
    radical right-wing phenomenon here) more than anything else. I personally believe
    that the way to get past this was to point out how well blackletter was used <strong>before</strong>
    the N.S. period, and try to recapture its experimental nature that way.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I run into trouble here, too\u2026 as I mentioned above, some of blackletter's
    biggest fans from 1792\u20131932 were stark Nationalists\u2026 even though there
    is a difference between German Nationalists and German National Socialists (Nazis),
    many see this difference as purely academic :(\r\n\r\nCome to think of it (although
    you are right to assume it would never happen) going to Isreal would be a great
    way to take about the politics of script\u2026 certainly from the \"Modern Hebrew\"
    angle, if not anything else."
  created: '2006-03-14 19:51:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You might also visit Greece and Russia.  The whole St. Cyrill thing seems
    like a good polital/religious letterform story.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-14 20:19:08'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "\u2026not to mention Peter the Great and his Dutch connection!"
  created: '2006-03-14 20:20:08'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: Peter the Great and the Dutch? Enlighten me--I missed that one entirely.
  created: '2006-03-14 20:32:20'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Peter the Great reformed the Cyrillic alphabet, making it more or less what
    it is today, more or less 300 years ago. He brought Dutch punchcutters to Russia,
    and they made his Civil Type. That's what I meant.\r\n\r\nI believe that the Russian
    Orthodox Church uses the alphabet in its pre-1700 form today."
  created: '2006-03-14 20:35:15'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "You could also go to East Asia. In the 1950s, the People's Republic of China
    reformed written Chinese, creating what they call Simplified Chinese (the characters
    have less strokes). Taiwan still uses Traditional Chinese characters.\r\n\r\nJapan
    reformed Japanese somewhat, after WWII. I think that now when Japanese is written
    horizontally, the text runs from left to right, like Latin (allowing for Romaji\u2014the
    Roman alphabet\u2014to mix in better?). Vertically, Japanese columns are still
    ordered from right to left.\r\n\r\nA Korean emperor developed the Korean writing
    system independently, I think around 1400. I don't think that this was officially
    adopted throughout Korea until after 1945 though. The Koreans were also printing
    with movable metal type before Gutenberg. There is a lot about type to be learned
    there, I bet."
  created: '2006-03-14 20:42:15'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: Thanks, Dan. I remembered the Cyrillic reform part, but never knew (though
    I guess it doesn't surprise me) that PTG recruited the Dutch to help.
  created: '2006-03-14 20:57:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: This is starting to sound like more than a study abroad program. Where can
    I sign up?? ;^D
  created: '2006-03-14 22:21:36'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: 'You might focus on type that was designed in a self-consciously "political"
    way. Sure, every human artifact can be seen in a political light. But I''m thinking
    that, if you need to focus and find a practical destination for a study-abroad
    program, Germany and the Netherlands are probably the places to go. Call it "From
    Blackletter to Bauhaus: Political Typography in Europe." Or something like that.
    Bauhaus design was the first example I really "got" as an explicitly political
    move in type-- strip it back to zero, strip out all the remnants of bourgeois
    life, the huge cultural disaster that led us to WW I, etc. Typography is only
    a part of that, I know, but it really stuck.'
  created: '2006-03-14 22:26:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Oh, another highly interesting case of politicized type is Gaelic, which
    has been the object of tugs-of-war in various ways among numerous Irish and English
    political movements for a century or three. I have a good friend (Matha Standun)
    who's a specialist in that, and I'm sure he would help you out. One advantage
    over Germany (unless your students are the adventurous type) is that there would
    be no language barrier.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-14 22:34:14'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Typography was actually a <em>very</em> small part of the Bauhaus movement.
    Most typefaces associated with the Bauhaus actually had nothing to do with it,
    i.e., Futura (Paul Renner taught at a <em>competitor</em> design school to the
    Bauhaus, in Munich). Even Jan Tschichold who respected the Bauhaus' work and may
    have even applied for a position there cannot be lumped in the same boat (he taught
    at Renner's school in Munich for a while, for instance\u2026 just a reminder that
    Germany did not have a single typographic center, then or now ;-)  )\r\n\r\nThe
    Schools in Stuttgart and Offenbach had much more vibrant and exciting typographic
    experiments and type/calligraphy instructors than the Bauhaus did, but they were
    a bit more \"conservative.\" In any event, they didn't call for a complete break
    with the past, although I'm sure they saw themselves just as superior to it. \r\n\r\n(They
    were also politically much better off in the 1930s, but that is no reason to condemn
    them outright. It is so easy to get black&white with 1930s Germany. Not everything
    fits so easily into either the good or bad camp, though\u2026 that's exactly what
    makes it so disconcerting. One must ask oneself, \"where would I have fit in.
    what risks, exactly, would I have taken?\" History is always 20/20, but those
    who really go about a relationship with the past should not put themselves above
    it, and should consider the gravity of what people went through. Certainly, those
    who collaborated deserve our disrespect, but like all walks of life, there were
    shades of grey in the German design community. Where does one draw the line?)\r\n\r\nMaybe
    instead of \"From X to Y\" you could call it something like \"There and back again.\"
    I don't believe that the history of type design is linear, sorry :("
  children:
  - author:
      name: jlg4104
      picture: 111297
    body: "Thanks for the clarification, Dan. For what it's worth, I was just suggesting
      something catchy-sounding. I wasn't making any claims about historiography,
      so much as just trying to identify a particular area of interest.\r\n\r\nThe
      official Bauhaus \"school\" may not have done as much typography as other things,
      but certainly the general anti-bourgeoius, strip-it-back-to-the-elements approach
      covered a large constellation of artistic activities, including those of that
      group. I don't think you can make such a broad claim against the link just because
      the link is subtle. Consider <a href=\"http://www.bauhaus.de/english/bauhaus1919/werkstaetten/werkstaetten_typographie.htm\">this
      online archive</a>. Type is certainly not irrelevant there.\r\n\r\nEDIT: In
      fact, the more I revisit the issue, the more it looks like typography was VERY
      important in the Bauhaus. Indeed, the very idea of a \"rational system\" to
      define an alphabet, based on the \"bare essentials\" necessary, strikes me as
      very much a part of the whole early 20th-c modernist/anti-bourgeois/anti-victorian
      project, and was very much woven through the whole Bauhaus movement.\r\n"
    created: '2006-03-15 19:07:52'
  created: '2006-03-14 22:38:18'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Hmm . . . the idea of E Asia is enticing, but I have no languages from that
    area of the world, no contacts, and little of my own understanding of the history
    and political culture of places like China, Korea, Japan. The story of Korean
    script, or the politics (and history, etc.) behind the several systems the Japanese
    use to write, to mention two, are fascinating, but I don't know what I'd bring
    to that mix: I'd be relying on experts there both for the typo(etc.)graphy and
    the politics and history.\r\n\r\nGreece and Russia are more reasonable ideas,
    though the language barrier there would be an issue, too, so I wonder whether
    Germany and the story of blackletter might not be the best idea after all. Maybe
    London/the University of Reading, or another city in Europe (like Rome, say),
    would be a possible addition. In that case, though, I'd probably have to present
    a second location as a way to tell a contrasting or complementary story about
    type/writing and politics. (Not that visiting good museums and meeting interesting
    people shouldn't be reason enough in themselves to visit someplace, but remember
    what I'm dealing with here.)\r\n\r\nFolks, this process is very helpful to me.
    Other reactions or ideas?"
  created: '2006-03-14 22:40:11'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Germany gave birth to printing and blackletter type. Shortly thereafter,
    Venice and other Italian cities gave birth to the Humanist typefaces that we are
    still familiar with. And many of those first printers even came from Mainz\u2014some
    directly from Gutenberg's workshop! (Mainz had a sort of civil war in the early
    1460s, and artisans who could left the city for better conditions).\r\n\r\nSo,
    going to Germany and Italy would make great historic sense. Between Berlin, Frankfurt,
    Venice, and Rome, you can't go wrong!"
  created: '2006-03-14 22:44:40'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Man . . . I take 10 minutes to catch up, and I miss 5 posts.\r\n\r\nTiffany,
    I'm with you. <em>I</em> want to sign up for this class. I like the ring of \"From
    Blackletter to Bauhaus,\" though it wouldn't have to mean a progression or evolution.
    It could also be, \"Blackletter <em>and</em> Bauhaus.\"\r\n\r\nOkay, I've probably
    missed something else, now."
  created: '2006-03-14 22:48:06'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Actually, I could argue that Germany also gave birth to Humanist typefaces.
    :^D
  created: '2006-03-14 22:49:53'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201CBlackletter and Bauhaus\u201D\r\n\r\nHey, Dan should start a bed
    & breakfast by\r\nthat name for typophiles visiting germany.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-15 19:31:31'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well, typography may have been important there (although I just don't believe
    that\u2026), but if it was important, it was still much less important than anything
    else. The Bauhaus was founded by an architect. It had three directors, all architects.
    How much typography do you find in its general curriculum? Very little. Most contemporary
    schools today place more time and value on it than the Bauhaus did.\r\n\r\nI don't
    mean to discount the awesomeness of the type and lettering work that was done
    there. It is inspirational and will probably remain so forever. But the focus
    of the Bauhaus was on total art, and architecture (which the guys in charge thought
    was total art anyway). And architecture was the supreme discipline to which one
    could aspire. You see, I disagree on that last point there ;-)"
  created: '2006-03-15 20:16:17'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Joost Schmidt's work at the Bauhaus was great, I'm not denying that. And
    Bayer's Universal Alphabet continues to inspire (just look at FontShop's newest
    free font for the Soccer World Cup this summer\u2026). But these were rather isolated
    experiments. Of coursed the Bauhaus used type in its design and advertising\u2026
    typography is an essential part of graphic design. But they were more concerned
    with other things. Look at any Bauhaus book (especially the hundreds of retrospectives
    available in German\u2026) and you'll find more teapots than posters or alphabets.
    The Bauhaus Archiv's website has a typography section, and I've been to both its
    physical museum and the current museum and school in the historic buildings in
    Dessau. Great stuff. But typography was a minor league pastime there.\r\n\r\nIn
    foreign countries, the Bauhaus has a different vision from what it really might
    have been. Coming from the US to Germany, I expected it to be something else,
    sort of like the all-permeating religion it is for so many American designers.
    But, as I mentioned, the history of German design has so many interesting intertwining
    threads. And the 1920s have at least three that are all more typographically relevant\u2014both
    to their time and today\u2014than the Bauhaus' typography.\r\n\r\nThat's my point,
    and I'm sticking to it!"
  created: '2006-03-15 20:25:49'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Hey, Dan should start a bed & breakfast by\r\nthat name for typophiles
    visiting germany.</em>\r\n\r\nDude, that would totally rock. I would eat that
    up. I do have a spare bed in my apartment\u2026"
  created: '2006-03-15 20:27:38'
- author:
    name: kristin
    picture: 110305
  body: "What about Alcuin, Charlemagne and the invention of lower case? Anyone know
    if that was political? Could you make it so in order to justify :) a trip to France?\r\n\r\nAnother
    avenue you might explore (stop me before I pun again!) would be \"social design\"
    ideas. John Emerson has a blog that explores this issue and has a categeory devoted
    to type:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.backspace.com/notes/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-15 20:46:51'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "I hear you, Dan. And you're a lucky man to have been to those places. Closest
    I've been is an exhibit on Dutch architecture in Amsterdam.\r\n\r\nAnyway, I think
    the only real difference here probably is one of historiography, sorta. On the
    one hand, we can focus on the specifics of who did what, and when and where. Obviously
    that's the bedrock of any decent historical perspective. Although, I'm more inclined
    first to notice formal and conceptual parallels and similarities, which clearly
    can be reconstructed with varying degrees of caveats about who did what, and where
    and when. I'm not saying I like to fool around with lies and half-truths; rather,
    I'm just trying to make sense of what can be re-interpreted through our current
    lenses in ways that are useful without being totally groundless or fallacious.\r\n\r\nIt's
    like a question of whether a particular sans-serif face is \"Bauhaus\" or not.
    Well, from one perspective, if it wasn't designed by Walter Gropius or others
    who actually sat and walked and talked and smoked in hallways and parlors together,
    then I guess the answer is a flat and categorical, \"No.\" But if you edge over
    a little into the formalist/conceptual realm, and you're looking for evidence
    of a particular \"aesthetic\" (I know, some probably won't like that term), you
    certainly would be able to see it. \r\n\r\nIn any event, I don't want to belabor
    this Bauhaus stuff. It keeps making me think of that awful band that I once thought
    was the best EVER. Better even than the Doors!\r\n\r\n- Jay"
  created: '2006-03-15 21:25:04'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Yes of course, I can agree with that. I just wish that we had a better term
    than Bauhaus for all this \"Bauhaus\" stuff. That way, the Bauhaus stuff and the
    not Bauhaus stuff might live side by side happily in some sort of \xFCber-category."
  created: '2006-03-15 21:37:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bauhaus/destijl/constructivist stuff?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-16 15:45:53'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Hey, everyone:\r\n\r\nThis has been so much more response than I had reason
    to hope for. Thanks to all of you, and please continue to chime in with ideas
    and use the thread for related debates--it's all great material.\r\n\r\nI have
    to digest this stuff and my own ruminations into a cogent proposal for the folks
    at our study abroad office. Fortunately, these proposals are considered works
    in progress, especially when they're for new courses, so I have lots of time to
    amend or revise. So, like I said: I'm still interested in anything you all have
    to offer.\r\n\r\nI will say it's looking like Dan's idea about Frankfurt and its
    typographic wiles and charms will be the center of the proposal. Its resources
    and its central location (in case there are other stops or trips involved) make
    it ideal. (Dan, can I contact you off-list?)\r\n\r\nI'll post the proposal when
    it's done for further comment, if anyone's interested. Thanks again, everyone.\r\n\r\nPlease
    . . . as you were."
  created: '2006-03-16 17:07:38'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Maurice, you can contact me anytime at either <strong>type.nerd</strong>
    (that-funny-monkey) <strong>gmail.com</strong> or <strong>dreynolds</strong> (that-funny-monkey)
    <strong>linotype.com</strong>.\r\n\r\nBTW, since everyone loves the Bauhaus, and
    it is great for students (I went there twice when I was one), its locations are
    conveniently accessible from Frankfurt, which is Germany's transit hub. By train,
    Weimar is about two or three hours away, and Dessau and Berlin are each about
    four. More or less, you can travel through them all in one shot (Frankfurt\u2013Weimar\u2013Dessau\u2013Berlin),
    although not in a single day if one wanted to see anything at all!\r\n\r\nFor
    instance, one could travel to Weimer and spend a night there, then go to Dessau
    the next day for a few hours, then spend the second night in Berlin, see Berlin
    on the third day, then come back Frankfurt on a fast train, etc. Bed-n-Breakfast
    typophile guests take note ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-16 18:44:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> since everyone loves the Bauhaus\r\n\r\nPardon?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-16 18:47:57'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well, Hrant, you are the one who posted this:\r\n\r\n<em>\r\n> \u201CBlackletter
    and Bauhaus\u201D\r\n\r\nHey, Dan should start a bed & breakfast by\r\nthat name
    for typophiles visiting germany.\r\n\r\nhhp</em>\r\n\r\n\r\nIt seems clear from
    this discussion that almost everyone is recommending that the Bauhaus or Bauhaus-ness
    be a component of the course. Even though I think that there are so many other
    things in Germany and the world which illustrate Politics & Type better, I know
    how design students think. They'll see the word \"Bauhaus\" in the title and think
    \"cool! sign me up!\"\r\n\r\nBesides, unlike many other ideological centers\u2014and
    the Bauhaus was an ideological center, just not the only one or one all too ideological
    about type ;-)   \u2014the Bauhaus exists as an actual building that you can still
    visit. Actually, it still exists as two actual buildings, plus an extra museum
    in Berlin. And the buildings in Dessau and Weimar are still used for their original
    purposes\u2014design schools!\r\n\r\nI know that not everyone loves the Bauhaus.
    But I suspect that deep down in your skeptical heart, even though you are not
    a modernist, you love the Bauhaus, too. Weren't they modern before the modernists
    were modern ;-P"
  created: '2006-03-16 18:55:54'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Plus, Hrant, the Bauh\xE4usler were actually willing to take on alphabet
    and script reform."
  created: '2006-03-16 18:58:18'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Last point, I promise.\r\n\r\nRegarding typographic ideologies at the Bauhaus,
    they did have a few popular ones. Script reform, for instance. Many of them just
    wrote in lowercase, which is actually a <em>stand</em> when you think about the
    German language and its rules.\r\n\r\nFor a while, the Bauhaus even used an official
    letterhead from Herbert Bayer that had a <strong>footnote</strong> on it! A footnote
    on a piece of stationary! It said something to the effect of, \"we're just using
    lowercase letters\u2026 why? because you can't differentiate between upper- and
    lowercase when you're speaking\u2026 so why do so in print?\""
  created: '2006-03-16 19:01:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Weren\u2019t they modern before the modernists were modern\r\n\r\nThe Ancient
    Romans were Modern first.\r\n\r\n> the Bauh\xE4usler were actually willing to
    take on alphabet and script reform.\r\n\r\nEven though the actual ideas and motivations
    behind their reform\r\nefforts were childlike in their ignorance, I admit you
    do have a point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-16 19:17:59'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "You could call your B&B \"Fraktur and Frutiger,\" too, I suppose. And offer
    a special \"Frutiger Fruit Plate.\" With Fraktured Fruit Forks.\r\n\r\nI think
    we need to make a distinction between pre-moveable type and post-moveable type,
    at least in the West. The \"Ancient Romans\" certainly were not modern in anything
    but relative terms. At that rate, you might say that any number of ancient cultures
    were \"modern\" in that their inscriptions were \"sans serif.\" Right?\r\n\r\nWhat
    strikes me about sans-serif type of any kind, and especially the most simple,
    minimalist kind such as the hyper-\"rationale\" systems of early Modernism (ca.
    1910-1930), is that in the world of moveable type ca. 1500 c.e., all these goldsmiths
    and jewelers didn't go, \"Wait a SECOND. WHY are we imitating hand-drawn script
    and torturing ourselves so much here? I mean, if we stripped things down to the
    basics here, we could make most letters with a single punch and a couple minutes
    of cutting. Why are we making our lives so difficult?\"\r\n\r\nTo me, that's a
    clear example of how historical and cultural context affects the thinking of people
    down to the very basic elements of what is considered possible. I would say that
    any clean-lined, minimalist type looks \"modern\" precisely because it took over
    400 years for people to figure out that they DIDN'T have to imitate monastery
    script, nor Roman monument carvings.\r\n\r\nPlus, there's a chicken-n-egg question
    here. Which came first, the minimalist \"inclination\" or the new artifacts that
    seemed to embody such an inclination? Hard to say-- and I'm not sure we need to
    answer it.\r\n\r\n- J"
  created: '2006-03-16 20:46:40'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: But the ancient Romans were not striving for modernity, in fact, they were
    striving for the opposite, historical authenticity.
  children:
  - author:
      name: BradB
      picture: 111285
    body: "\"But the ancient Romans were not striving for modernity, in fact, they
      were striving for the opposite, historical authenticity.\"\r\n\r\nThe Romans
      pretty much copied everything Greek. I'm no historian, but wasn't the common
      language Greek until about the time of the fall of the Roman Empire, around
      which time Latin became the common language?"
    created: '2006-03-16 21:07:24'
  created: '2006-03-16 20:57:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me the Ancient Romans were the first to head towards Modernism, even if
    they didn't get nearly as far as us. Contrast the Roman absolutism with the Ancient
    Greek pragmatism. There was a break there, and it was the seed of Modernism. This
    seed was later to be nurtured by movements like the (so-called) Enlightenment,
    the Industrial Revolution, etc.\r\n\r\nJay, there are entire worlds besides constructivism
    and chirography. Just because (I agree) it's not necessary (in fact it's usually
    bad) to imitate handwriting in type doesn't mean building letters from kiddie
    blocks is better.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-16 21:11:13'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think Hrant was referring to when the ancient Romans -- the Humanists --
    decided to use the Latin alphabet to more accurately portray the text of the philosophers.\r\n\r\nI
    don't think the Romans did copy the Greeks, in regards to the written/printed
    word at least. "
  created: '2006-03-16 21:11:17'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Hmm. Absolutism. I hadn't thought of that. Interesting idea.
  created: '2006-03-16 21:12:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Greek/Roman thing went both ways. Faced with obviously superior cultural
    sophistication in the beginning, the Romans did copy much of what they saw on
    the other side of the Adriatic. But then gradually, naturally, sort of like reverse-osmosis,
    the greater build-up of culture on the Roman side (coupled with the empoverishment
    of it due to politcal subservience on the Greek side) caused the Greeks to become
    increasingly more Roman. Here's an example comparing a 2nd century BC to an early
    2nd century AD Greek inscription (the third image):\r\n\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_rome3.html\r\n\r\nThe
    one on the left is from a book, the other is from a photo I took at Delphi (in
    a Summer downpoor, an event the locals assured us happens once in a decade, supposedly)
    in 1995, not knowing what it signified, what it would signify to me today! And
    it's not visible in that detail, but guess what name you can find on the inscription
    itself: TRAIAN!\r\n\r\nAnd look at us today, with the Greek-on-the-street oblivious\r\nto
    the Latinized junk littering his cultural landscape.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-16 21:24:07'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "Superior cultural sophistication-- you mean like when Julius Caesar and his
    cronies made important political distinctions based on the divine signs contained
    in animal entrails? Ahem...\r\n\r\nAs for \"Contrast the Roman absolutism with
    the Ancient Greek pragmatism.,\" that's an oversimplification if I ever saw one.
    Where'd that come from? Certainly not any cultural history I've ever seen, or
    perhaps not anything published after the mid-20th c, when such broad-brush categorization
    of our \"heritage\" cultures finally started to show their age. \r\n\r\nDepends
    what you read I guess. Within the realm of culture, I'd mix it up-- both had absolutist
    strains and both had pragmatic strains. Caesar was nothing if not pragmatic (Machiavellian,
    opportunistic, etc.) yet also sought to be dictator (absolutism?). \r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand... I do see your point, hrant, in terms of a contrast between maybe
    \"rougher\" type and \"sharper\" type. And I do like your photo essay. \r\n\r\n\r\n-
    Jay\r\n\r\nNOTE: I edited the above after hrant posted the note below. As for
    that, I have no rose-colored glasses. I don't think either the ancient Greeks
    or the ancient Romans are worth comparing except on specific, formalistic issues.
    Which had \"better\" type is just a silly question, to me, I guess."
  created: '2006-03-16 21:49:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Depends what you read I guess.\r\n\r\nOr how rosy you like to feel about
    your heritage.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-16 22:03:13'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "The ancient history here is not top quality.\r\n\r\n<cite>The Romans pretty
    much copied everything Greek. I\u2019m no historian, but wasn\u2019t the common
    language Greek until about the time of the fall of the Roman Empire, around which
    time Latin became the common language?</cite>\r\nExactly the opposite is true.
    Latin was the language of the empire until the creation of the Roman Empire in
    the East, which we call Byzantine. The movement of the political centre eastwards
    started with Diocletian, who after two centuries of Roman decline split the command
    structure, appointing a second Augustus and two Caesars; it continued with the
    building of Constantinople (called 'Nova Roma') by Constantine, who forced the
    Eastern cult of Christianity onto his empire, but who himself spoke hardly any
    Greek. Soon, though, Byzantines forgot their Latin, calling their emperor Basileus
    kai Isapostolos, king and equal of the apostles, in a thoroughly Persian variety
    of quasi-divine chiefdom, than which nothing could by less Modernist. In the West
    Latin became first a variety of barbarian peoples' creoles and then, in very much
    post-Classical form, a lingua franca for scholarship. Ciceronian Latin was only
    resurrected in the Renaissance, which development one might fairly call Modernist
    in the expansive Hrantian sense.\r\n\r\nThe Roman alphabet of capitals was based
    on the Etruscan, not directly on the Greek. The Roman cursive - quite different
    from the monumental capitals - gave rise to various forms of uncial, which gave
    rise eventually to Carolingian miniscule, which became the humanists' lowercase.
    \r\n\r\n<cite>I think Hrant was referring to when the ancient Romans \u2014 the
    Humanists \u2014 decided to use the Latin alphabet to more accurately portray
    the text of the philosophers.</cite> \r\nThe humanists were Italians of the Renaissance,
    not ancient Romans. They did indeed accept the need to represent, as Erasmus said,
    Latin words by Latin elements, but they didn't realise that the MSS they were
    copying were Carolingian miniscule. [Of course you know that perfectly well Tiffany.]\r\n\r\nThe
    idea that Romans were Modernist and absolutist, the Greeks pragmatists, is just
    nonsense. Compare Plato's Republic with Horace, for instance, and you'll find
    that if anything the opposite was true - though really this sort of caricature
    gets nowhere, not least because both were culturally very various over time and
    space. If you want real absolutism, look at Sparta. Even in lettering, the Romans
    were perfectly pragmatic, having a number of forms of their alphabet for different
    purposes. Serifs made letters more durable and more beautiful on monumental caps,
    but they weren't used in handwriting. Admittedly they wrote upwards with their
    reed pens, a refusal of concession to their materials which I think demonstrates
    a virtuous desire to slow down and take pains over something important and, of
    course, costly."
  children:
  - author:
      name: BradB
      picture: 111285
    body: "chri1753: <em>The ancient history here is not top quality.</em>\r\n\r\nBradB:
      <em>The Romans pretty much copied everything Greek. I\u2019m no historian, but
      wasn\u2019t the common language Greek until about the time of the fall of the
      Roman Empire, around which time Latin became the common language?</em>\r\n\r\nchri1753:<em>
      Exactly the opposite is true. Latin was the language of the empire until the
      creation of the Roman Empire in the East, which we call Byzantine. ...</em>\r\n\r\nLatin
      may have been the official language of the Roman Empire, but it wasn't the language
      of the common people until the end of the Empire. Koine Greek was. I'm talking
      about the <em>common</em> language here, not the official language.\r\n\r\nAs
      I said, I'm no historian, so pardon the percieved inaccuracy. \r\n\r\nThe New
      Testament was written during the time of the Roman Empire (1st and 2nd  century
      AD), and it was mostly (if not entirely) written in Greek. Sure, the Romans
      who occupied the Holy Lands at the time spoke Latin and Greek, but the people
      who actually lived there spoke Greek in business and Aramaic,at home. I suppose
      it's like now, in some places, in the US you have people who speak English at
      school  or work and Spanish at home. That part of the world was and still is
      multilingual."
    created: '2006-03-17 14:37:59'
  created: '2006-03-16 22:05:26'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "On the Etruscan connection, check out one of my favorite books:\r\n\r\nDavid
    Sacks' <em>Letter Perfect: The Marvelous History of Our Alphabet From A to Z</em>"
  created: '2006-03-16 22:09:01'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "<em>The humanists were Italians of the Renaissance, not ancient Romans. They
    did indeed accept the need to represent, as Erasmus said, Latin words by Latin
    elements, but they didn\u2019t realise that the MSS they were copying were Carolingian
    miniscule.</em>\r\n\r\nGeorge, that's what I was saying. I think you misunderstood
    me. "
  created: '2006-03-16 22:27:47'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Sorry Tiffany! It'd be a pretty odd thing for a historian to be confused on,
    what with the thousand years involved.
  created: '2006-03-16 22:48:24'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: =^D
  created: '2006-03-16 23:01:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> this sort of caricature gets nowhere\r\n\r\nWhat's nonsense is pretending
    they were the same, or that it doesn't matter.\r\n\r\nCompare? Now we're getting
    somewhere. Let's compare the myth of the hero who defeated the three brothers
    by injuring them by different amounts, then running away, so they would catch
    up with him at different times, and he would have a chance to win by fighting
    them one at a time instead of all at once (and he succeeded). To the Greeks that
    was a brilliant idea, to the Romans, dishonorable. The Roman way would have been
    to fight all three at once (and die, no problem). The two cultures are repleat
    with telling \"valorizations\" such as this.\r\n\r\nBut exceptions? And variances?
    Well duh.\r\n\r\n> look at Sparta\r\n\r\nSparta lost.\r\n\r\n> Even in lettering,
    the Romans were perfectly pragmatic\r\n\r\nRelative to who? Maybe the Bauhaus...
    Not relative to the Greeks, whose lettering was much more \"loose\" (and small)
    not least because they inscribed a lot more actual text: content, versus form.
    Greek lettering could even be called \"sloppy\"; as Catich points out a lot of
    times the strokes were single strikes of the chisel (and that's why they were
    more angular)! And take the famed Dipylon vase: is that ugly lettering or what?!
    Roman lettering is absolutist, Greek` pragmatic (that's a bit of Armenian punctuation
    there, sorry :-). And if you look at the example I posted, you can see the increase
    in severity, rigidity. This is exaclty absolutism at play. And OF COURSE I'm generalizing!
    Why? That's how the human brain works guys.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-16 23:09:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Furthermore, it's comforting to see pragmatism alive and well in contemporary
    Greece. Take the drive between Halkidiki to Thessaloniki, and note how many lanes
    the highway has in each direction along most of its distance: one <cite>and a
    half !</cite> And when you drive either a bit fast or a bit slow (something Greeks
    are liable to do) you realize the supreme pragmatic elegance of that solution.
    Can you imagine that in modern-day Ancient Rome, Western Europe?! They would simply
    keel over from the -human- complexity!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-16 23:17:52'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: OK. And I agree on the latinizing of some Greek inscriptions; Greek was originally
    so different partly because it had no baseline or cap-height along which serifs
    would make sense. But for the Romans the severe and rigid style was just one option,
    and one much less commonly chosen than others like rustic caps, which were anything
    but severe. And Sparta won in Greece at least.
  created: '2006-03-16 23:35:29'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "While we're on the subject of history and language, one of my favorite words
    in grad school was \"letteriturizazione,\" or \"literaturization,\" referring
    to the transformation of rhetoric from an oral trade to a written discipline.
    Wonder how typography fits in there...?\r\n\r\nAnother fun word, and getting way
    off topic: \"apocolocyntosis,\" or \"pumpkinification.\" Title of a play by Seneca
    about the aftermath of Claudius' death."
  created: '2006-03-17 15:23:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Greek was originally so different\r\n\r\nWhile I see the Roman as different,
    in effect breaking from the Ancient world.\r\n\r\nAnd you've actually pointed
    out the most clear case of absolutism in the transition between the scripts: Everything
    Must Fit Between The Lines. The tail of the \"Q\"? Vestigal pragmatism; to be
    eventually dispensed with by the descendants of Rome.\r\n\r\n> for the Romans
    the severe and rigid style was just one option\r\n\r\nWhile tellingly the Ancient
    Greeks didn't even have that at all.\r\n\r\n> Sparta won in Greece at least.\r\n\r\nWhat?
    Athens survived Sparta. Sparta was felled by\r\ndisease (some say due to weakened
    genes resulting\r\nfrom inbreeding) if I'm not mistaken.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-17 15:26:47'
- author:
    name: BradB
    picture: 111285
  body: What's all this about absolutism and pragmatism?
  created: '2006-03-17 17:01:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yin/Yang, baby. Display/Text, Deliberation/Immersion,\r\nLegibility/Readability,
    Expression/Servitude, Body/Mind,\r\nIndividual/Society, Fovea/Parafovea, Sans/Serif,
    ...\r\nTwo is everything is two.\r\n\r\nYou asked.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-17 17:10:55'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Kenneth Clarke got a sensational first by learning to automatically contrast
    by threes rather than twos, thus making his exam scripts 50% more complex than
    they would otherwise have been.
  created: '2006-03-17 17:58:19'
- author:
    name: BradB
    picture: 111285
  body: "There are two kinds of people in the world: Those who think there are only
    two kinds of people, and those who know there aren't.\r\n\r\n;-)"
  created: '2006-03-17 18:12:01'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "Update:\r\n\r\nThanks to all your suggestions, I got what I thought was a
    doable proposal in on time. \r\n\r\nThe proposal would take the students to Frankfurt
    for around three weeks, with side trips of one or a couple days to Berlin, Weimar,
    Dessau, and maybe other locations as well. The topic of the course will be the
    history of blackletter and German nationalism as a case study in constructing
    and projecting cultural identity in a multicultural world. \r\n\r\nI want the
    typography to give students a window into the nature of cultural identity and
    nationalist (and eventually totalitarian) movements, how large political questions
    get fought out in venues that people (including direct participants) might not
    immediately identify as \"political,\" and how our ideas about design, technology,
    and standards of clarity and communication are tangled up with political and cultural
    assumptions.\r\n\r\nThe committee reviewing the proposals will announce their
    decisions early next month. In the meantime, I'll be piecing together information
    about locations and resources to start a preliminary itinerary, in case my proposal
    is accepted.\r\n\r\nIn that case, I'll post the final proposal for your criticism
    and ideas. In the meantime, if you're within an easy day's journey of Frankfurt
    (we'd come to you) and would like to speak to these students about what you know:
    about the history of typography, about German nationalism, about any of the specific
    relevant periods of history mentioned in the discussion--or introduce them to
    resources to which you have access, or can put me in touch with such folks--as
    always, I'd appreciate hearing about it, on- or off-list."
  created: '2006-03-20 18:09:15'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: I didn't mention this in my e-mail to you, but depending on when your students
    will be in the area, announce your presence early enough and the [[Typostammtisch]]
    will schedule one of its meetings while you are in town.
  created: '2006-03-20 18:39:03'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "Good luck! I hope it passes. No matter how you slice it, it sounds like a
    great trip and a great opportunity for your students!\r\n\r\n- Jay"
  created: '2006-03-20 20:00:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>50% more complex</em>\r\n\r\nSurely, three times as complex?"
  created: '2006-03-20 22:40:52'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Yes, if you allow for three generations of contrasts made.
  created: '2006-03-21 03:00:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Those who think there are only two kinds of people\r\n\r\nActually, I know
    that I don't know.  :-)\r\nI'm a Gorgias boy deep down.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-21 04:54:59'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: ">so I have to narrow it down pretty severely.\r\n\r\nAssuming that your course
    is tuned to the western hemisphere, I would choose the universal, cyclical and
    individually relevant topics: the struggle against religious monopoly, which you
    know about and can study at the Plantijn-Moretus; the struggle against political
    monopoly, I don't know what's at the Bauhaus, but there is certainly a wealth
    of written material about the Nazis and type; and the struggle against technological
    monopoly, which though considerably less dangerous to type folk than the previous
    two, is current and fresh enough to see wherever the court of the eternal Europe
    vs. Microsoft suit is being tried, and on any windows OS.\r\n\r\nThe interesting
    thing to me about this program is that if you want to move it around the world,
    from W. Europe, to what we call the Middle East, or to the the Far East, you can
    find the same three struggle topics, but the cast changes in the earliest two
    issues, religion and politics, while the third topic is of universal protagonists.
    There are not many books on these topics, but rather you have to find the nuggets
    where they've fallen in more general writings, and connect the dots yourself.
    There is, e.g. a single section in \"Guns, Germs and Steel\" that makes the point
    that a better title would be \"Guns, Germs, Type and Steel\" if he had time.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-21 12:48:56'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "<b>Update</b>\r\nWell, after they waited far too long, I heard today from
    the powers that be that they aren't interested in this course. Bummer. Adding
    further to my displeasure is that in my positon here I don't have the resources
    or the institutional support to follow the idea up on my own.\r\n\r\nThanks to
    everyone who responded to my initial email and request. The discussion led me
    to some pretty good books I hadn't discovered yet, which is one the benefits of
    hanging out on sites like this one. You all were very helpful, and if I have the
    chance to retool the proposal in the future, you may hear from me again.\r\n\r\nWhy
    the rejection? The gist seems to be that the idea for the course was too advanced
    for the student audience, and not \"multicultural\" enough. I did try to argue
    in the proposal that one aspect of multiculturalism is how people try to resist
    it or transcend it, but no go."
  created: '2006-04-20 00:03:38'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "Ah, ya gotta love academe. Yes, I live there, too. The principles are often:\r\n\r\n1.
    Assume the students are idiots, and treat them that way.\r\n\r\n2. Cloak everything
    you do in the language of the latest pseudo-intellectual fad.\r\n\r\nCould be
    you were just given a bogus rationale b/c somebody didn't want the money spent
    that way. Bogus rationales for short-sightedness and small-mindedness are what
    university administrations are all about!"
  created: '2006-04-21 15:09:44'
date: '2006-03-14 13:04:39'
node_type: forum
title: 'Help with a study abroad course: politics and type'

---
