---
author:
  name: freddeuk
  picture: 111360
body: "\r\nTHE CARAVAN PROJECT\r\nRead manifesto on homepage.\r\n\r\n-----------------------------------------\r\nToday
  we launch a brief for typographers\r\nall over the world. The brief is:\r\n\"Communicate
  with an illustrator\".\r\nWe need the best typographers in the\r\nworld to design
  a brief for the best\r\nillustrators in the world. Since the\r\nbrief has to not
  only inform but also\r\ninspire illustrators we will settle \r\nfor nothing less
  than perfect typography.\r\n\r\nMore info about the project:\r\n<a href=\"http://www.thecaravanproject.com\">www.thecaravanproject.com</a>"
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: http://www.no-spec.com
  created: '2006-03-16 06:55:42'
- author:
    name: freddeuk
    picture: 111360
  body: NoCopyright manifesto up on homepage!
  created: '2006-03-16 21:08:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: http://www.no-spec.com
  created: '2006-03-16 22:54:03'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Can you change your avatar size to the proper dimensions, Fred? It's messing
    up the posts you're making.
  created: '2006-03-16 23:07:20'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: David, admit it -- I've had to -- we just don't like it being "irregular"
    compared to our "normal" size. :^D ;^D
  created: '2006-03-16 23:39:48'
- author:
    name: freddeuk
    picture: 111360
  body: "Hahaha! Here we go David. I have now deleted\r\nmy shockingly big and irregular
    avatar. From now\r\non I will have no avatar as a statement of non-design.\r\n\r\nWe
    already have 5 typographers on the brief so keep\r\ncoming! Only the best will
    be selected in the end\r\nand shown on the exhibition in Stockholm."
  created: '2006-03-17 11:18:22'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: <a href="http://www.no-spec.com">http://www.no-spec.com</a>
  created: '2006-03-17 11:38:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "http://www.peerpressuresoicanmakemoremoney.com\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-17 12:13:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: <a href="http://www.tug.org/tc/devfund/grants.html">Phihranthropy.</a>
  created: '2006-03-17 16:36:05'
- author:
    name: freddeuk
    picture: 111360
  body: hrant->What u mean by that?
  created: '2006-03-21 17:40:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Different things work for different people. Sure, sometimes people do spec
    work out of weakness, but not always. Pretending it's Evil and it should be verboten
    is a good tactic if you're an established professional in an affluent society
    who is mostly interested in making more money (by trying to discourage spec work
    on the part of others). To be fair though, some people discourage spec work because
    they -incorrectly- assume it's pure bad for everybody. Humans aren't so simple.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-21 17:48:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>making more money</em>\r\n\r\nWell yes, that's one way to distinguish
    professionals from amateurs.\r\n\r\nOf course there is self interest involved,
    but it's cynical to assume it's the only motivation; as you say, humans aren't
    so simple. The people who organize their professions are volunteers whose bottom
    line would have been much better if they hadn't spent so much time volunteering.
    But they do it to raise the status of the profession in general, and part of that
    is increasing the value of that kind of work in the marketplace, for everyone
    who does it, not just the professional elite who made the grade and pay their
    dues. By having a code of ethics that prohibits members from doing spec work,
    professsional organizations may in fact hamper members from getting work that
    goes to those prepared to compete with spec.\r\n\r\nIf professions don't organize,
    they will be populated by contract workers without benefits -- Bush's \"entrepreneurs\"
    -- who will be exploited by a capitalist marketplace dominated by powerful corporations.
    Graphic design freelancers are such entrepreneurs.\r\n\r\nI'm surprised you would
    favour capitalism over the worker, Hrant. "
  created: '2006-03-21 21:29:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Of course there is self interest involved\r\n\r\nWhich is totally fine.
    The problem is hiding that fact, for example by\r\nmaking distracting statements
    like \"does a disservice to the client\".\r\nAs if.\r\n\r\nAnd I never said it's
    the only motivation. It's just that there's\r\nonly so much one can say in a domain
    name, even a fake one!  :-)\r\n\r\n> By having a code of ethics that prohibits
    members from doing spec work ...\r\n\r\n... a professional organization helps
    out its top-tier members.  :-/\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m surprised you would favour capitalism
    over the worker\r\n\r\nYes, I'm sure that's what I'm doing.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-21 21:37:30'
- author:
    name: privateortheris
    picture: 111258
  body: It has to be http://www.no-spec.com - Chris Mitch
  created: '2006-03-21 21:52:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>As if.</em>\r\n\r\nNot so. If a client will only entertain spec work,
    it is extremely likely to get second-rate submissions.  "
  created: '2006-03-22 00:12:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's not what I meant.\r\n\r\nBut since you brought that up: again, why
    so absolute? A client could try its luck with spec work, and then go \"pay-first\"
    if needed. Ethical? Maybe not. But this does not make it OK for a designer to
    be phoney and manipulative, especially not when it comes to his peers; except
    I guess if he thinks he has no peers.\r\n\r\nWhose side am I on? I guess mostly
    the highly talented designer who\r\ndoesn't have the luxuries of time and opportunity
    that most of us do.\r\nSorry, but I'm not at all interested in making the rich
    richer and the\r\nentrenched more entrenched.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 00:17:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>why so absolute?</em>\r\n\r\nIf an organization has a code of ethics,
    the members should abide by it. \r\nBut it's not like professional organizations
    want to outlaw the behaviour for non-members.\r\nThey will point out how it's
    in the interests of design-buyers to avoid commissioning spec work, because they
    truly believe that's better for design in general, as well as for professionals.\r\n\r\nI'm
    on the side of not seing people exploited, irrespective of talent.\r\nI'm suspicious
    of \"public good\" projects that ask for volunteer work, such as preparing briefs
    for illustrators, with pefect typography, because the person asking usually has
    some kind of grant paying them for their work.\r\n\r\nI checked out this Caravan
    Project web site, and there's nothing about \"who we are\", which sets off the
    bullshit detector alarm bells. Betcha Big Oil ain't paying to tow the caravan
    from A to B. Also, I think copyright is a good way to protect intellectual property,
    so creatives don't end up working for nothing -- so I ain't got no kind words
    for the we-want-your-best-for-nothing \"no copyright\" crew.\r\n\r\nI don't enter
    competitions these days, because, especially in type design, it's a lot of work
    and expense preparing specimens, and those who organize the competitions (and
    print the literature and awards books) get paid for their work; the winners get
    publicity, funded by the losers. "
  created: '2006-03-22 03:59:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they truly believe that\u2019s better for design in general\r\n\r\nI'm
    not buying.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t enter competitions these days, because\r\n\r\nAgain,
    no sale.\r\nI think you have \"better\" reasons.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 04:26:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Also:\r\n> the winners get publicity, funded by the losers.\r\n\r\nYes, advertising
    is much fairer: all the qualification you need is being rich.\r\nAnd nevermind
    that many competitions are/have_been free.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 08:42:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I\u2019m not buying.</em>\r\n\r\nWell Hrant, your reasons for doing \"volunteer\"
    work, if you do any, may be self serving, but don't judge others by your own motives.\r\n\r\n<em>I
    think you have \u201Cbetter\u201D reasons.</em>\r\n\r\nTrue, I rarely won anything
    when I did enter competitions, and usually didn't like the stuff that did win!
    There are a lot of people in the same boat.\r\n\r\n<em>Yes, advertising is much
    fairer: all the qualification you need is being rich.</em>\r\n\r\nAt least it's
    not gambling.\r\nPay the cost of high-res output and shipping, plus entry fees,
    and don't make the cut -- total write-off. Do that a few times and it adds up.
    \r\nParticipate in Indie Fonts: value for money.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 18:40:56'
- author:
    name: freddeuk
    picture: 111360
  body: "Nick Shinn-->\r\nThe only thing we can tell you\r\nis the truth. TCP is a
    non-profit\r\nproject. Your view of volunteerwork\r\nis very dark and I think
    its sad since\r\nprobably many designers agree with you\r\nafter failed specworks
    and such.\r\n\r\nWho we are? We are three graphic designers\r\nfrom Sweden. We
    are all freelancers. What more\r\ninfo do you want about us? Do you want us to\r\nput
    pictures of ourselfs on the page? Then we\r\nwould def be accused of voyerism
    and we don't\r\nwant that since we dont want individual attention.\r\n\r\nWe will
    not pay anyone for doing design\r\nthat we view on our webpage or show at\r\nan
    exhibition BUT we want TCP to be an\r\nonline and rolling gallery that shows and\r\nbring
    together all parts of the designculture.\r\n\r\nWe will not sell other peoples
    work and\r\nwe will not take any profit from other\r\npeoples work. We think galleries,
    be it\r\nonline or rolling, should never charge\r\ndesigners or people for using
    it.\r\n\r\nTCP might get attention due to other peoples\r\nwork but isnt that
    a good thing? To get more\r\npeople involved in ethical and moral issues\r\nsurrounding
    our culture and design today.\r\n\r\nTCP is a rolling gallery free for anyone\r\nto
    use or view. It is supposed to bring\r\nart, design & culture together and back\r\nto
    the people, not manipulate or fool\r\ndesigners to do free work.\r\n\r\nWe can
    only be honest about this and it's\r\nup to you to believe in our ideas or not.\r\nWe
    just hope that if you dont want or dont\r\nhave time to get involved just visit
    the\r\nwebsite now and then to see how the project\r\non bringing culture together
    is going and maybe\r\nyou will see that it's for the good of the\r\ndesigners
    and the people and not for commercial\r\nmatters.\r\n\r\nNp-copyright logo was
    created since we think\r\neverything in our culture today is appropriations\r\nand
    interpretentions from other peoples work.\r\nWe agree with your view that the
    copyright symbol\r\nis good in its way of protecting creatives but we\r\nalso
    think that those who only copy other peoples\r\ndesign and call it theirs isnt
    real designers and\r\nprobably won't gain from it in the end."
  created: '2006-03-22 18:44:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> At least it\u2019s not gambling.\r\n\r\nAnd I don't gamble.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIf
    you're really the helpful kind of person,\r\ntry doing it right here, like in
    the crits.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 19:08:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Fred, I apologize for doubting your motives.\r\nAnarcho-syndicalism, go for
    it.\r\n\r\nMy dark view of volunteer work is based on a lot of experience with
    non-profit groups -- so often the money goes to bureaucrats, and the interests
    of the organization become compromised by those of the sponsor, in order to keep
    the organization running. Meanwhile, volunteers are used to do the grunt work.
    The worst-case scenario is when a non-profit activist group that's been around
    a while needs to fund a project, but can't pay themselves for the work, however,
    others may be hired to work on the project. And of course tradesmen, services
    and materials are also paid for.\r\n\r\n<em>Do you want us to put pictures of
    ourselfs on the page?</em>\r\n\r\nMaybe, but I think as designers you should be
    able to find some way to discreetly provide reassuring background information
    and context.\r\n\r\n<em>We can only be honest about this and it\u2019s up to you
    to believe in our ideas or not.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's naive. You really can't expect
    people to take anything on trust. How is a potential contributor to know whether
    you intend to publish a book reproducing the typographic briefs, or the illustrations?
    Good intentions are not enough, people's attitudes can change. What if one of
    your partners has a change of heart and decides to make some money off the TCP
    material? \r\n\r\n<em> the best typographers ... natural selection</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    can you mix elitism with \"art for all?\""
  created: '2006-03-22 19:19:43'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>try doing it right here</em>\r\n\r\nI don't need you to tell me what
    kind of volunteer work I should be doing."
  created: '2006-03-22 19:21:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I apologize\r\n\r\nYou see? That wasn't so hard. Now, Phase II: try doing
    that with\r\nsomebody who has openly criticized some of your design decisions.\r\nNo
    pressure though - it would be for you, not me. You're welcome.\r\n\r\n> based
    on a lot of experience with non-profit groups\r\n\r\nIt seems you've hung out
    with the wrong people.\r\nChoosing carefully, I've managed to work in and\r\nwith
    non-profits to good satisfaction.\r\n\r\n> You really can\u2019t expect people
    to take anything on trust. \r\n\r\nThat's quite a telling statement, Nick.\r\nI
    myself think it's <cite>all</cite> about trust.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t need you
    to tell me what kind of volunteer work I should be doing.\r\n\r\nIt's certainly
    true that you need a lot of other things first.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 19:30:51'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Your manifesto is a farce of contradictions.\r\n<cite>A gallery should never
    forbid an artist to show his/her work... Unfinished and weak concepts should not
    be exhibited since it destroys the value and meaning of the art and design itself
    and can create a negative interest for galleries... Provoking art should never
    be disallowed as long as the artist can explain why he/she wants to create it...
    There must always be a general interest in art and design. Today the public tend
    to avoid the galleries that from the beginning was made for them.</cite>"
  created: '2006-03-22 19:48:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve managed to work in and with non-profits to good satisfaction.</em>\r\n\r\nBully
    for you. \r\n\r\n<em>I myself think it\u2019s all about trust.</em>\r\n\r\nRight.
    But be sure to tell your children not to trust strangers they meet on the internet."
  created: '2006-03-22 20:21:35'
- author:
    name: freddeuk
    picture: 111360
  body: "I think that since we never have had any interest\r\nin profit in The Caravan
    Project we didnt question\r\nhow other people would see it. Now I start to see\r\nwhy
    people missunderstand our whole message.\r\n\r\n1. TCP is not a company or sponsored
    by a company. \r\nThe Caravan Project is a rolling gallery that will\r\ngive local
    artists and designers the chance to show their\r\nwork without having to go through
    the posh and pretentious\r\ngalleries.\r\n\r\n2. The whole idea with the brief
    was not to get alot of\r\nspec work. We simply wanted others to be as passionate
    as\r\nus about our project and instead of just showing our own\r\nwork and copyright
    everything we did we wanted to show as\r\nmany talented designers as possible
    and also try to make\r\npeople think about copyright since it nowdays is missused\r\nin
    many ways through interpretentions almost identical to\r\nthe originals.\r\n\r\n3.
    We on TCP wanted to contribute to swedens most cultural\r\nand alternative music
    festival. We didnt want anyone to\r\nspecwork for us. We simply wanted as many
    motivated creatives\r\nas possible to join in, be it illustrators, typographers,
    artists\r\nor musicians, and in the end try to get the ones involved attention\r\nthrough
    an exhibition in Swedens capital Stockholm.\r\n\r\n4. To answer both Nick and
    Chris about elitism and art for the people I would like to clarify the manifesto
    since it obviously is missunderstood as it is today.\r\n\r\n\"A gallery should
    never forbid an artist to show his/her work\"\r\nNo discrimination shall be allowed
    be it racial, genderbased, ethical, class etc..\r\n\r\n\"Unfinished and weak concepts
    should not be exhibited\"\r\nJust because it isnt pretentious and posh it doesnt
    have to be a unprofessional and less qualitybased gallery.\r\n\r\n\"Provoking
    art should never be disallowed as long as the artist can explain why he/she wants
    to create it\"\r\nArt and design that are provoking should never be rejected just
    because it is provoking. The artist or designer must always have\r\nthe freedom
    to provoke. But the artist/designer must have a meaning as for why he/she wants
    to create the provocation.\r\n\r\n\"There must always be a general interest in
    art and design. Today the public tend to avoid the galleries that from the beginning
    was made for them\"\r\nWhat about it? Who can argue against that most galleries
    today have a strange athmosphere where people are not quite themselves and dont
    dare to ask or debate the works on the big white walls."
  created: '2006-03-23 06:10:33'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: I don't think the way to get people interested in art is to keep making conceptual
    art, as I assume you are, Freddeuk, from all the stuff about art as communication,
    the virtue of provocation, and bad art as the product of "unfinished or weak concepts".
    The problems with conceptual art are that most visual artists are bears of very
    little brain, so their insights are worthless; that the people don't want to spend
    their weekends going to see the embodied big ideas of idiots; and that visual
    art, <em>contra</em> every exhibition catalogue produced in the last forty years,
    cannot "explore" "issues" because it doesn't have the structured semantic opportunities
    that language has. If you want to end the low-grade elitism of galleries now,
    direct your bile at conceptual art. Race-gender-class prejudice is hardly a dominant
    force in the art-world, for God's sake! Attributing all ills to that kind of elitism
    seems a bit odd after the long purge of elitism has has created this sea of gurk,
    in which people as obviously incompetent as you expect to be taken seriously as
    theorists.
  created: '2006-03-23 14:21:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Today the public tend to avoid the galleries that from the beginning
    was made for them</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not true in Britain, where places like Tate
    Modern have succeeeded in engaging the public, by the million, with the kind of
    sensational \"conceptual-lite\" art that George derides. "
  created: '2006-03-23 18:56:27'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'My last post was much too harsh, Freddeuk; I apologise for being so rude,
    since your intentions are honourable. '
  created: '2006-03-24 00:58:04'
- author:
    name: freddeuk
    picture: 111360
  body: "We have now changed our way of working thanks\r\nto the constructive critique
    from some people\r\nhere and Catherine on No-spec.\r\n\r\n\r\nhttp://blog-omotives.blogspot.com/2006/03/caravan-project-and-others-in-design.html\r\n\r\nhttp://www.no-spec.com"
  created: '2006-03-27 23:15:48'
- author:
    name: freddeuk
    picture: 111360
  body: "We have now two Typography briefs on\r\nthe webpage: http://www.thecaravanproject.com/typebrief.php"
  created: '2006-04-08 02:49:33'
- author:
    name: editor
  body: "So stupid (from their webpage): \"The Caravan Project is Petter Johansson,
    Magnus Berg and Fredrik \xD6st. We all have a great passion for design. TCP is
    a non-profit group that will strive to bring design and art back to the people.
    TCP will also work to gather all parts of culture together. For example: let music
    inspire design and design inspire music.\"\r\n\r\nThey've put up a no-spec logo
    on their site.. how does that work?"
  created: '2006-04-10 21:54:11'
date: '2006-03-16 03:07:07'
node_type: forum
title: To the best typographers in the world

---
