---
author:
  name: dberlow
body: "So is this right?\r\n\r\nAlpha CT Omega Font Spec.\r\n\r\nTake TT outline that
  has been made for screen use, e.g.:\r\n    a. alignments quantized to a norm of
  8, 2 for descent, etc.\r\n    b. vertical stems quantized to 8, Cap round and square,
  etc.\r\n    c. horizontal stems quantized  to 4, 2 thick, two thin for O.S* e.g.\r\n
  \   d. all laterally and bilaterally symmetrical contours, are exactly.\r\n    e.
  Quantize all kerning data.\r\n    f. There are also built-in assumptions about good
  screen letter design including, but not exclusively, managing maximum distinctiveness-in-appearance
  among  1lI!ij\xEF\xED\xEE and \xA1, e.g.\r\n\r\nAdditional CT specific outline manipulations:\r\n
  \   a. for full horizontal adaptability to the rasterizer,\r\n        1. Quantize
  all horizontal counters.\r\n        2. Quantize all inter-character spaces.\r\n
  \       3. Quantize all kerning data.\r\n        4. Lighten all diagonal strokes.\r\n
  \   b. for full familial adaptability to the rasterizer,\r\n        1. Lighten all
  diagonal strokes in Italic.\r\n        2. Lighten all diagonal strokes in Bold Italic
  the same amount as \r\n            was reduced from the normal italic, (and from
  roman diagonals?)\r\n\r\nQuantize, in this context, means to reduce an indiscrete
  group of values to a few discrete groups by averaging them together. This should
  be done to the values, representing features of typefaces, whenever the complexity
  of these features far exceeds the ability of the output to display them to the user.
  \r\n\r\nLighten in this context, means to remove areas of black (that would otherwise
  be controlled by TT hints)."
comments:
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nothing?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-21 21:42:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I pinged the ClearType team, some of them are on vacation this week.\r\n\r\nSi"
  created: '2006-03-21 22:27:36'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "Does anyone else have a link to good documentation on CT hinting? I feel
    like it should be somewhere with the MS typography area. Would it be with the
    documentation for the VTT tool?\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 00:58:09'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "[Edit] Carl, In general the CT team has said that in most cases special CT
    hinting is not required, but 'light' <em>y</em> direction hinting is appropriate,
    with some <em>x</em> direction hints to help in print and certain other scenarios.
    \r\n\r\nThere are some advanced techniques but these are really only appropriate
    in very specialized places (for example in a UI font), but in these cases they've
    often been able to give more specific advice and pointers to those that need it.\r\n\r\n[edit]
    David, the CT team are discussing your question - expect a post here within the
    next day or two.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 03:21:35'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "Hi David, I am not sure I fully understand your spec, but I think I get the
    general gist of it. It actually sounds like you are describing a spec to design
    for low resolution which is the case with ClearType, and so generally makes sense.
    Up until this point we have made no fonts targeted to work \u201Conly\u201D with
    ClearType onscreen. The fonts we made were primarily made for that purpose, but
    also intended to work for high res print, so we did not take the approach of Quantizing
    everything. It seems like a good idea to do this, and may help the individual
    glyph(s) render better onscreen in a more uniform way, but it also may push the
    design in a direction of slight uniformity. As with any \u201Cspec\u201D for designing
    a typeface, it\u2019s a pointer in the right direction, but the real task to getting
    it right is in the proofing. And so like any other type design project, it\u2019s
    not that different. The glyphs you mention as having to be designed to be different,
    seem more like general rules for any typeface design. In a spec for CT, I would
    be more inclined to give \u201Crules\u201D for the design of parts of glyphs,
    i.e. serifs, horizontal features, diagonals. Let\u2019s take the CT font collection.
    One of the things we noticed as we proofed existing fonts in ClearType was that
    certain glyphs did not render well and produced more \"jaggies\" than we liked
    at the lower screen sizes. As you know CT works in the direction of the stripes,
    so in general for LCD screens, that would be the horizontal direction. For Western
    fonts at least this is fortunate, as this is where most of the main info is, stems,
    symmetry, spacing, all of the things we had problems with in bi level rendering.
    So with CT turned on most of these problems go away, and actually with your approach
    to Quantize, this may give great results straight away. However we are still using
    the old full pixel method in the y direction. So, in the design of glyphs like
    the lowercase \"g\" particularly the spectacle type of \"g\" the horizontal part
    is better designed as horizontal as possible, to reduce the effect of \u201Cjaggies\u201D.
    Take a look at Perpertua on screen with CT, it works pretty well, but the \"g\"
    really does not render well, as it has a very vertical and lengthy part to the
    glyph. By making the design features as horizontal as possible, you can get great
    looking results, without making too many compromises, and it also helps the rasterizer
    naturally render the glyphs more cleanly. I think lightening the diagonals is
    a good idea, but not too much, and once again this can be best viewed when proofing.
    Same goes for the Bold weights. Actually as I mentioned to you before, it may
    be better to design the Bold font a little bolder then normal, as it now needs
    to stand out from the Roman a little more. In the bi level rendering, the regular
    font was usually 1 pixel while the bold was 2. This was way too much, and CT makes
    this situation much closer to print. \r\n\r\nAs far as hinting for CT, there really
    is no big mystery. Of course as Si mentioned there are some advanced techniques,
    but in general, all that is needed is a good solid set of ydirection hints, to
    control alignments, x-heights, cap heights, all the usual suspects, remember that
    the y-direction does not get the extra resolution, so actually it becomes more
    critical to get this right. I will have a chat with Simon and see if I can get
    something posted on the Web about this. \r\n\r\nlet me know if any of this helps\r\n\r\nmike"
  created: '2006-03-22 17:48:23'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "It does thanks. I have some questions on what you said, but the biggest is
    about the Roman/Italic weights. If horizontal hints are abandoned, but vertical
    are not, then horizontal weights can only increase relative to verticals, they
    cannot decrease. Diagonal strokes, likewise, can only increase in weight if un-hinted.
    Since Italic increases in weight faster than the Roman, as the resolution goes
    down, then one must expect, and John Hudson indicated that it was the case in
    the CT fonts, that Italic styles needed to be lightened from their nominal weight
    for print. I should be obvious in either the print samples or the screen samples.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I'm confused by the conflicting guide to hinting from You and Si..."
  created: '2006-03-22 21:58:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> conflicting guide to hinting from You and Si\r\n\r\nPlease ignore me, Mike
    is the expert. I may well have mistyped when transcribing Mike, Tom and Beats
    advice to this forum. \r\n\r\nMike, if you spot where I've contradicted your advice
    let me know - fortunately unlike real life typophile lets me correct my mistakes. "
  created: '2006-03-23 01:35:35'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "I think David was referring to the y-direction hinting for print advice.
    Actually its mostly the other way around. For the purposes of this discussion
    we are talking about CT onscreen, but if you also care about print, then adding
    x-direction hints to main stems, will help maintain good output at higher resolutions
    such as printers. If you do not care about print output, or you do not care about
    black and white screen output, then you can mostly do away with x-hints. There
    are some cases where some might be needed, as you cannot always do x and y hints
    totally independant of each other, but for the most part I have found generally
    good looking results without x hints for CT. The y alignments, x-height, caps
    height, decender control, and accent control, as well as contolr of certain glyphs
    like lowercase \"e\" and anything with a crossbar, need careful attention. The
    goal in all of this is to cause as little distortion to the original outline as
    possible. \r\n\r\nas far as italic weights go, it would seem to me that once again
    proofing some key characters in the regurlar v the italic, from the outset will
    give you the idea on weight. I will have to go read Johns theory on italics again,
    but either way its all pretty subtle, and making these decisions by eye are what
    type design is al about. \r\n\r\nmike"
  created: '2006-03-23 12:16:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Not directly concerning CT, but arising from some of Mike's comments:\r\nDoesn't
    TT allow hints to depend on output PPEM? If so, shouldn't it be\r\npossible to
    avoid compromising screen display for print and vice versa?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-23 13:24:39'
- author:
    name: mike_duggan
    picture: 109519
  body: "True Type is pretty powerful and adding ppem specific hinting will increase
    code and time, but can be done. Other advanced methods of hinting for CT can also
    be done. I will try and cover some more of this in detail when I get around to
    posting more information on the MST website.\r\napologies for the typos in my
    last post...\r\nmike"
  created: '2006-03-23 13:59:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> will increase code and time\r\n\r\nFor diminishing returns - I understand.\r\n\r\nOne
    other tangential question: I remember when VTT was modified to be able to specify
    if a hint was for 1-bit <strong>OR</strong> grayscale rendering (the former being
    the old MS core font cornerstone). What I've since wondered (and at TypeCon'04
    somebody from Ascender replied to me in the affirmative, but I'm still doubtful)
    is whether anybody actually ever made a font with rendering optimized for teen-PPEM
    grayscale (non-subpixel) rendering. Or did CT and/or too-much-effort/size kill
    that avenue.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-23 14:29:35'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "with a little investigation you can find out if you are in CT.\r\n\r\nThen
    with a function you could do something different such as lightening or thickening
    a stem in X. But you never actually know what your target device is so it's a
    bit of a waste of times in many cases. \r\n\r\nIt can be done but it's really
    a bit academic. I've done conditional CT hinting but its mainly CT Deltas (functions
    not true Deltas) and these were mainly to thicken up an UC stem that was a bit
    light compared to other stems. \r\n"
  created: '2006-03-23 14:42:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I think David was referring to the y-direction hinting for print advice.
    \r\n\r\nFixed, thanks Mike."
  created: '2006-03-23 14:43:08'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\r\n\"Take a look at Perpertua on screen with CT, it works pretty well, but
    the \u201Cg\u201D really does not render well, as it has a very vertical and lengthy
    part to the glyph.\"\r\n\r\nI've migrated to a bilaterally symmetrical lower bowl
    for screen fonts.\r\n\r\n\"The goal in all of this is to cause as little distortion
    to the original outline as possible.\"\r\n\r\nA noble goal. But as the resolution
    falls the goal should change to causing as little distortion to the best outline
    possible.\r\n\r\n\"If you do not care about print output, or you do not care about
    black and white screen output, then you can mostly do away with x-hints. \"\r\n\r\nThe
    other \"if\" you should add, is, \"if the composition system is exclusively going
    to sub-pixel position the origin and advance width of each letter according to
    the original outline, and only the original outline, then you must! mostly do
    away with x-hints, because, in the lower reaches of resolution. One cannot design/hint
    for separate distortion of figure and ground, can they?\r\n\r\nThe other if, is:
    if type were just x and y, this'd be short discussion. The only reason it continues,
    is because type has x, y, and a. and these angled strokes are both x and y. I
    of course, believe that no avenue to a fully crafted solution exists unless x
    and y and a are all under complete control of the designer, which is TT and any
    number of \"natural\"rasterizers.\r\n\r\nBut, be that as it may be, I think everyone
    agrees that at the very lowerst reaches of resolution aliased type works best
    yes? (7-10). Agreed? So, is CT going to have a base ppm, below which aliased letters
    & spacing are used, or in the lower reaches, what?\r\n\r\n\"Johns theory on italics
    again, but either way its all pretty subtle, and making these decisions by eye
    are what type design is all about.\"\r\n\r\nI am certain that making decisions
    by eye is appropriate in many many instances of type design. But, there are other
    instances of type design, where the term eye is not appropriate because the decision
    is bigger than any eye can take in.\r\n\r\n\"is whether anybody actually ever
    made a font with rendering optimized for teen-PPEM grayscale (non-subpixel) rendering.
    Or did CT and/or too-much-effort/size kill that avenue.\"\r\n\r\nRip Van Papazian
    just woke up? Can you say that again?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-24 14:46:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I think everyone agrees that at the very lowerst reaches\r\n> of resolution
    aliased type works best yes? (7-10)\r\n\r\n1) The lowest reaches are below that,
    and there a-a adds a critical dimension to legibility. Not that I enjoy reading
    that stuff.  :-)\r\n2) Show me any bitmap font in your range, and I will improve
    its readability with grayscaling.\r\n\r\n> Rip Van Papazian just woke up? Can
    you say that again?\r\n\r\nAre you thinking I'm asking for something that's been\r\ndone
    a million times already? Then let me try again:\r\n\r\nIs there a font that controls
    its (non-CT) grayscale rendering using hinting?\r\nFor example makes the top-right
    of the \"n\" actually look nice.\r\n\r\nIs there a font that looks like this\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/Mana13&11.gif
    _\r\nvia hinting?\r\n\r\n(BTW, that there is nothing exotic format-wise: it's
    a\r\nTT font, and it works the same in Windows and OSX.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-24 15:16:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So:\r\nHow hard would it be to hint a \"normal\" print font to rasterize
    the \"g\" below?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Atanasia_g.gif]\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-24 18:15:05'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "in Windows you are normally best to turn off grey scale when the stems are
    one pixel. So you would not end up with that image. \r\n\r\nCleartype tweak example:
    \r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kct.jpg]\r\n\r\nimage on the left, left
    stem of 'K' is light, image on the right a conditional change is made."
  created: '2006-03-25 14:32:27'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "same size and glyphs in binary and greyscale same hints. Final font used
    'gasp' table so that this size would not be greyscaled since it had only one pixel
    stems. (20 ppem)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Kbwg.jpg]"
  created: '2006-03-25 14:33:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> you would not end up with that image.\r\n\r\nHmmm, let me try this again:
    I <cite>want</cite> to end up with that image. Currently I do it using partial
    \"virtual pixels\" in a pixelfont; but the resultant outlines can't be used for
    print. What I'm wondering is why some TT hinting guru hasn't -as far as I know-
    produced a \"normal\" outline font with grayscaling enabled at teen PPEM sizes,
    solid stems and bars, and hinting to makes the curves and diagonals looks decent.
    Is it because it's too much work? And the stems don't have to be 1 or 2 or 3 pixels
    - they just have to be solid (and monochromatic, please).\r\n\r\nThe \"K\" example
    is intresting though.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-25 14:42:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Actually, the stems (and bars) don't absolutely have to be solid,\r\nthey
    just have to be controlled, not left to the luck-of-grid-draw.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-25 14:48:48'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "you can get close but in the outline the curve points will create percentages
    of grey and not full black as you have done. \r\n\r\nbut in TT you can almost
    anything (except randomize). this isn't correct = <code>You could vectorize the
    outline by using the lowlevel TT instruction flipon/flipoff which runs a point
    to/from an on curve to an off curve, put them all on curve at some sizes then
    back to off curve then you could align points to a grid. </code> but you can flipon/off
    is for something else. I'll have to look up how I did manipulate the outline.
    But yes you can manipulate any outline to do almost anything at low sizes as long
    as the instructions are used.\r\n\r\nI made an example of that turning a Uppercase
    N into a lowercase n, at small pointsizes at RIDT back in 97 I think. \r\n\r\nthis
    is a random lowercase 'g' hinted in VTT that I could get near to what you have
    but would have to vectorize the outline to make those extreme black to white area
    that are only possible when you are on a pixel boundary.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gee.jpg]"
  created: '2006-03-25 14:56:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Thanks for trying your expert hand a this. I hadn't heard of \"vectorize
    the outline\" before. Is that different than delta-hinting? Because delta-hinting
    <cite>can</cite> make solid pixels at whim, no? If so, why not use that?\r\n\r\n>
    I made an example of that turning a Uppercase N into a lowercase n\r\n\r\nYes,
    I remember that! Even more impressive to me\r\nwas your usage/supression of traps
    depending on size.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, about italics again, here's an old -cached-
    thread with interesting stuff:\r\nhttp://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:a4_AVy_YddIJ:www.typophile.com/forums/messages/30/51334.html+site:http://www.typophile.com+ct+italic+hhp&hl=en&gl=us&ct=clnk&cd=1&client=firefox-a\r\n\r\nLook
    towards the middle of that thread at the \"h\"s.\r\nHonestly, which italic is
    better?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-25 15:19:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, the hijack is over. All hostages released unharmed.\r\nAll the RSB (Revolutionary
    Screenfont Brigade) asks is\r\nthat they alert their network media to the following:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/18802\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-25 16:37:17'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sorry to be late to the party. David, my comment about CT italics on the
    ATypI list was not that 'that Italic styles needed to be lightened from their
    nominal weight for print'. On the contrary, what I noted was that although the
    diagonal stems gather more pixels the colour filtering makes them appear lighter
    than the vertical stems (although this is in part dependent on the tuning of the
    CT renderer). So in order to maintain a good contrast (notan for Hrant) in the
    italic, you do <em>not</em> want to make it too light. So my recommendation is
    to sort out the weight of the italic first with a few test glyphs, and then derive
    the appropriate weight for the roman relative to the italic.\r\n\r\nHere is the
    exchange from the ATypI list. Your initial quetion in italics, and my response
    in bold. The link is still live.\r\n\r\n<em>We all know that to make a non-upright
    style to match an upright style, you make the non-upright style lighter to compensate
    for the angle, and you're done for print. But we also know you cannot trust the
    weights to look right on the screen, because the upright gathers fewer pixels
    than the non-upright, the \"color\" of the non-upright out darks the upright,
    (until it's time to print).</em>\r\n\r\n<strong>Some of this depends on how one
    tunes the CT renderer. What I notice, with the fairly light tuning I use, is that
    although the oblique stems gather the same number or more subpixels than the upright,
    the colour filtering is such that they appear lighter. The contrast of the pixels
    gathered in the upright stems tends to have a higher contrast than those in the
    oblique.\r\n\r\nWhen I was designing Constantia, my solution to the issue was
    to make the roman a touch darker than I would have for a purely print type, and
    this gave me more leeway with the weight of the italic: I could ensure that it
    didn't render darker than the roman without making it too light when printed.\r\n\r\nSee:
    http://www.tiro.com/John/CTroman-italic.gif\r\n\r\n[Note that this screenshot
    is of Windows XP CT rendering in Word, so does not display subpixel positioning.
    The usual caveats apply about looking at ClearType in screenshots, especially
    on different monitor resolutions.]</strong>"
  created: '2006-03-27 03:18:13'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'David, of the MS CT fonts, Jelle''s Cambria is probably closest in approach
    to the kind of quantizing you describe. '
  created: '2006-03-27 03:21:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Jelle\u2019s Cambria is probably closest in approach\r\n> to the kind of
    quantizing you describe.\r\n\r\nIs it telling/worrisome that Cambria also happens
    to be the ugliest one?\r\nI mean in its outlines.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-27 05:00:13'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: hrant, i thought you were a fan of ugly. >^P
  created: '2006-03-27 05:24:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, touch\xE9.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-27 05:26:36'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"not that \u2018that Italic styles needed to be lightened from their nominal
    weight for print\"\r\noh. \r\n\"my solution to the issue was to make the roman
    a touch darker than I would have for a purely print type,\"\r\nYo ko...\r\n\"\"
    So my recommendation is to sort out the weight of the italic first with a few
    test glyphs, and then derive the appropriate weight for the roman relative to
    the italic.\"\r\n\r\nNot really on any design trajectory I'm familiar with, but
    I can do that. \r\n\r\nSo, really, even moderately optimized CT fonts should not
    be used for print. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-29 19:03:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> even moderately optimized CT fonts should not be used for print.\r\n\r\n1)
    Is that your opinion of the Longhorn/Vista fonts?\r\n2) There's always superhinting...
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-29 19:05:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>So, really, even moderately optimized CT fonts should not be used for
    print.</em>\r\n\r\nIt depends what you like type on paper to look like. It depends
    on what kind of printing you are talking about. It depends on what kind of paper
    you are talking about. There is no more a general case for print type than there
    is for screen type. There are probably some screen and print conditions that are
    actually closer to each other, in terms of what is desirable in an optimised typeface
    design, than to other conditions in their respective media.\r\n\r\nI should probably
    add that I like dark type, and think that a lot of common types used in print
    are too light and grey."
  created: '2006-03-30 04:14:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"It depends what you like type on paper to look like. It depends on what
    kind of printing you are talking about. It depends on what kind of paper you are
    talking about.\"\r\n\r\nIt also, apparently, depends on who you talk to. ;) \r\n\r\n\"There
    are probably some screen and print conditions that are actually closer to each
    other\"\r\n\r\nCan you give an example?\r\n\r\n\"There\u2019s always superhinting\u2026
    :-)\"\r\n\r\nNo, there isn't superhinting, as you call it, is only useful in systems
    where the spacing is discrete. "
  created: '2006-03-30 12:59:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> superhinting, as you call it, is only useful\r\n> in systems where the
    spacing is discrete.\r\n\r\nYou mean integer (because 1/3 is still discrete).\r\n\r\nI
    can understand that in terms of results-for-effort*, but not technically. What's
    there to stop a hinter from tweaking the outlines, per PPEM**, with 3x x-axis
    resolution? And why would VTT have been given the ability to distinguish between
    1-bit versus gs hints? For somebody who prefers Mana's rendering quality to the
    CT stuff (for more than one reason) might it not be not only doable but worthwhile?\r\n\r\n*
    Which is probably a big reason why no font -except maybe Palatino\r\nLinotype,
    but I suspect to a very limited extent- has done that yet.\r\n\r\n** BTW, I got
    \"superhinting\" from the big boys. The difference between regular hinting is
    the addressing of PPEM. I could use \"delta-hinting\", but that's too specific
    to the small movement of individual vertices.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSo John, you're
    saying that CT leans designs towards a darker weight; and causes italics to be
    the pivot point for weight determination? Interesting. Stuff's coming out the
    woodwork - gotta love Typophile. I like darkish fonts too; but I much prefer it
    determined by humans, as opposed to being a side-effect* of a corporation's need
    to keep \"improving\" (as much as I like CT).\r\n\r\n* Unforseen, and/or maybe
    uncared for?\r\n\r\nAnd David, you're saying that CT optimization puts too much\r\nstrain
    (aesthetic?) on outlines. Interesting. I can use that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-30 14:53:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"And David, you\u2019re saying that CT optimization puts too much\r\nstrain
    (aesthetic?) on outlines. \"\r\n\r\nI did not say that. What I said was that dividing
    the optimization among hints, outline and rasterizer, (the way CT does), puts
    enough strain on the outlines to make them less better for print, which John and
    MS are obliged to deny. "
  created: '2006-03-31 15:25:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK. So what kind of division of optimization would be better?\r\nIsn't the
    solution to have superhinted-CT, so you can warp\r\nprint-optimal outlines to
    whatever you'd like onscreen?\r\nI still don't understand why you think that's
    not doable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-31 15:58:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Can you give an example?</em>\r\n\r\nNo."
  created: '2006-03-31 21:44:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What I said was that dividing the optimization among hints, outline and
    rasterizer, (the way CT does), puts enough strain on the outlines to make them
    less better for print, which John and MS are obliged to deny.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't
    think I'm obliged to deny that. But I think I can say that the statement is less
    accurate about ClearType than it was about b/w bitmap rendering, and it is less
    accurate about ClearType on my Dell computer than it is about ClearType on my
    Panasonic computer, and it is less accurate about the way I have my ClearType
    tuned than the way huge swathes of Windows users have their ClearType tuned.\r\n\r\nI
    certainly don't claim that ClearType has erased the distinction between screen
    and print, but together with advances in screen technology it has narrowed that
    distinction and, in the process, created an interesting design space. Constantia
    was a deliberate attempt to create a hybrid screen/print typeface within that
    design space. If I had optimised it for screen alone, it would be different. If
    I had optimised it for print alone, it would be different. But I was trying to
    optimise a dual-media typeface, making it as good for screen as possible without
    making it completely inappropriate for print, and as good for print as possible
    without making it useless for screen."
  created: '2006-03-31 21:57:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>So John, you\u2019re saying that CT leans designs towards a darker weight;
    and causes italics to be the pivot point for weight determination?</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    observation about italics is simply my own conclusion, arrived at while designing
    Constantia. It is a methodology that I found helpful in managing the relative
    weights in the ClearType environment. I'm quite certain that there are other methodologies.\r\n\r\nThe
    observation that a slightly darker weight is desirable in ClearType has been expressed
    numerous times by people in the ART group at MS. The Berling Antiqua fonts that
    shipped with the MS Reader are slightly heavier than the common version. I'm not
    sure about the Frutiger."
  created: '2006-03-31 22:06:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the statement is less accurate about ClearType\r\n> than it was about b/w
    bitmap rendering\r\n\r\nReally? I don't see that, when you consider that the 1-bit
    stuff was superhinted, while the CT fonts are not (and David seems to think they
    can't be). But let me ask David, since I myself am actually not seeing the problem
    (yet): is Georgia closer to your ideal than the CT fonts?\r\n\r\nOne place where
    I do agree though is the Bold: even though I've never managed to extract a confession
    that the Bolds were too bold in the old MS core fonts because of the screen, there
    have been slips that affirm it, plus it's really obvious anyway.\r\n\r\n> it is
    less accurate about ClearType on my Dell computer than\r\n> it is about ClearType
    on my Panasonic computer, and it is less\r\n> accurate about the way I have my
    ClearType tuned than the way\r\n> huge swathes of Windows users have their ClearType
    tuned.\r\n\r\nYou're talking about the screen. David is talking about print,\r\nand
    no matter how the CT fonts look onscreen using a given\r\nsetup the outlines are
    the same.\r\n\r\n> it has narrowed that distinction\r\n\r\n1) Again, as above,
    I'm not seeing that.\r\n\r\n2) In terms of WYSIWYG, I think that's an illusion.\r\nWhen
    resolutions are so different, it's just not the same design.\r\n\r\n> Constantia
    was a deliberate attempt to create a hybrid screen/print typeface\r\n\r\nBut therein
    lies the problem, no?\r\n(BTW, as you know, I do like Constantia.)\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m
    quite certain that there are other methodologies.\r\n\r\nBut you like yours best,
    no?\r\n\r\n> The Berling Antiqua fonts that shipped with the\r\n> MS Reader are
    slightly heavier than the common version.\r\n\r\nI didn't know that.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I'll always remember my abrupt shift in opinion when I first saw Berling used
    for the Reader: I started with a \"pfft\", but then it hit me how suitable the
    vertical proportions and details of finish were (at least for a canned, as opposed
    to custom, font).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-31 23:14:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But therein lies the problem, no?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, therein lies the design
    brief :)\r\n\r\nObviously, if you are not optimising for either screen or print,
    then you are compromising both. But if your goal is not to optimise for either,
    but to create as good a hybrid as the target rendering technology on the screen
    side will allow, then compromise is the design solution. Now I think David is
    quite right to question whether the target rendering technology of ClearType is
    really good enough, close enought to print, to establish a design space in which
    such hybrids are viable. That is the sort of question that should be asked, and
    in many respects the CT font collection represents the efforts of several different
    designers to respond to that question, since the general design brief was for
    types designed for CT rendering which would also look good in print, and the specific
    brief for Constantia was for a typeface that could be used in both eletronic and
    print media editions. \r\n\r\n<em>But you like your [methodology] best, no?</em>\r\n\r\nThere
    were half a dozen different designers working on the CT fonts (not including the
    Japanese design, but including Matthew's Latin, Greek and Cyrillic companion),
    and each took a different approach to the brief and worked out a different methodology.
    Far from saying that I like mine best, I think the range of possible approaches
    is far from exhausted, and I don't think we're in a position to claim that there
    is a right way to design for ClearType that everyone should follow. It is still
    very much a live design problem, which should be subject to more thought and,
    crucially, explored in more designs.\r\n\r\nIf I were starting Constantia now,
    with what I've learned and observed, I would certainly do some things differently.
    Most likely, my approach would combine aspects of the methodology I developed
    for weight with Jelle's approach to spacing in Cambria, which I think worked out
    better for screen than Constantia's."
  created: '2006-04-01 02:12:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly, I'm a big believer in the centrality of compromise.\r\nBut your/David's
    question concerning the viability of these CT hybrids stands.\r\n\r\n> Jelle\u2019s
    approach ... worked out better\r\n\r\nCould you elaborate?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-01 02:35:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I'd need to spend some time actually analysing Jelle's spacing: at the moment
    I'm just responding to the overall results. In general terms, the spacing of Cambria
    is slightly looser than Constantia, but I'm not sure how much this accounts for.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    I go back and forth on this: sometimes I prefer the way Constantia reads onscreen,
    sometimes I prefer the way Cambria reads. This goes back to what I wrote above:
    it is too soon to be talking about correct methodologies or definitive design
    recommendations for this technology. We're going to need to live with ClearType,
    hopefully with generally higher resolution screens, and with these typefaces for
    a while before we'll have a good idea of what works best. I use the CT fonts in
    as many places as I can on my system, but when Vista ships and more people start
    using them, I think we'll get some good feedback.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ConsCamb.gif]\r\n_\r\n\r\nI
    like the fact that Constantia looks <em>black</em> like type should, and not the
    aenemic grey of most onscreen type, but the slightly looser spacing of Cambria
    is very pleasing."
  created: '2006-04-01 08:39:24'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "The Cambria example also seems to have \u2014 or at least it <em>feels</em>
    it has \u2014 more interlinear space. When I look at the two paragraphs, the one
    set in Constantia feels like it was set solid, or was vertically \"squooshed\".\r\n\r\nIn
    addition to being lighter than Constantia, one other thing making Cambria more
    pleasing to read might be its narrower proportions. I feel that the wider proportions
    of Constantia make it less faster to read too."
  created: '2006-04-01 13:45:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That sample uses subpixel positioning. If that's not available until Vista,
    could you please show what Windows XP would, since that's what people will be
    seeing for at least another year? But a more important adjustment I'd ask for
    is to make the apparent sizes closer. I can see that you've equated the x-heights,
    but Constantia has fully two pixels more height there*, plus it's darker**, so
    it becomes harder to compare the two. The third thing I'd recommend changing is
    the leading: Constantia has less apparent leading than Cambria (which makes it
    look [even] darker). If you could put up a revised image that would be nice.\r\n\r\n*
    Proof that there's certainly more to apparent size than the x-height.\r\n\r\n**
    Which is why it <cite>needs</cite> to be tighter, clearly.\r\n\r\nAs it stands,
    on my screen (pretty lo-ppi) Cambria looks better; and this makes me wonder if
    there isn't something to David's complaint after all: as I've said before (sorry,
    Jelle) Cambria is also the one I find uglier. But I'd rather wait for a revised
    image to be sure.\r\n\r\nBTW, another question: At what PPEM does Constantia\r\nacquire
    two full pixels of stem width? And Cambria?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-01 13:55:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Something else:\r\nI noticed that double-el combinations in Cambria exhibit
    the same color pattern for each el. This is not the case for all doubles (like
    \"ee\"), although the double-el arguably has the greatest need to look consistent,
    seeing as how it's just a pair of adjacent sticks. For me this a big plus, with
    the double-el in Constantia shows one of the three main things wrong with ClearType
    (that a character's rendering varies depending on where it falls on the subpixels).
    What I'm wondering is, is this something Jelle did on purpose, or is it a happy
    coincidence? If the former, is this something he did for this PPEM only, or did
    he use [super]hinting to make the width of the \"el\" snap to the subgrid for
    each PPEM?\r\n\r\nAlso:\r\nWhy do you think Cambria is exhibiting less color fringeing
    than Constantia?\r\nIs it simply a matter of luck what PPEMs each \"likes\" in
    that way?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-01 14:19:47'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Oh John, you and spacing, your bete noire. Please comment on the latest spanner
    I have to throw into the works: Cnet's shootout of the two available 30-inch high
    res consumer LCD monitors reveals that Dell's has <em>antialiasing built into
    its hardware</em>. What are the implications of this for ClearType and other rasterisers?
    Will hardware antialiasing become prevalent? How will it conflict with software
    antialiasing?\r\n\r\nAnd how necessary is hinting today if Apple's Quartz presently
    discards all TT and PS hints and users appear to be delighted?\r\n\r\nWould someone
    - John is probably the only person with both the energy and the expertise to do
    so - please post some illustrations revealing the effective differences between
    ClearType, CT2, Cooltype, and Quartz rendering, along with some discussion points?
    Obviously this should include comparative representations of CT fonts, 'ordinary'
    TT, and 'ordinary' T1. A daunting task but it would be very illuminating.\r\n\r\nWhat
    will be far more difficult is to test and illustrate how well Dell's hardware
    antialiasing is working, since that would require some sort of standardised photographic
    setup I imagine. Who else is doing hardware antialiasing or has plans to do so?
    Are there any publications that refer to it? David I realise this isn't entirely
    on-topic, but it's not altogether off either, and I was so surprised to learn
    of hardware aa that I thought I had to mention it."
  created: '2006-04-01 17:11:17'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "On this blog\r\n\r\nhttp://www.digg.com/hardware/30-inch_Apple_Cinema_Display_vs._Dell_UltraSharp_3007WFP\r\n\r\nthere
    are some interesting comments on the Cnet review, some casting doubt as to whether
    hardware AA is really occurring. Could the reviewer really have made such an error?
    There is also an interesting comment by someone who claims that Quartz-rendered
    text is easier to read than CT. "
  created: '2006-04-01 17:29:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Hardware anti-aliasing works based on bitmaps, right?\r\nSo it's necessarily
    hopelessly inferior to anti-aliasing from vectors.\r\n\r\nThe thing is, AFAIK
    such display systems work by taking a\r\ndouble-resolution image and anti-aliasing
    it down to their\r\nnative resolution* (because it's cheaper than having that\r\ngreat
    a resolution) and this might throw off CT's colors.\r\nBut: you could always write
    a special driver; and you\r\nshould be able to turn off the hardware AA.\r\n\r\n*
    Not much to test, really.\r\n\r\nBTW, anybody remember those hi-res b&w monitors
    (Viking, I believe) from the 80s? Not a new idea.\r\n\r\n> how necessary is hinting
    today if Apple\u2019s Quartz ...\r\n\r\nSmall stat for you: Mac market penetration:
    ~5%.\r\n\r\n> users appear to be delighted?\r\n\r\nApple users get delighted at
    anything with an Apple logo on it.\r\nExcept maybe if it blows their eardrums
    out.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nThe global comparison you want would be revealing, but there
    is\r\nthe issue of gamma difference between platforms, and you would in\r\nfact
    be hard-pressed to find anybody to do it for you. Why don't\r\nyou do it? And
    be sure to include the rendering that outperforms\r\nthem all onscreen: handmade
    gs.\r\n\r\nBTW, some combinations of such comparisons have been done,\r\nincluding
    on Typophile. My own conclusions have been that:\r\n1) For Roman, the quality
    order is: handmade, CT, Quartz, CoolType.\r\n2) For Italic: handmade and CT are
    tied overall, then the rest again.\r\n\r\nBut what would blow them all away is
    superhinted CT.\r\nOr handmade subpixel, which however requires color addressing.\r\n\r\n>
    someone who claims that Quartz-rendered text is easier to read \r\n\r\nLet me
    take a wild guess: he also happens to be the\r\nproud owner of both the iPod and
    the Mini iPod,\r\nand an Apple-branded hoodie?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-01 17:48:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The comparison above was thrown together very quickly in my CT test tool
    (yes, using subpixel positioning), with both fonts at a nominal 9pt. I didn't
    play with the various tuning and API option settings in the tool, and Constantia
    actually looks heavier in that example than it does using my normal tuning.\r\n\r\nHere
    is a comparison in WordPad on Windows XP SP2, i.e. without subpixel positioning,
    using my preferred tuning. Both fonts are nominal 9pt again, but this time on
    explicit 11pt leading.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ConsCambXP.gif]\r\n\r\n_\r\n\r\nMiguel,
    I generally find condensed typefaces considerably slower to read than nicely round
    ones: too many upright stems in close proximity and not enough well defined horizontals.
    Constantia aims for something close to traditional book face proportions with
    longer extenders and rounder proportions.\r\n\r\nIn <a href =\"http://psychology.wichita.edu/surl/usabilitynews/81/legibility.htm\">raw
    legibility testing</a> (accurately identifying individual glyphs flashed on screen),
    the alphabet characters in Constantia scored higher than Cambria. Unfortunately,
    the results for non-alphabetic characters were skewed by the fact that Constantia
    has default oldstyle numerals and currency symbols and Cambria has default lining
    forms. It's remarkable how few people can tell the difference between an oldstyle
    zero and a lowercase o when they see it at 8-t on a 120dpi screen for 34 milliseconds
    :)"
  created: '2006-04-01 22:02:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, thanks for the new graphic.\r\nThe apparent sizes are still not matched,
    but OK.\r\n\r\nIn this sample Constantia has an acceptably dark color to me,\r\nnot
    overly dark like the previous sample. Interestingly though\r\nCambria doesn't
    look any lighter.\r\n\r\nDo you guys think subpixel positioning is helping? I'm
    assuming subpixel positioning is making overall spacing look better... but I can't
    actually see it. Linebreaks probably become more predicatable too. But one bad
    thing subpixel positioning is definitely doing is making the rendering of a character
    vary. So is this a good trade-off?\r\n\r\n> I generally find condensed typefaces
    considerably\r\n> slower to read than nicely round ones\r\n\r\nAt the same point
    size, sure: they're bigger. But equalize\r\nthe apparent sizes, then things become
    decidedly different.\r\n(I'm talking about normal text sizes here.)\r\n\r\n> Constantia
    aims for something close to traditional book face proportions\r\n\r\nWhich also
    means it should be used at a larger point size than\r\nsomething like Cambria
    - and it's cool to have such distinctions.\r\n\r\nThe thing is, if you compare
    two fonts that have the same set-width but different x-heights, the small x-height
    one only <cite>seems</cite> wider, while in fact all it's doing is looking smaller
    (hence less readable, at least onscreen). The Latin x-height isn't so over-populated
    with stems that I think they need to be short to make things readable.\r\n\r\n>
    raw legibility testing\r\n\r\nCool - when did this come out?\r\n\r\n> tell the
    difference between an oldstyle zero and a lowercase o when ...\r\n\r\nShoulda
    used hybrids.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-01 23:38:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, by equalise 'apparent size' do yoy mean equalise the x-height? I guess
    so, because at these kind of ppem sizes, the vertical grid is too crude to allow
    any other kind of optical equalisation.\r\n\r\nIn order to equalise the x-height
    at this resolution, I have to increase both fonts to nominal 10pt, shown here
    on 12.5pt leading:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ConsCambXP2.gif]\r\n\r\n<em>Cool
    - when did this come out?</em>\r\n\r\nQuite recently.\r\n\r\n<em>Shoulda used
    hybrids.</em>\r\n\r\nEach Constantia font contains six different numeral styles,
    not including superior/inferior and fraction numerator/denominator, including
    tabular and proportional lining numerals, so it wasn't as if comparable numerals
    were not available for testing.\r\n\r\nIn typefaces with only one numeral style,
    e.g. Arabic Typesetting and Nyala, I do use hybrid numerals:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATNnum.gif]\r\n\r\nBut
    note that in the legibility study, 11% of participants managed to confused the
    lining zeros in Cambria and Times New Roman with lowercase o!"
  created: '2006-04-02 01:26:48'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: '[Thanks for the new graphic John (previous page). It looks much better.]'
  created: '2006-04-02 02:51:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, thanks again - but I think we're confusing each other.  :-)\r\n\r\nApparent
    size means just that: you look at them and you tweak the point sizes until they
    look the same size. At the same point size Cambria seems to be using less of the
    Em space. Which is strange. Maybe it's to offset the fact that its x-height is
    proportionately bigger? Did the set of CT fonts have a uniform apparent size design
    requirement? Because if so, I don't think it's working; probably because x-height
    isn't the only determinant of apparent size; there's also extenders, width, color,
    even internal proportions (like an \"e\" with a big eye visibly increases a font's
    apparent size). For example, Patria and Times* have pretty close vertical proportions
    (which was a coincidence, I swear) but the former looks bigger on the body.\r\n\r\n*
    And Georgia, interestingly.\r\n\r\nSo in every sample you've made Constantia looks
    bigger (because you've used the same point size for both) and it's not hard to
    see why: even though the x-heights are the same, its extenders are longer, it's
    wider, and it's darker! On the other hand, you've made me realize that -at least
    onscreen- what I want might not be possible: since the x-heights have to be integers
    (unless you want gobs of blur) just making Constantia's x-height one pixel smaller
    might make it look <cite>too small</cite> instead. Wait... I just did a comparison
    between the Constantia in your second image and the Cambria in this third one,
    and yes, the former at 7 pixels of x-height looks way smaller than the latter
    at 8 pixels of x-height (more off than what you've shown). So forget about matching
    the apparent sizes - sorry.\r\n\r\nBut this latest image wasn't a waste of effort,
    since it's made me realize that the larger the point size: the closer the two
    come in color; the less the color fringeing; and the more I prefer Constantia.\r\n\r\nHybrid
    nums: very glad to see you're a fan!\r\nBTW, the \"4\" in Nyala is very nice.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-02 06:45:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Calibri, Cambria, Candara and Corbel have a uniform x-height (950/2048 units).
    Constantia has a slightly shorter x-height (924/2048 units). Consolas has a larger
    x-height (1004/2048 units).\r\n\r\nCalibri, Candara, Corbel and Constantia have
    the same OS/2 vertical metrics sum (i.e. harmonised default linespacing). Cambria,
    I've just noticed, has slightly smaller OS/2 metrics; not sure why. Consolas has
    smaller OS/2 metrics."
  created: '2006-04-02 08:25:08'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Calibri, Cambria, Candara and Corbel... </em>\r\n\r\nAre'nt those the
    proposed province names of <a href=\"http://zapatopi.net/cascadia/\">the Republic
    of Cascadia</a>?"
  created: '2006-04-02 16:52:21'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "With regard to the question, are hints necessary at all today, it is not
    just Apple that has discarded hints in font renderers. From Mitsubishi's website,\r\n\r\n\"Technical
    Discussion:  Saffron provides an alternative font rasterizer that can be integrated
    in the OS, at the application level, or in embedded systems. It takes font outline
    descriptions as input, converts them to an internal ADF representation and renders
    them in real time. Because Saffron rendering is computationally simple and does
    not use TrueType or Type 1 hinting required by competing technologies, fonts do
    not need to be special cased; Saffron can be implemented in both custom hardware
    or accelerated using standard graphics processing units (GPUs).\"\r\n\r\nSo far
    I know, Saffron is being used in Flash currently, so there are two platforms where
    advanced font rendering takes place without reference to any hinting, and it does
    seem like the wave of the future if it is technically valid. I have no idea at
    this point. \r\n\r\nRegarding the samples of Constantia and Cambria, John's type
    and Jelle's type (doesn't matter what you call 'em, it's all confusing), here
    are my 2 cents, based on a quick look on 1900x1200 screen.\r\n\r\nConst looks
    it was spaced for 12 point, Camb for 8 point, relatively speaking, and relatively
    speaking, at these display sizes, Camb looks better. That's just a simple argument
    for the necessity of optical scaling in screen type which should be obvious. Printed
    (or shall we say 'screened') larger, Const would look better, Camb too loose.
    That's one of the important mechanisms going on here. \r\n\r\nFolks, you can do
    all the bloody legibility research you want, but you will never get away from
    the fact that type needs to be designed differently for different sizes. Until
    you have a mechanism in place to change the type design shapes as they scale up
    and down in size, you cannot provide anything near an optimal reading experience.\r\n\r\nApart
    from that, at these sizes, Const looks too square, too angular, too tightly spaced.
    Cambria is better optimised at this size, largely, but it has problems too: the
    g and f don't scan well; the f in particular seems to glop up. I have difficulty
    considering these types to be screen optimised as they are represented here, although
    I am sure that it would be easy for John to make comparisons that would show that
    what we are seeing really is a technical triumph. I have no doubt that it is.
    What I am saying is, judged just on their own, without comparison to anything
    else, and judged from an entirely subjective point of view of what constitutes
    legibility for me, I see considerable room for improvement. \r\n\r\nThat said,
    many improvements that could be made would apply only to particular sizes. But
    that is true of all type in all display systems. Once you are looking at it <em>this</em>
    closely, optical optimisation becomes the key issue. And Microsoft isn't addressing
    that, and has indeed gone a very far way to distance itself from that discussion.
    This represents one of the primary conceptual failures of CT2 I suspect."
  created: '2006-04-02 20:30:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> are hints necessary at all today\r\n\r\n\"Today\"? What happened between
    yesterday and today (I mean besides\r\nManagement needing to find a Next Big Thing)
    that has changed what\r\nonscreen text NEEDS to be?\r\n\r\n> converts them to
    an internal ADF representation\r\n\r\nEULA-violation-fest, anyone?\r\n\r\n> advanced
    font rendering takes place\r\n\r\nDefine \"advanced\"...\r\n\r\n> Printed (or
    shall we say \u2018screened\u2019) larger,\r\n> Const would look better, Camb
    too loose.\r\n\r\nWith their vertical proportions actually matching that well.\r\n\r\nOptical
    scaling: I'm as big a fan as anybody; but even without it there's room\r\nfor
    better and worse type; and the CT fonts are much better than average.\r\n\r\nThat
    said, guess what would be the most elegant way to implement\r\noptical scaling
    (well, 90%, if not fully) onscreen: superhinting!  :-)\r\n\r\n> I see considerable
    room for improvement.\r\n\r\nSo do I.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-02 20:48:57'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "\"That said, guess what would be the most elegant way to implement\r\noptical
    scaling (well, 90%, if not fully) onscreen: superhinting! :-)\"\r\n\r\nOK, I can
    see where that might be possible, but I would guess it would get you to more like
    20% than 90%. But suppose you have a type which changes shape as it moves up and
    down the optical scale -- part of a nice system which talks to the screen and
    knows how it's being displayed -- which is the only thing that makes sense. If
    you had that, wouldn't your hinting requirements be vastly simplified?\r\n\r\nAfter
    all, the problem of hinting a font for a single master that must be displayed
    at various different sizes is quite related to the problems of designing the outlines
    for a font that must be displayed at various sizes, and they are ultimately insoluble
    because all font designs are (almost invariably) only maximally legible at a certain
    size. There is only one way to solve the problem in either case, and that is to
    move away from static glyph shapes, which are so ... 70s. \r\n\r\nI have an idea
    which I would like to test if John can help me. My idea  is that for a given display
    size, non-static design may be more important than superhuman hinting of static
    glyphs in achieving the most legible result. I have been viewing the samples John
    posted with Firefox on a Dell 15-inch 1920x1200 screen. I think the problem with
    both fonts is that they are not well-optimised for this quite small space. Might
    something like Sumner Stone's new 5 point cut of Cycles, of which I happen to
    have two versions, look better, even without special hinting or anti-aliasing?
    If John could tell us exactly how to prepare such an image (preferably for both
    Windows and Mac), I would be glad to try and post something to see if the theory
    held in this particular case. It wouldn't be a very good test in that 5 point
    Cycles is designed strictly for print, but it would be interesting to see if we
    could learn something, in a strictly limited way, from the comparison. I will
    see if I can get permission to use the types tomorrow, but my primary obstacle
    is not knowing how to create and post the images so that they are comparable as
    possible."
  created: '2006-04-03 08:30:21'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"15-inch 1920x1200 screen\"\r\n:-)"
  created: '2006-04-03 16:58:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bill, 90% is admittedly too optimistic IF you assume that a screen glyph's
    width has to be a rounding* of its outline glyph; within this constraint, it does
    indeed seem impossible to get adequate optical scaling, because all you could
    comfortably do is darken the color; increasing letterspacing would entail making
    the black bodies narrower, the opposite of what you'd like - especially when you
    couple that to the desirable larger x-height since that would make the forms unusually
    rectangular. BUT, if you hint the widths wider, you can get anything you want;
    the problem of course is you totally lose the line measure correspondence with
    the outline font, and it probably stops making sense to even make a font that
    has print outlines adapted to the screen... But if you simply want screen display,
    and you want to have the elegance of a fool-proof, optically-scaling one-font
    solution, I don't see a reason this can't work. On the other hand, it does seem
    to depend on the app: note how for example WordPad uses the bitmap widths to string
    lines while Word uses the cumulative outline widths to place glyphs; the good
    news is that browsers I think use the bitmap widths.\r\n\r\n* Or at most a less-than-one-pixel
    nudging.\r\n\r\n> all font designs are (almost invariably) only maximally legible
    at a certain size.\r\n\r\nMaximally, sure. But: it's not like you can ever ensure
    maximal readability anyway, since it's so contextual, and dynamic; and any improvement
    is still just that - there's no reason to stop trying just because we can't make
    it Perfect (as if that's even possible).\r\n\r\nDynamic fonts: all fine and dandy,
    and it's great to wonder\r\nabout the possibilities, but there's also the minor
    issue of\r\ntrying to make current real-life users happy...\r\n\r\n> 15-inch 1920x1200
    screen\r\n\r\nAt a distance of 20 feet, I presume...  :-/\r\nBill, don't you realize
    how off that is?\r\n\r\n> not knowing how to create and post the images \r\n\r\nCreate:
    Do a screen grab from your OS of choice, then save it as a GIF.\r\n\r\nPost: Install
    Flash in your browser, or provide an external link.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW, one
    thing that somebody (like me) should really have\r\npointed out by now is the
    gamma issue: any sample of a CT\r\nor Quartz render anybody puts up* will look
    pretty different\r\non Windows and Mac; of note here is that the more blurry a\r\nsample
    is (the more it relies on grays) the more it will be\r\naffected; going from Windows
    to Mac for example will cause\r\nthinner features to become washed out; this btw
    is one good\r\nreason to use handmade gs fonts, since they rely much more\r\non
    solid black, and don't use light grays for too much form.\r\nA further complication
    in the case of CT is that brightness\r\nwill affect the balance of the colors
    as well, so viewing John's\r\nWindows samples on the Mac will probably increase
    the\r\ncolor fringeing.\r\n\r\n* Unless it's a PNG with gamma-correction values
    in there;\r\nbut is that even supported by any app, in particular FireFox?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-03 17:45:11'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Near as I can come with Cycles 5 point--and please consider that this font
    is intended for printing at five points, not for screen display at whatever. This
    is from a Mac, TextEdit, anti-aliasing set to 'light'. I guess the 7 point would
    look better--the x-height seems too large here and maybe the spacing is just a
    trifle too loose for this screen representation. But considering there is no hinting
    at all, it seems remarkably legible ... would we learn anything by  seeing some
    versions prepared in Windows? What, if anything, does CT XP do to PostScript fonts?
    Would it look different with Cooltype?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture
    7abc.png]"
  created: '2006-04-04 10:19:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Bill, thanks for putting up that sample. It looks like a charming print font*,
    but here it looks decidedly less crisp than John's samples**. Also, although I
    don't think it's too loose***, I do agree that the x-height is a bit too large,
    and it also seems a bit too wide. Furthermore, it's too dark, even when I compensate
    for the cross-platform gamma difference (which your PNG facilitates though an
    embedded profile, although [probably] only Photoshop can handle this).\r\n\r\n*
    Except for one quite strange decision: why are the descenders longer than the
    ascenders?!\r\n\r\n** Although this could hypothetically be due to Quartz versus
    CT (since I for one think the latter's algorithm is a bit superior). It would
    be nice to see this setting done on Windows as well; let me know if I can help
    there.\r\n\r\n*** Although the wordspace is slightly too narrow.\r\n\r\n> not
    for screen display at whatever.\r\n\r\nBut this is moot anyway*, because the only
    way it <cite>could</cite> be\r\nfor the screen is if it were hinted for the screen,
    but of\r\ncourse OSX would dump those hints anyway.\r\n\r\n* Except hypothetically
    for a single PPEM, which apparently nobody does though.\r\n\r\nOne place hinting
    would clearly help is in the vertical direction,\r\nto firm up the crossbars of
    the \"t\"/\"f\", the serifs of the \"w\", etc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 13:00:59'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Hrant, one thing I find is that all the fonts look crisper on XP, but then
    my dpi count is higher on XP than Mac. What I don't find is any marked difference
    in legibility, which is the major surprise for me. I would have expected the unhinted
    font to fall apart without special hinting. Why are the descenders longer than
    the ascenders? I would guess, to obtain minimal distortion of the underlying forms
    for maximal legibility at the target size if 4-6 points. But the underlying design
    isn't shown here - there are some good samples at www.stonetypefoundry.com. Darkness
    relates to one of the great subjective unknowns of optical scaling: to what extent
    do you vary stem width as you go up and down the optical scale? And what is your
    purpose in doing so if it is not to gain evenness of color with other sizes that
    are being printed on the same page? And if it is, how do you rationally judge
    what constitutes even color when different sizes of an optically scaled design
    are being presented on the same page? These are questions which must be answered,
    areas in which you have to be at least be able to think, if you are trying to
    design a system for optimal screen or paper printing of type.\r\n\r\nThere is
    a notorious method for quick and dirty optical optimisation of type: you simply
    scale horizontally and track positively as you go down the scale in size. This
    achieves remarkably fine results given the minimal expenditure of effort, and
    was customisably built into PageMaker, which I have just given probably its last
    award in some magazine, along with all the modern equivalents. Something like
    this could feasibly have been built into ClearType, but only if the OS knows what
    its display system is at any given moment, and this seems to be something that
    Vista can't do, if I recall an earlier discussion? Can't do? Or won't do? \r\n\r\nThere
    is also a nice compromise: if you have a weight axis, or a discrete system of
    weights from light to bold with small increments between them, you can combine
    that with scaling and tracking to get a nice, primitive optical scaling system
    going that is easier to design than doing it right in the first place.\r\n\r\nBut
    why not do it right in the first place? \r\n\r\nFinally, I am beginning to wonder
    if hinting is really valuable at 1920x1200 resolution, versus brute force anti-aliasing.
    Once you have that resolution, it seems to me that the cost benefits of hinting
    are difficult to justify. Everyone is laughing at me for pretending that 1920x1200
    is any kind of a standard, but my view is, if someone as chronically impecunious
    as me can have one, then anyone can. I think you can get a 17-inch laptop from
    Dell with this screen for about $1100, which is not very much money for an entire
    desktop replacement computer system. \r\n\r\nI think we really are moving to a
    higher dpi count. But the transition can't be gracefully made for users if the
    OS doesn't know what it is displaying. If the OS has icons and text that by default
    look good at 1024x768, users will want to switch their high res LCDs down to 1024x768,
    with fatal results for legibility, because that's the only thing they know how
    to do. Whereas if the OS knows what it's displaying, it can make the appropriate
    scaling adjustments. Right?"
  created: '2006-04-04 19:51:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> my dpi count is higher on XP than Mac\r\n\r\nYou could vary your viewing
    distance in proportion to the relative ppi.\r\n(This time I'm not teasing. :-)\r\n\r\n>
    What I don\u2019t find is any marked difference in legibility\r\n\r\nI'll take
    you to mean <cite>readability</cite>, and offer the\r\naxiom that measuring it
    cannot be a DIY affair.\r\n\r\n> to obtain minimal distortion of the underlying
    forms for maximal legibility\r\n\r\nBut:\r\n1) Legibility comes more from size
    than \"minimal distortion\"; readabilily comes as much from extenders as from
    \"minimal distortion\".\r\n2) In terms of actual frequency in real text, ascenders
    far outweight descenders.\r\n3) The ascenders have less presence/character than
    the descenders, so they need more help.\r\n\r\nThose three things combined seem
    to make the <cite>standard</cite> scheme of giving the ascenders more room than
    the descenders (even at the cost of making the \"g\" -the only glyph actually
    affected- look a bit cramped) far preferable to Stone's scheme here. If the font
    isn't released yet (or maybe even if it is) I hope he fixes that.\r\n\r\n> what
    is your purpose in doing so if it is not to gain evenness of color with other
    sizes\r\n\r\nThere could be other reasons besides that. For example, our reading
    firmware might work better with darker (or actually lighter) relative color. Making
    everything have even color seems like a superficial goal. In fact I've come to
    believe that Even Color itself a sort of hobgoblin. Clearly there's such a thing
    as too much of it, and that should alert us to a complexity.\r\n\r\n> Something
    like this could feasibly have been built into ClearType\r\n\r\nCould it? What
    about the issue of needing to match the line-measure with print. Consider that
    the scale (and probably the flavor) of optical compensation is different in print
    versus onscreen.\r\n\r\n> I am beginning to wonder if hinting is really valuable
    at 1920x1200 resolution\r\n\r\nCertainly, the higher the res, the less relevant
    hinting becomes. But it's important to realize that raw resolution isn't what
    counts here; ppi (resolution divided by screen size) is what you should consider;
    and very hi-res screens also tend to be larger - so hinting still helps. Equally
    important I think is to address the needs of the present, as opposed to [only]
    designing for some anticipated broad-based improvement.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    one way to see how Quartz relies on subpixels less than CT is to convert the image
    to grayscale and observe the drop in crispness; in the case of Quartz the drop
    is negligible, which makes me think its use of subpixels is almost pointless.
    In the case of CT though the drop is pronounced.\r\n\r\nAnother interesting way
    to see the difference is to check a color historgram.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 21:59:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I am beginning to wonder if hinting is really valuable at 1920x1200 resolution,
    versus brute force anti-aliasing.</em>\r\n\r\ny-direction hinting is definitely
    valuable up to and, indeed, above such resolutions. The highest resolution screen
    display I've looked at was 200ppi, and even there you need to be able to manage
    alignment zones and consistency of horizontal stems.\r\n\r\nIs x-direction hinting
    valuable in such displays, when sub-pixel rendering is active? The initial tests
    we did on the CT fonts, indicated that we could get away with no x-direction stem
    hints at all for screen: where we needed them was for 300-600 dpi printer support.\r\n\r\n\r\nBill,
    can you prepare a screenshot comparison of CT and Quartz rendering using a common
    TTF on both systems, e.g. Georgia? It should be a serif face, since my analysis
    of the Quartz rendering of Cycles 5 indicates some greying out in the serifs.
    If you provide such a comparison, I'll do some subpixel enlargements so we can
    see what is going on.\r\n\r\nClearType doesn't do anything with PS fonts. PS fonts
    are rendered by Windows using the Adobe-provided Type 1 or CFF rasterisers.\r\n\r\n\r\nPS.
    I'm preparing a response to the discussion about spacing for screen."
  created: '2006-04-04 23:56:55'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'John, I will try to get what you want, but it may have to wait a day or so.
    It''s interesting that you could dispense with x-dir hints for screen but not
    for 300-600 dpi print. Adobe people have stated in the past that hinting of PS
    is desirable even at 2400 dpi resolution. Is that partly because of the 1000 unit
    limit of traditional PS? '
  created: '2006-04-05 06:28:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, has OSX text rendering improved since\r\nthe Panther version of the
    OS? If not then this\r\nhttp://typographi.com/000739.php _\r\nmight be potentially
    interesting, especially this comparison:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/other/aa-compare2.gif
    _\r\nThe top is Times on OSX-Panther, the bottom on WinXP.\r\n(Note: trying to
    equalize the gammas -in a somewhat brutish way, by\r\nchanging the brightness
    of each sample by 6%- has caused the color\r\nfringeing to get exagerated, especially
    in the Windows sample.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-05 15:22:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Adobe people have stated in the past that hinting of PS is desirable
    even at 2400 dpi resolution.</em>\r\n\r\nDid they say it was desirable, or did
    they just say that it was noticeable. I only heard the latter, from David Lemon
    and Fred Brady. Obviously this depended on the type size, but the effect of hinting
    would be detectable even at such high resolutions, i.e. a hinted glyph would render
    slightly differently from an unhinted glyph. Whether the effect was significant
    enough to be desirable is a different question. I can imagine situations in which
    it would actually be undesirable.\r\n\r\nRemember also that we're talking here
    about PS font, PS hints and PS rips, and what PS rips do with hints is a black
    art."
  created: '2006-04-05 19:34:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "As Bill noted a couple of days ago, spacing is properly size-specific. Constantia
    is spaced for true 11-12pt, since these are the sizes at which it seemed to me
    there was most likely to be crossover use between screen and print. [I say 'true'
    because nominal type sizes on screen vary so much.] But it seems to me now that
    a lot of onscreen text I see is actually smaller than 11pt, although this depends
    very much on how, for instance, individual web pages define text size and how
    my browser handles them and which of my two screens I am looking at. It is because
    of this, that I now think I would make the default spacing for a screen font slightly
    looser than I did for Constantia.\r\n\r\nThinking about this some more, over the
    past few days, it struck me that ppem-specific subpixel tracking would resolve
    this in a tidy way, and allow for automated size-specific spacing on screen. The
    vertical grid resolution is practically too small for many of the refinements
    of size-specific type that we value in press typography (e.g. gradual weight and
    x-height increase), but horizontal spacing adjustment is well within the bounds
    of improvement made possible by ClearType. I can imagine this being controlled
    at the individual font level by a new 'trak' table, that would indicate at what
    ppem sizes what amount of positive or negative tracking should be applied. Fonts
    without the new table could still benefit from algorithmic tracking at the smaller
    sizes.\r\n\r\nIn the examples below, I have gradually increased tracking as size
    decreases, using units of 64ths of a pixel. The 9pt specimen is tracked +10/64.
    The 8pt specimen is tracked +16/64. The 7pt specimen is tracked +24/64. These
    values are not necessarily optimal, but they give you an idea of the general improvement
    in looser spacing as the type gets smaller.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ConsTrak.gif]"
  created: '2006-04-05 19:41:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: When I find some time later today or tomorrow, I'll prepare another comparison,
    showing tracked and untracked spacing side-by-side.
  created: '2006-04-05 19:44:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> ppem-specific subpixel tracking\r\n\r\nBut wouldn't that throw off line
    measure matching with print?\r\nUnless it was a deliberate and disableable feature
    within the\r\ntypesetting app (as opposed to a behind-the-scene OS thing).\r\n\r\nIn
    any case, those samples are certainly convincing.\r\n\r\n> The vertical grid resolution
    is practically too small\r\n\r\nFor sizes that are close, yes. But it would be
    possible\r\nand good to have let's a say a difference of 1 pixel in the\r\nx-height
    between the high teen PPEMs and the low teens.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-05 21:23:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>But wouldn\u2019t that throw off line measure matching with print?</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    but applications attempting WYSIWYG in terms of screen preview and print already
    work with compatible widths. I'm thinking in terms of applications like web browsers,
    email clients, e-book readers, etc. in which text is primarily read onscreen and
    for which users do not expect linebreaks to match when printed. If someone is
    looking at text onscreen as a preview for print, then obviously the print condition
    of the text is more important than the screen condition. But if someone is <em>reading</em>
    text onscreen then I'm sure you'll agree that optimising that experience is most
    important.\r\n\r\n<em>But it would be possible and good to have let\u2019s a say
    a difference of 1 pixel in the x-height between the high teen PPEMs and the low
    teens.</em>\r\n\r\nThe problem isn't about a change in relative x-height per se,
    but the distortion of the letters at very small sizes if you pop up the x-height.
    Consider that nominal 6pt text in my example above, which is a 10ppem bitmap on
    my Dell screen. The x-height is 5 pixels. The cap height and ascender height are
    both 7 pixels. My point about the crudeness of the pixel grid at small sizes not
    permitting optical refinements of the kind we make for print is this: increasing
    the x-height by one pixel at this size is a 20% increase in the vertical to horizontal
    proportion of the x-height letters. At that point, are you making an optically
    enlarged x-height or creating a new, condensed design?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ConsX.gif]\r\n\r\n[On
    the left is nominal 6pt Constantia, and on the right is a manually created version
    with a taller x-height. I've deliberately avoided any letters with diagonal strokes
    as being too hard to fake in this way.]\r\n\r\nAn optical master for small sizes
    onscreen should involve horizontal as well as vertical increase in the x-height,
    not necessarily proportionally, but enough to preserve the character of the typeface.
    One way to do this, obviously, is to create a separate design for small sizes.
    Another way would be to employ something like the glyph width adjustment algorithm
    used in Hz, which increases the width of letters without increasing stem weights.
    The latter seems to me to have a lot of potential for small text onscreen."
  created: '2006-04-06 00:45:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Previously forgotten:\r\n> subpixel tracking\r\n\r\nNow this seems like an
    actually useful application\r\nof subpixel positioning; for this it might actually
    be\r\nworthwhile sacrificing glyph rendering consistency.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m
    sure you\u2019ll agree that optimising that experience is most important.\r\n\r\nTotally.\r\n(With
    a lesson learned here being the fallacy of WYSIWYG.)\r\n\r\n> the distortion of
    the letters at very small sizes if you pop up the x-height.\r\n\r\nUnless you
    go for what I described earlier in this thread*:\r\nincrease the width of the
    letters (I mean their black bodies,\r\nnot just their set widths) along with the
    x-height. If you're\r\ngiving up the line measure correspondence with print, why\r\nnot
    go all the way and make things even more readable?\r\n\r\n* Which you also mention
    just now.\r\n\r\n> One way to do this ...\r\n> Another way ...\r\n\r\nAnd a third
    way, which avoids the inelegance of the first way and the... non-existence of
    the second :-) would be to simply use [super]hinting!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-06 02:50:45'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>would be to simply use [super]hinting!</em>\r\n\r\nSince this is the
    CT Design Guide thread, I'm limiting options to those that will work with CT.
    The limits on x-direction instructions applied by the CT rendered discount the
    kind of superhinting you suggest. Ironically, these limits are there because of
    the existence of superhinted fonts for b/w rendering than the effect those instructions
    have in a CT environment. This is the problem with superhinting: it is output
    specific, and if you change the output device you can easily end up with something
    that looks really bad.\r\n\r\nIt seems to me, though, that this simply means that
    many elements of the existing x-direction instruction set cannot be supported
    in ClearType, but it should be possible to develop a ClearType-specific set of
    x-direction instructions, which would allow more control of x-direction rendering
    in future versions of ClearType. I don't know if the MS ART folk have considered
    this."
  created: '2006-04-06 07:07:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The limits on x-direction instructions\r\n\r\nFinally, somebody spills
    the beans. Thank you.\r\nWhat exactly are these limits? And specifically\r\nhere,
    do they in fact preclude simply making a\r\nglyph at a certain PPEM wider? I mean
    wider than\r\nthe upper rounding of the outline at that size.\r\nIf this is possible
    in CT, then you can vary not\r\njust the x-height, but the width to accomodate
    a\r\ngreater x-height.\r\n\r\n> these limits are there because of the existence
    of superhinted fonts for b/w\r\n\r\nI'm not sure I understand this. Are you saying
    that CT limits\r\nsuperhinting simply to be different than what was there before?\r\n\r\n>
    This is the problem with superhinting\r\n\r\nFunny how it was Perfect the last
    time around...\r\nAnyway. Are these \"backfires\" limited to CT, or\r\nare there
    robustness problems with the old 1-bit\r\nfonts that I'm not aware of?\r\n\r\n>
    it should be possible to ...\r\n\r\nJust like how y-direction AA was disabled
    at first\r\nbut will be enabled in Vista... Leaving room to grow?\r\nOr maybe
    just changing one's minds.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-06 13:04:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Finally, somebody spills the beans.</em>\r\n\r\nHardly, this has been
    discussed numerous times in various places ever since ClearType first shipped.\r\n\r\n<em>specifically
    here, do they in fact preclude simply making a glyph at a certain PPEM wider</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    are you using the word 'simply' in this context? There are multiple strategies
    for making a glyph wider, but one of the easiest and most common is a mid-delta
    affecting the position of a stem. That won't work in ClearType. Another approach
    is to hint counters and other white space areas as stems and apply distance controls.
    This might work. I'll experiment. Serious hinting experts like Vincent Connare
    or David Berlow might be able to suggest additional strategies.\r\n\r\n<em>Are
    you saying that CT limits superhinting simply to be different than what was there
    before?</em>\r\n\r\nNo. Superhinting is output-specific, so if a font has been
    superhinted to make highly readanle b/w bitmaps, the techniques used to do that
    will likely involve considerable distortion to the outline at specific ppem size.
    That is what 'superhinting' is: outline distortion aimed at achieving a specific
    result <em>in a specific rendering technology.</em> So if you put those fonts
    in a different rendering environment, say one in which the outline is supersampled
    to a 16 unit grid as in the first stage of ClearType rendering, you have the question
    of how to interpret instructions that distort the outline for a much cruder rendering
    environment. In ClearType supersampling the last thing you want to deal with is
    an outline distorted in the x-direction for b/w rendering: you want a undistorted
    outline in order to obtain letterform fidelity in the supersampling, not weird
    bumps and tucks from b/w delta hinting.\r\n\r\nThis problem is exacerbated by
    the fact that different hinters use different strategies, so you can't anticipate
    what instructions have been used to achieve particular b/w bitmap results. Which
    means you cannot algorithmically correct for them. So the only safe way to render
    older fonts within ClearType is to ignore the subset of x-direction instructions
    that would cause problems.\r\n\r\n<em>Just like how y-direction AA was disabled
    at first but will be enabled in Vista</em>\r\n\r\nIt wasn't disabled. Y-direction
    AA for ClearType wasn't implemented, I believe, until sometime in 2003 (by Beat
    Stamm). The transition from greyscale to colour antialiasing along a curve, from
    a horizontal section to a vertical section, as in the illustration below, is not
    a trivial thing. Also, y-direction AA needs to be size specific: you don't want
    it at text sizes because it reduces the contrast, especially on thin strokes.
    So implementation also required definition of a new gasp table version (which
    unfortunately has not be published yet, because of the freeze on OT spec changes
    while the MPEG standard process was being completed).\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yAAhCT.gif]"
  created: '2006-04-07 02:36:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> this has been discussed numerous times\r\n\r\nNot anywhere I've been (and
    I'm not exactly a recluse).\r\nIn fact in this thread I asked at least three times
    before\r\ngetting the \"right\" answer.\r\n\r\n> This might work. I\u2019ll experiment.\r\n\r\nGreat,
    thanks. Fingers crossed.\r\nAnd David, Vincent: any other ideas?\r\n\r\n> if you
    put those fonts in a different rendering environment ...\r\n> you have the question
    of how to interpret instructions\r\n\r\nBut isn't there a mechanism in place to
    distinguish\r\nif a hint is for 1-bit, grayscale, or CT? I thought I read\r\nVincent
    say that, but I could have misunderstood.\r\n\r\nIf there isn't, it seems to me
    that a good way to avoid\r\nrendering the funky outlines of the old fonts while
    still\r\nallowing the new fonts to push CT further would be to add\r\na simple
    binary flag that tells the rendered whether to\r\nignore the superhinting or not.\r\n\r\n>
    Y-direction AA for ClearType wasn\u2019t implemented, I believe, until sometime
    in 2003\r\n\r\nMaybe I got the terms wrong (again). I meant the greater smoothness\r\nin
    the vertical axis that we don't have yet, but will come with Vista.\r\nI guess
    you're saying that that wasn't put in from the get-go because\r\nthe code/standard
    was not ready in time?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-07 14:55:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'It wasn''t a question of the code/standard not being ready in time for the
    first ClearType implementation: as far as I know, it wasn''t part of the spec
    at all at that stage. It is a refinement that was developed later.'
  created: '2006-04-07 19:07:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> it wasn\u2019t part of the spec at all at that stage.\r\n\r\nDo you (or
    anybody) know why not?\r\nI mean, even if it wasn't an obvious thing to include,
    people\r\nmust have noticed the jaggies on the horizontal parts of curves.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-07 19:24:03'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hrant, remember that CT was designed specifically around the goal of increasing
    readability onscreen, i.e. with a focus on rendering of typical text sizes. As
    I wrote above, one doesn't want y-direction greyscale antialiasing at text sizes,
    because it reduces contrast on thin stems producing, in your terms, bad notan.
    Combining Y-direction AA with x-direction CT is a development for display sizes.
    I may well have been on someone's radar during the development of the first version
    of CT, but it wasn't within the scope of what they were trying to achieve at that
    point. Remember that the group that developed CT were moving, at that stage, from
    a research group to a product group, from developing a new technology to actually
    shipping something. Since their research had been focused on readability, it isn't
    surprising that their first product didn't address rendering for display sizes.
  created: '2006-04-07 23:58:51'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "The discussion has moved on but here is part 1 of the requested screen shots
    - Mac, AA set to light, Georgia.ttf from XP, and I have no idea what it is going
    to match any longer. Next I'll try to match this with XP. Does anybody need Mac
    AA set to anything other than light?\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Picture
    9.png]"
  created: '2006-04-08 04:05:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Does anybody need Mac AA set to anything other than light?\r\n\r\nIs there
    an Ultralight?  :-/\r\nThat samples looks quite dark on Windows, because\r\nof
    the gamma difference. For the umpteenth time.\r\n\r\nBut let me see what I can
    do.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-08 04:16:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Not much we can do about the gamma difference, other than documenting it.
    \r\n\r\nTime now to do some serious comparison, followed by some close-up analysis
    of what is happening at the subpixel level. Thanks to Bill for preparing the three
    Mac samples. Thanks to the Punchcut folk for providing the storage and bandwidth
    :)\r\n\r\nImages 1-3: Mac OS X Quartz rendering, with strong, medium and light
    antialiasing. The medium setting is apparently what Apple recommend for LCD screens.
    [Note: the top of the light sample is cropped too tight.]\r\n\r\nImage 4: Acrobat
    CoolType rendering in Windows Acrobat 7.05\r\n\r\nImage 5: ClearType rendering
    in Windows XP. This is as I have CT tuned on my Dell system; a more thorough test
    would involve different kinds of CT tuning.\r\n\r\nImage 6: ClearType rendering
    with subpixel positioning.\r\n\r\nI've matched ppem height and linespacing; note
    that there is a slight set width difference between the different renderings.
    You can see this in the first, side-by-side comparison graphic. Each column is
    85 pixels wide; notice the variation in letter cropping on the right side of each
    column.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/A Side-by-side.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1
    Mac AA Strong.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2 Mac AA Medium.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3
    Mac AA Light.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4 Acrobat CoolType.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/5
    WinXP CT.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/6 Win Subpixel CT.png]"
  created: '2006-04-08 06:55:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, I'm a bit confused. Please look back to your first (in-thread) sample,\r\nthe
    one in your post of 1 April, 2006 - 12:39am, and correct me if I'm wrong:\r\n1)
    It exhibits y-AA (like we'll see in Vista).\r\n2) It's text size.\r\nSo I'm not
    getting this \"display-only\" business.\r\n\r\nBill, first let me ask something:\r\nYour
    previous Cycles sample didn't exhibit subpixel positioning, but this Georgia one
    does (look at any doubled letter to see). How could that happen? It can't be the
    font. I might guess that you used different apps to render the texts, but isn't
    subpixel positioning controlled by the OS?!\r\n\r\nAnyway, I've prepared two collages.
    In each collage there are four panels: Quartz, Photoshop (\"Smooth\" AA), Windows-XP
    ClearType, and a custom one (Georgette: Georgia with AA turned on for all PPEMs)
    rendered in Windows-XP sans CT (the point being to try to come close to what a
    hand-made gs bitmap font with these specs might look like). In the first image
    no gamma correction was done (except for the Georgette setting, in order to prevent
    wash-outs). In the second image I lightened the Quartz and darkened the rest by
    equal proportions: using Levels, I made the midpoint of the former 1.25 and the
    midpoint of the latter 0.8. The CT might seem darker than the Quartz, but I checked
    the histograms and they're overall average levels are very close - the effect
    might be due to CT having darker stems. Although this gamma correction makes each
    sample less-than-optimal, it does so pretty much equally and allows for a better
    comparison; outside of having the images in front of you on both platforms and
    comparing them side-by-side, there's no other way to compare fairly.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/x4_1.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/x4_2.gif]\r\n\r\nOh,
    and the vertical all-caps text is Mana-13 Bold.  :-)\r\n\r\nThe way I see it,
    the CT is superior to the Quartz sample in two ways:\r\n1) Hinting. Compare the
    tops of the x-heights (quite an important region).\r\n2) Better/greater use of
    subpixels, resulting in darker bodies = crisper text.\r\n\r\nIn fact, to me, Quartz
    is only moderately better than the fuzzy Photoshop stuff.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-08 07:11:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Huh, I guess we were both working furiously on our samples at the same time!
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nAbout the first part of my previous post: forget it. Now I see that\r\nVista
    doesn't use y-AA for \"text\" sizes after all. It's just that I clearly\r\nremember
    a wonderful procession of cap \"S\"es you put up a while\r\nback that showed y-AA
    for all sizes. And I thought they ALL looked\r\nreally nice. I simply don't get
    why it has to be display-only.\r\n\r\n> Not much we can do about the gamma difference\r\n\r\nAs
    I've tried to show, I think we actually can.\r\nAnd I'll do it right now for your
    Quartz-Medium\r\nsetting, since that's the \"recommended\" one.\r\n\r\n> there
    is a slight set width difference between the different renderings. \r\n\r\nYes,
    I had that problem too. In fact it seems to infest the\r\nactual PPEM as well...
    Although only by about half a pixel.\r\n\r\nBTW, the CoolType is a welcome addition.
    Let me take a closer look at it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-08 07:23:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "And some close-up analysis of the rendering. On the left, the averaged pixel
    tint. On the right, the actual subpixel rendering.\r\n\r\nThe key to the examples
    is as in the previous post:\r\n\r\nImages 1-3: Mac OS X Quartz rendering, with
    strong, medium and light antialiasing. The medium setting is apparently what Apple
    recommend for LCD screens. [Note: the top of the light sample is cropped too tight.]\r\n\r\nImage
    4: Acrobat CoolType rendering in Windows Acrobat 7.05\r\n\r\nImage 5: ClearType
    rendering in Windows XP. This is as I have CT tuned on my Dell system; a more
    thorough test would involve different kinds of CT tuning.\r\n\r\nImage 6: ClearType
    rendering with subpixel positioning.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1aps.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/2aps.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/3aps.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/4aps.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/5aps.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/6aps.png]"
  created: '2006-04-08 07:29:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, I\u2019m a bit confused. Please look back to your first (in-thread)
    sample, the one in your post of 1 April, 2006 - 12:39am, and correct me if I\u2019m
    wrong:\r\n1) It exhibits y-AA (like we\u2019ll see in Vista).\r\n2) It\u2019s
    text size.\r\nSo I\u2019m not getting this \u201Cdisplay-only\u201D business.</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    you are confused, or maybe colour blind :)\r\n\r\nThere is no y-direction AA in
    that sample. Here is a blow-up:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sample1close.png]\r\n_\r\n\r\nAs
    you can see, there is no y-direction antialiasing at all."
  created: '2006-04-08 07:33:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, why do you think Bill's Cycles sample didn't exhibit subpixel positioning?\r\nAnd
    why doesn't Windows-XP? (Pardon me if you've answered this in the past.)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nOK,
    here's the 5/4-from-each-end gamma-corrected collage from John's samples:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/x2.gif]\r\n\r\nBTW,
    CoolType (which looks better than I ever remember seeing it; better than Quartz,
    although still not as dark/crisp as CT; and unusually narrow for some reason)
    seems to be using some hinting, no?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-08 07:43:47'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It\u2019s just that I clearly remember a wonderful procession of cap
    \u201CS\u201Des you put up a while back that showed y-AA for all sizes. And I
    thought they ALL looked really nice.</em>\r\n\r\nI can't remember what sizes I
    showed in that progression, but at the smallest sizes the y-direction AA is suppressed.
    Here is a broad progression (thank goodness for the new image scrollbars on Typophile).
    Take a close look at how the y-direction smoothing is gradually applied as the
    size increases. In the smallest sizes it isn't present at all.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ConstSprog.png]\r\n\r\nWhy?
    Because greyscale antialiasing of a single pixel stem reduces the contrast. You
    know this, and you also know that reducing contrast reduces readability (it one
    of the few things that has been proven conclusively in empirical testing). Take
    a look at my blow-up of the subpixel rendering of the Georgia lowercase a in CoolType:
    see how pale the hairline stroke in the top of the counter has become because
    of Adobe's y-direction smoothing at all sizes? That is why one doesn't want such
    smoothing for text sizes.\r\n\r\n<em>I simply don\u2019t get why it has to be
    display-only.</em>\r\n\r\nIt doesn't have to be display-only. It is design specific
    and up to the font developer. This is what the new gasp table format is for: it
    allows the font maker to determine at what size y-direction antialiasing kicks
    in. So if you wanted to you could apply it at all sizes. But <em>you</em> wouldn't
    do that, because you care about notan. :)"
  created: '2006-04-08 07:50:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, why do you think Bill\u2019s Cycles sample didn\u2019t exhibit
    subpixel positioning?</em>\r\n\r\nNo idea, I'm largely ignorant about the Max
    rendering. Could it be because Cycles is a PostScript font while Georgia, obviously,
    is TrueType?\r\n\r\n<em>And why doesn\u2019t Windows-XP? (Pardon me if you\u2019ve
    answered this in the past.)</em>\r\n\r\nThe Microsoft ART team have been pretty
    cautious in the transition from the b/w and greyscale rendering to ClearType,
    doing lots of testing along the way. They made a deliberate decision not to implement
    subpixel positioning in either the Reader or in the Windows XP version of ClearType.
    I think there may have been some reflow concerns, perhaps from other groups within
    MS, which encouraged them to stick to full pixel positioning. But I suspect they
    simply wanted to spend more time testing the subpixel positioning, optimising
    the colour filtering for it, etc. I'm actually reassured by how cautiously ClearType
    has been implemented. To my knowledge, MS are the only people rigorously testing
    their screen readability and not making assumptions about what is best."
  created: '2006-04-08 08:00:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> greyscale antialiasing of a single pixel stem reduces the contrast.\r\n\r\nBut
    can't hinting alleviate that?\r\n\r\n> up to the font developer.\r\n\r\nCool.
    In the TrueType spirit.\r\n\r\n> I\u2019m actually reassured by how cautiously
    ClearType has been implemented.\r\n\r\nIt's been cautious in terms of positioning,
    but in terms of leveraging\r\nthe color (hence sharpness) of subpixels it's by
    far the most aggressive.\r\n\r\n> MS are the only people rigorously testing their
    screen readability\r\n\r\nIndeed - kudos to them.\r\nNow if Kevin could just get
    his test subjects deeply immersed...  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-08 08:11:29'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "John wrote:\r\n<cite>ClearType doesn\u2019t do anything with PS fonts. PS
    fonts are rendered by Windows using the Adobe-provided Type 1 or CFF rasterisers.</cite>\r\n\r\nUrm.
    Sort of true. In Vista, ClearType running under Avalon (Windows Presentation Foundation)
    works with CFF as well as TrueType, because the CFF rasterizer has been carefully
    integrated with ClearType.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-04-08 08:37:18'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "\"John, why do you think Bill\u2019s Cycles sample didn\u2019t exhibit subpixel
    positioning?\r\n\r\nNo idea, I\u2019m largely ignorant about the Max rendering.
    Could it be because Cycles is a PostScript font while Georgia, obviously, is TrueType?\"\r\n\r\nSo
    Quartz is not using either TT or PS hinting (or so 'tis said) yet PS is not getting
    s-p'd while TT is? ? ? \r\n\r\nAs to evaluating these comparisons: I'm trying
    to look only at the unenlarged six together, trying to figure out which is actually
    better looking to me subjectively. I think they all look good except Mac med and
    Strong, but CT2 looks best. However, to my eyes, only Mac presents the g properly,
    i.e. without the appearance of a break. How can that be? It seems to be one advantage
    of the brute force approach (are there others?), or perhaps it's just a decision
    by the Georgia hinters I would argue with--strongly. (However, I also see the
    same - to me - distracting effect in Camb and Const.) I also have the feeling
    that Apple's medium looks better to me on a lower DPI screen (i.e. 1920x1200x24\"),
    while light seems perceptibly better on a higher DPI screen (i.e. 1920x2300x15\"). "
  created: '2006-04-08 08:49:41'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I should have started, and defined the more basic stuff then? : CT rounds
    in the Y dimension to integer values and rasterizes in color. A new Gasp table
    allows, in addition to the existin' gaspabilities, the ability to separately control
    use of y color. CT recons in X in sub pixel values but doesn't round\u2020, rasterizing
    X in color, always. Correct so far?\r\n\r\nThe steady stream of wisdom from MS
    Typography has been that regularly, or well-hinted TT fonts will work fine in
    the CT environment, (sans post IUP deltas)*. \r\n\r\n*IUP is a hint, you look
    it up in definition and usage, it'll make total sense. These (post IUP deltas),
    were common in early hinted TT, and spread monstrously as the technology was employed
    at the lower levels of the production quality spectrum to make bitmaps from outlines
    on-the-fly crappily. I raise this issue, because system quality hinted TT , (as
    we called it), for Aliased or Antialiased use (sans post IUP deltas) and Hrants
    \"super hinted font\" are, like Sir Charles and the Phantom, one and the same.
    \r\n\r\n\u2020if a width value is 33.333 pixels, it rounds to 33.3 and keeps or
    tosses the .033?\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-08 19:08:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Tom, thanks for the information about ClearType and CFF in Avalon; I wasn't
    aware of that, or hadn't registered it. Anyone got any screenshots of CFF fonts
    in Avalon. It would be especially nice to compare TT and CFF versions of the same
    fonts, to see how ClearType handles the different outline and hint data.
  created: '2006-04-08 22:38:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>So Quartz is not using either TT or PS hinting (or so \u2018tis
    said) yet PS is not getting s-p\u2019d while TT is? ? ?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know,
    it was just a suggestion. You would have to ask someone at Apple for clarification.
    But so far as I know, Apple is still using the Adobe-provided PS rasteriser, so
    if they are providing subpixel rendering for PS fonts they may be doing it after-the-fact,
    i.e. after initial rasterisation by the PS rasteriser. [This would be similar
    to what hardware AA is presumably doing: applying smoothing on top of whatever
    the dedicated font rasteriser is producing.]\r\n\r\nAnyway, this is mainly guesswork,
    and some solid information would be welcome."
  created: '2006-04-08 22:41:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It\u2019s been cautious in terms of positioning, but in terms of leveraging
    the color (hence sharpness) of subpixels it\u2019s by far the most aggressive.</em>\r\n\r\nThe
    gradual implementation is what has been cautious, i.e. how different versions
    of ClearType have gradually extended the subpixel rendering model in released
    products, accompanied by testing. Regarding the 'aggressive' use of colour, don't
    forget that even the first public version of ClearType was the result of a lengthy
    R&D process, and it is precisely the colour-filtering aspct of ClearType that
    is most innovative (and which Microsoft have patented). The CoolType and Quartz
    renderings look pretty cobbled-together in comparison, and also lack the focus
    (pun intentional) of Microsoft's readability interest. Making type look nice and
    smooth is not the same thing as making it readable."
  created: '2006-04-08 22:50:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Making type look nice and smooth is not the same thing as making it readable.\r\n\r\nYou
    took the words right out of my mouth!\r\n\r\nBut I would be far less dismissive
    of CoolType than Quartz.\r\nThe former has none of the vertical haziness of the
    latter,\r\nplus when you try my convert-to-grayscale trick, the large\r\ndrop
    in quality (like CT, but quite unlike Quartz) seems to\r\nindicate a serious reliance
    on the subpixel. Furthermore, I'm\r\nnot so sure that CT's eschewing of y-AA (something
    CoolType\r\ndoesn't seem to sacrifice - although I understood your point\r\nabout
    the necessary firmness of horizontal blacks) is in fact\r\nabsolutely always a
    good thing... I'm still wondering: isn't\r\nthat something hinting could help
    unlock?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-08 23:04:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I\u2019m still wondering: isn\u2019t that something hinting could help
    unlock?</em>\r\n\r\nIn what way? You have a horizontal stem. You have a non-divisible
    pixel in the y-direction (presuming typical horizontal RGB array). At small sizes,
    you only have the one pixel height to represent that stem. Making the pixels that
    make up that stem anything other than black is a reduction in contrast. Look at
    that CoolType lowercase a: the contrast in the hairline on the bowl is completely
    shot, the grey is less than 50%. In the Quartz examples, event the flatter portion
    at the top of the letter is cut through, despite grabbing up to three pixels of
    height to render the stem in the 'strong' version. What are you hoping that hinting
    will improve in this? Making the stem darker? Why not just make it black? Adding
    a second layer of grey pixels around the outside of the letterform? That's what
    Quartz is doing, and the result is superfuzz, with even flat serifs being rendered
    by 2-3 pixels in height, creating a fuzzy grey zone along the x-height and baseline."
  created: '2006-04-08 23:26:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Further to what I just wrote:\r\n\r\nHrant, the issue of y-direction greyscale
    antialiasing at small sizes in ClearType is exactly the same as the issue of greyscale
    antialiasing at small sizes vs. b/w bitmaps. You don't turn on greyscale antialiasing
    until main stems pop to 2 pixels, and then you make sure that any thin stems that
    are still rendering at 1 pixel are gridfitted. But you lose contrast on thin curves
    even in a font that has been as well-optimised and hinted for such environments
    as Georgia:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Geoegraa.gif]\r\n_\r\n\r\nBlack
    and white, single-bit bitmaps still out perform all other screen rendering technologies
    for small text in readability studies, even ClearType. ClearType puts back most
    of the contrast in the intermediate sizes that is lost with greyscale antialiasing.
    This is probably ClearType's single biggest contribution to screen readability,
    especially since increasing screen resolution means that those intermediate ppem
    sizes (approx. 17-25) are now rendering typical text sizes such in the nominal
    9-12pt range:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Geoect.gif]\r\n_\r\n\r\nIt's
    the notan, stupid. :)"
  created: '2006-04-08 23:33:28'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "\"Black and white, single-bit bitmaps still out perform all other screen
    rendering technologies for small text in readability studies, even ClearType.
    ClearType puts back most of the contrast in the intermediate sizes that is lost
    with greyscale antialiasing...probably ClearType\u2019s single biggest contribution
    to screen readability\"\r\n\r\nI can accept this as being generally true, but
    if it is I am wondering why CT1/2 and Cooltype render the middle part of g in
    Georgia, Const and Camb too light, while Quartz renders them more like the ideal
    b/w bitmap. What I am more generally trying to discern is this: can it be accepted
    that each anti-aliasing system may do some things better than the others? Even
    if it is generally conceded that CT2 probably does more things better than the
    others? I suspect we are looking at this too simplistically. Also I worry that
    the thread is turning into an AA-evaluation thread. Though that's quite interesting,
    it's not informatively dealing with the issues that Berlow started the thread
    to bring up. "
  created: '2006-04-09 13:15:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I totally agree that the original topic is being unfortunately sidelined.
    A couple of times I've been tempted to spin off another thread, but have been
    expecting this side-topic to die off - except it hasn't, and might not for a while
    with John's recent post requiring a concerted countering; plus it takes some work
    doing a spin-off elegantly. But since David is clearly still pursuing his original
    line of querry, I think it's for the best. But please give me until tomorrow.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-09 18:53:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill, you are talking about the weight of the horizontal stroke across the
    top of the lower bowl of the g, yes? This appears light in the Georgia comparisons
    for ClearType and CoolType because it has been hinted to be only one pixel deep
    at the sizes shown. All three of these rendering systems respect y-direction hinting;
    Quartz doesn't and allows this stroke to be up to three (grey) pixels deep. In
    the strong Quartz example, the space between the two bowls is completely lost.\r\n\r\nThe
    key to the enlargements below is as in the previous post:\r\n\r\nImages 1-3: Mac
    OS X Quartz rendering, with strong, medium and light antialiasing. The medium
    setting is apparently what Apple recommend for LCD screens. [Note: the top of
    the light sample is cropped too tight.]\r\n\r\nImage 4: Acrobat CoolType rendering
    in Windows Acrobat 7.05\r\n\r\nImage 5: ClearType rendering in Windows XP. This
    is as I have CT tuned on my Dell system; a more thorough test would involve different
    kinds of CT tuning.\r\n\r\nImage 6: ClearType rendering with subpixel positioning.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Geog12.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Geog34.png]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Geog56.png]\r\n_\r\n\r\nWhat
    you see in these images is the difference between darkness produced by heaviness
    in the Quartz rendering, and darkness in pixel contrast in the ClearType rendering.
    The CoolType rendering has fairly decent contrast in the horizontal stroke, but
    becomes weak in the vertical join to the upper bowl."
  created: '2006-04-09 23:50:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The horizontal stroke at the top of the lower bowl of the lowercase g is
    a problem area for screen type, because the ductus pattern of the letter usually
    means that this stroke is heavier than other horizontal stems, and often close
    in weight to vertical stems. This means that at transitional ppem sizes, where
    vertical stems are jumping to two pixels and horizontal stems are remaining at
    one pixel (usually around the 17-19 ppem size for typical text faces), this stroke
    will either appear too dark (if it jumps to two pixels) or two light (if it remains
    at one pixel). In b/w and greyscale rendering, this problem can be largely hidden,
    since both horizontal and vertical stems are rendered to whole pixels and my employ
    shades of grey. But in subpixel rendering, the problem becomes acute, because
    the vertical stems will actually be rendering to intermediate weights between
    one and two pixels, while that stroke of the g must either remain at one or jump
    to two.:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Consgprog.gif]\r\n_\r\n\r\nObviously,
    in a more monoline design, this kind of problem can be avoided.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 00:03:27'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "OK, that's very helpful - to me, at least. So is the superior (to me) Quartz
    rendering of the g for the screen simply to be considered a positive artefact
    of an inferior system, or is it to be considered as deliberate philosophical difference
    with some defensible rationale? Furthermore, the problem could be avoided in CT2
    by hinting, if the hinter so chose, right? It seems to me that in this case the
    hinter may have got carried away, and done what could be done rather than what
    should be done. In other words, there may be no one right way to hint certain
    characters. \r\n\r\nOne thing that interests me is that the hinting of all the
    other elements of the g seems to be so superior in the CT2 enlarged example, yet
    that does not seem to be obvious in the unenlarged examples. I guess I better
    have another look!"
  created: '2006-04-10 00:55:59'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, note that my last visual, the progression of CT-rendered g, is a different
    font from the enlarged g images above, which are Georgia enlarged from the previous
    comparison images.\r\n\r\n<em>So is the superior (to me) Quartz rendering of the
    g for the screen simply to be considered a positive artefact of an inferior system,
    or is it to be considered as deliberate philosophical difference with some defensible
    rationale?</em>\r\n\r\nAre you talking just about the middle horizontal stroke,
    or about the whole letter. I think the whole letter looks like a fuzzy mess in
    all three Quartz renderings. But if you look just at that middle stroke, then
    I think an argument could be made in favour of exceptional greyscale antialiasing
    in the y direction to improve two-pixel rendering of such strokes, i.e. of horizontal
    strokes that jump to two pixels at smaller sizes than other horizontal. But I
    think it needs to be exceptional, because I don't want greyscale antialiasing
    being applied to single pixel stems, because that reduces the contrast. Apple
    seem to be simply ignoring all hints and letting the colour and grey fall where
    they will at all sizes. So I think you have to say that any nice bit is 'a positive
    artefact of an inferior system'. If you don't like losing x-direction hints in
    ClearType, I presume you are not in favour of losing all the hints in all directions
    in Quartz.\r\n\r\nIn the Vista version of ClearType, you could indeed hint for
    greyscale antialiasing of this stroke, but it would be unexceptional, because
    you would have to set the gasp table to allow y-direction antialiasing at all
    the sizes you wanted to render this part of the g in that way, and so all other
    horizontal stems would be affected.\r\n\r\nGeorgia, of course, at the size shown
    above, was hinted for b/w rendering, which explains why the g is hinted as it
    is. My last example is Constantia, hinted for CT but without y-direction antialiasing
    turned on in that sample (a quickly made grab from inside the FontLab hint preview).
    Here is the same showing the y-direction antialiasing kicking in at 26 ppem:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ConsgprogYAA.gif]\r\n\r\n_\r\n\r\nNote
    that the horizontal stems are still contrained by their hints, so you don't get
    the wandering double- and triple-runs of grey pixels on every hairline as in the
    Quartz rendering, but you gradually see the effect of the y-direction antialiasing
    along the curves."
  created: '2006-04-10 03:11:43'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Ah, yes, <em>here</em> the Const g looks very good, although I would like
    to see it in context, and though that showing brings up a lot of other issues.
    But still, that is very impressive. I was just talking about the middle stroke
    of the g, as that was what stood out for me as the most distracting defect in
    the previous CT1/2 and Cooltype showings. The contrast is excellent here.\r\n\r\nOur
    exmination seems to reveal that the Quartz method is too fuzzy in comparison to
    the others, but on the other hand what strikes me is how good it looks given that
    there is no use of hinting whatever. It doesn't seem fair! \r\n\r\nAnd that leads
    to another question. Judged by the simple criteria of sharpness and contrast (one
    might borrow the term 'acutance' from image evaluation, although that technically
    should only refer to the evaluation of a knife edge image), the CT2 method seems
    unquestionably superior to the others. But those are very simple criteria. Is
    it possible that readers may prefer fuzzier images? Further, is it possible, as
    I suspect it might be, that for long term reading (i.e. reading over a period
    of many hours) a fuzzier image may be less tiring? I worry about fatigue in any
    high contrast reading system but most particularly in any transilluminated reading
    system. In other words, I am trying to shift the ground away from simplistic evaluation
    of legibility towards a discussion of what might happen over very long periods
    of reading which, after all, is what really counts.\r\n\r\nThen there are other
    questions: the only system we have evaluated without hinting is Quartz. How do
    the other systems behave when confronted with unhinted fonts? With badly hinted
    fonts? Apple seems to be looking ahead three or four years, MS seems to be looking
    backwards two or three. What is going on in LCD development? Are we coming closer
    to the point when 200 or 300 dpi screens may be common? Even if we do get there,
    well-hinted fonts will look better, but, with AA, how much better? \r\n\r\nIt
    would be interesting to know how MS controlled for screen brightness, contrast,
    gamma in its research. Then there is the issue that most users dial up brightness
    much too high for comfortable long-term viewing, even though that may provide
    an apparent short-term boost in viewability. "
  created: '2006-04-10 06:12:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Is it possible that readers may prefer fuzzier images? Further, is it
    possible, as I suspect it might be, that for long term reading (i.e. reading over
    a period of many hours) a fuzzier image may be less tiring? I worry about fatigue
    in any high contrast reading system...</em>\r\n\r\nAll the studies I've heard
    about indicate the opposite: that high contrast is essential to good readability,
    that reduction of contrast reduces readability, and that fuzzy text causes eye
    strain. Kevin Larson would be the best person to summarise the literature on this
    for us. Eye strain is one of the most easily measured aspects of reading, since
    movement of the involved muscles can be tracked very accurately.\r\n\r\n<em>It
    would be interesting to know how MS controlled for screen brightness, contrast,
    gamma in its research.</em>\r\n\r\nI know they spent a lot of time dealing with
    the gamma issue, and correcting for gamma is one of the key purposes of the CT
    tuning applet. Greg Hitchcock speaks about this in the ART team 'fontblog':\r\n<a
    href=\"http://blogs.msdn.com/fontblog/archive/2005/10/20/483557.aspx\">You can
    tune a font but you can\u2019t tuna fish...</a> (see comments also).\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 07:33:22'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> All the studies I\u2019ve heard about indicate the \r\n> opposite: that
    high contrast is essential \r\n> to good readability, that reduction of \r\n>
    contrast reduces readability, and that fuzzy \r\n> text causes eye strain.\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    the studies are wrong. Out of the five samples of Georgia you presented earlier,
    Quartz Medium and CoolType look best for me. The ClearType samples always make
    me think of offest prints on glossy paper. Novel books don't use super-sharp type
    on strikingly white paper and I'm sure I'm not the only person who thinks that
    extreme contrast does not help reading. ClearType may generate the \"crispest\"
    images but the property \"crisp\" does not relate in any way to readability. \r\n\r\nWhenever
    I can, I read long web pages on my Mac instead of my Dell, although the latter
    has a higher dpi. \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 12:28:10'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\" fuzzy text causes eye strain\" :) then I'll make some?\r\n\r\nI've tried
    pretty \"rigorously\" to get this spec. Like MS, I didn't bother to ask children,
    elderly, or any of those pesky foreign script readers anything, but I've seen
    of pretty pictures of letters, and lots of nice looking text faces at subhead
    sizes.\r\n\r\nIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII
    I thank you. \r\n\r\n(P.S. \"If you see a smooth even tone to the I's, then you
    are probably running away from CT. If you see alternating bands of gray running
    through the I's and uneven fencing, then you are probably running towards CT.
    These bands are caused by rasterizing artifacts.)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 15:32:47'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "And, I had a long description of why John and Hrant don't want hints or HZ
    (lol), 'cause all their problems would be solved with extrordinaty clarity and
    ease For All, or Any Rasterizer, by the humble but perfect variation axis for
    resolution, were every single feature of every single character can be perfectly
    positioned for any or every size without ever compromising the print quality,
    the other sizes, or the designer's life. \r\n\r\nMaybe in, some future boot camp...
    ;)"
  created: '2006-04-10 15:39:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "John, Adam: you couldn't wait one day eh?  :-/\r\n\r\n> \u201CIf you see
    a smooth even tone to the I\u2019s ...\r\n\r\n:->>\r\n\r\nSeriously John: subpixel
    positioning is doing more harm than good.\r\nSince Vista's launch has been delayed,
    maybe there's enough time\r\nto put a recall on that through the pipeline.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 16:00:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>high contrast is essential to good readability</em>\r\n\r\nThat's not
    using the term \"contrast\" in a typographic sense. The scientists are getting
    to you John :-) What's meant is sharpness.\r\nHigh contrast faces (Didone) don't
    usually rank highly with typographers for extended text. \r\n\r\nA little sharpness
    is useful, but why overdo it? The best faces have their share of adnate and ball
    terminals. To make sharpness the main feature of a face is somewhat limiting (I
    did that with Beaufort; Arrow seems to be the face in that genre that does best,
    and it's not a popular taste). Vendome, Esprit also. Interestingly, ClearType
    Calibri has a softening, apparent in print and at larger sizes. \r\n\r\nSurely
    the thick horizontal stroke on the bottom bowl of the \"g\" is an important feature
    of the traditional contrasted-stroke serif face? The idea being that the horizontal
    stroke should have the same visual weight as the two vertical strokes on the sides
    of the round above. But the CoolType and ClearType versions shown do away with
    it completely!\r\n\r\nA traditonally important \"role architectural\" (to use
    an Enneson term) feature of the \"g\" has been sacrificed at the altar of sharpness
    -- perhaps it works, but it seems peculiar.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 17:21:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'll chime in fully soon (and in the imminent OTHER thread),\r\nbut for now
    I can't resist pointing out that the Georgia \"g\"\r\nwas hinted for an older
    technology, and that's why the top\r\nof the lower bowl is too thin - not CT's
    fault (well, maybe\r\na little bit - I'll explain later).\r\n\r\nWhat would be
    interesting is seeing in Constantia in CoolType...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 17:25:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>That\u2019s not using the term \u201Ccontrast\u201D in a typographic
    sense. The scientists are getting to you John :-) What\u2019s meant is sharpness.</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    what is meant is contrast in terms of the letterforms being black rather than
    grey (presuming a 'white' background). Sharpness is a different measure. In print,
    all parts of a letter have the same contrast and the same sharpness. That is,
    the ink is the same blackness on the hairlines as on the main stems and bowls,
    and the outline is equally sharp (which is not to say that the type image is always
    rendered sharply, i.e. clearly, but only that the quality of the line where the
    black meets the white is largely consistent). On screen, as soon as you move away
    from b/w bitmaps, you lose the consistency of contrast and sharpness. Whether
    you are dealing with greyscale or with subpixel rendering, some parts of the letter
    will be lighter or darker than other parts, and some parts of the outline will
    be rendered sharper or fuzzier than other parts. This is a degradation of the
    identity of the letters, with significant impact on every proposed model of reading,
    regardless of whether the fundamental cognitive unit is considered the individual
    letter, the bouma shape or the role architecture of parts of letters. As soon
    as you reduce the consistency of contrast and sharpness, you are relatively inflating
    the importance of some features and degrading that of others. Because the effect
    is relative, it is independent of the question of what is ideal contrast or ideal
    sharpness: as Adam notes, printed books vary in sharpness, and we find that matte,
    offwhite paper is better for continuous reading than bright white paper (but this
    is <em>not</em> because of contrast per se but because of the glare factor from
    reflected light). What matters is not whether contrast or sharpness is ideal,
    but whether it is consistent and does not degrade parts of letterforms."
  created: '2006-04-10 20:18:01'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David: <em>I\u2019ve seen of pretty pictures of letters, and lots of nice
    looking text faces at subhead sizes.</em>\r\n\r\nDon't sit so close to your screen
    :)\r\n\r\nSeriously, if you are seeing the text samples posted here as subhead
    sizes, then you must have much bigger pixels than I do. This is always a problem
    in discussing this kind of thing across the Internet. Ideally, we'd all be sitting
    in the same room, looking at a bank of different screens, and actually know that
    we're seeing the same thing when we talk about it."
  created: '2006-04-10 20:22:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant: <em>What would be interesting is seeing in Constantia in CoolType\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nYour
    wish is my indulgence:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ConsCool.gif]\r\n\r\n_\r\n\r\nNominal
    pt sizes 7-14"
  created: '2006-04-10 20:43:05'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: 'Re Const in Cooltype, can it really be that bad? I mean that is by far the
    worst rendering I think that we have seen so far. John, what were you feeding
    it? Some kind of TT with any kind of hints it could understand? What about autohinted
    PS? Surely that is not the best that CoolType can do? '
  created: '2006-04-11 05:25:32'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "> In print, all parts of a letter have the same \r\n> contrast and the same
    sharpness. That is, the \r\n> ink is the same blackness on the hairlines as \r\n>
    on the main stems and bowls, and the outline \r\n> is equally sharp\r\n\r\nJohn,
    you seem to be completely ignoring one fundamental difference between print and
    screen. On screen, the whitespace GLOWS. It emits light. If you want to compare
    it with print, think of the screen behaving like glossy paper. One of the most
    important elements of having readable type in print is selecting a paper that
    does not heavily reflect light so the amount of light that whitespace reflects
    is reduced. \r\n\r\nThe human eye should avoid looking straight into a light source
    for a long time, and it cannot stand shapes that appear in extreme contrast. \r\n\r\nI
    would be interested to see black/white contrast studies of well printed books.
    I don't know if such studies were ever made but to my intuition, this is one of
    the fundamental elements of readability. I wouldn't be surprised if we discovered
    that there is a certain sweet spot in the contrast the amount of perceived light
    black printed type reflects vs. the amount that the paper reflects, as well as
    the overall amount of perceived light. Simulate this and you'll have readable
    type. \r\n\r\nRemember that early computer screens used white type on black screen,
    and were generally perceived as quite readable. This is obviously because \"glowing\"
    screens where type is white emit less light than \"glowing\" screens where type
    is black and the \"paper\" is white. \r\n\r\nI think optimizing the black-vs-white
    contrast (in terms of delivered light) should be at least the next step in looking
    for an optimal readability solution. I personally strongly prefer screen reading
    environments where type is relatively bold. \r\n\r\nThis is where Mac OS X excels:
    it delivers pretty bold letters even for very delicate designs. In a sense, it
    simulates optical scaling of the old prints to some extent: it consistently adds
    a certain amount of boldness to the edges. The added boldness makes up a relatively
    larger part of the letterforms in very small screen sizes and a very small part
    in the larger screen sizes. In other words, the Mac OS X algorithm helps preserving
    more consistent stem weights across the 7-12 points range. In addition, it never
    delivers type with weak, pitiful one-pixel stems that I truly detest. \r\n\r\nOne-pixel
    stems are death of readability. When bitmap fonts were done for screen, and later,
    when Verdana originally came out, the users would see the small screen sizes (7-10
    pt) on CRT monitors that added some boldness to the pixels by slightly blurring
    them. But the moment I saw Verdana 8 pt, monochromatic, on an LCD panel, I screamed:
    oh my God, this is too thin and too \"sharp\". So I went on to look for bolder
    fonts for my screen. When I got my first Dell notebook with a 133 dpi screen 4
    years ago, I begged Microsoft for a review copy of Matthew Carter's latest addition
    to the Verdana installment, Nina (which is now finally available for sale on http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/ascender/nina/regular/opentype-tt/298825/
    ). I used it as my normal Windows UI font at 18 ppem because that was the size
    where 1-pixel stems turned into 2-pixel stems. \r\n\r\nMore recently I started
    using the ITC Officina version hinted by ParaType because it comes in a large
    range of weights (Regular, Medium, Bold, Extra Bold, Black), that are all carefully
    hinted and deliver very pleasing images on various screen sizes. \r\nhttp://www.twardoch.com/tmp/officinaui1.gif\r\nhttp://www.twardoch.com/tmp/officinaui2.gif\r\n\r\nIt
    is still far from a perfect screen font for me, but it's the best I could get
    so far. For monospaced fonts, I've been always using the gorgeous Lucida Console
    which at 18 or 19 ppem delivers images that are simply great: \r\nhttp://www.twardoch.com/tmp/lucidaconui.gif\r\n(Since
    it's a monospaced font used for programming, I don't mind the very condensed linespacing).
    \r\n\r\nAs for John's Constantia CoolType sample, to my eye (and in my screen
    reading environment which is the 17\" wide panel built into the Dell Inspiron
    XPS2 notebook), the sizes 7, 8, 9 pt look good (apart from the \"la\" blob in
    the 9 pt size. 10 pt and 11 pt appear weak, way below the boldness of the type
    that I like. The last three sizes display some annoying discrepancies in the regularity
    of the type (\"o\" generally appears weaker than the other letters, \"m\" and
    \"w\" are optically larger than \"o\" or \"u\", also the perceived stem thicknesses
    vary). \r\n\r\nA.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-11 11:08:43'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Don\u2019t sit so close to your screen :)\" Which one :) there is the entertainment
    screen, a work screen,  laptop screen, a phone screen, and a watch screen. They
    all want different distances, types, sizes and at least three technologies.\r\n\r\n\"Ideally,
    we\u2019d all be sitting in the same room,...\" three years ago, this might have
    made a difference. \r\n\r\n..but now:\r\n\"# re: You can tune a font but you can\u2019t
    tuna fish...\r\nI see vertical strips, and I'm DEFINITELY running at native resolution.\r\nFriday,
    January 13, 2006 5:53 PM by alex\r\n\r\n# re: You can tune a font but you can\u2019t
    tuna fish...\r\nCan you recommend any way of getting ClearType to work with a
    portrait oriented display?\r\nTuesday, December 13, 2005 1:24 PM by James Kreines\r\n\r\n#
    re: You can tune a font but you can\u2019t tuna fish...\r\nI see alternating lines,
    not a \"smooth even tone\", but I have a CRT, not an LCD. \r\nSo what am I doing
    wrong? :-)\r\nTuesday, October 25, 2005 3:30 AM by Waszszaf\r\n\r\n...it's too
    late. \r\n\r\nI have pointed out to Kevin and Greg, that \"people\" need a more
    comprehensive tuner, NOT just a CT tuner, but one that covers the needs of the
    whole audience, all the technologies they are going to hit, all the applications
    that have defaults, all fonts and all sizes to 1/10th of a point, I.E. a true
    Windows font tuna, and not the limited thought tasty, Yellowfin they've squatted
    on. \r\n\r\nOne of the biggest reasons for this is that none of the experiments
    have been slanted quite enough to give a 100%, 90%, 80%, or even 70% majority
    to CT in the IDEALIZED experimental environments created by MS. So, the real world
    is likely to break at 52% happy, 8% en migrano, 20% finding another way, and 20%
    sticking to Aliased. Sad, I say.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-11 12:53:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I guess forget the other thread - it might just make more work for everybody.
    \ :-/\r\n(Unless David asks for it.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-11 16:54:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Adam, you seem to have bypassed my main point about <em>consistency</em> of
    contrast and sharpness. I'm not arguing with you that ideal contrast and sharpness
    may not lie in extremes of either, I'm arguing that the level of contrast and
    sharpness in letterforms should be consistent, as it is in print. What is not
    good is variable contrast, where one part of a letter is lighter or darker than
    another part of a letter, or where one part is sharper and another fuzzier. The
    great thing about print is that the ink is a single tone, whether it is on a straight
    stem, a round bowl, a hairline -- the colour of the ink is consistent. This is
    what is lost in greyscale antialiasing, but largely regained in ClearType because
    of the colour filtering which makes it possible to render curves and fine lines
    with contrast similar to that of straight stems.
  created: '2006-04-12 04:20:48'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "\"Adam, you seem to have bypassed my main point about consistency of contrast
    and sharpness.\"\r\n\r\nWhich he shouldn't have done, but we'll have to forgive
    him since there are many complex things going on here. Adam, I think, is turning
    his focus to what constitutes an ideal screen reading font, which is not quite
    the same thing as the CT2 focus, which has the perhaps too ambitious goal of finding
    fonts equally at home in print and on screen. I can imagine that might be true
    even if displays were 600 dpi. \r\n\r\nAdam reminds us of Lucida Console and white
    type on black screens. I do a lot of writing. I couldn't do it unless I used XyWrite,
    which gives me a black screen and Lucida Console in white. \r\n\r\nBut that's
    an experience totally outside of WYSIWIG, which is not even contemplated by CT2.
    So in a way it is unfair to hold CT2 to these absolute standards, but equally,
    it is fair, since where are we if you can't now give me a better extended time
    screen reading experience than I had in PC-DOS? \r\n\r\nAdam's comments on the
    fuzziness he likes in Quartz remind me a bit of what happened when laser printers
    went from 300 dpi to 600 dpi. All of a sudden, users were miserable, because Courier
    at 600 dpi is so much less readable than at 300 dpi. The old stuff was fuzzier,
    bolder, vastly more legible. \r\n\r\nI have what I might describe as a Volk-theory,
    that noise in reading and in music can be helpful as a subliminal aid to concentration.
    However, perhaps it's stupidly distracting even to mention that. \r\n\r\nIn the
    meantime, David is bringing to our attention that CT2 has noise forms that may
    impair legibility and concentration, i.e. irrationally moving stems. However,
    I cannot see evidence of artefacts in the row of I's here, and I am looking at
    them with CT1. On the other hand, I remember in previous threads some persuasive
    illustrations of this problem. Am I running at a sufficiently high dpi count to
    negate the problem in this instance? \r\n\r\n\"What is not good is variable contrast,
    where one part of a letter is lighter or darker than another part of a letter,
    or where one part is sharper and another fuzzier.\"\r\n\r\nHowever, John, what
    do you think of this? That perhaps the more complex letterforms we are seeing
    in the pretty seriffed CT fonts inherently suggest lightness and darkness in a
    way that simpler letterforms do not? Because contrast, light, and darkness are
    also formal attributes of every font quite apart from the rendering system, and
    that goes beyond intercharacter space, counter space, etc. - it's terribly complex.
    Am I making sense? \r\n\r\nSo I'm wondering if Adam isn't ultimately calling for
    a kind of design simplification that isn't really consistent with the CT2 project
    as it has evolved and may only be consistent with a few users' expectations. \r\nDeep
    issue! At root is the possibility that WYSIWYG should not be the invariable modality,
    and think how that would confuse most users today. \r\n\r\nAdam, I looked at the
    Officina images you referenced, and I must say they look terrible on my 1920x1200
    screen. Are they intended to be examined on a lower-res screen? \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-12 07:00:49'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>I wouldn\u2019t be surprised if we discovered that there is a certain
    sweet spot in the contrast the amount of perceived light black printed type reflects
    vs. the amount that the paper reflects, as well as the overall amount of perceived
    light. Simulate this and you\u2019ll have readable type.\r\n\r\nA non-technical
    observation: It's interesting that Typophile treads are set black against gray.
    I'm not sure it's a \"sweet spot\", but I think I prefer it to a white background.
    If it were white I might have to turn down the brightness on my screen. \r\n\r\nIn
    college, I took a couple classes in television production. One of the things I
    learned, was that no matter what level of techincal precision one is working with,
    you can never stop a user from \"fooling around with the nobs\" to make things
    look the way *they* want. In the case of television production, this was often
    discouraging because of the loss of control over the product. In the case of type,
    I'm not sure it would be a bad thing..."
  created: '2006-04-12 18:26:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">It\u2019s interesting that Typophile treads are set black against gray.
    \r\n\r\nSome old grouches such as me said it would be better against white."
  created: '2006-04-12 19:00:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>However, John, what do you think of this? That perhaps the more complex
    letterforms we are seeing in the pretty seriffed CT fonts inherently suggest lightness
    and darkness in a way that simpler letterforms do not? Because contrast, light,
    and darkness are also formal attributes of every font quite apart from the rendering
    system, and that goes beyond intercharacter space, counter space, etc. - it\u2019s
    terribly complex. Am I making sense?</em>\r\n\r\nYes, you are making sense, but
    the formal aspect of contrast, which is inherent in the design, needs to be distinguished
    from the medial aspect of contrast, i.e. the contrast provided by the medium.
    In print, you have a consistent medial contrast, provided by the monotone ink,
    which is the same colour whether it is on a stem, a bowl or a hairline. This medial
    contrast provides, if you will, the base level on which the formal contrast of
    light and dark design elements rests. The same is true of single-bit bitmaps on
    screen, although obviously the design opportunities are greatly reduced by the
    crudity of the pixel grid.\r\n\r\nIn antialiasing, whether greyscale or subpixel,
    the medial contrast is reduced. The stems, bowls and hairlines are no longer made
    up of the same colour. The colour, and hence the relative contrast, varies in
    different parts of a letter. So the medial base contrast is degraded, undermining
    the formal contrast of the design. There are two approaches to improving text
    rendering in such circumstances:\r\n\r\nOne is to design typefaces with formal
    characteristics that are tailored to the degraded medial base contrast, i.e. designs
    which respond to the effects of antialiasing and try to counteract the degradation.
    The usual method is to design formally low contrast shapes, e.g. sans serifs and
    slab serif typefaces with little modulation in stroke weight. The limitation of
    this approach is seen in the variation of sharpness between straight stems and
    curves, and artifacts of degraded medial contrast that remain even in designs
    tailored to the medium. Greyscale Verdana has better consistency of contrast than
    greyscale Georgia, but medial degradation is still visible where curves narrow
    to join stems: as the stroke becomes formally lighter, the medial contrast is
    inevitably reduced.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VerdGrey.gif]\r\n_\r\n\r\nSo
    the other approach is to tackle the problem from the rasteriser side rather than
    from the type design side. This is what ClearType aims to do, by using colour
    filtering of subpixel antialiasing to restore, as far as possible, the medial
    base contrast, to make it as consistent as possible, so that stems, bowls and
    hairlines are rendered in similarly dark tones. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/VerdCT.gif]\r\n_\r\n\r\nThe
    benefit of attacking the problem from the rasteriser side is that it greatly expands
    the design opportunities. You are not tied to low modulation designs that try
    to reverse the medial degradation of greyscale, because the medial base level
    is so much higher. Now, obviously it is still not as high as ink on paper, but
    it is a lot closer than greyscale, and this opens up the design opportunities
    considerably. Some of the MS ClearType Collection fonts push those design opportunities
    more than others. I admit that there are days when I look at the formal details
    of some Constantia glyphs and wonder if I have not pushed too far, or if the current
    CT rendering and screen resolutions are really good enough for such shapes. But
    the design is aimed at an improving technology, not a static one.\r\n\r\nThe fault
    I find with the Quartz and CoolType rendering is that they achieve improved smoothness
    of curves in the x-direction with subpixel rendering, but they do nothing to improve
    the medial base contrast. Stems, bowls and hairlines are all still rendered with
    varying levels of tone, often as bad as greyscale antialiasing. It is as if someone
    had partially scrubbed a printing plate with solvent before taking an impression:
    fracturing the medial contrast and washing away bits of the letters.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-12 19:10:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Am I running at a sufficiently high dpi count to negate the problem in
    this instance?\"\r\n\r\nNot ness. Every character has a sweet spot to the resolution
    spectrum. Characters designed for screens has more sweet than sour, and CT has
    even more with 3x apparent resolution. but there are still sour spots, just keep
    trying."
  created: '2006-04-12 19:26:16'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "I have just rebooted and gone back to this thread and find that for a couple
    of days I was looking at this thread with some video defects that have obviously
    since gone away. The g's in Constantia look much better, and the CoolType version
    looks very much better. I also now think I can discern uneven fencing in the I
    row. Evaluative perils lie everywhere. Today the thoughtful design of the a and
    g in Constantia comes out for me. I'm not sure I am ultimately convinced by the
    approach but I see that there is a good idea here that is being carefully worked
    out and it is good that we have a chance to see this and work with it. The blobless
    a has perhaps been taken too far but one can see here a clear will to design the
    letter such that distortion will be minimal in the top half. One can also easily
    see that the design is marred by the CoolType rendering because there is clearly
    insufficient contrast in the top stroke of the a, exactly what John is complaining
    about in this renderer. In the g, there is careful thought to make the space between
    the two bowls as distinct as practically possible. This preserves the glyph integrity
    maximally though I am not yet convinced it helps legibility or 'scansion' (my
    theory being that having the two bowls touching probably makes for a more legible
    character, but that doesn't detract from the interest in seeing what happens when
    you make them as separate as you can). The k also seems to have some interesting
    thought. Altogether one can see that this is very far from a print type translation
    to screen, rather, that careful thought has gone into maximising the glyph forms
    for legibility. \r\n\r\nAnd now in an attempt to cut through the noise (admittedly
    some of it produced by me) can I ask what this thread is really about? What I
    see is that someone (who just happens to be the world's greatest font technician)
    is very tactfully asking for some detailed information about CT2 hinting. Then
    I see a lot of quite interesting discussion on side topics, but I don't see much
    hard info coming out. What does this mean? What are the implications? Is ClearType
    ClosedType? Is there a desire not to share information, or is it simply that nobody
    has yet had time enough to document the required information properly?\r\n\r\nDavid,
    can I ask, re '3x apparent resolution' gain from anti-aliasing. This is the figure
    that has been claimed ever since Xerox and others started showing off their '600
    dpi' LCDs a few years back, i.e., 150 dpi LCDs with anti-aliasing. Is the 3x figure
    really justified? "
  created: '2006-04-13 19:35:47'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "But John, you are comparing against the Windows 2000/XP greyscale rendering
    with 21 shades of grey which I always considered a huge flop. It creates far too
    weak diagonal and round shapes. The old Windows 95/98 rasterizer that did antialiasing
    with just (AFAIR) 5 shades of grey was much much better, and Mac OS X is *way*
    better than the Windows 2000/XP greyscale a-a. \r\n\r\nWhat the Windows 2000/XP
    greyscale antialiasing does to stems rendered at 1 pixel is the worst thing of
    all renderings I've seen. It's worse than ClearType, Mac OS X, Windows 98, CoolType,
    FreeType, Flash classic, Saffron etc. \r\n\r\nGeorgia and Verdana were developed
    with the Windows 95/98 rasterizer in mind. The \"transitional\" sizes of Verdana
    and Georgia (where antialiasing knocks in but the stems are still mostly 1-pixels)
    are just a massive catastrophy. I'm sure neither Carter nor Rickner envisioned
    in that way. I guess I'll install Windows 98 in my VMware and make some screenshots.
    (BTW John, if you have a Windows 95/98/98 SE CD somewhere, you can set it up easily
    and at no extra cost -- I've written an detailed recipe at http://www.fontlab.com/FontLab-Product-Support/FontLab-FAQs/FAQ-Fontographer/
    )\r\n\r\nBut this does not tell you anything about the superiority of ClearType
    subpixel rendering vs. classic antialiasing. I think I'll agree that ClearType
    does better than the Windows 2000/XP antialiasing for small sizes but I'm still
    in heavy doubt whether it's significantly better than the good old Windows 98
    antialiasing. \r\n\r\nAdam\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 21:22:29'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Now this, (from the MS Ct website, is truely Amaaaazing:\r\n\r\n\"To turn
    on ClearType, go to Control Panel > Display > Appearance > Effects and turn on
    the checkbox for \"smooth edges of screen fonts,\" making sure that the popup
    menu reads \"ClearType.\"\r\n\r\nThere, reading the Alertbox just saved you $2,000.\r\n\r\nTo
    estimate the cost-savings from anti-aliased screen fonts, consider a business
    professional who makes $50,000 per year. If this user spends 20% of his or her
    time reading emails, intranet pages, and other documents on the computer screen,
    then the screen costs the company $20,000 per year (using the traditional rule
    that employees cost twice their salary due to benefits, overhead, etc.). ClearType
    will make this user at least 10% more productive while reading from the screen,
    for a gain of $2,000.\"\r\n\r\nZo, eeef ve remove de Y hints too, add some yellow
    and blue, and you can save $4,000!\r\nAnd by then, it'll be improving your sex
    life! growing hair on stones! and a perfecting floor wax AND and dessert topping
    formula.\r\n\r\nThe Windows 95/98 rasterizer should be our third alternative to
    CT and Alias'd, thanks Adam."
  created: '2006-04-13 22:08:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>And by then, it\u2019ll be improving your sex life! growing hair on stones!
    and a perfecting floor wax AND and dessert topping formula.</em>\r\n\r\nBut it
    still won't have cured piles: you need GX for that. (Homage \xE0 Robert Norton.)"
  created: '2006-04-13 23:18:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Bill: <em>I see a lot of quite interesting discussion on side topics, but
    I don\u2019t see much hard info coming out. What does this mean? What are the
    implications? Is ClearType ClosedType? Is there a desire not to share information,
    or is it simply that nobody has yet had time enough to document the required information
    properly?</em>\r\n\r\nI don't see the discussion regarding different rendering
    systems etc as side topics. They are directly relevant to the questions David
    raised and organic to the discussion of those questions.\r\n\r\nI don't think
    anyone is being stingy with information; rather the opposite: there is a lot of
    data, as the images attest, but no definitive set of guidelines, which is what
    David's original post was aiming for. As I wrote earlier, the CT font collection
    represents the response of several designers to the question of how to design
    type for the CT environment. There are some commonalities in the approaches, and
    also some differences. At the initial briefing, the MS ART folk explained how
    CT rendering works, and made some suggestions based on their observations and
    experiences working on the Frutiger and Berling fonts for the MS Reader, then
    through the design process they provided testing and feedback. But they largely
    let the designers find their own way. The point I tried to make in the early portions
    of the discussion here is that we are collectively still finding that way: looking
    at what works and what doesn't, getting a more accurate picture, through images,
    of what ClearType does with letterforms, and so on. In starting this discussion,
    David has written what may be the first attempt to formalise or systematise design
    guidelines for ClearType. It is not 'simply that nobody has yet had time enough
    to document the required information properly' but that the required information
    is still being collected, and I think there needs to be more practical type design
    experience before guidelines can be considered anything but preliminary. The approach
    from Microsoft in the CT font collection was to approach design for CT from the
    perspective that CT is sufficiently close to print for types to be made that will
    work well in both media. David disagrees with this perspective -- and I'm cautious
    enough to both question it and try to apply it --, and I think an important contribution
    to design for CT will come from that disagreement."
  created: '2006-04-13 23:40:28'
- author:
    name: billtroop
    picture: 109800
  body: "Thanks, John, that's a good overview, and the back story about how everyone
    is still finding their way with CT is helpful in dispelling any hint of conspiracy.
    \r\n\r\nI didn't realise the Win95/98 rasteriser was so good. I think I went straight
    from 98 to XP, and the minute I turned on CT and saw how good Arial looked in
    Eudora, I would never have thought of going back. I believed I had never seen
    such good screen type. But I never did a comparison with Win 95/98 at comparable
    resolutions, and would be very interested to hear more. \r\n\r\nOn my near 150
    dpi screen, I must say Georgia really does look like 300 dpi type, or maybe even
    600 dpi type. But only from a viewing distance of at least 18 inches. Just as
    in depth of field calculations in photography, real world viewing distance is
    the crucial variable, and enlargements are evaluatively misleading except to persons
    highly skilled in the art.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-15 00:33:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Thanks John: \"David has written what may be the first attempt to formalise
    or systematise design guidelines for ClearType.[..,] I think there needs to be
    more practical type design experience before guidelines can be considered anything
    but preliminary.\"\r\n\r\nRegardless of the reasons for not having any truly clear
    guidelines, MS has neither tested this technology Truly Rigorously, on old, young,
    or on Chinese, or on connecting scripts e.g., (in their minds eye* or with their
    hands eye\u2020), yet it is released, it is the option MS is building on.  I'm
    supposed to uncover the issues myself, okay...\r\n\r\nI have framed a pretty decent
    research path, ((test print vs. online SAME FONT, SAME SIZE, test online aliased
    (win 96), grey scale and CT, SAME FONT SAME SIZE, ITALIC not ness., Latin, Chinese
    and Arabic, test all for all age groups, test A Wide Variety of Styles).  I only
    do the proof when I want to make claims, or fonts. \r\n\r\nI don't want to make
    any claims, and I can't see a way to make some of the kinds of typefaces I think
    users want. So...if I can only make the kinds of fonts MS wants, (or Think users
    want, which also match the capabilities of the technology), then how many are
    there?\r\n\r\n* e.g. You  only have to think a little to know that without x hints,
    your connecting scripts (and I don't mean the Cabarga type or Sealtest's logo).\r\n\r\n\u2020
    Imagine a monospaced serif  typeface that begins with disturbed rhythm, disturbed
    weights and disturbed serifs, all in X. Now, try to make a low res. version, with
    your \"x hand\" tied behind your back :)\r\n\r\nImagine, thanks."
  created: '2006-04-17 12:48:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>You only have to think a little to know that without x hints, your connecting
    scripts (and I don\u2019t mean the Cabarga type or Sealtest\u2019s logo).</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    seems to be an incomplete sentence. Your connecting scripts what?\r\n\r\nLet's
    talk about this. What kind of connecting scripts are you talking about? When I
    hear the phrase, I think Arabic, Mongolian, etc., but perhaps you are thinking
    about connecting script in Latin typographical terms."
  created: '2006-04-17 21:41:18'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Your connecting scripts what?\"\r\nExactly.\r\n\r\n\"but perhaps you are
    thinking about connecting script in Latin typographical terms.\"\r\n\r\nTime is
    of my essence, sorry for the incompleteness. Yes, arabic and Sealtest have horizontal
    connectors, who cares. Most connecting scripts don't. Latin has many scripts that
    connect in 2 minensions, x, and y. Prove CT will do this at low res., please.
    \r\n\r\nthanks."
  created: '2006-04-18 15:10:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: '....if not, that''s fine, I''ll revise the spec.'
  created: '2006-04-18 15:11:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Latin has many scripts that connect in 2 minensions, x, and y.</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    mean the kind of design in which letters have diagonal connecting strokes on both
    sides, which are supposed to line up neatly? [Personally, I think this is a totally
    crap way to design a script font, and is an ugly holdover from metal type when
    that was the only way to do it. But yes, they exist so must be dealt with.]\r\n\r\nI'm
    trying to find such a font on my system, but I don't think I have any. The few
    script fonts I have are all made with a connecting stroke on the right only (Snell
    Roundhand, Bickham Script Pro, Zapfino).\r\n\r\nOh wait, I have Matthew's Gando
    (the Bitstream French 111 version). Would that do for a test (I would have to
    convert to TT)? Or can you send me a TTF that you would like me to test?"
  created: '2006-04-18 20:21:44'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Personally, I think this is a totally crap way to design a script font\"\r\n\r\nThat's
    one way of saying it. But that li'le pokey comin' out of the same place worked,
    from metal, to film, from film to digital, and from digital to low resolution
    digital. And that pokey now seems quite quaint, compared to some totally crap
    ways of designing, e.g. URW once offered the relief of a program that auto-inserted
    li'le ink traps and elephant feet on every junction and terminal to offset the
    effects of a hideous film font process. And even that now sounds quaint. Try Mistral.
    Try Courier. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 22:02:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Okay, here's Mistral, rendered with subpixel positioning and y-direction
    antialiasing. Sizes from nominal 16pt down to nominal 8pt at 145ppi. [This is
    all I have time to do now, and I'm going to be away for the next week.]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mistralct.gif]"
  created: '2006-04-19 02:54:46'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I don't know about you, but that looks pretty friggin' good to me.
  created: '2006-04-19 02:55:54'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Mistral is a good choice, quite fat. I'd like to see something with thinner
    hairlines that might have a chance to break.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)
  created: '2006-04-19 03:03:14'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Here is Monotype's French Script MT, again with subpixel positioning and
    y-direction antialiasing; nominal sizes 22pt down to 12pt at 145ppi. The subpixel
    kerning does cause some connection problems with this font, but the y-direction
    antialiasing cleans them up very well. So this would be an instance of the kind
    of design for which one would want to turn on y-direction antialiasing in the
    gasp table at quite small sizes. In this case, y-direction antialiasing does cause
    a loss of contrast in the very light lower right area of the d, but considering
    that this was not intended as a screen font I think overall the results are very
    impressive.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/frenchscriptct.gif]"
  created: '2006-04-19 04:41:31'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Thank you!\r\nYes, it's quite good.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-04-19 05:56:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Sizes from nominal 16pt down to nominal 8pt at 145ppi.\"\r\n\r\n145 ppi?
    I see. Yes, it\u2019s quite good. Now, back to reality,\r\n(i.e. the approx. 329,695,432
    users below 145 dpi.)? \r\n\r\nJust to be clear, \"big lie\" testing can be pretty
    clearly demonstrated here, and in nearly every other test MS has run. One large
    typographic flaw sits somewhere, in the pile skewing the result, waiting to be
    found.  In this case, using resolution 1.5 to 2.0 times the installed base is
    not a test that answers the question, John.\r\n\r\nThe best \"big lie\" marketing
    so far is the \"save $2,000 per employee with CT\" assuming everyone will use
    \"improved text\" to read long \"work\" documents, as opposed to the more likeable
    reading on ESPN.Com, Ebay, or Wikipedia.\r\n\r\nThe \"big lie\" in design, told
    repeatedly and even AFTER the CT fonts were designed and tested, is that \"normal
    hinted TT fonts work fine in CT\", when in fact, they don't. And, they didn't
    to a degree extreme enough to require the core set of outlines to be specially
    designed for CT and then redesigned until they worked with special hints.\r\n\r\nIf
    we are to get past the big lies John, you are helping in a way called \"not\"...Even
    an idiot like me can make a perfect screen font at 24 x 72 pixels (12 pt 145 dpi).
    I learned by 1988 that waterfalls as you show are only effective on typographic
    baboons, lower echelon clients, and below average engineers. A script face that
    can be CTed at any size from 10.1 to 13.5, 96 dpi., and Courier, same sizes and
    resolution, i.e. I said proof, not froof, poof or goof...:)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 14:46:07'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, the resolution on my screen only determines which ppem size will be
    rendered for which nominal point size. If you want to see smaller ppem sizes,
    I can prepare those (but I can't actually read them on my screen because the pixels
    are too small).\r\n\r\nI went down to a size below which the counters in the x-height
    collapsed, which has nothing to do with ClearType and is the same in greyscale
    or b/w rendering. Last time I checked, people tended not to use type at sizes
    where the counters collapse, regardless of their resolution.\r\n \r\nI can't read
    either of these, but the top one still manages to look something like the typeface
    in question: \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/fsmtrealsmall.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    have to go catch a plane now."
  created: '2006-04-19 17:02:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Okay, I'm back, if anyone wants to continue this discussion or look at additional
    examples.\r\n\r\nFirst a question: are we agreed that the smallest practical size
    to look at is that in which the x-height = 5 pixels, regardless of screen resolution
    or any other factor? This is determined by the normative shape of the lowercase
    e, which needs a minimum of five pixels in order to be rendered with two counters.
    [Some italic e glyphs may be recognisable with a 4 pixel height, e.g.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/italicebm_5203.gif]\r\nbut
    we should consider the general case.]"
  created: '2006-04-27 20:21:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hmm. I don't know why my bitmap graphic didn't show up in that last message.
    Anyway, you can probably imagine the form.
  created: '2006-04-27 20:23:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Glad to see you are back among the living John!  You were looking pretty
    pale there in New York.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-27 20:38:34'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Anyway, you can probably imagine the form.\"\r\n\r\nI agree, a healthy
    imagination is best when dealing with the Emperor's new fonts. "
  created: '2006-04-28 13:31:56'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Answer the question David: do you think there is any point in making and
    discussing samples with an x-height smaller than 5 pixels? You charged that I
    was contributing to a 'big lie' by making samples on a high res monitor, despite
    the fact that my monitor resolution is irrelevant to the range of ppem sizes in
    the samples. I responded that I showed samples down to a 5 pixel x-height, and
    that below that the counters start collapsing and the text becomes unreadable
    regardless of whether it is rendered with ClearType or b/w bitmaps. So where is
    the big lie? You asked for samples of script faces with joining connecting strokes.
    I provided them, down to the ppem size at which the letters remain legible.\r\n\r\n\r\n[Since
    Typophile's image upload doesn't seem to be working properly, I have posted my
    image of a 4-pixel e <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/John/italicebm.gif\">here</a>.
    Again, the point regarding that image is that this form is an exception, not the
    rule or the norm, and the letter e almost always requires 5 pixels to render legibly.]"
  created: '2006-04-28 18:37:53'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Answer the question David: do you think there is any point in making and
    discussing samples with an x-height smaller than 5 pixels\"\r\n\r\nSorry, I was
    out on other treads. No, there is no point, as I've said Numerous Times, 8 pixels
    per em, is the minimum in a Hrantless world\r\n\r\nThere is also no point in trying
    to get someone who is rasterizing at 150% of the norm to \"think Normally\", I
    guess. 145 x 435 is it? We keep coming back to this, seemingly to suit your need
    to say \"Soon!\" But when do you expect your ivory tower resolutrion to expand
    to cover 10% of the 100% of users MS wants CT to cover?\r\n\r\nJohn, just about
    every time you open you typewriter, I need to drag very important details out
    about how YOU are forming your opinion. Everybody knows you are an authoratative
    type person, so if you say, :It looks Great here!\" leaving out that its 145 x
    435 is it? & Some Hints and on Fonts HandTaylored to CT, NO ONE IS SURPRISED.
    We don't expect and font at any size above 10 pt to be a big problem Okay?\r\n\r\nThe
    big thing, is that if what you believe the CT = Everything line, you make a reasonable
    and stable core set of values for your testing, that are unimpaired, impartial,
    and thorough. If you don't do that, if every    single    truth     has to be
    teased out, then you're saying more than any test could. \r\n\r\nI'm going back
    to the CT spec. to specify a specimen, so I can write the spec. again. It's certainly
    become Clearer, but unfortunately, it's becoming less Type. ;)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-06 15:13:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> 8 pixels per em, is the minimum in a Hrantless world\r\n\r\nAnd a Fleishmann-less
    world, and a Tracy-less world, and...\r\nAbbreviating x-height features to give
    some more room to\r\nthe extenders is a very old trick, and there's no reason
    it\r\ncan't be applied to save em-space in bitmap fonts (if you\r\nreally want
    to save as much space as possible, which is of\r\ncourse never the only factor).\r\n\r\nFurthermore,
    you can make an \"e\" like John's (in fact people\r\nalready have) and readers
    will read it fine as an \"e\"; you can\r\neven make a binocular \"a\" that's missing
    the bottom row and\r\nit'll still work (because when it comes to individual letters,\r\npeople
    are really very very good at deciphering them).\r\n\r\nSo although 8 pixels is
    indeed a healthy lower bound, it's by no means\r\nan absolute minimum, and in
    some cases breaching it is Good Design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-06 15:25:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "More:\r\nAnd what about Hobo? It uses no space at all for the descenders.
    Sure, it's not a text face, but it's entirely legible (which is pretty much what
    makes for adequacy at an extreme, like that of small size) and people don't think
    it's not a \"real\" font.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 08:34:38'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<cite>So although 8 pixels is indeed a healthy lower bound, it\u2019s by
    no means\r\nan absolute minimum, and in some cases breaching it is Good Design.</cite>\r\n\r\nDefine
    \"health\" and \"case\", please."
  created: '2006-05-08 12:37:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I chose \"healthy\" exactly because it's a bit mushy (like humans).\r\nBut
    trying to elaborate, I would say that 8 point is a lower bound\r\nwhen certain
    other things are assumed, things that normally are safe\r\nto assume, but not
    always. For example by making the bowl of the \"g\"\r\none pixel shorter to allow
    descenders to be 1 pixel, you create a certain\r\nugliness, which is nominally
    undesirable; but whether it is in fact <cite>too</cite>\r\nugly depends on other
    things, like if you absolutely must fit a paragraph\r\nwithin a certain vertical
    bound, or if the display font in the composition\r\nat hand exhibits a lot of
    irregularity, etc.\r\n\r\nThink for example of this:\r\nhttp://www.tdc.org/news/2005Results/Minuscule.html
    _\r\n(And that image shows the least pushy cut in that family.)\r\nThe question
    is, do the \"distortions\" inherent to this\r\ndesign make it <cite>useless</cite>?
    I tend to think not.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-08 22:22:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "David, I've been pretty vocal about the fact that CT doesn't look very good
    on my Panasonic 96dpi screen: it looks too fuzzy, but then so does greyscale on
    the same screen. The first screens on which I saw CT looking good were c. 115dpi.
    I know my Dell 146dpi screen is higher resolution than most people use. The irony,
    of course, is that my Panasonic with the sh\u0456tty screen cost more than my
    Dell with the great screen :)\r\n\r\nThe specific thing we were looking at above,
    though, was the linking strokes of script faces, and the question, as I understood
    it, of whether these needed x-direction deltas in order to connect correctly.
    This seems to me independent of the question of whether the type looks good over-all
    at the low end of 'normal' monitor resolutions. The important observation is that
    subpixel positioning, i.e. Vista CT, handles the connections very well, even down
    to an x-height of 5 pixels. If full pixel positioning is used, as in XP CT, then
    some of the connections will break."
  created: '2006-05-09 06:38:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<cite>CT doesn\u2019t look very good on my Panasonic 96dpi screen</cite>\r\nI
    knew that, but never ever knew that you did...\r\n<cite>my Panasonic with the
    sh\u0456tty screen cost more than my Dell</cite>.\r\nas a Mac user, I'm pretty
    much immune to getting good deals on screens, but they're all good... :)\r\n<cite>the
    question, as I understood it, of whether these needed x-direction deltas</cite>\r\nActually
    no. Deltas are not used. The question I had was: without x direction control of
    any kind, in the lower reaches of the spectrum (11-23 ppm), before aliased takes
    over (8-10ppm), can fonts that are rich in x requirements survive without hints,
    on rasterizing alone.\r\n\r\nTwo examples of this are simple connecting scripts
    (not fancy as they'd be less useful to read at small sizes), and monospaced serif
    fonts, (though sans'll be no picnic either). \r\n\r\nThe first example says: fix
    my width and then mdap or mirp that connector to a regulated cut-through and ensure
    consistent connectivity. \r\n<cite>If full pixel positioning is used, as in XP
    CT, then some of the connections will break</cite>\r\nNot my way, ever. \r\n\r\nThe
    other example, monospaced, says to set that width to maintain it's exact consistency
    for all characters, and then work your way into the glyph to settle the unruly
    stems, side blurtings and counters therin.\r\n\r\nNo matter how you look at it,
    without pixel positioning, without high resolution displays, without x-hints,
    and without CT modified outlines, (i.e. where the world, its fonts, and screens
    are today), these x-rich typographic problems are only solveable as the rasterizer
    sees things and the craft of making it right, to the pixel, has been jettisoned.\r\n\r\nThe
    irony, of course, is that until recently, the future actually, there was no market
    for the craft, and our industry has been beaten up for not \"providing solutions.\"
    Now, the W3c is proposing a way out!, so that well hinted fonts can actually be
    marketed outside of that tight OEM circle, licensed, linked and counted, but:
    a. MS is against it, and b. the environments where crafted fonts can be use, well,
    done been discontinyoud frum lack o quality pro ducks. dahhhhh. :)\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 12:46:37'
date: '2006-03-20 20:28:39'
node_type: forum
title: CT Design Guide

---
