---
author:
  name: Christian Robertson
  picture: 109415
body: "<strong>TYPE BATTLE: Week 9 (20 March)</strong>\r\n\r\nHere\u2019s your chance
  to stretch your type muscles on a weekly basis. Each game kicks off on Monday with
  a new challenge, and closes at midnight PST on Friday. Anyone may submit a design
  response to the challenge. You may enter as often as you wish. Post anytime. Critiques
  and comments are welcome throughout the game, from participants and spectators alike.
  Smack talk is encouraged.\r\n\r\nWinner take all, no holds barred. May be the best
  designer win.\r\n\r\nLink directly to this thread: http://www.typophile.com/battle09\r\n\r\n<strong>Requirements:</strong>\r\n\r\n-
  Size: 600 width x 400 height. 72 dpi\r\n- Color: Black and white only\r\n- Format:
  Please save your graphics as PNG\r\n- Only respond with the characters posted in
  the challenge.\r\n\r\n<strong>// THIS WEEK\u2019S CHALLENGE:\r\nDesign three new
  characters for the latin alphabet representing the sounds 'ch' 'th' and 'sh'. We're
  looking for new characters, not ligatures. Show the characters in context.\r\n</strong>"
comments:
- author:
    name: 2m1
  body: thanks
  created: '2006-03-21 21:16:18'
- author:
    name: engelhardt
    picture: 111062
  body: "Quoted from the <a href=\"http://typophile.com/readme\">Typophile Forum Posting
    Guidelines</a> ...\r\n\r\n<cite><strong>Image technical requirements:</strong>\r\nThe
    best way to post an image is to use the \u201CInsert Image\u201D function below
    the \u201CComments\u201D box. To utilize this function, you must have the Flash
    8 player installed. If you have an image to accompany your post, please ensure
    that it conforms to the following guidelines: do not exceed 600 px wide, save
    images as an RGB jpg/gif/png (tips: gifs are usually crisper for black and white
    type renderings and not all browsers support png).</cite>\r\n\r\nGo <a href=\"http://www.macromedia.com/software/flashplayer/\">HERE</a>
    to download the Flash 8 player."
  created: '2006-03-21 21:23:58'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "Here's a hack-and-slash job on Trajan...\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dipthongs-dg1.png]"
  created: '2006-03-21 21:44:09'
- author:
    name: duncan
    picture: 111159
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ShChTh-Challenge.png]\r\n\r\nYou'll have
    to tell me if these are too close to being ligatures. I felt like these new characters
    should relate to, or derive from the original characters if they are meant to
    be understood as the phoenetic combination. Does that make sense?"
  created: '2006-03-22 06:14:46'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I am just going to say at this point that it would be a good idea to distinguish
    between the voiced 'th' of 'this' and the unvoiced 'th' of 'thin'.\r\n\r\nThere
    are of course variants of the Latin alphabet (such as those used by Icelandic
    and Turkish) that include letters to represent those sounds, but I'm guessing
    we should stay away from those letters?"
  created: '2006-03-22 06:45:47'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Shellfish.gif]\r\n\r\nHere's a sketch
    of my attempt at the characters (UC and lc) for 'sh'. I can't think of natural
    shapes for the other characters yet."
  created: '2006-03-22 09:38:09'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Well, I was going to say that we don't need to design new Latin-alphabet
    characters for 'th', because we already have them; the thorn (&thorn;) and edh
    (&eth;). Why avoid them? (By the way, I think we should reintroduce these; they'd
    be great for texting, wouldn't they? I'd much rather see 'the' rendered as '&eth;e'
    than 'da'...)\r\n\r\nStill, for 'sh' I thought I'd cross the integralesque curled
    long s &#643; (used in the IPA to represent 'sh'; hmmm, to see that you'll need
    a Unicode-happy browser) with the Pitman shorthand hook thing for sh, to give
    a sort of swung s.\r\nAnd for 'ch', maybe adapt the Cyrillic &#1095;, but give
    it a longer, right-pointing tail so as to avoid any potential confusion with u,
    y or &micro;...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chopsticks.png]\r\n______________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2006-03-22 11:40:48'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "I thought the point of the exercise was to design new characters. There simply
    are too many options already available if we just want to adopt existing symbols.\r\n\r\nFor
    the voiceless 'th', we have the Greek theta (\u03B8) as well as the thorn (\xFE).
    We could also drag out the appropriate symbols from ancient Hebrew or Arabic.\r\n\r\nFor
    the voiced 'th', in addition to the edh (\xF0), we have variants like '\u0111',
    or we could use the Greek delta (\u03B4) in reflection of the Modern Greek pronunciation.
    Again, ancient Hebrew or Arabic symbols could be used.\r\n\r\nFor 'sh', the symbol
    '\u0161' is used in some Central European languages, '\u015F' in Turkish and other
    languages, and '\u0219' in Romanian. The IPA and some African languages use esh
    (\u0283). Cyrillic has sha (\u0448), and Hebrew and Arabic have corresponding
    letters.\r\n\r\nSimilarly, for 'ch' we have '\u010D' and '\xE7', '\u02A7' in the
    IPA, che (\u0447) in Cyrillic, and so on and so on.\r\n\r\nSo I've been trying
    to devise alternative extensions to the Latin alphabet that avoid those existing
    solutions. For example, my 'sh' comes from imagining: what if mediaeval scribes
    added a fancy swish to the long s to represent the 'sh' sound and that eventually
    evolved into its own character? I find it really difficult to come up with reasonable,
    logical, natural-to-write characters that already do not look like some existing
    symbol in the IPA, for example."
  created: '2006-03-22 13:06:07'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "Not to be rude about this, but using pre existing characters defeats the
    purpose of the exercise. Not to mention the close resemblance to other common
    characters where the sentence reads \"I pink dese upsticks are too sort\". Aside
    from the \xF0 character the rest could simply be mistaken for one of the other
    26 alphabet characters, depending on the stroke of the person if this were written
    out as opposed to typeset. IMO, that's were the proposed solution fails."
  created: '2006-03-22 13:43:09'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Fair enuff...   :-(\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 13:55:41'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: :)
  created: '2006-03-22 14:35:04'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Not to mention the close resemblance to other common characters where
    the sentence reads \u201CI pink dese upsticks are too sort\u201D. Aside from the
    \xF0 character the rest could simply be mistaken for one of the other 26 alphabet
    characters, depending on the stroke of the person if this were written out as
    opposed to typeset.</em>\r\n\r\nI think this will be unavoidable. If you put any
    unfamiliar character shape in with familiar ones, it's natural to try to interpret
    it as a letter you already know. This works to your advantage when you are designing
    a logo.\r\n\r\nSomething else to consider is how the new letters would be written,
    either printed or longhand, or even in a calligraphic hand. I think you need to
    figure that out before playing with typographic forms.\r\n\r\nSo far, I think
    Brian's sh (Shellfish) works the best. I didn't have any trouble reading it. I
    think it's because it retains the ascenders we are used to seeing in the word.
    I'm not sure how it would work in handwriting, though, and I don't think the capital
    form looks like a capital. I though it was a lowercase variation until I read
    the explanation."
  created: '2006-03-22 15:57:32'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "As I see it, the challenge here is this: letterforms just don't follow phonetic
    logic; they are pure symbols in that they do not visually depict anything from
    the real world.\r\n\r\n(I'm told that devanagari scripts actually do relate to
    the shapes the mouth makes when pronouncing their related phonemes, but I have
    gone over and over them without seeing any such relationship...)\r\n\r\nMy idea
    was to start with some majuscule ideas that obey the \"rules\" of the first carved
    Roman characters (mostly rectilinear, with a few curves, serifs to facilitate
    chiseling) and that don't easily get misread as other characters. From there,
    hand-writing the majuscules over and over (starting at the upper-left) should
    give a good idea of how such characters might have developed over time into minuscules...
    at least, that's my hope."
  created: '2006-03-22 17:00:45'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/crbattle_shinto.png]'
  children:
  - author:
      name: wysong
    body: "Great contrast!\r\n\r\n-_- Marty"
    created: '2006-04-01 06:00:10'
  created: '2006-03-22 23:42:33'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "That's a good and logical solution, except that as someone who deals with
    the IPA a lot, I can't force myself not to see the 'hooked h (\u0266)' symbol
    used for the voiced version of the 'h' sound. Curse you, IPA, for using nearly
    every simple variant of Latin glyphs as symbols."
  created: '2006-03-22 23:56:51'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: Interesting to see Christian's result, because I was doodling earlier and
    I came up with the same hooked h design for "sh". I couldn't come up with any
    good ideas for any of the other sounds though so I gave up.
  created: '2006-03-23 01:46:51'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/newroman.gif]'
  created: '2006-03-23 02:15:58'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Thinkthoughts.png]\r\n\r\nI'm happier
    with the 'sh' and the voiced 'th' (as in 'The feather') than with the 'ch' and
    the unvoiced 'th'. I'm aware that the unvoiced 'th's look like '5's.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    here's the doodling that inspired the letters:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Thinkdoodle.jpg]"
  created: '2006-03-23 04:27:55'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: hrmm... i know i don't post much, but i was going to jump in on the type battle
    this week. i feel that my knowledge is not of the caliber that will allow me to
    do so. if anyone might point me in a direction that would perhaps give me so inspiration
    or more knowledge on these specific characters, it would be great. I checked the
    old wiki already. all in all though, good stuff so far for those who posted. maybe
    i will play next time.
  created: '2006-03-23 05:08:21'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "So the caps don't match Minion yet, and all the characters have some weight
    issues... Still, I'm satisfied that these new characters aren't easily misread
    as others; if I had learned them as a kid I could probably read this (?)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dipthongs-dg2.png]"
  created: '2006-03-23 14:11:56'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "i know it always appears a bit easy to jump in without contributing something
    myself, but that task is really an interesting one\u2026\r\n\r\nThe alphabet,
    or, to be more precise, language and letters, as it's materializatipon/physis,
    as a collection of symbols, is so deeply implemented in our brains that it appears
    so hard hard to just invent something new. As Mark Simonson rightly states, when
    reading a text you're expecting to find letters that are familiar, you WILL try
    to interpret anything you don't know as something that you know. And if you go
    down the 'phonetic' alley, you'll (inevitably?) end up with something that at
    least seems to be a ligature*: If you want to make it \"readable\" at first sight,
    it has to resemble something that you know, if you invent something completely
    new, readers will have to learn it first. Remember, we can't read when we are
    born, we have to learn that system first, thus anything remotely new will have
    to be learned too \u2013  prior to the ability to read and interpret it as intended.
    And if you can live with that, almost anything is possible that fits in with the
    latin script system (or any other, for that matter)\r\nbut anyway, that is not
    meant as being demotivating, i'm just wondering if it can be done at all and what
    the task actually means. But the proposals above are surely highly interesting.
    keep em coming!\r\n\r\n* for example, i, being german, did interpret the proposal
    of an hooked lc h as a ligature of the outdated long-s (see german dbls) and an
    ordinary h. And another one above made me think of the indefinite symbol instantly."
  created: '2006-03-23 17:32:15'
- author:
    name: Christian Robertson
    picture: 109415
  body: "Exercises like this are always going to be an uphill fight. In the competitive
    environment of symbols, established symbols have an obvious advantage. Not only
    does the individual reader have to rewire their brain to interpret the new symbol,
    an entire community has to do the same.\r\n\r\nSo for this exercise the designer
    has to consider three things: 1) How well will this thing work once the reader
    has been trained, 2) How hard is it for the reader adopt, 3) How strong are the
    readers motivations to adopt the new notation.\r\n\r\nIn this case, it's obvious
    that there is no motivation for english speakers to change the way they notate
    ch th and sh. However, the exercise forces the designer to step back from their
    training as readers and start to look at the letterforms more abstractly. The
    designer has to retrain his/her brain to read the new characters and evaluate
    their performance. There are other ways to get this more abstract perspective.
    One way is to study other writing systems. Another is to simply turn your native
    writing system upside down.\r\n\r\nThe designer also has to consider how users
    will learn the new characters. Will they be intuitive (based on the community's
    shared past experience) or will they force the user to learn something new?\r\n\r\nAn
    interesting recent example of a community adopting a new system of writing are
    the l337 h4xx0rs who invented a new notation for online chatter. While many of
    the character/word substitutions resemble traditional notation, much of it is
    impossible to decipher without some training. In this case, there was sufficient
    motivation for users to train themselves in the new notation (no one wants to
    be a n00b), and it was widely adopted."
  created: '2006-03-23 20:00:25'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: '@ christian: Could you post a link to some more info on the I337 h4xx0rs.
    I am familiar with some internet lingo from other message boards, and the whole
    number substitution deal is not that new to me. I always just thought that is
    was something obscure though, and not widely used. I guess I am still a internet
    meme n00b.'
  created: '2006-03-23 21:03:12'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: "@ pica pusher: you seem to really be making the most of this type batter.
    I am have been really interested in the characters that you have developed. On
    the whole, my only comment would be that your character that represents the \"th\"
    sound, resembles <strong> &#8734;</strong>\r\n\r\nNot sure if that occurred to
    you, and its not a criticism either, just conjecture.\r\n\r\nP.S.- I could not
    get that silly ASCII character to render any larger with the typical font attribute
    tags. Can anyone site how exactly I might do this, and yes, I did already check
    the formatting page. I not the HTML/XML guru, but I can get around for the most
    part."
  created: '2006-03-23 21:17:24'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gemalt2.GIF]\r\n\r\nJust a thought that
    occured. "
  created: '2006-03-23 21:42:39'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Fwiw,\r\nI played around with a rasterized t & h in this font and came up
    with this. It is close to a ligature, but it is the farthest I want to get from
    what is familiar at this time.\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-03-23 21:44:09'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thplay.png]'
  created: '2006-03-23 21:44:56'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: "h4ck3r5 f1r57 5t4r73d u51n6 num3r41s 1n5734d 0f 13773r5... aw screw it\r\n\r\nhackers
    first started using numerals instead of letters to avoid email watchdog programs
    which took their cues from search strings. Probably unnecessary example: if you
    wrote in your email \"Here's how to hack into xyz government office\" that email
    might be caught by a program looking for the string \"hack into\" but if you wrote
    \"H3r3'5 h0w 2 h4x 1n70 xyz g0v3rnm3n7 0ff1c3\" your email would slide right through."
  created: '2006-03-23 21:46:50'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: "this is my first ever try. i think that it resembles an \"s\" a little too
    much still. originally it was not cantered, but then i changed it back, as the
    font i based its letterform off of was an italic face. oh well. so much for a
    first try.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mishmash.png]"
  created: '2006-03-24 05:48:39'
- author:
    name: dishdesigner
    picture: 111471
  body: "Gosh, hats off to all who've submitted so far.....lots of smart stuff and
    fun to read! So, here's my $0.04.\r\n\r\nI agree with Jongseong that in addressing
    this problem you must consult existing diacritical marking systems and alternative
    alphabets like IPA. Jongseong also rightly points out that singular new glyphs
    for these consonant clusters would fail to encompass voiced and non-voiced pronunciation
    variants, and after all, the problem as stated asks us to represent the \"sounds\"....\r\n\r\nBut
    we may be losing sight of the fact that extended IPA and other sound-based alphabetic
    systems have never been adopted as working alternatives to the Latin alphabet
    for daily use in any country. Why? Because they're too complex. Too many characters.
    They are only useful and necessary for linguistic specialists, typographers, and
    singers.\r\n\r\nThe beauty of what the Greeks did in simplifying their alphabet
    was to make learning accessible to all people. Alphabets before had so many characters
    and intricacies that only priests, scribes, and the wealthy and well-educated
    could read. Reducing the number of characters was critical to the democratization
    of written communication.\r\n\r\nAlong with that reduction comes a fair amount
    of abstraction. You must now rely on context (and some learning) to infer the
    intended pronunciation of consonant clusters and other language elements.\r\n\r\nBut
    I disagree with 'pica pusher' that letterforms are so abstract and unconnected
    to phonetics that they don't represent anything in the real world. Take the letter
    'v' for example, and its origins in the diagram for an ox plow, indicating that
    its oneiric function includes pushing, reworking, molding, incising, carving,
    etc.....\r\n\r\nMany people have written about the mystical representative aspects
    of our Latin letterforms' evolutions. We should not forget that most of our letters
    did indeed evolve from the need to represent real objects, forces, phenomena and
    ideas (regardless of whether those connections are still relevant to the modern
    world).\r\n\r\nGiven all this, my answer is that it is simply not necessary to
    propose distinct new Latin letterforms for these three sounds beyond the existing
    IPA. First, they would never gain everyday usage anyway; and second, this would
    set a dangerous precedent in frivolously adding characters to the alphabet to
    represent sounds directly which begs the question: why not then have a symbol
    for EVERY possible sound and consonant combination? Then we're right back to an
    alphabet too complex to easily learn and down comes written language!\r\n\r\nInstead,
    I propose what I think is more appropriate: merely a new diacritical marking that
    could indicate a consonant's coupling with \"h\".\r\n\r\nI quickly analyzed which
    characters used diacritical variations to the basic Latin letterforms for sound-based
    representation in non-English languages so as to avoid duplication. I focused
    on diacritical \"pairs\": the caron / circumflex, the acute / grave, and the macron
    / breve.\r\n\r\nMy aha! moment came in noticing that of those couples, only the
    macron / breve are actually different marks instead of simple formal inversions
    or reflections of the same mark. The macron and breve are used to indicate long
    and short vowels respectively. So, I thought, why not have a mark that indicates
    \"long consonants\"?\r\n\r\nI also noticed that inverting the breve captures very
    compactly the most distictive formal part of the additive \"h\", the upper part
    of the bowl. I am not sure of any significant language usage of the inverted breve
    outside of logic symbolism, poetry scansion marking, or music (the dotted 'fermata').....as
    for naming, I thought it appropriate to invert the Italian 'breve' to 'esteso':
    succinct or short to extended or long.\r\n\r\nA couple notes:\r\n\r\n1. I thought
    it odd that they asked for 'ch', 'sh', and 'th', but not the significant 'ph',
    so I included it here, even though it's not really needed to clarify a distinct
    sound: the simpler 'f' does that. But still, adding the 'h' modifies the 'p' consonant
    sound....\r\n\r\n2. I left it at those four characters because after consulting
    the Oxford English dictionary (I have the searchable CD-ROM version, which totally
    rocks...), I felt there were no other significant added-h variants that produced
    new sounds. Other consonant examples with added h's that don't really affect pronunciation:
    lhasa-apso = \"lasa\", khaki = \"kaki\", jhula = \"jula\", rhodium = \"rodium\".......perhaps
    a nod to 'z' and Eastern European languages for \"druzhina\" and the like?.....it
    would be easily drawn.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TypeBattle_2006week9_01.gif]"
  created: '2006-03-24 10:50:35'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "Hmm. I think we're looking for characters, not a new system of diacritical
    marks (although the distinction is not always clear-cut). Also, when we talk about
    the 'sounds' represented by writing systems, we usually mean phonemes, theoretical
    units distinguishing meaning in a language that actually encompass a range of
    different sounds. The 'p' sounds in 'post', 'spot', and 'stop' are all different
    sounds (and careful IPA transcriptions will distinguish those), but are all manifestations
    of a single underlying phoneme represented by the letter 'p'.\r\n\r\nTheoretically,
    there should be a one-to-one correspondence between the phonemes and the symbols
    in an alphabetic system. In practice, there can be differing analyses of what
    the phonemes are in a language. Also, there are solutions meant to reduce the
    number of symbols necessary to represent the phoneme inventory of a language.
    The h-digraphs in English are an example, as is the practice in some languages
    of doubling letters to represent long vowels (if you recognize short and long
    vowels as separate phonemes).\r\n\r\nI was making the distinction between the
    voiced and unvoiced versions of 'th' because they represent different phonemes
    in English, as evidenced by the minimal pair 'loath' and 'loathe'. The only difference
    in the pronunciation of those words is whether the sound represented by 'th' is
    voiced or unvoiced, so we know this is a meaningful distinction in the English
    language. Of course, it is possible to analyze the situation differently and say
    that there's a 'silent e' phoneme at the end of 'loathe' whose effect is to make
    the 'th' voiced, so it is a matter of opinion whether the two 'th's are separate
    phonemes or not.\r\n\r\nDiSH, you might be surprised to learn that several African
    languages have actually adopted IPA symbols for their native phonemes. You say
    IPA has too many characters, but that's because it's meant to transcribe the countless
    sounds used in any natural language. Different languages have different ways of
    organizing sounds as phonemes, so the IPA has to be provide for all those possibilities.
    But the writing system of a given language only has to take the native phoneme
    inventory into account, so it will be much, much simpler. A given language will
    typically have between twenty to fifty phonemes, a few dozen tops. That's why
    most European languages have done well adopting the twenty-odd symbols of the
    Latin or Cyrillic alphabets. With the judicious introduction of digraphs, trigraphs,
    diacritical marks or ligatures, all the phonemes of a language can be written
    with the existing symbols.\r\n\r\nIf a new alphabet for English were to be created
    from scratch from IPA symbols on the one-symbol-per-phoneme basis, it would be
    entirely manageable. Making new symbols for 'th', 'sh', and 'ch' makes sense,
    because the sounds they represent count as separate phonemes in most analyses.
    (They are not 'long consonants'; English doesn't make long consonant distinctions,
    and the 'th' sound is certainly not a long version of 't', etc.) A new symbol
    for 'ph' wouldn't make sense, because it's just a historical variation of 'f'
    for words of Greek origin based on Latin spelling (notice how Spanish for example
    replaces that digraph with 'f'). No-one would seriously advocate new symbols for
    every consonant combination, because most consonant clusters in English would
    be analysed as combination of multiple phonemes. So applying the one-symbol-per-phoneme
    scheme would not lead to 'an alphabet too complex to easily learn'. It would certainly
    not be more complex and difficult to learn as the current system of English spelling.\r\n\r\nI
    hope I explained clearly enough why this is not an arbitrary exercise but one
    that makes sense (as opposed to, say, designing characters for 'st', 'rs', and
    'mn'). There's no reason for English not to have a separate symbol or two for
    'th' other than that Latin (for which the alphabet was devised) didn't have the
    sound and lacked a dedicated symbol for it. If Latin didn't have the 'f' sound,
    the letter wouldn't have existed and we probably would have to do with something
    like the 'ph' digraph for the sound in English as well."
  created: '2006-03-24 12:49:08'
- author:
    name: pica pusher
    picture: 111287
  body: 'Apologies; I didn''t mean to suggest that written language has no iconographic
    basis - just that it naturally develops away from visual representation. Imagine,
    for example, V was actually a detailed silouhette of an ox-plow. Apart from the
    readability issues, the symbol would actually become <em>less</em> meaningful
    because, seeing it, one couldn''t help but think "ox plow" and not "V." Note,
    too, that there is absolutely no relationship between V and F, although both are
    nearly identical phonetically (labiodental fricatives). This strong visual difference
    between phonetically similar characters is key to alphabets'' power, because it
    makes reading similar-sounding words easier. As I see it the same logic can be
    applied to these new characters: if the new character foo looks like an SH, a
    reader will think "SH" and not "foo."'
  created: '2006-03-24 13:28:09'
- author:
    name: dishdesigner
    picture: 111471
  body: "Jongseong and pica pusher:\r\n\r\nDelightful! Your insights are inspiring.
    What complexity lies beneath such a simply stated question...\r\n\r\nJongseong:
    Thanks for the IPA lesson. The Wiki articles for <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/H\">\"H\"</a>,
    <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Digraph_%28orthography%29\">\"digraphs\"</a>,
    and <a href=\"http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Trigraph_%28orthography%29\">trigraphs</a>
    were all illuminating after reading your response.\r\n\r\nBut does your statement,
    \"with the judicious introduction of digraphs, trigraphs, diacritical marks or
    ligatures, all the phonemes of a language can be written with the existing [Latin]
    symbols,\" support my point that a diacritical solution may be enough here? Do
    new characters for 'sh', 'ch', and 'th' save us enough work to justify the imposed
    learning curve? Or, is it your position that the learning curve would actually
    be lower in the long run since people would no longer have to assimilate digraph/trigraph/diacritical
    \"band-aid\" solutions and thus spelling complexities?\r\n\r\nPica pusher: a nice
    point about the abstraction of a letterform reducing its specificity (and therefore
    increasing its general symbolic power) and its need for visual difference, even
    from phonetically similar characters......\r\n\r\nOK - 12 hours left...I'll give
    new characters a go tonight!"
  created: '2006-03-24 19:23:26'
- author:
    name: dishdesigner
    picture: 111471
  body: "By the way, Jongeong: can you post the careful IPA transcriptions you mentioned
    of the different \u2018p\u2019 sounds in \u2018post\u2019, \u2018spot\u2019, and
    \u2018stop\u2019? I'd love to see them....."
  created: '2006-03-24 19:33:32'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Pasted together from Aichel\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/sssss.png]"
  created: '2006-03-24 20:06:50'
- author:
    name: 3d5
  body: "Hi, I'm still a noob here, but hey I can give it a try :)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/letters2.png]"
  created: '2006-03-24 21:42:16'
- author:
    name: Jongseong
    picture: 111444
  body: "DiSH, a diacritical solution certainly would not only be enough, but quite
    logical and natural. In fact, I think several shorthand notations already replace
    h-digraphs with diacritical marks. But such a solution just wouldn't be as interesting
    and fun as designing whole new characters.\r\n\r\nIPA transcriptions can be as
    detailed as the amount of phonetic information you want to include. I've seen
    some examples of 'narrow' transcriptions and the details included there are phenomenal.
    I'm not trained for such detail, but since you ask I'll just give transcriptions
    that are just enough to distinguish between the phonations of 'p' in 'post', 'spot',
    and 'stop' (I hope these display on your browsers). The 'p' in 'post' is the aspirated
    [p\u02B0]. When it occurs in the combination 'sp' as in 'spot', it is unaspirated,
    so it is most often written simply as [p], although the Extended IPA probably
    provides for detailed transcriptions of the state of the glottis if one gets to
    that. The pronunciation of 'p' in 'stop' varies tremendously according to speaker
    and whether one is pronouncing carefully. An unreleased [p\u031A] is most frequently
    heard, but I guess it could be [p\u02B0] in careful pronunciation (i.e., you would
    hear the 'puff' of 'p' at the end). It could be reinforced with a glottal stop,
    especially in British English: [\u0294p]. And in general, you can probably add
    a mark below ([p\u033A]) to indicate that the English 'p' is apical in terms of
    articulation."
  created: '2006-03-25 01:25:16'
- author:
    name: dishdesigner
    picture: 111471
  body: "OK.........very late.....last try!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TypeBattle_2006week9_02.gif]"
  created: '2006-03-25 08:21:20'
- author:
    name: dishdesigner
    picture: 111471
  body: "BTW, thanks again Jongseong for your eye-opening IPA knowledge.\r\n\r\nI
    downloaded the IPA alphabet and was surprised to see that many diacritical marks
    have direct relationships to the character of voicing implied (like a \"central\"
    articulation or a \"breathy\" phonation)! So, I see how I was playing fast and
    loose with the idea of a \"long\" consonant and only looking at the formal qualities
    of the diacritical mark.....\r\n\r\nAnd thanks for the 'p' notation above.....that
    stuff is interesting to me because I'm also a singer. It's amazing to really peek
    under the hood and see what underlies spoken language, no?...much less try to
    visually capture that in letterforms.\r\n\r\nCheers!"
  created: '2006-03-25 08:29:15'
- author:
    name: jazzsammich
    picture: 110792
  body: "DiSH,  I can't help but see your sh as \"ls\", as in ISelly sells sealsells
    by the sealsore.\r\n\r\nI'm feeling pretty sealsore myself.\r\n\r\n--Jim K."
  created: '2006-03-25 18:21:50'
- author:
    name: dishdesigner
    picture: 111471
  body: "HA! Well, Jim, honey, you better get some salve for that and quick....\r\n\r\nI
    completely agree with your \"ls\" reading of the lowercase, but I see \"LS\" in
    the uppercase. But if you'll note, they also both bear a lot of formal associations
    to \"b\" and \"B\": note the upward curvature of the lowercase character's bowl
    as it connects to the stem versus the uppercase flat intersection, like \"B\"...\r\n\r\nI
    think it goes back to the discussions above showing that once an alphabet is learned,
    any new variants introduced will always first be compared to your learned mental
    pictures of the existing characters' shapes.\r\n\r\nFor example, if you didn't
    already know the alphabet, you might have a similar reaction to the letter \"d\",
    mistaking it for a \"cl\"...\r\n\r\nOthers noted above how hard it is to find
    any \"natural\" shapes for new characters like these that are easily drawn in
    handwriting (which is why I chose to render them in News Gothic - to not rely
    on serifs or much stroke variation for legibility), but that are also not too
    close to existing characters in either Greek, IPA, or other Latin-alphabet languages.
    It's very difficult.\r\n\r\nDid you see pica pusher's example above? They are
    lovely ideas, but again, it was pointed out that the proposed \"th\" is essentially
    the infinity symbol. And when using less 'natural' shapes, it looks to me like
    the \"Th\" and \"Sh\" are rather Cyrillic in tone. But, look at the proposed \"Ch\"
    -- it seems very natural to Latin alphabet languages to me in ease of rendering,
    similarity to existing character shapes, identification of the distinct 'C' and
    'h' forms, and overall character width. I think that one character is the most
    successful of all proposed.....props pica!\r\n\r\nThe real problem I have with
    the lowercase \"ch\" and \"sh\" shapes I proposed is that the counterforms create
    smaller and more detailed negative spaces than any other normal alphabetic characters.
    Therefore, when you squint at the example setting, these characters stick out
    because they are busier or fussier shapes than other characters.\r\n\r\nFun exercise
    though....a real brain stretcher."
  created: '2006-03-25 19:04:22'
- author:
    name: jazzsammich
    picture: 110792
  body: "Here's my entry into the fray:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Battle09post.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nThe
    letters Sham, Thay, and Chey.\r\n\r\nIn preparing these, I thought back to the
    last time that our alphabetic heritage had separate characters for these sounds,
    and attemped to retrace their evolution as if they had remained in use (or split
    into two separate letters, as with the case of Chi becoming Chey/X.)  \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Battle09evol.png]\r\n\r\n\r\nAs
    I was designing these characters, I paid special attention to their chirographic
    qualities.  That is to say, in order to be successful, the character had to be
    easily scrawled and still fit fluidly in the normal handwriting scheme, without
    being misinterpreted as any existing letters or letter combinations.\r\n\r\nA
    couple summers ago, I was preparing myself to do a series of art projects designed
    to investigate the question of what helps the brain recognize written non-ideographic
    language as being language vs. abstract symbols or squiggles.  The project was
    based primarily on the creation of pseudo-alphabetic or pseudo-abjadic writing
    systems: nonsense characters or scripts.  The project was put on hiatus due to
    financial constraints, and I haven't looked back at it since then.  I'm curious
    to look back now and see how these new characters compare with the older explorations.
    \ I suspect I probably came up with similar solutions back then."
  created: '2006-03-25 22:24:25'
- author:
    name: jazzsammich
    picture: 110792
  body: "Re: the proposed esteso...\r\n\r\nDarrin,\r\n\r\nWhat I'm having trouble
    understanding is what the esteso would accomplish that the caron doesn't do already.
    \ What is the difference between the caron letters and the esteso letters?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/esteso.png]"
  created: '2006-03-26 00:46:25'
- author:
    name: dishdesigner
    picture: 111471
  body: "Jazzsammich:\r\n\r\nYes, you're right: there would be no phonetic difference
    in say, Czech, between the caron and esteso I drew. I believe they even call the
    caron the hacek (pronounced soft 'ch'), no?\r\n\r\nBut, formally, I think the
    visual difference is significant in that the upper bowl of the added 'h' is diagrammatically
    captured, as if the 'h' were hiding behind the altered character and baseline-raised
    so as to be slightly visible.....but now that you mention it, there might be an
    interesting option to use the esteso 'c' to represent soft 'ch' in church since
    it relates to 'h', but then use the caron 'c' to represent hard 'ch' in choir
    since the caron relates to 'k'?!!\r\n\r\nI like your letters by the way.....They
    are unique enough to be distinguished from other alphabetic characters, and they
    don't capture awkward counterforms (see my complaint about my characters).\r\n\r\nBut,
    have you gone perhaps too deep in designing new letters as opposed to just new
    characters to represent specific sounds?\r\n\r\nThe more I read the careful wording
    of the question and the comments by Jongseong, the more I think the problem is
    simply to design characters that have a direct and unique correlation to these
    three sounds as stated (and clarifying which sounds exactly you're designing for:
    voiced versus unvoiced, etc.). They would probably only ever be used in analytical
    settings and not in daily writing as letters. Letters are more general than that;
    most letters can represent multiple sounds in different contexts and when combined
    in multiple digraphs and trigraphs.\r\n\r\nFor example, we still haven't solved
    Jongseong's complaint that your new 'chey' would need two characters to represent
    the 'ch' sounds in \"choir\" and \"children\" and 'thay' would need two characters
    to represent the 'th' sounds in \"they\" and \"thistle\".\r\n\r\nMy thoughts on
    your letterforms:\r\n\r\n1. Thay: Would there be potential confusion between the
    lowercase and an oldstyle 7 with a descender? Why not include the backward loop
    on the lowercase thay descender as shown in the uppercase and make it a formal
    cousin to q? (it's there in the medieval english too...)\r\n\r\n2. Chey: The turn
    in the uppercase descender not appearing in the lowercase descender seems odd.
    It's apparent in both cases of medieval english. In fact, I wonder if the uppercase
    chey needs a descender at all (other than to distinguish from a J with top bar)?....perhaps
    just cut it flat at the baseline and leave the lowercase descender flat too, further
    distinguishing it from the backward curled descender of lowercase thay?\r\n\r\n3.
    Sham: speaking of the chirographic qualities of the strokes - it seems that both
    the Greek and Medieval characters are drawn by first establishing the verticals
    and then adding a horizontal stroke with a downward curve. Your new letterform
    makes a change in this order by requiring one stroke to establish the second vertical
    and downward curve, a stroke that may be awkward to produce? Most bowled characters
    are drawn counter-clockwise (to wit: O is awkward for right-handers to stroke
    clockwise). The ones that are stroked clockwise (b,B,D,p,P,R) only require the
    right half of the circle to be stroked before connecting to a vertical stem. It's
    the drawing of a vertical line upward instead of stroking it downward that causes
    you to break a pencil lead.....\r\n\r\nFun stuff to look at, and thanks for the
    generous letterform etymology diagram to reveal your design thinking!"
  children:
  - author:
      name: jazzsammich
      picture: 110792
    body: "Darrin --\r\n\r\nThat's an interesting point about capturing the h or k
      in the shape of the diacritical mark... I hadn't looked at it that way before.\r\n\r\nWhen
      I first learned the caron, I learned it as the hachek in the context of learning
      Bosnian and Croatian folk songs.  For their soft 'ch', they actually have two
      diacriticals, the hachek for the ch as in church, and the acute for an even
      softer ch, made with the middle of the tongue instead of the tip of the tongue.
      \ It's not a difference most English speakers would identify automatically.\r\n\r\nAs
      to the nature of the assignment, I guess I was responding more to the \"latin
      alphabet\" part than the \"sounds\" part.  ;)   Perhaps in an alternate universe,
      Typophile Battle #9 is to design new characters for hard chey and unvoiced thay.
      \ :D\r\n\r\nAbout the specifics of the letterforms:\r\nThay:  There could totally
      be confusion between the lowercase and an oldstyle 7, but I imagine it wouldn't
      be any more than we already find with 0 and O.  The lowercase thay has most
      of its curve before the baseline, with a straight descender, where I think an
      oldstyle 7 would have a gentler curve to it.  I'm glad you noticed the analogy
      with q... I envision that the backware loop on thay would work in a similar
      way -- a viable option for script or display work, but absent from most text
      settings.  If I had a bit more time on my hands, I'd post an example.\r\n\r\nChey:
      Chey also has analogies to Q.  Q has one of the only natural uppercase descenders
      in a roman face (with the exception of some faces that have a long J), so I
      gave Chey a similar sort of tail so Q wouldn't be so lonely.  Also, I think
      it works well to distinguish it from J with a top bar -- I think it changes
      the bouma enough to prevent easy misreading.  I think lowercase chey should
      probably remain loopless, though.\r\n\r\nSham: Somehow as a kid I learned to
      do my O clockwise despite my right-handedness, so it seemed like a natural stroke
      to me.  How is it that you do your vertical in D?  Bottom-up or top-down?  In
      my handwriting, I do a downstroke followed by an upstroke, THEN followed by
      the bowl.  Perhaps these are the sorts of individual peculiarities that help
      give designers their individual voices?\r\n\r\nThanks for the insightful commentary,
      Darrin!  This has definitely been my favorite battle so far.  It seemed to bring
      a lot of thought and debate to the surface in ways that the others haven't.
      \ Good work, everyone!  ^_^"
    created: '2006-03-28 16:58:19'
  created: '2006-03-26 23:35:13'
- author:
    name: verdiinpink
    picture: 111397
  body: "My tweak of Helvetica Neue Ultralight 25. Hope you like it.\r\n\r\n(Why can't
    I post a picture, even though I saved it in .png format already and the width
    doesn't exceed 600 px?)\r\n\r\nSo, please check have a look at this http://asia.pg.photos.yahoo.com/ph/verdi_55/detail?.dir=/dfc0&.dnm=171c.jpg&.src=ph
    \r\n\r\nand my scribble here at http://asia.pg.photos.yahoo.com/ph/verdi_55/detail?.dir=/dfc0&.dnm=1193.jpg&.src=ph\r\n\r\nIt
    would be nice if one of you guys help me post these two pics instead so that to
    avoid browsing away from this wonderful thread, please please ... (*-*)\r\n\r\n---
    pinky kinky winky ---"
  created: '2006-03-29 04:56:45'
- author:
    name: jazzsammich
    picture: 110792
  body: "Pinky --\r\n\r\nTake a look at the second item in the thread.\r\n\r\nIn the
    meanwhile, here are your images:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/171c.jpg][img:sites/default/files/old-images/1193.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-29 14:24:07'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I don't know about the typographic approach but the message is certainly
    inspiring\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-03-29 16:09:35'
- author:
    name: verdiinpink
    picture: 111397
  body: "Many thanks to jazzsammich\r\n... and I'm sorry with the taboo, don't mean
    to be rude but this phrase just came up to my mind.\r\n\r\n--- pinky kinky winky
    ---"
  created: '2006-03-30 02:32:21'
- author:
    name: Tomi from Suomi
    picture: 111488
  body: "Here is my contribution:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/suomishthsh.png]"
  created: '2006-03-31 10:25:09'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "This isn't for the contest, but the discussion. In English we have two redundant
    letters--q and k--and x is used not that much. In the current romanization Chinese,
    known as 'pin yin' the x is the 'sh' sound and the q is the 'ch' sound. And we
    could use k for the 'th' sound. 'ke cuick brown focs jumps over ke lazy dog.'\r\nHowever,
    this is not really the problem with English, as sh ch and th are really phonetic,
    though th has two sounds. I think the use of two letters are cleaner than all
    the accents in many languages.\r\n\r\nI like Tomi's 'th', the others are too wide--no
    gain.    "
  created: '2006-03-31 15:01:25'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Sorry for replying to a 4-month-old thread, but as a linguist, this thread
    intrigued me to no end.\r\n\r\nI've myself toyed with special characters for English
    sounds, often relying on IPA, antiquated symbols, or scripts like Shavian, although
    hardly with the creativity I've seen here.\r\n\r\nI think what must be abandoned,
    though, is the notion that the sounds represented by < ch >, < sh >, < th >, and
    < ph > are consonant + h clusters (PH is just another way of writing F, for one).
    I liked most the idea of using Cyrillic character adaptations, although dtw's
    <ch> looked more like the character for /ts/. \r\n\r\nAnyway, good job all, and
    maybe someday we'll get characters like \xFE, \xF0, and maybe even \xE6, \u0153,
    and \u01BF back into common use :D\r\n\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-07-11 13:33:45'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "4 months? Check the year, JT! LOL!\r\n______________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2008-07-11 15:02:44'
- author:
    name: jabez
    picture: 112785
  body: "This was really entertaining to read!\r\n\r\n<em>\"If you hit a wrong note,
    it\u2019s the next note that you play that makes it good or bad\" - Miles Davis</em>"
  created: '2008-09-01 14:02:38'
- author:
    name: jt_the_ninja
    picture: 115340
  body: "Ah well, 2006, 2008...same difference. I've never been too good with years
    and dates. That's why I didn't go into history...\r\n\r\n\r\nPeace,\r\nJT"
  created: '2008-09-02 13:29:22'
date: '2006-03-21 15:37:22'
title: 'TYPE BATTLE: Week 9 (20 March)'

---
