---
author:
  name: claes
  picture: 111435
body: "Pardon this newcomer if this is a question that has been asked all too many
  times, but what do you all think will be the next big thing in typography?\r\n\r\n..and
  maybe more interestingly, what would you WANT to be the next big thing in typography?\r\n\r\n\r\nOh,
  and it doesn't have to be related to any one specific aspect of typography either.
  It can be about technology, tools, specific design styles, printing techniques,
  etc. etc. Anything you can think of relating to the world of typography, really.\r\n\r\n\r\nLooking
  forward to some interesting answers!"
comments:
- author:
    name: Wouter Spaak
    picture: 110641
  body: Multi-lingual fonts. I'm dying for a couple of good cross-writing sans serifs.
    I'm working on a lot of cyrillic texts these days, and I can't find a whole lot
    of decent cyrillic sans serifs, that work well with my latin sans serifs.
  created: '2006-03-21 19:55:56'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "FontLab Robotic  - to reduce the labour costs of type designers:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sciencedaily.com/releases/2006/03/060307220709.htm\r\n\r\n\r\nP.S.\r\nIt
    will be released when it is ready  :)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-21 20:04:53'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "New trend: <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/18414\" target=\"new\">Pirate
    Type</a>.\r\nNew Release: ITC Avant Garde Gothic Super Pro Oblique II"
  created: '2006-03-21 20:52:36'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: <a href="http://photofont.com/">photo fonts</a>
  created: '2006-03-21 20:54:23'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Screen reading for most books, letterpress for the rest.
  created: '2006-03-21 21:14:23'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: Yeah, photo fonts... they're going to be one-offs (not robust systems) for
    quick and dirty concepts, posters, sites, etc. Because they'll be one-offs they'll
    also be cheaper.
  created: '2006-03-21 21:19:04'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\"what would you WANT to be the next big thing in typography?\"\r\n\r\nMe!
    \r\n\r\nJoking. I would like to see typography & typographer's taken much more
    seriously, like doctors for example. And the decay of arbitrary typesetting rules
    proposed in places like The Chicago Manual of Style. \r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-03-21 21:20:42'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "Photo Fonts:\r\n'Give a round of applause to the winner of the logo contest.'\r\n\r\nWhos'
    the  winner?"
  created: '2006-03-21 21:29:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Until there is an easy way to make photofonts read as actual text for search
    engines, they'll never become the norm for web design.
  created: '2006-03-21 21:47:02'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: ">FontLab Robotic\r\n\r\nthere is Robofab Fontlab... it rocks...magic since
    we've been waiting for a fraction maker for 20 years... and it's here, python
    baby!\r\n\r\nBlackletter is making a comeback."
  created: '2006-03-21 22:03:10'
- author:
    name: JonPhillips
  body: "Dunno about what will be the next big thing...\r\n\r\nHowever, I have some
    strong feelings about what should be the last big thing. And principal amongst
    these is the total disregard / lack of acknowledgement for the skills of the typographer.
    \r\n\r\nThis comes from two desperate experiences:\r\n\r\ni) When asked what I
    do for a living and answering 'I'm a Typographer', being confronted with the reply
    'What does that mean' or worse, 'so you do DTP'... jeez...\r\n\r\nii) Overhearing
    two 16 year-old chav secretaries debating whether Times New Roman or Verdana was
    the 'better looking' font.\r\n\r\nIf I'd had a length of rope, I'd have hanged
    them. Or, if they were too quick for me, I'd have hanged myself... :-)"
  created: '2006-03-21 22:15:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Flairs are the next big thing, its over due. I can see The Sans (flair)
  created: '2006-03-21 22:55:53'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "3D holigraphic type\u2026 able to be recognized at 360\xB0\u2026"
  created: '2006-03-21 23:25:32'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "i can't imagine photofonts being anything but a novelty at best. if they're
    based on pixels, i assume they'll be relegated to a certain size and well, that's
    pretty pointless.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\npersonally, to answer my own question, i'd
    like to see typefaces, particularly ones for text, becoming more random in that
    each letter might have a handful of small variations, and when you use it it'll
    randomize it and make the text feel more alive, like it did with the older manual
    printing techniques. it used to be more imperfect, but that's also what made it
    much more alive. i know the technology is getting there with randomization of
    letters, but as far as i know there aren't any typefaces (or programs) that have
    this.. it may not be the perfect solution to making the printed letter feel more
    living, but at least it'd be a step towards the right direction."
  created: '2006-03-22 00:55:13'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "Letterror has produced a few fonts with shifting anchor points. Maybe not
    exactly what claes meant, but close I think. I'm almost positive I read an article
    last year regarding another typeface that used shifting points to give letters
    a more unique feel. \r\n\r\nAlso the OT version of Ed Interlock has multiple characters
    included for a greater selection it also includes almost 1,400 ligatures and will
    auto-jumble the selection on the fly. \r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 01:33:27'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>i\u2019d like to see typefaces, particularly ones for text, becoming
    more random...there aren\u2019t any typefaces (or programs) that have this.</em>\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://typophile.com/node/17177\">Random Feature</a>\r\n\r\ntrue, this
    kind of thing is more desireable in script fonts moreso than text fonts. However,
    when I was putting together <a href=\"http://p22.com/products/Franklin.html\">Franklin
    Caslon</a>, I put together a quick font that although not really random simulated
    this kind of effect. (althought i'm sure i could make it more random with a bit
    more work). Here's a screen grab just for fun with some text set out of the box
    with my beta font. You can see that the supersmudged letters happen too regularly
    to make this really convincing.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/frankcaspdh.gif]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: claes
      picture: 111435
    body: "paul d hunt wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>\"true, this kind of thing is more desireable
      in script fonts moreso than text fonts. However, when I was putting together
      Franklin Caslon, I put together a quick font that although not really random
      simulated this kind of effect. (althought i\u2019m sure i could make it more
      random with a bit more work). Here\u2019s a screen grab just for fun with some
      text set out of the box with my beta font. You can see that the supersmudged
      letters happen too regularly to make this really convincing.\"</cite>\r\n\r\n\r\nyour
      image looks similar to what i was thinking about, although naturally the typefaces
      wouldn't have to look as well-used as your sample image does.. but yes, that's
      similar to what i was thinking. if some printers/punch-cutters had a dozen variations
      on many letters back then, and those printings are considered superior to what's
      done today then maybe having fonts with slightly varied letters through a randomizing
      function would be a way to try and emulate it.\r\n\r\nhow did you make that
      anyway? i thought it wasn't really possible to make Opentype fonts randomize
      (or rather, it's possible, just not supported)..?"
    created: '2006-03-23 19:58:37'
  created: '2006-03-22 01:34:11'
- author:
    name: "\u2022Prakash Nair"
    picture: 111459
  body: "\"I would like to see typography & typographer\u2019s taken much more seriously\"\r\n\r\namen
    brother."
  created: '2006-03-22 02:12:10'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I would like to see typography & typographer\u2019s taken much more seriously</em>\r\n\r\nwell
    then you better mind your stray apostrophes!"
  created: '2006-03-22 02:24:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have been having some fun with your Franklin Caslon Paul.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-22 02:36:58'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\"well then you better mind your stray apostrophes!\"\r\n\r\nI nevrt said
    I could riite! That s best lef tto the editr! \r\n\r\nDon;t get me started on
    capitals\u2026\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-03-22 05:07:56'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "'Never Mind the Full Stops'\r\n\r\nBBC4 makes quirky version of Buzzcocks\r\nGeoff
    White\r\n21 March 2006 09:08 \r\n\r\nBBC4 is making its answer to Never Mind The
    Buzzcocks - a highbrow panel show based on spelling and grammatical mistakes called
    Never Mind The Full Stops.\r\n\r\nPresented by Julian Fellowes, each week the
    quiz show will feature four celebrity wordsmiths looking at the quirks of the
    English language, with rounds on bad grammar and bad spelling.\r\n\r\nFellowes
    starred in BBC1's long-running drama Monarch of the Glen and recently presented
    Julian Fellowes Investigates: A Most Mysterious Murder for BBC1.He also wrote
    the screenplay to feature film Gosford Park, for which he won an Oscar, and wrote
    the best-selling novel Snobs.\r\n\r\nCommissioned by BBC entertainment commissioning
    controller Jon Beazley and executive editor for comedy entertainment Katie Taylor,
    the 10 x 30-minute series is due for broadcast in May. It is produced by Jo Street.\r\n\r\nNever
    Mind The Buzzcocks is a BBC2 show. \r\n\r\n\r\nSource:broadcastnow.co.uk\r\n\r\n\r\nTo
    contact Broadcast with a news story please call 020 7505 8040 or send an email
    to broadcastnews@emap.com\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 08:32:40'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"what would you WANT to be the next big thing in typography?\"\r\n\r\nMoney."
  created: '2006-03-22 12:55:39'
- author:
    name: elliot100
    picture: 110615
  body: "Correct me if I'm wrong, but Photofonts appear to require an ActiveX control
    to be viewed on a webpage, so can only be seen by MSIE users who have chosen to
    install that plugin. Given that limitation I can't see widespread adoption.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-22 13:44:47'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "\u201Cwhat would you WANT to be the next big thing in typography?\u201D\r\n\r\nWhy
    do you ask, isn't it big enough, I don't think a quantitative is the answer you
    look for."
  created: '2006-03-22 15:19:44'
- author:
    name: kris
  body: "\"Money\".\r\n\r\nChur.\r\n\r\n\u2014K"
  created: '2006-03-22 22:11:48'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "HRANT might just have the answer:\r\n\r\n\"with OpenType, and with some sophisticated
    linguistic analysis, a  font could very well ramp up readability by intelligently
    varying glyphs depending on context.\" (from another discussion)\r\n\r\nI could
    see that being a genuinely novel <em>and</em> feasible movement forward. Something
    like \"contextual\" adjustments to glyph shape, kerning, letterspacing, etc.,
    to the point that, say, whole words or phrases could be helped into line \"just
    so.\" Not to \"automate\" the art of the typographer, but to help and to open
    up possibilities (that's what technology is for, right?).\r\n\r\nIn any case,
    hasn't the whole \"randomness\" thing been done? I forget the specifics (ain't
    that the truth), but I recall a burst of enthusiasm for fonts that packed in some
    kind of algorithm that would cause the typesetting apparatus to produce randomly-varied
    letters.\r\n\r\nLet's learn from others' mistakes-- such as the \"postmodern\"
    typefaces that fused two or more fonts into a \"hybrid\" or \"pastiche\" (a favorite
    word of 1990s pomo theory). Nice theory, hideous type. Please no more of that.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-23 14:12:05'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "font companies selling stock photos? \r\n\r\nSAY NO TO STOCK PHOTOGRAPHY\r\n\r\ndon't
    by fonts from companies selling Stock Photography!!!! \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-23 15:19:35'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "^\r\nwhat about Veer?"
  created: '2006-03-23 17:33:33'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Should we veer away from them Vincent? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-23 18:03:16'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "This may be naive, but when I suggested they make more than one \"undo\"
    in Photoshop, I was bombarded by the experts, and told that it was not possible
    and that if I was good I wouldn't need more than one undo. That being said, here
    is my latest inanity:\r\n\r\nOpen Type has positions for multiple characters,
    so why not put alternates in the font, and get someone at Adobe (a can-do kind
    of person) to design a randomizing feature into some preset character spaces in
    In Design?\r\n\r\nAdmittedly I am beyond what I know anything about, but that
    usually doesn't stop me.\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-03-23 20:07:53'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>how did you make that anyway? i thought it wasn\u2019t really possible
    to make Opentype fonts randomize (or rather, it\u2019s possible, just not supported)..?</em>\r\n\r\nthe
    link in my previous post points to a thread that explains more on this. here's
    the link in case you missed it:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/17177\r\nbut the
    short answer is code hacking.\r\n\r\n<em>if some printers/punch-cutters had a
    dozen variations on many letters back then...</em>\r\n\r\nbelieve it or not, but
    type design is quite time consuming. even designing a handful of alternates for
    each character may be more tedium than most designers want to deal with. and then
    start mutliplying alternates with smallcaps, extended language support, typographic
    niceties and you quickly get an infinate range of possiblities that is easy to
    get lost in. I know i for one am not ready for that yet.\r\n\r\nto answer your
    initial question. my hope is that general pc (used in the personal computer sense
    not pc vs mac sense) users become more typographically aware once more programs
    begin to offer opentype support. but i'm afraid this is just a dream..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: claes
      picture: 111435
    body: "<cite>believe it or not, but type design is quite time consuming. even
      designing a handful of alternates for each character may be more tedium than
      most designers want to deal with. and then start mutliplying alternates with
      smallcaps, extended language support, typographic niceties and you quickly get
      an infinate range of possiblities that is easy to get lost in. I know i for
      one am not ready for that yet.</cite>\r\n\r\noh, i know it takes time having
      dabbled with fontmaking (though never really on the pro level). i don't really
      mean that the additional variations would have to be completely new letterforms
      though.. it could be simpler variations, smaller ones. just little differences
      that might make the printed word look more living.\r\n\r\nspeaking of code hacking
      and randomizing, i'm completely lost on that part.. i.e. i really need to learn
      Opentype. there just don't seem to be any good books (or websites) available
      for the completely newbie who knows absolutely nothing.. or at least i haven't
      found any.\r\n\r\nanyway, thanks for the good replies!"
    created: '2006-03-23 20:50:52'
  created: '2006-03-23 20:14:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>SAY NO TO STOCK PHOTOGRAPHY</em>\r\n\r\nBut saturating the market with
    bundled fonts is OK?"
  created: '2006-03-23 20:29:17'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "\u2026just for the record, there are multiple \"undos\" in photoshop:\r\n\r\n[OPTION]+[APPLE]+Z\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-23 20:38:39'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "There are now, but there wasn't when I brought it up. That was my point.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    can someone explain to me what is wrong with stock photography? I am not in the
    biz, so it seems like a strange thing to say."
  created: '2006-03-23 20:41:27'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: "> SAY NO TO STOCK PHOTOGRAPHY\r\n\r\n> don\u2019t by fonts from companies
    selling Stock Photography!!!!\r\n\r\nWhy?  Adobe or Veer? And what about illustration
    - stock art? "
  created: '2006-03-23 22:49:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vincent is a photographer incase you did not know. :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-23 23:20:41'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "that's like telling photographers to boycott online font retailers so that
    they can only buy custom type designs directly from type designers\u2026\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-24 00:04:16'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "<em>This may be naive, but when I suggested they make more than one \u201Cundo\u201D
    in Photoshop, I was bombarded by the experts, and told that it was not possible
    and that if I was good I wouldn\u2019t need more than one undo</em>\r\n\r\nJust
    in case this hasn't come up already: use the History palette. Forget undo's. Everything
    you do is listed in the History. Just click back to the point you want to go. "
  created: '2006-03-24 03:06:19'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: vincent, why so vehement versus veer for vending visuals?
  created: '2006-03-24 03:06:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nVery vell voiced Paul :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-24 16:10:22'
- author:
    name: Grant Hutchinson
    picture: 128153
  body: "Late to the party again... but didn't miss the buffet. Nice one, Paul.\r\n\r\nFor
    the record... I'm a photographer, a type designer, and I work for Veer. I wonder
    where that mix of apparent contradiction places me on Vincent's list?\r\n\r\nBack
    on topic for a moment:\r\n\r\nWhat I'd like to see happen in the world of typography
    is to have fewer type designers undervalue their work. So many good typefaces
    are being given away by their creators. Price them and license them accordingly.
    They're worth it."
  created: '2006-03-24 21:28:22'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: stock photos are the visual equivalent of Helvetica
  created: '2006-03-24 21:31:44'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> stock photos are the visual equivalent of Helvetica\r\n\r\nI have seen
    some killer \"stock\" photos. Does this mean that Helvetica is really, really
    good?\r\n: )\r\nI guess you are a proponent of having a great photographer on
    staff?"
  created: '2006-03-24 23:58:50'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> What I\u2019d like to see happen in the world of typography is to have
    fewer\r\n> type designers undervalue their work. So many good typefaces are being
    \r\n> given away by their creators. Price them and license them accordingly. \r\n>
    They\u2019re worth it.\r\n\r\nSpeaking as someone who doesn't have a lot of *extra*
    money lying around, and who can't write off *any* of this addiction, I am glad
    those people exist. Bless their hearts.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-25 00:21:41'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "The random stuff is in the OpenType spec, but not supported.\r\n\r\nI have
    posted code examples for a couple of different kinds of pseudo-random effects,
    over on the Adobe FDK User forum.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobeforums.com/OpenType%20Font%20Developers%27%20Kit%20(FDK)/160\r\n\r\n(Not
    sure if that URL will survive posting here - if not go to the forums and then
    select the OpenType FDK forum)\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-03-25 07:38:12'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Does this mean that Helvetica is really, really good?</em>\r\n\r\nYes,
    Helvetica is a really, really good typeface."
  created: '2006-03-25 11:57:07'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Yes, Helvetica is a really, really good typeface.\r\n\r\nGood for what,
    when? Helvetica is a good display face if not rendered stale by its presence everywhere--as
    is in fact the case now. It was always bad as a text face. "
  created: '2006-03-25 14:21:14'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Helvetica is a good multi-purpose family. There are three separate Helvetica
    families: Helvetica, Neue Helvetica, and the newer, smaller (just four fonts)
    Helvetica World. Helvetica World is good display family for global companies,
    as it has an enormous character set.\r\n\r\nBoth Helvetica and Neue Helvetica
    allow users to mix and match weights, widths, and styles in a way that few other
    families allow. Of course there are other alternatives, but Helvetica has built
    up such worldwide recognition and respect that there will always be jobs for which
    it is suitable. \r\n\r\nIt is the best typeface for every application? Absolutely
    not! No typeface can or should be all things for all people. But Helvetica is
    one of the biggest success stories in the history of typography. If it didn't
    have its own stylistic advantages, it wouldn't have been able to get so big."
  created: '2006-03-25 14:30:16'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Both Helvetica and Neue Helvetica allow users to mix and match weights,
    widths, and styles in a way that few other families allow.\r\n\r\nHelvetica and
    Univers may have been alone in these capacities when they first appeared. But
    I think that many of the typefaces done for newspapers and magazines now have
    these capacities. Look at the catalogues of Font Bureau and Hoefler & Frere-Jones--leading
    suppliers of these fonts--for many, many examples. The Fontfont catalogue has
    many also, like Meta. \r\n\r\nWhen you say 'multi-purpose' are you saying that
    Helvetica is a good text font for extended text in small sizes in print? I really
    don't think it is. Where did I read that Paul Rand told an employee of his not
    to set text in Helvetica? When the employee asked 'Why?' he said, 'Because it
    looks like dog sh*t in text.' \r\n\r\nI know I have repeated too many times that
    the combination of wide counters and tight spacing hurts readablility, but I haven't
    seen any counter-examples yet. "
  created: '2006-03-25 15:18:32'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>When you say \u2018multi-purpose\u2019 are you saying that Helvetica
    is a good text font for extended text in small sizes in print?</em>\r\n\r\nNo.
    There are multiple uses for typefaces in typography. Setting long, extended tracks
    of text is just one of the application for fonts. There are better typefaces for
    that than Helvetica. I think that that is pretty clear."
  created: '2006-03-25 15:58:04'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> So many good typefaces are being given away by their creators. \r\n> Price
    them and license them accordingly. They're worth it.\r\n\r\nOne more thought from
    a different view point: I personally have found that with the hobbies I have,
    once I start taking money for doing something, it takes a lot of the fun out if
    it, and puts more pressure on me. For free I can simply do my best and the people
    have got their money's worth. I am flute player (with electronic effects) and
    play for the fun of it. But I am able to fool people into thinking I am pretty
    good. And was recently making $8,000 a year playing a couple nights a week (coincidentally
    this was about the last time I could regularly afford to buy fonts). But I noticed
    that I was never satisfied with how I did, whereas *before* money was involved
    I'd do just as well and think: Yeah! That was fun!\r\n\r\nBut when I play for
    free there are musicians that get mad at me for taking the job away from a \"pro\"
    musician. Fact is I have never seen another musician do what I do anyway. Should
    I never get to do what I love to do because I don't want money for it?\r\n\r\nSame
    thing happens when someone asks me to help them with a graphics kind of thing.
    I am never satisfied and fiddle with it for so long there is no way anyone could
    possibly pay me for my time.\r\n\r\nPerhaps if I felt I knew what I was doing,
    it would help, but I am almost always winging it. It is, perhaps, the story of
    my life.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-25 16:02:14'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I wish one of my typefaces had so much success that it was thought of as
    overused. I am so jealous of Helvetica even though I have always preferred Univers
    to it since I first saw them both in the early 60s. I guess it is like people
    who hate the NY Yankees.  It bugs them that they win so much but everyone envies
    their success.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-25 16:05:43'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I wish one of my typefaces had so much success that it was thought of
    as overused.</em>\r\n\r\nWell, we hafta know where we can license them first,
    Dez!"
  created: '2006-03-25 17:40:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Point well taken Paul :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-27 18:41:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: so what's the answer, chris? where can we license your fine types?
  created: '2006-03-27 19:37:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: So, the next big thing in Typography is Helvetica?
  created: '2006-04-19 01:05:59'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I would hope that the next big thing would be more programs being able to
    access the extended characters in OT fonts. Otherwise  it could be like MM fonts.
    I thought that was a great idea, but it never caught on with the masses and died.
    At least that's how it appeared to me.\r\n\r\nI guess this would be the group
    that would know if my cynical side has any grounds in surmising that some group
    figured out that one font would replace gigantic set sales of things like Helvetica,
    so this must be killed."
  created: '2006-04-19 01:37:53'
- author:
    name: dtw
    picture: 110803
  body: "Yeah: get OT support into MS Office. Hidden away somewhere where you need
    to write your own VBA code to use it would be fine (possibly preferable, to stop
    the plebs going \"ooh, these ligatures and swash alternates look cool, let's switch
    them ALL on for EVERYTHING!\"), just so long as it's there. LOL!\r\n\r\n(Has anybody
    emailed mswish?)\r\n\r\nOh, and better typographical support in HTML (or at least
    in CSS): I want some well-supported CSS styles for decimal alignment, at least!
    (sorry but my job sees me looking at web versions of articles that started off
    in print and the tables in &#146;em frequently look &#146;orrible)\r\n________________________________________________\r\nEver
    since I chose to block pop-ups, my toaster's stopped working."
  created: '2006-04-19 13:38:54'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "The next big thing will be Segoe UI when Windows Vista is published!! :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Segoe
    UI.jpg]\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 14:24:53'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "\"can someone explain to me what is wrong with stock photography? I am not
    in the biz, so it seems like a strange thing to say.\"\r\n\r\nI am glad someone
    said it. Reading through this thread I see some asking for typographers and type
    designers to be recognised as quality professionals and asking for more money
    and yet supporting the use of stock houses.\r\nWhat is wrong with stock photography?\r\n\r\nPerhaps
    the following article written by world respected illustrator Brad Holland can
    answer that question better than I can.\r\n\r\nGive Us Your Work and We'll Take
    Your Clients\r\nby Brad Holland\r\n \r\nThe Gospel according to stock is that
    the bulk of stock house business comes from sales to clients who have previously
    used photography. There\u2019s no proof for this. We\u2019re supposed to take
    their word for it. But it\u2019s crucial to the stockman that illustrators believe
    it. We all know they\u2019re getting clients from somewhere. And if they\u2019re
    not taking them from photographers, they\u2019re taking them from us. That\u2019s
    why they claim they\u2019re \"expanding\" the market for illustration. How many
    of us would pay them to take pictures on consignment if they said, \"Give us your
    work and we'll take your clients?\"\r\n\r\nBut read an interview published in
    the September 1997 issue of Photo District News. There, you\u2019ll get a frank
    explanation of how a stockman works. In it, the CEO of a major stock photo house
    explains how they successfully lured clients away from freelancers. According
    to Henry Scanlon of the Comstock photo agency, their \"goal\" was to convince
    art directors to use stock for commercial assignments. To do this they had to
    persuade them to call the stock house instead of photographers when they needed
    work.\r\n\r\nUsing direct mail, they \"hammered away at the market.\" They flooded
    clients with catalogues. And, \"after a long struggle,\" they created a \"position\"
    for stock that, he frankly admits, \"decimated\" the ranks of assignment photographers.\r\n\r\nThis
    particular CEO can afford to be blunt now. He\u2019s branched out from stock into
    clip photos. And like other clip art sellers, he knows he\u2019s no longer dependent
    on photographers. A clip-art-man, he says, will \"have no trouble\" finding hungry
    photographers willing to \"flood the market with cliches.\"\r\n\r\nAnd what about
    the photographers he lured out of assignment work?\r\nWell, now he can say it:
    They were hacks, \"mere technicians,\" in his words, willing to do nothing more
    than copy the work of other photographers. And just as stock \"decimated\" assignment
    photography, now royalty free photos will \"decimate\" them. \r\nAs for stock
    photographers, he suggests they \"go to night school\" and find a new line of
    work. And good riddance, too. Disposing of the hacks, he says, will open up room
    at the top for \"real photographers\". The stockman sees himself as a cat that
    is ridding the house of mice.\r\nThe stockmeisters of illustration will say this
    happened in stock photography. They\u2019ll say it won\u2019t happen here. You\u2019re
    welcome to believe them if you like. But can you doubt they\u2019re following
    a similar strategy? \r\n\r\nIf stock illustration houses \"decimate\" the ranks
    of artists, it will surely leave room at the top for \"real illustrators.\" Those
    with superior talent, and resourcefulness and those who enjoy name recognition
    will no doubt continue as elite craftsmen. But what business can consider itself
    healthy that has room at the top for only a handful of well-paid professionals
    and room at the bottom for a gypsy workforce of grunt laborers, desperate enough
    to do whatever work a stockman doles out.\r\n\r\nWe can\u2019t presume to read
    the minds of the stock merchants who are now soliciting work from artists. We
    can\u2019t know how sincere they are when they contact you to say that they\u2019ve
    been following your career and they think you\u2019re ready for stock. Credit
    them, if you like, with the best of intentions. But remember that when you give
    a stock house your pictures, you give them your clients. And there\u2019s nothing
    in the contract you sign that says they ever have to give your clients back.\r\n
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 14:38:56'
- author:
    name: Caleb Ramsey
  body: 'Helvetica is predominant everywhere; so of course Helvetica sucks.  When
    something is everywhere it becomes, like Walmart: generic.'
  created: '2006-06-10 00:54:02'
date: '2006-03-21 19:37:24'
node_type: forum
title: What'll be the Next Big Thing in typography?

---
