---
author:
  name: claes
  picture: 111435
body: "I'm working on a typeface at the moment that uses plenty of ligatures (in the
  style of <a href=\"http://www.houseind.com/index.php?page=showfont&id=150&subpage=viewfontsinuse\">Ed
  Interlock</a>) and I'm wondering if there's any way to make certain ligatures be
  dominant over others? For example, for SHI I have an SH ligature and a HI ligature,
  and because SH comes first as you're typing, it turns into the ligature and the
  I is left alone. Without having to make an SHI ligature, can I make the HI ligature
  dominant over SH in the case of SHI?\r\n\r\nAnd pardon me if that makes no sense
  at all. I'm just curious if I can make certain ligatures bow down to more dominant
  ones.. If there's any code or such.\r\n\r\n\r\nAlso, while I'm here and asking,
  can you include spacebar in ligature replacements? Say, for example, you have an
  S and when it's at the end of a word (marked by a spacebar following the S) you
  want it to do a swashy thing, is that possibe? like a \"sub S [SPACE] by SSpace.li\"
  thing..?\r\n\r\nThanks!"
comments:
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "im sure zapfino OT has it, if you type the name all the glyphs change constantly,
    and there's even a full glyph just to write \"zapfino\" in a beautiful way :)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zapfino.png]\r\n\r\ni
    remember a gif showing it, but cant find it anymore. this image is a bit of a
    preview, as you see the glyphs change.\r\n\r\ni cant tell you how to do it, but
    its possible for sure."
  created: '2006-03-29 16:25:08'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "I think you can find some information on the personal site of <a href=\"http://www.talleming.com/\">Tal
    Leming</a>.\r\n\r\nA few threads: \r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/17177 -- http://www.typophile.com/node/6638 "
  created: '2006-03-29 17:02:11'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "whichever ligature you list first is dominat. so if you want HI to trump
    SH, in your liga feature put:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\nliga {\r\nsub H I by H_I;\r\nsub
    S H by S_H;\r\n} liga;</code>"
  children:
  - author:
      name: claes
      picture: 111435
    body: "are you sure about that Paul?\r\n\r\ni have the HI ligature earlier in
      the list than the SH ligature.. they aren't adjacent to each other in the list,
      so it seems (like i wrote above) that the ligature that's activated first (SH
      in this case) overrides any such list order.\r\n\r\n\r\nanyway, i'll check out
      those links."
    created: '2006-03-29 18:31:45'
  created: '2006-03-29 17:58:53'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What if you make 2 groups of liga features? would the first group trump the
    second?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-29 18:58:01'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>so it seems (like i wrote above) that the ligature that\u2019s activated
    first (SH in this case) overrides any such list order.</em>\r\n\r\nthe rule is
    what is first trumps what comes after. this is true of single lookups or of features.
    do you have the SH ligature lookup in any other feature lookups before you get
    to the HI ligature lookup?"
  created: '2006-03-29 19:01:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What about:\r\nsub SHI by S H_I;\r\n\r\n?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-29 19:04:18'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "what are lookups? *embarrassed*\r\n\r\nall i've got so far is:\r\n\r\nfeature
    liga {\r\nsub X Y by XY.li;\r\nsub ...\r\nsub ...\r\n} liga\r\n\r\nwith all the
    ligature replacements all under there.\r\n\r\nshould i STFU and RTFM? (;\r\n\r\ni
    only got FontLab yesterday, literally, so i am a complete newbie.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\noh,
    by the way the \"sub SHI by S HI.li;\" didn't work. it gave me an error message
    when i compiled."
  created: '2006-03-29 19:35:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: can you post your ligature featue exactly as you have it now? it'll be easier
    to spot problems that way.
  created: '2006-03-29 19:41:41'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "oh it's a complete disarray (i've basically added them on on top of another
    as i've made the ligatures.. no order at all). everything works though, i can
    compile and the ligatures work.. i'm just wondering if there are any other tricks
    to use which might put certain ligatures in a higher level of sorts and override
    other combinations.\r\n\r\n\r\nanyway.. here it is.\r\n\r\nfeature liga {\r\n\tsub
    R O by RO.li;\r\n\tsub E R T by ERT.li;\r\n\tsub H I by HI.li;\r\n\tsub L E Y
    by LEY.li;\r\n\tsub I T C by ITC.li;\r\n\tsub H U M by HUM.li;\r\n\tsub M A C
    by MAC.li;\r\n\tsub L A by LA.li;\r\n\tsub I N by IN.li;\r\n\tsub T W O by TWO.li;\r\n\tsub
    F O by FO.li;\r\n\tsub T H by TH.li;\r\n\tsub E E S by EES.li;\r\n\tsub A W by
    AW.li;\r\n\tsub E R by ER.li;\r\n\tsub L L by LL.li;\r\n\tsub H E by HE.li;\r\n\tsub
    R A by RA.li;\r\n\tsub K I by KI.li;\r\n\tsub W A by WA.li;\r\n\tsub E E by EE.li;\r\n\tsub
    H T by HT.li;\r\n\tsub L E by LE.li;\r\n\tsub E A by EA.li;\r\n\tsub O H by OH.li;\r\n\tsub
    H A by HA.li;\r\n\tsub T T by TT.li;\r\n\tsub M O by MO.li;\r\n\tsub O N by ON.li;\r\n\tsub
    N O by NO.li;\r\n\tsub H A M by HAM.li;\r\n\tsub L M by LM.li;\r\n\tsub L N by
    LN.li;\r\n\tsub U N by UN.li;\r\n\tsub W U by WU.li;\r\n\tsub R T by RT.li;\r\n\tsub
    W R by WR.li;\r\n\tsub E L by EL.li;\r\n\tsub F A by FA.li;\r\n\tsub I T by IT.li;\r\n\tsub
    I T I by ITI.li;\r\n\tsub T T A by TTA.li;\r\n\tsub A T T A by ATTA.li;\r\n\tsub
    R Y by RY.li;\r\n\tsub L O by LO.li;\r\n\tsub E H by EH.li;\r\n\tsub T S by TS.li;\r\n\tsub
    I T S by ITS.li;\r\n\tsub A T S by ATS.li;\r\n\tsub K A by KA.li;\r\n\tsub T W
    by TW.li;\r\n\tsub F F by FF.li;\r\n\tsub M O N by MON.li;\r\n\tsub N I by NI.li;\r\n\tsub
    O T T by OTT.li;\r\n\tsub S T by ST.li;\r\n\tsub S P by SP.li;\r\n\tsub E D by
    ED.li;\r\n\tsub U T by UT.li;\r\n\tsub D R by DR.li;\r\n\tsub L D by LD.li;\r\n\tsub
    F I by FI.li;\r\n\tsub B Y by BY.li;\r\n\tsub W I by WI.li;\r\n\tsub T O by TO.li;\r\n\tsub
    S H by SH.li;\r\n\tsub W R Y by WRY.li;\r\n\tsub E Y by EY.li;\r\n\tsub M A by
    MA.li;\r\n\tsub A N by AN.li;\r\n\tsub M A N by MAN.li;\r\n\tsub O W by OW.li;\r\n\tsub
    W S by WS.li;\r\n\tsub I P by IP.li;\r\n\tsub R U by RU.li;\r\n\tsub P R by PR.li;\r\n\tsub
    P R O by PRO.li;\r\n\tsub P R A by PRA.li;\r\n\tsub W N by WN.li;\r\n\tsub F R
    by FR.li;\r\n\tsub F R E by FRE.li;\r\n\tsub R E by RE.li;\r\n\tsub D U by DU.li;\r\n\tsub
    U C by UC.li;\r\n\tsub C K by CK.li;\r\n\tsub O Y by OY.li;\r\n\tsub O Y S by
    OYS.li;\r\n\tsub A Y by AY.li;\r\n\tsub A Y S by AYS.li;\r\n\tsub O F by OF.li;\r\n\tsub
    A T T by ATT.li;\r\n\tsub A V by AV.li;\r\n\tsub A V A by AVA.li;\r\n\tsub V A
    V by VAV.li;\r\n\tsub B E by BE.li;\r\n\tsub E S by ES.li;\r\n\tsub S N by SN.li;\r\n\tsub
    S N T by SNT.li;\r\n\tsub N T by NT.li;\r\n\tsub E N T by ENT.li;\r\n\tsub A P
    by AP.li;\r\n\tsub V O by VO.li;\r\n\tsub A T by AT.li;\r\n\tsub I V by IV.li;\r\n\tsub
    I V E by IVE.li;\r\n\tsub S U by SU.li;\r\n\tsub U B by UB.li;\r\n\tsub S U B
    by SUB.li;\r\n\tsub J E by JE.li;\r\n\tsub I E by IE.li;\r\n\tsub I E S by IES.li;\r\n\tsub
    I D by ID.li;\r\n\tsub U P by UP.li;\r\n\tsub I F by IF.li;\r\n\tsub T I by TI.li;\r\n\tsub
    T Y by TY.li;\r\n\tsub N T Y by NTY.li;\r\n\tsub Y T by YT.li;\r\n\tsub Y T H
    by YTH.li;\r\n\tsub F L by FL.li;\r\n\tsub F L A by FLA.li;\r\n\tsub F L O by
    FLO.li;\r\n\tsub F L E by FLE.li;\r\n\tsub N G by NG.li;\r\n\tsub I R by IR.li;\r\n\tsub
    U S by US.li;\r\n\tsub W A Y by WAY.li;\r\n\tsub T A by TA.li;\r\n\tsub A G by
    AG.li;\r\n\tsub E V by EV.li;\r\n\tsub E V E by EVE.li;\r\n\tsub V E by VE.li;\r\n\tsub
    E N by EN.li;\r\n\tsub V E N by VEN.li;\r\n\tsub V E R by VER.li;\r\n\tsub E E
    N by EEN.li;\r\n\tsub R M by RM.li;\r\n\tsub O U by OU.li;\r\n\tsub M E by ME.li;\r\n\tsub
    E M by EM.li;\r\n\tsub S T U by STU.li;\r\n\tsub U M by UM.li;\r\n\tsub U M P
    by UMP.li;\r\n\tsub M P by MP.li;\r\n\tsub A S by AS.li;\r\n\tsub Y P by YP.li;\r\n\tsub
    I T T by ITT.li;\r\n\tsub O R by OR.li;\r\n\tsub T R by TR.li;\r\n\tsub T O R
    by TOR.li;\r\n\tsub A D by AD.li;\r\n\tsub O T by OT.li;\r\n\tsub L O T by LOT.li;\r\n\tsub
    M B by MB.li;\r\n\tsub R N by RN.li;\r\n\tsub N A by NA.li;\r\n\tsub A N T by
    ANT.li;\r\n\tsub E T by ET.li;\r\n\tsub V A by VA.li;\r\n\tsub T E by TE.li;\r\n\tsub
    Y M by YM.li;\r\n} liga; \r\n\r\n\r\nshould the triple/quad ligatures be in their
    own section, or ordered above the doubles..? alphabetized perhaps?"
  created: '2006-03-29 19:51:15'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "a few suggestions:\r\n\r\nnaming: name a ligature of X & Y X_Y;\r\nput longer
    ligatures first so quads, triples and then doubles.\r\nif you have no preference
    of order, alphabetise ligatures just for easy (human) referencing\r\n\r\ndo you
    recompile your OT features after adding new lookups to test how they're working?
    you need to do this each time you change your code before you preview.\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-29 20:04:43'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "so it's better to use \"A_B\" instead of \"AB.li\" for the A B ligature?
    or it doesn't really matter?\r\n\r\nand yes, i promise to alphabetise in due time.
    right now i'm just adding them as a go along/come up with new ones and that means
    they're added in random chunks so i can see what i've go so far.. and yeah, i
    recompile after each (chunk) addition."
  created: '2006-03-29 20:51:17'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "Alphabetic ordering is for your own convenience. Ordering ligatures by length
    in descending order, however, is a generic rule. If f_f ligature would be in the
    list before f_f_i, latter one would never be substituted.\r\n\r\nBut ordering
    does not solve your problem of prioritization. If your lookup contains ligatures
    A_B and B_C, whatever goes first in the list -- \"A B C\" will be substituted
    to \"A_B C\". To allow B_C to work over A_B two separate lookups are required
    (or contextual substitutions, which seem to be overkill here). \r\n\r\nIn VOLT
    you create two lookups and put ligatures into them according to their priority.
    FDK also allows to specify separate lookup for the feauture, but I am not sure
    if it won't compile them into subtables of a single lookup. Syntax would look
    like this:\r\n\r\n<code>\r\n<dl>feature liga {\r\n<dt>lookup liga.Pri1 {</dt>\r\n
    \   <dd>sub B C by B_C</dd>\r\n<dt>} liga.Pri1;</dt>\r\n<dt>lookup liga.Pri2 {</dt>\r\n
    \   <dd>sub A B by A_B</dd>\r\n<dt>} liga.Pri2;</dt>\r\n</dl>} liga;\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-29 21:21:47'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "yep. i just reorganized the whole list, which should definitely make it much
    easier to overview and figure out which ligatures i should do next.. speaking
    of that, does anyone know of any free web tool that can sort lines alphabetically?
    (o: kind of a hassle to sort out all those lines alphabetically.\r\n\r\nbut anyway,
    Sergey, i will look into making priority lists. thanks for the tip!"
  created: '2006-03-29 21:45:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "TexEdit Plus\r\n\r\nhttp://www.tex-edit.com/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-03-29 22:25:43'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "thanks, i'll look that up.\r\n\r\n\r\nby the way, i've put up a sample of
    the font i'm working on (that this thread is in regards to). <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/18903\">here's
    the thread</a>."
  created: '2006-03-29 22:38:20'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "<em>oh, by the way the \u201Csub SHI by S HI.li;\u201D didn\u2019t work.
    it gave me an error message when i compiled.</em>\r\n\r\nsub S H' I' by S H_I.li;\r\n\r\nChris
    is right, but you have to tell it what is getting substituted in the string by
    adding ' after. Get an OpenType font and open it in FontLab and look at the code.
    That's the easiest way to figure it out.\r\n\r\nGeorge\r\n\r\nI felt bad because
    I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2006-03-29 23:45:36'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: aha! okay. i'll try that out as well. thanks for the help.
  created: '2006-03-29 23:54:53'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>But ordering does not solve your problem of prioritization. If your lookup
    contains ligatures A_B and B_C, whatever goes first in the list \u2014 \u201CA
    B C\u201D will be substituted to \u201CA_B C\u201D. To allow B_C to work over
    A_B two separate lookups are required (or contextual substitutions, which seem
    to be overkill here).</em>\r\n\r\nduh. i wasn't thinking. i shouldn't reply when
    i'm preoccupied."
  created: '2006-03-30 01:06:03'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "<em>feature liga {\r\nlookup liga.Pri1 {\r\nsub B C by B_C\r\n} liga.Pri1;\r\nlookup
    liga.Pri2 {\r\nsub A B by A_B\r\n} liga.Pri2;\r\n} liga;</em>\r\n\r\nIf you Type
    A B first I doubt the B C sub will work. The lookup for A B will kick in before
    you get to B C and if you don't have a sub for A B C you don't change anything.
    You should start with the sub of the long (complete) string first.  I think it
    should be:\r\n\r\nfeature liga {\r\nlookup liga.Pri1 {\r\nsub A B' C' by A B_C\r\nsub
    A B by A_B\r\n} liga.Pri1;\r\n} liga;\r\n\r\nOnce the B C sub is done the following
    A B sub won't change it since it's now A B_C, not A B C. It's the same as the
    f ligatures, f_f_i comes first, then f_i and f_f.\r\n\r\nAt least this is my understanding
    of how the GSUB works.\r\n\r\nGeorge\r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes, until
    I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2006-03-30 03:20:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>oh, by the way the \u201Csub SHI by S HI.li;\u201D didn\u2019t work.
    it gave me an error message when i compiled.</em>\r\n\r\nYou can't do many-to-many
    substitutions in OpenType. So if your input is multiple glyphs, then the output
    has to be a single glyph (i.e. a ligature lookup).\r\n\r\nRegarding ligature names,
    you should definitely use the underscore notation, so H_I, not HI.li\r\n\r\nA
    period . indicates that the glyph is a variant of a glyph, e.g. a.alt is an alternate
    form of a. But there is not HI glyph for HI.li to be a variant of.\r\n\r\nThe
    underscore _ notation is parseable by an application that implements the Adobe
    glyph naming rules."
  created: '2006-03-30 03:58:32'
- author:
    name: sergeym
  body: "No. Processing is going like this:\r\n<code>\r\nFor each lookup\r\nFor each
    position where lookup is applied,\r\nFor each 'rule' in the lookup.\r\nIf rule
    matches the context do what it says, move to the next position\r\nIf rule does
    not match the context, try next rule.\r\n</code>\r\n\r\nSo lookup order has higher
    priority than position. \r\n\r\nAbout your approach, it won't work because 'position'
    in your contextual substitution starts from B' (A is just backtrack context).
    So A_B will work first according to the algorithm above.\r\n\r\nIt also misses
    another entry for B_C ligature, without context. And this example contains only
    two ligatures, in the real font more contexts may be needed for ligatures conflicting
    with B_C -- looks like supportability case for me. Adding one ligature may cause
    changing everything around.\r\n\r\nThanks,\r\nSergey\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-30 04:32:20'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "i just tried out the\r\n\r\n\"sub S H' I' by HI.li;\"\r\n\r\ncommand and
    it works like a charm. very nice that it can do that without having to create
    a SHI ligature. it sure opens up a whole new can of worms (or possibilities) though,
    but at least now i know how to pull off that trick.\r\n\r\nthanks everyone for
    the help!"
  created: '2006-03-30 15:01:44'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Claes, \r\n\r\nstill, you should name your ligature H_I or H_I.li or H_I.liga,
    but *not* HI.li. It does matter. Please read the FontLab Studio 5 manual for extensive
    glyph naming suggestions. \r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nAdam Twardoch\r\nFontlab Ltd.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-01 02:10:09'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: 'i already did. (o:'
  created: '2006-04-01 02:50:36'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "i just thought i'd let you all know that i tested the use of seperate lookup
    groups, and it gives me just the effect i was looking for. if i place the H_I
    ligature in the top group and have the S_H ligature in the one below it'll override
    the S_H ligature and go to the H_I ligature even when writing SHI.\r\n\r\nso thanks
    again everyone who helped out! it's much appreciated.\r\n\r\n\r\nby the way, why
    isn't there some resource with examples of various effects one can achieve with
    Opentype? i had an idea about having the upper and lowercase alternate (LiKe So
    AnD sO oN, though i'd use it as a sort of randomizer), and i actually figured
    out how to achieve it eventually.. but it's stuff like that you'd wish there was
    some website resource for where people could send in their tricks and tips. too
    bad, really. very little about Opentype out there it seems, or everyone's sitting
    on their own coding and not wanting to share.. maybe? or wanting money for it,
    perhaps..\r\n\r\nuh.. anyway."
  created: '2006-04-03 03:00:28'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "Hi kesh!\r\n\r\nI found the image you were talking about: (its from Linotype.com)\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zapfino_teaser_d16957i97.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nBye:
    Steven"
  created: '2006-04-05 16:11:50'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "<em>by the way, why isn\u2019t there some resource with examples of various
    effects one can achieve with Opentype? i had an idea about having the upper and
    lowercase alternate (LiKe So AnD sO oN, though i\u2019d use it as a sort of randomizer),
    and i actually figured out how to achieve it eventually.. but it\u2019s stuff
    like that you\u2019d wish there was some website resource for where people could
    send in their tricks and tips. too bad, really. very little about Opentype out
    there it seems, or everyone\u2019s sitting on their own coding and not wanting
    to share.. maybe? or wanting money for it, perhaps..</em>\r\n\r\nYour best source
    is workshops at the conferences like SOTA and ATypI. People are happy to show
    you how to do stuff. Nick Shinn did one on stylistic alternates in a script font
    and Thomas Phinney has demoed some amazing stuff with relatively easy code including
    random things. He also has an OT font that replaces profanity in text.\r\n\r\nGeorge
    \r\nI felt bad because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2006-04-17 03:13:53'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "If your interested in learning more on this subject, there is still time,
    and there is still room at the <a href=\"http://tdc.org/events/2006events/2006stdcfonttech.html\">TDC
    Font Tech Weekend</a> starting this Friday evening.\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 03:22:36'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>Thomas Phinney has demoed some amazing stuff with relatively easy code
    including random things. He also has an OT font that replaces profanity in text.</em>\r\n\r\nAre
    you talking about Amy Papaelias' <a href=\"http://www.typetalkfonts.com/\">TypeTalk
    Fonts</a>?"
  created: '2006-04-17 12:35:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Amy showed her work at TypeCon NY last summer. She has a thread here somehere
    where she discusses it. Interesting stuff and she was an entertaining speaker
    as well as informative.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-17 12:55:58'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: "<em>you\u2019d wish there was some website resource for where people could
    send in their tricks and tips. too bad, really. very little about Opentype out
    there</em>\r\n\r\ntrue...and typophile's the best place for that on the web...\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.piclig.net/\">PicLig</a> by Christina Schultz is a great project
    too.\r\n\r\n<em>Thomas Phinney has demoed some amazing stuff with relatively easy
    code including random things. He also has an OT font that replaces profanity in
    text.</em>\r\n\r\nTom used the TypeTalk project as inspiration to build his example
    using some very excellent contextual alternates...and to think i wasted away hours
    upon hours of grad school making ligatures! :)\r\n\r\n<em>she was an entertaining
    speaker as well as informative.</em>\r\n\r\nthanks chris! it was a great experience,
    although i don't remember any of it (i was too busy being paralyzed with fear!)...BTW,
    we met briefly, i believe, when you and gerry leonidas were shaming me for my
    abysmal knowledge of Greek...\r\n\r\ni'll be making a short presentation next
    week at SUNY New Paltz (where I developed the typetalk project) on 5/5. see the
    promo poster...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/amy_intro_small.jpg]"
  created: '2006-04-25 03:24:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...BTW, we met briefly, i believe, when you and gerry leonidas were shaming
    me for my abysmal knowledge of Greek\u2026\"\r\n\r\nI remember it well. I was
    surely joking (which is most of the time in my case). My Greek vocabulary is very
    limited and I would be the last person to point shame at anyone else. I really
    did enjoy your presentation and your \"paralized with fear\" part did not show.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I just attended a Fontech session in NYC at TDC where Thomas Phinney was one of
    the presenters.  He was bragging on you and showing your work to some of the attendees
    who had not seen it. Your many hours in graduate school did not go in vein!\r\n\r\nHope
    you will be able to come to TypeCon Boston and join us all.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-25 16:29:01'
date: '2006-03-29 15:41:04'
node_type: forum
title: Dominant Opentype ligatures?

---
