---
author:
  name: John Hudson
  picture: 110397
body: http://www.eurekalert.org/pub_releases/2006-03/uocp-wal033006.php
comments:
- author:
    name: jazzsammich
    picture: 110792
  body: "Fascinating... I'm looking forward to seeing that article.  Of course, I
    imagine there's probably a strong correlation between those shapes that are easiest
    to perceive and those that are easiest to form.  I'm really curious how they went
    about collecting their data...\r\n\r\n--Jim K."
  created: '2006-03-31 06:04:15'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "The paper is available on Prof. Changizi's website.\r\nhttp://www.changizi.com/\r\n\r\nThey
    take an interesting tact and analyze letters as orientation invarient topologies.
    This means that there is no difference between L, v, and 7. They find that the
    letters in different orthographies tend to use the pattern of topologies. They
    go on to find that these same topologies correlate well with those seen in natural
    scenes, but do not correlate well with the number of hand movements needed to
    create the topology.\r\n\r\nFor this to be useful for type design, the work will
    need to be extended past topology to looking at geometric differences within each
    of their topologies. They do note this in the paper as a possible future direction.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-01 02:11:37'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>They take an interesting tact and analyze letters as orientation invarient
    topologies. This means that there is no difference between L, v, and 7.</em>\r\n\r\nOr,
    say, between an A and an upsidedown A. I'm not sure whether that makes me or Hrant
    the orientation invarient topologist. :)"
  created: '2006-04-01 08:27:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: <a href="http://www.artlebedev.com/posters/city/city-640x480.jpg"><em>these
    same topologies correlate well with those seen in natural scenes</em></a>
  created: '2006-04-02 00:50:13'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nInstead of Russia, That photo looks like it could have been taken
    in Pittsburgh in the 60s.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-02 22:39:12'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Learning to read must involve a pre-emption of part of the existing visual
    system and it's conversion, by minimal modification, to process the shapes of
    letters and words.\" [Stanislas Dehaene, Laurent Cohen, Mariano Sigman and Fabian
    Vinckier: \"The neural code for written words: a proposal\" (Trends in Cognitive
    Sciences, Vol 9 No 7, July 2005)\r\n\r\nSo the Changizi hypothesis is not far
    fetched.\r\n\r\nDehaene, et. al., add: \"Indeed, in most expert readers, a localized
    region of the left occipito-temporal sulcus, just lateral to the fusiform gyrus,
    systematically takes on the function of identifying visual letter strings. The
    'visual word form system' is thought to play a pivotal role in informing other
    temporal, parietal and frontal areas of the identity of the letter string, for
    the purpose of both semantic access and phonological retrieval. Thus it must provide
    a compact 'neural code' for visual words, a cell assembly unique to each word,
    yet invariant under changes in location, size, case* and font.\"\r\n\r\nIn \"Neuroimaging
    Studies of Reading Development and Reading Disability\" Kenneth R. Pugh, et. al.
    (W. Einar Mencl, Annette R. Jenner, Jun Ren Lee, Leonard Katz, Stephen J. Frost,
    SSally E. Shaywita, Bennett A. Shaywitz), posit \"a word-recognition system in
    which processing is fast because linguistic knowledge is encapsulated in highly
    efficient pattern-recognizing templates.\" (Learning Disabilities Research & Practice,
    16(4), 240-249.\r\n\r\nI've tried to argue for neural encoding of whole words
    at the 'pattern of features' level. It seems to me that, in addition to direct
    encapsulation of 'linguistic knowledge' in these 'templates' or 'neural codes',
    there are--yoked to these complexes--'chirographic scripts', which form the basis
    of our knowledge of orthgraphic shape.\r\n\r\nIn other words: while letter topologies
    do not perhaps correlate well with the number of hand movements needed to create
    the topology, our sensory-motor familiarity with the concrete movements we make
    in writing senquences of letters underlies our abstract knowledge of orthgraphic
    codes (and how they are most effectively learned). When we get stuck in spelling
    we imagine writing the word.\r\n\r\n* debatable[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-04-11 21:01:27'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">When we get stuck in spelling we imagine writing the word.\r\n\r\nIt is
    striking to a non-Chinese that when Chinese meet and give their names, and want
    to know the character--it gives a meaning, and there may be many for each sound--they
    draw it in the air with one finger against the palm of other hand. Then the person
    observing will instantly recognize the character, though it is invisible.  \r\n\r\nI
    just tried it with roman characters and it works for me also. "
  created: '2006-04-11 21:11:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: Interesting! (I should have said 'whole-word chirographic scripts')[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]
  created: '2006-04-11 21:37:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> our sensory-motor familiarity with the concrete\r\n> movements we make
    in writing senquences of letters ...\r\n\r\nJust one problem with that theory:
    we don't write any more.\r\n\r\n> When we get stuck in spelling we imagine writing
    the word.\r\n\r\nYou don't know that to be generally true. I can assure you that
    I for one don't do that. I visualize the letterforms. Or type them out! This,
    even though I did write a lot as a child. And one can only hope that the kids
    of the future will avoid such pointless intermediate steps entirely:\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_news/education/3103421.stm\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-11 23:42:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>we don\u2019t write any more.</em>\r\n\r\nIsn't the idea that the initial
    process of learning the alphabet is hard-wired to the hand-movements of learning
    how to write it? So those early childhood hand-movements are an inextricable part
    of reading.\r\n\r\nIn fact, learning how to write provides a bridge between the
    organically-structured physical world and the symbolic logic of the mental world.\r\n\r\nIn
    that BBC web page you occasionally link to, the Norwegian experiment with children
    and keyboards, the educators posit an ideal educational writing sequence  of:\r\n1.
    \"printing\" letters by hand\r\n2. keyboarding\r\n3. writing cursive script.\r\n\r\nTwo
    quite different kinds of chirography there."
  created: '2006-04-12 02:14:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the initial process of learning the alphabet is hard-wired\r\n> to the
    hand-movements of learning how to write it?\r\n\r\nHard-wired?! If you have hands
    coming out of your eyeballs, sure.\r\n\r\nWe will be the laughingstock of the
    future with this chirography hogwash.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-12 02:19:53'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: ">we don\u2019t write any more.< I wouldn't agree with this. I find I am writing
    more now than ever.\r\nJust about everyone I mix with keep hand written journals
    and write & draw every day. I also use the key board every day, but I use a pen
    or pencil more. Handwriting is still very much alive in the digital age."
  created: '2006-04-12 03:49:20'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: Hmmm...I did add a comment in the above reply, but it didn't show and I could
    not edit it. A glitch in the software maybe? Please ignore this it is just a test.
  created: '2006-04-12 03:59:56'
- author:
    name: Graham McArthur
    picture: 109915
  body: "Seems to be OK now(?). Sorry for the stuff up. If I could delete the above
    I would.\r\n\r\nI don't agree that we don't write any more. I think most of us
    are writing more now than ever before. Most of the people I mix with keep handwritten
    journals, writing & drawing every day. \r\nI use the computer a lot, but I write
    and draw with pen & pencil more."
  created: '2006-04-12 04:17:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "If synaptic yoking to chirographic scripts means hands coming out of your
    eyeballs, than having the wiring in place for synaptic yoking to 'articulatory'
    scripts means mouths coming out of your eyeballs too. \r\n\r\nArticulatory scripts
    are the basis of phonological knowledge. (Psychology has this wrong: psychology
    thinks of phonological knowledge as mediating the link from written text to articulatory
    practices. For me phonological coding is an important pedagogical contrivance,
    built on direct but learned links of meaningful whole-word patterns to full articulatory
    scripts.) \r\n\r\nJust because the wiring is in place, this doesn't mean the scripts
    are explicitly brought to mind in each and every visual wordform resolutional
    event. For immersive reading it is important that they aren't. \r\n\r\nI did not
    mean to say our perceptual encodings of words <strong>are</strong> chirographic
    scripts, just that the structures formed by the direct encapsulation of sense
    to our perceptual encodings <strong>have ancilliary links</strong> to other types
    of encodings (based in other areas of the brain). These ancilliaries sometimes
    come into play, even in immersive reading, however they aren't constitutive of
    or the leading function of perceptual processing in immersive reading.\r\n\r\nI
    merely wanted to turn the tables on the title of this thread.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-04-12 13:50:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> mouths coming out of your eyeballs too.\r\n\r\nWe [also] don't vocalize
    during immersive reading.\r\n\r\nAlso: it's important to distinguish between a
    natural and unavoidable part of linguistic communication, namely vocalization,
    versus a circumstantial and harmful crutch, namely making marks by hand. And when
    a person insists that these marks should be made with a specific instrument, namely
    the broadnib pen (held only in the right hand and written left-to-right mind you)
    then how somebody can think this is anything short of ludicrous is beyond me.\r\n\r\n>
    I merely wanted to turn the tables on the title of this thread.\r\n\r\nYes, I
    know.\r\nAs long as Noordzij remains your svengali you will have such problems.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-12 15:19:37'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Hard-wired?! If you have hands coming out of your eyeballs, sure.</em>\r\n\r\nIt's
    all connected. Muscle-memory is resident in the whole system, not just the muscles.
    Think of playing music from memory; you can't just plunge in anywhere but must
    start at the begining.\r\n\r\nResearch has shown that there is some activity in
    the area of the brain responsible for certain physical acts, when someone is watching
    but not doing.\r\n\r\nYou don't have to accept a simplistic version of \"mouthing
    the words\" or \"air pen\", to be aware that formative acts from early childhood
    are deep roots.\r\n\r\nHaving said that, it is quite within the bounds of mental
    processing ability for the act of reading to involve some form of chirographic
    mapping and replay, activated upon word recognition, as a kind of \"dictionary
    check\". The specific learning media (right hand broad-nibbed pen...) is immaterial,
    whatever was first used would get the replay. Even if spelling out every letter
    and mentally rewriting it isn't called for, they are the foundation stones on
    which the whole structure is built, not crutches that can be thrown away."
  created: '2006-04-12 16:11:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's all a self-validatin, cozy, romantic illusion.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-12 16:17:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: A good description of literature.
  created: '2006-04-12 16:34:26'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"We [also] don\u2019t vocalize during immersive reading.\"\r\n\r\nIsn't
    that what this says:\r\n<em>Just because the wiring is in place, this doesn\u2019t
    mean the scripts are explicitly brought to mind in each and every visual wordform
    resolutional event. For immersive reading it is important that they aren\u2019t.</em>
    \r\n\r\n\"And when a person insists...\"\r\n\r\nI am not an advocate of chiro-slavery.
    I have often pointed out that I see value in the opportunities for feature manipulation
    opened up by post-chirographic technologies of letter-formation. The broad-pen
    is good not because it is wielded by the hand. It is good because the formal diversity
    it introduces into the grammer of forms in a word is greater than the fexible
    nibbed pen and the ballpoint pen or pencil and because of that introduces a readability
    advantage. The particularities of contrast and construction that the broad-nobbed
    pen introduces don't have to be copied literally, but the level of formal diversity
    and distributional logic sets a standard or benchmark for future letterform manipulation.\r\n\r\nWhen
    it comes to the future of type, I am too old to still harbour oedipal instincts
    in relation to it's ancestrial matrix.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-04-12 17:25:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> The broad-pen ... is good because the formal diversity\r\n> it introduces
    into the grammer of forms in a word is ...\r\n\r\nAh, but TWO broad-nib pens,
    joined together by a special armature\r\nthat requires the left hand to manipulate
    is even more diverse!\r\n\r\n> the level of formal diversity and distributional
    logic sets a standard\r\n\r\nA standard of <cite>arbitrary</cite> limitation.\r\n\r\n>
    I am too old to ...\r\n\r\nBut I hope you are not too old to extract that nib
    tip from your heart.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-12 17:31:44'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"A standard of <em>arbitrary</em> limitation.\"\r\n\r\nA benchmark can be
    surpassed, new standards set. Intelligent exploration at the 'how (stem / bowl
    / crossbar / etc) roles are filled' and how 'role-relationships are managed' level
    yields insights into how. The history of type is a repository of such explorations.
    Some of the efforts of our/your heros are no doubt signposts. And there might
    be a lesson in others.\r\n\r\nI don't study the para- & extra-chirographic explorations
    to the degree that I should and others like yourself do. But the difference between
    you and I is perhaps what the gradients of diversity at the optical-grammatical
    level in a font should be, or how far they can be stretched before cross-letter
    binding and the object-like integrity of the word necessary for effective visual
    wordform resolution are compromised. \r\n\r\nI see the formal diversity and distributional
    logic of broadpen generated forms as an inspiration, you see the dependance of
    the forms on manually managable routines and inescapable conterpuntality as a
    prison. Neither of us are idiots. The nib stays in my pen.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-04-13 17:10:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> what the gradients of diversity at the optical-grammatical level\r\n> in
    a font should be, or how far they can be stretched before\r\n> cross-letter binding
    and the object-like integrity of the word\r\n> for vision are compromised.\r\n\r\nIt
    is entirely too optimistic to believe that the confluence of arbitrary circumstances,
    such as right-handedness, the need to make a pen wide to get enough ink down,
    etc. have resulted in something optimal for reading. The metaphysicality required
    to put faith in such a thing borders on religion, and that's anti-Design.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 17:30:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>entirely too optimistic </em>\r\n\r\nNot at all.\r\nThe physical peculiarities
    of writing equipment, such as stroke contrast, opened up design space to be exploited
    -- enabling a richer, more nuanced medium. European engineering.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 17:44:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"anti Design\" is also throwing out any value in a system or method out
    of hand. There is more to be gained by examining all variables and re- examing
    them in light of new contexts.  To say anything devised with broadnibbed pen is
    straight out wrong is just as closed-minded as saying the only thing of value
    is derived from broad-nibbed pen structure. To phiisophically disallow a set of
    information and process of any kind just because it counters our own personal
    belief is the ultimate mono-religious approach and is more likely to foster a
    typographic holy war rather than a viable solution.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-13 17:55:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, just that little \"richer\" indicates you're completely missing the
    point.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 17:55:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> out of hand\r\n\r\nWhich it is not. I have many times explained how chirography
    is anti-notan and\r\nanti-optimal-readability. And Peter for one understands this
    logic I know. But still\r\nnot enough to overcome his emotions. Maybe the next
    generation will manage.\r\n\r\n> To phiisophically disallow\r\n\r\nWhich I never
    do. In fact for the moment (and apparently for the forseeable\r\n<cite>century</cite>,
    seeing how people stubbornly grasp onto a sinking ship because it's\r\npretty)
    I'm simply working on a general admission there's even a problem.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 18:00:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Just that little \u201Cricher\u201D indicates you\u2019re completely
    missing the point.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat's wrong with a rich, nuanced reading experience?\r\nYou
    prefer a bog-standard, impoverished typography, that cannot be fine tuned?"
  created: '2006-04-13 18:04:46'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, I used the phrase 'sets a standard or benchmark,' and I talked about
    a 'readability advantage' over the ball point pen or pencil and the flexible nibbed
    pen. I deliberately didn't use the word 'optimal,' which implies 'best'. Then
    I said: \"a benchmark can be surpassed,\" and hinted at the importance of featural
    exploration, meaning featural exploration in the typographic domain. My 'extra-chirographic'
    was meant in the sense of 'beyond,' and was intended to include the efforts of
    Bloemsma.\r\n\r\nI see myself as putting forward a balanced and nuanced point
    of view, well aware of and accommodating many of the things you think we need
    to bear in mind. I am puzzled by your 'metaphysicality' quip. Who is it directed
    at?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-04-13 18:07:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I talked about a \u2018readability advantage\u2019 over the\r\n> ball point
    pen or pencil and the flexible nibbed pen.\r\n\r\nAh, but have you considered
    it against writing in the sand, with a coconut?\r\n\r\n> \u2018optimal,\u2019
    which implies \u2018best\u2019. \r\n\r\nNo.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nYou know what guys?
    Just keep encircling your continent in your\r\nleaky dinghies. Me, my dhow and
    my astrolabe are outta here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 18:16:53'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>It is entirely too optimistic to believe that the confluence of arbitrary
    circumstances, such as right-handedness, the need to make a pen wide to get enough
    ink down, etc. have resulted in something optimal for reading.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    if the broad nib (or broad brush) is the primary tool in the development of a
    writing system, i.e. is the tool used by the people who have developed the normative
    structures of our alphabet (Carolingian miniscule -> renaissance humanist script),
    then it isn't unreasonable to believe that these people created the most readable
    writing system they could <em>using that tool.</em> Of course this isn't to say
    that the Latin alphabet as written with a broadnib pen is <em>optimal</em> for
    reading, but nor is the level of readability attained arbitrary: it is designed.
    So long as you cling to the structures of an organically developed writing system
    at all, then you have to consider the formative role of the primary tool. This
    is true of every organically developed writing system: if early European scribes
    had written with needles on palm leaves, our alphabet would look nothing like
    it does, but would still reflect the most readable forms people were able to produce
    with that tool.\r\n\r\nSometimes, I don't think you are nearly radical enough,
    Hrant, only radical enough to be amusing in your moments of revolutionary fervour.
    Why are you clinging to this alphabet which was entirely a product of the broad
    nib and brush? Why do you cling to any writing system based on a writing tool.
    Why not banish the whole notion of writing systems, and insist only on <em>reading
    systems</em>. Surely there is an optimal set of abstract visual signs that we
    will read more quickly and more accurately than any system organically developed
    from handwritten forms. It is entirely too optimistic to believe that mere tinkering
    with type design for a writing system formed in the small crucible at the tip
    of the broad nib pen will result in something optimal for reading. Even structural
    alphabet reform is a dirty compromise with the nib. Only alphabet <em>replacement</em>,
    in which the old writing systems are replaced by a unique, scientifically engineered
    reading system based on increasing knowledge of human physiological and cognitive
    processes, will lead to something optimal for reading. And once it is optimal,
    there will only be a need for one such system, although perhaps with size-specific
    variations. We will be the laughingstock of the future with this type design hogwash."
  created: '2006-04-13 18:17:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I\u2019m simply working on a general admission there\u2019s even a problem.\r\n\r\nWho
    exactly says that type has to follow pen rules slavishly? Even Noordzij, whom
    you seem to regard as the Pope of the Church of Chirography in 'The Stroke' creates
    a notion of a generalized pen, or moving front that allows for unlimited violations
    of the physical rules of an actual pen. And of course since Jenson and Griffo
    type designers have been knowingly violating the rules of the pen. I may be wrong,
    but it seems to me that you are attacking a straw man here. No church, no pope."
  created: '2006-04-13 18:23:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>And Peter for one understands this logic I know. But still\r\nnot enough
    to overcome his emotions. </em>\r\n\r\nWhy is it whenever someone disagrees with
    you, it must be for emotional reasons? I didn't detect any emotionalism in Peter's,
    as usual, carefully thought out and considered comments. Maybe if you spent as
    much time reading them as he spends composing them, rather than rushing on to
    your next rhetorical rejoinder, you might actually engage with ideas other than
    your own. So far in this thread you have responded to reasoned argument with weak
    one-liners, prophecies about how we will be regarded by future generations, and
    metaphors about your astrolabe and your dhow. If you are busy and don't have time
    to engage in the discussion, just say so.\r\n\r\nWhenever the discussion turns
    to the relationship of our writing system to the tools and manual activities that
    created its structural and formal properties, you start to engage with this fantasy
    opponent who is an intellectual retard and emotional basketcase, who feverishly
    clings to his pen out of romantic and delusional motivation. Who is this person?
    Is it me? Is it Peter? Is it Nick? Is it Noordzij? Is it everyone in the world
    who disagrees with you? I've never met this fantasy opponent of yours. He doesn't
    exist except in your rhetoric. Which explains why you are reduced to one-liners
    and dismissive insults: the person you are attacking doesn't exist, so there is
    nothing for you to engage with. Yet you persist in attacking this fantasy, rather
    than engaging with the actual people who are talking with you and their actual
    ideas.\r\n\r\nI happen to think that you are not a complete idiot, so stop acting
    like one."
  created: '2006-04-13 19:04:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '[Withdrawn]'
  created: '2006-04-13 19:09:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "Hrant, I understand the logic of your argument from the concept of notan,
    but I have questions about it's applicability as you present it. \r\n\r\nYour
    argument presumes notan in typographical contexts implies black / white balance
    or equivalence. Vision, however, operates according to a logic of saliency and
    cue-value, and some criterial components are white and others black. The cue values
    have to be well managed, and the saliencies proper, and doesn't this imply local
    inequities in black / white management? So doesn't this mitigate your claim of
    linked contours being anti-notan?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-04-13 19:22:12'
date: '2006-03-31 05:37:06'
title: So much for the dominance of chirography....

---
