---
author:
  name: lore
  picture: 111437
body: "I am currently working on the design of a photography book on gay parades.\r\nAll
  photos are black and white and all photos are portraits of gay men (from the drag
  to the handsome boy and the big guy with piercing and moustache...). \r\nThe cover
  should be mainly black and white and I am currently experimenting with different
  typefaces.\r\nIt should not be to \"sombre\", too dramatic or to circensian, also
  not too grotesque...\r\nI'm trying to find the perfect typeface, one that evokes
  celebration but it's sober at the same time...and one which reflects the context
  (gay, diversity, celebration...)but not in an obvious way...\r\nAny suggestion?
  Please?\r\nThanks!!"
comments:
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: 'Well, there are a number of typefaces designed by gay type designers. Would
    one of those work? You''ll have to do your homework here, though. I don''t want
    to go to deep into the personal lives of any typophiles. '
  created: '2006-03-31 20:12:07'
- author:
    name: m1ch43l
    picture: 110348
  body: "I was working on some materials for a pride organization a while ago and
    ran into a similar dearth of options. While some faces might be historically appropriate
    (based on designer, philosophy, or geographics) they didn't communicate what was
    needed. The creative director eventually settled on something futuristic because
    it fit our mission statement of \"looking forward,\" though it wasn't to my personal
    liking, so I won't recommend it here.\r\n\r\nHave you considered the option of
    having something custom-lettered? It sounds like you have a clear enough idea
    of what you're looking for to give some good direction and, with a photography
    book, you're probably just using lettering for headings and titling, right?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: lore
      picture: 111437
    body: "Now, now...that was quite an interesting little brainstorming. Thanx everyone.
      I am trying to avoid being literal here, I'm not looking for a typeface that
      looks \"gay\"...( whatever that means)but I thought it would be cool to \"honour
      the content\" as Bringhurst says (or was it someone else?)and use a typeface
      designed by a gay person or that has some kind of androgynous feel (or at least
      avoid a major gaffe by using some catholic, puritan typeface (I guess there
      are loads around). It's more what Mich431 wrote: something that is historically,
      philosophically appropriate.\r\nI'll have a look at the suggestion you guys
      gave me and see if that works. Thanx a lot and keep posting. "
    children:
    - author:
        name: fontplayer
        picture: 111445
      body: "Has the Cristopher Lowell Decorating Show made it over there? You could
        see what font he uses. You don't get much gayer than that without an operation.\r\n\r\nBtw,
        this topic reminds me of a joke:\r\n\r\n\"Is that chair saved?\" \r\n\r\n\"No,
        but we're praying for it!\" "
      children:
      - author:
          name: lore
          picture: 111437
        body: 'fontplayer: hmmmm...no I don''t know the show but I know one thing:
          gay don''t need operations, that would be a transexual, which is a different
          thing. They also don''t need necessarily to be cute.'
        created: '2006-04-04 19:03:21'
      created: '2006-04-02 01:25:24'
    created: '2006-04-01 18:52:05'
  created: '2006-03-31 20:35:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "First of all, don't try to be too literal - that's guaranteed to backfire.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know about gay, but there is a typeface that looks androgynous, and has
    been used to great effect in a book about a transvestite artist (\"John Kelly\",
    typeset by Pentagram-NY) - that font is FF Avance by Bloemsma, and it's not difficult
    to see why it works so well for that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-03-31 20:54:35'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: I rencently had a WeHo client tell me Storm's Tenebra was Gay. Maybe he wasn't
    being literal. My typographic gaydar could be on the blink.
  created: '2006-03-31 21:47:39'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I don't think it is necessary or relevant. I would think that the photography
    will guide you and you shouldn't be too consumed with the sexual orientation of
    the people in the photos or the type designers.
  created: '2006-03-31 22:00:40'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: I agree with Tiffany, but you might be interested that Christian Schwartz
    says of his early typeface <a href="http://www.orangeitalic.com/hairspray.shtml">Hairspray</a>
    that it's "the gayest thing I've ever seen."
  created: '2006-03-31 22:22:45'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: It doesn't exist. All typefaces are straight.
  created: '2006-03-31 23:17:16'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: based on the portion of your "brief" that is actually descriptive, i think
    <a href="http://www.stormtype.com/hercules.html">Hercules</a> would work well,
    but my inital reaction was actually <a href="http://www.stormtype.com/farao.html">Farao</a>.
  created: '2006-04-01 00:15:20'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> my inital reaction was actually Farao.\r\n\r\nI own Fareo (one of several
    given to me by F.S. for pointing out some spacing problems in a font I bought)
    And I can see why you might  think that. It certainly is cute.\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-04-01 01:53:39'
- author:
    name: verdiinpink
    picture: 111397
  body: "I think Farao esp. Bold would be appropriate for its masculine with feminine
    twist, quite an option.\r\n\r\n--- pinky kinky winky ---"
  created: '2006-04-01 04:12:25'
- author:
    name: JudyG
  body: "I couldn\u2019t resist this topic, its so dear to my heart. What is a gay
    typeface? What would Judy Garland like? What is the Carneigie Hall, March 18 1958
    of typefaces? Well I say I like Futura extra light really really big printed in
    a fifth colour or maybe I could use one of those lovely butch Grotesques by the
    Font Bureau or Hoefler & Frere-Jones. But then again I am rather taken by Mr Dardens
    new creations, just need a place to use them.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-01 09:00:02'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> fontplayer: hmmmm\u2026no I don\u2019t know the show but I know one thing:
    gay don\u2019t need operations, that would be a transexual\r\n\r\nI thought that
    was just a progression, or acute case of the...uh...condition. This is great.
    You learn all kinds of things here."
  created: '2006-04-04 19:25:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You seriously thought that being gay is just a station stop on\r\nthe way
    to being a transit passenger?! Sure, the two are related,\r\nbut come on man.
    For one thing, the motivation to be a gay man\r\nwould be a lot less if they were
    all sans.\r\n\r\nI have to wonder: how old are you, and when will\r\nyour parents
    allow you to step foot outside The OC?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 19:33:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"All typefaces are straight.\"\r\n\r\nNo, some are Italic :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 19:40:06'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> I have to wonder: how old are you, and when will your parents allow you
    to step foot outside The OC?\r\n\r\nMuch older than you, I'm sure. But being from
    OC has limited my exposure to some things you young tykes from the big city take
    for granted."
  created: '2006-04-04 19:47:19'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: "A gay typeface... hmm?\r\n\r\nITC American Typewriter could match, probably
    - vibrant, artificial but with a certain warmness. I'm waiting for the next suggestions.\r\n\r\nJust
    my 2cents, Thom\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 21:07:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dennis, I think I was a bit too harsh, sorry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 21:18:40'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> Dennis, I think I was a bit too harsh, sorry.\r\n\r\nHaving participated
    in an unmoderated Christian Usenet group once upon a time, Almost everything else
    seems tame by comparison.\r\nNo apology needed."
  created: '2006-04-04 21:21:31'
- author:
    name: monocromo
    picture: 111485
  body: "A gay typeface? I don`t know what it means at all. \r\nMeet Mixa. it's a
    font on hybridation process between palatino and Symbol medium. If u are interested
    i'm working on.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: lore
      picture: 111437
    body: Mixa??? Sounds good, I like the M but can we see more? Cheers.
    created: '2006-04-08 19:17:55'
  created: '2006-04-04 21:28:39'
- author:
    name: monocromo
    picture: 111485
  body: "what about that m\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 21:35:28'
- author:
    name: poms
  body: ">what about that m\r\n\r\nIt's not straight enough :)"
  created: '2006-04-04 21:49:38'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "How about this:\r\nhttp://www.dafont.com/will-grace.font"
  created: '2006-04-05 05:06:32'
- author:
    name: track and kern
  body: "my two cents:\r\n\r\nI agree with dan_reynolds. I think that choosing a face
    that \"looks\" gay might be the worst thing you could do. I am a believer in connecting
    the text or content with the look of the type, but, I do believe that the gay
    community has far too many stereotypical labels as it is. You might accidentally
    irritate one that you were unaware of. In choosing a typeface that was designed
    by a gay designer, you could debut this somewhere cleverly, by citing the designer,
    and relating a little about his life as a \"gay\" typographer. I suppose that
    many people would not find this, or they would not care, but I think this subtler
    approach at connecting content with type is far better then choosing something
    that \"looks\" gay."
  created: '2006-04-05 05:10:30'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Maybe what is confusing some people is the title of the forum. No: I am NOT
    looking for a font that \"looks gay\" but for a typeface that can contribute to
    the spirit of the project, which is to emphasise DIVERSITY and \"OTHERNESS\" (That's
    for you fontplayer!). I appreciate the input, William Berkson, but fonts like
    \"hairspray\" for example, is not what I had in mind, I'm afraid. That would be
    a huge stereotype. \r\nWhat I could do is to play with 2 different fonts, like
    using a classic one and then insert something completely different to subvert
    it a little, like insert something hand-made to give it a human touch...dunno...would
    that give the idea?"
  created: '2006-04-08 19:15:58'
- author:
    name: zingboy
  body: "Having done a bit of work with gay publications, I'll say that it matters
    not. What is more important is the relevence to the project. BUT... \r\n\r\nIf
    you were to force me to answer (c'mon, make me!)... I'd say for gender ambiguity/shifting/borrowing,
    I've always liked Bodoni (or anything closely related) because of the contrast
    in line, the Masculine/Feminine, the sort of posed-ness of it. \r\n\r\nIf you're
    addressing both lesbians and gays, I really like Rockwell because it is playful
    and hits both crowds well.\r\n<a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/1932360247/sr=8-1/qid=1144707093/ref=sr_1_1/104-6563224-0867125?%5Fencoding=UTF8\">Kings
    and Queens</a>\r\n\r\nIt may work really well for a parade book, too. "
  created: '2006-04-10 23:16:09'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>I\u2019ve always liked Bodoni (or anything closely related) because of
    the contrast in line, the Masculine/Feminine, the sort of posed-ness of it.</em>\r\n\r\nyes,
    exactly. that's why i suggested Farao--delicate yet strong."
  created: '2006-04-10 23:20:26'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Rockwell? Really? I Thought it was one of these typefaces reminiscent of
    American Highschool/collegea bit like Princeton? Or am I totally out of my mind?
    Isn't it why they used it for the Kings and Queens' book in the first place...?[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Rockwell.gif]\r\n\r\n(thanx
    for the link)...dunno...a bit too geometric, maybe. In fact, farao does have this
    american-highschool-feel too, there's a version of farao that really looks like
    princeton. Coincidence? [img:sites/default/files/old-images/farao college.png]
    \r\n\r\n(I like it though...)But Bodoni, you can't go wrong with it, can you?\r\n\r\nI
    am getting quite attached to this Coolvetica by Ray Larabie...for some reason,
    it's kind of simple but it's got a little twist, which is probably why I liked
    it. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/coolvetica.gif]\r\n\r\nAny opinion
    about that one? (forget about the pinky flowery thing...it's not because of this
    that I think it might fit...)\r\nThanx!\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-16 00:51:49'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: i think coolvetica is very cliche and personally would be turned off by it.
    i'd rather have something more subtly sexy than something campy... unless you're
    shooting for campy.
  created: '2006-04-16 01:24:28'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Anyone know what a red asterisk means mext to a subject? I had one on this
    topic.
  created: '2006-04-16 20:34:02'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Point taken Paul...\r\nI have no idea why that asterisk on the topic, I just
    know that I am deliriously happy with the input received from all of you. This
    book is going to be big...(for my standards!)so it's important to get the opinion
    from people from different (cultural) backgrounds on this subject. Cheers!"
  created: '2006-04-16 22:22:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I thought the red asterisk means a thread that hasn't been visited at all
    yet.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 00:41:45'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: This one was almost used up when I saw it.
  created: '2006-04-17 01:28:35'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I mean visited by a given user.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 02:16:57'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Well, if we could figure out who the slacker is, the problem would be solved.\r\n:
    )"
  created: '2006-04-17 02:57:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Perhaps this is rather obvious, but Porchez' Anisette might do the job.\r\nYou
    can play around with its combination of butch and femme alternates, tuning to
    the text, to strike the right balance."
  created: '2006-04-17 03:57:24'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "I feel like I am selling secrets, but if the gays are trying to tell us it
    is a normal thing to be gay, then wouldn't a normal font be the perfect thing
    to inculcate the masses? This would simplify things, as most fonts haven't come
    out of the closet.\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-04-17 05:09:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Except there are no normal fonts.\r\nWhich is great because neither are there
    normal people.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 05:27:31'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: Personally, I think deciding on the selection of a typeface based on the sexual
    oriantation of the type designer, graphic designer or audience is, at best, foolish.
    :)
  created: '2006-04-17 12:56:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Pick a type that works with the photos in the book.  The photos are the subject
    matter.  I remember the James Bladwin Richard Avedon book of the 60s as a success
    full approach to the interplay of few wordswith very powerful images.  The type
    should not attempt to compete with the images.  Perhaps just something simple
    that is not too noisy.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-17 13:54:06'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "For some reason I'm seeing something Hairline, like Helvetica Ultra Light,
    kind of large. I like the Stymie custom font in the NY Times Q magazine which
    is on fashion and design, which seems to be a revival of L&C Stymie Hairline (not
    unfortunately available to us mortals).\r\n\r\nIt's not only the font but how
    you use it, obviously."
  created: '2006-04-17 16:16:06'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "No, I don't think it's a good idea looking for a font designed by a gay person
    either, although you'll never know...it could be a way to pay an hommage... But
    it's about CELEBRATION OF DIVERSITY really. I like the idea of simplicity and
    avoid competing with the images but since we are talking about a BOOK COVER I
    thought I might as well try something unusual just to keep up with the spirit.\r\nHey
    Dennis, you are really having difficulties coming to terms with the concept of
    gay, uh? :)\r\nand yes: gay means homosexual, which can be man AND woman...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 15:35:05'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Anisette is cool....[img:sites/default/files/old-images/anisette.gif]
  created: '2006-04-18 15:38:23'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: the ultra light ones...gorgeous.
  created: '2006-04-18 15:39:33'
- author:
    name: breck
    picture: 109953
  body: "I like the idea of thin, elegant and sophisticated.\r\n\r\nPerhaps \"new\",
    \"forward thinking\", or simply \"open\", as opposed to \"old\" and \"closed\"
    or \"traditional.\" Maybe that's the key. Don't ask what it should be... ask what
    it shouldn't be.\r\n\r\nI like the idea too, of ultra thin Helvetica, or something
    along those lines. A cover? Lately I've been a huge fan of Bernhard Fashion -
    in an all caps setting though. Take something from Avant Garde ligatures too maybe?
    Voila.\r\n\r\nOf course, this is all sooooo subjective... Especially here, with
    \"The Nerds.\" (I mean that in the best way.)\r\n\r\n-b"
  created: '2006-04-18 15:48:50'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> Hey Dennis, you are really having difficulties coming to terms with the
    concept of gay, uh? :)\r\n\r\nTo me it's like someone saying the sky is (a fabulous)
    lime-green. Maybe if enough people insist it is lime-green, some people will be
    swayed, but I am pretty sure I wouldn't be one of them.\r\n\r\nIf that was the
    only strange thing they tried to foist upon me, then as long as we don't talk
    about the sky, I could have a nice conversation. (because I have found that the
    lime-green sky people can be very nice, otherwise)"
  created: '2006-04-18 16:00:01'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: I dunno Dennis, you do seem to have gay issues - I seem to recall a thread
    about Brokeback Mountain recently in which you compared it to font piracy... methinks
    thou doth protest too much.
  children:
  - author:
      name: fontplayer
      picture: 111445
    body: "> methinks thou doth protest too much.\r\n\r\nHe was addressing me personally.
      I was trying explain myself better. I don't mind the opportunity to dialogue.
      And I certainly am not as intimidated as some people might be.\r\n\r\n> But
      then why frequent this thread?\r\n\r\nYou get your humor where you can. The
      subject heading is hilarious, and deserving of some fun."
    created: '2006-04-18 17:37:24'
  created: '2006-04-18 16:40:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> as long as we don\u2019t talk about the sky\r\n\r\nBut then why frequent
    this thread?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 16:54:47'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Gays can hardly be blamed, but one can legitimately judge their lives to be
    imaginatively and morally impoverished since, on average, a narrower empathy is
    cultivated in loving someone of one's own sex. That may not really be true, but
    it's surely vacuous to pretend that disapproval of homosexuality has to be an
    irrational vice.
  created: '2006-04-18 18:19:56'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Morally impoverished???\r\n\r\nI'd say on the contrary that in living a life
    that resists cultural sterotypes gays might be forced to cultivate more empathy.
    I'd hardly call the evangelical bigots that run my country (USA) either empathetic
    or moral. Or compassionate."
  created: '2006-04-18 18:24:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So George that means you think bisexuals are best? And bestiality even better?\r\n\r\n>
    disapproval of homosexuality has to be an irrational vice.\r\n\r\nNot an irrational
    vice, certainly.\r\nBut the more one strays outside one's village, the more it's
    counter-productive.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 18:30:29'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Well, all the clever gays I know have ended up loathing the bored spitefulness
    of the gay \"community\".\r\n\r\nNo, Hrant, because dogs present smaller alternative
    centres of self to people than women do to men or men to women."
  created: '2006-04-18 18:30:30'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Clever? Is disapproval of cleverness an irrational vice?\r\n\r\n> the bored
    spitefulness of the gay \u201Ccommunity\u201D.\r\n\r\nAnd the rest of Western
    culture is how exactly?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 18:31:58'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "You misunderstand me - \"clever\" was not meant to be snide.\r\nThe rest
    of Western culture is just a little less extremely bad, having some residual and
    vague conception of virtue forced on some people by parenthood."
  created: '2006-04-18 18:35:04'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Is the gay community more \"spiteful\" than the religious right?\r\n\r\nAnd
    where do you get the idea that parenthood imbues anybody with any conception of
    virtue?"
  created: '2006-04-18 18:40:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I myself find that parenthood imbues one with joy and fear.\r\n\r\nPlus gays
    can be parents too. It's not like bringing up kids\r\nrequires live demonstrations
    of sex with the opposite gender.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 18:48:41'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "I shouldn't have started this. Sorry!\r\nPatricia, I don't know anyone on
    the American religious right personally, I'm afraid. I got this idea about parenthood
    and virtue, in its sophisticated form, from Kant, Hegel and Scruton.\r\n> Plus
    gays can be parents too.\r\nYes, and that seems a good thing - or it will be once
    the children stop getting beaten up at school."
  created: '2006-04-18 18:58:04'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Please bring this thread back on topic. '
  created: '2006-04-18 19:02:11'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'OK: try ITC Tiffany.'
  created: '2006-04-18 19:06:35'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I couldn't help reading Scruton as Scrotum. \r\n\r\nWhich is a sign that
    Tiffany is right, we need to get back on topic."
  created: '2006-04-18 19:07:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Scruton\r\n\r\nDamn, another esoteric accented cap to design?!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 19:23:24'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: "hi - i don't know if i post it too late, but i thought about something. i
    just did it in freehand in a minute or so, but i bet there are several fonts that
    resemble this.\r\nanyway this is \"gay\" to me (in both ways)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/yay-gay.jpg]"
  created: '2006-04-18 19:42:30'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "I feel you are all looking or approaching it from the wrong direction. To
    be gay is a state of being, not choice (my opinion) therefore dont look for a
    font that you feel is gay rather look for a font that appeals to people of the
    alternate persuasion.\r\n\r\nAsk for opinions from people who are gay, and not
    from people who are straight.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 02:20:35'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> Ask for opinions from people who are gay, and not from people who are straight.\r\n\r\nWell,
    if it isn't one of MyFonts' celebrities of the moment. Welcome. But you are offering
    a radical idea here. The Foster's must be clouding your judgement.\r\n: )\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 02:28:56'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: Victoria Bitter thanks. Fosters is a bit frogpond for my tastes
  created: '2006-04-19 02:53:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If you think Fosters is frogpond, try Miller Lite, it is stagnant frogpond:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-19 03:07:19'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: Drink REAL BEER... Coopers Sparkling Ale, thanks! ;^)
  created: '2006-04-19 03:26:42'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Yes, Coopers is not a bad drop either, pity XXXX was bought out and formula
    changed, it used to be a great drink.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 03:34:31'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'I''ve actually got quite a good idea for this job, Lorenza: Times Eighteen
    bold for display, Plantin Light for text. If you want I can explain the logic
    of this, but I think it''d be pretty cool.'
  created: '2006-04-19 04:12:43'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "The way this thread is twitching, next it will be what beers do gays like.\r\n\r\nBack
    to the origin. I have no idea what would constitute as a 'gay' font, nor what
    text type would appeal to gays. I still stand by my first comment. Ask the people
    who are actually gay."
  created: '2006-04-19 04:36:36'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> The way this thread is twitching, next it will be what beers do gays like.\r\n\r\nActually
    that would be interesting, if you ask me.\r\nAnd no I am not padding out my posts.
    hrant is in a league of his own, I figure."
  created: '2006-04-19 04:54:10'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: Dennis, are you padding out your posts to try to top Hrant as the most posted
    ;)
  created: '2006-04-19 05:26:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> hrant is in a league of his own, I figure.\r\n\r\nI'm on top by number-of-posts,
    sure, but they're mostly one-liners - sometimes even single words! In terms of
    actual total bytes, John H has got me beat by an order of magnitude at least.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 06:39:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Ask the people who are actually gay.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy? Typographers spec
    type for all kinds of readers who they may or may not have anything in common
    with. A professional opinion is different from a \"focus group\" opinion.\r\n\r\nHaving
    said that, I don't believe that there is such a thing as an inherently gay type,
    or that sexuality should be prescribed by cultural norms, although it does become
    associated with them, in the form of stereotypes and cliches.\r\n\r\nIt's in the
    context of specific usage that typographic form acquires meaning."
  created: '2006-04-19 15:53:51'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> It\u2019s in the context of specific usage that typographic form acquires
    meaning.\r\n\r\nThat sounds profound. I will have to use that."
  created: '2006-04-19 16:00:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Typographers spec type for all kinds of readers ...\r\n\r\nGood point.\r\n\r\nAnd
    Graham, what if you're creating a design for starving Africans?\r\nYou're going
    to round up some type designers from amongst them?!  :-/\r\n\r\n> It\u2019s in
    the context of specific usage that typographic form acquires meaning.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I don't believe there's a specific shape that\r\nconveys \"homosexual\", this
    is certainly unrealistic.\r\n\r\nShapes, like colors, do have inherent meanings.
    Red means things that green doesn't; an inverted triangle means things that a
    circle doesn't. This is simply because we live in a physical world with certain
    fixed attributes, and furthermore we interpret this world with a brain wired in
    a fixed way. We're not abstract beings living in an aether.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 16:32:49'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Shapes, like colors, do have inherent meanings.</em>\r\n\r\ni don't believe
    these meanings are \"inherent.\" i believe that these are culturally learned and
    vary from individual to individual. just like to me farao can say sexy while to
    lorenza it says goofy. it's like those commercials that show an image of an wrinkled
    woman and overlay words like: old, wise, frail, beautiful, &c, highlighting that
    we can all see different things in the same thing."
  created: '2006-04-19 16:38:57'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: The news from science is that it's a Bit of Both.
  created: '2006-04-19 16:50:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The associations I'm speaking of are very vague and primitive (which is why
    you can't convey \"homosexual\" through shape very well) so it's predictable that
    there can be large individual variances in the interpretation of specific fonts
    (although in some cases the overall interpretation, especially if the target is
    a specific demographic, can be predictable enough to be worth leveraging). But
    if a top-heavy rock is falling on you and you try to culturally-relativize it
    away, the resultant color will be red and not green.  :-)\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s a
    Bit of Both.\r\n\r\nExactly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 16:51:05'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Man and His Symbols - Carl Jung\r\n\r\nOne of my favorite design books\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-19 17:34:11'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>vague and primitive</em>\r\n\r\nRight, type shapes have inherent meanings,
    primitive in the sense of being so basic and hence vague and generally metaphorical
    (open to multiple readings/interpretations), so don't tell much on their own.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 17:45:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Good - with that \"much\" you're backing off from \"It\u2019s in the context
    of\r\nspecific usage that typographic form acquires meaning.\" Keep going.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 17:49:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>so don\u2019t tell much on their own.</em>\r\n\r\nHow about \"they set
    the stage\"?"
  created: '2006-04-19 17:51:14'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Hrant, Nick, you both have good points. I still personally feel asking someone
    who is not Homosexual, or even Bi, about something that would, or could, appeal
    to gays, be it food, fonts or beer, is a question asked in wrong direction. Also
    Sexual orientation does not neccessarily dictate these people have a different
    taste in textfaces that we have. It could be another case of stereotyping.\r\n\r\nIs
    there a starving African Type Designer ?\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 23:37:37'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> > It\u2019s in the context of specific usage that typographic form acquires
    meaning.\r\n\r\n> ...this is certainly unrealistic.\r\n\r\nI thought it sounded
    profound enough for a quote, but I guess now I'll have to find an image with two
    characters and have one saying it, and the other saying \"Hogwash!\".\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 23:56:11'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: Irrespective of the typeface used, the meaning of the words remain the same
    !
  created: '2006-04-20 00:27:52'
- author:
    name: lunyboy
    picture: 110638
  body: "OK, enough lurking for me... The typeface, in the case of a book cover, can
    COMPLETELY dictate the meaning of the words. There was a great ad in cmyk magazine
    a few years ago from a student for a type foundry, the gist was that if you set
    the words \"will you marry me?\" in a horror typeface it changed the meaning quite
    signifigantly.\r\nI choose not to lob an opinion on the \"gay\" issue, or the
    \"beer\" issue, although I find it ironic they are coexisting. I am Junged out
    right now with joseph campbell's \"hero of a thousand faces\" and I get less sympathetic
    with each read.\r\nAt some point, someone mentioned American typewriter, and I
    am inclined *ahem to agree.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/American Typewriter
    Test.png]\r\nIMHO the photography has to speak, so let the flavor of the images
    dictate to you how they want to be represented. Don't hot-button the gay thing.\r\nGood
    design is beautiful and interesting\r\nGreat design is invisible and speaks for
    itself"
  created: '2006-04-20 07:05:45'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: Disagree. The meaning does not change. Changing the style it is displayed
    in can alter, or affect ones perception in regard to the meaning, but the actual,
    or literal meaning does not alter. "I eat dog biscuits" displayed in a script
    may give impression of frivolity of doing so, and a jaggy typeface may give impression
    of shock, or disgust, but the actual statement "I eat dog biscuits" does not alter
    one iota. The typeface alters the mood the way the statement is recieved, but
    not the meaning.
  created: '2006-04-20 07:48:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Graham, I think you're underestimating the inherent ambiguity in any natural
    language. Not always, but often enough the content can have multiple interpretations,
    depending on context and even the reader - and this is what can give Design a
    central role in communication; especially because written language doesn't benefit
    from the gestural and tonal richness of spoken language (all we have is measly
    italics).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 09:25:58'
- author:
    name: typotheticals
    picture: 111224
  body: "Yes... You are correct. Written language is fairly rigid when put beside
    the spoken word. Inflections on the spoken word can purposely alter the perception
    of a statements meaning, with the intention of actually say one thing while meaning
    another. I suppose I am being a bit pedantic(?) about it, but I put that down
    to my acerbic nature. It isn't too good to focus upon one narrow section and block
    out the surrounding information. As, after reviewing the previous messages on
    this thread, I seem to have done.\r\n\r\nUnfortunately we dont have the emotive
    variety available to us in the typefaces that we can produce vocally. Maybe we
    can come up with some emotion accents to add in the new opentype format :) Sounds
    like a challenge to me.\r\n\r\nTo get back to the book, I feel a typeface that
    looks festive and partylike, while retaining a clear visual readability would
    probably suit. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 12:55:22'
- author:
    name: Yaronimus-Maximus
    picture: 110981
  body: i agree with lunyboy - this american typwriter is interesting becuase it has
    diversity. on the one hand it's a typewriter face with it's "formality", on the
    other hand letters like C and R have these little things which make the more "feminine"
    (i don't know how to call these little things but there is something ornamental
    in them). this face no too formal, it has round edges and that's another quality.
    it would look even more interesting if it has lighter wheights.
  created: '2006-04-20 14:07:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Just for a moment, look at the problem from a different angle.\r\nWhat does
    a straight typeface look like?\r\nSomething that would be used for important heterosexual
    occasions?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Nupt.jpg]"
  created: '2006-04-20 16:07:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "That's actually harder, because \"deviations\" (as long as they're not\r\ntoo
    obscure) are easier to find associations for than the \"mainstream\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 16:13:18'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: where are the <a href="http://www.typophile.com/node/715#comment-5001">pink
    pilcrows</a> when you need them?
  created: '2006-04-20 18:08:42'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Oh dear..I can't turn my back, can I? I was away for a couple of days and
    look at the mess!!!
  created: '2006-04-21 18:55:14'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "ok...I went through the threads including the digressions about morality
    and beer. \r\nNow...I wasn't going to bother replying but Dennis..(sigh)why do
    you think there's something funny abou the topic, do you giggle everytime one
    says the word GAY? Yes, I did call it A GAY TYPEFACE? because I wanted to draw
    some attention to the forum but I think it was pretty obvious that I wasn't looking
    for a \"spiteful, frivoulous and sophisticated\" font...I mean nobody can seriously
    think it is possible to give fonts human attributes, right? \r\nHowever I do agree
    that you can somehow subvert the meaning of a text with the use (or misuse) of
    a specific font style. You can't probably change the meaning but you can affect
    the reading experience. Nothing new about it. \r\nParty celebration, festive is
    all useful not because of the cliche of gays dancing at the sound of Abba but
    because it is about GAY PARADES. But I am so not convinced about typewriters...I
    really don't get it."
  created: '2006-04-21 19:42:32'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite >Dennis..(sigh)why do you think there\u2019s something funny abou the
    topic,...?</cite>\r\n\r\nLike a typeface can be gay. I've used a few fonts that
    were trying to poke parts of themselves where they don't belong in another letter,
    but that was a quality problem.\r\n\r\nThat why it reminded me about the joke:
    \"Is that chair saved?\" ...\r\n\r\nBut one problem is I failed to note the obvious;
    that there might be a lot of gays in graphic design. I madew a few off-hand comments,
    and then I had to dig a deeper hole, so to speak, trying to explain something.\r\n\r\nI
    was trying to examine my thoughts on the matter this morning, and realized, that
    aside from any moral issues involved, my gut feeling is that male gayness is disgusting
    to me (if I start trying to imagine). Not much I can do about that. But a female
    being attracted to a female is not. Women are soft and cuddly. Who wouldn't want
    to get with that? - This is mainly to clarify how I personally feel, not to instigate
    a bunch of people to gang up on me.\r\n\r\nOn the other hand, if I keep on going
    this thread could pass the Typophile Beta Bug Report in number of responses. \r\n\r\nBut
    back to the matter of fonts, I saw these heavy Bodoni variations in another thread
    which I couldn't find (I looked up the links in browser history), but I think
    they looked great for a festive titling. I even had two of them. See what you
    think:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/bagraphics/sahara-bodoni/sahara-bodoni/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/craw-modern/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/urw/didoni/urw-d-normal/\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 20:01:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, thanks for being honest*. In fact in some ways (although not\r\nthe
    disgust part - my benchmark for that is totally different, and\r\nalmost entirely
    outside the physical realm) I feel quite the same way.\r\n\r\n* Although this
    should ideally extend to speaking your mind whether the\r\ngroup/person in question
    is present or not (although I admit that can be hard).\r\n\r\nAnd really, nobody
    should feel guilty for his emotions. But we are all responsible for our actions,
    so for example not giving somebody a job (at least one that isn't inherently heterosexual)
    because some aspect of his own emotions disgusts you is not good. Human society
    cannot be harmonious under such draconian standards.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 20:25:31'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite >But we are all responsible for our actions, so for example not giving
    somebody a job ...because some aspect of his own emotions disgusts you is not
    good</cite>  \r\n\r\nAgreed, and I am capable of forgetting about that aspect
    of a person in order to hang and work, although I haven't been challenged with
    anyone \"over the top\".\r\n\r\nAnd in the same way I might look for a Jewish
    lawyer or doctor, if I wanted fashion advice, I wouldn't mind Clinton's (What
    Not to Wear) advice on something that works for me. Unfortunately none of his
    stores would have shirts to fit me."
  created: '2006-04-21 20:49:16'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Typophile Beta Bug Report? I don't even know what that is...I am soooo not
    interested in this kind of competition. It's about QUALITY not quantity and how
    useful are your contribution going to be to me ( and everyone participating.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/craw-modern.gif]\r\nI
    like that one...looks pretty dynamic to me, kind of jolly too. Thanx. \r\nAnother
    hint : I've found that it could refer to the meatphor of \"coming out\", in short
    coming out to the streets, to the day light instead of hiding because there are
    people out there who find you...er...disgusting and don't even seem to realise
    that is quite insulting to say it in public.\r\nGet it? \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 21:05:54'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: I would be interested to see some of the work. Whatever makes me a fontfreak,
    makes me thrill to see the graphic above that demos the Craw font. I am very happy
    I have this one.
  created: '2006-04-21 21:10:17'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: " <would be interested to see some of the work.>\r\n\r\nYou mean the photos?
    it probably won't give you an idea because the great thing about it is the diversity
    of types, all sort of people, pretty, ugly, dressed up, totally normal...I do
    admire people that fight for their rights and go through a sometimes quite painful
    process until they actually come out. "
  created: '2006-04-21 21:19:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> quite insulting to say it in public.\r\n\r\nBut much better than hiding
    it (which I'm\r\nsure is the case with many people here).\r\n\r\nProgress relies
    on open communication,\r\nand open minds, but not covert feelings.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 21:21:11'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: 'exactly...tolerance is a good think and I don''t see what good can bring
    to say to someone : "I don''t like gays" without eevn think that this may hurt
    someone. Sometimes to keep your prejudices for yourself is better.'
  created: '2006-04-21 21:24:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Sometimes to keep your prejudices for yourself is better.\r\n\r\nBetter
    for whom? Yourself. Otherwise, it's assuming the\r\nthe person in front of you
    is in fact the intolerant one.\r\nTolerance is much much more than fake civility.
    Just\r\nobserve the mess the Netherlands is in now - and it was\r\ntriggered by
    a completely irrelevant incident! It was all\r\na veneer, all this time. That
    to me is disgusting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 21:36:01'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite > I don\u2019t see what good can bring to say to someone : \u201CI
    don\u2019t like gays\u201D</cite>  \r\n\r\nI'd like to clarify that I didn't say
    that. I do like some gays. Just like I like some of those WASPs. My real judgementalism
    comes from other traits like people who prey on the helpless, and men who beat
    up on women, etc.\r\n\r\nOddly, much of the worst untempered condemnation of gays
    is from Christians, who can't hang with people who they consider \"sinners\".
    Which is ludicrous, in that it ignores the glaring fact they are (continue to
    be) sinners too. And as if hatred & hypocrisy are represetative of God's love.
    (see white-washed tomb analogy)"
  created: '2006-04-21 21:50:08'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite >Better for whom? Yourself.</cite>\r\n\r\nExactly! And everyone's failure
    to recognize my victimization is lowering my self-esteem! (to quote the wise sage
    Calvin)"
  created: '2006-04-21 21:58:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "All of this generalization is making me sick and dizzy. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 22:34:31'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, Life is a heady affair.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 22:49:33'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Lorenza, you mentioned Anisette earlier. You could also use <a href=\"http://www.typofonderie.com/alphabets/view/AnisettePetite\">Anisette
    Petite</a>. Also on Typofonderie you could look at <a href=\"http://www.typofonderie.com/alphabets/view/ParisinePlusPTF\">Parisine
    Plus PTF</a>, Jean Fran\xE7ois has added all kinds of unexpected ligatures."
  created: '2006-04-21 22:55:03'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I recently used <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/emigre/suburban/\">Suburban
    Bold</a> for a jewellery fashion promotion aimed at gay men and women. You might
    find it too circensian (thank you for introducing me to that word btw) or working
    against the photography, my use was for type only. It strikes me that thin faces
    or didones might be too \"fashion\". <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/fonts/ef/clarendon/\">Clarendon</a>
    might be a more solid alternative.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-22 12:44:57'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "ahhhhhh! I love the Parisine Plus, very gracious!\r\nI think we are getting
    really close here...thanks for that. Tim: true that thin faces can be too fashion,
    I hadn't thought of that. Very useful stuff, thanx.\r\nThat suburban bold is interesting
    although some rightly say that I shouldn't use a font that compete too much with
    the images and maybe this one tends to get too close to an image (sorry I can't
    explain that too well)...look at the Y for example. "
  created: '2006-04-22 15:03:01'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "I went through a script phase and a clarendon phase (didn't like very much
    , just a question of personal taste)...\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-22 15:07:59'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: I think Veljovic would work quite well.
  created: '2006-04-22 23:37:43'
date: '2006-03-31 20:05:29'
node_type: forum
title: a gay typeface?

---
