---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "I found a site which has text in 95 languages. Not only does it have useful
  phrases in Zulu and Icelandic, but it has the story of the Tower of Bable in a zillion
  languages as well:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.omniglot.com/babel/\r\n\r\nChrisL"
comments:
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is a sample:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dezcom.com/weimar/speakmoreslowly.pdf\r\n\r\nI
    tested my font \"<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/18796\">Weimar Plakat 1923</a>\"
    using the phrase \"Please speak more slowly\" from the Omnoglot site. It even
    has Klingon!\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-03 04:05:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "This is very useful! Thanks.\r\n\r\nBe warned though: based on what I see
    in the Armenian -three spelling mistakes and two suspicious [lack of] capitalizations-
    it probably needs some serious proofing.\r\n\r\nYou know where I've found the
    same text in-admittedly far fewer-\r\nlanguages/scripts? The little battery-safety
    manual in boxes of Lego!\r\nPlus it's non-religious (unless you're a member of
    the Order of Alkali).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-03 04:21:27'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "What's the Alkalinian bashing all about?\r\n\r\nA struggle for the soul of
    America is under way.\r\nThe intensifying assault on the Alkalinians should be
    taken as a sign.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-03 04:42:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, no, no, not the Alkalinians. They're a timid, peaceful people.\r\nI'm
    talking about the Alkaloons, a tribe whose members have pillaged virtually every
    town and village between Upper Waziristan, Ingushetia, Baluchistan, and Trans-Dniestr,
    not to mention the eternally troubled Republic Formerly Occupied Ruthlessly By
    The Enemy, for one week short of 15 centuries today.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-03 05:13:55'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "A little wine and a brief period as a Situationalist - it's a dangerous mix\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-03 05:20:23'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I love dogma. It is so malformed that a simple find and replace can do wonders\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-03 05:56:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Be warned though: based on what I see in the Armenian -three spelling
    mistakes and two suspicious [lack of] capitalizations- ...\"\r\n\r\nSorry Hrant,
    my meagor spell check never would have caught those :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-03 12:26:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes, it is too bad it is a biblical quote but at least it deals with language
    as a subject albeit in a naive way. \r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-03 12:28:07'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: "Hello Chris,\r\n\r\nI opened your PDF in Acrobat 6.0, Dutch language and
    got this strange thing:\r\nA mistake in the PDF of in the font?\r\n\r\nNice typeface
    though!\r\n\r\nPieter[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mistake.gif]"
  created: '2006-04-03 12:32:33'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "if you use the german texts, please use the one named \"Luther (1984)\" -
    its by far the most modern german. and mind: in switzerland, we speak/write german
    but dont use the Sz-letter (at all, i dont even have one on my keyboard).\r\n\r\nand
    if you need german texts, http://www.newmediadesigner.de is a good ressource (the
    story \"Wortberge\" always worked well for me)."
  created: '2006-04-03 12:39:37'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Pieter,\r\nThe \"strange thing\" is actually why I made the page to begin
    with. I was testing my font to see if it could be used for every Latin based language.
    As you can see, Azurbaijani has a character which I did not put in the face yet.
    The upsidedown \"e\" (forgive me, I don't know the real name for it) is set in
    Adobe Garamond Premier Pro so I could see what it was supposed to look like. There
    were also several Vietnamese glyphs which were not included, too many to show.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-03 12:51:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Thierry, that is a good resource too.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-03 12:54:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Order of Alkali\"\r\n\r\nI took Hrants comment as a joke based on alkaline
    batteries being a pun with the Lego \"Battery Safety\".\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-03 12:58:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">too bad it is a biblical quote\r\n\r\nWhy is that?\r\n\r\nAs this story
    is probably the first recorded effort to explain the diversity of languages, it
    seems particularly apt for this exercise."
  created: '2006-04-03 14:15:45'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "\u201C\u2026Order of Alkali\u201D\r\nDiametrically opposed to the H'acidic
    :)"
  created: '2006-04-03 14:18:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Why is that?\r\n\r\nBecause preferential treatment of the bible is offensive
    to most of the world?\r\nSome people even find the bible and/or its reverence
    offensive - an affront\r\nto good, context-rich judgment.\r\n\r\n> Diametrically
    opposed to the H\u2019acidic\r\n\r\n:->\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-03 15:37:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Diametrically opposed to the H\u2019acidic :)\"\r\n\r\nI really got a charge
    out of that one :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-03 15:54:25'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> an affront to good, context-rich judgment.\r\n\r\nThat sounds like a good
    euphemism for relative values, which to me is one of the biggest problems facing
    an orderly society. That being said, I have found dialogue regarding religion
    and politics should be avoided in groups like this, as there are usually strong
    feelings and it can get out of hand.\r\n\r\nHaving moderators can help, but people
    often say things they wouldn't say in person when they are relatively anonymous."
  created: '2006-04-03 15:58:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> one of the biggest problems facing an orderly society.\r\n\r\nRelative
    values (by which we probably mean different things) never killed anybody. But
    really what I meant is that some people think it's already hard enough to make
    good decisions in this world and age without recluses who died thousands of years
    ago telling us how to live. If you <cite>must</cite> take the word of an arbitrary
    document, at least use a contemporary one.\r\n\r\n> should be avoided\r\n\r\nWell,
    good going then!\r\n\r\n> people often say things they wouldn\u2019t say in\r\n>
    person when they are relatively anonymous.\r\n\r\nWhile I find that when people
    don't say certain\r\nthings \"in person\", it's mostly out of weakness.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-03 16:05:36'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> without recluses who died thousands of years ago telling us how to live.\r\n\r\nI'll
    simply say that some things like truth cannot be improved upon.\r\n\r\n> While
    I find that when people don\u2019t say certain\r\n> things \u201Cin person\u201D,
    it\u2019s mostly out of weakness.\r\n\r\nThat may be true in the sense that certain
    things, if said to someone's face, might provide consequences like facial reconstruction.\r\n:
    )\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-03 16:12:01'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "-  If you must take the word of an arbitrary document, at least use a contemporary
    one.\r\n\r\nI don't think that a contemporary document is automatically more valuable
    than an ancient one at all.\r\n\r\nThe real problem with the Bible lies in interpretation.
    If you look at it like Joseph Campbell, like a myth (which for some reason has
    always been necessary in a society), you are not going to use it to harm. It actually
    contains some very nice metaphors.\r\n\r\nIn this case, blame the messenger, not
    the message\u2026\r\n\r\npeace\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-03 16:19:31'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> The real problem with the Bible lies in interpretation. \r\n\r\nI find
    it is more a case of the hardness of men's hearts."
  created: '2006-04-03 16:22:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: http://www.adhesiontext.com/ -- has English, French, German, Spanish, Catalan,
    Portuguese, Cyrillic, Greek and Arabic. It isn't text meant to be read, but it
    was designed specifically for the type design testing process.
  created: '2006-04-03 17:11:23'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "This is what I get when I try and use it:\r\n\r\nI I I I I I I I I I I I
    I I I I I I.\r\n\r\nNever mind. It appears that selecting both uppercase and lowercase
    causes an error. With just lowercase I get a wonderful celebration of verbal intoxication:\r\n\r\nA
    idic annie yam tern, vip ado, math. Mamie, ramon a greed, a aid. Win, ha unglassy
    vicugna, chai teak, anno overdiscouraged rug, nazism rove resolute ben, cue. Goric
    bareboned, hi defuzing. Nonopprobriously lenticonus anthos, ufo, while purity,
    chithe, saga my skirters, hind, scopiferous comdt a subtilis by ye. Wennish grin
    tut yam miswern mastooccipital mode hobo, fascicles, besmut headboards. Emerods,
    ardure, ok, highs on cloudy allethrin mom a droukit, lanital reacclaim a be, hoe,
    jets. Muddify rest, presignal. Oops, nymphish, rompy ya inclinatorily, prop blacksmith,
    glaik myops, an, em tribromacetic. Peristomium, pegger subordinationism boldfacing,
    charwomen, hoc crystallin, hip em maintopmen a twos resourcelessness olycook,
    clansfolk, hi timber ox. An, postulate as sny estuosity trikaya. If, minuends
    sum. Androidal, moots, a ore, a tad, helio, mind a alien. Professordom, limy,
    fig few, madrih tv juntos, olympia, dearth herohood, lend fort. Tv seadog pee
    a tawie, bus boil shun, startles both, funs briza, oolly but, me, intermammillary
    ups. Full unmorally a or, truff, rerow monarchical nematic bicaudal, salat. Ramet,
    respliced, waffly propertyship, are, ten my mop. Waubeen, lactant, dogwood, or,
    inventable spirituality tel, pots trio remeasures, alose adversariness forehearth.
    Rode cheekbones piemag, spay cryptoproselytism, ok, baidak bolo, pea phengite
    ebullate snit daubing gaper circination purree lee us dziggetai crotesco. Xylyls,
    ya side, levities catnapped file ajari, incompletion, exomphalus a tab be, rape
    duret say, bacchanals. Ax linky, pile, sot anderun, zeal, or, waxiest aneled,
    stairbeak. Um hyalobasalt postdates, teat embayed, baler fed reinstatements rarest
    hemiekton to. Yam april, odes, prosequitur pungi, of, my comprehensibly, we, fins.
    Ben, perishes, seacock resolutest, aricin sob, holostome. Lew, saw, nave a pen
    inorg, gibe. Age a gaveler enamor, sub, alderman clio exec spec, faq, a faded,
    naivete, hemihydrated. Cadded crabbing comal acherontic unbankably, in fare, stud,
    amargoso kid, at, coated a troy. Soapy resurrectible, a."
  created: '2006-04-03 17:14:24'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Looks very poetic :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-03 17:18:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "AdhesionText rules.\r\n\r\n> I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I I.\r\n\r\nLooks
    like instead of a bug it has a mouse.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-03 17:20:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Because preferential treatment of the bible is offensive to most of the
    world?\r\n\r\nHrant over half the world is either Christian or Islam, and both
    revere Genesis, though they would disagree about its interpretation and even correct
    text. \r\n\r\nIn any case, the Tower of Babel text is here not cited reverentially--\"explanation\"
    is in quotes. \r\n\r\nLighten up. "
  created: '2006-04-03 17:45:28'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Bookmarked in case I ever decided to actually finish a typeface instead of
    just mucking about in Illustrator.
  created: '2006-04-03 17:48:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> over half the world is either Christian or Isam\r\n\r\nOnly by birth. Like
    me. But you won't catch me suggesting foreign policy, education, or really anything
    else important, based on it. To me the usefulness of christianity ends outside
    the realm of preserving my culture and ethnicity. And we're a special case - most
    people need it way less than that.\r\n\r\n> Lighten up.\r\n\r\nOK, but only if
    you promise to not become a cartoonist.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-03 17:49:15'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> the realm of preserving my culture and ethnicity. \r\n\r\nSince apparently
    no topic is too far off topic here, I'd like to inquire about something I heard;
    I was told that due to DOJ crackdowns over the years, the main force in organized
    crime has shifted from the Italian mafia, to the Armenian mafia (not sure that
    is the right term).\r\n\r\nDo you know if this is true? It seems unlikely since
    I have run into that many Armenians. If true, can you offer an explanation?\r\n\r\nThe
    main Armenian I knew (sort of) was a guy named Don Manasian (sp?), who had quite
    a temper, which caused a big turnover in the sales force he was in charge of.
    One buyer told me that they had six different salesman in 18 months, and she didn't
    know who the current one was. This allowed me to make big inroads for my company
    back in the early 80s. (As is usually the case, I'm told he really was a sweetie
    at heart)\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-04-03 17:59:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Can we bring the discussion back to resources for language examples that
    type designers can use? \r\nIf anyone wishes to continue a discussion of the religions,
    traits, or underworld connections of any ethnic groups, I would hope that they
    might find another more suitable place to do it.\r\n\r\nThank you for your kind
    understanding,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-03 18:09:18'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "sorry\u2026\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-03 18:14:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "What we need is a single \"Lorem ipsum...\" text that covers all scripts?\r\nWell,
    maybe not.\r\n\r\nThe difficulty is that with the Babel or UN texts (thanx for
    that link too Chris), one doesn't know how much text is required to get the full
    character set.\r\n\r\nBut it's good having a lot of text, because you get to see
    different character combinations."
  created: '2006-04-03 18:36:22'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Another useful resource are the newspaper sites in the various languages.
    These are easy to find and copy text from: Le Monde, Die Zeit, etc., etc. '
  created: '2006-04-03 18:42:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Indeed, pangrams for every script (at least the ones with\r\nnon-huge sets)
    would be equally useful... although only\r\nto type designers I guess.  :-/\r\n\r\nAnd
    don't forget the BBC's multilingual, multiscript coverage!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-03 18:42:39'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Please note if anyone wants to *really* get off topic, I have activated my
    e-mail in the contact section of the personal info page. (I thought it was on
    before)
  created: '2006-04-03 22:09:07'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "the main reason i stopped using lorem ipsum is because i read (and, after
    testing, believe myself) that latin has a different text-color than german. an
    because of that, you cant really tell how a page will look in german if you work
    with lorem ipsum before.\r\n\r\nif everybody wants to have such texts - why not
    try to collect them here? start a thread where everyone can throw in sentences
    in his mother tongue with as many glyphs as possible (different glyphs). \r\n\r\nswiss-german
    isnt that interesting, just lots of \xE4, \xF6 und \xFC, but if its wanted i can
    add one, too (and, if im talking about it already, swiss-german doesnt even have
    a fixed grammar because before email and sms came, it nearly was a spoken language
    only)."
  created: '2006-04-04 00:09:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The upsidedown \u201Ce\u201D (forgive me, I don\u2019t know the real
    name for it)</em>\r\n\r\nThe usual name among English speakers is 'schwa'.\r\n\r\nThis
    leads me to the juvenile IPA joke that this letter with a palatalized hook should
    be called 'shwing'.\r\n\r\n\r\n<em>Because preferential treatment of the bible
    is offensive to most of the world?</em>\r\n\r\nOffensive? Most of the population
    of the planet are not Tibetan Buddhists, but that hardly means that they find
    citations from or translations of the Tibetan Book of the Dead to be offensive.
    Similarly, most of the population of the planet is not Moslem, but that doesn't
    mean they find quotes from the Qur'an offensive. Just because you don't subscribe
    to something doesn't mean that you find it offensive.\r\n\r\nIf you are offended
    by the application of e.g. a fundamentalist protestant interpretation of the Bible
    to US foreign policy and domestic education policy, that is all the more reason
    to welcome the presence of scripture within genuinely humanist (in the traditional
    sense of the word) and scholarly contexts such as the Omniglot website.  Trust
    me, that last thing you want to do is to push the Bible out of public discourse
    and into a ghetto where it is read and interpreted only by sectarian fundamentalists."
  created: '2006-04-04 01:23:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Please note the \"preferential treatment\" bit.\r\nThe specimen of a [general-purpose]
    typeface that\r\nrelies on text from one religion is not balanced.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 04:23:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...why not try to collect them here? start a thread where everyone can
    throw in sentences in his mother tongue with as many glyphs as possible (different
    glyphs).\"\r\n\r\nThat is a great idea Thierry! (and perhaps it will steer us
    back to the purpose of this thread).\r\n\r\nHere it is:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19010\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 13:36:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"The usual name among English speakers is \u2018schwa\u2019.\"\r\n\r\nThanks
    John! is it only Azerbaijani or are there other languages that use it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 14:00:25'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A related question: Is there an online source where I can download the glyph
    set in text of every language?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 14:03:18'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Chris, I believe John is referring to the name of the character in IPA. Scroll
    down to Schwa Symbol.\r\nhttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Schwa\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-04 14:22:25'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Chris, the schwa represented by the upside down e is I believe used in the
    phonetic alphabet for the English sound of the 'e' in 'the', when it is pronounced
    before a consonant: 'the pear'. (In 'the apple' it becomes a long 'e'.)\r\n\r\nThe
    name for the sound I believe comes from Hebrew, which has the same vowel sound
    in it as the English schwa. (In modern Hebrew it is pronounced schva, though.)
    In the Hebrew system of vowel points the sound is represented by two dots arranged
    vertically under the letter. The same sign can also be silent--which way to read
    it is dictated by complicated rules.  \r\n\r\nEDIT: I cross posted with Tim. The
    Wikipedia article has more than you ever wanted to know about the schwa!"
  created: '2006-04-04 14:24:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Tim and William! and they said it was as easy as A-B-C! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 14:34:06'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: 'A little off topic but I found <a href="http://www.eki.ee/letter/">this</a>
    useful site where you can query to find which glyphs are required/important to
    each latin-based language, eg. finnish. '
  created: '2006-04-04 14:46:48'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Geoff! That is an intriguing way to approach it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 15:51:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The Armenian schwa: \u0538 \u0568\r\n(Probably didn't work for everybody...)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 16:14:01'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You might have to post a GIF Hrant.  All I see are 2 question marks.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 16:19:03'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Since the first schwa symbol and the name come from a vowel symbol developed
    for and used in the Hebrew Bible, and of course all religions are offensive and
    all religous people are overbearing fanatics, we should change the name ''schwa''
    to another less offensive word. I would suggest ''the hrant'' :) '
  created: '2006-04-04 16:50:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Chris: well, it wasn't that important, but since you asked...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ETet.gif]\r\n(The
    Sylfaen lc one had too many serifs anyway.)\r\n--\r\n\r\nWilliam: Hebrew? \"Siempre
    hay un chino que lo dijo antes.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 17:35:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Please, can we keep this thread on topic (or at least light hearted) and
    avoid any more confrontational diversions?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 17:54:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> light hearted\r\n\r\nWell, in fact that Castillian expression is\r\none
    the funniest things I've heard in my life!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 18:01:01'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "\"Always there is a Chinese who said it earlier\" Is that what the Spanish
    says, Hrant?\r\n\r\nIn this case, no. Chinese doesn't have a schwa among its sounds,
    at least in Mandarin. \r\n\r\nThe fact is that 'schwa' is a Hebrew word originally.
    My point here--relevant to your and Chris questioning the propriety of using a
    Biblical text--is that religious texts, including the tower of Babel story, are
    a part of our cultural heritage, and often they are not religious or sectarian
    in their connotations--such as the word 'schwa'.  \r\n\r\nOur history is intertwined
    with the history of religions and religious texts. Type history in particular
    is intertwined with the printing of the the Bible, in Latin, Greek, Hebrew,and
    many other scripts and languages. So using the Tower of Babel passage to illustrate
    different scripts is beautifully apt, and not in the least sectarian or offensive."
  created: '2006-04-04 19:06:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> are a part of our cultural heritage\r\n\r\nA part that needs to be balanced
    against other things, not be\r\ngiven special treatment, as is most likely your
    own life purpose.\r\n\r\n> not in the least sectarian or offensive.\r\n\r\nYou
    don't get to decide for everybody. Neither does your god.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIf
    one must use text from a single religion, the considerate,\r\ngracious person
    would do so from a religion other than his own.\r\nPreaching one's faith in an
    arbitrary document is offensive to\r\na great many people. It is no different
    than... what I happen\r\nto be doing now! :-)  But the key thing is that I realize
    and\r\nadmit it, and am not being manipulative.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 19:11:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Hrant, what in the world are you going on about?\r\n\r\nI didn't put up the
    Omniglot site. <a href=\"http://www.omniglot.com/aboutme.htm\">This fellow</a>
    did, and I'm sure from his bio that proselytizing was the furthest thing from
    his mind. He was just using the oldest familiar story on the origin of many languages
    to illustrate many languages. He wasn't endorsing it.   \r\n\r\nThe Tower of Babel
    story is only directly critical of the Babylonian religion, and that is long,
    long gone. As its overt target is antique in the extreme, people normally read
    story as a warning against arrogance, or trying to be a god yourself, or something
    like that. It is not particularly sectarian, and in fact at least three different
    religions--Judaism, Christianity and Islam--claim Genesis as their own. Since
    this particular story doesn't preach in favor of any sect it is inoffensive to
    almost everybody, including those like me who take it as myth or legend. "
  created: '2006-04-04 22:35:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The Tower of Babel story is only directly critical of the Babylonian
    religion, and that is long, long gone. As its overt target is antique in the extreme,
    people normally read story as a warning against arrogance, or trying to be a god
    yourself, or something like that.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, so it is indeed a deeply offensive
    story to the very many people on the planet who acknowledge no authority beyond
    themselves."
  created: '2006-04-06 08:05:04'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>Yes, so it is indeed a deeply offensive story to the very many people
    on the planet who acknowledge no authority beyond themselves.</em>\r\n\r\nThese
    sorry people probably get offended by a lot more than just Biblical stories."
  created: '2006-04-06 08:26:13'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Ah, I see the conclave is now in full swing.\r\n\r\n> acknowledge no authority
    beyond themselves.\r\n\r\nEver heard of Agnosticism, John? (Oh yes you have.)\r\n\"Authority\"?
    What a self-serving farce.\r\n\r\n> probably get offended by a lot more than just
    Biblical stories.\r\n\r\nIs this continued misrepresentation a result of manipulation
    or insecurity?\r\n\r\nYet once again: what's offensive isn't the story, it's focusing
    a\r\ntype specimen on the text of a specific religion. Outside of one's\r\nlittle
    village, it's plain ugly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-06 12:40:14'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Authority\r\n\r\nWell the point of the story is not to get above yourself,
    and think you run the world. Religious or not, it seems to me that modesty is
    a becoming garment. \r\n\r\nBeing a rationalist, as well as religious, I do not
    take any text as infallible authority, including any religious text. I like to
    think that a true religiousity, acknowleging the awesome and mysterious powers
    that sustain us and the universe, will engender an appropriate humility. And often
    this is the case. Unfortunately, some religious people have interpreted and still
    do interpret their texts as infallible instructions to persecute others. However,
    the abuses by some religious people is not a reason to censor and banish religious
    references from public discourse. "
  created: '2006-04-06 13:13:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "So, three guys go into a bar and the first one says . . .\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-06 13:49:44'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">the text of a specific religion. Outside of one\u2019s\r\nlittle village,
    it\u2019s plain ugly.\r\n\r\nThere are at least three things wrong with this argument.\r\n\r\nFirst,
    you are reacting as if the author of the web site is proselytizing for religion,
    or that any quote of a religious text has to be for the purpose of proselytizing,
    which is just ridiculous. Many people, including myself, quote religious texts
    from many religions as well as anti-religious texts, to make points clear and
    not endorse the views.    \r\n \r\nSecond, as you repeatedly ignore, but is fact,
    this text is not of one specific religion, but of at least three. Those familiar
    with this text as a result of being raised in societies with widespread Judaism,
    Christianity or Islam constitute not a little village but over half of humanity.
    And if you focus on those peoples who use alphabetic texts--the point of the exercise--it
    is probably three-quarters of this group. As an English language site, practically
    everyone will be familiar with the story. \r\n\r\nFinally, your dark hints about
    'one religion' and 'little village' seem to allude to the fact that this is from
    the Hebrew Bible, and hence Jewish. The idea that this guy has the purpose of
    proselytizing for Judaism--and I doubt he is Jewish--is laughable. What is \"just
    plain ugly\" are your dark hints that quoting anything Jewish is offensive. "
  created: '2006-04-06 13:57:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">So, three guys go into a bar and the first one says \u2026\r\n\r\nAnd one
    of them wants to pick a fight. And this other idiot is fool enough to oblige..."
  created: '2006-04-06 14:01:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "William, your persistent distortions of what I say, and\r\nyour self-serving,
    paranoid interpretations are pitiful.\r\n\r\n> fool enough to oblige\u2026\r\n\r\nIt
    is, after all, why you are really here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-06 14:57:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">paranoid interpretations\r\n\r\nOk, what 'specific religion' and 'little
    village' were you talking about? \r\n\r\nIs there another tiny religion originating
    in the Hebrew Bible? Were you talking about the Samaritans?\r\n\r\nI would be
    glad to be wrong about this, so do explain yourself. "
  created: '2006-04-06 15:22:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"And one of them wants to pick a fight. And this other idiot is fool enough
    to oblige\u2026\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-06 15:42:04'
date: '2006-04-03 03:38:14'
node_type: forum
title: Need a sample of text in many languages? Try this...

---
