---
author:
  name: George Horton
body: "In 1516, at the impressive age of 66, Griffo made his last type for his own
  press in Bologna. This tiny italic, in which four line increments vertically occupy
  almost exactly 1 cm, has an enormous x-height and fat counters, making these 32\xBA
  books surprisingly readable. Is it the first such type made? Does anyone know about
  other early experiments with monster x-height?\r\nGeorge[img:sites/default/files/old-images/x-height2.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'This would make an interesting study. At the time, printing, let alone creating
    a typeface, was expensive. I don''t recall how far abroad the Latin alphabet was
    at this time, it post-dates the period of the incunable, but not by much. '
  created: '2006-04-04 16:10:15'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: Do you think those caps were placeholders? They look more Roman than Italic
    to me.
  created: '2006-04-04 16:46:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>monster x-height</em>\r\n\r\n...other than JG, 60 years earlier?"
  created: '2006-04-04 16:54:40'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Yup, other than the Goths (and Griffo used, as everyone did until rather later,
    roman caps with italic miniscules).
  created: '2006-04-04 16:55:36'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Do you think those caps were placeholders? They look more Roman than
    Italic to me.</em>\r\n\r\nThat's because the caps were Roman, as it was the convention
    in early use of italics. From time to time you still see it."
  created: '2006-04-04 16:55:37'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: For comparison, this is Griffo's previous italic, made for and printed by
    Gershom Soncino in 1503, at roughly the same magnification. I think this is the
    most beautiful of all Renaissance italics. [img:sites/default/files/old-images/smallx.jpg]
  created: '2006-04-04 17:06:45'
- author:
    name: PL
    picture: 111316
  body: "Pardon me,\r\nSome Questions:\r\nwho is Gershom Soncino?\r\nand what did
    he print? \r\nand what is the subject of this book?"
  created: '2006-04-04 17:23:09'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'Gershom Soncino was the most technically capable printer of the early C16th,
    and he issued excellent editions of the classics and of Jewish material. He worked
    from the little town of Fano, and had his first types (Hebrew and italic) cut
    by Griffo, after the latter fell out with Aldus Manutius. This is Petrarch''s
    ''Opere Volgari'', the first book, I think, printed from the new italic. '
  created: '2006-04-04 17:32:18'
- author:
    name: PL
    picture: 111316
  body: "Would you mind adding that to the wiki, or should I? \r\nalso, is the historical
    soncino press named after him?\r\nor is it tied to him in other ways?\r\nwhere
    could I read more on this subject?"
  created: '2006-04-04 17:40:43'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "More on Soncino <a href=\"https://www.jewishvirtuallibrary.org/jsource/loc/Soncino.html\">here</a>.\r\n\r\nThe
    modern <a href=\"http://www.soncino.com/\">Soncino Press</a> has published the
    massive English translation of the Talmud--printed in van Krimpen's Spectrum typeface.
    \  "
  created: '2006-04-04 17:43:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nice find. Your measurement indicates that the type was about 7 point. In
    looking for a previous font with a larger x-height, I'd recommend tracking down
    previous fonts of smaller point sizes!  :-)\r\n\r\nBTW, I noticed on your fourth
    line an open-bottom bicameral \"g\"!\r\nThat's the earliest I've seen that form
    occur in type. But I have to\r\nwonder whether that particular impression was
    damaged; could you\r\nlet me know if all the \"g\"s in that printing have that
    structure?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 17:55:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "It feels like an 80s ITC Griffo with that large x-height :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS:
    I know Norbert is going to get me for that :-)"
  created: '2006-04-04 17:57:11'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Psachyah, I'm no Soncino scholar though I'd be happy to put a note in on him
    if you wanted. He doesn't come up very often though, not having had any substantial
    influence, even purely typographic influence, outside the Jewish community. In
    printing Greek, Latin and Italian, Aldus set the trends and Soncino copied him.
    He just did it better.
  created: '2006-04-04 18:15:15'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Chris, that was my exactly my reaction! It looks like a Tony Stan take on
    the 1503 italic. I think only half a dozen or so copies of books printed by Griffo
    survive (he didn't get much done, what with being executed for murder a year after
    starting up), and it took months and an absurd amount of money for me to secure
    scans of two pages, so it was almost embarrassing to find such a homely thing.
    But nice work for someone probably with failing sight and no magnifying lens.
  created: '2006-04-04 18:22:22'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hrant, good question. I'm not sure: either the loop tapers to a point which
    just touches the, um, other bit, or it really is Baskervillian.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Griffo-gs.png]"
  created: '2006-04-04 18:35:08'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<cite>Do you think those caps were placeholders? They look more Roman than
    Italic to me.\r\n\r\nThat\u2019s because the caps were Roman, as it was the convention
    in early use of italics. From time to time you still see it.</cite>\r\n\r\n<strong>I
    seem to remember reading somewhere (<cite>Printing Types</cite>...?) that the
    italic upper case didn't appear until a couple of decades later, and as bootlegs
    of sorts \u2013 someone copied Griffos italics and added upper case letters themselves.
    Previous to that, as in the ones in the example, they used small caps.</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2006-04-04 18:39:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It looks open to me. But you're right, one can't be sure.\r\nLike if the
    matrix wasn't struck hard enough all the\r\n\"g\"s would have been contrary to
    Griffo's \"intent\".\r\n\r\nBTW, there is actually an unequivocal precedent to
    Bville's \"g\":\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Voskens.gif]\r\nAbout 72
    point, from the ~1660 specimen sheet of B Voskens.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 18:42:10'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: I like the narrow vdKeere-style h, but have always disapproved of open gs
    in text faces - is there any reason to prefer them?
  created: '2006-04-04 18:55:51'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Looking at Harry Carter on Soncino, Aldus and Griffo, I was very amused by
    the following:\r\n\r\n\"After asserting that Francesco [da Bologna] had not only
    designed and cut the cursive, but had conceived the idea of it, [Gershom] Soncino
    claims that the punchcutter had been responsible for all the types that Aldus
    had printed, and that he had made Latin, Greek, and Hebrew. Francesco, whose family
    name was Griffo,...in 1516 repeats the claims that Soncino had made for him and
    accuses Aldus of taking the credit for his work.\"\r\n\r\nPlus \xE7a change...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 19:39:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Hrant,\r\n\r\nDid you put that scroll bar in your post or did it just happen
    automatically by the site?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 19:43:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I did nothing special actually. It's cool though huh?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 19:45:36'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: Typophile was 'down' half an hour ago. I bet the powers have provided the
    scroll bars as a gift. Praise to the typogods!
  created: '2006-04-04 19:47:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Well at least it was the typogods and not the Dead Sea Scroll :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 19:50:46'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Does anyone know about other early experiments with monster x-height?\"\r\n\r\nIt
    would be a good guess, that \"in the beginning\" some took larger sizes, and \"cut
    them down\" to work with smaller sizes of caps, something that the first image
    in this thread is not at all... out of sorts with, so to speak."
  created: '2006-04-04 20:29:56'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>I\u2019d recommend tracking down previous fonts of smaller point sizes!</cite>\r\nI've
    only just realised something: wasn't Haultin meant to be the first person to make
    sub-9/10 point type? If so, this would knock him right out of the niche-interest
    record book. And the modelling of the type actually looks very good, though Griffo
    seems not to have been a great pressman."
  created: '2006-04-04 20:37:17'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>It would be a good guess, that \u201Cin the beginning\u201D some took
    larger sizes, and \u201Ccut them down\u201D to work with smaller sizes of caps,
    something that the first image in this thread is not at all\u2026 out of sorts
    with, so to speak.</cite>\r\nThe 1516 type would have been designed all of a piece,
    because it was made to start a new press. Short caps, made to blend nicely with
    the lowercase and especially useful before the advent of small caps, constitute
    a normal feature of Griffo's types."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "Although \"the 1516 type would have been designed all of a piece,\" is
      it possible that Griffo did not start from scratch but employed existing counter
      punches on a smaller body? The only problematic lower case character in that
      scenario would have been the 'g,' and the open loop\u2014I admit I'm stretching
      here\u2014might be a solution to maintaining an adequate counter in the diminished
      space available for the descender."
    created: '2006-04-04 22:38:01'
  created: '2006-04-04 20:50:03'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: No, Griffo didn't use counterpunches. No counter is repeated perfectly in
    a font - even the counters on ligatured versions of letters are different from
    the standard forms, and the two halves of an m likewise. Part of Griffo's interest
    is that, like the makers of Venetians, he believed in divergence, but his proportions
    and modelling are typographic rather than calligraphic - much more sophisticatedly
    so, indeed, than Garamond's.
  created: '2006-04-04 23:03:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> have always disapproved of open gs in text\r\n> faces - is there any reason
    to prefer them?\r\n\r\nI've come to believe that there is: it's much more harmonious
    with the \"spirit\" of the Latin lowercase as a whole; the conventional (closed)
    form is really too complex; especially when it's doubled it can cause a distracting
    spike in the texture. The way I see it, the only really valid reason to use the
    conventional form is: if you want the font to be as conservative as possible;
    or if you believe Familiarity takes a very very long time to settle down, and
    readers are almost inherently used to the closed form even if it has a \"belonging\"
    problem.\r\n\r\nIn any case, the open form couldn't be as bad as the narrowness
    of\r\nthat \"h\" that you favor. :->  (That there is a display font though.)\r\n\r\nBTW,
    just to be clear: I'm not talking about the monocameral open form,\r\nbut the
    bi. The mono form is way too homogenous (in terms of readability).\r\n\r\n> might
    be a solution to maintaining an adequate counter\r\n\r\nYes, that might be it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 23:39:04'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> a distracting spike in the texture\r\n\r\nI think this depends on how the
    counters are shaped and strokes weighted. I think either way can work, or not
    work, depending on how it is drawn. That being said, I do tend to find most open
    binocular g's unpleasantly distracting. Baskerville's is just fine, but then it
    is not very open. "
  created: '2006-04-04 23:53:06'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>The conventional (closed) form is really too complex</cite>\r\nThe
    opposite seems true for me, at least in the pointed-pen Baskerville-style squiggle,
    which is a black form that's lost its purpose in defining a white one. But you're
    right, it is an odd place to put a counter, and g (thanks to Griffo's reduction
    of the top story's size) doesn't really need a second counter for differentiation's
    sake. \r\n\r\nThat h would be unforgivable in text, but it's very smart there.
    I hope the w is nice and wide to match, as in Deepdene."
  created: '2006-04-05 00:02:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "To me Baskerville's -at least the way it's\r\ntypically revived- is not \"the
    real thing\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-05 00:45:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Guys, get over it, this is the 21st century.
  created: '2006-04-05 01:00:17'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Hrant, what do you think is the real thing, for a basically-Garalde small
    text type, roman and italic?
  created: '2006-04-05 01:10:14'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Nick, the book I just put down to see your comment is 'The World We Have
    Lost'! I don't think we're going to agree on this. <em>I</em> think you retain
    a minor-Modernist nostalgia for the present day :-)\r\n\r\nThat emoticon is a
    double concession: it's the first I've ever used, and I feel soiled."
  created: '2006-04-05 01:13:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I don't mind Nick saying such things.\r\nBut I do mind him not saying it
    to\r\ncertain individuals, like Hoefler.\r\n\r\n> what do you think is the real
    thing\r\n\r\nAnything that's not apologetic (like most Baskervilles and Meta)
    but not cartoonish (like Cheltenham). I like the ones in Fountain's Baskerville,
    that Voskens, B&R#1/Oxford/Monticello, Zapf International's italic, Patria. Preferably
    with a strong terminal (at least in a serif face, but we're talking about text
    anyway) and definitely an obvious gap. I also prefer the top of the bottom bowl
    to not be uniformly thick, and certainly not totally horizontal. Like the one
    in Enigma is <cite>almost</cite> there.\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s the first I\u2019ve
    ever used, and I feel soiled.\r\n\r\nDon't feel too bad - like any tool, they
    can be useful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-05 02:36:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick saying such things.</em>\r\n\r\nI guess I should start some threads
    on new type designs, but I have a feeling they wouldn't stir as much interest
    as Akzidenz Grotesk, The Mystery of Steile Futura, Caslon, Baskerville, Griffo
    etc.\r\n\r\nSo much of the mystery is in the space between technologies.\r\n\r\n<em>like
    Hoefler.</em>\r\n\r\nI would like everyone, including you and I, to attempt greatness,
    quantum jumps like Futura, Palatino, Frutiger. But it's not easy, and so much
    is being in the right place at the right time, which is not immediately under
    one's control."
  created: '2006-04-05 03:33:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have a feeling they wouldn\u2019t stir as much interest\r\n\r\nIf they
    don't stir much interest here and now, with the\r\ncommunicative power of the
    internet to boot, how can they\r\nstir interest in the broader world, centuries
    or even just\r\ndecades down the line? If they don't stir interest, maybe\r\nit's
    because they're not interesting. And I posit that the\r\ngreat bulk of typefaces
    are not interesting because they're\r\nmostly expressions of the designer's personal
    preferences,\r\nsomething nobody cares about, or really needs to. When a\r\ntypeface
    is interesting, I feel it's because it transcends\r\nthe designer and becomes
    evocative of something that's\r\nactually important.\r\n\r\nThink for example
    of all the times Legato comes up and\r\ngenerates such great discourse. I think
    it's because it\r\ntries to answer a question that has been consistently\r\nposed
    but just as consistently given mere lip service:\r\nthe central role of notan
    in type.\r\n\r\n> so much is being in the right place at the right time\r\n\r\nVery
    true. But so much more is what different\r\npeople believe, with the candid confrontation\r\nbetween
    them being the fuel of cultural progress.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-05 05:41:13'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: For old-timers, impersonal greatness is the best goal, but I think the route
    to it lies through competence and the accurate knowledge of one's personality
    within the specific field. I am, at the moment, an incompetent type designer,
    but producing a revival at Reading should change that; it'll also help me pin
    down exactly what I think great and also personally resonant in Griffo's stuff
    - which has never been accurately revived and which deserves a numble servant
    to give it an honest representation to the world now. If greatness is Futura -
    lovely caps, pitiful lowercase - and Palatino - nicely modelled but really the
    opposite of civilised - then I'm not very interested.
  created: '2006-04-05 13:06:37'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The 1516 type would have been designed all of a piece, because it was made
    to start a new press.\"\r\n\r\n...several leaps of faith.\r\n\r\n\"producing a
    revival at Reading should change that\"\r\n\r\nThat imho, depends on whether you
    keep your eyes and ears open wide to let your mind out into a 490 yr old pasture.
    If not, and you let your assumptions run in 2006 mode, we might never hear of
    you again, I'm afraid ;)"
  created: '2006-04-05 13:19:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Is Reading really such a magic bullett? Perhaps it is more what you bring
    to it rather than what you take from it?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-05 13:33:22'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hi David, I've enjoyed gambolling around this pasture for several months,
    and have found that the effort to accept whatever Griffo made has consistently
    been rewarded by a new or strengthened perception of its excellence. And one's
    eventual feelings about what actually exists are always more reliable than those
    about what might exist - which is a reason for literal revivals. \r\n\r\nThe evidence
    that the 1516er was designed all of a piece is as good as you're going to find
    in this period. There was certainly a press, Griffo's first; and he would have
    had no opportunity to use type made beforehand, and so no motive to make it (rather
    than, say, imagine it in detail, or even draw it). \r\n\r\nChris, Reading's not
    a magic bullet, but criticism there should greatly accelerate the learning process.
    I'd have made this revival privately had Reading not existed, but I expect I'd
    have needed to take it through two or three generations and several years of trial
    and error before it became satisfactory."
  created: '2006-04-05 14:16:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "George,\r\nThe beauty of going to a grad school situation, and a fine one
    like Reading, is the community interaction of your peers there as much as the
    faculty. You bring your passion and love for the craft and that value will be
    available to your colleagues there as much as any other. Don't be afraid to question
    everything you hear--not to be argumentative but to get the speaker to clarify
    and bring support to what they say. Dialogue is the most precious commodity in
    school. Drink it in and pour some of your own for others. You are not going to
    Reading to be fixed, you are not broken. You are going there to participate in
    everyone's growth including your own.\r\n\r\nI am sorry to sound like a verbose
    old man. Go there as a partner in learning and be who you are.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-05 14:28:57'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Lovely advice; thanks Chris.
  created: '2006-04-05 14:52:54'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Hrant, thanks for those pointers. I can see the point of something like the
    enigma g but with the curling loop hitting an angle and going rigid; but it'd
    have to be really good to be worth the loss of the familiar and satisfying counterpoint
    between top and bottom stories, as in the 1503 version.
  created: '2006-04-06 03:37:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the familiar and satisfying\r\n\r\nDo we really think laymen (as opposed
    to type designers who mostly naturally enjoy getting used to explicit features)
    are so -consciously no less- familiar with and satisfied by the closed form that
    they can't start reaping the benefits of the open form within an hour or whatever
    of first encountering it in a given text? It seems implausible to me. For example,
    when I show Patria to non--type-designers, nobody ever says anything about the
    \"g\". Most of them actually get embarassed because they have <cite>nothing</cite>
    to say about the face, good or bad - it's just another Times to them - but of
    course that \"transparency\" is the first hurdle for a text face.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-06 04:18:33'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Come come Hrant, you're usually the one who argues that those kind of details
    have a functional effect on immersive reading, whether or not they are deliberatively
    noticed.
  created: '2006-04-06 04:28:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "And I've been saying that the closed form is in fact worse\r\nfor immersive
    reading, even if it has a slight \"head start\"\r\nin terms of Familiarity. Also,
    I've been objecting to the\r\nidea that the open form never gets a chance to become\r\nfamiliar
    because the reader consciously rejects it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-06 04:38:10'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Hrant, isn't the area around the gap in the Voskens g one of too-high contrast,
    since thick black meets white meets thick black over such a short distance? It
    becomes the loudest bit of the letter, pulling it off-balance. I suppose that's
    arguable with vertical stress, but given the normal oblique stress of a Garalde,
    wouldn't one prefer the opening to be on the right rather than the left?
  created: '2006-04-06 16:25:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I agree that the terminal/gap balancing in the Voskens is a bit off.\r\nThere
    are other things I'd change too (especially if I were making\r\na text face).
    But at least it knows what it wants, unlike the \"g\" in\r\nmost Baskerville revivals
    (although I should note that revivals\r\nof the Fry's Baskerville tend to have
    it much more gutsy).\r\n\r\n> Given the normal oblique stress of a Garalde, wouldn\u2019t
    one\r\n> prefer the opening to be on the right rather than the left?\r\n\r\nWell,
    first of all I'm no fan of slavish adherence to ductus,\r\nquite the opposite.
    But let ask: do you actually mean that\r\nthe gap should be on the right end of
    the lower bowl?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-06 20:38:41'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: I mean a large opening on the right hand side of the lower bowl.
  created: '2006-04-06 20:59:24'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Personally, I think the only really successful lc roman g design aside from
    the closed binocular and typical monocular open one is Koch''s g in Kabel. (Not
    including blackletter or italic.) The open tails that are very discrete, like
    Baskerville''s, basically don''t change the color. When they get prominent, like
    Meta''s, I find them a bit distracting. Acceptable, but not really a success. '
  created: '2006-04-06 21:02:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'll second that, William. I've always disliked open bowls. I find them distracting
    and very rarely designed with much subtlety.
  created: '2006-04-06 21:13:40'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "hrant ranted:\r\n\r\n<cite>I\u2019ve come to believe that there is: it\u2019s
    much more harmonious with the \u201Cspirit\u201D of the Latin lowercase as a whole;
    the conventional (closed) form is really too complex; especially when it\u2019s
    doubled it can cause a distracting spike in the texture.</cite>\r\n\r\nThis evaluation
    seems a bit subjective to me. I'm not sure if there's any good literature on measuring
    complexity (Peter Enneson's \"role architecture\" concepts are the only thing
    that come immediately to mind), but in my seat-of-the-pants count, a Baskerville
    style lachrymal  lower g bowl has one more thing to count than a traditional garalde:
    in the latter, you have the 'T' join where the bowl closes, and in the former
    you have both the lachrymal terminal and the gap between that terminal and the
    main stroke.\r\n\r\nAn open 'g' in a sharp lineale such as Meta is even worse
    (by my rough counting scheme), because now you've got two sharp corners on the
    terminal, and they don't register as symmetrical because their role is so different.\r\n\r\n<cite>Do
    we really think laymen (as opposed to type designers who mostly naturally enjoy
    getting used to explicit features) are so -consciously no less- familiar with
    and satisfied by the closed form...</cite>\r\n\r\nI tested both the binocular
    and the sesquiocular (Meta-like) 'g' forms in Inconsolata on a bunch of laypersons,
    and latter always stood out as one of the first things they'd complain about.
    I was tempted by the sesquiocular form because I felt that the requirements of
    a monospace font exert a lot of pressure to take away black in the 'g' to avoid
    unevenness of color, and that the join of the lower bowl was one such place. Ultimately,
    I decided that the binocular form worked better, and now it's one of my favorite
    glyphs from the whole font - and something of a signature character for the font
    because so many of the glyphs are pretty vanilla.\r\n\r\nAs for whether the Baskervillian
    sesquiocular form is superior in immersive reading, that sounds like an empirical
    claim, and I'm going to want to see empirical evidence before I really believe
    it. I'm not saying that tradition is always good, but you had a lot of really
    brilliant type designers (and type design engineers, I would say, who sought practical
    readability as the primary goal as opposed to a merely aesthetic impression) over
    the last few hundred years, and there's a pretty strong consensus. Of course,
    Mr. Eaves himself definitely qualifies as a brilliant type design engineer, but
    maybe he's the exception that proves the rule.\r\n\r\nAmong the ATF designs from
    the Benton era, a very few used a sesquiocular g - Cheltenham, which was an adaptation
    of an earlier, somewhat bletcherous font; the ATF Baskerville of course; Souvenir
    (which isn't <em>exactly</em> sesquiocular, but isn't standardly monocular either),
    and some oddballs such as Hobo. (I don't have the catalogs in front of me to flip
    through, otherwise I'd probably find one or two classic Art Nouveau faces with
    interesting 'g' shapes).\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-06 21:34:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I mean a large opening on the right hand side of the lower bowl.\r\n\r\nWow.
    I can't see how to make that work.\r\nBut I'd encourage you to give it a shot.\r\nFor
    one thing it might make the \"g\"\r\nface the \"right\" way.\r\n\r\n> Koch\u2019s
    g in Kabel\r\n\r\nI love that one (especially for tiny screen type, strangely
    enough).\r\n\r\n> When they get prominent, like Meta\u2019s\r\n\r\nI think Meta's
    is pretty apologetic. But it\r\ndoes have a funny whitespace in there,\r\nand
    maybe that's what's getting you.\r\n\r\n> very rarely designed with much subtlety\r\n\r\nThere
    I agree.\r\nUnless you're looking for <cite>elegance</cite>, in which\r\ncase
    I'd say: don't look for too much of that\r\nin a text face.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-06 21:37:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "George:\r\n\"the effort to accept whatever Griffo made has consistently been
    rewarded by a new or strengthened perception of its excellence\"\r\n\r\nBut remember,
    what you are looking at is not what he \"made\", but what \"survived\".\r\n\r\n\"
    And one\u2019s eventual feelings about what actually exists are always more reliable
    than those about what might exist - which is a reason for literal revivals.\"\r\n\r\nThis
    statement makes total and complete sense, if your revival is metal. Otherwise,
    it's a slight increase in global warming.\r\n\r\n\"The evidence that the 1516er
    was designed all of a piece is as good as you\u2019re going to find in this period.\"\r\n\r\nOh
    good, that means you have the punches and/or the type, and receipts for their
    purchase, sale or creation?\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-07 14:41:15'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>what you are looking at is not what he \u201Cmade\u201D, but what \u201Csurvived\u201D.</cite>\r\nTrue,
    and more of your type scat info would be really helpful; but what survives contains
    information sufficient for us to determine the printed impresions Griffo could,
    with perfect knowledge of his craft, have expected his types to make, within a
    normally small but at any specific point unknowable range of error. \r\nThere's
    an element of global warming in \"one\u2019s eventual feelings about what actually
    exists are always more reliable than those about what might exist - which is a
    reason for literal revivals\" but, since I care about making a good photopolymer
    version rather more than making a good offset version, I don't think there's any
    proven reason to get fundamentalist about this. I don't count scat as essential
    to the value of letterpress, it irritates me.\r\n<cite>Oh good, that means you
    have the punches and/or the type, and receipts for their purchase, sale or creation?</cite>\r\nCorrect
    me if I'm wrong, but I didn't think any of that survives from before De Colines."
  created: '2006-04-07 15:20:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> This evaluation seems a bit subjective to me.\r\n\r\nWell, a bit (i.e.
    in part) sure - I'm human too. But it's also based on reasoning. One way to measure
    complexity is good ol' topology: only the \"B\" is as complex as the traditional
    \"g\", and at least it has its two counters abutting. Another way to evaluate
    -if not measure- complexity is to just look at the thing. It almost looks like
    a Chinese logograph.\r\n\r\n> latter always stood out\r\n\r\nLet's see it.\r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    I couldn't make a nice open \"g\" for\r\nCoda [either]. Hmmm, something in the
    mono water?\r\nOh wait, I know what it is: the sceen's coarseness.\r\n\r\n> the
    requirements of a monospace font exert a lot of pressure to take away black\r\n\r\nOn
    the other hand, especially in mono fonts the \"g\" tends to look smallish (because
    making it look nice gives is it a small head) and making it darkish can help.\r\n\r\n>
    that sounds like an empirical claim\r\n\r\nHow could it, when there's no data?\r\nIt's
    a design judgement (but based on more than just my whims).\r\n\r\n> Mr. Eaves
    himself definitely qualifies as a brilliant type design engineer\r\n\r\nRichard
    was a type designer?!\r\n\r\n> Cheltenham, which was an adaptation of an earlier,
    somewhat bletcherous font\r\n\r\nWhat font is that?\r\n\r\nBTW, if I remember
    correctly, the original ATF Clearface -a design which Bullen claimed was the first
    font designed \"scientifically\" for high legibility mind you- had an open \"g\"...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-07 15:22:08'
- author:
    name: lauraruggeri
  body: "Ciao!\r\nI was born in a town close to Soncino the town where Soncino family
    lived and worked.\r\nSoncino family printed the first bible in jewish.\r\nhttp://www.storiadellastampa.unibo.it/noframes/soncino.html\r\nIf
    you go to Italy go and visit the museum and the press of Soncino... in Soncino
    close to Cremona (north of Italy)\r\n\r\nMy favorite typeface of the renaissance
    was the one designed by Luca Pacioli. He designed it using the golden section.\r\nFrom
    that font Garamond designed the \"Garamond\" typeface and from that one Simoncini
    re-designed the \"Simoncini Garamond\" (which as a beautiful italic)\r\n\r\nCiao
    again"
  created: '2006-04-08 19:19:23'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "Hello Laura!\r\nYes, I've seen the website for this museum. Has it got any
    particular typographic goodies or information on Soncino as a typographer?\r\nYour
    history of type is quite new-school: it's Jannon you want to look up if you like
    (very sensibly) Simoncini Garamond."
  children:
  - author:
      name: lauraruggeri
    body: "Ciao Gio!\r\nAt the museum you can find all of sort of things... When my
      school took us there i remember my professor of typography explaining how much
      \"particular\" Soncino was in the details. He wanted everything perfect. He
      chose Griffo as the best punchcutter. He had to have the best inks and the best
      paper, etc. The research confirms that because of his high quality today we
      can still admire his work.\r\nMy father was a typographer handsetting for almost
      40 years... so i have ink of my hands since i was 5... Thanks to that i had
      the opportunity to know many stories in the typography world in Italy, especially
      north of Italy. \r\nIn 1989 i had the opportunity to design an antology exhibition
      about Giovanni Mardersteig  (1872-1977) and during that period i had the opportunity
      to view his archive... see how he designed fonts... sketches, notes, letters
      to other type-designers, etc. I also discovered that when he was designing the
      font Dante at some point he get sick and he could not go to Milano (from Verona)
      to view the progress of the work. The typography was the one where my father
      worked! and becuase my father was also a good designer, Mardersteig sent a letter
      asking to my father to design the letter \"e\" for him... to not stop the work
      in the foundary. \r\nAt the archive of Mardersteig i also could see many protopyes
      (in pear wood) of letters designed by Bodoni.\r\n\r\nThanks for the suggestion
      you gave me, i will go to look for Jannon."
    children:
    - author:
        name: George Horton
      body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/dantee.JPG]\r\nYour father made a
        lovely e."
      created: '2006-04-08 22:51:39'
    created: '2006-04-08 21:48:50'
  created: '2006-04-08 20:58:23'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: "<cite>One way to measure complexity is good ol\u2019 topology:</cite>\r\n\r\nExcuse
    me, but that's preposterous. By this metric, 'm' is simpler than 'o'. Try to make
    your argument again with a complexity metric that I can take seriously.\r\n\r\n<cite>Let\u2019s
    see it.</cite>\r\n\r\nFlash player 8 for Linux isn't out yet, so a <a href=\"http://raph.levien.com/tmp/ggg.png\">link</a>
    instead of an \"insert image\".\r\n\r\n<cite>How could it, when there\u2019s no
    data?</cite>\r\n\r\nOk, then I take back what I first said. It sounds like an
    empirical claim with no data to support it.\r\n\r\n<cite>What font is that?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    one that Bertram Grosvenor Goodhue in 1896 for the Cheltenham press. I'm just
    trying to assign the blame to Goodhue rather than to my role model Benton, as
    I can't bring myself to believe that my hero would be capable of creating such
    a thing from whole cloth.\r\n\r\n<cite>BTW, if I remember correctly, the original
    ATF Clearface -a design which Bullen claimed was the first font designed \u201Cscientifically\u201D
    for high legibility mind you- had an open \u201Cg\u201D\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nYes,
    a plain monocular one, which I'm sure we'd all agree is simpler than both the
    binocular and sesquiocular forms.\r\n\r\nLaura Ruggeri wrote:\r\n\r\n<cite>In
    1989 i had the opportunity to design an antology exhibition about Giovanni Mardersteig
    (1872-1977) and during that period i had the opportunity to view his archive\u2026
    see how he designed fonts\u2026 sketches, notes, letters to other type-designers,
    etc.</cite>\r\n\r\nWow, that sounds like an incredible opportunity. I'm very interested
    in Mardersteig's Zeno font, for which there is currently no digitization. Could
    you possible be able to help me out with my queries from <a href=\"http://www.typophile.com/node/12226\">this
    thread on Zeno</a>?"
  created: '2006-04-09 10:25:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Topology is <strong>a</strong> measure, not the only/best one. It's classically
    useful, and not inferior to your element-counting method, since that clearly failed
    here in revealing the over-complexity of the closed \"g\".  :-)\r\n\r\n> a link
    instead of an \u201Cinsert image\u201D.\r\n\r\nThe head is too big.\r\nThat shape
    wouldn't look nice even if you closed the bottom.\r\n\r\n> It sounds like an empirical
    claim\r\n\r\nClaiming the open \"g\" is generally better than the closed one for
    immersive reading is \"empirical\"? I guess I'll take your word for it (pardon
    the pun).\r\n\r\n> The one that Bertram Grosvenor Goodhue in 1896 for the Cheltenham
    press.\r\n\r\nI thought that was pretty much the same as Cheltenham. Sample?\r\n\r\n>
    I\u2019m just trying to assign the blame to Goodhue\r\n\r\nBlame for Cheltenham,
    or the earlier one?\r\nMany people don't like Cheltenham, while\r\nmany others
    admire it. I guess you're in\r\nthe former camp?\r\n\r\n> Yes, a plain monocular
    one\r\n\r\nYou're sure it wasn't an open binocular?\r\nLet me try to track down
    what I think I've seen...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-09 10:44:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Does anybody have a copy of Ch Perfect's \"The Complete Typographer\" handy?\r\nI
    can't seem to locate mine, and I think that's where I saw the Clearface with the\r\nopen
    bino \"g\".\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-09 17:08:49'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: The 1516 g, averaged from 17 impressions and sharpened:[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1516-g.png]
  created: '2006-04-09 20:11:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Way cool. Looks like Enigma's!  :-)\r\n\r\nBTW, that white \"incision\" a
    the bottom-right,\r\ndo you think it means you've actually averaged\r\ntwo separate
    designs/matrices for the \"g\"?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-09 21:10:06'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'Oddly, no: it''s a real feature of all the printed letters. One nice thing
    about averaging is that it shows you things to look for that you would never ordinarily
    have seen in the scanned imprints: one filters out everything that isn''t obviously
    role-architectural, because it''s perceived as just noise. That side of the lower
    bowl is either very sophisticated differentiation or a booboo.'
  created: '2006-04-10 00:09:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> nice thing about averaging\r\n\r\nIndeed.\r\nVirtually any designer would
    have normalized that,\r\nand hence deviated from what the type in effect <cite>was</cite>.\r\n\r\n>
    or a booboo.\r\n\r\nYeah, that one. Across the centuries I can almost\r\nhear
    Griffo cursing, when the matrix slipped from\r\nhis hand and hit that damn nail
    in the floorboards.  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 00:56:22'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I had to gallop through this thread, so may have missed some things (I'll
    return to it), but the operative question about the binocular 'g' has to be--to
    my mind at least--what has criterial cue-value toward visual wordform resolution
    here: closure, or the presence of a counter. I'll bet it's the latter. Perfect
    closure is probably secondary, but more than the typical monocular 'g' might be
    beneficial. \r\n\r\nThe problem with the binocular 'g' is managing the saliencies
    around the closure point of the lower bowl so the right things (the counters)
    have a proper and properly coordinated cue or pop-out value / aren't compromised
    by the density of black action between the monocles. Or is the 'disturbed expressedness'
    in that area one of the things we depend on in visual wordform resolution?\r\n\r\n(Not
    an answer, but a playing field for addressing the issue)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-04-10 01:04:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> more than the typical monocular \u2018g\u2019 might be beneficial.\r\n\r\nI'd
    say that the [typical*] monocular \"g\"\r\nhas a bigger problem than lack of closure.\r\n\r\n*
    But what do we think of the Eric Gill italic \"g\"?\r\n\r\n> Or is the \u2018disturbed
    expressedness\u2019 in that area one of\r\n> the things we depend on in visual
    wordform resolution?\r\n\r\nIf it is, then we better be doing that to a lot\r\nmore
    than just the \"g\"... Are we ready for that?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 01:12:24'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Previously:\r\n> I mean a large opening on the right hand side of the lower
    bowl.\r\n\r\nHey, check THIS out:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cheng_gs.gif]\r\n\r\nIt's
    from Cheng's book. I'd never seen \"g\"s\r\nlike that. And I'm not sure they don't
    work.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-12 17:53:25'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Thanks for this Hrant. What I would like to play with is most like the first
    g on the second line, but with the lower half rotated counter-clockwise about
    its centre say 10 degrees, pulled a touch away from the upper half, and its horizontals
    extended a little. (And also with a Plantin-style ear, 3:1 contrast and the upper
    half reduced in size).
  created: '2006-04-12 18:56:05'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"The problem with the binocular \u2018g\u2019 is managing the saliencies
    around the closure point of the lower bowl so the right things (the counters)
    have a proper and properly coordinated cue or pop-out value / aren\u2019t compromised
    by the density of black action between the monocles.\"\r\n\r\nExactly, and since
    most g's of this sort contain two quite different oculii, the point becomes less
    valid the more different they are, more valid as they befome truely binocularesque."
  created: '2006-04-13 16:51:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "So that means the top counter of the (binocular) \"a\" should be closed too?
    After all, it <cite>used</cite> to be (think blackletter). But we got over it.
    Let's do it for the \"g\" too.\r\n\r\nBTW, yesterday I realized another way the
    open-bottom \"g\" can get better integrated into the whole of a face is that it
    has a terminal, whose shape can be like other terminal shapes (like in the \"s\").
    I think this is significant.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nSome people prefer the conventional
    binocular \"g\" because they're conservative. But other people who don't have
    that problem who nonetheles prefer it I think are discouraged by all the cruddy
    open-bottom binocular \"g\"s out there; type design is in large part about imitation,
    and there are simply far fewer good examples to emulate. It's easier to make a
    good closed-bottom \"g\" because there are already good ones out there. But its
    birth defect will not allow it to run the marathon. At least not without coffee
    breaks.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 17:25:35'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"But its birth defect will not allow it to run the marathon. At least not
    without coffee breaks.\"\r\n\r\nWhat???\r\n\r\nA binocular g with a closed bottom
    no serifs, and no fancy terminals is a reader's g. That, is why there are so many
    around.The others, nice or follimous as they are, are designer g's."
  created: '2006-04-18 17:45:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> That, is why there are so many around.\r\n\r\nYou really think that designers
    have been minding subtle readability advantages? I think they've mostly just been
    following fashion - which I do agree is the motivation for the open \"g\" for
    most people - just not all of us.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 17:57:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...I think they\u2019ve mostly just been following fashion - which I do
    agree is the motivation for the open \u201Cg\u201D for most people...\"\r\n\r\nI
    didn't know it was fashionable. Everytime I post a face with an open bowl g, I
    get comments from folks who want it closed.  It must be a very secret fashion
    that nobody has heard about :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-18 20:16:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Like I said, it's hard[er] to make a good open one...  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 22:10:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yet more interesting -and not unpleasant- \"g\"s:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/transkrypt/superia/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/letraset/brighton/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 08:49:09'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: What about an unslanted Dante italic g, with weight taken from the chirographic
    swell on the upper right of the top circle and used as polyfiller (sp?) on the
    join with the ear, smoothing that transation while morphing the modelling of the
    circle into something like its counterpart in Electra?
  created: '2006-05-07 14:18:27'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Uh, pitchur please.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 15:07:55'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Drawn quickly, on a touchpad, with the paintbrush tool of the Gimp - it's
    nasty - [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Danteish g3_6100.JPG]
  created: '2006-05-07 16:17:05'
- author:
    name: Reed Reibstein
    picture: 111393
  body: "A tangential note to George's comment earlier in the thread about Griffo's
    1516 italic beating Pierre Haultin for the \"niche-interest record\" of making
    nonpareil-size type: Although Fred Smeijers writes in <em>Counterpunch</em> that
    Haultin was the first to make such small type, H.D.L. Vervliet in his 2000 paper
    \"Printing Types of Pierre Haultin (ca. 1510-87). Part I: Roman Types\" (<em>Quaerendo</em>
    30/2) and in the revised version in <em>The Paleotypography of the French Renaissance</em>
    seems to indicate that his was not the first (unless by a hair) but was, more
    importantly, the first to be widely used. \r\n\r\n\"The Haultin Nonpareil roman
    and italic found their way into the main stock of the major European typefoundries.
    They were available until the end of the eighteenth century and, in that type
    size, for most printers the only choice on the market.\" (From the 2000 paper,
    page 90)\r\n\r\n\"A Nonpareil type size was a rarity in early sixteenth-century
    typography and only owned by the better equiped printers. In France, I noted early
    uses by Estienne (1534) and Colines (1538). Haultin\u2019s type is a bit smaller
    (though its capitals are bigger) than the second 42 mm Nonpareil which Robert
    I Estienne used from about 1543 on in his octavo bibles.\" (page 97)"
  created: '2009-12-30 05:28:55'
- author:
    name: dojr2
  body: "I have just read this fascinating discussion. IMVHO, the only good g which
    opens on the right is in Jean-Fran\xE7ois Porchez's Ambroise.\r\n\r\nhttp://new.myfonts.com/search/ambroise/fonts/\r\nhttp://typofonderie.com\r\n\r\nHis
    Retiro's g is great too but more difficult to see on the samples etc.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    the best revival of Francesco's types may well be Frank Jalleau's Francesco\r\n\r\nhttp://beta.batfoundry.com/catalogue_4_francesco_.html\r\n\r\nAs
    for the g, my preference would go to a monocameral g or a sesquiocular g, provided
    there is a reduction of the top storey size. This is, imvho, the only thing that
    makes the g stand out from other letters, especially if one considers that the
    eye will be looking at the top third of each character for identification. Once
    the top storey is reduced, the shape of the tail is partly irrelevant (cf Minuscule)
    & I would favour the simplest design; the one that matches the way people currently
    write their g; more often than not, they do a monocameral g, with a closed loop
    so a monocameral g with an open loop should be easy to read. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-05-17 12:00:04'
date: '2006-04-04 15:31:31'
node_type: forum
title: First massive x-height?

---
