---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "Thomas Phiney or another Adobe person may be the best resource for this question.
  (hopefully they are available).\r\n\r\nIs the designation \u201CPro\u201D (as part
  of a font name) an Adobe proprietary name or is it useable by any foundry? Is this
  term considered to be a de-facto standard for large glyph set Opentype fonts? \r\n\r\nWe
  were discussing this in another thread where I was debating what to name one of
  my fonts but thought this forum a better place to get an answer.\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/18796\r\n\r\nAny
  thoughts?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
comments:
- author:
    name: Manlio Napoli
    picture: 111362
  body: <a href="http://www.myfonts.com/search?search%5Btext%5D=pro">Pro</a> isn't
    proprietary
  created: '2006-04-04 14:47:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "This question came up when Adobe released their first OpenType Pro fonts.
    From... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/links/news.aspx?NID=1474\r\n\r\n><EM>But
    what exactly makes an OpenType font a Pro font? </EM>\r\n>An Adobe OpenType font
    only gets the Pro designation if it has a minimum base character set and a reasonable
    number of OpenType features. The minimal Pro character set includes ISO-Adobe
    and Adobe CE character sets, plus the euro, litre, foursuperior and estimated
    symbols. \r\n\r\n> <EM>Can I call the OpenType fonts I make Pro fonts?</EM> \r\n>
    According to the OpenType list postings Adobe is not claiming any trademark on
    the Pro designation with reference to OpenType fonts. Although anyone is free
    to use the word, it would reduce end-user confusion if the type community remains
    consistent in their use of the term. \r\n\r\nBut Adobe could always change their
    mind. So you might want to reconfirm with Tom. \r\n\r\nSi\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 14:51:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would hope the type community could devise a standard for the sake of the
    type consumer. It may even be better to have a system like Adrian Frutiger came
    up with for Univers where two numbers told the tale quite easily. There could
    be 2 letters instead or 3 if need be but something is needed to let the consumer
    know what they are getting.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 15:45:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'I think it makes sense for vendors with large legacy libraries (eg Linotype,
    Adobe and Monotype) to standardize the naming of OpenType edition fonts. Here
    the "Pro" vs "Std" designation seems to work fine. Where things break down is
    the specialist fonts, that include just one or two carefully selected OpenType
    features. An example might be Ed Interlock.   '
  created: '2006-04-04 16:00:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am thinking more along the lines of language support. Something like XL
    for Latin Extended, XLC for Latin Extended plus Cyrillic, that sort of thing,
    as opposed to the multi lig replacement feature stuff in Ed Interlock.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 16:24:32'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>XL for Latin Extended, XLC for Latin Extended plus Cyrillic</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't like this, because:\r\n\r\n1. In the 21st Century, every OT font should
    have full CE support. Yet you still need to communicate this users through some
    sort of extension. I like \"Pro\" because, if nothing else, at least you know
    that they remembered to put CE in. Maybe CE isn't such a big deal in North America,
    but over here, you can't sell fonts without it. It is the bear minium, and even
    it doesn't cover all your working bases\u2026 right now, the EU has 25 member
    countries, and two writing systems. In a few years, it will certainly have three
    (Cyrillic), or even four (Arabic?).\r\n\r\n2. and because\u2026\r\n\r\n>XLC\u2026\r\n\r\nAnd
    then a CE + Greek font would be XLG? What happens when you put in Greek and Cyrillic?
    XLCG? Then Hebrew and Arabic? Helvetica World would need an XLCGHA extension.
    Or maybe XLCGHAV, since Vietnamese accents are in there, too."
  created: '2006-04-04 16:38:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> or even four (Arabic?).\r\n\r\nCool, which country were you thinking of?
    How about Hebrew? Israel is already part of Europe.*\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n*as
    it's part of the Eurovision song contest (edit - and UEFA) \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 16:46:11'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Well, I don't think either Israel or the EU wants a merger with the other
    party.\r\n\r\nI don't know if an Arabic-speaking country will be considered eligible
    for EU membership anytime before 2020 or 2030, but if one would be, it would probably
    be one of the North African ones. But by that time Europe will have such a large
    Arabic-speaking minority that Arabic will have to be added into the pile of quasi-official
    languages. I bet that there are already more Arabic-speakers living in the EU
    than say, Czech-speakers.\r\n\r\nI don't think that there are any Cyrillic-using
    countries in the EU yet, but Bulgaria or Serbia will probably join before 2015
    or 2020. And there is always Ukraine\u2026 some of the western half of Ukraine
    was part of \"Europe\"* until 1917/18.\r\n\r\n*As a part of the Austro-Hungarian
    Empire"
  created: '2006-04-04 16:52:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">But by that time Europe will have such a large Arabic-speaking minority
    that Arabic will have to be added into the pile of quasi-official languages.\r\n\r\nI
    hadn't thought of that. Another scenario (unlikely but possible) might be a future
    Turkish regime making Arabic an official script alongside Latin. \r\n\r\nSorry
    to have veered off-topic, but I suppose this helps explain Linotype's investment
    in new Arabic types and the hiring of the super talented Nadine Chahine, and sponsorship
    of the Dubai conference? The future is Arabic!"
  created: '2006-04-04 17:00:13'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "\"Although anyone is free to use the word, it would reduce end-user confusion
    if the type community remains consistent in their use of the term.\"\r\n\r\nAgreed.
    Unfortunately, this definition may not have been clear enough, as the Pro designation
    is being used by some foundries to indicate <em>advanced typographic features</em>
    rather than <em>extended multilingual character sets</em>. Can't think of any
    off hand. A little help?"
  created: '2006-04-04 17:20:59'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">A little help?\r\n\r\nSadly too many... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/search?search%5Btext%5D=PRO
    \r\n\r\n...few of these have the little MyFonts 'ce' icon. I hope these 20 are
    not representative. :-( "
  created: '2006-04-04 17:27:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nI am not saying that my little XL-XLC, etc., was the answer. I was
    just posing the question in hopes that something better would come out of this
    discussion than my first utterance. I also feel that CE should become a normal
    expectation as well as Greek and Cyrillic. The issue is letting the consumer know
    what they are getting.  Thnere will be quite a number of legacy fonts out there
    for some time that will not be extended with a full character set right away.
    I am just looking for a way to distinguish those that do from those that don't.
    \ If we settle on just \"Pro\", then we need define it in a meaningful way. If
    we need some other expressions that fill the bill, then let's come up with a system.\r\nI
    certainly don't want to tie a type naming system to the politics of the EU and
    who may or may not become part of it at some point. We are a world of numerous
    languages and several scripts. We all have a need to set type no matter what our
    political affiliations are to become. I think we can come up with a system that
    includes all glyph systems and scripts and use it before the political dust settles
    on the EU.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 18:20:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\nFrom your link, if you compare Card Pro, and Priva Pro, you see quite
    a large difference in language support.  Clearly, the term \"pro\" as it is used
    now on MyFonts, is not defining anything meaningfull.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 18:25:09'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "> Feature-rich Adobe OpenType fonts can be distinguished by the word \"Pro,\"
    \r\n<cite><a href=\"http://www.adobe.co.uk/type/opentype/main.html\">From Adobe
    OT site</cite></a>\r\n\r\nI'm confused myself over what \"Pro\" is supposed to
    represent. Adobe seems to use the term \"Pro\" to differentiate OpenType fonts
    from their PS/TT counterparts but it seems that more and more fonts are being
    released exculsively in OpenType format nowadays, would this render the \"Pro\"
    term meaningless? I think I've confused myself...\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 18:33:01'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: I just found <a href="http://www.typotheque.com/fonts/opentype_pro_vs_std/">this.</a>
    Typotheque appears to use "Std" and "Pro" terms to differentiate between Extended
    Latin and Cyrillic, Greek support. "Pro" including the Cyrillic and Greek language
    support in addition to Extended Latin.
  created: '2006-04-04 18:42:12'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Feature-rich Adobe OpenType fonts can be distinguished by the word \u201CPro,\u201D\r\n\r\nNote
    that my earlier defintions are based on postings made by Adobe people to the OpenType
    list five and a half years ago (September 2000). The meaning of 'Pro' may have
    changed, but more likely as OT aware apps have been developed the features rather
    than the char set are of more interest."
  created: '2006-04-04 19:11:49'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Someone call Phinney!
  created: '2006-04-04 19:13:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "If Adobe's meaning for the word has changed in 5 years, heaven help us from
    devining a standard from it :-)\r\n\r\nStephen is right. Put on the bat light
    and shine it on the clouds--Batman Phinney must be alerted!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 19:35:54'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ouronlyhope.jpg]'
  created: '2006-04-04 21:09:40'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Geoff Riding:\r\n<cite>... but it seems that more and more fonts are being
    released exculsively in OpenType format nowadays, would this render the \u201CPro\u201D
    term meaningless?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf all fonts by a foundry have the CE additions,
    then it is not really necessary to attach \"Pro\" to each font name ...\r\n\r\n<cite>Typotheque
    appears to use \"Std\" and \"Pro\" terms to differentiate between Extended Latin
    and Cyrillic, Greek support.</cite>\r\n\r\nI wonder if it's really important that
    \"Pro\" means the same with all foundries. The chaos is already there. Some even
    relate it to existence of OT feature, not to language support as was Adobe's way
    to use it.\r\nTypotheque documents make it very clear what they mean by \"Std\"
    and \"Pro\" -- so I see no problem there. It is more problematic if foundries
    would add it for mere marketing reasons, without knowing what this \"Pro\" designates
    for them. (Related, what do I get when I license an \"OpenType\" font?)\r\nWhen
    licensing fonts, I look very carefully what I will get and never trust mere words.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-04-04 21:39:39'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: '[sorry, double-clicked ...]'
  created: '2006-04-04 21:39:41'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "si: \"\u2026few of these have the little MyFonts \u2018ce\u2019 icon. I hope
    these 20 are not representative. :-(\"\r\n\r\nThe icons on the myfont site are
    setted by hand. They work (for many years) to fix this and to use an automated
    process to add the right icons. \r\n\r\nSo far, the absents of some icons is confusing.
    Hope they fix it soon or give the foundries/designers the possebility to set it
    by ourself. :-)\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\" target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-04-04 21:51:12'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\nGotta love it man!!! :-)\r\n\r\nYou made my day,\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-04 22:53:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "If only I knew how to use Photoshop I'd be dangerous - but perhaps the amateur
    nature of the image adds to the silliness. Thanks, Si\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-04 23:31:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>advanced typographic features</em>\r\n\r\nHandsome Pro.\r\nHandsome (2000)
    is Type 1/TrueType, and has \"adobe standard encoding\".\r\nHandsome Pro (2005)
    has lots of contextual alternates, but no CE support.\r\nHey, it was my first
    OT face, and hard enough to figure out how to get the feature to work, let alone
    do a mass of extra language glyphs for the alternates.\r\nMaybe one day Handsome
    Super Pro."
  created: '2006-04-06 03:34:04'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Maybe one day Handsome Super Pro.</em>\r\n\r\nWell you'll see <em>something</em>
    Super Pro at the end of the week. >^P"
  created: '2006-04-06 03:43:16'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Sorry, I was on vacation last week, so catching up a lot this week. Luckily,
    I saw the Phinn-signal!  :)\r\n\r\nAdobe does not have a trademark on the \"Pro\"
    designation for fonts, and welcomes other foundries using it, if they like. In
    an ideal world, we think the usage should be consistent, but it's up to each foundry
    what they do.\r\n\r\nAdobe's practice is to use \"Pro\" to designate (A) Latin
    fonts which have Adobe CE coverage in addition to the Adobe Western 2 character
    set, and (B) fonts with the Adobe-Japan1-5 or greater character set as opposed
    to fonts with the Adobe-Japan1-4 or lesser character set.\r\n\r\nFor case (A),
    these fonts may also have Greek and/or Cyrillic coverage, but it is not required.\r\n\r\nFor
    OpenType fonts that do not have CE coverage, Adobe calls them \"Standard\" regardless
    of the number of features involved. For example, Poetica Standard is is the result
    of merging 17 Type 1 fonts and has quite a few OpenType features. Similarly, Utopia
    Standard has an awful lot of typographic extras, but no CE coverage.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-04-06 08:28:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Thomas! Glad the Phinney light caught you :-)\r\n\r\n\"Adobe-Japan1-5
    or greater character set as opposed to fonts with the Adobe-Japan1-4 or lesser
    character set.\"\r\n\r\nWould you please explain the \"Japan set\"? I know I am
    not failiar with it and perhaps others might like to know as well.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-06 13:46:24'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: This may help, Adobe's <a href="https://istore.adobe.com/type/browser/info/charsets.html">Character
    Sets.</a>
  created: '2006-04-06 14:14:11'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Or look through the CJK and CID resources at the bottom part of <a href=\"http://partners.adobe.com/public/developer/font/index.html\">this
    list</a> of Adobe technical notes.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-04-07 04:31:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Thomas!\r\n\r\nHow is our little Miranda doing? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-07 13:19:18'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> How is our little Miranda doing? :-)\r\n\r\nJust don't show her the [[Phinn-signal]]
    prior to bedtime. ;-)\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-07 19:04:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "LOL!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-07 20:39:22'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Actually, she was sitting on my knee when I was re-checking the thread just
    now. I pointed at the Phinn-signal, and asked her who that was. \"Daddy!\" she
    happily exclaimed. So no problem.\r\n\r\nMiranda is otherwise just fine. Started
    toilet-training herself just over a month ago, which was a little odd for a kid
    at 21 months, but I'm not complaining.\r\n\r\nCheers,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-04-08 04:02:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "My daughter Julia did it the same way at that age. One day she just decided
    it was time and that was the end of it. She has always been a self starter and
    never took kindly to coaxing :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-08 04:50:31'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Sorry to come to this party beyond fashionably late.\r\n\r\nChris: <em>I
    am thinking more along the lines of language support. Something like XL for Latin
    Extended...</em>\r\n\r\nWhat is Latin Extended? How far is it extended? Why not
    farther? How do you label fonts that are extended farther? XXL? XXXL? XXXXL?"
  created: '2006-04-09 03:58:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'When we first in introduced the 650+ char WGL4 fonts some people called them
    the "fat fonts" to distinguish them from the smaller CP1252 versions - so the
    XL thing might work. Although I think this is more a subtle superbowl reference
    from Chris. '
  created: '2006-04-09 04:03:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"What is Latin Extended? How far is it extended? Why not farther?\"\r\n\r\nJohn,
    that is exactly my question. There should be a brief 2 or 3 glyph term which means
    all latin based languages, and other brief terms for other scripts. I don't pretend
    to have the answer, that is why I asked.  If the term \"Pro\" is to fill that
    need, then it needs to be defined much better.\r\n\r\nSi, XL is my T-shirt size
    and NOTHING more :-)\r\n\r\n ChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-09 04:18:41'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "The trouble with the Latin script, in particular, is that it is an open set.
    I'm not sure anyone has a really good idea of what would constitute a full list
    of languages written in the Latin script, and in Africa and the Americas it tends
    to be the script of choice for newly written languages. Even though no new decomposable
    diacritics are being added to Unicode, new Latin letters continue to be added.
    When Unicode 5.0 is rolled out later this year, it will contain 27 additional
    Latin letters for writing modern languages, plus others for phonetic transcription.\r\n\r\nA
    fully extended Latin font -- i.e. one intended to support all the languages written
    in the script -- would also, as a basic requirement, need to support dynamic mark-to-letter
    and mark-to-mark positioning for a very large number of combining mark characters.
    Any OpenType font without extensive GPOS feature support would not qualify.\r\n\r\n\r\nI
    don't find the term 'Pro' very helpful in the kinds of fonts I produce. The minimum
    requirements for a Pro font defined by Adobe are fine -- basically a kind of pan-European
    Latin coverage, minus some minority languages -- but of course the term doesn't
    tell you what else is in a font beyond the minimum. Frankly, I don't think this
    kind of information can be conveyed in a font name, because the information is
    too complex. What this suggests to me is that there needs to be better access
    to font name table entries, so that one can query a font from within, say, an
    application menu and find out information about character set coverage.\r\n\r\nIdeally,
    somewhere down the road, the actual cmap table of a font could be crossreferenced
    to a database of languages at the system or application level, so two-way queries
    could be made, e.g. 'Show me all the fonts that support language X' or 'Show me
    what languages X font supports'. A lot of work needs to be done to catalogue this
    information, though, and it will require a large, collaborative effort. The WRIT
    project I worked on for MS in 1998 was aimed at this kind of cross-referencing
    of fonts to languages: we just got our toes wet with approx. 700 reasonably well
    documented languages."
  created: '2006-04-09 04:59:57'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Among other things, MacOSX's Character Palette does something really nice,
    by listing all the installed fonts that contain a selected character. Can one
    do that in WinXP?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ms_macosx_cp.png]"
  created: '2006-04-09 05:45:32'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "That's nice, Miguel. No, nothing similar in Windows XP, although it would
    be easy enough to implement, I think. From the look of it, everything is derived
    from the Unicode data files.\r\n\r\nTell me, in the GLyph Variants... field, does
    this work for OT (GSUB entries) or just for AAT (Zapf table entries)?"
  created: '2006-04-09 05:57:51'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Good question. It looks like it only works for AAT. I selected Warnock Pro
    and didn't get any of the alternates.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ms_aat_zap.png]"
  created: '2006-04-09 17:47:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "John,\r\nI am also hoping for a method that would allow a potential buyer
    the option to see language support for a given font so he can evaluate it for
    purchase. This would of course have to be web based and take the operating system
    out of the picture. I am thinking there must be a way to read the encoding of
    a font and place a code in a given field. This field could be looked up as part
    of the standard search for a font at a resellers site. The code could be deciphered
    into a language list displayed on the sellers site. This would take out the hand
    work of putting often inaccurate language icons on the MyFonts site for example.
    \r\nThe same sort of thing could be done to generate a list of opentype features.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-09 18:44:17'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "<em>Ideally, somewhere down the road, the actual cmap table of a font could
    be crossreferenced to a database of languages at the system or application level,
    so two-way queries could be made, e.g. \u2018Show me all the fonts that support
    language X\u2019 or \u2018Show me what languages X font supports\u2019. A lot
    of work needs to be done to catalogue this information, though, and it will require
    a large, collaborative effort.</em>\r\n\r\nSomething kind of like this?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fileformat.info/info/unicode/char/1625/fontsupport.htm"
  created: '2006-04-09 21:47:38'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Something kind of like this?</em>\r\n\r\nBoth that and the Apple character
    map are simply dealing with Unicode blocks, which is pretty simple to do, and
    for some blocks you have a pretty good idea of correlation between the script
    and language because it is basically one-to-one. But most scripts are used to
    write more than one language: some are used to write dozens, and the Latin script
    is used to write hundreds. So being able to map fonts to languages is much more
    problematic."
  created: '2006-04-09 23:24:32'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Currently (10.4.x), the variants in Mac OS X (visible in the system Character
    Palette and in the Typography palette) only appear when a font has the Zapf table.
    \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-04-10 12:29:27'
date: '2006-04-04 14:28:05'
title: "Is the Term \u201CPro\u201D Adobe property or a defacto standard?"

---
