---
author:
  name: Toby Macklin
body: "Hi - This is the first time I've posted to this site. I have noticed some some
  discussions about Armenian, though, and some Armenian names, so I think this might
  be a good place to ask my question. I've been asked to typeset three versions of
  a short book, in English, Greek and Armenian (about Armenians in medieval Cyprus).
  The first two languages I can do, but Armenian is new to me.\r\n\r\nThe book wil
  be quite simple - mainly straight text, with maybe a couple of levels of heading,
  and some quotations.\r\n\r\nI could do with some pointers to get started. I had
  a look at these fonts:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.monotypeimaging.com/ProductsServices/wt_fontsample.aspx?type=armenian\r\n\r\nFirst
  of all, are they any good? Would you recommend others? (For what it's worth I'll
  probably set the the other language versions in Garamond premier pro). I showed
  this page to an Armenian friend who thought Monotype Inclined looked good for a
  book text.\r\n\r\nWhat's the relationship between upright and inclined? I had a
  look at some Armenian books and it seems you can set 'ordinary' text with the inclined.
  Is that right? And are there some basic conventions for setting, for example, the
  title of a book or something else that in an English text would go in italic?\r\n\r\nThat's
  probably enough for now...\r\n\r\nThanks very much\r\n\r\nToby\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: If only we had an Armenian font expert on Typophile ;-)
  created: '2006-04-06 19:10:27'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> First of all, are they any good?\r\n\r\nNope, not at all, according to
    the current type design standards. These are quite old faces. Some are OK, but
    still. Anyways, I don't think they're available to the public either.\r\n\r\n>
    Would you recommend others?\r\n\r\nSure!\r\nFree (nevertheless good) ones: <a
    href=\"http://matenadaran.org/eng/fonts/\">Matenadaran's Font Project</a>\r\nCheap
    (and very good) ones: <a href=\"http://www.paratype.com/asearch/sresult.asp?Search=&ftype=All&enclang=lang&flang=84&ffoundry=All&Keyword=All&x=41&y=11\">Paratype's
    Armenian Fonts</a>"
  created: '2006-04-06 20:16:46'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Of the \"classic\" Monotype fonts:\r\nAramian and Barz have good readability,
    but the former is ugly while the latter is very old-fashioned (and has letterwise
    legibility issues). Nork is the most Latinized, and the least readable. The other
    two seem pretty bad.\r\n\r\nIn contrast, check out this beauty:\r\nhttp://www.tdc.org/news/2006Results/Calouste.html
    _\r\nMiguel is too modest to toot his own horn. Quite unlike me:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ad/CR.pdf
    _\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_rome1.html\r\n\r\n> Nope, not at all, according
    to the current type design standards.\r\n\r\nBut Miguel, those \"current type
    design standards\", at least when it comes to Armenian, are seriously flawed:
    Latinized, low-readability, uninspired (or rather, inspired from the wrong sources).\r\n\r\nOf
    the Matenadaran fonts, only Aramian is useful for setting\r\na dignified Armenian
    book. As for the Paratype fonts: I used\r\nto make stuff like that. Then I woke
    up. I had my personal\r\nlittle \"zartonk\" as we say.\r\n\r\n> Garamond\r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    this was also the initial choice of Emily Artinian for her project (the \"From
    Ararat to Angeltown\" mentioned in that PDF). It's not a bad choice, especially
    considering its small x-height, which matches [good] Armenian type. But once she
    saw Nour&Patria, it was Game Over. But in this case finding a matching Greek might
    be tricky... Let me know if I can help: hpapazian_thatsymbol_gmail_dot_com\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-06 21:16:25'
- author:
    name: Toby Macklin
  body: Thanks Miguel and Hrant for your help. I'm following up the links now. Thanks
    Hrant for your address and I will be in touch. Toby
  created: '2006-04-08 05:42:51'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <strong><em>Miguel is too modest to toot his own horn.</em></strong>\r\n\r\nThe
    only reason why I didn't mentioned Calouste was because it still isn't available.
    And that image on the TDC site does not do it any justice. Check these 2 PDFs
    instead: <strong><a href=\"http://adhesiontext.com/pdf/Calouste.pdf\">Specimen</a></strong>
    & <strong><a href=\"http://adhesiontext.com/pdf/Calouste_TDC2.pdf\">TDC poster</a></strong>\r\n\r\n>
    <strong><em>But Miguel, those \u201Ccurrent type design standards\u201D, at least
    when it comes to Armenian, are seriously flawed: Latinized, low-readability, uninspired
    (or rather, inspired from the wrong sources).</em></strong>\r\n\r\nYou're right,
    to some extent. But doesn't that happen with a lot of other non-Latin scripts?
    Latin typeface design has always been ahead of the rest since the dawn of printing*,
    and it's not uncommon to see non-native type designers setting milestones for
    non-Latins. With respect to Armenian, <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/granjon/robert/\">Robert
    Granjon</a> (Rome 1579) and <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/van-dijck/christoffel/\">Christopher
    van Dyck</a> (Amesterdam 1661) have definitely brought up the \"standards\". Even
    the highly regarded work of <a href=\"http://www.tdc.org/news/mnatsakanyan.html\">Henrik
    Mnatsakanyan</a> (which I truly respect, and that served as one of my references)
    can be considered quite Latinised.\r\nAnd when I said \u201Ccurrent type design
    standards\u201D I was thinking of how old Monotype's Armenians are: Monotype Armenian
    Upright and Inclined (formerly Armenian Series 638) were released in March 1962;
    Aramian, Barz and Nork can be found in a Compugraphic catalogue dated 1987.\r\n\r\n*
    Regarding Armenian, compare, for example, the first Armenian printed book, by
    Yakob Me\u0142apart (Venice 1512), with the works of <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/jenson/nicolas/\">Nicolas
    Jenson</a> and <a href=\"http://www.myfonts.com/person/griffo/francesco/\">Francesco
    Griffo</a> a handful of decades before.\r\n\r\n> <strong><em>Of the Matenadaran
    fonts, only Aramian is useful for setting a dignified Armenian book.</em></strong>\r\n\r\nHow
    can you possibly say this?!?! <em>FMBF Aramian</em> is essentially based on Monotype's
    Armenian Series 638 and Mergenthaler-Linotype's Armenisch (circa 1964). In addition,
    it contains \"wrong\" characters: <strong>f</strong> (U+0066) is used instead
    of <strong>\u0584</strong> (U+0584 ARMENIAN SMALL LETTER KEH).\r\nFrom the fonts
    already available, <em>FMBF Hanragitaran</em> seems to be the best choice for
    book typesetting. It was created in 2004, by Ruben Tarumian, based on a design
    by Henrik Mnatsakanyan (circa 1969), and is the font used by the Armenian Soviet
    Encyclopedia.\r\n\r\nOn a similar note, I'd like to say that (the Amenian block
    of) <em>Arial Unicode</em> (available on WindowsXP) is no good option, since the
    characters were taken from <em>Monotype Armenian Upright</em>. And <em>Mshtakan</em>,
    MacOSX's Armenian font family, is simply dreadful (sorry Mr. Everson).\r\n\r\n>
    <strong><em>I used to make stuff like that.</em></strong>\r\n\r\nHow painful is
    it to see Maral still around? Sorry, just giving you a bad time ;^)"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Toby Macklin
    body: "Thanks Miguel for the new PDF of Calouste. Very handsome, and the influence
      of Minion might mean that Minion Greek would be a good companion. A pity it's
      not available!\r\n\r\nI'm enjoying piecing bits and pieces together from a conversation
      that in some ways goes over my head. A good way to learn I think. I'm still
      interested to hear how typesetting conventions might apply in Armenian - e.g.
      the relationship between upright and oblique (or italic?). Do these tend to
      be latinized too, or does Armenian retain its own conventions?\r\n\r\nHrant
      - I remember a Papazian's music shop in Cairo - I think I rented a piano from
      them and I certainly recall rooting through dusty piles of sheet music there.\r\n\r\nToby"
    created: '2006-04-09 08:38:18'
  created: '2006-04-08 17:35:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> But doesn\u2019t that happen with a lot of other non-Latin scripts?\r\n\r\nSadly,
    it most certainly does. And it's very hard\r\nto recover from. Greek is doing
    better than most.\r\nIn spite of the chauvinists, style-mongers, agents\r\nof
    the status-quo, and/or draconian Modernists.\r\n\r\nBut Miguel, I didn't say that
    wasn't the <cite>standard</cite>,\r\nwhat I said was that the standard is no good.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\n> Latin typeface design has always been ahead of the rest\r\n\r\nWait:
    And we want to keep it that way?!\r\n\r\n> Granjon, van Dijk\r\n\r\nTwo of my
    Armenian type heroes. The latter in fact I consider to\r\nhave made the best Armenian
    type in history (so far). But the key\r\nto their success (and the key to Mnatsakanyan's...
    incompleteness,\r\nI'm sorry to say) was that their work was NOT Latinized. You
    don't\r\nhave to be a \"native\" to make great type, even for text (but you do\r\nneed
    to be -or become- native if you're going to <cite>push</cite>).\r\n\r\n> FMBF
    Aramian is essentially based on ...\r\n\r\nWhen did I say it was original? I said
    it was readable.\r\nI've made an \"Aramian\" too (it's called \"Ardahan\"), and\r\nfor
    the longest time it was my most readable Armenian font.\r\n\r\n> FMBF Hanragitaran
    seems to be the best choice for book typesetting.\r\n\r\nSo I guess you would
    use ITC Garamond to set a book? Come on.\r\nThe x-height is too big for good readability
    (for Armenian).\r\nAnd I actually have proof, or at least very good evidence.\r\nAre
    you sitting down?... Hanragitaran and Maral are essentially\r\nthe same thing!
    And Maral was used for the lauch of AIM magazine\r\nback when; but after a few
    issues we got enough explicit complaints\r\nabout readability from laymen (this,
    after people were salivating\r\nover the look of the new type at the debut) that
    we had to dump it\r\n(for text) and make an Aramian instead! It took me YEARS
    to figure\r\nout why: the vertical proportions. So Maral/Hanragitaran failed in\r\nmagazine
    setting, not even a book!\r\n\r\nAlso, an obese x-height is much worse than an
    errant \"keh\".\r\n\r\nArial Unicode:\r\nIts Armenian is beyond \"no good\" -
    it contains serious structural mistakes.\r\n\r\nMshtakan:\r\nEverson tried his
    best (and I helped him a little bit), and it really could have been worse, but
    Apple should really have found a designer more qualified in Armenian. But first,
    they have to care about type...\r\n\r\n> Maral ... just giving you a bad time\r\n\r\nI
    deserve it (and in more ways than one).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-08 21:35:52'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "BTW, for the record, as much as I might be critical of a\r\nlot of the work
    of fellow Armenian type designers, I want\r\npeople to know that I'm ecstatic
    and grateful that they\r\nexist and they do this work: to me it's much more valuable\r\nthan
    having more Armenian lawyers, doctors and jewelers.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-08 21:51:32'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <strong><em>Greek is doing better than most.</em></strong>\r\n\r\nAlleluia!
    Thank \u0396\u03B5\u03CD\u03C2  :^D\r\nWho knows, perhaps by the year 2027 we'll
    have Adobe's Mega Pro fonts that'll include Armenian.\r\n\r\n> <strong><em>And
    we want to keep it that way?!</em></strong>\r\n\r\nCertainly not. That's why some
    people work on things other than Latin. But these are probably less than 1% of
    the total, so we can't expect much. And then there's the argument of number of
    users, piracy, and so on. I'm telling you, once the Chinese rule the world, everything
    will be different. Just wait! (Or should I say, \"Don't wait, start learning Chinese
    NOW!\") ;^)\r\n\r\n> <strong><em>The latter in fact I consider to have made the
    best Armenian type in history</em></strong>\r\n\r\nI second that. Up until the
    mid-20th century, Armenian type designs were essentially based on his work, no
    major breakthroughs. (Where was everyone? Fighting invaders and infidels? And
    where's <em>Matthew Carter Armenian</em>?)\r\n\r\n> <strong><em>So I guess you
    would use ITC Garamond to set a book?</em></strong>\r\n\r\nI said, <em>From the
    fonts already available, ...</em>\r\n\r\n> <strong><em>Hanragitaran and Maral
    are essentially the same thing!</em></strong>\r\n\r\nOh, that's true. I admit
    I hadn't noticed that. You know, it's hard to keep track of these things when
    more than one typeface is called Ararat, Erevan, Aramian, Arial Armenian, Grqi
    or Times Armenian. More so when the diferences between them are just slightly
    noticeable. BTW, Arasan and Nork are also the \"same\" thing, right?\r\n\r\n>
    <strong><em>that we had to dump it (for text) and make an Aramian instead!</em></strong>\r\n\r\nThat's
    almost the same thing as saying that Word users can't read what they're typing
    if the default font is not Times. Can't we atribute part of that failure to the
    clich\xE9 \"People read best what they read most\"? I mean, that's why some things
    (and some people) are still stuck in time. Or am I completely wrong?\r\n\r\n>
    <strong><em>an obese x-height is much worse than an errant \u201Ckeh\u201D</em></strong>\r\n\r\nYou
    must know better. Unfortunately I can't read the <em>damn</em> thing  ;^P\r\n\r\n>
    <strong><em>I deserve it (and in more ways than one).</em></strong>\r\n\r\nYou
    don't need to be so hard on yourself. Some times the only alternative we have
    is through trial and error. And that's acceptable, as long as we give the best
    of ourselves at each time. (Besides, I know that behind the <em>hatred</em> persona
    you nurture on-line, there's a good man that cares for his mother script)  :^)\r\n\r\n>
    <strong><em>fellow Armenian type designers [...] it\u2019s much more valuable
    than having more Armenian lawyers, doctors and jewelers.</em></strong>\r\n\r\nRather
    than <em>more valuable</em>, I'd say that Armenian type designers are <em>very
    necessary</em>. But all in all I agree with you. Quantity does not mean quality,
    but the more people we have working for the same goal, the faster we'll get there."
  created: '2006-04-09 01:50:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I tried to take a night class in Mandarin last year.\r\nAbout halfway through
    the first class I realized that\r\nthe teacher had a lisp. You should've seen
    me sneak out\r\nof the classroom, like a ninja. Oh wait, that's Japanese.\r\n\r\n>
    Where was everyone?\r\n\r\nTrying to regroup after the Genocide?...\r\n\r\n> it\u2019s
    hard to keep track of these things when \r\n> more than one typeface is called
    Ararat, Erevan ...\r\n\r\nYou should hear what happened to Garamont.  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    Arasan and Nork are also the \u201Csame\u201D thing, right?\r\n\r\nYou could say
    that Arasan is a sans version of Nork.\r\nOr you could say that they both derive
    from Clarendon.\r\nBut Arasan's more relevant attributes are that: it looks\r\ncrystal
    onscreen; and it's free.\r\n\r\nBTW, Hanragitaran is inspired quite strongly\r\nfrom
    Cheltenham - at least I tend to think so.\r\nAnd Cheltenham has been one of my
    earliest, and\r\ncontinues to be one of my strongest, inspirations.\r\nSome people
    say Patria's caps remind them of the\r\nones in Cheltenham, even though I actually
    made\r\nno conscious effort in that direction. And quite\r\ninterestingly, Hanragitaran's
    caps I find really\r\nvery beautiful, if cold in their Latinized tameness,\r\nalthough
    really, fully authentic Armenian caps\r\nare too extravagant for typesetting.\r\n\r\n>
    \u201CPeople read best what they read most\u201D?\r\n\r\nThere is of course a
    truth in that, but there are also\r\nsevere limits to it. In fact my opinion is
    that it's a\r\nsimplification to the point of being false. There are\r\nrealities
    to the human reading \"firmware\" that\r\nclearly cause some fonts to be more
    readable than\r\nothers, almost no matter how familiar you are with\r\nwhich one(s).
    But yes, almost.\r\n\r\nIn this case for example, people didn't notice/voice their\r\ndifficulty
    in reading Maral in long passages until issue #3.\r\nYou'd think that by that
    time they would've gained enough\r\nfamiliarity with it, no? I think they did
    to an extent, just\r\nnot enough to overcome an inherent readability flaw, the\r\nlop-sided
    vertical proportions. It's really a display face.\r\n\r\nIn contrast, Aramian's
    \"keh\", no matter how misguided it is,\r\ncan be learned, gotten familiar with
    as a structure - and since\r\nit doesn't look like any other letter it can become
    a harmonious\r\npart of the family (even if it's not really authentic). But some-\r\nthing
    like Aramian's \"ho\" is both inauthentic and dysfunctional\r\nin its severe similitude
    to other letters.\r\n\r\n> You don\u2019t need to be so hard on yourself.\r\n\r\nBut
    somehow I need to repay my debt to Mnatsakanyan\r\n(even if others look the other
    way). I was getting ready\r\nto do so at the ATypI conference in Rome - then he
    died.\r\nThen I got marginally involved in the publication of his\r\ncomprehensive
    posthumous specimen book, and pledged\r\nto donate $1000 to the effort - but that
    didn't fly either.\r\nAnd now in my current position giving a lot of money to\r\nsomething
    like that is decidedly reckless... But maybe I\r\ncan do something else.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-09 02:31:02'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <strong><em>But Arasan\u2019s more relevant attributes are that: it looks
    crystal onscreen</em></strong>\r\n\r\nIndeed I know that. Well done! At one point,
    I even considered making a pixel font based on its bitmaps, to use in a Flash
    project that eventually got dropped.\r\n\r\n> <strong><em>But somehow I need to
    repay my debt to Mnatsakanyan</em></strong>\r\n\r\nWhat about doing a 200-copy
    facsimile edition of his \u0540\u0531\u0545\u053F\u0531\u053F\u0531\u0546 \u054F\u0531\u054C\u0531\u054F\u0535\u054D\u0531\u053F\u0546\u0535\u0550
    \u2013 Armenian Typefaces (1979) for ATypI Lisbon? (Paperback, 160 pages, 1 colour,
    7.8 \xD7 10.2 in) How expensive can that be? I'm sure a few people would be interested
    to be introduced to Armenian type design. You'd be creating awareness towards
    the script, and spreading some seeds which could blossom in nice surprises. One
    could even wrap it in a paper with the warning: \"Latinised content. Please proceed
    with care\". Seriously, I could even try to see if the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation
    would be interested to sponsor it. Think about it.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ms_mnatsak.png]"
  created: '2006-04-09 05:27:33'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "You're welcome. Thanks! Yes, I think it'd work well with Minion. Sorry about
    that.\r\n\r\n> <strong><em>I\u2019m still interested to hear how typesetting conventions
    might apply in Armenian</em></strong>\r\n\r\nI asked myself that question when
    I was designing the specimen booklet. As far as I can tell from the samples I
    have available (newspapers, magazines, pictures of old books' pages, paragraphs
    of text in catalogues), seems like the conventions are pretty much the same. One
    thing peculiar about Armenian is that guillemets ( <strong>\xAB \xBB</strong>
    ) are used instead of quotes ( <strong>&#x201C; &#x201D;</strong> ). Some of the
    samples use the oblique variant for the main body and upright for the rest (e.g.
    captions), but I don't know if that style still prevails nowadays. Hrant will
    know better.\r\n\r\nOne problem you might come across is hyphenation. The popular
    layout applications won't know where to breakup the words, so you either end up
    with an extreme ragged paragraph or a paragraph full of huge rivers, unless you
    break the words yourself. InDesign can't do it, and I can't read Armenian, so
    some of the typesetting in Calouste's specimen is not as good as it could be."
  created: '2006-04-09 14:57:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Miguel, I think involving the Gulbenkian Foundation in the ATypI conference
    is a great idea of itself! Re-issuing the most-recent Mnatsakanyan specimen book
    might be interesting (was there ever a copyright agreement between the Soviet
    Block and Portugal?) but if I were them I'd actually focus on you instead! :-)
    \ Anyway, I was lucky to find a copy of that book during my trip to Armenia in
    2000, and I'll take a closer look at it today.\r\n\r\n> Minion Greek would be
    a good companion.\r\n\r\nI think it would be a <cite>decent</cite> companion.
    But I would take the time to look around, like among the fonts of Haratzopoulos.
    Or you could get Miguel to customize Minion Greek (maybe as simple as changing
    the serifs/terminals) for you!\r\n\r\n> the relationship between upright and oblique\r\n\r\nThere
    are a few things at play there. One is that, because of the classic manuscript
    hand and the ensuing crushing, centuries-long dominance of Barz, slanted text
    is naturally more culturally authentic for Armenian. This leaves less room for
    an \"italic\" (especially with the pronounced slant of Barz). Another factor is
    that Armenian letters look much better with semi-serifs rather than full serifs;
    the reason being that there are very many stems in Armenian (especially in the
    x-height) and full serifs everywhere (as much Latinizers love that...) ruin everything.
    And when you put semi-serifs (where people can be said to expect them) on upright
    forms, they look like they're falling backwards... And another thing is that Armenian
    needs italic far less than (almost all) Latin-based languages do, because we have
    a floating emphasis mark that can be placed on any vowel (even more than one in
    a word). Italics in Armenian is a bit like smallcaps in Latin: nice, but a luxury
    of sorts.\r\n\r\nSo I think the best approach is to: make the \"roman\" cut <cite>slightly</cite>
    slanted (sadly, any slant has been extremely rare for decades now - although Miguel
    has done it! :-) to leave room for an Italic; but not insist on having an Italic
    in every font. Actually, even in Latin I personally prefer a (good) demi weight
    for emphasis anyway!\r\n\r\n* For example see how cluttered the Armenian subordinate
    of Patria is.\r\n\r\n> a Papazian\u2019s music shop in Cairo\r\n\r\nPapazian is
    not an uncommon surname. I remember walking into a souvenir shop in Delphi, where
    -as usual- the salesman tried to soften me up: this one ferreted out a connection
    with me in the fact that his mother was Armenian. But when it turned out that
    her surname was Papazian, and I whipped out my passport to <cite>prove</cite>
    that mine was too, <cite>I</cite> was the one to get the upper hand in the de
    rigeur haggling.  :-)\r\n\r\n> Some of the samples use the oblique variant\r\n>
    for the main body and upright for the rest\r\n\r\nWhich of course makes the upright
    parts look like they're falling backwards!\r\nThe English insert of tipoGrafica
    magazine has this problem too.\r\n\r\nThe Armenian typesetters of the past who
    did that were simply being expedient: they wanted to use a slanted face for body
    (because that was both stylistically and functionally desirable) but had no italic
    or bold available (and never letterspaced, like the Germans did, and rarely all-capsed).
    So the only good way left to mark contrast was using an upright font. These days
    though I think it's far less bad to use a mechanically bolder or even a further-slanted
    style for emphasis if you get stuck.\r\n\r\n> hyphenation\r\n\r\nThere's actually
    a standing conundrum in Armenian hyphenation: when you break the line across a
    syllable that has an unmarked \"eh\" sound in it, you add an explicit \"et\" letter
    at the end of the syllable (before you break it).* On top of that if you end up
    removing the break, when you collapse the word back together it's extremely hard
    for a dumb computer to know if the \"et\" gets removed or left in place! :-/  There
    was a movement to do away with this particular hyphenation rule, but I for one
    am no fan of changing language simply to avoid writing smarter algorithms.\r\n\r\n*
    As far as I know this rule was put in place because if the break were to happen
    at the first syllable, and that syllable had that issue, you'd end up with a single
    letter followed by a hyphen, which is quite ungainly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-09 16:07:01'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Miguel, I just checked: unlike some of my other Armenian type\r\nspecimen
    books, the 1979 Mnatsakanyan is actually in very good\r\nshape. However, it does
    have a copyright declaration - which is\r\nnot very surprising of course, but
    I wonder if it applies here.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-09 18:48:44'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> <em>the 1979 Mnatsakanyan is actually in very good shape</em>\r\n\r\nGood.
    I can get access to a copy too, if needed.\r\n\r\n> <em>was there ever a copyright
    agreement between the Soviet Block and Portugal?</em>\r\n\r\nI have no idea. Could
    we try to contact and enquire the publisher?\r\n\r\n> <em>Or you could get Miguel
    to customize Minion Greek</em>\r\n\r\nRight, and I could change my identity along
    the way :^/"
  created: '2006-04-10 01:49:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...Check these 2 PDFs instead...\"\r\n\r\nMiguel! That is some MAJOR gorgeous
    stuff!!! BRAVO!!!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-10 02:14:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Miguel, I'm going to Armenia this summer. Maybe I can talk\r\nto somebody.
    But first let's see if Gulbenkian is interested?\r\n\r\n> I could change my identity
    along the way\r\n\r\nWhat do you mean, that people would find that illegal or
    unethical?\r\nI don't think it would be either.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 02:35:41'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Thanks Chris!\r\n\r\nHrant, I find it even insulting, so please make sure
    you end right there. :^(\r\n\r\nAs for Gulbenkian's hypothetical interest, first
    I'll need an outline of the project."
  created: '2006-04-10 04:39:21'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Would you feel better if Toby asked Slimbach first and was turned down?  :-/\r\n(I'm
    assuming that's the issue. Even though the Adobe EULA allows mods.)\r\n\r\nDon't
    get mad - everybody's different, and I don't know\r\ntoo much about you - feel
    free to elaborate your position.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 04:42:41'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> and I don\u2019t know too much about you\r\n\r\nOne more reason to show
    more respect. Have a good day."
  created: '2006-04-10 04:46:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "If I didn't respect you, I wouldn't be trying to understand.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 05:10:09'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> If I didn\u2019t respect you, I wouldn\u2019t be trying to understand.\r\n\r\nHow
    twisted is that?!?! If you did, you would have stopped the subject a couple of
    posts ago, like I asked you to.\r\n\r\nHere's my position: You were quite disrespectful
    and I do not tolerate such thing. With that attitude you've also killed a thread
    that was rather interesting. In addition, if you're trying to turn this into a
    never-ending thread, don't count with me because I'm not going to embark in that.\r\n\r\nDo
    I need to be more clear?"
  created: '2006-04-10 11:17:34'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Miguel, I must admit that I don't understand to what you have taken offence.
    And I say that as someone who has found Hrant offensive on numerous occassions,
    so I'm not insensitive to his manner.
  created: '2006-04-10 19:31:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nonetheless: Miguel, I'm sorry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-10 22:48:06'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "John, it all started here:\r\n\r\n> <em>Or you could get Miguel to customize
    Minion Greek (maybe as simple as changing the serifs/terminals) for you!</em>\r\n\r\nI
    feel that this phrase not only gives a distorted idea of what typeface design
    is all about (particularly for people with no experience in the field), but it
    also insinuates that I would be willing to vandalise a typeface designer's work.
    Hrant might not see a problem with that, but I do. (And if Hrant does not see
    a problem with that, why doesn't he do it himself in the first place, instead
    of assigning others to do it?)\r\n\r\nSo, I did get insulted but was willing to
    ignore it, and expressively asked Hrant to put an end to the subject. However,
    he failed to do so by challenging me with new questions. I find that rather offensive."
  created: '2006-04-10 23:08:19'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> Nonetheless: Miguel, I\u2019m sorry.\r\n\r\nHrant, apologies accepted.
    Please proceed with care."
  created: '2006-04-10 23:09:19'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Okay, I understand now. \r\n\r\nI thought Hrant's comment re. Minion Greek
    was na\xEFve -- I don't think modifying that type would be a good design solution
    for the project as described -- but I think you are taking the suggestion a bit
    beyond its context, and beyond its intent. I have done a couple of customisations
    of Adobe typefaces over the years, although these generally involved extension
    of existing designs rather than revisions. I've always asked for Adobe's permission,
    and they have always given it. Even when such projects do involve revision of
    the existing design, I wouldn't view them as vandalism unless they were poorly
    done. There are times when an existing typeface doesn't seem quite right for a
    project, but may be better than other available designs, and in that context I
    think modifying the design is a legitimate option. Ordinarily, I like to see such
    work offered first to the original designer, but Adobe is not in the business
    of making custom versions of its fonts for people, so they permit other people
    to do so. Is this really presenting 'a distorted idea of what typeface design
    is all about'? Type design is a varied activity and, so long as it is done with
    appropriate permissions, customisation of existing designs is a legitimate undertaking.
    At the end of the day, the typography is more important than the typeface, something
    we may forget as type designers, looking on our own work as an end product. Sometimes
    the typography calls out for something other than an out-of-the-box font, and
    then the question should be how can we best serve the text?"
  created: '2006-04-11 00:57:58'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "Thank you for stopping by, John. It's always a pleasure to read your posts.\r\n\r\nIt's
    all good between me and Hrant now, and I'm quite pleased with the way things turned
    out. We've also agreed to not take the discussion further."
  created: '2006-04-11 08:50:05'
- author:
    name: Toby Macklin
  body: ">There are a few things at play there. One is that, because of the classic
    manuscript hand and the ensuing crushing, centuries-long dominance of Barz, slanted
    text is naturally more culturally authentic for Armenian. \r\n\r\nThanks for the
    explanation that followed this snippet. Very satisfying!\r\n\r\nI'll be in touch
    about Nour when my Armenian text turns up - needs translating yet.\r\n\r\nToby"
  created: '2006-04-11 16:09:35'
- author:
    name: vn
    picture: 117281
  body: "<strong> >What about doing a 200-copy facsimile edition of his \u0540\u0531\u0545\u053F\u0531\u053F\u0531\u0546
    \u054F\u0531\u054C\u0531\u054F\u0535\u054D\u0531\u053F\u0546\u0535\u0550 \u2013
    Armenian Typefaces (1979) for ATypI Lisbon?</strong>\r\n\r\nHi there, I just do
    some research on Armenian type design and I wonder what has happened to this idea?
    Any chance to get a copy? Has this been realized?\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\nViktor"
  created: '2009-07-29 11:55:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "It's still a good idea... But hasn't happened yet.\r\nMaybe in 2012... I've
    said too much.  :-)\r\n\r\nNow, if you want an old Armenian specimen book, let
    me know.\r\nI recently bartered my last available one (that I picked up from\r\nArmenia
    in July) but I can get more, with time.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2009-09-11 01:38:32'
date: '2006-04-06 15:43:01'
node_type: forum
title: armenian text

---
