---
author:
  name: Miss Tiffany
  picture: 110563
body: "I'd love to add [[timelines]] to the [[typowiki|wiki]], but don't want them
  to be incomplete or incorrect. I also realize that something like an history about
  something like posteres can be subjective as you first must answer the question,
  \"What is a Poster?\" But, I thought this would make a fun exercise. A test if you
  will. \r\n\r\nThis timeline was created in 2000 for an essay I was writing about
  that very question mentioned previously. Let's see how this goes.\r\n\r\n- - - -
  - - -\r\n\r\nThe History of the Printed Poster up to 1900.\r\n\r\n\r\nBefore [[Gutenberg]]\r\n\r\n10,000
  B.C. -- The Birth of Visual Communication can be traced to the cave paintings done
  during the Paleolithic age in Lascaux, France\r\n105 A.D. -- Paper was discovered
  in China by Ts\u2019ai Lun \r\n79 A.D. -- The \u201Cadvertisements\u201D over the
  baths at Pompeii. \r\n\r\n15th Century\r\n\r\n1439 -- Johannes Gutenberg\u2019s
  creates the hand-operated press in Mainz, Germany.\r\n1461\t -- Mainz, Germany.
  Leaflets and Posters were printed for both sides during a feud between bishops.
  Supposedly the beginning of political posters and leaflets.\r\n1470 -- First Publisher\u2019s
  catalogue printed as a poster by Peter Sch\xF6ffer in Mainz.\r\n1477 -- First advertisement
  printed by William Caxton. It announces an edition of Pyes of Salisbury.\r\n1482
  -- In Paris for Notre Dame in Rheims a message is posted promising that the faithful
  would all be forgiven their sins if they were to make an offering of money in church
  on the day of Pope Pius\u2019s visit. This poster was a Gothic woodcut with the
  Madonna as the patron of the church, the papal insignia and the coat of arms of
  the town of Rheims\u2013possibly the first specimen of a text supported by illustration.\r\n\r\n16th
  Century\r\n\r\n1505\t -- Etching was invented in Ausburg.\r\n1517\t -- Martin Luther
  posts his ninety-five theses for debate on the door of Castle Church in Wittenberg.
  Subsequently, his friends passed on copies to the printers to be reproduced, by
  December the whole of the continent knew of Luther\u2019s beliefs.\r\n1518 -- The
  first wood engraving poster was printed in Rostock\r\n1518 -- The archibishop of
  Mainz set up the first board of censors to supervise printing.\r\n1520\t -- The
  first playbill from a wood engraving also printed in Rostock\r\n1539 -- \tFrances
  I of France found it necessary to issue an order on putting up posters.\r\n\r\n17th
  Century\r\n\r\n1653 -- A decree is sent out by the goverment in Paris forbidding,
  on pain of death, the printing and exhibition, or bill-posting, of posters without
  an official permit\r\n\r\n18th Century\r\n\r\n1722\t -- In Paris the goverment tries
  yet again to control the posters.\r\n1742 -- A new edict is issued which requires
  two copies of every bill or poster to be delivered up to the Royal Library.\r\n1760
  -- The Industrial Revolution begins in England.\r\n1780 -- James Watt introduces
  the ability of steam power.\r\n1798\t -- Lithography is discovered by Alois Senefelder.
  \r\n\r\n19th Century\r\n\r\n1810\t -- Frederick Koenig invents the powered printing
  machine thus enabling the truest form of mass production for man yet.\r\n1838 --
  Charles Dickens uses the word \u2018poster\u2019 in his book <em>Nicholas Nickleby</em>.
  Shortly thereafter it is accepted in the the English dictionary.\r\n1845 -- Paul
  Gavarni produces the black and white lithographic poster Les Fran\xE7ais. Together
  with Honor\xE9 Daumier, they attempt to produce posters with artistic merit.\r\n1850\t
  -- The power-operated press has been advanced enough to produce up to 10,000 sheets
  per hour\r\n1867 -- Jules Ch\xE9ret  produces the color lithographic poster for
  the play La Biche au Bois starring Sarah Bernhardt\r\n1868\t -- Edouard Manet\u2019s
  black on white lithographic poster for the book Les Chats by Champfleury. \r\n1871\t
  -- Fred Walker prints the first British pictorial poster for Wilkie Collins\u2019
  play and novel Woman in White. This is what is considered to be the first British
  poster with any artistic merit.\r\n1895 -- Alphons Mucha prints his first poster
  for Sardou\u2019s play Gismonda."
comments:
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: These are probably dumb questions, but was paper invented or discovered? Also
    for a poster you wouldn't need movable type, so is there any evidence for 'block-book'
    style 'printed' posters pre movable metal type?
  created: '2006-04-07 19:42:22'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>first specimen of a text supported by illustration</em>\r\nUnless you
    count the graffiti used for advertising in Rome BC, some of which were drawn on
    paper.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-07 19:58:19'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Si -- Good questions. Maybe from they discovered the final invention? Or
    they invented paper from the discoveries found? My research didn't include anything
    in Eastern Europe beyond Paper. So, there is a gap obviously.\r\n\r\nTim -- Where
    can we find more information about that? Sounds like an honest addition."
  created: '2006-04-07 20:24:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FlyPosting.jpg]\r\nThis painting has
    always amazed me. It's a watercolour by John Orlando Parry, \"A London Street
    Scene\", 1835 -- presumably made with the aid of a camera obscura."
  created: '2006-04-07 20:32:14'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Gorgeous!\r\n\r\nI have seen this before. I think it is in the book from
    the exhibit done in 1998 at the V&A on the History of the Poster.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-07 20:36:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "Perhaps in addition to, or instead of, we could create good bibliographies
    on topics. This is my bibliography from the aforementioned essay.\r\n\r\nBibliography\r\n\r\nAbdy,
    Jane. The French Poster.\r\n-- London:  Studio Vista, 1969.\r\n\r\nBarnicoat,
    John. A Concise History of Posters.\r\n-- London: Thames and Hudson, 1972.\r\n\r\nCraig,
    James and Bruce Barton. Thirty Centuries of Graphic Design: an Illustrated Survey.\r\n--
    New York: Watson-Guptill Publications, 1987.\r\n\r\nEisenstein, Elizabeth L. The
    Printing Revolution in Early Modern Europe Canto Edition.\r\n-- Cambridge: The
    Press Syndicate of the University of Cambridge, 1993.\r\n\r\nGallo, Max. Posters
    in History. 2nd Edition.\r\n-- London: Bracken Books, 1989.\r\n\r\nGriffiths,
    Antony. Prints and Printmaking: An introduction to the history and techniques.\r\n--
    3rd Edition. London: British Museum Press, 1996.\r\n\r\nHeller, Stephen. Introduction.
    Graphis Posters 87. Edited by B. Martin Pederson.\r\n-- New York: Graphis U.S.
    Inc., 1987.\r\n\r\nHenderson, Sally and Robert Landau. Billboard Art.\r\n-- London:
    Angus & Robertson, 1981.\r\n\r\nHillier, Bevis. Posters.\r\n-- London: George
    Weidenfeld and Nicolson Limited, 1969.\r\n\r\nHolme, Brian. Advertising: Reflections
    of a Century.\r\n-- London: William Heinemann Ltd., 1982\r\n\r\nHutchison, Harold
    F. The Poster: An Illustrated History from 1860.\r\n-- London: Studio Vista Limited,
    1968.\r\n\r\nKing, Julia. The Flowering of the Art Nouveau Graphics.\r\n-- London:
    Trefoil, 1990.\r\n\r\nLaver, James. Intro. Henry Davray. Preface. XIXth Century
    French Posters\r\n-- London: Nicholson and Watson in association with Ernest Brown
    and Phillips, Ltd., 1944.\r\n\r\nMargolin, Victor, et al. The Promise and the
    Product: 200 Years of American Advertising Posters.\r\n-- New York: MacMillan
    Publishing Co., 1979.\r\n\r\nMason, Stanley. \u201CA.M. Cassandre. A Poster Genius
    in Retrospect.\u201D Graphis 218.\r\n-- Zurich: Graphis Press Corp., 1982.\r\n\r\nMeggs,
    Philip. A History of Graphic Design. 3rd Edition.\r\n-- New York: John Wiley &
    Sons, Inc., 1998.\r\n\r\nM\xFCller-Brockmann, Josef and Shizuko M\xFCller-Brockmann.
    \ History of the Poster. \r\n-- Zurich: ABC Druckerei + Verlags AG Zurich, 1971.\r\n\r\n\u2013
    \u2013 \u2013. A History of Visual Communication.\r\n-- New York: Hastings House,
    1971.\r\n\r\nOosten-Wittamer, Yolande. Introduction. La Belle Epoque: Belgian
    Watercolors and Drawings.\r\n-- Washington, U.S.A.: Trustees of the International
    Exhibitions Foundation, 1970.\r\n\r\nPreston, Gillian. Advertising. Past-into-Present
    Series.\r\n-- London: B.T. Batsford Ltd., 1971.\r\n\r\nRaffe W.G.  Poster Design.\r\n--
    London: Chapman and Hall Ltd., 1929.\r\n\r\nRickards, Maurice.  The Public Notice:
    An Illustrated History. \r\n-- Newton Abbot, Devon: David & Charles Ltd., 1973.\r\n\r\n\u2013
    \u2013 \u2013. Collecting Printed Ephemera.\r\n-- Oxford: Phaidon and Christie\u2019s
    Ltd., 1988.\r\n\r\n\u2013 \u2013 \u2013. The Rise and Fall of the Poster.\r\n--
    London: Newton Abbott, 1971.\r\n\r\n\u2013 \u2013 \u2013. Posters of Protest and
    Revolution.\r\n-- London: Adam & Dart, 1970.\r\n\r\nRoger-Marx, Claude. Graphic
    Art of the 19th Century.\r\n-- London: Thames and Hudson, 1962.\r\n\r\nSampson,
    Henry.  A History of Advertising from the Earliest Times.\r\n-- London: Chatto
    and Windus, 1875.\r\n\r\nSchuwer, Phillipe. History of Advertising. Discovery
    of Science.\r\n-- London: Leisure Arts, 1966.\r\n\r\nSteinberg, S.H. Five Hundred
    Years of Printing. New Edition.\r\n-- London: Oak Knoll Press and The British
    Library,1996.\r\n\r\nStermer, Dugald. The Art of Revolution.\r\n-- <em>Lost information.
    Will go replace shortly.</em>\r\n\r\nTimmer, Margaret, ed. The Power of the Poster.\t\r\n--
    London: V&A Publications, 1998.\r\n\r\nTurner, E.S. The Shocking History of Advertising.\r\n--
    Middlesex, England: Penguin Books Ltd., 1952.\r\n\r\nTwyman, Michael. Printing
    1770-1970: an illustrated history of its development and uses in England.\r\n--
    London: Eyre & Spottiswoode Ltd., 1970.\r\n\r\n\u2013 \u2013 \u2013. \u201CThe
    Letterpress Poster in the 19th Century.\u201D Bulletin of the Printing Historical
    Society.\r\n-- Summer 1998.\r\n\r\n\u2013 \u2013 \u2013. The British Library Guide
    To Printing: History and Techniques.\r\n-- London: British Library, 1998.\r\n\r\nWeill,
    Alain. Lithography: 200 Years of art, history, and technique. \r\n-- ed. Domenico
    Porziio. New York:  Harry N. Abrams, Incorporated, 1983.\r\n\r\nThe Compact Oxford
    Dictionary, 2nd ed.\r\n-- Oxford: Oxford University Press, 1989.\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "A wonderful book that adds quite a bit to the history of 'posters' is Public
      Lettering: Script, Power, and Culture by Amando Petrucci, Univ. of Chicago Press,
      1993. Petrucci uses the city of Rome as a case in point for the history of publically
      displayed script. The primary period discussed is late medievael through the
      mid-20th century, but with frequent reference to ancient practice. Chapter 7\u2014Ephemeral
      Monumental and Paper Monumental\u2014is particularly pertinent."
    created: '2006-04-08 23:40:17'
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "I just remembered another very good book. \r\nSherraden, Jim, Elek, Horvath,
      and Paul Kingsbury. <em>Hatch Show Print, Nashville, Tenn. : the history of
      the great American poster shop. </em> San Francisco : Chronicle Books, c2001.
      Details the history of Nashville's Hatch Letterpress shop that has been producing
      posters since 1879. Not a lot of high style here but tons of hand cut wood and
      lino lettering and both wood and metal type."
    created: '2006-04-09 23:30:07'
  created: '2006-04-07 20:45:48'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Tim -- One thing to consider in regards to the grafitti. How does one define
    'poster'? If by poster it has to be posted, or on a substrate of some sort before
    it is posted, does the grafitti count?
  created: '2006-04-07 20:56:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think hand drawn posters qualify. Otherwise all of Toulouse-Lautrec's posters
    would not count.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-07 22:35:29'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Toulouse-Lautrec's qualify because of multiple production as well.
  created: '2006-04-07 22:59:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "True, those litho stones are a bear though :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-07 23:24:27'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I would be willing to bet that there was grafiti in ancient Greeceand Rome--knowing
    how argumentative we Greeks can be, I'll bet there were political posters too.\r\n\"Vote
    for Nick Papas, for Uzo and Polytonic in each glass!\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-07 23:27:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: But by "poster" you mean a piece of paper that was posted, right? I think
    that is one thing that has to be in place before it can be counted as a "poster".
  created: '2006-04-07 23:35:11'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "i borrowed a book from my school's library earlier this year called \"The
    Modern American Poster\" (released by MoMA in 1983), but i think it only covered
    the 20th century (and obviously just American works), so maybe that's not what
    you're looking for. nice book though.\r\n\r\n\r\nThe Modern American Poster: From
    the Graphic Design Collection of The Museum of Modern Art\r\nJ. Stewart Johnson\r\nPaperback
    (1983)\r\n0-87070-452-2"
  created: '2006-04-07 23:53:18'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Finding information on the web isn't easy (and should be taken with a pinch
    of salt), I can find two urls that I can be fairly confident are accurate <a href=\"http://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:qN7hfvOz3_MJ:www.findarticles.com/p/articles/mi_m1510/is_1987_Spring/ai_4806053+roman+advertising+BC&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=6&client=safari\">here</a>
    and <a href=\"http://www.classicsunveiled.com/romel/html/amphiglad.html\">here</a>.
    Your point about at what time does a grafitto become a poster is a tricky one,
    much of the advertising in Rome was hand drawn in chalk directly onto walls, slaves
    might be sent out to write up a message on various prominent walls, rubbing out
    rival messages, to draw attention to the message they included borders and sometimes
    an image, the advertisements were for political campaigns (including games, circuses
    and bread), products (olives, olive oil, garum etc), more personal services (to
    use a euphemism) and so on <em>plus \xE7a change</em>; also wooden boards would
    be used for more permanence, however, for quality control, some campaigns were
    copied onto paper (papyrus, I imagine vellum or parchment would be prohibitively
    expensive) by a scriptorium and then posted. I suppose all of these would in some
    way be  posters, in that they serve the same purpose and have the longevity as
    a more modern poster, I suggest that the medium is less important than the message
    on the wall in the definition of poster, especially to the patron.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-08 10:47:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Good analysis TimD! I think you are right.\r\n\r\nOn a lighter note--Maybe
    those \"more personal services\" you spoke of is what started the movie rating
    system we now use. Three Roman Numeral Xs might have begun as the asking price
    for such a personal service :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-08 14:52:35'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>1505 \u2014 Etching was invented in Ausburg</em>\r\n\r\nTiffany --
    is that <em>Ausburg</em> or <em>Augsburg</em>?\r\nI am less familiar with Ausburg
    but have visited Augsburg several times."
  created: '2006-04-08 18:58:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I recently got that book Charles. I like the inscriptionary history aspect.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-09 02:11:56'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "http://www.jan-toorop.com/browse/year/1894/?&limit=1&page=1\r\n\r\nAccording
    to Creative Type, this poster from 1894 made such an impact that Art Nouveau is
    sometimes referred to as Salad Oil Style in Holland.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-09 12:00:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "That is an interesting site Tim. I had to bookmark your link.\r\n\r\nThanks!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: v-six
      picture: 111502
    body: "Just my random inconsequential question:\r\nMeggs (Third Edition) shows
      Senefelder inventing lithography in 1796 instead of 1798. Anyone know which
      is the correct date? Perhaps the idea came to him in '96 and he made it happen
      two years later? Sorry, I won't  claim to be a history buff, I should probably
      know this stuff!"
    children:
    - author:
        name: Charles Leonard
        picture: 111392
      body: I quickly checked a few sources and both dates are given. What everyone
        agrees on is that Senefelder did not publish his results until 1818 after
        he had obtained protection for ownership of the process.
      created: '2006-04-09 18:15:19'
    created: '2006-04-09 17:05:29'
  created: '2006-04-09 14:33:58'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "Another thought about the history of posters. Both papermaking and printing
    were invented in China. Printing of decrees, laws, etc. permitted wide distribution
    across China\u2019s vast administrative reaches, and with less possibility for
    scribal error.\r\nRubbings were the first form of printing on paper. Since c.
    175 CE, important decrees, texts, scriptures, poems, and pictures were inscribed
    on wood, bronze, and stone. Then copies, made by rubbings and ink transfer, were
    distributed on paper.  Some of these transfers were certainly meant for posting
    in public."
  created: '2006-04-09 19:00:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "One of the principal subject matters of Ukiyo-e Japanese woodblock prints
    was actors and scenes from Kabuki theatre. \r\n\r\nWere those prints ever posted
    in public?"
  children:
  - author:
      name: v-six
      picture: 111502
    body: "I hope someone has a concrete answer for that\u2014I'm curious myself.
      With the amount of work people like Hokusai were producing, I'd have to imagine
      some of it was posted in public. I'm going to add a tangent to your question\u2014hopefully
      someone has an answer to both!\r\n\r\nMuch of the woodblock prints were used
      for book illustration. How many people would have actually had access to these
      books? It seems like a waste if all of this great work was unknown to the public."
    created: '2006-04-09 22:53:54'
  created: '2006-04-09 20:31:53'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Chris, if you liked that check out these\r\nhttp://www.poster.com.pl/\r\n\r\nhttp://www.nationaltheatre.org.uk/?lid=7119\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-10 11:23:21'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Great links Tim!  THANKS!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-10 12:51:07'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Ukiyo-e Japanese woodblock prints</em>\r\n\r\nFive or six years ago I
    saw a Japanese film, a drama, about an artist who made such prints (Hokusai had
    a bit part). It was brilliant, one of the best films about art, but I can't remember
    the name. It was set towards the end of the Edo era, c. 1830s, I believe.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    it recreated the theatre district, and showed the print shops as stores which
    had their wares hung outside to attract passers-by."
  created: '2006-04-10 15:18:43'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: "@ Norbert: That is probably a typo. How embarassing. \r\n\r\n@ Charles: The
    \"Public Lettering\" book is an excellent addition. Same with the \"Hatch Show\".\r\n\r\n\r\n@
    All: So you think that as long as it was on another substrate, not directly on
    the wall, it should be considered a poster? I think I agree with that. "
  created: '2006-04-10 16:50:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Well, there's also enamelled tin signs.\r\nAnd advertising billboards, which
    may be either painted or printed.\r\nAnd back-lit adverts.\r\n\r\nBTW, check out
    Michele Bogart's \"Artists, Advertising, and the Borders of Art\"."
  created: '2006-04-10 18:02:08'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I think your definition is, on the whole, good enough, (grafitti timeline
    will have to wait Pre-history to Banksy?). I am interested to know why you stopped
    at Mucha, although I would class his work as the acme of the 19th century. I would
    also be interested to know when the poster became a cheap artwork for the public,
    did it start with people stealing posters from the walls?\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-10 18:16:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Tim, fin-de-siecle printers did multiple editions of eg Mucha posters, at
    smaller sizes.\r\n\r\nBut that fit into the tradition of fine art prints (often
    engravings of paintings) that were kept in \"portfolios\", not books.\r\n\r\nIt
    would have been hard to steal posters if they were glued to walls.\r\n\r\nBogart's
    book is good on the poster-or-art issue c.1900.\r\n\r\nBTW,\r\n\r\nCalendars were
    a related art form.\r\nMaxfield Parrish's paintings (1920s) were beautifully printed
    in special colors, distributed via calendars, but subsequently framed and mounted
    in homes. These same images had started life in adverts and posters (with product
    ID), but he kept the copyright. "
  created: '2006-04-10 18:36:22'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Nick,\r\nGood information thanks,\r\n<em>It would have been hard to steal
    posters if they were glued to walls.</em>\r\nBut not impossible, I treasured the
    Ramones one that I took off a wall very slowly in the rain one night (yes, it
    did rip in the last 6 inches) :)\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-10 18:42:50'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I wanted to add a couple of books to the list\r\nhttp://www.vandashop.com/product.php?xProd=135&navlock=1\r\n\r\nhttp://www.vandashop.com/product.php?xProd=377&xSec=30&navlock=1\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-11 16:51:23'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: '@ Tim: Nice additions. The first is already in the list--which I can''t edit
    for some reason--but that second isn''t and I love his work!'
  created: '2006-04-11 17:05:50'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Bit of a bump\r\nWith the added bonus of a gallery of M\xFCller-Brockman\r\nhttp://www.imagenow.ie/gallery/flash.htm\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-20 14:34:07'
date: '2006-04-07 19:24:24'
title: 'An History of the Poster: A Timeline'

---
