---
author:
  name: eliason
  picture: 109936
body: "Hi all\r\n\r\nI am presently putting together a proposal for a museum exhibition
  on the intersections of type design and national identity. The era I have in mind
  spans from the end of the nineteenth century to the middle of the twentieth (essentially
  the era dominated by production for Monotype/Linotype machines). \r\n\r\nI am looking
  for two kinds of ideas: suggestions of appropriate \"case studies\" that fit the
  theme; and suggestions of what types of \"objects\" might make for an engaging exhibition
  of historical type design.\r\n<!--break-->\r\nFor the case studies, I already have
  some ideas in mind, such as\r\n- Norwegian identity and Gerhard Munthe's revival
  of medieval lettering\r\n- Koch and the modern German blackletter\r\n- Gill's Sans
  as against nationalism and internationalism\r\n- modernization and standardization
  efforts in Weimar Germany (with an eye to international markets)\r\n- the changing
  Nazi policy on blackletter\r\n- Frutiger and Swiss design education\r\n- Zapf's
  Palatino and the meaning of Italian Renaissance at midcentury\r\n- Goudy, Dwiggins,
  and the development of an American type design\r\n\r\nFor the objects, any suggestions
  are welcome. I am sure I could display books that show some of the types at issue.
  I also think it'd be nice to show a linotype slug or the like, if I can get my hands
  on one. I'll particularly be looking into local (Twin Cities, MN) special-collections
  libraries for exhibitable material. \r\n\r\nI appreciate all input you can offer
  on both of these questions. Thanks in advance.\r\n\r\nCraig."
comments:
- author:
    name: kegler
    picture: 110368
  body: "We might lend a Goudy pattern or two if needed:\r\nhttp://www.p22.com/lanston/products/californian.html\r\nor
    some monotype matrices. Contact me offlist if you wish.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 19:34:25'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Good choices. Most Czech type of the period should work well with this. The
    late nineteenth-century British revival of Caslon, and the great success of Monotype
    Baskerville, could be thought of as encouraged by a mild patriotism. Even Times
    Roman was designed, Morison claimed, to be "English".
  created: '2006-04-13 20:09:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You have a lot of great stuff covered already. What I would definitely add\r\nhowever
    is the ongoing saga of the fate of Gaelic, a politically-charged\r\ntypographic
    roller-coaster ride. Let me know if you need leads on that.\r\n\r\nAnd/but I would
    ask:\r\nIs this limited to Latin type?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 20:43:50'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'I think that Bauhaus and Swiss design were in a way intended to be anti-nationalist,
    and to a certain extent they succeeded. The championing of sans for text--which
    was neither German nor the custom elsewhere--was an important part of this. And
    so was the effort at being ''neutral''. If you compare Futura and Goudy Sans you
    have a very striking difference in direction. So I think the anti-nationalism
    thing would be an interesting contrary note in the exhibition. '
  children:
  - author:
      name: eliason
      picture: 109936
    body: "> So I think the anti-nationalism thing would be an interesting contrary
      note in the exhibition.\r\n\r\nThanks, that's certainly one I intend to include.
      (In my mind I had already placed it under the \"Weimar modernization\" topic,
      but your post rightly shows that I should be more explicit in my proposal.)"
    created: '2006-04-13 21:16:05'
  created: '2006-04-13 21:06:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> the anti-nationalism thing would be an interesting contrary note\r\n\r\nVery
    good idea - it would make for a great \"side-bar\" I think.\r\n(Although ironically
    such movements do tend to become their own \"nation\"s!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 21:08:41'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Thanks for the encouragement and the great tips already. Keep them coming!\r\n\r\nOn
    Morison: do you have a citation for the \"English\" claim about TR? I'd be very
    interested to work that in.\r\n\r\nOn Gaelic: a superbly relevant idea that hadn't
    occurred to me. I would love leads on it. (I just browsed <a href=\"http://www.spd.dcu.ie/library/LIBeng/Special%20Collections/spcoll4cent.htm\">here</a>
    which hinted at the roller-coaster ride.) \r\n\r\nOn non-Latin type: I am open
    to ideas beyond Latin type. That said, the research for the exhibition will be
    done by me and my graduate students, so language may prove an obstacle for some
    areas; moreover, to some extent the exhibition must be built around the objects
    that are accessible and available for display, which may prove limiting too. On
    the other other hand, the borders between Latin and other letterforms might be
    the very most important spots to investigate the role of nationalism. And I would
    certainly expect that with Russian nationalism and Communist internationalism
    at play, issues in Cyrillic type design of the period might be fascinating.\r\n\r\nThanks
    again for your stimulating input!"
  created: '2006-04-13 21:11:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Gaelic: I'll put you in touch with Matha Standun - he's the expert.\r\n\r\nNon-Latin:
    I'll have to think how it applies to your specific\r\ntime period... But perhaps
    the best case is the application of\r\nLinotype news setting to Arabic (and to
    a lesser extent, Greek).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 21:18:05'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I had already placed it under the \u201CWeimar modernization\u201D\r\n\r\nRight,
    the 'international style' is in fact German-reading in origin, though it was intended
    to be international. So some extent that 'neutral' feel is still more Germanic
    than anything else, and perhaps also Dutch. But it did conquer the world, in the
    form of Helvetica, so it became international. As Hrant points out, there are
    interesting ironies and contradictions.\r\n\r\nGreat idea for an exhibition! "
  created: '2006-04-13 21:42:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Isn't neutral/International more Swiss? Or at least is it not\r\ngenerally
    seen as such? Maybe because after WWII people\r\ncan't get themselves to think
    of Germans as such...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 23:22:37'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "just an idea: an interesting topic could be the use of the occupiers or  the
    suppresseds type in colonies (india, etc). maybe even the use of blackletter in
    german colonies.\r\n\r\nwilliam: sure, some of the origins of the swiss style
    came from germany, because german \"refugees\" came to switzerland and influenced
    the local graphic design. but still, isnt neutral a word normaly linked more with
    switzerland than germany?\r\n\r\non the \"layer\" of personal opinion: swiss people
    are way more neutral than german people. often, when swiss people stay \"nice\",
    german people can get very direct (which is sometimes hard to interpret right,
    as a swiss guy)."
  created: '2006-04-13 23:33:12'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "With the imposition of Latin onto Vietnam by the French\r\nbeing a superb
    example of that. But the timeframe is off.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-13 23:38:56'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: yes, but the colonial history could be seen as one piece (with different facettes!),
    thus allowing to implement the viatnamese history, too.
  created: '2006-04-13 23:55:39'
- author:
    name: eliason
    picture: 109936
  body: "Intriguing possibility, though would that be too much about the <em>use</em>
    of type rather than the <em>design</em> of it?\r\n\r\nI wonder, were the types
    used in European colonies all imported, or was there any type design/production
    happening within the colonized territories?"
  created: '2006-04-13 23:58:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>was there any type design/production happening within the colonized territories?</em>\r\n\r\nIn
    Canada, not until 1967.\r\nBut it has been noted that JEH Macdonald, had there
    been a Canadian type foundry in his day, would have produced something along the
    lines of his contemporaries Cooper or Goudy, based on his lettering.\r\n\r\nInterestingly,
    the \"foundational\" style of the US is Caslon, a British face, as that was the
    foremost face in use in the colonies in 1776 -- whereas the comparable style of
    Canada, in which many early documents of nationhood were set, c. 1867, was Scotch
    Modern, founded in the US as likely as the UK."
  created: '2006-04-14 00:10:11'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Oh, my: Dutch, German, Swiss. To an outsider the type trend--a cool, neutral
    and very disciplined, polished style--don''t seem so different. I''m sure there
    are interesting things to be said about how the aspiration to be international
    changes with the times and locations of the movement, but I don''t know much about
    that--an exhibition would help! --Will you have a catalogue?'
  children:
  - author:
      name: eliason
      picture: 109936
    body: "> \u2014Will you have a catalogue?\r\n\r\nI would like to, and your statement
      of interest may help me make a case for one in the budget. I also wondered if
      the scholarship generated for the exhibition could form a special issue of a
      type-related journal - or perhaps both (a special issue that served as a catalogue).
      All ideas and leads welcome..."
    created: '2006-04-14 00:50:16'
  created: '2006-04-14 00:38:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> would that be too much about the use of type rather than the design of
    it?\r\n\r\nWell, in the case of Vietnamese it would be something\r\nthat engulfs
    both: the \"design\" of a <cite>writing system!</cite>\r\n\r\nBTW, not just in
    colonies, but even within Europe there was a fair amount of inter-country \"borrowing\",
    like how the British started their printing with type imported from the Netherlands*,
    or how for the longest time Baskerville's type was used most of all in... France!
    And they still love it there.\r\n\r\n* The reason the Eth and Thorn ended up being
    dropped from the English alphabet; the English didn't want to spend the time/money
    to [learn to] make sorts for them, to add to the imported fonts.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-14 00:47:34'
- author:
    name: Charles Leonard
    picture: 111392
  body: "I think your interest in Weimar and its commercial appropriation of internationalism
    is excellent. I dealt with both in my thesis. <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/18165\u201D>Paul
    Renner and Futura: The Effects of Culture, Technology, and Social Continuity On
    the Design of Type for Printing </a>\r\nAs you may well be aware, the series Weimar
    and Now of the University of California press is explicitly directed at taking
    the historical lessons be learned from the Weimar republic and bringing them forward
    to illuminate the events of our own era. One or the more typographic significant
    events of that period was the development of Futura. In his 1922 book <em> Typografie
    als Kunst, </em>Paul Renner wrote the words shown in the attached samples as the
    concluding sentence of the first paragraph of the chapter of the history of European
    letterforms.\r\nThe words must have been of utmost significance to Renner because
    they also appeared in a test proof from 1927, are paraphrased in <em> Mechanisierte
    Grafik,</em> and are in quoted in full in a brief memoir\u2014\"Vom Georg-M\xFCller-Buch
    bis zur Futura und Meisterschule: Erinnerungen Paul Renners aus dem Jahrzent von
    1918 bis 1927\u201D. <em>Imprimatur: ein Jahrbuch f\xFCr B\xFCcherfreunde,</em>
    9, 1939/1940\u2014where Renner quotes the entire passage and states the quote
    was in his mind as he began the design of Futura in 1924.\r\nIt is my personal
    feeling that is the most telling written and typographical statement of Renner\u2019s
    goals for Weimar typography, and an apt inclusion in any exhibition of typography
    in that period.\r\nThe first image is a trial cut of Futura as shown in F.H. Ehmcke\u2019s
    <em>Schrift: irhe Gestaltung und Entwicklung in neuerer Zeit.</em> As reproduced
    in Burke, \u201CThe Authorship of Futura,\u201D\r\n<em>baseline </em> No. 23 1997.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/EhmckeFuturasample.jpg]\r\nThe
    Second is a proof print of Futura Light, 24 point type Bauer\r\ntypefoundry. Dated
    December 1927, as reproduced in Burke, <em>Paul Renner: The Art of\r\nTypography.
    </em>New York: Princeton Architectural Press, 1998.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/1927proofquote.jpg]\r\nThe
    distance between the two speaks volumes about the supression of national identity
    in the search for international commercial success."
  children:
  - author:
      name: eliason
      picture: 109936
    body: "Charles -\r\n\r\nThanks for your input. I do think central Europe is where
      this effort towards modernist internationalism was most acute, and certainly
      Renner & Futura are at the heart of it. \r\n\r\nI've downloaded and begun to
      read your oft-linked thesis. Congratulations on your fine work and thank you
      very much for sharing it with us!\r\n\r\nWilliam - \r\n\r\n> Wasn\u2019t he
      trying from something more universal, and not just for commercial reasons?\r\n\r\nWe
      can see much of the same rhetoric surrounding abstract painting (my first field
      of expertise) of that time and place, too, which is a field with a much more
      slack connection to markets. There is ideology at play here, and not just marketing.
      But I wouldn't want to overstate the independence of those two motivations."
    created: '2006-04-14 16:33:25'
  created: '2006-04-14 00:51:16'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "im not sure if you provide a translation of the text in the picture in your
    pdf - im going to translate it anyway. mind, my english isnt the best.\r\n\r\nRoman
    Capitals are the peak of european type, based on circle, triangle and square,
    the simplest shapes one could think of, altough they are also the most oppositional
    shapes. \r\n\r\nonly in the second picture: Strangely shines the elegant and noble
    simplicity of this type into our time."
  created: '2006-04-14 01:25:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">supression of national identity in the search for international commercial
    success. \r\n\r\nBut was Renner really trying for 'national identity'? Wasn't
    he trying from something more universal, and not just for commercial reasons?\r\n\r\nI
    don't know the answer, just asking. For the Bauhaus I believe they had internationalist
    socialist ideals..."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Charles Leonard
      picture: 111392
    body: "It is my contention that Renner began by trying to make a new German script
      that was more compatible with an international aesthetic. He was trying to accomplish
      what one century earlier Unger had done with his \"neo-classic\" Fraktur, applying
      a Western-European style to fundamentaly German forms. Of course Renner abandoned
      the enlarged minuscule and uncial capitals of fraktur and replaced them with
      Roman capitals and then applied the geometric logic of roman capitals to the
      definition of the lowercase characters. He was indeed trying for an international
      font, but an international style that included forms familiar to German readers
      rather than simply accepting the Western-European roman as the norm.\r\nIt is
      more accurate to think of Renner, named by his clerical father after the Apostle
      Paul and friend to Thomas Mann, as a \"Christian Socialist\" than as an international
      socialist.\r\nThe following is how the quote appeared in 1922 set in Unger Fraktur.
      (Composite image taken from pages of <em>Typografie als Kunst</em> Munich: M\xFCller,
      1922)[img:sites/default/files/old-images/TAKquotepp37_9.jpg]"
    created: '2006-04-14 17:30:04'
  created: '2006-04-14 03:50:09'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Nick: <em>In Canada, not until 1967.</em>\r\n\r\nI think you have to acknowledge
    the contribution of <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/syllabics/James_Evans/Evans_bio.html\">James
    Evans</a> and <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/syllabics/Edmund_Peck/Edmund_Peck.html\">Edmund
    Peck</a>, whose syllabic writing systems are still used by Indian and Inuit across
    northern Canada, and of Father Adrien-Gabriel Morice's D\xE9n\xE9 Syllabics, although
    these fell out of use. Morice's types were cut in Brussels, but to his specification
    and based on the forms he had designed. Evans, of course, not only designed an
    entire orthography, but cut and cast his own type. The Cree and Inuktitut scripts
    are of considerable interest in terms of national identity -- or 'first nations'
    identity -- and are also close to unique in being writing systems that were created
    in typographic form before they were handwritten."
  created: '2006-04-14 20:14:18'
- author:
    name: jazzsammich
    picture: 110792
  body: "Regarding non-latin systems, or the borders between latin and non-latin systems,
    it might be interesting to investigate the boundaries between Serbian and Croatian
    typography, where, if I remember correctly, what is essentially the same language
    grammatically is represented primarily in the Latin alphabet in Croatia but Cyrillic
    in Serbia.  Perhaps that distinction is lesser now than it has been in the past?\r\n\r\nAs
    to where to start with that investigation, I have no idea.\r\n\r\n--Jim K."
  created: '2006-04-15 03:49:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Perhaps that distinction is lesser now than it has been in the past?</em>\r\n\r\nNo,
    the distinction is very much greater.\r\n\r\nDuring the breakup of Yugoslavia,
    script differentiation played a very important role in the ugly process of linguistic
    cleansing that accompanied and supported the very much uglier process of ethnic
    cleansing. The Latin script was taken as a token of Croatian nationalism, along
    with the Catholic religion, contra the Cyrillic script and Orthodoxy of the Serbs.
    The Croats were also keen to exploit any linguistic differentiation they could
    find, and there were efforts to reform Croatian spelling on phonetical lines (as
    there had been during the fascist period) in order to differentiate it from Serbian
    spelling (prior to this, the same Serbo-Croatian text could be displayed in either
    script simply by switching fonts with parallel 8-bit Latin and Cyrillic encoding).
    There was also a proposal to remove all words of Serbian origin from official
    use, and there was a famous example of the nationalist politician who made this
    proposal giving a speech on television which then had to be dubbed for rebroadcast
    to remove all the Serbian word he had used. I remember at the time meeting Croatian
    nationalists in Canada who were insistent that Croatian and Serbian were totally
    different, mutually unintelligible languages. But I have yet to meet a Serb who
    couldn't carry on a conversation with a Croat.\r\n\r\nIn the tighter and bloodier
    context of Bosnia, it was the Bosnian Serb nationalists who saw their Cyrillic
    script as a tangible symbol of their distinct identity. During the war there,
    Bosnian Serb schoolchildren were briefly made to write even their English language
    homework in the Cyrillic script."
  created: '2006-04-15 05:17:29'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "A shprakh iz a dialekt mit an armey un flot\r\n\u05DE\u05D9\u05D8 \u05D0\u05B7\u05DF
    \u05D0\u05B7\u05E8\u05DE\u05F2 \u05D0\u05D5\u05DF \u05E4\u05BF\u05DC\u05D0\u05B8\u05D8
    \u05D0\u05B7 \u05E9\u05E4\u05E8\u05D0\u05B7\u05DA \u05D0\u05D9\u05D6 \u05D0\u05B7
    \u05D3\u05D9\u05D0\u05B7\u05DC\u05E2\u05E7\u05D8\r\nA language is a dialect with
    an army and navy\r\n\r\n- Max Weinreich, Yiddish linguist"
  created: '2006-04-15 05:22:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>writing systems that were created in typographic form before they were
    handwritten</em>\r\n\r\nLots of notan!\r\nA few years ago I was hired to design
    the identity for an exhibition of Inuit art in Italy.\r\nRather than just use
    available fonts, which looked like Futura to me -- very European -- I had a go
    at doing something calligraphic.\r\nThe top two comps were rejected: the Inuit
    members of the organizing committee just hated my chirographic assault.\r\nThe
    bottom is the end result (Palatino: very Italian, although designed by a German),
    and I did the Inuktitut part of the logo as a sans.\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/Inuit.jpg]"
  created: '2006-04-15 06:07:15'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "An interesting example, Nick. The problem I have with both your calligraphic
    version and the final monoline version is the size of the \u14C7 (na). This is
    a full syllable, and should have the same visual presence as the \u1403 (i). You
    have made it the same visual size as the final \u1466 (t) consonant, which is
    a different class of character.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/inuitpigiarniq.gif]\r\n\r\n[Download
    free Inuktitut fonts from Tiro <a href=\"http://www.tiro.com/syllabics/resources/index.html\">here</a>.]\r\n\r\nWhen
    someone's culture is being represented at at exhibition in a foreign country,
    I think that is a bad situation in which to try to innovate. Your calligraphic
    syllabics have some interesting features, but they don't represent the visual
    culture of the Inuktitut script in any way. They would create the wrong impression
    for Italians seeing the logo and not knowing anything else about the Inuktitut
    writing system. So I can see why the Inuit advisors would reject them for that
    purpose. Would they reject them in other circumstances? When he was on one of
    his trips to Iqaluit, Ross drew a few quite flamboyant cursive syllabics to encourage
    people to try thinking about their writing system in new ways. The general reaction
    wasn't negative: people were interested but non-commital.\r\n\r\nGetting back
    to the subject of the thread: a writing system can be an important cultural identifier
    for a group of people, whether they constitute a nation in a political sense or
    not. If they are a minority group within a larger culture, seeking to preserve
    their distinct identity and foster their heritage, they tend to be protective
    and hence conservative about their script. One of the interesting things about
    the Inuktitut script is that it was invented by European missionaries, but has
    been so strongly adopted by the Inuit that they regard it as an important part
    of their cultural identity."
  created: '2006-04-15 07:14:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If they are a minority group within a larger culture, seeking to\r\n> preserve
    their distinct identity and foster their heritage, they\r\n> tend to be protective
    and hence conservative about their script.\r\n\r\nIndeed. Such is the case with
    Armenian, since most Armenians don't live in Armenia. This is one of the points
    I emphasize, that the directions a script should take depends on the needs and
    desires of its users - it is attuned to politics much more than the personal aesthetic
    preferences of the designer.\r\n\r\nBut this does not mean innovation can't occur
    - it just has to be \"internal\", and careful. Sometimes it even needs to be consciously
    unlike the Big Brother's script; so making the Inuit script look like it was made
    by an Italian scribe 500 years ago is not only misleading, but culturally endangering.
    Better to look for inspiration from whale bone carving, or even biology or mathematics.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-15 16:53:55'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: At the same time, though, one has to beware of the restrictiveness of conservatism
    applied to the authentic diversity of the written forms within the culture. As
    remarked in the <a href="http://typophile.com/node/19265">discussion of Scholderer's
    New Hellenic</a>, the layman is typically ignorant about the history and variety
    of his own writing system. But type designers shouldn't be led by the conservatism
    of the ignorant, not least because such conservatism may easily be misplaced.
    It takes less than one generation for readers to get used to a particular or limited
    set of type styles, or to the output of particular typesetting technologies which
    may have significant technical limitations, and then to mistakenly cling to these
    as being 'correct', in the process abandoning huge swathes of the history, evolution
    and variety of their writing system. I remember, Hrant, your comment regarding
    the excellent <em>Album of Armenian Palaeography,</em> which you were pleased
    would provide evidence that forms which modern readers might find peculiar are
    part of the heritage of the script. This is the sort of thing to which I refer.
    Cultural conservatism has a tendency to be limited to a narrow range of cultural
    experience, often cut off from a broader cultural history and sometimes incorporating
    unrecognised external or technological influences that have already crept in.
  created: '2006-04-15 19:59:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> type designers shouldn\u2019t be led by the conservatism of the ignorant\r\n\r\nBut
    neither by their own over-valuation of history.\r\n\r\n> you were pleased would
    provide evidence that forms which modern\r\n> readers might find peculiar are
    part of the heritage of the script.\r\n\r\nBut you forget the key ingredient:
    it was more of a ruse, to get a certain type of person to accept <cite>my own</cite>
    ideas, simply because there was a historical precedent! I'm sure that's the point
    I was making back then. There's a lot of such \"rusing\" needed in design I think*,
    not because we need to be nasty, but because we need to bypass the reader's consciousness
    to some degree - think for example of how we try to make text fonts \"transparent\",
    but not really.\r\n\r\n* Like the Paphos \"j\" - far right here: http://www.themicrofoundry.com/s_latin.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-15 20:32:13'
- author:
    name: matha
    picture: 110410
  body: "John,\r\n\r\nA small comment on your last post (and a big hello - it's been
    a while) in relation to my own province - Gaelic typography. I'm not as much of
    an expert as Hrant is kind enough to suggest (and a big hello to you too Hrant)
    but as you both know, I'm working on it.\r\n\r\nThe presence of your mass of ignorant
    conservatives implies that somewhere there is a smaller population of open-minded,
    enlightened technicians. I would argue that this is not always the case.\r\n\r\nIn
    Ireland, for example, \"enlightened\" typographers (Morison and \xD3 Loclainn,
    for example) only took an interest in Gaelic type after it had already become
    officially (as far as the government was concerned) obselete. For the four centuries
    before that, the shape of Irish letters in print was an instrument of the invader,
    the Church, and various types of nationalists, none of whom had the first clue
    about type design.\r\n\r\nResistance did exist but in parallel manuscript form
    rather than in conflict with the printed letter. \r\n\r\nA second point on the
    \"less than one generation\" timescale. I've recently developed a fascination
    with Mustapha Kemal's alphabet reform in Turkey and am currently working with
    one of my students on a comparison with the Irish typographic reform of the 1960s.
    In both cases it is clear that when the reading public is given no choice (they
    don't generally publish their own reading material), they can adapt practically
    overnight. During the perios of transition (only a few years) Irish schoolbooks
    contained chapters in both scripts, for example. The government published the
    books and the people did what they were told. Resistance wasn't really an option.\r\n\r\nMatha"
  created: '2006-04-15 23:36:20'
- author:
    name: matha
    picture: 110410
  body: "And to Craig,\r\n\r\nSorry for not mentioning you in the above post. Old
    habits die hard and I do like a good debate ;-).\r\n\r\nI would be delighted to
    discuss ways of including Irish Gaelic Type in your exhibition proposal. It would
    be a shame to leave it out of your scope as printing type has always been an extremely
    politically charged issue in Ireland. \r\n\r\nI will take this opportunity to
    also manetion a bit of a scandal. The Irish government (ignorant conservatives
    to a man/woman) have just permitted a \"celebration\" of the 90th anniversary
    of the 1916 rising against British rule in the form of a public auction of historical
    documents from this period. \r\n\r\nhttp://news.bbc.co.uk/1/hi/northern_ireland/4889982.stm\r\n\r\nOnce
    again our print heritage is being shipped out of the country to the foreign universities
    with the biggest budgets while we do our utmost to keep a lock of Napoleon Bonaparte's
    hair safe and sound on our island:\r\n\r\nhttp://archives.tcm.ie/waterfordnews/2005/12/02/story20109.asp\r\n\r\nPrint
    history is perhaps better off left to the people. The experts are often more interested
    in hard currency. In Ireland, at least.\r\n\r\nI obviously still like a good rant.\r\n\r\nM.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-16 00:19:51'
- author:
    name: matha
    picture: 110410
  body: "1916 revisited:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.langerland.com/index.php?option=com_content&task=view&id=78&Itemid=59\r\n\r\nM."
  created: '2006-04-16 00:43:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: John, where were you with the good advice in 1994?
  created: '2006-04-16 01:41:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Matha, that was a riot! :->>\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-16 02:00:04'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>John, where were you with the good advice in 1994?</em>\r\n\r\nUm, designing
    my first not very good typeface and completely ignorant of the existence of Inuktitut
    syllabics :)"
  created: '2006-04-16 23:34:48'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>The Irish government (ignorant conservatives to a man/woman) have just
    permitted a \u201Ccelebration\u201D of the 90th anniversary of the 1916 rising
    against British rule in the form of a public auction of historical documents from
    this period.</em>\r\n\r\nAh well, at least Dublin is still home to one of the
    world's great collections of Islamic calligraphy :)"
  created: '2006-04-16 23:38:33'
- author:
    name: Lee Jay Stoltzfus
  body: "...speaking of type and national identity.\r\n\r\nThe Amish in the United
    States (my relatives) continue to read the same fraktur typeface that appeared
    in 1740 in the first type specimen broadside printed in North America.\r\n\r\nIn
    1740 Christopher Saur, near Philadelphia, printed that first type specimen, using
    fraktur fonts from the Luthersche type foundry in Frankfurt.\r\n\r\nThe Amish
    hymnbook, the \"Ausbund\", is the oldest Protestant hymnbook in continuous use.
    A recent edition was published here in Lancaster County, Pennsylvania, with fratur
    fonts that are very similar to those Cristopher Saur fonts ...similar to Monotype
    Durer which has also been used for Amish printing recently.\r\n\r\nToday, American
    folk art collectors think of folk paintings when they think of the word \"fraktur.\"
    \ A red \"fraktur\" alligator, with manuscript fraktur lettering, recently sold
    for $119,000 at auction.\r\n\r\nMaybe you could borrow that alligator for your
    exhibit.\r\n\r\nLee Jay Stoltzfus\r\nRarebooknews.com"
  created: '2006-04-17 22:39:34'
- author:
    name: Bleisetzer
    picture: 111903
  body: "A very interesting discussion (especially the part about Paul Renner).\r\nSee
    it as a compliment, please.\r\n\r\nGeorg\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de\"
    target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\">Preu\xDFisches Bleisatz-Magazin</a><br />\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.bleisetzer.de/img/ichbineinpreusse.mp3\" target=\"_blank\"class=\"link\"><i>\"Ich
    bin ein Preu\xDFe, kennt Ihr meine Farben?\"</i></a><br />"
  created: '2006-09-19 15:16:20'
date: '2006-04-13 19:25:21'
node_type: forum
title: 'type design & national identity: ideas for an exhibition?'

---
