---
author:
  name: Hyperboreus
body: "Dear typophiles,\r\n\r\nMonotype issued a digital version of the \u2018New
  Hellenic\u2019 Greek type in the early 1990s.\r\nUnfortunately Victor Scholderer\u2019s
  authentic lowercase zeta and uppercase xi were\r\nsubstituted with somewhat blander
  designs.\r\nDoes anyone know what might have been the excuse for this kind of tampering?\r\nIt
  seems to me that the original glyphs would be worth digitizing.\r\n\r\nSincerely,\r\nP.
  L.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Xi_zeta.jpg]"
comments:
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>the excuse for this kind of tampering</em>\r\n\r\nBy the same token,
    one could lament the \"travesty\" of replacing the long \"s\" in the designs of
    Caslon, Garamond, Jenson, etc., with the orthodox, later alphabetic form.\r\n\r\nThe
    evolution of the character could also be compared to that of the Cyrillic De,
    going from triangular to trapezoid.\r\n\r\nAs an \"early learning\" face, there
    is an argument for orthodoxy/simplicity -- just compare to Gill Sans Schoolbook,
    with its single-storey \"a\" and \"g\".\r\n\r\nBut now, there is no reason not
    to provide \"Historical\" alternates -- and I understand that this is a feature
    of OpenType that will soon be supported by Microsoft Word.\r\n\r\nOn a related
    topic, I'm planning to add Greek to Fontesque, which is kind of a challenge, in
    that your typical Greek serif face already has plenty of irregularity -- so character
    forms such as Scholderer's that you show here are quite inspirational in pushing
    things even further."
  created: '2006-04-14 18:29:22'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Unfortunately Victor Scholderer\u2019s authentic lowercase zeta and uppercase
    xi were substituted with somewhat blander designs.</em>\r\n\r\nScholderer's forms
    are eccentric, so I can quite understand why Monotype chose to employ something
    more in keeping with the normative form of the Greek letters (although I think
    the lowercase zeta has a bit too much modulation and the top is very weak, out
    of keeping with the rest of the design). Scholderer's original design also had
    an eccentric uppercase Omega based on an enlarged version of the lowercase form.
    I have little doubt that the more normal/bland replacement forms make the digital
    version more successful in the Greek market. Note also that Monotype are not alone:
    the Greek Font Society also replaced the lowercase zeta and uppercase Omega forms
    in their Neohellenic type, although they kept the zigzag Ksi.\r\n\r\nI would like
    to see Scholderer's more eccentric forms made available, as stylistic alternates,
    in OpenType fonts. One wouldn't necessarily want them as default forms, but they
    would be good to have nonetheless."
  created: '2006-04-14 20:01:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> excuse for this kind of tampering?\r\n\r\nThe \"tampering\" was actually
    done by Scholderer!  It was exactly <cite>inauthentic</cite> in terms of what
    counts more than a designer's whim: the needs of the Greek script and its users.
    Those original forms -especially the UC- are heavily Latinized. Van Krimpen can
    be said to have been the \"best\" at this kind of travesty (although Gill's semitic
    fiascos are certainly notable). Please read my article entitled \"Latinization:
    Prevention and Cure\" in issue #4 of Spatium magazine (now sold out however) or
    the current issue of Hyphen. Also, here's a link for your perusal:\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_rome3.html\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nBTW,
    that Heraclitus quote on your Profile page,\r\nis it the \"war is the father of
    all things\" one?\r\nBecause that one's my favorite (when you sub in\r\nthe more
    accurate \"conflict\" instead of \"war\").\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-14 20:15:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Hrant, while some of Scholderer's forms are eccentric, I certainly wouldn't
    classify them as Latinised, in the way that Van Krimpen's Greeks or Gill's Perpetua
    Greek are. Scholderer was a codicologist, historian of early printing, and curator
    of the incunabula collection of the British Library, with a solid historical knowledge
    of Greek letterforms. Van Krimpen and Gill were complete dilettantes by comparison.
    The New Hellenic type is the most serious and successful modern attempt to create
    a new design in the style of the pre-Aldine Greek types such as the Greek of the
    famous Complutensian Bible. Other, more direct attempts at revivals of the Complutensian
    type have been made (Procter's Otter Greek in the 19th century, and recently <a
    href="http://www.greekfontsociety.org/pages/en_publications2004_SP.html">GFS Complutensian</a>
    by George Matthiopoulos), but these replicate the unusual characteristics of the
    original that are, in a modern context, even more eccentric than Scholderer's
    Ksi, Omega and zeta. None of it is Latinised.
  created: '2006-04-15 02:20:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Especially with regard to the person that counts (the layman reader, who
    has no idea of what's historically valid and what's not) Latinization doesn't
    have to be literal: all it has to do is impose an alien (practically, if not historically,
    speaking) skew on a script, and one that comes from Latin (in letter or spirit).
    In this case the uppercase form is structurally identical to the JvK lowercase
    xi that we both deride; while the lowercase form is essentially a simplification,
    specifically in the spirit of Latin. So to me these <cite>results</cite> (if not
    their lineage) fall under Latinization.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-15 02:59:58'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>In this case the uppercase form is structurally identical to the JvK
    lowercase xi that we both deride</em>\r\n\r\nNot really, the JvK ksi is simply
    the normal lowercase letterform compressed down to the x-height, and hence proportionally
    squarer. The uppercase zigzag form is a different oddity. It is eccentric, but
    I believe it exists in the tradition that Scholderer was reviving. I'll need to
    dig out more of my books before I can confirm that with examples. [I'll mention
    this thread to Gerry Leonidas, in case he can contribute some thoughts on the
    zigzag Ksi.]\r\n\r\n<em>while the lowercase form is essentially a simplification,
    specifically in the spirit of Latin.</em>\r\n\r\nYou can't just look at a thing,
    relate it to some other thing that you think you understand, and pronounce a judgement,
    especially not a judgement about it's spirit. That is a very dodgy analogic process.\r\n\r\nScholderer's
    New Hellenic is a close revival of letterforms that appear in an edition of Macrobius
    printed in 1492, probably by Giovanni Rosso in Venice. Now we might look at it
    as you seem to be, and <em>mistakenly</em> view it in the context of very much
    later Latin types such as 19th and 20th century sans serifs with their simplification
    of form. But that is completely ahistorical. If you look at these Greek types
    of the pre-Aldine model in their original context, beside Italian incunabula Latin
    types, you see the radical difference and their distinctly <em>un</em>Latin character.
    Then you have to look for their origin, and you find it in the formal Greek bookhand
    of the Middle Ages. I have not unpacked all my Greek books yet, but below is the
    best example that I could find in the books I have on hand. [Unfortunately, I
    can't figure out which box contains my copy of Scholderer's own <em>Greek Printing
    Types,</em> which I believe includes a collotype facsimile of the 1492 Macrobius
    type.]\r\n\r\nAt the advent of printing in Greek, the script had evolved, from
    the uncial writing of the late classical period, a formal and a cursive hand.
    In this it was no different from the Latin script or the Hebrew script. These
    were all mature writing systems with strong literary traditions, a professional
    scribal class, and extensive manuscript book publishing. The two script styles
    are understandable in terms of speed, as I have written elsewhere on Typophile
    in discussion of the origins of the roman/italic distinction. The formal book
    hand is written slowly, the letters are upright and have broad proportions. The
    cursive hand is written quickly, the letters are slanted and compressed; the slant
    and the compression are both aspects of the speed. As with Latin and Hebrew, the
    formal hand tended to be reserved for larger scale and prestige volumes; the cursive
    style was used in the manuscript equivalent of pocket books. [Again this is exactly
    the same distinction that exists in Latin books of the same period, and as Aldus
    adopted the cursive, italic style for his popular small format Latin and Italian
    books, so he adopted the Greek cursive style for comparable volumes in that language.
    Many commentators on Aldus' type and books completely overlook the manuscript
    publishing context, and make ludicrous claims about Aldus' invention of the small
    format book and the use of italic types for space-saving efficiency. This is all
    nonsense: he was producing books to an existing popular format and using types
    modelled on the cursive hands employed in those books.]\r\n\r\nAnyway, getting
    back to the Greek formal book hand...\r\n\r\nHere is an earlier (10th century)
    example showing the upright, broadly proportioned letters of this style, which
    pre-Aldine printers adopted and to which Robert Proctor returned not very succesfully
    in the 19th century, and which Scholderer revived with much more success in the
    1920s.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/FormGrekBkHnd.jpg]\r\n\r\n-\r\nThe
    simplification that is found in the early printed versions of this hand, such
    as the Macrobius or Complutensian types, is in the abandonment of the connecting
    strokes. But the broadly proportioned, largely monoline letters can be directly
    traced back to such manuscripts and forward to Scholderer's New Hellenic. This
    is where it comes from: from the heart of Byzantine literary culture of the Middle
    Ages, transplanted to Italy after the fall of Constantinople, and cut into types
    and printed there (with the direct involvement of Greek immigrants, as superbly
    documented in Konstantinos Staikos' excellent <em>Charta of Greek Printing.</em>)\r\n\r\nBy
    the way, the GFS commentary on their Neohellenic fonts confirms the origin of
    the 'bland' Ksi and Omega about which Petri began this discussion: 'The type,
    since to 1930\u2019s, was also well received in Greece, albeit with a different
    design for \u039E and \u03A9.' As I suspected, Monotype changed the form of these
    letters to market the typeface more successfully in Greece."
  created: '2006-04-15 06:38:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Especially with regard to the person that counts (the layman reader,
    who has no idea of what\u2019s historically valid and what\u2019s not) Latinization
    doesn\u2019t have to be literal</em>\r\n\r\nThe layman reader doesn't know whether
    a typeface is simplified (relative to what?), Latinised or within a distinct cultural
    tradition, novel or revival. His opinion about whether he finds something easy
    or difficult to read is important, but in what other regard does that person 'count'?
    Should valid and authentic cultural forms be discarded or avoided because an uninformed
    person might not recognise them as such? That can only lead to homogenisation
    and loss of diversity within a culture.\r\n\r\nReally, I think this is madness.
    What is the point of taking the time to educate ourselves, if we abdicate that
    knowledge when making judgements, preferring to adopt the imagined knowledge level
    of some ignorant everyman? To call Scholderer's New Hellenic type Latinised is
    simply to be ignorant of its origins. To suggest that you are using Latinised
    in some non-literal, presumably metaphorical sense, not only does nothing to counter
    that ignorance, it also weakens the whole notion of Latinisation. Latinisation
    is a very specific and observable phenomenon afflicting a wide range of writing
    systems, alongside a phenomenon of westernisation afflicting cultural diversity
    in general. It need to be accurately described so that it can be effectively countered.
    There are plenty of examples of literal Latinisation of the Greek script to criticise
    without charging the New Hellenic type with some kind of non-literal Latinisation.
    Take the time to understand the thing itself, and don't make hasty analogic judgements."
  created: '2006-04-15 06:56:31'
- author:
    name: Giordano
    picture: 111222
  body: "The two original ones are very beautiful. They should have used them. Personally,
    I'm a bit of an instigator and would have liked to have them available just to
    be different.\r\n\r\nJohn Hudson: Firstly, thank you for your very comprehensive
    explanation of the origins of these glyphs, which I found [i]extremely[/i] interesting.\r\n\r\nSecondly,
    thank you for showing that not all originality in letter design is \"latinisation\".
    Sometimes even users of non-Latin alphabets do something different."
  created: '2006-04-17 02:05:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Certainly, external beauty and novelty for its own sake are more important
    than respecting the people whose script you're working with... :-/  As if one
    Nick Shinn weren't enough. Hey, maybe it's a Canadian thing? You are, after all,
    exceptionally good at being assimilated by a larger culture while pretending the
    opposite (at least collectively - exceptions do exist, and are commendable). Really,
    your license plates should say: \"Canada - The Hockey State\". I'm sorry if that
    hurts your feelings, but as we say in Armenian, \"let's sit crooked but talk straight\".\r\n\r\nBTW,
    I haven't read John's posts yet. If they're like his usual contributions, they
    contain a ratio of about 2:1 of valid points versus contrivances - which is admittedly
    above average. Anyway, I'll catch up for real soon.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 02:29:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>let\u2019s sit crooked but talk...</em>\r\n\r\n... in inflamatory nationalistic
    generalizations?\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nJohn, that's a brilliant piece of writing.
    I love the varied angles of the long joining strokes, especially those horizontals
    that zip right through theta.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 03:37:26'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u2026 in inflamatory nationalistic generalizations?\r\n\r\nExactly. Just
    what you need to snap out\r\nof your materalism-driven auctioning of\r\nyour cultural
    heritage.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 04:27:44'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "First, a clarification on the Canadian thing: basically what I was saying
    is that you'd have to be quite an exceptional Canadian (like maybe a prominent
    Black Bloc member) to be able to instruct people how to successfully maintain
    one's cultural identity.* It's like a Dutchman lecturing a Portuguese or C\xF4te
    d'Azurian about butifarra negra. He'd have trouble simply knowing what that is.\r\n\r\n*
    I mean, if it weren't for the Inuit...\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\n> the JvK ksi is simply
    the normal lowercase\r\n> letterform compressed down to the x-height\r\n\r\nNo.
    The lowercase xi in question (the one in Romulus, obviously - the one in Antigone
    is pretty conventional*) is a full ascending letter.** It looks just like Scholderer's
    capital form, except it's narrower (and has a shorter middle bar). See figure
    27 on page 18 of \"Greek Letters: From Tablets to Pixels\"; or see \"Letters of
    Credit\". Is there a historic precedent for that lowercase form? (Although I will
    shortly explain why that's largely moot anyway.)\r\n\r\n* And also not compressed
    to the x-height.\r\n\r\n** In fact it's higher than the caps!\r\n\r\n> You can\u2019t
    just look at a thing, relate it to some other thing that\r\n> you think you understand,
    and pronounce a judgement, especially not\r\n> a judgement about it\u2019s spirit.
    That is a very dodgy analogic process.\r\n\r\nWhat in blazes are you talking about?
    I see things, I form opinions, and I present them. Of course I could be wrong,
    but that should go without saying. What's dodgy is your definition of latinization.
    As is your persistent valuation of history over reality. You always make that
    mistake - probably because you simply enjoy history too much. John, we're not
    historians, we're designers. It's great that you enjoy history, and that you know
    so much of it, but don't let it cloud your craft. To me, the important, the useful
    definition of something is always in the practical sphere. In the context of historical
    precedent Scholderer's design might be totally, or at least sufficiently, authentic;
    but in the context of the user, of what the user knows, of what the user has seen
    and will continue to see, it is clearly latinization.\r\n\r\nYou can't base good
    design decisions more on history than the reality on the ground. Would you set
    a history of the Holocaust in a blackletter? And if you did, what publisher would
    go for it? The historic fact is that the Nazis disowned blackletter (for whatever
    stupid reason). But that's largely moot. Sure, we can try to rectify things (as
    I do with blackletter) but it's at the fringes of craft - it's not going to please
    any paying client on the planet; and most of all there's no use putting a spin
    on terminology to hide the sad truth.\r\n\r\n> The layman reader doesn\u2019t
    know whether a typeface is simplified\r\n> (relative to what?), Latinised or within
    a distinct cultural\r\n> tradition, novel or revival.\r\n\r\nBut he <cite>feels</cite>
    it, just fine.\r\nThat's fully half of type design right there.\r\n\r\n> What
    is the point of taking the time to educate ourselves\r\n\r\nEducation is great,
    but choose what you educate yourself with\r\nmore carefully I guess. :-/  Maybe
    you allocate too much time\r\nto learning history? But you clearly enjoy it, and
    humans\r\nhave to enjoy their lives. Just don't bet your career on it.\r\n\r\n>
    Should valid and authentic cultural forms be discarded or avoided\r\n> because
    an uninformed person might not recognise them as such?\r\n\r\nDiscard, never.
    But use with caution. Call things what they are, in a useful realm (not insular
    history). Who was it that wrote: \"I would like to see Scholderer\u2019s more
    eccentric forms made available, as stylistic alternates, in OpenType fonts. One
    wouldn\u2019t necessarily want them as default forms, but they would be good to
    have nonetheless.\" With that I agree completely! Especially if there's a caution
    against latinization in the readme.  :-)\r\n\r\nAlso, of course I'm not talking
    about catering to the ignorance of some isolated individuals. I'm talking about
    judiciously taking into account the perceptions of the crushing masses.\r\n\r\n>
    Latinisation is a very specific and observable phenomenon\r\n\r\nYou don't get
    to decide what it means. Your definition is empoverished; in its inability to
    address the really relevant aspects of latinization (like certain types of simplification)
    it is a crippled definition.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 05:06:39'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>To me, the important, the useful definition of something is always in
    the practical sphere. In the context of historical precedent Scholderer\u2019s
    design might be totally, or at least sufficiently, authentic; but in the context
    of the user, of what the user knows, of what the user has seen and will continue
    to see, it is clearly latinization.</em>\r\n\r\nIn the first place, I simply don't
    believe that anyone except you looks at Scholderer's New Hellenic type that way.
    Given the massive amount of actual Latinisation of the Greek script evident all
    over Greece on every street, Scholderer's New Hellenic looks anything but Latinised
    in comparison. I have heard people mistakenly identify it as being based on early
    Attic inscriptional lettering. If anything, it probably looks kind of old fashioned
    to a modern Greek reader. In the second place, you are the only person I have
    ever heard try to impose a metaphorical meaning on the term Latinisation, and
    I'm afraid you don't get to decide what it means either.\r\n\r\nWhat <em>is</em>
    a 'non-literal' meaning of Latinisation? If you mean simplification, or 'certain
    kinds of simplification', then say simplification, because you can't equate Latinisation
    with simplification because Latinisation can, and often does, involve formal complication
    e.g. through the application of serifs or the imposition of a broad-nib translation
    ductus to historically monolinear forms. It seems to me, based on previous discussions,
    that you probably want to form an equivalance of modernism = westernisation =
    simplification = latinisation. Sorry, but I think <em>that</em> is itself a gross
    simplification, and I simply refuse to use the term in that way.\r\n\r\nThis is
    what I mean by Latinisation: the application of characteristics of Latin typographic
    design to other scripts. It is a real problem, and I don't see any benefit to
    muddying and weakening the identification of that problem through invention of
    non-literal meanings.\r\n\r\nYes, I am interested in history, because I am interested
    in trying to discern what is true, rather than relying on perceptions born of
    ignorance and analogy. I have explained why Scholderer's New Hellenic is the way
    it is, and the role of the history of Greek manuscript and early printed forms
    in its development. I don't see any value in supposing a general perception of
    the design as Latinised, when actual Latinisation of the Greek script is so blatant
    and unmistakeable and clearly of a different class from anything in Scholderer's
    design."
  created: '2006-04-17 06:05:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Re. van Krimpen's Greeks. We got confused in there about, talking about the
    lowercase ksi, when I meant the lowercase zeta (following from discussion of the
    the eccentric lowercase letter in New Hellenic). It is the lowercase zeta in <a
    href=\"http://home.planet.nl/~johnf/antigone.jpg\">Antigone</a> that is compressed
    to the x-height. The bowls of the ksi are also compressed vertically, albeit not
    as much, and are out of proportion to the beta and theta.\r\n\r\nI have not looked
    at the Romulus Greek for a long time, but I am quite willing to believe the ksi
    is as awful as you describe."
  created: '2006-04-17 06:22:17'
- author:
    name: Hyperboreus
  body: "There is a brief type review concerning the \u2018New Hellenic\u2019 in the
    sixth volume of \u2018The Fleuron\u2019 (p. 231). The fount receives high praise
    from the critic who in the end of the article maintains: \u201CIt remains to be
    said, however, that our general printing still has need of a greek which shall
    sort agreeably with the romans and italics we are bound to use. We require an
    upright Caslonised fount which, in use as citations or extract matter, shall be
    no more conspicuous in the page than is the italic.\u201D\r\nI suppose one could
    safely interpret \u2018Caslonised\u2019 as \u2018Latinised\u2019...\r\n\r\n*   *
    \  *\r\n\r\nRobert Proctor\u2019s ceremonial \u2018Otter\u2019 (1903) has the
    zigzag uppercase xi as well as the hanging lowercase zeta. Mr Scholderer was reportedly
    an admirer of \u2018Otter\u2019 and the fount must have been an important precursor
    of the \u2018New Hellenic\u2019.\r\n\r\n\r\n*   *   *\r\n\r\nHrant: The Heraclitus
    quote on my profile page can be translated as follows: \u201CThe hidden attunement
    is better than the obvious one.\u201D"
  created: '2006-04-17 11:47:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Scholderer\u2019s New Hellenic looks anything but Latinised in comparison.\r\n\r\nFirst
    of all, I've been talking about a single letter (or two).\r\nThe stuff Monotype
    had the sense to change. But anyway,\r\nI never said the font as a whole was a
    flagship of latinization.\r\n\r\n> I have heard people mistakenly identify it
    as being\r\n> based on early Attic inscriptional lettering.\r\n\r\nWhat kind of
    <cite>people</cite>, exactly?\r\n\r\n> you are the only person I have ever heard
    try to\r\n> impose a metaphorical meaning on the term Latinisation\r\n\r\nMetaphorical?
    It's nothing that fancy. I'm simply talking about things just beyond the literal,
    such as making Hangul \"in-line\" (decomposing the syllables and putting the alphabetic
    component letters in sequential order on the baseline), which is not a glyph-level
    instance of latinization, but certainly a massively significant case of it (file
    it under \"alphabet envy\" :-). A more mainstream example is the increase in x-height
    in Armenian, Georgian, etc. While you can't put your finger on specific shapes
    that have become latinized (unlike something like the imposition of full double
    serifs to Greek, the sort of thing you seem to want to restrict the definition
    of latinization too) the vertical proportions certain have become latinized, in
    fact quite consciously (and this is a sledgehammer blow to readability, so quite
    significant).\r\n\r\n> I am interested in trying to discern what is true\r\n\r\nWell,
    to me the present is truer than the past.\r\n\r\nRomulus Greek: now THAT was a
    flagship, in the imperial navy!  :-/\r\n\r\nBTW, a good example of how historicism
    for its own sake can be used to give false assurance (when it's not being used
    simply to confuse) is something about Win Crouwel in \"Dutch Type\". Concerning
    his famous alphabet, Middendorp quotes him as saying: \"So I began researching
    the past, looking for alternative signs with which I could replace the conventional
    forms. One could have made them up, but I wanted them to have some kind of footing
    in the history of type.\"* Why is it false assurance? Because the result is <cite>still</cite>
    illegible!  :-/\r\n\r\n* Although in the next paragraph he's quoted as saying
    about his alphabet: \"I think I have always inclined not to bother too much about
    things that have been developed through tradition\". WhatEVER.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 18:23:20'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>able to instruct people how to successfully maintain one\u2019s cultural
    identity.</em>\r\n\r\nYour agenda, not mine. Get rid of that chip on your shoulder,
    stop carrying around that enormous cross on your back. Create a new identity,
    there's too much \"biology/culture as destiny\" in the old one. And aren't you
    moving in that direction with Nour/Patria anyway -- morphing the old into the
    new, blending cultures, giving typographers the tools they need to conserve or
    abuse \"authenticity\" as they see fit? \r\n\r\nThe real danger for non-Latin
    scripts is that they lose their alphabetic diversity in the Linotype (that was
    then) Microsoft (this is now) scheme of things, restricting the local typographer's
    means of expression. The issue of whether a particular alphabetic form is authentic
    is absurd, like arguing whose blood lines are purer. More to the point, does it
    read smoothly in text?"
  created: '2006-04-17 18:41:04'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Easy to say when you're a citizen of the dominant majority (and\r\nthe one
    that's bombing things left and right). Covert chauvinism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 18:46:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Petri, that \"Caslonize\" bit (especially the \"than an italic\" part,\r\nconsidering
    Morison's thoughts on italics) is just too much!  :-)\r\nIt's going in my Latinization
    file forthwith!\r\n\r\nBTW, Morison was a grade-A script chauvinist. Usually\r\nhe
    hid it OK, but for example in his intro to Schonfield's\r\nbook he really let'errrip!\r\n\r\nThe
    Heraclitus quote is not only superb, but it's highly\r\nfitting to this discussion
    (as well as my penchant for\r\npointing out that -in a <cite>text</cite> face,
    NICK- true harmony\r\nisn't skin deep. Question: can \"harmony\" be substituted\r\nfor
    \"attunement\"? For one thing I do read something like\r\n\"armonie\" in the Greek.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 18:58:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Easy to say when you\u2019re a citizen of the dominant majority (and
    the one that\u2019s bombing things left and right).</em>\r\n\r\nIt's your country
    that's doing the bombing, not mine.\r\nBut reasonable people hold that against
    every US citizen.\r\n\r\n<em>\u201CThe hidden attunement is better than the obvious
    one.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps, but I get the impression from this thread that
    the obvious functionality of Scholderer's novel glyphs -- i.e. how they combine
    with the rest of the alphabet -- is of no relevance at all, compared with the
    opportunity to argue over cultural pedigree, and your need to impress with what
    a champion of the oppressed you are.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 20:06:20'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What kind of people, exactly?</em>\r\n\r\nPeople who know a little bit
    about the history of the Greek script, and who have seen the simplicity of the
    Attic inscriptional letters, but are unfamiliar with the formal Byzantine hand
    or its early typographic children. So the inscriptions are their only point of
    reference for monoline Greek letters. They see the Scholderer uppercase, and relate
    it to the nearest thing they are familiar with. See, for instance <a href=\"http://groups.msn.com/FontLab/general.msnw?action=get_message&mview=0&ID_Message=1940&LastModified=4675417912948186861\">here</a>."
  created: '2006-04-17 21:23:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Perhaps, but I get the impression from this thread that the obvious functionality
    of Scholderer\u2019s novel glyphs</em>\r\n\r\nThey are not novel, only eccentric
    in the context of typical Greek letterforms. As Petri notes, Proctor's Otter type
    has the zigzag Ksi, and my suspicion is that this form shows up in the early types
    by which both Proctor and Scholderer were inspired. But I won't be able to confirm
    that until I get the rest of my books unpacked."
  created: '2006-04-17 21:30:46'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "John: Novel, eccentric in context, whatever, I'm talking about the two glyphs
    that are the subject of this thread.\r\n\r\nI haven't seen a text setting with
    these problem characters (which would be useful), but I suspect that the zeta
    would work fine, while the Xi would be nasty, with its extreme angularity, monoline
    stems, and many sharp joints. That's just bad type design, especially in a face
    that has a light, open quality in general.\r\n\r\nI'd guess that Sholderer, despite
    his knowledge of Greek, was uncomfortable with Xi as three disconnected horizontal
    bars just levitating, which is why he sought a precedent for a more grounded form.
    Is that a Latinization instinct, to want to ground and regularize shapes? Or is
    it just moderization? Or is it just him? At any rate, as Gerry Leonidas said in
    the MSN thread, we should take the work at face value, not \"authenticity value\",
    if the designer is making a serious, considered attempt to create a new face. "
  created: '2006-04-17 22:05:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick, I don't vote. If I'm not mistaken, you do, and that\r\nmakes you part
    of the problem (no matter who you vote for).\r\n\r\n> the obvious functionality
    of Scholderer\u2019s novel glyphs\r\n\r\nAlways creating fake waves in your kiddie
    pool...\r\n\r\n> People who know a little bit about the history of the Greek script\r\n\r\nJust
    as I thought.\r\nErgo: not the people we mostly need to worry about (as designers).\r\n\r\n>
    They are not novel\r\n\r\nYou see what I mean? If Nick, a typeface designer AND
    somebody\r\ndirectly exposed to your arguments, doesn't grasp that these\r\nforms
    are in fact historic, what hope is there really?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-17 23:27:24'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, I don\u2019t vote.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're a white American male nonetheless,
    living the good life in the golden state. Man, that must eat you up. \r\n\r\n<em>Nick,
    a typeface designer AND somebody directly exposed to your arguments, doesn\u2019t
    grasp that these forms are in fact historic, what hope is there really? </em>\r\n\r\nPretending
    to misunderstand my use of the word 'novel' isn't going to fool anybody. "
  created: '2006-04-18 00:00:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I did some digging in the boxes, and although I have not located my copy
    of Scholderer's <em>Greek Printing Types</em> I did find my copy of Robert Proctor's
    <em>The Printing of Greek in the 15th Century,</em> the study that inspired both
    Proctor's own Otter type and Scholderer's New Hellenic. The zigzag uppercase \u039E
    is hard to trace because it is a relatively uncommon letter (which reminds me
    that I've been meaning to compile some letter frequency data for Greek). Also,
    many Greek texts of the period were printed largely without uppercase letters.
    But below are some images that display the early printed forms of \u039E \u03B6
    \u03BE and other letters that have taken variant forms.\r\n\r\nFirst, though,
    what is probably the first instance of obvious Latinisation in the history of
    Greek type. Note the p-like rho.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GR1.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GR2.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GR3.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GR4.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GR5.jpg]\r\nAbove,
    note hilarious composition error in last work of first line: upsidedown mu as
    pi and upsidedown pi as mu. Classic!\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GR6.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GR7.jpg]\r\nAbove,
    deeply weird typeface. The earliest use of zigzag form of (lowercase) ksi I have
    been able to locate so far.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GR8.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GR9.jpg]\r\n\r\n.\r\n\r\nAnd
    finally Proctor's Otter type, in which these historical forms first find modern
    expression (1903, cut by Miller & Richard):\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/GR10.jpg]\r\n\r\nScholderer
    maintained a few of the oddities of the Otter type, but replaced most of them
    with more 'normal' Greek letters. Monotype carried this process further when manufacturing
    the New Hellenic design for the Greek market."
  created: '2006-04-18 01:55:41'
- author:
    name: DTY
    picture: 111532
  body: For what it's worth, the zig-zag Xi and cursive Omega are, along with lunate
    Sigma, the standard shapes in later ancient inscriptions (from about the second
    or first century BC until the making of inscriptions pretty much died out around
    the end of the sixth century AD). These shapes might appear odd to a modern Greek,
    who would be accustomed to the earlier letter forms, but perhaps Scholderer thought
    they fit better with the Byzantine lower-case.
  created: '2006-04-18 02:08:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Nick:\r\nI'm about as American in ways that count as you are\r\na text face
    designer. In ways that count. What eats\r\nme is people selling their culture
    for consumables.\r\n\r\nAs for pretending, if you ever manage to stop pretending
    that\r\nyou're civilized maybe you can have a meaningful discussion\r\nwith John.
    As usual, it takes a private investigator to figure\r\nout that you're disagreeing
    with him.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 02:10:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019ve been meaning to compile some letter frequency data for Greek\r\n\r\nThere's
    a university in Greece (I can track down full details) that's\r\ndone that. Klimis
    once directed me to them, so you can always ask him.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 02:16:43'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: Thank, I'll do that. I have a pretty large corpus of classical and koine changes.texts,
    but very little modern Greek. One of the things I would be interested to see is
    what kind of variation in frequency occurs as a result of the linguistic and orthographical
    distinctions.
  created: '2006-04-18 02:51:49'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>\u201CIt remains to be said, however, that our general printing still
    has need of a greek which shall sort agreeably with the romans and italics we
    are bound to use. We require an upright Caslonised fount which, in use as citations
    or extract matter, shall be no more conspicuous in the page than is the italic.\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nThanks
    for that quote, Petri. There's an idea for an upcoming Typophile Type Battle:
    design a Caslonised Greek."
  created: '2006-04-18 02:55:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "OK, I just did some digging in emails from about 3 years ago: although Klimis
    did provide good insights and info, it was actually Yannis Haralambous who pointed
    me to the following language institute: http://www.ilsp.gr/\r\n\r\nFrom there
    I got an analysis of the Hellenic National Corpus, described here:\r\nhttp://hnc.ilsp.gr/en/\r\n\r\nHere's
    a screen grab of the spreadsheet they sent me:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Greek_frq.gif]\r\n\r\nIf
    you manage to acquire any digraph data from them, please let me know.\r\n\r\n>
    design a Caslonised Greek.\r\n\r\nEasy. Exhume Schonfield, revive his corpse,
    and\r\nsend him on an extended holiday in the Sporades.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 03:42:00'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I\u2019m about as American in ways that count as you are a text face
    designer</em>\r\n\r\nAgreed.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\nYannis Haralambous shows an interesting
    form of beta in his example of New Hellenic (Keeping Greek Typography Alive, Thessaloniki,
    2002). I haven't seen this \"separated-loops\" form in any Monotype specimens,
    metal or digital. What's the story -- was it an alternate sort, or perhaps a letterform
    that Haralambous uses to match the similar form in Monotype Didot (Series 90)?\r\n\r\nHow
    popular was this form of beta, and what accounts for its demise?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/betaNS.jpg]"
  created: '2006-04-18 04:02:50'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "I've only seen this variant beta for New Hellenic in Yannis' version. I think
    the top loop is too small.\r\n\r\nFor most of the history of Greek typography,
    both forms of beta are used side-by-side. Here are Granjon's, as shown in the
    Egenolff-Berner brevier specimen:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/granbeta.jpg]\r\n.\r\n\r\nSome
    printers seem to have employed a rule that what we think of as the normal form
    should be used at the beginning of words, and the double-loop variant in mid-word,
    but for the most part I've seen them used interchangeably, presumably at the discretion
    of the compositor. The variant forms of theta and psi are also used interchangeably.\r\n\r\nMost
    of this typographic history is, of course, in the Byzantine cursive style popularised
    by Aldus. So in addition to these variant letter there was a lot of variation
    of form provided by ligatures.\r\n\r\nWhen the variant beta appears in more recent
    fonts, it may have a slightly different form, in which the two loops meet. These
    are the forms in the MS ClearType collection fonts.\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/msctbeta.gif]\r\n.\r\n\r\nAlthough
    I followed this form in Constantia (second from right) because it worked with
    the Latinate ductus, I prefer the separate loop form, which certainly works better
    with the traditional Byzantine ductus."
  created: '2006-04-18 05:42:00'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: PS. Note that the double-loop beta has a separate codepoint in Unicode, because
    it is sometimes used as a maths symbol with a distinct meaning.
  created: '2006-04-18 05:44:25'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> your need to impress with what a champion of the oppressed you are.\r\n\r\nNot
    a champion, but a victim: http://www.armenian-genocide.org/ _\r\nI wouldn't be
    in a foreign land, fighting cultural assimilation, were\r\nmy grandparents' families
    not slaughtered and driven from their\r\nancestral land, a land we called home
    for almost three millennia.\r\nI don't know whether to envy you, or pity you,
    for never being\r\nable to really understand how it feels.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 07:34:06'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>for never being able to really understand how it feels</em>\r\n\r\nRight,
    your exile is so much more sincere than mine.\r\nI'm just expat lite.\r\n\r\n***\r\n\r\n<em>Some
    printers seem to have employed a rule that what we think of as the normal form
    should be used at the beginning of words, and the double-loop variant in mid-word</em>\r\n\r\nThat
    makes sense for the colour and flow of text, because the normal beta has such
    a long vertical stem -- both ascender and descender -- that it really interrupts
    words. Traditionally, the baroque (to use Bringhurst's terminology) stress of
    Greek in faces like Didot (Apla) lessened the effect, but nowadays many Greek
    fonts have consistent vertical stress, especially sans, which can't be the best
    situation for characters like beta, phi, and psi (although they are fortunately
    infrequent).\r\n\r\nJohn, would it be appropriate to make a double-loop beta as
    the dafault?"
  created: '2006-04-18 17:29:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I\u2019m just expat lite.\r\n\r\nNick, you're honestly comparing your case
    to the fallout of genocide? How many among your mother's and father's families
    were raped, murdered and driven off their land? And let's see you compare yourself
    to the children of Holocaust survivors - I dare you.\r\n\r\nHave some decency.\r\n\r\n>
    the normal beta has such a long vertical stem \u2014 both ascender and descender
    \u2014 that it really interrupts words.\r\n\r\n?\r\nA bunch of Greek letters have
    comparable vertical span.\r\nNot that immersive reading works like that anyway.\r\n\r\n>
    nowadays many Greek fonts have consistent vertical stress\r\n\r\nI wonder why...\r\nMust
    be the same reason weathermen have names like Dallas Raines.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 17:46:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Nick, you\u2019re honestly comparing your case to the fallout of genocide?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm
    suggesting your drama queen of victimhood act is getting tedious. "
  created: '2006-04-18 19:26:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Disgusting.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 19:28:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Hrant, Nick, do you want to take that elsewhere? I'd really like to talk
    about Greek letters.\r\n\r\n<em>John, would it be appropriate to make a double-loop
    beta as the default?</em>\r\n\r\nNo, I don't think so. The typical \u03B2 is very
    much the normative shape today, and even in renaissance type specimens and grammars
    I have looked at it is always listed before the double-loop variant."
  created: '2006-04-18 20:35:47'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>The typical \u03B2 is very much the normative shape today,</em>\r\n\r\nI
    agree with you that Haralambous' New Hellenic beta is not quite right, but in
    general I'm taken with his advocacy of the double-loop form. And as an alternate
    of bona fide status in a number of typefaces (unlike Scholderer's oddities), surely
    it would be acceptable as default in a new design -- as a signature glyph. Also,
    as CT is promoting the double-loop form to default status in its slanteds, where
    the vast majority of characters have the same form as the upright, wouldn't this
    also indicate that the double-loop form has something of a cachet?"
  created: '2006-04-18 21:23:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> surely it would be acceptable as default in a new design\r\n\r\nIn a trendy
    display font, possibly.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-18 22:12:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "In my mother's  handwriting, her zeta looks very much like John's second
    beta a few post above.  Since zeta is part of my last name, it could be that so
    much repetitive writing of it has evolved the zeta into something else.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-18 22:30:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>trendy display font</em>\r\n\r\nAlongside your open-tailed \"g\", no
    doubt.\r\n\r\nBut seriously, what do you make of Haralambous' preference for the
    double-bowl beta? -- he is after all a traditionalist concerned with text face."
  created: '2006-04-18 22:39:18'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> her zeta\r\n\r\nAnd if that form also happens to be that of enough others,
    then that's certainly a good reason to avoid using it for the beta. In fact it's
    an axiom of alphabet evolution* that handwriting tends to converge forms (and
    sometimes you need a drastic, conscious adjustment, like the case with the crossed
    7 in some cultures).\r\n\r\n* See \"Canons of Alphabetic Change\" in \"The Alphabet
    and the Brain\".\r\n\r\n> Alongside your open-tailed \u201Cg\u201D\r\n\r\nCertainly
    B&R#1/Oxford/Monticello, the face used to set Updike's \"Printing Types\", and
    one that he (a hard-core traditionalist) thought very highly of, is a social butterfly
    of a font, isn't it!\r\n\r\n> he is after all a traditionalist\r\n\r\n?\r\nHave
    you seen his work in Arabic?!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 01:18:50'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>a social butterfly of a font, isn\u2019t it!</em>\r\n\r\nNot really.
    There are several kinds of open-tailed g, and that, which is little more than
    a missing hairline, barely ranks.\r\n\r\n<em>Have you seen his work in Arabic?!</em>\r\n\r\nCute.
    But we're talking about Greek type...?"
  created: '2006-04-19 01:39:11'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>surely it would be acceptable as default in a new design \u2014 as a
    signature glyph.</em>\r\n\r\nSure, with the caveat that a 'signature glyph' may
    be the reason someone chooses not to use a particular typeface.\r\n\r\n<em>Also,
    as CT is promoting the double-loop form to default status in its slanteds, where
    the vast majority of characters have the same form as the upright, wouldn\u2019t
    this also indicate that the double-loop form has something of a cachet?</em>\r\n\r\nGerry
    recommended this approach for the CT italics because the double-loop form is the
    more cursive variant, so it is a good way to increase the distinction between
    upright and italic in Greek type, which otherwise has far fewer style distincions
    in individual letterforms than Latin or Cyrillic."
  created: '2006-04-19 02:36:00'
- author:
    name: Giordano
    picture: 111222
  body: "<cite>Hey, maybe it\u2019s a Canadian thing? You are, after all, exceptionally
    good at being assimilated by a larger culture while pretending the opposite (at
    least collectively - exceptions do exist, and are commendable). Really, your license
    plates should say: \u201CCanada - The Hockey State\u201D. I\u2019m sorry if that
    hurts your feelings, but as we say in Armenian, \u201Clet\u2019s sit crooked but
    talk straight\u201D.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou have nothing intelligent to say so you
    insult my country? An \"American thing\", to be sure.\r\n\r\nWe don't pretend
    to be protecting our culture. There's no such thing. It may be difficult for an
    ethno-centric American such as yourself to understand, but in Canada, immigrants
    are encouraged to keep their culture and language alive. \"Canadian\" culture
    is just a bunch of English, French, Scottish, Italian, Jewish, Greek, and other
    nationalities and their kids and grandkids. I don't understand exactly what you
    mean by protecting \"Canadian culture\" (or \"American culture\", for that matter).
    Does it mean we should make Iroquois and Inuktitut the official languages? Anyone
    in North America who is not a Native American is nothing more than an immigrant,
    and as such has no real right to protect \"their\" culture.\r\n\r\nMy grandfather
    left the Soviet Union during the Holocaust, fleeing persecution. Since you <strong>insist</strong>
    on playing Genocide like a poker card, 10 million dead beats 1 million. My grandparents
    left Italy because they were so poor they lived in a hut and came here to make
    something of <strong>themselves</strong>; not their \"culture\". And they did.
    The language of Dante, sculpture of Michelangelo, countless operas, poems, paintings,
    and scholarship never did them any good. Their working blue-collar for the city
    and sewing in a hot factory on St. Lawrence and St. Viater for 70 hours a week
    is what allows me the privilege of sitting in my nice house and of having this
    delightful conversation right now, and it affords them the same right. Dante had
    nothing to do with it.\r\n\r\nFurthermore, beavers, stars and stripes, Mount Ararat,
    roses, thistle, and leek.. lovely symbols, but what have they done for you? President
    Kennedy said \"Ask not what your country can do for you, but what you can do for
    your country\". Was he high? You don't exist to be subservient to your \"nation\",
    it exists to protect and serve <cite>you</cite>.\r\n\r\nPierre Trudeau, <cite>our</cite>
    greatest leader, held to an ideal of individual rights (which is why he left the
    Quebec separatist movement - he found its limitations on freedom of education
    and freedom of speech in the name of the \"nation\" unjust). So you see, our lack
    of any specific culture is in fact quintessentially \"Canadian\", and it is the
    amaranthine Canadian quality that is the reason why we will never be \"assimilated\",
    as you say.\r\n\r\nFinally, as we say in Larinese, the dialect of my town in Italy
    (population 7.000 and one of the last places in Italy to fall to Latin Rome):\r\n\r\n\"Larino,
    Larino, la bella citta\u2019; si mangia, si beve, l\u2019amore, si fa.\"\r\n<cite>\u201CLarino,
    Larino, the beautiful town; one eats, one drinks, one makes love\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nAnd
    if that isn\u2019t culture, then I don\u2019t know what is.\r\n\r\nIn summation,
    stick to fonts.\r\n\r\nP.S.: As far as your idea that \"I don't vote, so I'm not
    responsible\", I offer you another proverb: \"Chi tace acconsente\" - <cite>\"Silence
    is consent\"</cite>. Grow up."
  created: '2006-04-19 02:54:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> little more than a missing hairline\r\n\r\n?\r\nPlease look at it again:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/oxford-g.gif]\r\n\r\nMaybe
    you've forgotten how thin hair is?\r\nOr how large that ball is?\r\n\r\n> But
    we\u2019re talking about Greek type\u2026?\r\n\r\nBased on other things he's done,
    I have reason to believe that Haralambous is not remotely a \"traditionalist\".
    What reasons (besides fishing for any pretext to favor a form your personal taste
    prefers over one that users of Greek would prefer) do you have to think the opposite?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 06:24:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> immigrants are encouraged to keep their culture and language alive.\r\n\r\nYes,
    I can see Nick for one is big fan of that approach...\r\nAnd of course you are
    too, with your \"who needs it\" dance.\r\n\r\nI live in LA (and wouldn't live
    elsewhere in the US). If you don't know what LA is really like, that explains
    your complete misunderstanding of a much more vital situation: over here, immigrants
    are encouraged to assimilate, but they're mostly fighting it like mad, and to
    some extent succeeding. THAT is interesting and useful. THAT is REAL. Unlike in
    your nondescript wastelands, most people LIKE their cultures, have to fight to
    keep them going, and don't mind doing so. Face it.\r\n\r\n> 10 million dead beats
    1 million.\r\n\r\nMore like 6 to 1.5, but it's not just the numbers, and in fact
    the Armenian Genocide was/is actually worse than the Holocaust, because: we lost
    our LAND - not REGAINED it; its apparent success was used to help launch the Holocaust*;
    and most of all there has been no recognition, much less reparation. We certainly
    weren't awarded a country as compensation! And we don't get to harangue museums
    for loot or persecute 90-year-olds in Brazil. Basically, you're back on your feet
    now, in a big way (and in fact increasingly behaving like the people who slaughtered
    you**), while we're under blockade from Turkey (a Western ally), we have to fight
    various rich lobbies in the US to maintain our paltry foreign aid, and we're still
    being murdered***. Only one case of Genocide is worse than ours: the Native American
    one. And it's quite telling to see what countries were founded on their de facto
    extermination...\r\n\r\n* They don't tell you THAT one, do they!  :-/\r\n\r\n**
    Like father like son I guess.\r\n\r\n*** http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/4907552.stm\r\n\r\nYou
    know the history that suits you.\r\n\r\n> My grandparents left Italy because they
    were so poor\r\n> they lived in a hut and came here to make something\r\n> of
    themselves; not their \u201Cculture\u201D. \r\n\r\nIndeed, culture cannot thrive
    in abject poverty; although a little bit of poverty can sometimes do wonders for
    fields that can't make much money anyway - for example note the boom in quality
    typeface design in Argentina right after their economic meltdown. And actually,
    culture cannot thrive in Capitalism. Only its hollow dopleganger can.\r\n\r\n>
    what have they done for you?\r\n\r\nNot nearly as much as the Swastika has been
    doing for you...\r\nYou don't know how lucky you are - you're so... aberakhd.\r\n\r\n>
    You don\u2019t exist to be subservient to your\r\n> \u201Cnation\u201D, it exists
    to protect and serve you.\r\n\r\nThis disease of Individualism is exactly what's
    most wrong with\r\nthe West, and exactly why China is going to <cite>bury</cite>
    you soon enough.\r\n\r\n> our lack of any specific culture is in fact quintessentially
    \u201CCanadian\u201D\r\n\r\nWhat are you talking about? You're practically a US
    state.\r\nYou're more like the US than LA, SF, NYC and Nawlins!\r\n\r\n> And if
    that isn\u2019t culture, then I don\u2019t know what is.\r\n\r\nSo eating, drinking
    and fornication is the totality of culture for you?\r\nWhat are you doing on Typophile?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 06:31:41'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[Ignoring latest chest-beating...]\r\n\r\nHey, that's neat!\r\nI'm not familiar
    with the face up close: this is how I assumed it was constructed:\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gblob.jpg]\r\nI
    certainly underestimated it.\r\n\r\n<em>What reasons ... do you have to think
    the opposite?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm basing my observation on the presentation \"Keeping
    Greek Typography Alive\", which he gave in Thessaloniki in 2002. He says:\r\n\r\n\"It
    is generally admitted that the typographically finest Greek books have been\r\ntypeset
    on Monotype machines ; furthermore there are still monotypists in Greece\r\nperpetuating
    that tradition. This is the reason why, to keep high quality Greek\r\ntypography
    alive, the author has started a research and development project called\r\n\xABdigital
    monotype\xBB (in Greek: \u03C8\u03B7\u03C6\u03B9\u03B1\u03BA  \xB5\u03BF\u03BD\u03BF\u03C4\u03C5\u03C0
    \u03B1). In this context, the word\r\n\xABmonotype\xBB is lowercased, since we
    are refering to the technique of using Monotype\r\nmachines, rather than on the
    machines themselves ; in French, the author\r\ntranslates this term \xABmonotypie
    num\xE9rique\xBB.\r\nDigital monotype is the method of computer emulation of the
    printed output of\r\nMonotype machines\"\r\n\r\nThe typefaces he shows are traditional
    faces such Didot (Apla), Porson, Elsevier, New Hellenic."
  created: '2006-04-19 06:44:32'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I think there's a difference between admitting that \"tradition\"\r\nhas
    been the only thing to produce acceptable results so far,\r\nversus believing
    that only it can ever do that. Even analysing\r\nsomething \"traditional\" to
    a great depth does not indicate full\r\nbelief in it. Hey, I tend to analyse chirographic
    fonts!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 07:14:38'
- author:
    name: Hyperboreus
  body: "Here is my fresh revival of Scholderer\u2019s zeeta.\r\nI wonder if this
    aspiring glyph seems usable to\r\nYou?\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/zeta_alt.jpg]"
  created: '2006-04-19 11:54:01'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Strictly on the basis of text colour, the normal zeta can be problematic --
    but it's a problem that kerning can fix, which was not an option for Scholderer.
    I'm guessing the zeta colour problem was one of the reasons he tried an alternative.
    This version may be a little tentative in proportion, too grey and even, lacking
    in personality (too much like a 3). Compare with the dynamic form of the gamma.
    This is a criticism of Scholderer's design, BTW, not your excellent rendering
    of it.
  created: '2006-04-19 15:32:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Petri, since it's a zeta and not a xi :-) it seems fine to me.\r\nBut it
    would be best to ask an expert.\r\n\r\nThe color problem of the conventional zeta
    that Nick points out\r\nis certainly real, and I don't think can be properly solved
    with\r\nkerning*. Look at the Apollonia font for what I think is a great\r\nbalanced
    solution to this conundrum. In fact except for its sadly\r\ncrippled eta (pointed
    out to me by John) it's my most favorite\r\nGreek font.\r\n\r\n* BTW, there was
    certainly some kerning possible in metal, and\r\nprobably enough to handle the
    conventional zeta (at least as far\r\nas it could be) especially since Greek is
    usually looser than Latin.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 16:46:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"especially since Greek is usually looser than Latin\"\r\n\r\nEven more
    so if it is letterspaced for emphasis :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nBTW: Hrant, would
    you please send me the spreadsheet with the frequency of occurance data for Greek
    glyphs?"
  created: '2006-04-19 19:19:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Dude, it would take less time to just retype it!  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 21:20:46'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "You mean that is it?\r\n\r\nI thought there was more to it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-19 21:43:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "No, that's all I got from them that time, but I'm sure\r\nthey can be pestered
    to churn out more, like digraph\r\nfrequencies (great for kerning).\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 23:29:06'
- author:
    name: Giordano
    picture: 111222
  body: "You are Americans ignorance, isolationism, and ethno-centrism (even if the
    ethnicity in question is Armenian) made manifest. Just look how you are convinced
    that Los Angeles, of all the plastic, fake, concrete-box-devoid-of-greenspace
    cities on this Earth, is somehow a metaphor for all the world to follow:\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>I
    live in LA (and wouldn\u2019t live elsewhere in the US). If you don\u2019t know
    what LA is really like, that explains your complete misunderstanding of a much
    more vital situation: over here, immigrants are encouraged to assimilate, but
    they\u2019re mostly fighting it like mad, and to some extent succeeding. THAT
    is interesting and useful. THAT is REAL. Unlike in your nondescript wastelands,
    most people LIKE their cultures, have to fight to keep them going, and don\u2019t
    mind doing so. Face it.</cite>\r\n\r\nI know immigrants are encouraged to assimilate.
    That\u2019s why first generation Italians in New York can\u2019t speak a word
    of Italian. Meanwhile, of the people I know (children of first- generation immigrants,
    people who were born here), at least 70% of <cite>their</cite> kids speak Italian.
    You have a few Latinos waving Mexican flags while begging for US citizenship (because
    your isolationist government [and that doesn\u2019t only mean Bush, but US policy
    in general] makes it nearly impossible to become a US citizen). You\u2019re right
    about one thing: in Canada people don\u2019t have to fight to protect their culture,
    because there is no latte-drinking, unilingual, pale, white-bread, twelfth-generation
    \u201Cmajority\u201D to be assimilated into, at least not in Montreal, Toronto,
    and Vancouver (there isn\u2019t much besides oil, diamonds, gold, and the world\u2019s
    largest reserves of fresh water anywhere in between \u2013 we await the US invasion
    as soon as you get out of Iraq [which means we feel pretty safe]), where these
    people exist but are a (still sizeable) minority.\r\n\r\nNondescript wastelands?
    I\u2019m not from Alberta. I\u2019m not from rural Quebec. I\u2019m from Montreal.
    It\u2019s a real city:\r\n\r\n<cite>cit\u2022y (s\xB9t\u201C\xB6) n., pl. cit\u2022ies.
    Abbr. C. 1. A center of population, commerce, and culture</cite>\r\n-The American
    Heritage Dictionary\r\n\r\nLA is a concrete box full of Americans. Centre of culture?
    L0LZ. Look, if you don\u2019t know what Montreal is really like, that explains
    your complete misunderstanding of a much more vital situation. A short course
    in cultural diversity and <cite>laisser faire</cite>:\r\n\r\nMontreal was founded
    by the French, who stole it from the Iroquois. Then, England won New France in
    the War of Spanish Succession. The French Canadians really didn\u2019t care who
    their King was, they still had to pay taxes and one <cite>M\xE8re-patrie</cite>
    is as bad as another. Moving on, the French speakers continued to be discriminated
    against by laws that made English the only official language, made knowledge of
    English necessary for any government position, made English required learning,
    etc. Later, the English found that Quebec francophones were, even after a century
    or so, fighting tooth and nail against assimilation.\r\n\r\nFast forward to the
    70s. Francophones wanted to be treated fairly, etc. They left the oppression of
    the Church. They went through the \u201CQuiet Revolution\u201D. Good, I applaud
    them. Make the country bilingual. Excellent. More French speakers in administrative
    positions. Absolutely, they are the majority in this province. Then the topic
    of \u201Cpreserving francophone culture\u201D emerges. Laws are enacted to do
    so. These laws make French the only official language. They make knowledge of
    French required for government positions. They make French the only language in
    which businesses of over 60 employees may be administered. They make French the
    only language for any public signage, including store signs. They make French
    the only language for education in the province except for the \u201Canglophone
    minority\u201D. That\u2019s right \u2013 immigrants to <cite>Canada</cite>, in
    <cite>North America</cite>, must go to school in French and only French. Even
    if they are American or British. English isn\u2019t allowed until after third
    grade, and for less than a limited number of hours per week.\r\n\r\nDo you know
    what it is to be an anglophone in Quebec? It is to be simultaneously part of the
    majority and minority (the same holds true for francophones, of course), and to
    be both the opressor and the oppressed. There are cities that are majority English-speaking
    (Montreal itself is 25% English, 25% \u201Cother\u201D, and only 50% French),
    but where every sign is in French, as per the law (which is enforced by the Language
    Police).\r\n\r\nDon\u2019t even get me started on immigrants. Every immigrant
    (and I mean at least to the third generation) in this city is trilingual. Are
    you? There are Chinese who send their kids to private English school as a loophole
    to the laws, the Arabs and Haitians who were given preference because their countries
    were once French possessions. There are the Italians, Greeks, and Portuguese who
    arrived before the institution of these laws who are now \u201Cassimilated\u201D
    into the anglophone group (meaning only that they speak English, not that they
    stopped making wine in their basements). My grandparents never even bothered learning
    English or French, yet they somehow communicate in both.\r\n\r\nAnd you know what?
    No one really cares. How many times have I heard people tell me, \u201Cas long
    as I can live my life...\u201D. The culture of Anglophones in Quebec is being
    destroyed by Bill 101. In the five years after the language laws were instated,
    over 100.000 anglophones left the province. They took the 401 to Toronto. It\u2019s
    called \u201Cthe Exodus\u201D. Low birthrates combined with no immigrant population
    renewal means certain death for English Quebec. So now <cite>you</cite> are gonna
    talk to <cite>me</cite> about \u201Cassimilation\u201D? Get over yourself.\r\n\r\nNow,
    do you really think I care about America? You think because we both speak English
    that we are the same. You are wrong. When have you ever been to Canada? I know
    that whenever I go to the US (not to take notes on how to be American, but to
    visit a friend who left during the 80s), I am always astonished by how divergent
    our two countries are. And I\u2019m talking about Maine, not Texas. I though that
    blue-state Democrats would be more like us Canadians. But they aren\u2019t. When
    Talking to Americans (also the name of a very funny Canadian comedy show), it\u2019s
    like they live on another planet, disconnected from the Earth. Canadians, however,
    live on Earth. Unless Bush has some plan to hardwire our brains to be permanently
    tuned to CNN, I don\u2019t know how we will ever become dim enough to be the 51st
    state. And, if you did take us over, I guarantee all future presidents would be
    Canadian-American. It\u2019s called an education system. Get one.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>More
    like 6 to 1.5, but it\u2019s not just the numbers, and in fact the Armenian Genocide
    was/is actually worse than the Holocaust, because: we lost our LAND - not REGAINED
    it; its apparent success was used to help launch the Holocaust*; and most of all
    there has been no recognition, much less reparation.</cite> \r\n\r\nI\u2019m not
    only talking about Jews. It\u2019s 10 million overall. Anyway, we\u2019re not
    talking about genocide.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>We certainly weren\u2019t awarded a country
    as compensation! And we don\u2019t get to harangue museums for loot or persecute
    90-year-olds in Brazil.</cite>\r\n\r\nSorry Armenians couldn\u2019t have been
    murdered by a rich Western European power instead of a third-world theocracy.
    As for \u201Cthe country\u201D in question, the original idea of Zionism was for
    a utopian Socialist paradise (before Socialism was proven a failure) where Muslims,
    Jews, and Christians could live together and get along. After the Holocaust, a
    minority of crazy religious loonies ran with it, and they got their Israel. While
    I don\u2019t agree with a country existing only for one group (which fringes on
    Fascism, to be sure), I applaud the crazies for getting what they wanted. If Armenians
    didn\u2019t, then too bad for Armenians. You need better PR people. Furthermore,
    while I might not agree with the circumstances surrounding its creation, Israel
    is a free, modern nation and has the right to exercise its Sovereignty in any
    way it sees fit. It certainly shouldn\u2019t be criticized by the one country
    that insists on policing the world and imposing its culture on everyone else (as
    you are doing with your arguments).\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Basically, you\u2019re back
    on your feet now, in a big way (and in fact increasingly behaving like the people
    who slaughtered you**), while we\u2019re under blockade from Turkey (a Western
    ally), we have to fight various rich lobbies in the US to maintain our paltry
    foreign aid, and we\u2019re still being murdered***.</cite>\r\n\r\n\u201CYou\u201D?
    I\u2019m not Jewish. I don\u2019t live in Israel, I don\u2019t kill Palestinians,
    and I think they'll have to sort that out for themselves.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Only
    one case of Genocide is worse than ours: the Native American one. And it\u2019s
    quite telling to see what countries were founded on their de facto extermination\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nYes.
    America, Canada, Brazil, Argentina... What\u2019s your point? Only one American
    country had Bush as an elected leader. I love how Americans always say they \u201CWon
    the West\u201D. Of course you won it: you were fighting people who had no guns.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>**
    Like father like son I guess.</cite>\r\n\r\nWhat does that even mean?\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>
    And actually, culture cannot thrive in Capitalism. Only its hollow dopleganger
    can.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo you charge for your fonts or do you offer them up for free
    as your contribution to our \u201Cculture\u201D?\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>Not nearly as
    much as the Swastika has been doing for you\u2026\r\nYou don\u2019t know how lucky
    you are - you\u2019re so\u2026 aberakhd.</cite>\r\n\r\nDo you think because you
    use Armenian words you command some kind of special respect? I speak five languages,
    I think the least you could do is stick to one.\r\n\r\nAnd, as I\u2019m not Jewish
    and don\u2019t live in Israel, like I said before, I didn\u2019t benefit in any
    way from the holocaust. I don\u2019t know exactly what you\u2019re trying to say,
    but it\u2019s not my job to stand up for Jews and it\u2019s not you\u2019re place
    to judge them as ungrateful. Since your first sentence uses the plural \u201Cyou\u201D,
    I\u2019ll assume the others are plural. You should refrain from making generalizations
    (especially negative ones) about any ethnicity, whether they have been the object
    of genocide or not.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite?>This disease of Individualism is exactly
    what\u2019s most wrong with\r\nthe West, and exactly why China is going to bury
    you soon enough.</cite>\r\n\r\nAre you <strong>insane</strong>?! China is the
    single most unbelievably individualistic, capitalist paradise ever to have existed
    on the planet Earth. <Cite>That\u2019s</cite> why they\u2019ll be burying us (that
    includes America) soon. The European Union is on its way to challenging American
    supremacy as well, which you neglected to mention.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>What are you
    talking about? You\u2019re practically a US state.\r\nYou\u2019re more like the
    US than LA, SF, NYC and Nawlins!</cite>\r\n\r\nWell, I ask again if you\u2019ve
    ever been to Canada, and where. Of course, there are similarities between Canada
    (at least the ROC- Rest of Canada, excluding Quebec) and the US, in that they
    were both founded by lame white farmer rednecks. The difference is that we\u2019ve
    progressed and the US hasn\u2019t. It <cite>does</cite> pain me a little to visit
    Ontario, and certainly to think of the Prairies, but nothing compared to crossing
    that border.\r\n\r\n\r\n<cite>So eating, drinking and fornication is the totality
    of culture for you?\r\nWhat are you doing on Typophile?</cite>\r\n\r\nIf that\u2019s
    my culture, that\u2019s my culture. What can I say? It\u2019s a small town. To
    you, only your idea of \u201Cculture\u201D is correct. No one else\u2019s reality
    has room to exist. That is what it is to be an American.\r\n\r\nAnd my point with
    that is this: My town, Larino, was a major centre of the Frentani, an Italic tribe
    connected to the Samnites. It then came under the influence of the Oscan civilization.
    It was then taken by Rome, after which it was the site of a battle with Hannibal.
    Then\u2026 you know the whole story of Rome and its glory and fall. Later, in
    the 1500\u2019s, a large group of Albanians immigrated there. They were mercenaries
    under Skanderbeg and fought off Ottoman armies in Greece, stopping their planned
    invasion of Europe. Later still, Croats arrived from Dubrovnik (then the Republic
    of Ragusa), and established themselves in the region. After all this and two world
    wars and Fascism and famine and poverty, all they can say about the city is that
    it\u2019s a real party town.\r\n\r\n\r\nSo could you just live your life and leave
    us alone ?\r\n\r\nCaulisse.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 02:04:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> trilingual. Are you?\r\n\r\nNo - I haven't been since about age 7. I'm
    currently at 5. And I'm guessing my five has a wider spectrum than yours. Plus
    I doubt you've travelled more than me (yes, Canada included). Anyway, none of
    that necessarily makes me a better person. But the point is: you really have no
    idea who I am. But in LA, I belong... sort of.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 03:46:31'
- author:
    name: Giordano
    picture: 111222
  body: No, Hrant. The point is that culture cannot be created or "protected". It
    is a spontaneous reaction to life. It can only expand through new ideas, whether
    they are home-grown or imported. When you stop renewal in order to "protect" culture,
    you only destroy it by removing its relevance and making it into mindless tradition.
  created: '2006-04-21 00:57:24'
- author:
    name: Hyperboreus
  body: "The GFS Neohellenic has been recently updated. It now includes hanging lowercase
    zeta as stylistic alternate (as well as alternate characters for lowercase delta,
    uppercase epsilon, xi and omega)...\r\nhttp://www.greekfontsociety.org/pages/en_typefaces.html"
  created: '2006-05-17 19:25:37'
date: '2006-04-14 16:53:08'
title: "The \u2018New Hellenic\u2019 Greek zeta and xi"

---
