---
author:
  name: AzizMostafa
  picture: 111536
body: "Dear Friends,\r\nReferring to the MRALLAH.jpg that comprises all the Arabic
  Characters from Hamza-to-Ya, I would like to highlight the Smart, Attractive + Space-saving
  Features of the Arabic Script first.\r\n\r\nNeedless to say, the Arabic letter Ha
  has 4 shapes: the flower-like initial, the 8-like middle + the final that looks
  like either o or q depending on the letter coming before.\r\n\r\nThat's right: Virtually,
  Arabic letters Change shape \u2014Tails not heads\u2014 in such a way that they:\r\n1.
  join (connect) appropriately to neighbouring letters through short curves or  straight
  lines. See (S+J) in Sojjadan + As-Sojood and how J joins D in the first and WAW
  in the latter.\r\n2. form easy-on-the-eye + self-explanatory Combinations (Ligatures)
  of 2 or more letters, not only at the beginning, but also at the mid & end of words.\r\nSee
  (S+J) in Sojjadan and As-Sojood and (M+H+M) of Mohammed and explore more...\r\n3.
  need no space between the words: one would simply understand where a word ends and
  the next one starts.\r\nThat's clearly seen in virtually all the Arabic Calligraphy
  (AC) of the \"Qol Howa Allaho Ahad\" where the Ha of the \"Howa\" overlaps the Lam
  of \"Qol\". Since the Lam takes the final shape and Ha the flower-like shape, then
  the space between the 2 words \"Howa and Qol\" is narrowed to minus.\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014
  03.2003 Start bulding my Naskh with 5+1 TTFs \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\nAs
  the strength of a chain lies in its weakest link, the Quality of an Arabic font
  lies in its poorest feature: Ligatures , Diacritics Positioning Kerning? \r\nBy
  Applying my own technique, I finished designing -9 months ago- a new font of AC
  with the help of which I successfully completed building up the most Challenging
  Arabic Text of the Glorious Quran\u20143 years of hard work...\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/MRALLAH_3859.JPG]\r\nAs
  the MRALLAH.jpg shows, my font is distinguished by:\r\n\u2022 Ligatures of upto
  4 Consonants, not only at the beginning, but also at the mid + end of words.\r\n\u2022
  Smart Joiners: Straight and curved Tails for Consonants and ligatures.\r\nSee (S+J)
  in Sojjadan and As-Sojood and how J joins D in the first and WAW in the latter.\r\n\u2022
  Full Kerning by shifting up and/or right any letter that follows, R,D,WAW and likewise.
  See (D+Alif) in Ashidda and (R+T) in Maghfiratan.\r\n\u2022 Four (4) baselines for
  Consonants & 7 lines for Vowels (Diacritics). \r\nSee the 3 lines in (M+H+M) of
  Mohammed and the fourth in (Y+N) of Allazina.\r\n\u2022 Accurate Vowels Positioning.
  They \u2014Vowels (Diacritics or Marks) are:\r\n1 horizontally centered, slightly
  above or below the letters they belong.\r\n2 distributed in harmony with the ligatures,\r\n3
  neither touching the letters to which they belong, nor transgressing neighbors.\r\n\u2022
  WAW Discrimination:  The word WAW (AND) is lowered and attached to the next word.
  See (WAW+R) in WaRizwana.\r\n\u2022 Compatibility with any software that runs on
  98/2000/XI & reads RTF.\r\n\r\nThat's right: In order to achieve all the possible
  ligatures of AC, and accurately position diacritics, I:\r\n\u2022 Designed (5+1)
  TTFs comprising  more than 1100 Glyphs and\r\n\u2022 Translated the Rules of AC
  into Word-Macros to juggle 5 TTFs accordingly.\r\n\r\nFinally, worth mentioning
  that Virtually, the Arabic Text (AT) of All the PC & TV Programs of the Glorious
  Quran\r\n\u2022 is too small and/or does not match the poorest AC.\r\n\u2022 does
  not always start and/or end meaningfully in the same screenshot, \r\n\u2022 and/or
  does not always go in line with Recitation and/or Translation.\r\nIn summary: My
  Font solves all the Screen and Paper Publishing problems\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014
  08+09.2010 Aziz Naskh = A single TTF \u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\nAziz
  Unique+Dynamic Ballpen Naskh is being finalized to go with\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/48495\">MaryamSoft
  Arabic Calligrapher</a>. I have typeset the above sample in Word 2003 and printed
  it to a PDFile (attached) in 2 colors, Glyphs in Black and the separable Dots +
  Marks in blue to emphasize the point mentioned by <a href=\"http://www.khaledhosny.org/node/142\">khaledhosny</a>.\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\nThanks
  Typophiles for the Input + Feeback with <a href=http://www.typophile.com/node/51401>Flowers</a>.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: Try spotting the differences between the 2 jpgs.
  created: '2006-04-19 05:36:14'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">But so far, no sponsor to transform my 6 TTFonts into a single OTF?!\r\n
    \r\nFor sure the work in converting your custom-encoded fonts into an OpenType
    font isn't trivial, but why do you need a sponsor? What's holding you back from
    doing this yourself? \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 15:59:19'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Arabic is a glorious script (one of my all-time favorites),\r\nand you've
    put in an incredible amount of effort. Bravo.\r\n\r\nThe main thing I notice about
    this is its extreme tightness.\r\nThis is not unique, but especially in the digital
    realm it\r\nis pretty rare. It saves space, and creates a special texture,\r\nbut
    as you might have already encountered, some people\r\nwill say it's too tight.\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of saving space, you write:\r\n> need no space between the words\r\n\r\nAlthough
    this is more true for Arabic than Latin (except for  fully-joined Latin script
    fonts :-) it's still not true enough: if the last letter of a word happens to
    be one that has no join on its left, it can often get confusing. On the other
    hand, Arabic does save space in two other ways: it can dump [short] vowels*; and
    it distributes its \"information\" more evenly in the Cartesian area** (which
    also has a  readability advantage). But this latter part comes at a price: lesser
    apparent size.\r\n\r\n* Although this actually comes from a linguistic advantage:\r\nSemitic
    languages need vowels far less than Indo-European ones.\r\n\r\n** Whereas Latin
    for one is much more horizontal.\r\n\r\nIn terms of getting this to market, I
    might suggest Linotype.\r\nBut if they say no, they probably have a valid reason:
    they\r\nalready have an accomplished \"uncompromising\" Arabic\r\ntypeface, including
    full coverage of the Qur'aan style.\r\nIf they decline you could look for font
    houses that would\r\nlike to rival Linotype in Arabic fonts.\r\n\r\nOr you could
    try contacting SIL. They recently\r\nreleased Arabic fonts, but nothing like yours.\r\nhttp://www.sil.org/
    _\r\nJust one thing: with SIL, don't push the Qur'aan angle too much.\r\n\r\nLastly,
    like Simon said you could do it all on your own.\r\nBut finding and leveraging
    good distribution channels\r\nfor this sort of thing is non-trivial.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-19 18:59:18'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Misunderstood and Underestimated Space-savingness!\r\nWhat makes Arabic space-saving
    is Not Only the Word-Spacings But Also Ligatures and Kerning (inter-word-spacing).
    \r\nLigatures integrate 2 or more letters into one. Example: L+M+H+M occupy a
    single Ha-space.\r\nKerning integrates 2 letters into One. Example: Alif+R occupy
    a single R-space.\r\nLigatures and Kerning are fantastically handled in my font.\r\n\r\nVowels
    too play their role in Arabic Space-savingness. How?\r\nArabic Vowels are virtually
    dropped without sacrificing readability thus made less horizontal than the Vowels-thirsty
    English.\r\n\r\nWord Space Modulation (WSM)\r\nIf a word ending with a clockwise
    letter (like Ra) is followed by a word starting with counterclockwise letter (like
    3ain), the space between them is eleminated without sacrificing readability.  My
    word Macros fail to do this WSM in the case of a fully justified text.\r\n\r\nWhat\u2019s
    holding me back me from transforming my the Six (6) TTFonts into a single OTF?!\r\nUnfortunately,
    LinoType rejected my font without giving any reason save-I guess- the complexity
    of transforming the 6 TTFs fonts into a single OpenType Font though they have
    never produced any \u201Cuncompromising\u201D font with nor without the Quran
    style.\r\nLack of Capital, Lack of indepth Knowledge of Open-Type Tech and more
    discouraging is the Web that has rendered Copyrights meaningless particularly
    in the Arabic World. Here and around you can get All the Linotype and SIL fonts
    free of charge.\r\nOtherwise, by now, I have marketed them without transforming
    them into a single font?"
  created: '2006-04-20 06:57:16'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> My word Macros fail to do this WSM in the case of a fully justified text.\r\n\r\nWhich
    is a shame, since deploying \"vertical kerning\" so to speak\r\nseems like a pretty
    clever way to justify a line. On the other hand,\r\nArabic has the advantage of
    the wonderful kasheedah for doing the\r\nsame (although admitedly by taking up
    MORE space instead of less).\r\n\r\n> they have never produced any \u201Cuncompromising\u201D\r\n>
    font with nor without the Quran style.\r\n\r\nI thought Linotype sells the fancy
    Diwan font that handles\r\nQur'aan setting (the impressive demo of which I saw
    at the\r\nATypI conference in Leipzig in 2000).\r\n\r\n> you can get All the Linotype
    and SIL fonts free of charge.\r\n\r\nThe SIL fonts are actually free anyway (which
    doesn't\r\nmean however that SIL doesn't pay people to make them).\r\n\r\n> Otherwise,
    by now, I have marketed them\r\n> without transforming them into a single font?\r\n\r\nI'm
    assuming that's not really a question,\r\nand you're saying that you would have
    started\r\nselling the \"complex\" system on your own were it\r\nnot for piracy.
    Ironically though, I would think\r\nthat this complexity would discourage piracy!
    :-)\r\nBut by the same token, it would discourage sales\r\nas well I guess...\r\n\r\nMaybe,
    if this is valuable enough to some people,\r\nyou could price it very high, include
    training with\r\nthe fonts, and settle for selling only a handful.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 09:25:33'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Kasheedah is wonderful if deployed where needed. But It behaves randomly
    and indiscriminately beautifying some words and spoiling others. So, it is virtually
    useless. WSM is a wiser alternative. But...\r\n\r\nDiwan Mishafi font is a built-in
    font and applicable in Diwan Sofwares only. Still it is not a faithful production
    (match) to their own Caligrapher's handwriting.\r\n\r\nComplex system?!\r\nMaking
    the fonts and building the macros was as complex as building my <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>\r\nBut
    deploying the font and applying the Macros is as easy as solving them.\r\nHowever,
    I am Still fighting the web to find One of the handful you mentioned in your marketing
    proposal.\r\nMany Thanks"
  created: '2006-04-20 11:13:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Unfortunately, LinoType rejected my font without giving any reason save-I
    guess- the... \r\n\r\nI can understand given the level of piracy out there that
    you might not want to go it alone, but Linotype isn't the only vendor working
    on Arabic types, Bitstream recently announced a tie-up with Mamoun Sakkal, and
    Monotype is involved in this area too. I'm sure there are others out there. For
    sure they may decide not to collaborate with you, but they'll likely give you
    an explanation if you ask nicely.\r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 14:55:53'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "this may be a little bit offtopic, but:\r\n\r\nhrant said:\r\n\xABSemitic
    languages need vowels far less than Indo-European ones.\xBB\r\n\r\nas far as i
    know, egyptian language (2000BC or so) used no vowels at all in written language
    - but i dont know how it was in spoken language.\r\n\r\nthat fact leads to the
    problem that some names could be pronounced differently - lets say \"Ramses\"
    could also be \"Rumsos\". but most of the names are probably covered because there
    are transcripts of them in other languages (\xE0 la stone of rosetta).\r\n\r\nand
    yes, i know that semitic would mean \"on the arabic peninsula\" if you'd be precise,
    but i just wanted to add this fact, nothing more."
  created: '2006-04-20 17:17:53'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "If your font is as good as you say it is, there should be enough of a market
    for it in the West (in fact, all around the world) to justify developing and publishing
    it yourself.\r\n\r\nWhile going through that process might not at first be a good
    return on your investment of time, other things will grow out of it.\r\n\r\nWhat
    you will need is your own website to publicize and explain the font, with a link
    to myfonts.com, where customers will be able to license and download it. That's
    the basic set-up for \"indie\" fonts, used by hundreds of foundries. \r\n\r\nWhile
    Myfonts distributes all-comers, other distributors are selective, to varying degrees,
    in the number of foundries they represent. But those other distributors will be
    more inclined to distribute your font(s) once you have established a basic presence.\r\n\r\nAnd
    really, there's not much difference between a contract with a distributor, and
    one with a publisher (\"foundry\"). \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 18:10:14'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> If your font is as good as you say it is, there should be enough of a market\r\n\r\nNot
    really. Simply because high culture is not very marketable (like you should be
    realizing with Panoptica). Certainly, \"good\" doesn't equate to \"trendy\". In
    fact sometimes, Really Good stuff simply has to be given away. And other times
    it's sadly not a good fit to the devious and capricious retail market.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 18:23:04'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>high culture is not very marketable (like you should be realizing with
    Panoptica)</em>\r\n\r\nAziz (or should I be addressing you as Mostafa?) -- I have
    type designs released by four publishers (since 1984), and another 20-odd typefaces
    which I publish myself (since 1999), which are sold around the world by nine distributors.
    So my advice is based on practical experience.\r\n\r\nWhile it's true that a typeface
    such as my Panoptica sells only a small amount, and never gets on the best-seller
    list at Myfonts, since its release in 2003 it's sold over a hundred (individual
    fonts) there, to people from many countries. That's the thing, although the retail
    market is, if not devious, at least capricious, thanks to the Internet it is a
    world market, and there are enough people committed to good typography, around
    the world, to make self-publishing a viable business.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 18:59:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> So my advice is based on practical experience.\r\n\r\nBut even more so
    on your belief system. Which to me is\r\nlike Swiss cheese: tasty, but more notable
    for its holes.  :-)\r\n\r\nAlso: how many non-Latin fonts have you sold?\r\nHow
    many Arabic ones? Don't understimate\r\nAziz's complaint concerning piracy.\r\n\r\n>
    it\u2019s true that a typeface such as my Panoptica sells only a small amount\r\n\r\nThe
    last time you brought that up, you were baffled by the fact.\r\nI'm simply trying
    to help you understand.\r\n\r\n> ... to make self-publishing a viable business.\r\n\r\nI
    certainly agree.\r\nBut it's mostly trendy faces that make the money. If you depended\r\nonly
    on fonts like Panoptica, would things still be \"viable\"? Sadly, no.\r\n\r\nAnyway
    my main contention arose from your \"enough of a market\". Enough\r\nfor what?
    Probably a return on time invested. And in the case of something that\r\nso few
    people (especially rich ones) appreciate, there's no way that's there.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 19:27:58'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Don\u2019t understimate Aziz\u2019s complaint concerning piracy.</em>\r\n\r\nI
    don't, which is why I emphasized the size and variety of the world market.\r\n\r\n<em>
    I\u2019m simply trying to help you understand.</em>\r\n\r\nYou're mocking me for
    poor sales, because you enjoy insulting me and my \"belief system\".\r\n\r\n<em>If
    you depended only on fonts like Panoptica, would things still be \u201Cviable\u201D?
    Sadly, no.</em>\r\n\r\nI was refering to the viability of self-publishing, not
    related to any particular genre of typeface.\r\n\r\n<em>But it\u2019s mostly trendy
    faces that make the money.</em>\r\n\r\nRight, popular faces sell more. Doh.\r\n\r\n<em>And
    in the case of something that so few people (especially rich ones) appreciate,
    there\u2019s no way that\u2019s there.</em>\r\n\r\nWell that's something for Aziz
    to figure out. All I'm doing is explaining a distribution model, and pointing
    out that obscure products can succeed, because the global market is so large and
    diverse."
  created: '2006-04-20 20:04:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I emphasized the size and variety of the world market.\r\n\r\nHere's the
    variety for you: in Western Europe and the\r\nUS* people buy fonts, in the rest
    of the world they don't.  :-/\r\n\r\n* I'm including Canada.  ;-)\r\n\r\n> You\u2019re
    mocking me for poor sales\r\n\r\n?\r\nNo way. Poor sales (and 100 units isn't
    bad) on one font can be\r\njust a fluke - most of the remainder of your library
    sells much\r\nbetter, right? At least you've said before that your overall\r\nsales
    are great - and that's enviable, not laughable.\r\n\r\nNick, we're different.
    If trying to help somebody else\r\nunderstand something is a foreign concept to
    you, don't\r\nthink that everybody on the planet is like that. Yes, I\r\ncan,
    and do help people I don't like - if maybe mostly\r\nbecause that helps ME become
    better. How many\r\ntimes have I propped up Panoptica, Richler and\r\neven Iowan
    Oldstyle? Blame my mother I guess.\r\n\r\n> Right, popular faces sell more. Doh.\r\n\r\nBut
    the association you're skirting is that TRENDY,\r\nas in fashionable, hip, faces
    (of which Aziz's font is\r\nNOT one) are the popular ones.\r\n\r\nThe consolation
    is that these fonts\r\nalso tend to be forgotten quickly.\r\n\r\n> obscure products
    can succeed\r\n\r\nFinancially, as a rule, obscure <cite>fonts</cite> cannot.\r\n\r\nMake
    an Arabic font, even a trendy one, and let's see if\r\nyou make one month's rent
    or mortgage on it in 10 years.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 20:45:55'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Here\u2019s the variety for you: in Western Europe and the US* people
    buy fonts, in the rest of the world they don\u2019t. :-/</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, I'll
    pass on my experience -- Mostly in the US, but also this year I've sold fonts
    through Myfonts to people in Canada, Japan, Austria, Singapore, Australia, NZ,
    Switzerland, Puerto Rico, Finland, and Belgium. That's for fonts with Latin encoding.
    I leave it to Aziz to figure out where the Arab communities and Arab printers/publishers
    are.\r\n\r\n<em>How many times have I propped up Panoptica, Richler and even Iowan
    Oldstyle?</em>\r\n\r\nIs that like investing in insult credits?\r\n\r\n<em>Make
    an Arabic font, even a trendy one, and let\u2019s see if you make one month\u2019s
    rent or mortgage on it in 10 years.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know anything about Arabic
    fonts, or the market for them. But if there is any market at all (rather than
    relying on the reputation of Linotype), then the method I have outlined -- self-publishing
    and Internet sales -- may be one way to access it. I tend to *believe* in the
    unexpected, so why not try and make it happen?"
  created: '2006-04-20 22:08:45'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Here\u2019s the variety for you: in Western Europe and the US* people
    buy fonts, in the rest of the world they don\u2019t. :-/</em>\r\n\r\nAgain, I'll
    pass on my experience -- Mostly in the US, but also this year I've sold fonts
    through Myfonts to people in Canada, Japan, Austria, Singapore, Australia, NZ,
    Switzerland, Puerto Rico, Finland, and Belgium. That's for fonts with Latin encoding.
    I leave it to Aziz to figure out where the Arab communities and Arab printers/publishers
    are.\r\n\r\n<em>How many times have I propped up Panoptica, Richler and even Iowan
    Oldstyle?</em>\r\n\r\nIs that like investing in insult credits?\r\n\r\n<em>Make
    an Arabic font, even a trendy one, and let\u2019s see if you make one month\u2019s
    rent or mortgage on it in 10 years.</em>\r\n\r\nI don't know anything about Arabic
    fonts, or the market for them. But if there is any market at all (rather than
    relying on the reputation of Linotype), then the method I have outlined -- self-publishing
    and Internet sales -- may be one way to access it. I tend to *believe* in the
    unexpected, so why not try and make it happen?"
  created: '2006-04-20 22:27:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Canada, Japan, Austria, Singapore, Australia,\r\n> NZ, Switzerland, Puerto
    Rico, Finland, and Belgium\r\n\r\nAll affluent countries. There's a reason Malaysia,
    Jordan\r\nand Ecuador are absent, and it's not because they don't\r\nuse Latin
    fonts - they certainly do.\r\n\r\nBTW, if you'd like an actual list, look at the
    middle of this page:\r\nhttp://www.atypi.org/20_join_atypi/50_individual _\r\nIn
    fact why do you think ATypI makes such an exception?\r\nKnow that it didn't come
    easy - there was resistance at\r\nthe highest levels. But in the end it was so
    clearly just\r\nthat plain common sense prevailed.\r\n\r\nSee what proportion
    of fonts you sell to THAT collection of\r\ncountries (which coincidentally form
    the crushing majority\r\nof this planet's population). I'm sorry, but no amount
    of\r\nmelifluous serenades about \"the unexpected\" is going to\r\nchange that
    reality.\r\n\r\n> Is that like investing in insult credits?\r\n\r\nPerhaps in
    a blindered, one-dimensional, one-upmanship world.\r\nIn my world, the compliments
    and \"insults\" (your term) come from\r\nthe same place: plain old honesty. If
    that fact seems... otherworldly,\r\nthen I'm sorry to see such an attitude.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 23:24:34'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em> I\u2019m sorry, but no amount of melifluous serenades about \u201Cthe
    unexpected\u201D is going to change that reality.</em>\r\n\r\nI wasn't addressing
    the rich country/poor country situation. I was correcting your assertion that
    only North America and Europe buy fonts.\r\n\r\n<em>plain old honesty.</em>\r\n\r\nHow
    about plain old respect for other people?\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 04:16:03'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "First, please feel free to call me Aziz,\r\nThen, tell me frankly:\r\nIf
    you can get a free-copy of a cheap software\u2014let alone the expensive one\u2014,
    \r\nwill you pay for it to the Author?\r\nAll the best."
  created: '2006-04-21 10:08:42'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "To go back abit:\r\n\r\nAziz Mustafa wrote:\r\n\r\n>>Uncompromising Arabic
    Font\r\n\r\nA better approach to Arabic fonts and Arabic typography is to ensure
    wide open options availability. We must ensure that users have options. Saying
    this I must congratulate Aziz on his great hard work.  But \u201Cuncompromising
    Arabic fonts\u201D is not the correct phrase.  Perhaps \"Uncompromising Calligraphic
    or traditional Quraanic Arabic font\" would be better. Aziz fonts are uncompromising
    in their quality as related to a certain Arabic Quraanic calligraphic style but
    they not uncompromising fonts as Arabic fonts.  Indeed they compromise technology
    and its economic factor, literacy, education, and global competition.  \r\nTraditional
    Arabic poetry is beautiful, but \u201Cfree\u201D Arabic poetry can be as beautiful.
    \ Both are Arabic poetry. Same goes for Arabic typography, we need to open options
    to the users. Arabic typography should not be defined rigidly.\r\n \r\n>>As the
    strength of a chain lies in its weakest link, the Quality of an Arabic font lies
    in its poorest feature: Ligatures , Diacritics Positioning and Kerning?\r\n\r\nLigatures,
    are both strength and weakness. Strength calligraphically but weakness typographically.
    Technology almost passed Arabic by because of insistence on institutionalizing
    complexity as the norm. Arabic should not be hostage of technology, it should
    instead emphasize simplification to conquer technology. In fact Arabic history
    adapted to new factors.\r\n \r\n>>need no space between the words: one would simply
    understand where a word ends and the next one starts.\r\n\r\nEven the greatest
    quraanic and calligraphic Arabic test can significantly benefits from spaces.
    There is a need for space. \r\n\r\nNick Shinn wrote:\r\n\r\n> If your font is
    as good as you say it is, there should be enough of a market\r\n\r\nHrant wrote:\r\n\r\n>>Not
    really. Simply because high culture is not very marketable (like you should be
    realizing with Panoptica). Certainly, \u201Cgood\u201D doesn\u2019t equate to
    \u201Ctrendy\u201D. In fact sometimes, Really Good stuff simply has to be given
    away. And other times it\u2019s sadly not a good fit to the devious and capricious
    retail market.\r\n\r\nDear hrant.  I am confused.  In another Forum and discussion,
    you attacked Mr. Thomas Milo, a pioneer Arabic caligraphic typfaces designer for
    decades dismissing even the need for Quraanic and calligraphic Arabic fonts. Why
    Aziz\u2019s fonts are different now?\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-24 19:01:28'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Ligatures ... weakness typographically.\r\n\r\nThat's a Modernist fallacy.\r\nSome
    very recent related material: http://typophile.com/node/19376\r\n\r\n> Arabic
    should not be hostage of technology\r\n\r\nAnd neither should readers.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    a hostage can't exactly liberate himself by becoming servile!\r\n\r\n> dismissing
    even the need for Quraanic and calligraphic Arabic fonts.\r\n\r\n1) Look through
    my previous posts in this thread, and try to find any place where I say that I
    actually like Aziz's font... A good critic helps a person get to where that person
    wants; he does not dismiss, he does not coerce; but he does educate and warn along
    the way. Taming one's own ideals is the key to becoming a good critic, for the
    simple reason that personal context is everything, and nobody is infallible or
    omniscient. Basically, it's an act of sharing, not shepherding.\r\n\r\n2) The
    argument with Thomas was messy and emotional (especially when he lapsed into historical
    revisionism on occasion - as you yourself complained back then) but as far as
    I remember my point wasn't to dismiss anything, but to ask that people not engage
    in historicism for its own sake, ignoring the current sociopolitical needs of
    users, and also that whatever path they choose, they realize and admit its full
    effects. To me Thomas's \"problem\" is that his work in effect (if not really
    necessarily) engrains chirography to the depths of the bones of visible language,
    where I feel that even its presence in the outer skin is a problem! This, whether
    anybody realizes it, admits it, or not.\r\n\r\nTo his great credit however, if
    you remember, Thomas had the grace and humility to admit that perhaps chirography
    is not as good a foundation for his scheme as would be readability. I wish that
    other people -including myself- could be that way more often.\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014\u2014\u2014\r\n\r\nToday,
    learn about the Armenian Genocide:\r\nhttp://www.armenian-genocide.org/genocidefaq.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 05:07:21'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Just few points for Saada!\r\n1. Spaces should be exploited not sacrificed.\r\n2.
    What is wrong with my font? It does:\r\n> go well with the Old and New Technology
    (Window 3.11 and WindowsXP).\r\n> fulfill the requirements of Arabic Calligraphy
    and Typography,\r\n> cover Arabic as well as Quranic Marks,\r\n> work well on
    most Adobe, Microsoft Applications and Qurakexpress. Moreover\r\n> look easy-on-the-eye,
    and will prove how easy-to-use.\r\nWhat else?\r\nOr should I dance to the tunes
    of the English-like Arabic Fonts Designers?!\r\nThanks with <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>"
  created: '2006-04-25 07:42:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> should I dance to the tunes of the English-like Arabic Fonts Designers?!\r\n\r\nNo,
    please not that!  :-)\r\nhttp://www.themicrofoundry.com/ss_rome3.html\r\n\r\nBut
    is there not a third way? Not that it's easy\r\nto figure out; even a know-it-all
    smart-aleck\r\nlike me is totally stumped on this!  :-)\r\n\r\nBut let's wait
    to see the Dubai results...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 17:16:38'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Hrant Wrote:\r\n> Arabic should not be hostage of technology\r\n>> And neither
    should readers. BTW, a hostage can\u2019t exactly liberate himself by becoming
    servile!\r\n\r\nIf Arabic is hostage of technology then *users\u201D of Arabic
    technology become the same. I do not see your statement in disagreement of mine.
    To clarify mine further, when Arabic or any other script editing and production
    on computers requires costly and technically sophisticated technologies we risk
    loosing users, markets, global competitions, and a lot of unnecessary expenses.
    \ Complex Chinese jumped to the web before Arabic!  Arab petro-dollars spent billions
    to ensure that letters like \u201CDal\u201D must have an isolated, initial, medial,
    and more glyphs.  Why? \r\n\r\n> dismissing even the need for Quraanic and calligraphic
    Arabic fonts.\r\n>>1) Look through my previous posts in this thread, and try to
    find any place where I say that I actually like Aziz\u2019s font\u2026\r\n\r\nDear
    Hrant, funny you mention that.  Yes I did notice that you did not say that you
    like Aziz fonts.  On the other hand I loved them.  My Question was why did you
    attack Thomas work and passion for calligraphic and Quraanic typography but had
    nice words for Aziz\u2019s similar work.  This was my confusion.  In that debate
    you even denied that Arab users need Thomas calligraphic fonts.  \r\n\r\nAziz
    wrote:\r\n>2. What is wrong with my font?\r\n\r\nAbsolutely nothing wrong.  Despite
    my non calligraphic font designs, I love Arabic calligraphy and support strongly
    Thomas\u2019s or your works.  Arabic fonts must include both.  Non should imply
    or hint that Arabic fonts must follow a set of rules, or they must follow calligraphic
    rules. Your \u201Cuncompromising Arabic fonts\u201D title tells the reader that
    other non calligraphic fonts are \u201Ccompromising Arabic fonts\u201D which brought
    up my disagreement. \r\n\r\n>Or should I dance to the tunes of the English-like
    Arabic Fonts Designers?!\r\n\r\nDance as you like and wish as long as you do not
    trip and do not push or hurt other dancers in the floor. Dance is healthy for
    us all\r\nAs for \u201CEnglish-like\u201D, that is your opinion. Even if it is
    true I do not see why \u201CEnglish-like\u201D or even \u201CChinese-like\u201D
    is a problem here.  Arabic is a great script that had adapted survived because
    of its great adaptability qualities.  Remember font design is about options.  Users
    options.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 17:50:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I do not see your statement in disagreement of mine.\r\n\r\nWhat I meant
    (and one place I thought we were disagreeing) is that\r\nit doesn't make sense
    to for example disjoin Arabic simply because\r\nWestern technology (not to mention
    business) would like us to.\r\n\r\n> why did you attack Thomas work and passion
    for calligraphic and\r\n> Quraanic typography but had nice words for Aziz\u2019s
    similar work.\r\n\r\nWell, I can think of a few reasons, one being that I was/am
    not being even-handed enough. But other reasons are: like I said, Thomas is engraining
    chirography much more deeply; and Aziz and Thomas have different contexts, and
    are asking for different things (or not asking for anything*); Aziz for example
    seemed confident (too confident?) in the integrity of his design, and was actually
    mainly asking for marketing advice. I guess I was trying to encourage a relative
    unkown simply by saying that the effort is appreciated; passion is the key, and
    it can drive future development, often in better directions; like how I used to
    make cruddy Armenian fonts (I mean really cruddy - not like Aziz's work at all)
    and people encouraged me, so I kept at it, and now make totally different, and
    I think much more mature, Armenian fonts.\r\n\r\n* An \"arty\" attitude which
    is itself objectionable.\r\n\r\n> In that debate you even denied that Arab users
    need Thomas calligraphic fonts.\r\n\r\nI try to never be that absolute (I think
    even\r\nHelvetica has its uses :-) so I don't think I\r\nsaid such a thing. But
    if I did, I was wrong.\r\n\r\n> Dance as you like and wish as long as\r\n\r\nBut
    also, do not dance alone, in a private expressive vacuum.\r\nThat's not Design;
    and it's very selfish.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 18:15:57'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Hrant Wrote:\r\n\r\n>>it doesn\u2019t make sense to for example disjoin Arabic
    simply because\r\nWestern technology (not to mention business) would like us to.\r\n\r\nFont
    design should be open. Users options should be open. What makes sense to some
    makes no sense to others. Technology and business are technology and Business.
    There are no \"western technology\" or \"western Business\". Just as Algebra and
    Chemistry are sciences not \"Arabic Sciences\" because they were historically
    developed by the Arab Muslim civilization.\r\n\r\n>>I guess I was trying to encourage
    a relative unkown simply by saying that the effort is appreciated; passion is
    the key, and it can drive future development, often in better directions;\r\n\r\nI
    have no doubt of your passionate and good natured manner, Hrant.  That is why
    I was a bit surprised at your severity at that debate. Like you, my first comment
    to Aziz was \"congratulations\" too. \r\n\r\n>>But also, do not dance alone, in
    a private expressive vacuum.\r\n\r\nYou can do that too. It is healthy.\r\n\r\n-Saad
    \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 19:17:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Saad, are you sure you're from Iraq?\r\nBecause your outlook seems way too
    rosy!  :-)\r\n\r\n> You can do that too. It is healthy.\r\n\r\nSure, but keep
    it private. Or if you feel the need to\r\nshow it, don't pretend it's anything
    more than Art.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 19:23:00'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Hrant wrote:\r\n\r\n>>Saad, are you sure you\u2019re from Iraq?\r\nBecause
    your outlook seems way too rosy! :-)\r\n\r\nI do not see the font debate connection
    here. But still even in Iraq I am still an optimist: Bush's occupation has been
    a splendid failure thanks to the Iraqi heroic resistance! And as usual persistance
    works.\r\n\r\n-Saad  \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 19:38:51'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Then, tell me frankly:\r\nIf you can get a free-copy of a cheap software\u2014let
    alone the expensive one\u2014,\r\nwill you pay for it to the Author?</em>\r\n\r\nYour
    question depends on whether the software is legally free, or \"free\" because
    it is pirated.\r\nFor my business, there are enough people, here and there, around
    the world, who are not software pirates, who buy my fonts. \r\nI have described
    what works for me, with Latin-script fonts, some of which are trendy, some of
    which are experimental, and some of which are straightforward.\r\nYou will have
    to figure out how your situation compares with mine -- and decide if my business
    model can be used, or adapted, to work for you. Hopefully, I have given you some
    useful perspective. Good luck!\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 19:53:27'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "By English-like Arabic, I meant behavior, not shapes! \r\nArabic kids do
    not dance alone , in a private expressive vacuum.\r\nContrary to English,  they
    twist and turn for Ligatures."
  created: '2006-04-25 20:08:00'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: ">>By English-like Arabic, I meant behavior, not shapes!\r\nArabic kids do
    not dance alone , in a private expressive vacuum.\r\nContrary to English, they
    twist and turn for Ligatures.\r\n\r\nMore of the same. Speaking and generalizing
    on behalf of users and the entire universe! Defining Arabic font taste, rules,
    history and future based on personal preferences! \r\n\r\nAgain the right approach
    for Arabic typography in my judgment is to ensure the availability of options
    through hard work. \r\n\r\n-Saad "
  created: '2006-04-25 20:45:10'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> here and there, around the world\r\n\r\nMore like here and here - only
    certain parts of the world. And critically in terms of your advice: generally
    not where Arabic is used. Don't get me wrong, it's very nice of you to offer advice,
    but be willing to modify it based on reality - based on the <cite>experience</cite>,
    as you say, of others.\r\n\r\n> to ensure the availability of options through
    hard work.\r\n\r\nAnd good ideas.\r\nBut Saad, still, some options are more relevant
    and\r\nneeded than others - saheeh amma la' ya khayyi?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 21:11:10'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>but be willing to modify it based on reality</em>\r\n\r\nFor goodness
    sake Hrant get off my case and stop lecturing me.\r\nI don't think Aziz is the
    idiot you seem to think he is, and is quite capable of understanding what I have
    to say, without your paraphrasing.\r\n\r\n<em>generally not where Arabic is used</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://www.girlguides.ca/default.asp?id=325"
  created: '2006-04-25 21:53:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "What \"idiot\", what \"paraphrasing\"? What <cite>you</cite> have told him
    is simply <cite>misleading</cite>, and I think you've actually come to realize
    that in fact. Except the simplest \"I was sort of wrong\" could never cross your
    lips I guess.\r\n\r\nI'm not \"on your case\", I just find myself having to do\r\ndamage-control
    with you all the time - it's quite tedious!\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 22:12:23'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>what \u201Cparaphrasing\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nNick: \"here and there, around
    the world\"\r\nHrant: \"here and there - only certain parts of the world\"\r\n\r\nEver
    the pedant (as Lorenza noted), you're splitting hairs.\r\n\r\nNick: \"what works
    for me, with Latin-script fonts\"\r\nHrant: \"in terms of your advice: generally
    not where Arabic is used\"\r\n\r\nI think Aziz is aware that Arabic is not a Latin
    script, without your having to point it out.\r\n\r\n<em>What you have told him
    is simply misleading,</em>\r\n\r\nThere is nothing deceptive about what I've said.\r\nI
    have been very open in explaining how my business works, and I can assure you
    that none of what I said is false.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 23:46:20'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "To Nick Shinn,\r\nAm Confused. What is your site all about?\r\nFonty Girls
    and/or Girly Fonts?\r\nThanks with <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>"
  created: '2006-04-26 05:21:27'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Yes, the Girl Guides of Canada are good fonty girls, and they use good girly
    fonts (Fontesque, of course).\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-26 08:06:43'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "In reply to Saad,\r\n> More of the same. Speaking and generalizing on behalf
    of users and the entire universe! Defining Arabic font taste, rules, history and
    future based on personal preferences! \r\nYour words has reminded me with my over-intelligent
    blood-brother when he looked at the Map of the Earth one day and said:\r\nIf God
    is All-Knowing, then why does the earth look like this?\r\n\r\n>Again the right
    approach for Arabic typography in my judgment is to ensure the availability of
    options through hard work.\r\nWhat options? \r\n_____________________\r\nIn reply
    to Nick,\r\nStill Confused?\r\nWhere are your Girly Fonts?\r\nWhat are you doing
    there: Mother of All Girls?\r\nOr One of the Outstanding Fonty Girls?\r\nPlease
    put me in the right direction.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-26 08:46:02'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>why does the earth look like this?</em>\r\n\r\nYeah, Europe and Asia
    are too closely kerned :-)\r\n\r\n<em>Where are your Girly Fonts?</em>\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/chik.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/chil.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/chim.png]"
  created: '2006-04-26 18:56:08'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Europe and Asia are too closely kerned\r\n\r\nLucky Europe. Hopefully this
    helps the West maintain a view into Reality.\r\n\r\nBTW, to me calligraphic Arabic
    is as feminine as writing gets.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-26 19:23:26'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Though Europe and Asia are too closely kerned, still we very-3 seldom see
    a Japanese with sharp nose or a British with horizontal eyes!\r\nOne of God signs
    is the creation of the heavens and earth and the variety of our Tongues and Hues
    (Languages and Colors). Surely in that are signs to All of us.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 05:10:29'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Humans have very little variety of colour, compared to some other species.
    Birds, for instance. (It's more a question of tone.)\r\nHowever, we have make-up
    and dyed hair, and genetic engineering will be able to create people with fluourescent
    green skin.\r\nSpeaking of tongues...\r\nhttp://www.usatoday.com/tech/science/discoveries/2006-04-24-tongue-research_x.htm"
  created: '2006-04-27 06:35:20'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Poor Man, It took him centuries to discover himself.\r\nAnd more time to
    Copy (not Create) Bodies (not Hearts)?!\r\n_____________________________________\r\nJust
    a fonty joke:\r\nA gentleman met a lady at a coffee shop...\r\nAfter a while,
    the lady followed the gentleman to his apartment.\r\nBefore Kerning and ligatures,
    the gentleman said: Frankly, My teeth are false!\r\nThe lady replied: Never mind!
    My hair and teeth are false!\r\nSoon the gentleman apologized for a forgotten
    appointment and the 2 got away after Marks Positioning!\r\nHappy Posting\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 07:39:10'
- author:
    name: Saad Abulhab
    picture: 110862
  body: "Aziz wrote:\r\n\r\n>>Your words has reminded me with my over-intelligent
    blood-brother when he looked at the Map of the Earth one day and said:\r\nIf God
    is All-Knowing, then why does the earth look like this?\r\n\r\n>>What options?\r\n\r\nif
    you are really looking for answers, may be you should ask your \"over-intelligent
    blood-brother\".\r\n\r\n-Saad\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 19:48:48'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "To Saad,\r\nWell, 1+1=2 and 1-1=0.\r\nAll the best.\r\n_________________________\r\nTo
    Hrant H Papazian,\r\nMiss you. Hope everything is OK with you.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 20:38:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Sorry Saad for my Slow Digestion\r\nNow I come to understand what you meant
    by \u201CpErS0na7 PrEfeREnCe5\u201D and \u201C@VAilabIlItY 0F oPtI0N5\u201D.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-28 03:46:26'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Spicing \"The Truth shall set you free\" by Rodrigue Planck, I hope I have
    answered All the Friendly Marketing Proposals. \r\nEnjoy reading:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19246\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-02 09:11:40'
- author:
    name: Giordano
    picture: 111222
  body: "<cite>I\u2019m not \u201Con your case\u201D, I just find myself having to
    do\r\ndamage-control with you all the time - it\u2019s quite tedious!</cite>\r\n\r\nNo
    one asked you for damage control, American.\r\n\r\n<cite>Lucky Europe. Hopefully
    this helps the West maintain a view into Reality.</cite>\r\n\r\nAsia is reality?
    What's your point? You just say things to instigate, and you only do it because
    you have nothing useful to say.\r\n\r\n<cite>the US* * I\u2019m including Canada.
    ;-)</cite>\r\nIs the smily because you're happy to be ignorant? Take a look at
    a map now and then."
  created: '2006-05-04 01:21:54'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm reminded nicely of one of the best lines in the already\r\ngenerally
    superbly scripted \"The Saint\" (1997), when the\r\npatazkukha says: \"You are
    not <cite>people</cite>, you are Americans.\"\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-04 19:31:47'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Peace be on All,\r\nPlease stop fighting and posting off-topic comments.\r\nEnough
    GunSmoke?! Try the Power of <a href=\"http://www.crAUSwords.com/flowers/WFlowers.htm\">Flowers</a>"
  created: '2006-05-06 04:54:31'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "On 19 April, 2006 Hrant wrote :\r\n> \"The main thing I notice about this
    is its extreme tightness.\"\r\nThen, on 26 April, 2006, he added:\r\n> Arabic
    is as feminine as writing gets.\r\nSay: Precisely!\r\nFeminineness and Tightness
    go hand in hand and shoulder to shoulder?!\r\nMany thanks for your complementary
    comments Hrant"
  created: '2006-05-20 07:51:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Feminineness and Tightness go hand in hand\r\n\r\nInteresting. I wasn't
    sure I agreed with that, but then\r\nI remembered that I think blackletter (especially
    the\r\nFraktur substyle) is highly feminine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-20 21:53:41'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "I love blackletter too. And the reason I love the Fraktur substyle most of
    all is encapsulated in its \u201Co\u201D: it incorporates the dual nature of Life?!"
  created: '2006-05-23 14:17:11'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Did you seriously think of that independently?!\r\nBecause that's <cite>exactly</cite>
    what I've said about Fraktur.\r\nWow.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 14:22:12'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Copyrighted?!\r\nIt seems that we are of the same wavelength.\r\nYou are
    too sweet Hrant\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-23 14:36:13'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Have you seen this work?\r\nhttp://qurankareem.info/a/OthmanyFonts.zip \r\nhttp://qurankareem.info/a/othmanyQuran.zip\r\n\r\nHere
    are the differences between mine and theirs:\r\n_Mine : Kerning fully applied\r\nTheirs:
    No Kerning.\r\n\r\n_Mine : Full Ligatures up to 4 Characters\r\nTheirs: Partial
    Ligatures up to 2 Characters\r\n\r\n_Mine : Full Ligatures at the beginning, middle
    and end of words\r\nTheirs: Partial Ligatures at the beginning of words Only.\r\n\r\n_Mine:
    Each Word has One and Only Structure\r\nTheirs: A single Word has 2 or more Structures
    (Fully or partially Ligated)\r\n\r\nLet alone the beauty and accuracy of fonts."
  created: '2006-05-24 11:25:36'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Adding new variants to my (5+1) fonts, I have modified my macros of Arabic
    Calligraphy to bring about:\r\n1 Twisted Ya in words free from R,Z and Waw (Lower
    Left couple of words)\r\n2 Swashed Ya \u2014 seen, sheen, sad, Zad as well as
    Qaf\u2014 if followed by words with no letter below the baseline (Lower Right
    couple of words)\r\n\r\nIt should be noted that:\r\n1 Priority is given to swashing
    as it is more space-saving and more beautiful.\r\n2 The Samples here are made
    out with another font (not mine) for the sake of illustration only.\r\n\r\nCheers?!
    Still No Sponsor?!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ATypeE_6686.jpg]"
  created: '2006-08-31 22:35:35'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "A Malaysian friend sent this to me a while back, and I'm happy to share it
    with you because I was impressed with the ingenuity of what non-Arabs Can do With
    Arabic Calligraphy.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Malaysia_5068.jpg]"
  created: '2006-11-07 05:00:28'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "Follow me + Thomas Milo:\r\nhttp://29letters.wordpress.com/2007/01/15/arabic-calligraphy-written-by-hand-or-type-set-on-the-computer/"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Hacen
      picture: 111610
    body: "In Arab world typography is still unknown, marketing fonts in Arab region
      is a failed mission, so it's better to spread the word first about typography
      in those countries, letting people (designers and users) understand the value
      of Arabic type.. This happens when we offer free stuff for them with a bit of
      information about the importance of protecting copyright and selling fonts as
      a \"software product\" as most of Arabic users dont know about that at all.\r\nGive
      the chance to make a real development of Arabic type industry in Arab countries
      by offering the information on typography in Arabic and engaging in the Arab
      communitites..\r\nIs there one mere Typography forum in Arabic?..\r\nIs there
      a site discussing Type in Arabic?..\r\nIs there a site selling the fonts in
      Arabic?..\r\n.. Arabic fonts are for Arabic language.. you the Arabic type pros
      dont care about Arabic; all your sites and studies are non-Arabic.. how could
      you ask for protecting and selling your fonts in Arab world and no one has information
      about you and your work??...\r\n...\r\nexcuses for my bad language."
    created: '2007-05-31 13:49:02'
  created: '2007-05-07 08:22:24'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Is there a site discussing Type in Arabic?</em>\r\n\r\nhttp://hibastudio.com/
    \ (server may be slow)\r\n\r\n<em>Arabic fonts are for Arabic language</em>\r\n\r\n...and
    Arwi, Balochi, Bedawi, Comorian, Dari, Fula, Hausa, Kashmiri, Kazakh, Kurdish,
    Kyrgyz, Malay, Mandinka, Pashto, Persian, Sindhi, Tajik, Tamazight, Turkish, Uighur,
    Urdu, Wolof..."
  created: '2007-06-01 00:09:45'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "> In Arab world typography is still unknown\r\nWell-Known, but since the
    know-how refuses to dance on the rope,\r\nthey go hiding lest they should be made
    to dance below the rope.\r\n\r\n> marketing fonts in Arab region is a failed mission,
    \r\nMission accomplished?!\r\nhttp://milafat.online.fr/arfonts/\r\n\r\n> so it\u2019s
    better to spread the word first about typography in those countries, \r\n> so
    it\u2019s better to spread the word first about Democracy in those countries?!\r\n\r\n>
    letting people (designers and users) understand the value of Arabic type.. \r\n>
    making people (dancers and Rulers) understand the value of ? type.. \r\n\r\n>
    This happens when we offer free stuff for them with a bit of information \r\nabout
    the importance of protecting copyright and selling fonts as a \r\n\u201Csoftware
    product\u201D as most of Arabic users dont know about that at all.\r\n\r\nThis
    happens when we offer cheap stuff for them with a bit of deformation \r\nabout
    the impo(r)tence of protectorate...\r\n\r\n> Give the chance to make a real development
    of Arabic type industry in Arab countries by offering the information on typography
    in Arabic and engaging in the Arab communitites..\r\n\r\n.... I had better suck
    coffee."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Hacen
      picture: 111610
    body: "In reply to Mr. Hudson:\r\n\r\n\u2026 I do know that Arabic script is not
      for Arabic use only, however, professor Aziz is addressing Arabs in his input
      and replies..\r\n\u2026 And, there's also \"another\" site \"discussing\" type
      in Arabic http://www.hacen.net\r\n\r\nMr Aziz:\r\n\r\nAre we here to discuss
      typography or democracy? Should we talk about Arabic dancing or Arabic typography?...\r\n\r\nThe
      site you mentioned to http://milafat.online.fr/arfonts/ is quite illegal, but
      what about the rest? \u2026\r\n\r\nIf Arabs are all \"dancers\" rather \"rulers\"
      (not users) why do you waste your valuable time in developing \"Arabic\" type
      and fonts for such dancers? Why do you develop your fonts for the Holy Quraan
      to be used by those \"dancers and rulers\"?\r\n\r\nWhat's your problem with
      Arabs? I had read many posts by you in forums blaming a nation which is famous
      in its passion of pen and calligraphy?.. \r\n\r\n.. Yeah, you'd better suck
      coffee when it comes to developing type industry in Arab world, but please be
      aware of sucking Arabic coffee.\r\n\r\nBest Regards.\r\n"
    created: '2007-06-01 13:56:10'
  created: '2007-06-01 07:29:07'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> why do you waste your valuable time in developing \u201CArabic\u201D type\r\n\r\nWhy
    do any of us waste valuable time developing fonts for any script?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Hacen
      picture: 111610
    body: ">>> Why do any of us waste valuable time developing fonts for any script?
      <<<\r\n\r\nask Mr. Aziz Mosftapha.\r\n\r\n\"Why do any of us waste valuable
      time developing fonts for any script?\" (some) do that to \"make\" money.. few
      are doing that for the sake of their passion.\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2007-06-01 15:16:27'
  created: '2007-06-01 14:55:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'm asking you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Hacen
      picture: 111610
    body: "... serious?\r\n\r\nregrettably, i dont waste time at all, most of my free
      time are spent to design Arabic fonts."
    created: '2007-06-01 15:43:13'
  created: '2007-06-01 15:27:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "You don't understand my question.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2007-06-01 15:51:28'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "1. Profess that I am not a professor, but about to get PHD.\r\n(PHD= Permanet
    Head damage).\r\n2. Recommend mentioning <a href=\"http://www.hacen.net\">Hacen</a>
    at <a href=\"http://typophile.com/user/13041\">your page</a>.\r\n3. Though ArabicTypsetting
    covers many of the scripts mentioned by John Hudson, it is still <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/20638?from=0&comments_per_page=333\">ArabicTypesetting</a>.\r\nPersian
    Gulf not Arabic, and Arabic Script is not Persian?!\r\n4. My love for Arabic +
    Arabs is immeasurable. Have been contributing to more than 20 sites. See the translation
    of this page into Arabic <a href=\"http://www.splart.net/forum/index.php?showtopic=11342\">here</a>.\r\n5.
    Dancers entertian Rulers and we are here to entertain Typophiles?!\r\n6. Hope
    you do not mind discussing Democracy in Type not Type in Democracy?!\r\n7. Do
    you know that the Iraqi Calligrapher was forced into writing the \r\nGlorious
    Quran in <a href=\"http://www.splart.net/forum/index.php?showtopic=16611\"> Saddam's
    blood</a>. Against the ABC teachings of Islam?!\r\n8. You are welcome to post
    off-topic here, but I am shaking the Cupful?!\r\n9. Regards + Flowers"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Hacen
      picture: 111610
    body: "1- Profess that i dont mean acadimic degrees when i say \"professor\",
      it's the same tactful word as all Arabs (Dancers) say.\r\n2- No bandwidth usage
      please.\r\n3- We look at the Gulf saying \"Arabian Gulf\" from our side, they
      say \"Persian Gulf\" but the script is still right-to-left.\r\n4- I know very
      well your contributions in those 20 sites sir.\r\n5- Rulers became already dancers,
      dont you know?\r\n6- If there's democracy in type, i vote for you as the Arabic
      type president (no ruler).\r\n7- Saddam's blood is not the case now. Iraqis'
      bloods.\r\n8- Mixing typography with dancing might be off-topic.. did i ..?\r\n9-
      Regards + Flowers + coffee (dont suck it all please). "
    created: '2007-06-01 17:19:46'
  created: '2007-06-01 16:23:34'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "25 April, 2006, Saad Abulhab said:\r\n.... when Arabic or any other script
    editing and production on computers \r\nrequires costly and technically sophisticated
    technologies we risk loosing \r\nusers, markets, global competitions, and a lot
    of unnecessary expenses.\r\n..... Arab petrol-dollars spent billions to ensure
    that letters like \u201CDal\u201D\r\nmust have an isolated, initial, medial, and
    more glyphs. Why?\r\n\r\nNow, <a href=\"http://www.winsoft.eu/products_solutions/WinSoft-Tasmeem.php\">made</a>
    so user-freindly and <a href=\"http://www.winsoft.eu/products_solutions/WinSoft-Tasmeem-buy.php\">
    so cheap</a> for the Arabs. Why not?\r\nWith Flowers to Hacen"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Hacen
      picture: 111610
    body: "Mr Aziz:\r\n\r\nThe \"billion dollars\" aftermath is not the case for now,
      we -as amateurs, not so many- aim at providing quality Arabic typefaces for
      low cost -rather free. We appreciate the appearance of \"Tasmeem\" from WinSoft,
      but take into consideration that this twelve-thousands dollar-cost software
      has nothing new to deliver to Arabic typography, dont turn around -you, the
      pros- with your \"OpenType\" type settings, there's much more coming:\r\n\r\nSAY
      GOODBYE TO THOSE \"ALLEGED\" IMPROVEMENTS FOR \"ARABIC\" (DANCE). Now we are
      working to deliver REAL typographic system not OTF nor TTF it's proudly HSF
      (Hacen Smart Fonts) which will stop this turning around and fooling \"Arabic\"
      users (dancers)..\r\n\r\nSEE IT SOON. "
    created: '2007-06-11 00:47:10'
  created: '2007-06-07 09:41:06'
- author:
    name: WinSoft Tasmeem
    picture: 113995
  body: "Dear Hacen,\r\n\r\nFollowing your comment I am taking the liberty to inform
    you that Tasmeem family now includes three product members with three different
    price. Each of them has been tailored to specific user group requirements. Tasmeem
    Limited Edition is dedicated to every customer who wishes to use Tasmeem fonts,
    Aridi ArtWorks, and open and print documents created by Tasmeem products. Tasmeem
    Creative Edition meets the expectations of designers who create advertisements,
    front pages, greeting and business cards. Tasmeem\u2122 Publisher Edition takes
    thing to the ultimate level. The features are dedicated to Publishing Houses.
    It offers professional tools to create sophisticated Arabic literary and academic
    books.\r\nMore information on www.tasmeem.eu.\r\nShould you require further information,
    do not hesitate to contact me.\r\nBest regards,\r\n\r\nWinSoft\r\nPress & Public
    relation department\r\ncontactpresse@winsoft.fr\r\nwww.winsoft.eu"
  created: '2008-01-16 14:30:20'
- author:
    name: miko02
  body: merci
  created: '2010-09-07 13:22:02'
- author:
    name: AzizMostafa
    picture: 111536
  body: "1. Post updated + a PDF file with Aziz Naskh attached.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/files/Naskh%20Aziz_0.pdf\r\n\r\n2.
    Miko02! Wrong Post? Or Language Barrier? \r\nWriting in Arabic or French  is possible
    here.\r\nI can catch what you write with the help of Google's tool:\r\nhttp://translate.google.com/?hl=en#fr|en\r\nAll
    the best with Flowers\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-09-08 10:36:01'
- author:
    name: khalid
    picture: 121506
  body: "> Is there a site discussing Type in Arabic?\r\n\r\nhttp://arabictype.wordpress.com\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2010-12-31 16:48:11'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "In looking up information about the Nastaliq style of Arabic script, I found
    the statement that it originated as a simplification of the previous Naksh style.
    And so the common Naksh fonts that work with only four forms of each letter indeed
    do not do it justice. Even the font shown here, with its ligatures, apparently
    is not doing everything that the Naksh writing style normally includes: in proper
    written Naksh, while the writing baseline is horizontal, and not diagonal as in
    Nastaliq, it can still vary in steps because not all letters will always join
    at the base.\r\n\r\nAs for Semitic languages and vowels - the story is complex.
    Basically, because the root of the word consists of consonants, while vowels alter
    the word grammatically, like suffixes in English, writing vowels as full letters
    instead of as an annotation is distracting. This is also true of ancient Egyptian,
    which is believed to be related to the Hamitic languages and perhaps the Semitic
    ones, but this classification is not certain. So vowels may be a bit less important,
    but also that their importance, as it may be, is of a different kind. (Of course,
    spoken Egyptian had vowels, or it could not have been spoken.)"
  created: '2011-01-01 12:40:01'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: Of course, I'm no expert on Arabic typography, given I can't even spell Naskh
    properly, but the issue I'm thinking of - "assimilation" rules - is covered in
    Thomas Milo's tutorial on Arabic typography, which is where I had seen it.
  created: '2011-01-01 19:38:35'
- author:
    name: khalid
    picture: 121506
  body: "@quadibloc: <cite>\"Thomas Milo's tutorial on Arabic typography\"</cite>\r\n\r\nNeed
    to see this tutorial. Grateful for the link."
  created: '2011-01-24 09:50:09'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Here is the legitimate link to the document:\r\n\r\n[[http://www.decotype.com/publications/unicode-tutorial.pdf]]\r\n\r\nI
    couldn't navigate to it on the DecoType site, but Google turned it up after initial
    searches gave me more information. When I first tried to search for it, all my
    results were sites that looked like they could be hosting pirated document files."
  created: '2011-01-24 22:02:05'
- author:
    name: khalid
    picture: 121506
  body: "Many thanks, John; this will be very useful. I came across a different set
    of documents when I tried to search for it myself. The document you reference
    is exactly what I need.\r\n\r\nUpon a quick read, I was surprised to find out
    how differently Thomas Milo has interpreted the very basic issue of the structure
    of the Arabic alphabet. I will try to read it more thoroughly, and might come
    back with a posting.\r\n"
  created: '2011-01-25 06:02:29'
- author:
    name: quadibloc
    picture: 118515
  body: "Incidentally, on [[http://www.tug.org/TUGboat/Contents/contents18-1.html|this
    page]], there is a link to an article about the complexities of even the simpler
    approach of typesetting Arabic in metal type without the refinements I've mentioned.\r\n\r\nDirect
    PDF link: [[http://www.tug.org/TUGboat/Articles/tb18-1/tb54arab.pdf]]\r\n\r\nThe
    same article, but with different formatting, is available from [[http://omega.enstb.org/yannis/|this
    page]] as item #40 in the numbered list of publications on that page.\r\n\r\nDirect
    PDF link: [[http://omega.enstb.org/yannis/pdf/ep96-arabic.pdf]]\r\n\r\nAlso, I'm
    sure that if Thomas Milo has made mistakes in his understanding of how Arabic
    is traditionally written, he will be most interested to hear of it. I think I
    accidentally came across his paper when searching for information related to Nastaliq.
    As there is an open-source Nastaliq font that just happens to be usable only in
    an obsolete Mac environment, taking its glyphs and making a new open-source Nastaliq
    font would seem to be a useful service that some Linux enthusiast might perform.
    The glyphs are there in the package separate from the font in its Mac-specific
    form; I am going to have to see if it's one that Fontforge is capable of reading."
  created: '2011-01-26 02:23:22'
- author:
    name: rahmi_rt
  body: "you can see my last works\r\n\r\nhttp://www.rtsoftpro.com/diger/fontlarimdan1.jpg\r\nhttp://www.rtsoftpro.com/diger/fontlarimdan2.jpg\r\nhttp://www.rtsoftpro.com/diger/fontlarimdan3.jpg"
  created: '2012-03-07 23:06:34'
date: '2006-04-19 05:15:57'
title: Unique+Dynamic Arabic  Font  / Unik+Dinamik Naskh

---
