---
author:
  name: orso2932
body: I keep reading and being told that [[Helvetica]] is a great typeface, but a
  day later I hear or read it is a terrible typeface. I want to start a debate. Why
  is Helvetica great or terrible and why?
comments:
- author:
    name: JonPhillips
  body: "It's a great <a href = \"http://www.helvetia.co.uk/\">place</a> to go skiing.\r\n\r\n__________________________________________________________\r\nNever
    go to bed with a woman you couldn't beat in a fight..."
  created: '2006-04-19 22:54:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: <a href="http://typographi.com/001009.php">Helvetica Meditations</a>
  created: '2006-04-19 23:22:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Does the fact that I think it should be called\r\nHelvomita give you a clue
    as to where I stand?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: londontype
      picture: 111325
    body: The R is criminal. Helvetica's deathgrip on the world of American commercial
      signage is impressive and depressing.
    created: '2006-04-20 04:14:29'
  created: '2006-04-19 23:36:03'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Helvetica is very unique in that it is so successful (commercially) that
    it has become reviled. One ingredient in the popular dislike is the fact that
    it was bundled with every personal computer since 1984, so we're all really tired
    of seeing it. It's like pancakes for breakfast, lunch, dinner, 7 days a week.
    Barf!\r\n\r\nOne other reason people hate it is that it's used for everything,
    including fine print, health warnings, wayfinding signage, expensive graphic identities,
    teeny print in artsy design books, logos, etc. etc. It really does not perform
    well in any of those settings. For any designer given adequate choices, Helvetica
    is really only good (by this I mean effective, attractive, functional) in a few
    settings. All the versions, from original metal right up to the Neue versions,
    are spaced for display use, which means they look like rotting hell at small sizes.
    \r\n\r\nHelvetica, spaced tightly the way it is, with its monoline strokes, ambiguous
    machine shapes, and awkward proportions, presents a very difficult situation for
    a reader. Essentially, at text sizes it falls apart (or should I say, clumps together).
    \r\n\r\nIn spite of its weaknesses, and you can see there are many, it is used
    everywhere by everyone for everything, when other typefaces, equally available,
    could do those jobs so much better. It's something of a thoughtless default, so
    you could also say that in addition to the neutral Swiss associations it carries,
    it now carries an association of mindlessness, emptiness, clone-y 80's generic
    blandness. You've heard the expression, \"To not make a choice, is to make a choice\"?
    Helvetica is to not make a choice. Helvetica is to do what is safe, to settle
    for something not really appropriate but generally accepted. Helvetica is to not
    care about typography. It's the hospital gown of typefaces. "
  created: '2006-04-19 23:55:18'
- author:
    name: Fisheye
    picture: 111178
  body: "Agreed. I don't think reasonable people hate Helvetica as much as they hate
    its misuse.\r\n\r\nHere's a question for the group. If not Helvetica, what <cite>should</cite>
    be the standard sans for the masses? Keep in mind that the masses will use it
    for text, display and everything in between."
  created: '2006-04-20 01:35:41'
- author:
    name: "\u2022Prakash Nair"
    picture: 111459
  body: Helvetica is one of those faces where it can look like crap by an un-trained
    designer or really beautiful with a trained designer. Its at that thin-line.
  created: '2006-04-20 01:35:56'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>If not Helvetica, what should be the standard sans for the masses?</em>\r\n\r\nYou
    mean some <em>other</em> sans serif face that can, after massive use and abuse,
    go on to carry \"an association of mindlessness, emptiness, clone-y 80\u2019s
    generic blandness\", too?\r\n\r\n;-D (Sorry, I couldn't help it.)"
  created: '2006-04-20 01:42:51'
- author:
    name: Martin LAllier
    picture: 110634
  body: "how about Velvetica? :)\r\n\r\nSeriously, I think Helvetica is a monotone
    typeface -- no expressivity at all - giving it a great potential for \u201CCautions\u201D
    and \u201CWarning\u201D on the back of your fridge. Overused, no real italics,
    no small caps, no oldstyle figures... and bland as a spiceless meal can be.\r\n\r\nI
    totally agree with Crossgrove's \u201CIt\u2019s something of a thoughtless default\u201D.
    Typographically unsophisticated/lazy people use it a lot - in this era of course,
    in the past it was a good choice because of limited alternates.\r\n\r\nMy potential
    alternates?\r\nFF Bau\r\nAkzidenz Grotesk (way older but still better)\r\nUnivers\r\nGotham\r\nFF
    Unit\r\nAkkurat\r\n...\r\n..."
  created: '2006-04-20 02:28:19'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>what should be the standard sans for the masses?</em>\r\n\r\nNothing."
  created: '2006-04-20 02:49:14'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>what should be the standard sans for the masses?\r\n\r\nIn the current
    state of computing, Microsoft has a lot of power to affect this for the electronic
    domain. It is now becoming more common for people to revile Arial. This isn't
    necessarily a bad thing, just a side effect of the fact that *something* has to
    be the default. \r\n\r\nSometimes I see that little foot on the 'a' when I see
    some sans-serif text and think \"That's interesting, they actually used Helvetica.\"\r\n\r\nNick's
    right though. "
  created: '2006-04-20 03:17:33'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>what should be the standard sans for the masses?\r\n\r\nI changed my
    mind. The correct, cryptic answer is: something from Lucas de Groot, <em>but he
    may not have designed it yet.</em>"
  created: '2006-04-20 03:28:04'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "> what should be the standard sans for the masses?\r\n\r\nThis one by Akira
    Kobayashi\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/kobayashi_axis1.gif]"
  created: '2006-04-20 03:53:09'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: Thanks, Nick, and canderson -- that was my point as well.
  children:
  - author:
      name: mpolino
    body: I happen to love Univers. Trade Gothic is nice as well. I agree with the
      comment about the fine line between a skilled designer and a rook. Very well
      designed but very overused.
    created: '2006-04-20 04:42:10'
  created: '2006-04-20 04:24:16'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>what should be the standard sans for the masses?\r\n\r\nI've changed
    my mind again. The standard sans for the masses should be the result of Akira
    Kobayashi/Luc de Groot sans-serif creation deathmatch. The result would look something
    like Frutiger, but be different in a way that I might never completely understand. "
  created: '2006-04-20 06:40:24'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: Franklin Gothic
  created: '2006-04-20 07:42:30'
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: "\u2014"
  created: '2006-04-20 12:23:15'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: For a long time in Britain, Gill Sans was the Sans for the Masses; and it
    fulfilled that function as well as any face could have done.
  created: '2006-04-20 14:20:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There was a time when makeing typefaces required years of work and propritary
    machines to output.  That time made peoples choices for type small and they made
    do.  Today we can have any type at almost any time.  There is no need for yet
    another generic brand face for Microsoft, Apple, and Adobe to bundle with everything
    on earth and make the default font.  There is a lot of Helvetica and Times around
    because most people don't venture beyond the default font in their word processor.
    We don't need to encourage them to keep doing that by coming up with another font
    to take Helvetica's place.  It is like having default food at the grocery store,
    you walk in and get several brown paper bags full of what Safeway has as default
    food--sounds like fun huh?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-20 14:24:40'
- author:
    name: kalli
  body: "Let's talk about some nice work done with helvetica the shift-worker of all
    types like someone said...\r\n\r\nI really like the way bmw use it...\r\n\r\nHelvetica
    is great because you have a great extended, a great condensed and many other diffrent
    versions from ultra black to thin. They all have a strong personality. Thank you
    Max ;)"
  created: '2006-04-20 22:36:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There are plenty of extended superfamilies of faces out there besides Helvetica.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-20 22:39:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Nick,\r\nI especially like \"Danger of Death\" :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-20 22:41:27'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Nick has it: Franklin Gothic, and its ilk, really deserve the kind of attention
    that Helvetica has had. In fact, Franklin Gothic has been there all the time,
    unobtrusively performing, in many more settings than Helvetica, for more decades.
    It really deserves to be considered a classic, and a standard. \r\n\r\nOne thing
    that Helvetica has accomplished that is noteworthy: It survived all the technological
    transitions from its original format (hot metal). I propose that it was able to
    survive through all that technological degradation BECAUSE of its coarse, wide,
    klunky shapes and limited character set. Who is pining away for Helvetica Oldstyle
    Figures? Uh Oh, Type Battle #12?......\r\n\r\nThe grotesques it was based on have
    only recently been given a new appreciation, other contemporary designs (most
    notably the superior Univers) have not kept their appeal over the same period,
    and frankly, the design standards for type dropped so low that by the late 80's
    nobody even knew about the difference between text type and display type. ITC
    with its buttery ranges of advertising faces fed this ambiguity, so that by simply
    sitting in one place, not changing, Helvetica found its perfect environment. Now
    that we know better, we can make better choices of type for books, signage, logos,
    etc. and we have higher standards (I hope). \r\n\r\nLike Gill Sans, which was
    indeed superior in its day, Helvetica has been surpassed repeatedly by more subtle,
    useful, approachable designs, better suited to the media and technology of today,
    and we ought to recognize the improvements and choices that we can now enjoy.
    More to the point (is Helvetica saintly or evil?), we ought to be able to recognize
    a typeface's strengths and weaknesses, and work with them accordingly. If a typeface
    can't do what we want it to do, we simply choose a different one (and license
    it fully from the original foundry!). "
  created: '2006-04-21 00:00:41'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "<em>the shift-worker of all types</em>\r\n\r\nNice. Reminds me of when the
    authors of <em>Stop Stealing Sheep...</em> talk about \"real workhorse typefaces\".\r\n\r\n<em>...we
    ought to be able to recognize a typeface\u2019s strengths and weaknesses, and
    work with them accordingly. If a typeface can\u2019t do what we want it to do,
    we simply choose a different one (and license it fully from the original foundry!).</em>\r\n\r\nWords
    of design wisdom, Carl!\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 04:29:14'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "<cite>For any designer given adequate choices, Helvetica is really only good
    (by this I mean effective, attractive, functional) in a few settings.</cite>\r\n\r\nDoesn't
    this count for ALL typefaces?\r\n\r\nWe, as designers, can't expect non-designers
    to have an opinion on typography. Most  of \"them\" will make amateur choices,
    and I don't blame them. Why shouldn't they? For them, it works. And since more
    and more of the visual communication that surrounds us is made by non-designers,
    it will look accordingly. I don't enjoy seeing helvetica everywhere i look, but
    what con you do? And what's more, I find my self sick of typefaces overused by
    \"real\" designers more often than of the overuse of Helvetica. For the record;
    I have only managed to use Helvetica one time. And I don't like Gill sans very
    much either.  "
  created: '2006-04-21 09:08:14'
- author:
    name: pstanley
  body: "Helvetica, for me, is truly a mystery. It's not just that it is used in so
    many situations where it is positively inappropriate. What popular type is not?
    It's rather that there is to my mind no situation at all ever in which some other
    face would not look and perform <em>better</em>. At best Helvetica is OK. Most
    of the time it is ... not so OK.\r\n\r\nWith most other commonly used typefaces
    I don't much like--even over-used ones like Gill and Times, even Bookman and Avant
    Garde--I come across occasional examples where I think, \"Hell, yes. Normally
    not keen on [xxx] but for once it looks perfect.\" But the only use for which
    Helvetica seems indispensable is to set samples of Helvetica.\r\n\r\nI experience
    the extraordinary devotion some people have to Helvetica rather in the way that
    I think about fetishes that I do not share. I <em>know</em> some people get really
    excited about dressing up as babies, or sniffing used trainers, or whatever, but
    I just don't \"get\" it. If people want to dribble over Helvetica, that's fine.
    I just wish they would do it where I don't have to watch.\r\n\r\n(Of course I
    have my own special private typofetishes ...)"
  created: '2006-04-21 13:52:43'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "Ok, so sue me, Helvetica-Haters: I used this at the top of the left column
    of a two-column worksheet I did for a local workshop. Bear in mind, I'm not a
    graphic designer, nor a type designer. I just wanted to experiment with Helvetica
    by using (a) the narrow version, which I think  is more interesting than the regular,
    and (b) different colors and weights. There's some line spacing I don't like (spread
    out above my name, blocked below), but frankly I think it works as an example
    of Helvetica Neue Condensed used fairly appropriately. Tell me why it doesn't!
    :-)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DesigningDocs.png]"
  children:
  - author:
      name: caboume
      picture: 110905
    body: "This will probably put me in the minority but...\r\n\r\nHelvetica should
      not be hated.\r\n\r\nSome background:\r\n\r\n- It was designed by Max Miedinger
      and Edouard Hoffman\r\nin trying to better Akzidenz Grotesk...\r\n\r\n- Large
      x-height\r\n\r\n- Its forms were refined for clearer legibility and neutrality...\r\n\r\nHelvetica
      was intended to provide a neutral tone in order to\r\nlet the content speak,
      not the other way around. It was designed\r\nbased on a philosophy \u2013 Late
      Modernism/ \"International Style\"\r\n\r\nSuch philosophy may not be appropriate
      in every circumstance,\r\nbut in the right setting, typefaces such as AK-G,
      Helvetica, Univers,\r\nstill hold up.\r\n\r\nPeople hate the big H, but I suspect
      it has less to do with\r\nformalities than subjective bias.\r\n\r\nAlso keep
      in mind, these \"sterile\" faces like Helvetica and\r\nUnivers were designed
      by the top designers of their generation,\r\nwhy should we be so arrogant to
      dismiss their work without\r\nappreciating the context in which it was produced?\r\n\r\np.s.
      The piece above in the previous post, proves that\r\nthe hatred of H is unjustified."
    created: '2006-04-21 18:00:18'
  created: '2006-04-21 16:42:36'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I'm partial to the straight leg on the R in fonts like Trade Gothic, some
    weights of Akzidenz Grotesk, Franklin Gothic.\r\n\r\nHelvetica was overused enough
    before the Mac/PC revolution but now you can't get away from it. I do like the
    very thin weights and the condensed tho. \r\n\r\nWhat do y'all think of it's serif
    counterpart, the dreaded Times Roman???"
  created: '2006-04-21 18:30:25'
- author:
    name: Nick Job
    picture: 110778
  body: The swisser the better.
  created: '2006-04-21 19:25:38'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "People already pointed out that Helvetica isn't hated for its self, but because
    it is overexposed. It is successful in being neutral, which is why it was selected
    to be included in the base PC font set. Jason's question recognizes that people
    do feel strongly about Helvetica, but it's not necessary or instructive to simply
    cheer or boo. Hate is too strong a word.\r\n\r\nI do not \"hate\" Helvetica, of
    course it's a giant in graphic design of the 20th century. But Univers took the
    same 19th-century Grotesk style and visibly evolved it into the 20th century,
    taming some of its more awkward proportions and making it even more useful. Look
    at the subtle shapes and contrast of Univers compared to Helvetica. Even more,
    look at how well Univers is spaced, compared to Helvetica.\r\n\r\nHelvetica was
    essentially a very complete cleanup of an extended family, or even category of
    typeface that type manufacturers had collected over previous decades. Helvetica
    systematized and sterilized the Grotesk style, same as Univers, but it didn't
    go any further. It took the style in a direction away from the proportions (which
    Ak-G still has) which facilitate reading, and eliminated the flavor, without doing
    anything to liven it up for the new technology or the new century. So while I
    appreciate Helvetica for what it can do, and for its flawless regularity and smoothness,
    I don't feel it's an appropriate typeface for many settings. It may be neutral,
    but it isn't a book face, or distinctive for logos, or readable on the highway
    or in bad lighting, etc. etc. "
  created: '2006-04-21 20:28:20'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> People already pointed out that Helvetica isn\u2019t\r\n> hated for its
    self, but because it is overexposed.\r\n\r\nWell, there can be more than one reason.
    \ :-)\r\nMy own main reason is its sickly proportions and spacing.\r\nIn fact
    I don't mind over-use (well, maybe its fallout, but\r\nI'm not big on envy). Haas
    Unica, now that's acceptable.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 20:31:34'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "one more thing about Franklin Gothic:\r\n\r\n\u2026a thought i had one night
    when i was having drinks with people who would never appreciate or begin to understand
    this comparison:\r\n\r\nif Helvetica were Vodka, Franklin Gothic would be Gin.
    they are both pretty neutral, but the FG/Gin has a bit more flavor.\r\n\r\ni'm
    definitely a Gin man\u2026\r\n; )\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 20:34:26'
- author:
    name: caboume
    picture: 110905
  body: "crossgrove,\r\n\r\nWhen you put it like that, I'm in 100% agreement.\r\n\r\nHaving
    agreed Univers is more refined and versatile than\r\nHelvetica, I wonder why it
    never surpassed the big H in fame..\r\n\r\nBtw CG, if you say Helvetica wouldn't
    do well for signage,\r\nwhat faces would you recommend?"
  created: '2006-04-21 21:02:58'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "I think specifically wayfinding signage and highway or traffic signage need
    type with more clear, unambiguous shapes than Helvetica. Lots of retail types
    do that now, and there are even some serif or semi-serif typefaces I would recommend
    for that. I've seen a reasonably nice campus signage system at a university that
    used Helvetica, so I don't think it's bad for all signage. But if legibility,
    or legibility at speed, or clarity is desired, choose something designed for the
    purpose like Avance, Albertus, Auto, Amasis, Avenir, Amplitude, Uh.... That's
    just the A's. \r\n\r\nI guess this indicates what I'm saying: There are thousands
    of typefaces out there. If you're interested enough, do some exploring. For those
    who just want recommendations, maybe we need to add some sections to the wiki
    for lists of typefaces appropriate for specific uses. I know we've discussed small
    sizes, highway signs, newspapers, and low-res uses, shalle we start a list of
    lists? "
  created: '2006-04-21 22:25:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> maybe we need to add some sections to the wiki for\r\n> lists of typefaces
    appropriate for specific uses.\r\n\r\nSure, but I have a better idea:\r\nHave
    a type choice \"thesaurus\" where people\r\nrecommend alternatives to ubiquitous
    fonts!\r\nIn fact I've noticed a lot of requests for \"kinda\r\nlike such-and-such\"
    font suggestions. Just one\r\nwiki \"rule\" on this one: you can't recommend\r\none
    of your own.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 22:39:00'
- author:
    name: crossgrove
    picture: 110130
  body: "Let's do both. Type Thesaurus is inspired. But for specific uses where there's
    no ubiquitous face, it's just recommendations (and maybe explanations). For instance,
    there's no ubiquitous face for very small text. Conversely, Helvetica is ubiquitous,
    but not [only] for a specific use. \r\n\r\nAw hell, I can't recommend my own?
    \ ForGET it!!  I'm not playin'!!!\r\n\r\n;D"
  created: '2006-04-22 01:51:59'
date: '2006-04-19 22:44:55'
node_type: forum
title: Helvetica is the Greatest or Not

---
