---
author:
  name: dezcom
  picture: 109959
body: "My first question is--in all [[Latin]] script languages, is the Q always followed
  by a U?\r\nIf this is so, then my second question is--why is there not a single
  QU [[glyph]]?\r\nMy third question--why would we not at least have a qu [[ligature]]
  as a normal part of a font?\r\nThere is no [[hyphenation]] between q and u anyway
  so that does not figure in. Would it just be quaint or quizical to quiery quietly
  or do we need a poll?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
comments:
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Show us what you think it should be? I find the st ligature to be distracting
    (going from memory here) and so will rarely use it. I wonder if the qu lig wouldn't
    be moreso?
  created: '2006-04-20 19:12:51'
- author:
    name: fontime
    picture: 110323
  body: "Dezcom:\r\n\r\nToday, in Argentina some fonts are designed with \"qu\" Ligature.\r\nFontana
    ND and Andralis designed by Rub\xE9n Fontna are examples about this.\r\n\r\nEduardo"
  created: '2006-04-20 19:18:17'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>why is there not a single QU glyph?</em>\r\n\r\nPerhaps because the type
    designer knows what follows the q, so can design it accordingly.\r\nLigatures
    are for where not every character combination is good, but if there's only one
    character combination..."
  created: '2006-04-20 19:22:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "This is just a kerning job and needs work to de-mu-ify it but it should start
    the conversation anyway.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quq.png]"
  created: '2006-04-20 19:24:00'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Eduardo,\r\nDo you have examples of those?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: fontime
      picture: 110323
    body: "In few minutes send you some examples.\r\n\r\nEduardo"
    created: '2006-04-20 19:33:23'
  created: '2006-04-20 19:25:33'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: P22 Underground has a nice one. It's not surprising that  the calligrapher
    Johnston included one in his original railway alphabet. I agree that the qu ligature
    is a nice touch, but probably not for all fonts.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mt.gif]
  created: '2006-04-20 19:33:52'
- author:
    name: moyogo
    picture: 111086
  body: "This looks like QJ and qi \u2012 q\u0279 or q\u0131 would be even closer
    but not likely. Of course these don't occur in \"commercial\" languages so the
    confusion is not very probable."
  created: '2006-04-20 19:35:38'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Iraq Iraqi NASDAQ
  created: '2006-04-20 19:38:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Even \"just\" in English there are borrowed words (mostly from Arabic) where
    the \"q\" is not followed by a \"u\". But it's usually an \"a\", and very rarely
    a letter with a descender. Check out \"Making the Alphabet Dance\" by R Eckler
    for a list of words that contain every combination of two letters!\r\n\r\nBTW,
    metal fonts used to offer single sorts of \"Qu\", but\r\nthat's because <cite>their</cite>
    kerns were liable to break off!  :-)\r\n\r\n> Ligatures are for where not every
    character combination is good\r\n\r\nIn my talk at the Thessaloniki conference
    in 2004\r\nI tried to show that ligatures run deeper than that,\r\nand I think
    they can run far deeper still. In fact a\r\nligated \"qu\" can arguably help reading.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 19:42:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The lig I posted was certainly not acceptable.  Here is another quick and
    crude attempt which is better but still not there.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quq2.png]"
  created: '2006-04-20 19:54:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Denis is quite right in his observation.  At the moment, I am more thinking
    of a discussion about the concept rather than my poor execution.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-20 19:57:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Since there are occurances where q is not followed by u, we cannot simply
    create a qu ligature and rename it \"q\" but perhaps it is still of value as a
    ligature?\r\n\r\nHrant, do you have any supporting data to show that ligatures
    of any kind increase raedability?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-20 20:02:22'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Brad has crowned Miss Tiffany Queen of fonts. That is even more amusing given
    that Tiffany and I had a cooperative venture involving the playing card queen
    a while ago :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-20 20:07:38'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: :^o I'm so NOT the queen. Eek!
  created: '2006-04-20 20:28:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Here is another try at it:\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/quq3.png]"
  created: '2006-04-20 20:40:37'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> do you have any supporting data\r\n\r\nNope. Just like there's no data
    proving that serif fonts\r\nhave higher nominal readability, but no decent designer\r\nwill
    set a long book in a sans.\r\n\r\nThis idea stems from the belief that divergence
    (at least when\r\nproperly controlled) helps our heuristic reading mechanism\r\nextract
    more meaning faster. Really, humans can handle a lot\r\nmore than 26 x 2 (+ odds
    & ends) symbols. If they couldn't,\r\nthe Chinese wouldn't be about to womp us.
    \ :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-20 20:57:14'
- author:
    name: londontype
    picture: 111325
  body: Miss T. - sorry, it was just to add interest, sorta rhymed with Mary Queen
    of Scots. But we could take a poll...
  created: '2006-04-20 20:57:16'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "not to forget about such essentials as greenlandic city-names:\r\nIttoqqortoormiit
    or Qaanaaq or Qeqertarsuaq"
  created: '2006-04-20 22:46:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Those are really cool names Sebilar! I wish I had a T-shirt from Ittoqqortoormiit.
    I would love to see the faces on people as they try to read it and wonder what
    kind of nut I am:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-20 23:33:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I could see anopther T-shirt slogan:\r\n\r\n\"You have to be cool to be from
    Qeqertarsuaq\"\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-20 23:36:23'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "what would be ultimately cool is to print the declaration of human rights
    in greenlandic on a t-shirt (would need front and back i guess):\r\n\r\nhttp://www.unhchr.ch/udhr/lang/esg.htm"
  created: '2006-04-21 00:20:22'
- author:
    name: raph
    picture: 109741
  body: Thaat's aas maannyy doouubblle letterrs aas Ii've seen in a loonngg tiime.
    But would the typophile version use the modern 'q' orthography or a kgreenlandic?
  created: '2006-04-21 01:09:59'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: <a href="http://www.hasbro.com/scrabble/pl/page.QwithoutU/dn/home.cfm">Q without
    U</a> + <a href="http://www.thewordlist.com/myPHPnuke/html/qnou.php">more</a>
  created: '2006-04-21 01:14:50'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There are an awful lot of \"plurals of...\" in that list Claes :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-21 01:23:24'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: "my attempt(s) at a qu-ligature:\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/qu-ligature.png]"
  created: '2006-04-21 01:48:15'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "> But would the typophile version use the modern \u2018q\u2019 orthography
    or a kgreenlandic?\r\n\r\nfor sure there would be an opentype alternative set
    :)"
  created: '2006-04-21 15:23:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Claes,\r\nSome of those examples look like butt cheeks:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: claes
      picture: 111435
    body: "<cite>Claes,</cite>\r\n<cite>Some of those examples look like butt cheeks:-)</cite>\r\n\r\nand
      yours dont?! d:\r\n\r\n\r\nthis would be a good Type Battle."
    created: '2006-04-21 22:16:48'
  created: '2006-04-21 16:20:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"for sure there would be an opentype alternative set :)\"\r\n\r\nSebilar,
    I am sure it would be a contextual substitution: \r\nif the temperature is below
    zero, sub Greenlandic:-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-21 16:23:26'
- author:
    name: fontime
    picture: 110323
  body: "Hi:\r\n\r\nThe examples of \"QU and qu\" ligatures of Andralis - Designed
    by Rub\xE9n Fontana / Argentina -\r\n\r\net\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/qu_min_ligature.png][img:sites/default/files/old-images/QU_ligature.png]"
  created: '2006-04-21 16:37:56'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Eduardo, I think the lowercase works well but am a bit unsure of the
    uppercase.  Quite a nice face though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-21 16:41:57'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "The UC might work better if the \"U\" were stemmed.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 16:58:30'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I was going to say that obviously none of you play scrabble but then I saw
    Claes's link. Any dedicated scrabble player knows those words.\r\n\r\nTiffany
    may be the Queen but I am a Goddess ;-)\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typophile.com/node/9573"
  created: '2006-04-21 18:24:59'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tiff and Patty are queens and goddesses.  I am just a geezer :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-21 18:38:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Devi Fabricant, you must have been the inspiration\r\nfor this: http://www.alphabetvsgoddess.com/
    _\r\n(Hey, it applies to that other thread too!)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 18:59:28'
- author:
    name: fcro
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Untitled-1 c\xF3pia.jpg]"
  created: '2006-04-22 00:14:21'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "I could be wrong, but \"why not\" is: you're merging two major vertical strokes.
    Does that happen in other (Latin) ligatures? Like a ligament, ligatures  usually
    are fairly minimal as, um, \"thingies,\" but serve an important function in holding
    two larger \"thingies\" together. So that's why fl, ffl, fi, etc., get ligatured
    -- it's across minor areas of horizontal space where they're almost already touching
    anyway? q and u, to be properly ligaturized, would just maybe join the q's top
    right serif and the u's top left. Right?\r\n\r\nExceptions: archaisms like AE
    (&#198;)and OE (&#338;), where the two letters are fused along long stretches
    of vertical stroke. I notice, though, that they're not diphthongs-- you don't
    say \"Ay-Ee-sopp,\" but \"Ay-sop.\" Not \"Oh-ee-di-puss\" but \"Eh-di-puss.\"
    That's probably relevant.\r\n\r\nSeems like the \"why not\" answer has formal/perceptual,
    historical, and phonological roots. Not to say it isn't worth trying, though.
    But if we're gonna start making lig's along big strokes, then we could conceivably
    have them for every possible pair of letters. "
  created: '2006-04-22 03:48:59'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Most of the time you see ligatures (except fi,fl etc) used with serif fonts.
    Since the lowercase q in a sans generally has no hook on the tail it's an uncomfortable
    fit with the u. I'm not a font designer but there could be something nice done
    with a qu lig using a serif or a serif italic. Anyone?
  created: '2006-04-22 19:32:53'
- author:
    name: "Kellie Str\xF8m"
    picture: 111448
  body: "If the letters don't actually touch, can it still be called a ligature?\r\nRecently
    I was thinking a special QU character might be handy when using all caps to give
    space to tuck up the tail... a rough mock-up, or muck-up!\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/ququeen.jpg]"
  created: '2006-04-23 00:47:26'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "My understanding is that a ligature requires touching. Hence the root in
    Latin \"ligare\": \"to bind.\" Otherwise you're just talking about tight kerning.
    Kerned pairs involve various overshoots and undershoots, like the QU above. \r\n\r\nKerning
    is all about bringing two letters just close enough that the positive and negative
    space across the pair looks balanced. The more kerned pairs (where appropriate),
    the more balanced a font will look along the line.(Although... Adobe can do its
    own metrics (\"optical\"), but I have yet to test a kerned-pair-less font with
    it...)\r\n\r\nNotice that your Q and U would look odd if the Q was spaced further
    out to the left. There'd be this big white space between the two. Then again,
    the tight kerning only makes sense because of the Q's tail and the U being an
    oddball small size (small cap, lowercase, or just it's own thing).\r\n\r\nSo what
    you have above is a kerned pair that is more than the sum of its parts. But not
    a ligature! Still... if you joined the right end of the Q's tail to the end of
    the right side stroke of the U, then you'd have a ligature that doesn't fuse the
    letters in a bad way. \r\n\r\nBy the way, check out newspaper headlines-- they're
    often so tightly tracked that you get damn near ligatures across letters, but
    not intentionally."
  created: '2006-04-23 03:25:15'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "Oh, and the \"st\" ligature sometimes look distracting, I'm betting, because
    the modern \"s\" doesn't appear to have been used as the basis for the ligature,
    but rather the \"f\"-ish looking \"s\" of the 18th c. and earlier. The old \"ft\"-looking
    version invites that ligature much more readily than the modern \"st.\" So the
    funky, oddball-looking st lig is probably a modern contrivance. <a href=\"http://www.lib.umich.edu/tcp/docs/errors/we227.009.gif\">See
    this example of the old version.</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-23 03:45:03'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> a ligature requires touching.\r\n\r\nAh, but what about the white?...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-23 07:09:27'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Some hot metal faces had Qu cast as one piece to accommodate long tails.
    I think that Kellie's sample does qualify as a ligature, after all to create it
    in Fontlab one would name it as an optional ligature (I think, I'm still using
    Fontographer) and some fi ligatures aren't actually joined, Gill Sans for example.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-23 10:44:47'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Some hot metal faces had Qu cast as one piece to accommodate long tails.\r\n\r\nAnd
    those were called logotypes. The thing is, when you\r\nthink about it, aren't
    those in fact ligatures, in a way?\r\n\r\nFor a great example of how the blacks
    don't have to touch\r\nfor there to be a ligature, look at the descender area
    of the\r\nsuperb \"gy\" in Mrs Eaves Italic. Talk about foreplay...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.myfonts.com/fonts/emigre/mrs-eaves/just-lig-italic/win-t1/275141/character/006E/CP2/1/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-23 11:20:25'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>The thing is, when you think about it, aren\u2019t those in fact ligatures,
    in a way?</em>\r\n\r\nExactly\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-23 11:57:13'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "Qu, sure. Ligated lowercase does better to maintain all the parts and spaces.
    ff, fi, fl, ffl, ffi, ft, st, cr, rt, ck, and all the others I know, are successful
    for this reason?\r\n\r\n\"Kerning is all about bringing two letters just close
    enough that the positive and negative space across the pair looks balanced.\"\r\n\r\nKerning
    is about bringing two letters close enough that the positive and negative space
    within the pair looks balanced among the rest of the text...\r\n\r\nThat is to
    say, you can kern an LT to look perfect until its part of ALTITUDE, at which point,
    since you cannot get all the space you want out of the AL pair, LT might too tight."
  created: '2006-04-23 12:59:58'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: ">Kerning is about bringing two letters close enough that the positive and
    negative space within the pair looks balanced among the rest of the text\u2026\r\n\r\nI
    agree but just wasn't clear enough.\r\n\r\nIn fact, I think it's an engineering
    marvel (but sometimes a problem!), that pairs can be formed <em>in isolation</em>
    and yet still serve the larger context of the line, paragraph, etc. Although,
    again, here Adobe's InDesign comes into play: I am guessing that Adobe's \"optical\"
    metrics, which substitute for the fonts built-in metrics, actually kern pairs
    in terms of the whole paragraph's layout, since the paragraph is the unit Adobe
    uses for tracking, kerning, hyphenation, etc.\r\n\r\nAs for this matter of \"hey,
    maybe this QU can be a ligature!\" I don't see the grey area (or white space,
    to be more accurate?) Hrant and others seem to be exploiting. I mean, of course
    negative space (if \"white\" under normal circumstances) is important. But let's
    not play silly semantic games for a moment: if the term \"ligature\" is gonna
    have any usefulness, it needs to refer to something specific. And I'm suggesting
    that it refers <em>not</em> to the pair of letters that are designed in one piece,
    and/or that may have been joined as one piece in metal, and/or that come as one
    glyph in modern fonts, but either (a) to the pair when joined by a specific <em>chunk
    of stuff</em> (when the letters are black, the stuff is black), or (b) the to
    chunk of stuff itself.\r\n\r\nAnyway, that's my own sense of the term <em>ligature</em>.
    Otherwise, you just have pairs (or larger sets) of glyphs that happen to be real
    close together and happen to sometimes appear as a unit in various systems."
  created: '2006-04-23 13:51:19'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "<em>And I\u2019m suggesting that it refers not to the pair of letters that
    are designed in one piece, and/or that may have been joined as one piece in metal,
    and/or that come as one glyph in modern fonts, but either (a) to the pair when
    joined by a specific chunk of stuff (when the letters are black, the stuff is
    black), or (b) the to chunk of stuff itself.</em>\r\n\r\nIf we accept that the
    fi ligature is a ligature, one cannot then say that because a particular font,
    that has an altered character to form fi but doesn't join, doesn't have an fi
    ligature.\r\nI would say that the alteration of a character when it encounters
    another specific character defines the ligature and that would include what the
    type designer considers the correct or optimum white/negative space, if neither
    character were altered then it would be a kerning pair. I suppose you could subdefine
    ligature as open or closed like a counter if you need that degree of specificity,
    however I don't see the benefit.\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-23 14:41:36'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> if the term \u201Cligature\u201D is gonna have any usefulness,\r\n> it
    needs to refer to something specific.\r\n\r\nI agree. But instead of the black,
    what about notan?\r\n\r\nI think Tim's definition ideas are very good.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-23 15:20:35'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Tim, I understand what you're saying about open and closed glyph-combinations,
    but it seems to me that \"ligature\" should refer to the glyphs being joined.\r\n\r\nHrant,
    the notan created here in the t-y combination that uses the alternate \"t\" is
    obviously an important principle, but as the idea is a deliberate NOT joining,
    it just seems too much of a stretch to call it \"ligature\". \r\n\r\nLinotype
    traditionally referred to two letters cast together as a \"logotype\", whether
    or not the letters involved were non-touching standard forms, or made into a special
    modified shape.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/toetc.jpg]"
  created: '2006-04-23 21:25:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201Cligature\u201D should refer to the glyphs being joined.\r\n\r\nMaybe
    you're right. But then we should find a term for the non-touching ones...\r\nOr
    we could use \"ligature\" with a different qualifier for each kind; or maybe use\r\n\"ligature\"
    to mean the touching ones, and \"{something} ligature\" for the nons.\r\n\r\n>
    two letters cast together as a \u201Clogotype\u201D\r\n\r\nOr sometimes more than
    two even (but maybe not in Linotype's case).\r\n\r\nIn fact an entire printing
    technology venture was launched by one\r\nof the founders of The Times newspaper
    involving casting as much\r\nas possible on whole sorts. The point was to save
    costs during compo-\r\nsition (and distribution), and I think it could have worked,
    except\r\nthen the printer's guild decided to change their charging scheme\r\nfrom
    per-time or per-sort to per-letter... Sometimes, some people\r\nmake money off
    of inefficiency.  :-/\r\n\r\nAnd there was a similar effort in France, where it
    was called \"polytypie\":\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/polytypie.gif]\r\n\r\nIf
    I remember correctly it was carried out (or at\r\nleast attempted) by one of the
    Didot brothers.\r\n\r\n> or made into a special modified shape.\r\n\r\nYes, that's
    a good point.\r\nOn the other hand, one could say that the availability\r\nof
    logotyping allowed letters to be more as a designer\r\nwould have liked (such
    as with the tail of the \"Q\"),\r\nsince potential damage to sorts was alleviated.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-23 22:11:50'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "Let's forget the term \"ligature\" for a moment and look at the various conditions
    relative to the individual glyph's nominal metrics, and controlling for tracking
    (i.e., track it tightly enough and they'll touch, so let's assume standard tracking):\r\n\r\n1.
    Positioning changed\r\n2. Shape(s) changed\r\n3. Touching\r\n\r\nSeems like there's
    no point belaboring the term \"ligature,\" if we can come up with a vocabulary
    for all seven permutations:\r\n\r\n1 alone: position changed but no change of
    shape, and not touching (i.e., \"raw\" kerning)\r\n\r\n2 alone: could happen anywhere,
    but if shape <em>alone</em> is the condition, then spacing along the line may
    not really be at issue at all\r\n\r\n3 alone: hard to imagine except in conditions
    of extremely tight tracking but no other alterations (or when kerning brings it
    about)\r\n\r\n1&2: this might be like the \"notan\" example above-- no touching,
    but a  stroke may be altered to improve balance\r\n\r\n1&3: probably most examples
    of ligature\r\n\r\n2&3: that wacky, contrived \"st\" ligature, perhaps, and perhaps
    fl and ffl, depending on tracking (\"touching\" <em>without</em> kerning would
    entail <em>adding</em> some stroke that wasn't there before, like the little arc
    that binds the lower-case s to the t in the st lig)\r\n\r\n1, 2, & 3: all hell
    can break loose! \r\n\r\n- Jay"
  created: '2006-04-24 00:39:58'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"hat has an altered character to form fi but doesn\u2019t join, doesn\u2019t
    have an fi ligature\"\r\n\r\nI would. I mean, there are lots of fonts that have
    \u2014fi glyphs\u2014, and some that have \u2014fi ligature glyphs\u2014"
  created: '2006-04-24 15:17:06'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I'd say it depends on what's done to the constituents. If the \"f\" and \"i\"
    are just slapped together (which I've seen done, I think by Unger, or was it Zapf)
    and at the default spacing (probably simply because software expects something
    there) then that's not a ligature. But if the shape, or really even the spacing,
    of one or both has changed, then there's <cite>something</cite> going on, and
    it's useful to have a term for it; and since the thing that's going on is almost
    certainly related to the notan relationship (implying some \"linking\" in/of the
    white) then maybe an extension of the term \"ligature\" is best.\r\n\r\nBTW, remember
    Legato (and its name!) which was designed to ligate the whites.\r\n\r\n--------\r\n\r\nToday,
    learn about the Armenian Genocide:\r\nhttp://www.armenian-genocide.org/genocidefaq.html\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-24 16:27:05'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "in the age of OpenType, i believe any alphabetic glyph composed of two or
    more alphabetic glyphs is considered a ligature. (Correct me if i'm wrong)\r\n\r\nactually,
    the <a href=\"http://www.microsoft.com/typography/OpenType%20Dev/standard/intro.mspx\">OpenType
    Spec</a> defines a ligature as \"A combination of glyphs that join to form a single
    glyph. It is up to the font designer to create the ligatures as he deems best
    for the font he is working with.\""
  created: '2006-04-24 20:30:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "There isn't that much to be gained by having absolute supreme court votes
    on what is a lig and what is not. To me a ligature is any glyph the designer defines
    in the liga feature that replaces 2 or more other glyphs. Anything beyond that
    may be just a fun academic excursive for those who wish to indulge.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-25 02:07:15'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Today, learn about the Armenian Genocide</em>\r\n\r\nCanada recognizes
    the genocide:\r\nhttp://www.armembassycanada.ca/embassy//genocide%20recognized.html"
  created: '2006-04-25 03:53:23'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Yes, thank you.\r\nAnd it is such differences with the US that I hope\r\nCanadians
    cherish more than I do on their behalf.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 04:16:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: I was talking with some friends about it today, and the consensus was that
    the EU should put pressure on Turkey re. this issue, as a condition of entry.
    I doubt if this is an original idea, but hopefully if it has surfaced in our neck
    of the woods it carries some weight elsewhere.
  created: '2006-04-25 05:10:23'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "<em>To me a ligature is any glyph the designer defines in the liga feature
    that replaces 2 or more other glyphs. Anything beyond that may be just a fun academic
    excursive for those who wish to indulge.</em>\r\n\r\nAwww, c'mon! Indulge! Seriously,
    though. I only would want to play these \"academic\" games in order to clarify
    my own thinking about type. I agree that it's silly to try to establish, once-and-for-all,
    precisly what word X refers to and what it doesn't. But I see it the other way
    around-- the more we wonder about what it could refer to and maybe what it shouldn't,
    the more the we can question what we've long supposed the term to \"mean,\" and
    thereby, the more we can question our own assumptions and understandings. That's
    where I'm coming from, anyway.\r\n\r\nSome really dig this term \"notan,\" for
    example. Well, what in the hell is it? If I say, \"notan\" is \"not tan,\" somebody's
    gonna bark that's wrong. And then we get to wondering what the term <em>is</em>
    about, which leads to (we hope) more interesting ideas about type than we'd previously
    had."
  created: '2006-04-25 11:44:07'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I agree with Paul and Chris, that for most uses and for clarity it is probably
    more productive to call combinations of characters in a font \u2013 ligatures,
    however I suppose you could go on to subdivide them into positive and negative
    ligatures (my view is that by providing more and more subdivisions one actually
    works against clarity, more true of typeface classification).\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-25 11:49:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"I only would want to play these \u201Cacademic\u201D games in order to
    clarify my own thinking about type.\"\r\n\r\nI am not saying it is not a worthy
    discussion and by all means indulge if you will. My point was that the lay user
    would not benefit from the discussion as well as, in type development, it makes
    no sense to treat it differently. That being said, this forum is here for us type
    wackos who often press the nuance of meaning to extend our need to dig deeper.
    Your \"Notan\" example is more befitting the analysis though.  It is a fuzzier
    and newer term which only exists for discussion of type design/readability issues.
    It is not something that can be picked up and held or specified by a user like
    a ligature. (Go to your InD type palette opentype fly-out menu and chose \"notan\"
    :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-25 13:51:48'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "There have been threads on the nature of notan (linked in the wiki) and of
    course there's the wiki\r\nhttp://typophile.com/wiki/Notan\r\n\r\n<em>3 alone:
    hard to imagine except in conditions of extremely tight tracking but no other
    alterations (or when kerning brings it about)</em>\r\nJust another reason to be
    careful using Helvetica\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/rt_non-lig.png]\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-25 14:36:50'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> positive and negative ligatures\r\n\r\nOoooh, I like. Or what about Yin
    and Yang ligatures?\r\nMaybe confusing. And what if a ligature has both?  :-)\r\n\r\n>
    It is a fuzzier and newer term which only exists\r\n> for discussion of type design/readability
    issues.\r\n\r\n?\r\nThe Japanese have been using it for ages! That's where I got
    it.\r\n\r\nBTW, that wiki is great... except for the very first sentence!  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 17:26:41'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The Japanese have been using it for years but how long has it been used as
    a type term and by how many people? You may know all of them personally.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-25 18:01:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Just another reason to be careful using Helvetica</em>\r\n\r\nYes, that
    is a \"Helvetica\" weakness, as is the r_n combination.\r\nBut any reasonably
    tightly fitted sans serif will have a weakness somewhere, because it is impossible
    to design every glyph to fit evenly with every other glyph.\r\nIf the ear of the
    \"r\" in Helvetica curled a bit more, or had a non-vertical termination, so that
    it fit better with the \"t\", that would create fit problems elsewhere.\r\nWhere
    a typeface's fit problems are concentrated determines its personality. Also, given
    the varying frequency of different character combinations in different languages,
    there you have a reason for linguistic personality of a typeface.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    it should now be possible to employ contextual alternates in OT fonts to address
    fit-problem concentration. But not so obviously as with the long-eared \"r\" in
    Cheltenham Oldstyle. Why not have a Helvetica \"r.alt\" specifically for use before
    a \"t\"? -- very slightly altered in shape to avoid the present dubious almost-ligature.\r\n\r\nThis
    doesn't require massive class-substitutions, as there are hardly any accented
    versions of r and t.\r\n\r\nI'm experimenting with this kind of feature in a sans
    serif I'm developing at the moment."
  created: '2006-04-25 19:08:57'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"Why not have a Helvetica \u201Cr.alt\u201D specifically for use before
    a \u201Ct\u201D?\"\r\n\r\nThat is exactly what I did with my Align typeface.\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/align_r.png]"
  created: '2006-04-25 19:27:55'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I actually think the original Cheltenham solution\r\nis superb, both aesthetically
    and functionally.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 19:35:38'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Contextual alternates would be an improvement, although your point about
    linguistic frequency could mean a <em>lot</em> of extra work for you. Multiple
    personalities:)\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-25 21:38:29'
date: '2006-04-20 19:07:51'
title: qu ligature, tell me why not?

---
