---
author:
  name: alexfjelldal
  picture: 109596
body: "I've got the impression there are hardly any women using typohile. This impresssion
  is only based on the nicknames and on the few profiles I've looked at.\r\n\r\n\u2013
  Is the gender ratio on this website the same as in the \"real life\" world of typography?\r\n\u2013
  If women are underrepresented, why?\r\n\u2013 If women are underrepresented, what
  can be done to adjust the ratio? How would the typographic community benefit from
  this?\r\n\r\nI think more female discussion participants would help calm down the
  competitiveness sometimes emerging in the forums. "
comments:
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: 'There are certainly more male graphic designers, but the most dramatic gap
    is between the numbers of men and women in <em>type design</em>. There are probably
    fewer than fifty women who have created commercial fonts. Women are not scarce
    in calligraphy and lettering classes, and the number in type design programs at
    Reading and KABK are all far greater than those who become font makers. No one
    has adequately explained to me why this is. '
  created: '2006-04-21 09:44:44'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "<em>There are certainly more male graphic designers</em>\u2026\r\n\r\nStepen,
    I don't think that is true. It used to be true, but I doubt that this is still
    the case.\r\n\r\nMaybe men just like to boast more?"
  created: '2006-04-21 09:49:09'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "> There are certainly more male graphic designers.\r\n\r\n> It used to be
    true, but I doubt that this is still the case.\r\n\r\nI absolutely agree, when
    I did my degree in design, the ratio of women to men was around 3:1! I think things
    has definitely changed in the past decade or two as with everything else.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 10:03:57'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "I studied graphic design in both the US and in Germany. In both countries,
    the male:female student ratio was 1:3. This was very recent, though.\r\n\r\nFrightening
    was the teaching staff ratio. In the states, there were female professors, but
    not as many as there were men. Where I was was studying in Germany, there were
    no female professors in the design department at all, despite the department having
    recently hired several new professors, and the student body ratio. (I think that
    this might have improved though in the year that I've been out\u2026).\r\n\r\nI
    can't speak to the working environments back home in the States anymore. In Germany
    at the moment, lots of designers are graduationg and not getting jobs for a long
    time. Many of these graduates start working freelance, or try to found their own
    studios (out of desperation?). Since there are more female and male gradutes,
    it seems like there are more women not entering the workforce\u2026 but demographics
    play some role here. The average German design graduate is not 21 but about 28\u201332,
    I'd say. Some women opt straight for motherhood once their studies are complete.
    <em>Some</em> of these women who become mothers will, if the impression from the
    past decade is to be believed, never enter the design workforce at all, other
    than in a part-time/freelance capacity.\r\n\r\nStill, since there are so many
    new female designers in comparison with males, there should still be more women
    getting new jobs than men, even if you factor in possible career and life choices."
  created: '2006-04-21 10:16:00'
- author:
    name: andreas
    picture: 110541
  body: "Maybe it has something to do with the nature of type design. Its like model
    railroading - very focusing with a long pedantic breath.\r\n\r\n--<a href=\"http://www.astype.de\"
    target=\"_blank\">astype.de</a>--"
  created: '2006-04-21 10:24:51'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>I think more female discussion participants would help calm down the
    competitiveness sometimes emerging in the forums.</cite>\r\nIn the presence of
    the fair ones, gentlemen should hold their tongues? A chivalrous sentiment, but
    not now universal."
  children:
  - author:
      name: Kadiya
    body: "There are women here using Typophile <waving hand>, but I know that I use
      Typophile for information - what's new that I may want to check out, where people
      see trends, what typeface pairings people like since I am not an expert at these
      things.  \r\n\r\nLately, there have been a couple of posts that have rather
      discouraged me from posting lest I end up in an argument I had not intended
      - not posts that says women aren't welcome or anything, but posts that are openly
      derisive of people and their situations, questions, issues.  (George is so right
      on this one.)"
    created: '2006-04-21 12:42:59'
  created: '2006-04-21 12:34:50'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "they have their own forum for [[alphabetties]].\r\n\r\nSearch is your friend:
    I had the same question almost 2 years ago now:\r\n<a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/6414\">Women
    in type?</a> and <a href=\"http://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:TXyUBHNjA6YJ:www.typophile.com/node/6414+women+in+type+site:typophile.com&hl=en&gl=us&ct=clnk&cd=1&client=firefox-a\">the
    full thread with all moderators' comments</a> (Read this one)"
  created: '2006-04-21 14:19:51'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "<cite>In the presence of the fair ones, gentlemen should hold their tongues?
    A chivalrous sentiment, but not now universal.</cite>\r\n\r\nMy intention is not
    to protect anyone, Lady or Gentleman, from harsh discussions. I have worked in
    both all-men and all-women environments, and I must say, neither is an advantage.
    Reading some of the forums/threads on Typophile, I recognise the \"male\" patterns.
    These discussions evolve in a direction of who's right and who's wrong, and that's
    not very interesting, if you ask me. \r\n\r\nSaying this, I find most discussions
    here very interesting. And I can not point to specific threads, this is just a
    general notion. "
  created: '2006-04-21 14:22:48'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - These discussions evolve in a direction of who\u2019s right and who\u2019s
    wrong, and that\u2019s not very interesting, if you ask me.\r\nSaying this, I
    find most discussions here very interesting.\r\n\r\nYou can't have it both ways
    alex, to quote an old overused saying. :)\r\n\r\nThought comes from all directions\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-21 15:57:34'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: at my school there are 4 girls to every guy in the graphic design classes,
    so even if it's more males in the business now, that certainly should change soon.
  created: '2006-04-21 16:04:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> openly derisive\r\n\r\nSo women prefer being covertly derisive?  :-)\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nIn
    my type design class, 5 out of 7 students are women. And I actually think that's
    typical of graphic design as a whole these days. On the other hand, while the
    women seem to go on to become professional graphic designers, they don't do the
    same with type design. My explanation is that women have more sense.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 16:06:49'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Yes, type design is such a lucrative profession--it even pays less than being
    a school teacher. :-)\r\n\r\nI do think most young people going into design these
    days are women.  Perhaps the next generation will bring more women to type design.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-21 16:32:31'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>help calm down the competitiveness </em>\r\n\r\nAlex, what would you
    do if most times you got in a discussion on Typophile someone joined in and started
    dissing your work or where you lived? "
  created: '2006-04-21 17:26:11'
- author:
    name: mandy
  body: "Maybe it has something to do with the perceived technical nature of type
    design? I double-majored as an undergraduate, getting degrees in both English
    Lit and Physics simultaneously (though I work as a designer these days). My English
    classes were 70% female, while my Physics classes were 70% male (at a university
    that was circa 60% female overall). I had a chance to observe the stereotypes
    that members of each discipline held for the other. Male physicists often characterized
    literary criticism as a wishy-washy field, lacking any real rigor or organization.
    But the lit girls thought physics was all about crunching numbers and complicated
    math, stuff that was basically meaningless to their lives. They assumed physics
    was inaccessible, even though they'd never really been exposed to it. When a field
    seems innately technical, it generally appeals better to men; when it seems organic
    or humanistic, it generally attracts more women. At least, that's what I've observed.
    \ \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 17:30:48'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "All attempts at broad brushstrokes will ultimately be proven futile\u2026\r\n\r\nUnless
    you're a calligrapher or painter. :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-21 17:35:51'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> what would you do if ...\r\n\r\nThrow primadonna hissy-fits?\r\n\"Respect
    me, and using only my concept of respect,\r\nor I'll cut some ears off... starting
    with mine!\"\r\n\r\nNick, it's not you, it's me: when I see somebody\r\nsay something
    too wrong, I have to counter it.\r\nWell, maybe it's partly you as well, since
    you\r\nexhibit the lion's share of what [I think] is wrong.\r\n\r\nNow, if you
    need to keep pushing this thead in the\r\ndirection of macho-wars (which I assure
    you is mostly\r\none-sided) and reply to this (probably with something\r\npassive-aggressively
    caustic) go ahead, and I'll gladly\r\nlet you have the last word (as I've been
    doing often).\r\nOr maybe you'll allow yourself to look better by not\r\ndoing
    so. Your own behaviour is really only up to you.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 17:38:50'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "<cite>Alex, what would you do...</cite>\r\n\r\nI hope I wouldn't start dissing
    their work or where they lived."
  created: '2006-04-21 17:57:18'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: 'I studied Graphic Design in the UK and (unfortunately for me)it had a big
    emphasis on advertising and I tell you, it''s a male world and I''m talking about
    the worst kind: the mysogenous, power thirsty patronising tosser which looks at
    you with contempt everytime you open your mouth... I think editorial design environments
    are usually more balanced. In my short experience at typophile I find 90% of the
    discussions fine and helpful ....the discussion I posted about gays  show that
    some still have a little problem with diversity...but nothing very upsetting really.  '
  created: '2006-04-21 18:41:04'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: "<cite>patronising tosser</cite>\r\nmysogenous, from <em>musos</em> + <em>genein</em>
    = 'filth-producing'."
  created: '2006-04-21 19:02:12'
- author:
    name: NigellaL
    picture: 111493
  body: well i'm here, but i'm not a type designer so i guess that doesn't help...
    i like type a whole lot though!!! anyway, isn't it a bit of a disservice to the
    women doing great work in graphic deisgn and type design to complain that there
    aren't any women around?
  created: '2006-04-21 20:12:03'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "\r\n<cite >My explanation is that women have more sense.</cite> \r\n\r\nThis
    rings of truth."
  created: '2006-04-21 20:59:18'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: ">anyway, isn\u2019t it a bit of a disservice to the women doing great work
    in graphic deisgn and type design to complain that there aren\u2019t any women
    around?\r\n\r\nI'm not complaining that there aren't any woman around, I know
    there are. I was just wondering if they are underrepresented in this forum. If
    so, it could mean that a disproportionate amount of female graphic/type designers
    are excluded from the networking going on this website."
  created: '2006-04-21 21:40:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> isn\u2019t it a bit of a disservice to the women doing great work\r\n>
    in graphic deisgn and type design to complain that there\r\n> aren\u2019t any
    women around?\r\n\r\nMaybe he was complaining that there aren't\r\n<cite>enough</cite>
    around. But really, is there ever?  :-)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 22:06:25'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'You''re absolutely right: something should be done. If there''s one thing
    in the world that I shall tolerate no longer, it''s seeing woman after disproportionate
    woman being excluded from Typophile.'
  created: '2006-04-21 22:09:59'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I dunno, type designer women seem generally well-proportioned to me.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 22:30:09'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: female type designers seem to be in short supply though, yes.. honestly, i
    can only name two prolific female type designers off the back of my hand and that's
    Zuzana Licko and Carol Twombly (of Trajan fame).
  created: '2006-04-21 22:41:42'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: ok, maybe disproportionate was the wrong word. Come on, it's not <strong>that</strong>
    easy being norwegian! I mean, all we get to eat is whale and reindeer. Maybe "off-balance"
    is the word I was looking for?
  created: '2006-04-21 22:42:38'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> \u201Coff-balance\u201D\r\n\r\nWell, considering the crushing majority
    of them avoid type design\r\nlike the plague, that might in fact be an accurate
    description.  ;-)\r\n\r\nBTW, you know what I've been dying to have forever?\r\nDolphin.
    Where can a guy get a filet of one?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-21 22:49:12'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: Yes, where are the women? Nobody wants me! Gah!
  created: '2006-04-21 23:05:54'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite >I mean, all we get to eat is whale and reindeer.</cite>\r\n\r\nI wish
    I had a catch-all excuse that good."
  children:
  - author:
      name: "\u2022Prakash Nair"
      picture: 111459
    body: ugh...disgusting.
    created: '2006-04-21 23:44:43'
  created: '2006-04-21 23:38:19'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite >BTW, you know what I\u2019ve been dying to have forever? Dolphin.
    Where can a guy get a filet of one?</cite>\r\n\r\nI wouldn't be surprised to find
    it in a sushi bar being called something else. \r\n\r\nIt's a good thing they
    don't like cold water or you could probably find it in Norway.\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-04-21 23:49:13'
- author:
    name: antiphrasis
    picture: 109938
  body: I always try to buy my canned tuna with dolphin.  ;-)
  created: '2006-04-22 00:30:37'
- author:
    name: Diner
    picture: 110407
  body: "Gents hold onto your seats, the sea of female designers will spill fourth
    like lemmings in about 2 years and rest assured some of them will become type
    designers . . .\r\n\r\nHow am I so confident? It's simple . . . Digital Scrapbooking
    . . .\r\n\r\nThat's secret code for Photoshop Art Director and I predict as the
    trend grows into a billion dollar industry like it's paper and scissors counterpart
    the fallout of a relaxing hobby for the female scrappin' set will become a sea
    of very capable female Phoshop designers who will realize there is very little
    difference between designing cute album pages of Rover the pooch and a website
    or brochure for a fortune 500 company . . .\r\n\r\nNobody sees this and it's sure
    to hit the design world over the head . . .\r\n\r\nMark this post! You read it
    here first!\r\n\r\nStuart :D"
  created: '2006-04-22 02:01:03'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite >Mark this post! You read it here first!</cite>\r\n\r\nDid you come
    up with that? That is very astute. I believe it,\r\nand will remember...\r\n:
    )\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-22 02:04:44'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: self censored
  created: '2006-04-22 18:16:40'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Get yourself a dictionary\r\n\r\nBetween a dictionary and a <cite>sense
    of humor</cite> I'll the latter any day...\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-22 18:29:56'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'Lorenza, I was imitating the patronising tosser of your post: I was teasing
    you. If the tosser dislikes you for your gender alone, he is a misogynist.'
  created: '2006-04-22 18:31:31'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: 'Thanx, not everyone has access to your priviledged education and maybe English
    is not my mother language and hrant, what do you have to do with that anyway?
    Bloody hell, what a bunch of pedantic arses you are! Hrant, serious: you talk
    a lot for someone that doesn''t have ANYTHING to say. You are just there to post
    silly little meaningless comments on absolutely anything, maybe you don''t have
    much work to do? career not going well? get a life, mate! '
  created: '2006-04-22 18:39:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> maybe English is not my mother language\r\n\r\nIt was my fourth.\r\n\r\n--\r\n\r\nLorenza,
    come on, please take it easy.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-22 19:22:25'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Look: I'm working on only 5 projects and I don't have time to breathe, I
    check Typophile only every couple of days and usually for a good reason. I love
    these forums but it pisses me off that in order to find a useful comment I have
    to waste my precious time going through useless observations. I strongly recommend
    you (and Dennis if he's reading this) keep your contributions to a minimum in
    terms of quantity and try to raise the quality of your observations. \r\nBack
    to work, now? "
  created: '2006-04-22 19:34:04'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: 'The pedantry you encounter, Lorenza, is actually a response to your thinking
    style: the listener, though he cannot openly insult you, must nonetheless recoil
    at it.'
  created: '2006-04-22 20:12:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Lorenza: <em>what do you have to do with that anyway?</em>\r\nGeorge: <em>the
    listener ... must nonetheless recoil</em>\r\n\r\nHmm, we might be getting somewhere.
    \r\nMaybe women don't like chauvinists?\r\nHrant is the #1 poster and says what
    he likes about anything, regardless of people's sensitivities. George, don't be
    swayed by the dark side."
  created: '2006-04-22 20:18:34'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: I have my own idea of the dark side/light side divide, so I'll be alright
    Nick.
  created: '2006-04-22 20:31:17'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite >I strongly recommend you (and Dennis if he\u2019s reading this) keep
    your contributions to a minimum in terms of quantity and try to raise the quality
    of your observations.</cite>\r\n\r\nAll my observations use <strong >only</strong>
    the freshest ingredients, and come with a money-back guarantee. A sense of humor
    is required for some of the esoteric allusions. I admit surprise that the brilliance
    of my contributions are not universally acknowledged, but I try not to let that
    dampen my spirits.\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-04-22 21:14:49'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> I have to waste my precious time\r\n\r\nMy time is more precious than yours.\r\n\r\n>
    Maybe women don\u2019t like chauvinists?\r\n\r\nExcept I generally have no problem
    with women on these boards.\r\nMy main problem has always been with a very narrow
    demographic:\r\nthe middle-aged Anglo male. Think objectively why that's the case.\r\n\r\nBTW,
    feel free to deliver warnings about the Dark Side, but I in\r\nturn feel no need
    to counter that, since I'm confident that nobody\r\nnever ever wants to go the
    Whiny Side. BTW, women <cite>hate</cite> that.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-22 23:05:46'
- author:
    name: hankzane
    picture: 110181
  body: "<em>I love these forums but it pisses me off that in order to find a useful
    comment I have to waste my precious time going through useless observations.</em>\r\n\r\nYeah
    ... But how else would you get the bliss of discovering something?"
  created: '2006-04-23 00:17:28'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Except I generally have no problem with women on these boards.</em>\r\n\r\nBut
    they might have a problem with guys who say stuff like \"type designer women seem
    generally well-proportioned to me\". Surely there is a sensitivity training course
    you could take in LA?"
  created: '2006-04-23 02:21:17'
- author:
    name: snowblink
  body: "such a fascinating thread....I go to undergrad design school and this is
    a constant topic of discussion as the ration of women to men is often 15-17:1
    as a single class may often have just one male in it, some none at all. In any
    case, that seems to be the general rule about design schools as of late.\r\n\r\nI
    don't really know what that means\u2014perhaps the scales will swing drastically
    within the next decade\u2014perhaps not. At the same time, what does it matter?\r\n\r\nI
    find that gender is much more of a broad gradient than it is a black and white
    definition. Anyway, it's all about categorization of body shapes and generalizations
    that don't really have anything to do with those letters that we fiddle with all
    day....right\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nexcept boys have cooties. hee."
  created: '2006-04-23 02:33:43'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> they might have a problem with\r\n\r\nAs usual, you are entirely too eager
    to feel offense, to the extent of doing so by proxy. Let the women complain if
    they really want to - they don't need you as a spokesman. Stop projecting perceived
    offense onto yourself. Really Nick, am I not giving you enough of your fill <cite>directly</cite>?\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-23 03:02:12'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Canadian vs LAlien - the death match continues\u2026\r\n\r\nWhen I was in
    Vancouver there were two articles on the front page of the paper on why you shouldn't
    speed.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-23 03:23:27'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "<Let the women complain if they really want to - they don\u2019t need you
    as a spokesman>>>>\r\n\r\nhrant: Like you're going to apologize and stop pontificating
    if someone (man or woman) complains!\r\nAnd why are YOU (hrant)talking on women's
    behalf? I might need Nick as a spokesman, not because I need a man (or anyone)to
    defend me but because he seems to be waaaaaaaaaaaaaaayyyyy more diplomatic than
    you with your \"divine interventions\" and unrequested \"pearls of wisdom\".  \r\nAlex:
    Probably women don't hang around a lot here because they are usually more sensitive
    to issues of discrimination: racism, sexism, ageism, homophobia, classism etc.
    and people that pontificate too much in general."
  created: '2006-04-23 13:45:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Like you\u2019re going to apologize\r\n\r\nIn fact I apologize about 50
    times more than Nick (and I don't make nearly as many as 50 times more mistakes).
    You've only been here 6 weeks, and you think you've figured everything out about
    everybody, eh? It's OK, I will tolerate your naive arrogance.\r\n\r\n> he seems
    to be waaaaaaaaaaaaaaayyyyy more diplomatic\r\n\r\nHe is. He's from your island.
    Both geographically and psychologically.\r\n\r\nTypophile is not the UN - it is
    a place to learn,\r\nand that's best done with tolerance (but not the\r\nkind
    you stomp your feet about) and a spine.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-23 15:06:13'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sibylle Hagmann (Cholla, etc.) wrote an article last year, \"Non-existent
    design: women and the creation of type\"\r\n\r\nYou'll need a subscription to
    Visual Communication Online to read it.\r\n\r\nhttp://vcj.sagepub.com/cgi/reprint/4/2/186?maxtoshow=&HITS=10&hits=10&RESULTFORMAT=1&author1=hagmann%2C+S&andorexacttitle=and&andorexacttitleabs=and&andorexactfulltext=and&searchid=1&FIRSTINDEX=0&sortspec=relevance&resourcetype=HWCIT"
  created: '2006-04-23 19:26:19'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "whoaaaaaaa lady ! Are you calling me jellyfish!? Umph!\r\nI was waiting for
    you to throw on my face the number of weeks I've been around...actually it took
    you a long time! Given how territorial you are, it was all very predictable. Which
    is why it took me only few weeks to figure out about you. You are such a darling
    simple transparent person that I almost feel like hug you. BTW...I am not originally
    from the \"island\" (but I luv it!) and we don't need to be the UN but it would
    be nice to consider that people here come from all sort of countries, minority
    groups, races, gender, sexuality etc. and a bit of love and affection and good
    manners would be nice. It would improve a lot the learning environment ;) \r\nShall
    we now move on and talk about the issues that really matter, namely \"equality
    at Typophile\" if I well remember...or you might as well be \"hranting\" alone.\r\n\r\npeace
    out homeboy, we are all in the same boat (looking like the Titanic at least in
    this forum...)\r\n\r\nPS: what have the Brits done to you that you are still holding
    a grudge? ;) You'll see everything will be fine! Hugz"
  created: '2006-04-23 19:33:34'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "I remember my tutor at university saying ( brilliant nice woman) saying that
    you shouldn't write your gender and your date of birth on your CV, cause nobody
    needs to know that. If she said that probably  she knew (2 decades in the profession)what
    a male world is Graphic Design. She said that. Not me. But I agree with the CV
    thing.It's nobody's business if you are a woman, a man. Of course usually you
    can tell the gender by the name...\r\nDamn... I don't have a subscription to Visual
    Communication. "
  created: '2006-04-23 19:41:41'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "While I think that everything matters (especially age, although not absolutely).
    It's not a matter of ignoring aspects of reality, it's a matter of treating people
    (including third parties who will be affected by a particular hiring decision
    for example) fairly. That said, it's understandable to try to bypass unfair imbalances
    in the system - as long as we admit it, and not hide behind a veil of relativism.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-23 19:49:59'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Yo babe! Glad you're back in shape.\r\nI don't agree with the age thing.
    Age in graphic design means experience and good solid education. I see lots of
    kids with talent nowadays that are just worried about what's trendy now and are
    just producing ephemerous work (oh jeeesss...where are you george? I don't know
    how to spell ephemerous in English...) stuff you look at and forget about it after
    5 secs. I don't believe it's absolutely necessary to know how to use the latest
    technology if you are creative enough. I mean, obviously if you can't cope with
    the technology developments, you are missing a lot of things...type design for
    example? "
  created: '2006-04-23 20:00:33'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> Glad you\u2019re back in shape.\r\n\r\nI assimilate you.\r\nIf you stick
    around long enough, I'm confident you will get it.\r\n\r\n> I don\u2019t agree
    with the age thing. Age in graphic\r\n> design means experience and good solid
    education.\r\n\r\n?\r\nMake up your mind!\r\n\r\nBTW, it's funny you thought I
    meant that young = good.\r\nIn fact I meant no such thing - if anything I meant
    the\r\nopposite. Think about why that happened; such intro-\r\nspection is a key
    to growth.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-23 20:05:36'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>Age in graphic design means experience and good solid education.</em>\r\n\r\nWow...
    thanks for the off-handed compliment.\r\nBut age can produce wine, vinegar and
    very stinky cheese!\r\n\r\nAs for women in type design, the ones you learn about
    are the ones that outclassed many of the males. The same holds true for art. Very
    few males are still willing to admit that Mary Cassatt was a \"better\" painter
    than most of the Impressionists, and that Georgia O'Keefe was in a class by herself.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------------------\r\nYes,
    I'm old, but I'm experienced and have a solid education! ;-)"
  created: '2006-04-23 20:16:41'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I know a bunch of people\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-24 03:15:07'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: Does it even matter how many women do what? Seriously, would it change the
    way you use type? Besides, everyone knows women can't do hard stuff like type
    design.
  created: '2006-04-24 03:46:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"except boys have cooties\"\r\n\r\nLOL, now you sound like my daughter when
    she was younger. She eventually got over it :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-24 04:08:04'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>\u201Cexcept boys have cooties\u201D\r\n\r\nLOL, now you sound like
    my daughter when she was younger. She eventually got over it :-) </cite>\r\n\r\nBack
    in the '50s the only (times have changed) Mexican girl in our So. Cal. school
    was Nadine. If she drank out of a certain faucet, no one else could use that faucet
    for the rest of the day, or they got the cooties too. This type of behavior went
    on for the entire year. I wish I could see that she wasn't emotionally scarred
    for life."
  created: '2006-04-24 04:28:46'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "I was avoiding joining in this thread, but I think I want to know, what are
    <em>cooties</em>?\r\nTim\r\nbtw Lore the word you are looking for, I think, is
    ephemeral and the point you make about it is sadly true."
  created: '2006-04-24 11:53:19'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dennis,\r\nThe ethnic reference in your anecdote is in poor taste and is
    not needed to tell the story.  You might want to remove it and avoid offending
    people.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-24 14:12:43'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Dennis,\r\nThe ethnic reference in your anecdote is in poor taste and
    is not needed to tell the story. You might want to remove it and avoid offending
    people.,</cite>\r\n\r\nPlease tell me you are kidding? That is what puts it in
    context. Simply for being Mexican we emotionally tortured a girl. I only spoke
    out about it because I had just been wondering about her Sat. But I feel bad about
    it. I am married to a Mexican citizen. \r\n\r\nI won't jump to conclusions about
    you, but a big problem in today's society is how quickly so many people get offended.
    Unless someone is urinating on some Christian icon, of course. Then it is free
    speech.\r\n\r\nI bare my soul, and someone nit-picks. This week isn't starting
    out good. I'll hope things get better at the office."
  created: '2006-04-24 14:23:34'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Ephemeral! Of course...how embarrassing, I'm mixing the languages you see
    (or it's the age) thanx! Now I'd love to know what a cootie is...\r\nI realised
    my comment about age equal experience/solid education wasn't very fortunate the
    moment I wrote it..I knew nobody would let me get away with it! Anyway, I was
    trying to avoid this thread too because it's all very vague (starting from me...).
    It would be best to gather statistics and figures and then try to come to some
    conclusion. Maybe Typophile can provide that? "
  created: '2006-04-24 14:42:08'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A \"Cootie\" is something invented by young children in elementary schools
    years ago.  It is some sort of an evil ficticious bug creature that can infest
    you.  Children can be cruel so at times, they would hurl the biggest insult that
    they could muster at someone they disliked or were jealous of.  That remark was
    \"You have Cooties\"!. At which point a chorus of \"Ehhuuuuuu!!!\" would chime
    in by the rest of the 3rd graders in earshot.\r\nSince at that age boys and girls
    are \"enemies\" (until puberty strikes), the Cooties insult was often blasted
    at members of the opposite sex.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-24 14:47:35'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Origin:\r\n\r\nPronunciation: (kOO't\u0113), [key] \r\n\u2014n. Informal.
    \r\na louse, esp. one affecting humans, as the body louse, head louse, or pubic
    louse. Also,cooty\r\n\r\nIndiscrimitely applied by third-graders. As an aside,
    (I hope no one is offended), about that age, I once called a white boy the \"n\"
    word. I didn't know what it was, but I knew it was \"bad\". I sure the meeting
    we had with the boy's parents that night would be comical if it could have been
    video-taped."
  created: '2006-04-24 15:07:13'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cootie_GAme_Box.jpg]\r\n<em>1949 THE
    GAME OF COOTIE Schaper</em>\r\n\r\nYes, \"<em>So-and-so has Cooties!</em>\" was
    one of the earliest insults you could fling recalling early school years from
    the fifties.\r\n\r\nI also remember the board game, shown above dated 1949, so
    it must have been used as an expression many years before that.\r\n\r\nCurrent
    version of <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/exec/obidos/tg/detail/-/B00000IWDO/qid=1145899514/sr=1-7/ref=sr_1_7/002-7832956-9681644?v=glance&s=toys\"
    target=\"new\">Cootie Game</a> by Milton Bradley still available.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Cootie_game.png]"
  created: '2006-04-24 18:37:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Norbert,\r\nThat game always bugged me :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL\r\n\r\nPS: Carol
    says hello!"
  created: '2006-04-24 19:22:18'
- author:
    name: Norbert Florendo
    picture: 110725
  body: "> <em>PS: Carol says hello!</em>\r\n\r\nGlad you had a great time at TDC,
    thanks for your great summary on <a href=\"http://typophile.com/node/19471\" target=\"new\">FontTech
    Weekend</a>."
  created: '2006-04-24 19:33:20'
- author:
    name: '.00'
  body: "<cite>yes.. honestly, i can only name two prolific female type designers
    off the back of my hand and that\u2019s Zuzana Licko and Carol Twombly (of Trajan
    fame).</cite>\r\n\r\nOnly two?\r\n\r\nFreda Sack, Fiona Ross, Chris Holmes, Diane
    Collier, Jill Bell, Veronica Elsner, Holly Goldsmith, Teri Kahan, Lennea Lundquist,
    Jean Evans, Yvonne Diedrich..."
  created: '2006-04-25 03:49:29'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>yes.. honestly, i can only name two prolific female type designers
    off the back of my hand and that\u2019s Zuzana Licko and Carol Twombly (of Trajan
    fame).</cite>\r\n\r\nSoon to join the ranks: Rebecca Aliccari? (At what point
    is \"prolific\" reached?)"
  created: '2006-04-25 03:52:21'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "Chris, et al\r\nThanks for the definition \u2013 children can be beasts can't
    they?\r\n\r\nLore,\r\nNo need to apologise, wish I could mix languages with the
    same facility.\r\n\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-04-25 11:59:22'
date: '2006-04-21 09:22:52'
title: Where are the women?

---
