---
author:
  name: stw
  picture: 110841
body: "Very very off topic\u2026\r\nBut for everyone of you who want to get to know
  each other a bit better (and is interested in the question like me): the what are
  you listening to, when you are working thread!?\r\nAnd do you get inspired by the
  music!?\r\n\r\n\r\nFirst answer by myself:\r\nAt the moment I am listening to amusing
  70s and 80s soul. Maybe because I am working on a happy looking revival mix of cooper
  black and goudy heavyface. Well, I should better listen to beach boys I think :)
  \r\n\r\n\r\nBye: Steven"
comments:
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "http://www.last.fm/user/grafixforlife/\r\n\r\nbut worth checking out: http://www.last.fm/group/Typophiles
    (if other people actually left the iScrobbler app running)"
  created: '2006-04-24 04:29:22'
- author:
    name: mpolino
  body: I have my library on shuffle and right at this moment, it's Dr. Octagon (Kool
    Keith).  Last song was Sizzla, "Woman I need you".  Next song will be "In hell
    I burn" by Deicide.  Hmmm, gonna have to put the skip on Deicide. Not the chillinest
    of design music. heh. Thats shuffle for you.
  created: '2006-04-24 04:31:06'
- author:
    name: mpolino
  body: oh and it's 9:25pm here in colorado.
  created: '2006-04-24 04:31:37'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: My stuff is on LAST.FM too. Typophiles Group.
  created: '2006-04-24 04:32:53'
- author:
    name: Jackson
    picture: 109752
  body: "I'm currently obsessed with the new cds by Gregory and the Hawk, Marit Larson,
    NOFX, and Nickel Creek. Also The Waitresses, Phil Ochs, Devildriver, Ephel Duath,
    The Rentals, and Regina Spektor. Pretty all over the place. \r\n\r\n<cite>Hmmm,
    gonna have to put the skip on Deicide.</cite>\r\n\r\nDeath metal usually throws
    a wrench into the whole shuffle thing. I like to make playlists by genre/mood
    and shufffle inside those. \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-24 04:39:54'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: 'Alison Krauss & Union Station always inspires me. Jerry Douglas is the BOMB!
    And their harmonies are soooo nice. (The Live DVD concert is something I don''t
    see how anyone could not love). '
  created: '2006-04-24 04:46:23'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "Interesting mixture you are listening to mpolino :)\r\n\r\nRap, Reggae\u2026\r\n\u2026
    Deathmetal\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-24 04:50:26'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "The Waitresses! My god, that's a blast from the past. I should talk, I've
    been listening to Blondie Parallel Lines, Velvet Underground & Nico, Talking Heads.\r\n\r\nAlso,
    the new Neil Diamond (Rick Rubin produced), Beth Orton, Gomez (seen the last two
    play recently), Chocolate Genius, Jeff Buckley, Neil Young, Johnny Cash but will
    check out some of the others on the Typophile list."
  created: '2006-04-24 04:52:38'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "Oh I my next track is a classic:\r\nMonkey Island - Main theme"
  created: '2006-04-24 04:53:59'
- author:
    name: mpolino
  body: "Yeah, pretty all over the place.  Girls Against Boys just came on. Haven't
    heard that in a while. Heard some pixies a while back too. Those bands bring me
    back to high school. Are the waitresses the ones who had that song \"I know what
    boys like\"\r\nheh. This is a fun thread. I don't know if I necessarily get inspiration
    from the music but it is required.  Ok, back to work. "
  created: '2006-04-24 05:00:09'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Anyone remember that song "I might like you better if we slept together" (Romeo
    Void) more or less the same era as the Waitresses?
  created: '2006-04-24 05:06:06'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: I recognised it here and in my class too! Most of the creative people like
    to listening to Non-electronic music or they like rockmusic too!?
  created: '2006-04-24 05:09:42'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: 'I have never heard of Romeo Void!? Also I have never listen to The Waitresses.
    But I know that crappy song by the former band of Waitresses bandsinger. "Tell
    That Girl To Shut Up" by Holly and the Italians '
  created: '2006-04-24 05:45:16'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: If you want good music Google Search Popa Chubby, a blues player that will
    sit you on your ear.
  created: '2006-04-24 06:28:29'
- author:
    name: Zara Evens
    picture: 110565
  body: "This is always a popular topic.\r\n\r\nSame thread, same title:\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/123"
  created: '2006-04-24 06:37:35'
- author:
    name: Adriano Santi
    picture: 110406
  body: "I've been all over the place recently. Here's some of the stuff I've been
    listening to:\r\n\r\nGy\xF6rgy Ligeti - Lux Aeterna, Musica Ricercata\r\nArnold
    Sch\xF6nberg - Pierrot Lunaire\r\nTangerine Dream - Zeit\r\nKing Crimson - Lark's
    Tongues in Aspic, Red, Lizard\r\nIannis Xenakis - Anastenaria, Electronic Music\r\nSonic
    Youth - SYR 3, SYR 4\r\nRadiohead - Kid A\r\nElis Regina & Tom Jobim - Elis &
    Tom\r\nMiles Davis - Kind of Blue, Bitches Brew"
  created: '2006-04-24 08:12:55'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "http://www.beatbasement.com \r\n\r\nor a random iPod mix:\r\n\r\nWhite Stripes,
    Radiohead, (older) coldplay, the cramps, talking heads, tribe called quest, hieroglyphics,
    the clash, the cure, helmet the hives, mos def, kanye west, pinback, transfer,
    the police, ramones, the roots, sigur ros, black moon\u2026\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-24 08:37:41'
- author:
    name: Duckworth
  body: 'Goldfrapp: Supernature and Ricky Gervais'' Podcast mostly. Also Radio 1 (Come
    back Mark & Lard). '
  created: '2006-04-24 11:43:36'
- author:
    name: filip blazek
    picture: 110363
  body: Pink Martini, Paris Combo, Rachid Taha, Khaled, Manu Chao, Moby, Royksopp,
    Stan Getz, Amr Diab...
  created: '2006-04-24 11:44:33'
- author:
    name: "\u2022Prakash Nair"
    picture: 111459
  body: "I just got the entire Mozart collection (every single concerto and symphony).
    Really inspiring to work with.\r\nAlso occasionally, Buddha Bar...for something
    more chilled out."
  created: '2006-04-24 12:03:26'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: Roxy Music, The Who, Placebo, Underworld, David Bowie, The Beatles, Pumpkins...
  created: '2006-04-24 12:43:53'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: Beastie Boys, New Order, Joy Division, Alden Tyrell...
  created: '2006-04-24 12:49:00'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "4'33'' by John Cage. Over and over again\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-24 15:00:53'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Varies... today the Crash, Nits, Belle & Sebastian, Morrissey.\r\n\r\nTomorrow
    Depeche Mode and David Sylvian, maybe"
  created: '2006-04-24 15:07:36'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "4'33\" lol. I work mostly in silence since the lyrics of most songs distract
    me from the words I'm dealing with in my work.\r\n\r\nHowever, on the subway,
    on the iPod, in addition to earlier mentions: Patti Smith, Damien Rice, Golden
    \ Palominos, Beck's Guero and Guerolito (altho I can't BELIEVE he's a scientologist!),
    Decemberists, Franz Ferdinand (anyone else think they sound a lot like Frankie
    Goes to Hollywood?), Fiona Apple, Marc Ribot, MC 900 Ft. Jesus, Radio Head, Lucinda
    Williams, White Stripes (plus the one with Loretta Lynn)."
  created: '2006-04-24 16:23:18'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: Yeah Yeah Yeahs - Show Your Bones
  created: '2006-04-24 16:52:30'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: "Patty you should check out <a href=\"www.sigur-ros.co.uk\">Sigur R\xF3s</a>
    if lyrics distract you from the words your dealing with at work. Other bands on
    that tangent include: M\xFAm, The Album Leaf, Boards of Canada and Sound Tribe
    Sector 9"
  created: '2006-04-24 16:57:15'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'Today I''ve got my Dance Mix going in shuffle mode on iTunes: FC Kahuna (Chillout
    2003), Jem (Finally Woken), Lustral (Best of Trance Vol 1), Air (Moon Safari),
    Erykah Badu (Worldwide Underground), William Caslon Experience (Same), Missy Elliott  (Da
    Real World), No Doubt (Rock Steady), Racoon (Universal Vibes), Sarah McLachlan
    (Bloom: Remix Album), ATB (Two Worlds), Better Daze (Remix Project) and a few
    I won''t mention as I don''t want to admit to all of my guilty pleasures.'
  created: '2006-04-24 17:19:46'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: Thanks David - I do have a few Sigur Ros tunes on the Pod. I actually have
    an ambient playlist which includes Freeworm, Color by Numbers, some Qawwali and
    other eastern music, Badawi, other stuff.
  created: '2006-04-24 17:28:41'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "i almost forgot!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.typeradio.org"
  created: '2006-04-24 17:37:22'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "oooh, saw nickle creek in concert last week and they did \"toxic\": too funny.
    i still wish i would have been there to see/hear them do \"where it's at.\" and
    if you have their last album, \"anthony\" is so much better live. and i wish they
    would have performed \"helena.\"\r\n\r\ngood to see some favorites enjoyed by
    other peeps: pink martini in particular (another great concert). can't believe
    no one else is listening to clap your hands say yeah..."
  created: '2006-04-24 17:37:26'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - I work mostly in silence since the lyrics of most songs distract
    me from the words I\u2019m dealing with in my work.\r\n\r\nI agree with you. So
    I tend to listen to instrumental music or music with lyrics in foreign languages.
    I'm big on Gypsy music from just about everywhere, and also non-techno ambient
    music. Classical is also a very nice thing to design to\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-24 17:44:21'
- author:
    name: mili
    picture: 110756
  body: "Paul Cutler:  Classical is also a very nice thing to design to..\r\n\r\nI
    agree. I use classical if I need help to concentrate or if I'm writing something.
    Different kind of music for different kind of jobs.\r\nPop/rock is good for Photoshop
    work."
  created: '2006-04-24 18:07:39'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'in the office: Japancakes'
  created: '2006-04-24 18:16:04'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "Ahmad Jamal, <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000006EJ4/\" target=\"_blank\"><em>Cross
    Country Tour: 1958-61</em></a>\r\n\r\nSwinging, sparkling... simply amazing.\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-04-24 18:17:20'
- author:
    name: david h
    picture: 110928
  body: Zebda
  created: '2006-04-24 18:22:40'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "mwebert - How about a little Mal Waldron? Ahmad Jamal is amazing. Bill Evans
    perchance? 50s era Miles? Jimmy Scott? I could go on\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-24 18:50:27'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: 'When a jazz mood hits I love: Coltrane (Ballads [one of the sexiest album
    in the world], Giant Steps, Lush Life, My favorite things), Mingus (Mingus Mingus
    Mingus Mingus Mingus), Bill Frisell with Dave Holland and Elvin Jones, Toots Thielemans
    (Ne Me Quitte Pas), Etta James (At Last), Sarah Vaughn (Love Songs), Madaleine
    Peyroux (Careless Love) '
  created: '2006-04-24 19:00:05'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Classics all\u2026\r\n\r\nArt Ensemble of Chicago - Muhal Richard Abrams
    - Sun Ra for a more modern taste\u2026\r\n\r\nBut we can look at these lists and
    the conclusion I come to is that academia has ruined jazz.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-24 19:07:36'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Pletnev playing C.P.E. Bach
  created: '2006-04-24 19:26:58'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Glen Gould playing Mozart or J.S. Bach\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-24 19:28:30'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I can't listen to anything while I work but my old 60gig iPod has every opera
    ever written on it with multiple recordings of most by different artists. I have
    to be careful not to sing along when the bass arias come on. A strange bald guy
    singing Don Giovanni arias alone in a crowded subway is not a pretty sight :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-25 02:28:38'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Glenn Gould is just fabulous playing Bach. Screw what the purists say. I
    bet JSB would love to hear it if he were alive.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-25 02:30:11'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "For the ultimate in music that disappears: Golden Bowls by Karma Moffett\r\n\r\nFado:
    Amalia Rodrigues, M\xEDsia\r\n\r\nFlamenco: Pepe di la Matrona\r\n\r\nRoma: Taraf
    de Haidouks, Istanbul Oriental Ensemble, Romica Puceanu\r\n\r\nTurkey: The Erguner
    Brothers\r\n\r\nThe throat singing of Tuva\r\n\r\nThe overtone singing of Sardinia\r\n\r\nRussian
    Orthodox choirs\r\n\r\nThere is so much good music in the air\u2026\r\n\r\npeace\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 02:30:40'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - Glenn Gould is just fabulous playing Bach.\r\n\r\nNo doubt. I love
    both versions of The Goldberg Variations.\r\n\r\nI like his triple Mozart solo
    CD even better. The articulation and relaxed way that he plays Mozart is sublime\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-25 02:33:36'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I like the unencumbered legato in the left hand where he sustains the bass
    overtones under the articulated notes above. What a sound!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mpolino
    body: "I like the unencumbered legato in the left hand where he sustains the bass
      overtones under the articulated notes above. What a sound!\r\n\r\nOMG!~ Are
      you joking?"
    children:
    - author:
        name: mpolino
      body: I have played many instruments for many years and if you have to talk
        about music like that, you aren't enjoying it as much as you should. Actually,
        you are probably just smarter than me but it seems like too much thought for
        music listening.  I can honestly tell you that my least least least favorite
        part of music is theory. I hate it. I bet slash couldn't even read music,
        but he is one of the greatest musicians ever recorded and distributed. I am
        not knocking the person who wrote that, but it seems a bit "gay."  Oh my gosh,
        what have I said?  Watch the flows come in.
      children:
      - author:
          name: mpolino
        body: Heh, oh and I am listening to Merle Haggard and Michael Jackson
        created: '2006-04-27 04:11:09'
      created: '2006-04-27 04:02:55'
    created: '2006-04-27 03:55:55'
  created: '2006-04-25 02:40:03'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "He truly makes the music his own. That is very rare. I love it\u2026\r\n\r\nI
    have some budget CDs where his humming is very present. Pretty hilarious, actually.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-25 02:43:44'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "Anyone of you saw White Stripes!? They had such a nice stage. So lovely designed.\r\n\r\nThe
    whole stage and the equipment was painted in red.\r\nhttp://images.freemusic.cz/koncerty/whitestripes/12.jpg\r\n\r\nOn
    every side of the stage were hanging very nice banners.\r\nhttp://sophiejarryonstageandback.neufblog.com/photos/uncategorized/the_white_stripes_zenith_paris_sjarry2.jpg\r\n\r\nThey
    had also real palms painted in white on their stage. Nice Carpets everywhere on
    the ground. Many kitschy stuff, like cuckoo clocks, those little hawaian girls
    puppies that dances to the sound of the music. The whole area looked like a beautiful
    red livingroom. I wish my room were so comfortable.\r\n\r\nAnd by the way: The
    music and the show was breathtaking. I wonder how 2 people could entertain a hall
    so much."
  created: '2006-04-25 03:11:27'
- author:
    name: garyw
    picture: 110508
  body: "Nine Horses \u2014 <em>Snow Borne Sorrow</em>\r\nWilliam Orbit \u2014 <em>Hello
    Waveforms</em>\r\nNeil Finn \u2014 <em>Try Whistling This</em>\r\nElbow \u2014
    <em>Cast of Thousands</em>\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 03:11:54'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Some misc. great music:\r\n\r\nAnyone courageous enough for something different
    in a foreign language, I can recommend anything you can get by Maria Dolores Pradera
    (from the Canary Islands). One of the richest voices in the history of mankind.
    \r\n\r\nAnd there are some incredible performances by Om Kolthom (Egypt), if you
    can get an ear for Arabic scales and instrumentation. Otherwise it is music to
    drive away unwanted houseguests. Few westerners are capable of enjoying this,
    but if you are feeling adventurous...\r\n\r\nAnything by Rhonda Vincent (killer
    bluegrass)\r\n\r\nUnforgettable by Terumasa Hino (standards by a Jazzman from
    Japan playing a cornet)\r\n\r\nBrad Paisley's guitar licks on Time Warp from the
    new CD (left me speechless) will confirm country musicians are stepping up to
    the plate as far as chops go.\r\n\r\nSome raw, heart-wrenching Mexican rancheras
    for those not offended by anything Mexican, can be found on the early works of
    Chavela Vargas. Later on she lost a lot due to excessive tequila drinking, I think."
  children:
  - author:
      name: mpolino
    body: font player, is that the same person as Oum Kalthoum. Brilliant. Bizarre
      but brilliant. Good call.
    created: '2006-04-27 04:20:54'
  created: '2006-04-25 03:29:22'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: "I love classical while working. Mostly classical guitar stuff - Bach, and
    some spanish composers like Rodrigo. In the pop/rock vein: David Gray, Coldplay,
    Wilco and Neil Finn get consistent play. But I've been listening to Joanna Newsom
    all day (heard one of her songs on an animated short here at the Nashville Film
    Festival on Saturday. Very interesting stuff (link to a quicktime video if you're
    interested).\r\n\r\nhttp://www.dragcity.com/bands/newsom.html"
  created: '2006-04-25 04:14:26'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "yo Steven,\r\n\r\ni have never seen the white stripes in concert, but it's
    something my lady and i want to do next time they are in town. we have one of
    their DVDs (under blackpool lights) and it totally rocks! i have all their albums
    and they seriously are one of my favorite bands.\r\n\r\na speaker at the Y conference
    recently told us that she had a theory about all graphic designers secretly wishing
    they were rock stars. i'd say the white stripes are rock stars who secretly want
    to be graphic designers! (i mean that in the BEST possible way!)\r\n\r\n------"
  created: '2006-04-25 04:22:15'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "My guilty pleasure today: Sean Paul. He rocks.\r\n\r\nAlso I have a totally
    awesome album of 70s funk from West Africa called \"Love is a Real Thing\" puts
    Sly & Parliament to shame."
  created: '2006-04-25 06:18:37'
- author:
    name: weinziet
    picture: 110727
  body: "Ive been enjoying electronica & classical mixes. Also more more ambiet electronica
    is good to work to. A short list of music:\r\nFour Tet\r\nFurious Angels\r\nProdigy\r\nCrystal
    Method\r\nFischerspooner\r\nMozart, Beethoven\r\nThe Orb\r\nUnderworld\r\nThe
    Faint\r\nMassive Attack\r\nalso hip hop- Handsome boy modeling school, jurassic
    5, beastie boys, the streets -funny british stuff"
  created: '2006-04-25 14:40:59'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote -  puts Sly & Parliament to shame.\r\n\r\nI'm sorry but this is not
    possible. You are talking about two of the bedrocks of funk. Next thing I know
    you'll say James Brown is Fela Kuti's weak sister. :)\r\n\r\n========\r\n\r\nquote
    - I love classical while working. Mostly classical guitar stuff - Bach, and some
    spanish composers like Rodrigo.\r\n\r\nI recently saw Pepe Romero at a church
    in Pasadena playing a program of Spanish music. It was sublime! He can play Asturias
    by Albeniz like no one else. There were 3 encores.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-25 14:58:20'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "I always thought Fela was overrated. Saw him once and he was an arrogant
    prick onstage - there would be like 10 mins between songs. Plus he was a polygamist.\r\n\r\nAlso
    recently rediscovered Grandmaster Flash. Not for working, tho."
  created: '2006-04-25 16:19:13'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The first Grandmaster Flash 12\" single was a revelation. Incredible\u2026\r\n\r\nFela
    had a big influence on James Brown. When he returned from his trip to Africa in
    the late 60s, his music became more political\u2026\r\n\r\nBTW - my forebearers
    are mostly Mormons. My great-great uncle had 16 wives. Always wondered about that.
    One is more than enough for me\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-25 17:37:05'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"One is more than enough for me\u2026 :)\"\r\n\r\nLOL!!! Imagine the \"Honey-do\"
    list from 16 of them! :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-25 17:52:52'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.mugshots.com/IMAGES/PMugshot__james-brown.jpg\" target=\"_blank\">\"The
    Hardest-Working Man in Show Business\" has a bad hair day</a> (funny if you haven't
    seen it and can get past the sad part)\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 17:53:41'
- author:
    name: Randy
    picture: 110731
  body: 'at this very moment ... The Postal Service : District Sleeps Alone Tonight'
  created: '2006-04-25 19:22:47'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "at <em>this</em> moment:\r\n\r\nforeigner - waiting for a girl like you\r\n\r\n;
    )\r\n\r\niPods are so random\u2026"
  created: '2006-04-25 21:18:28'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Mo Bob. Stop me, please\u2026\r\n\r\nhttp://gbv.com/sounds/DancingGirlsAndDancingMen.mp3\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 22:01:19'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: "I am listening to Public Radio being taken over by commercial interests and
    yet ask for sponsorship from their listeners. An example: This weather forcast
    is brought to you by (corporation) and maybe a description of their product or
    services. Another: Our arts relationship with (corporation, or club) presenting
    (artist) you can get tickets by calling\u2026. Then in the next breathe: we can't
    do it without listeners like you, become a member. The non profits have more commercials
    per hour than commercial radio. So sad"
  created: '2006-04-25 22:19:15'
- author:
    name: R
  body: "right now, im listening to, Nerd, Lapdance... oh, it ended, \r\ncurrent one
    is Boudewijn de Groot, Verdronken Vlinder (its dutch) folksinger of sorts.. kinda
    like simon and garfunkel whom are definitely my hero's, musical wise.."
  created: '2006-04-25 22:21:03'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Dan,\r\nOur public radio station here sent out a survey saying they were
    thinking of dumping classical music and going more talk crap instead (note my
    hint of bias). There was a outcry of NO! from far and wide.  I sent them several
    letters of protest telling them if they dumped classical music my donation days
    were over.\r\nThe next week they dumped classical music.  The next day I got a
    request for donation. The next day I wrote another hot note. The nextweek I got
    another request for donation for their \"new improved format\". The next day I
    sent a hot email and will never send the bums another dime.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-25 22:44:11'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "We are really lucky here in LA.\r\n\r\nWe have KMZT and KUSC - 24/7 classical
    stations. KUSC tried a few years ago to change but the uproar worked.\r\n\r\nTalk
    radio is out of control\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-25 22:57:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I have a friend wh is a DJ at the radio station. She told me there were more
    complaints than attaboys with the change but the suits went with the change anyway.
    \ So much for democracy in action.  My guess is that the corporate sponsors wanted
    the change.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-25 23:01:53'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Has anyone heard of a film called Sahara Blue? Well, the soundtrack is something
    mind blowing. It's composed by Hector Zazou and lyrics are actually poems by Rimbaud.
    Cannot guarantee you will be able to listen to that AND do some work at the same
    time though. It's part in French, some songs are in Arabic and some in English...it
    would be nice to know if someone here knows it.\r\nOtherwise I love Amy Winehouse
    and Aimee Mann and Elliot Smith (loads)... "
  created: '2006-04-26 00:40:11'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am not familiar with that one Lorenza. Sounds intriguing though.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-26 00:46:22'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Hector Zazou is playing here in LA with Peter Buck, Fred Chalemor, Matt Chamberlain,
    Robert Fripp and Bill Rieflin. The project is called Slow Music.\r\n\r\nThere's
    an amazing film that tells the story of the Gypsies through music. It's called
    Latcho Drom. It starts in India and works it's way into jazz, etc\u2026\r\n\r\nReally
    beautiful film. I have the soundtrack and you can rent it at my local video store.
    \r\n\r\nThere's an amazing segment with Taraf de Haidouks where an old man is
    playing the violin. He has stripped all the horse hairs off of the bow except
    one. It is the most haunting sound\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-26 00:59:20'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "For 20th Century classical fans, I love the stirring dissonance of\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0000041W9/\" target=\"_blank\"><em>Scriabin's
    Piano Sonatas</em></a>\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-04-26 01:56:40'
- author:
    name: claes
    picture: 111435
  body: 'currently: the Broken Flowers soundtrack.'
  created: '2006-04-26 03:31:18'
- author:
    name: radiantice
    picture: 111025
  body: "forStars, Sondre Lerche, Aqualung. Mellow stuff indeed.\r\nBut for people
    who are interested in downloading some music legally (from non mainstream musicians
    mostly), there's www.epitonic.com"
  created: '2006-04-26 04:37:16'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'm headed out to the Coachella Festival this weekend. Should be enough music
    to last me for a while\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-26 04:41:31'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: The Sisters of Mercy
  created: '2006-04-26 07:30:39'
- author:
    name: ak
  body: esther venrooy's immaculate 'shift coordinate points' (from entracte.co.uk)
  created: '2006-04-26 13:28:28'
- author:
    name: terryw
    picture: 109820
  body: "<em>Also more more ambient electronica is good to work to</em>\r\nAgreed:
    Stereolab, Japancakes, Stereolab, William Caslon Experience, Stereolab, Beck,
    Stereolab, Julian Cope, and some Stereolab."
  created: '2006-04-26 14:12:47'
- author:
    name: IC
    picture: 111546
  body: "pink martini | Hang on Little Tomato\r\n\r\npink martini | Sympathique"
  created: '2006-04-26 14:51:29'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Anyone else here not recognizing almost everything mentioned? I guess there
    is no more getting around it. I am an official antique.
  created: '2006-04-26 15:00:03'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Hey Paul, haunting is exactly the word I was looking for!\r\nHector Zazou
    in LA...now THAT  is cool. I wouldn't miss it."
  created: '2006-04-26 15:14:41'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Then come on down\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-26 15:25:43'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - I am an official antique.\r\n\r\nThat just means your value went
    up\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nOf course those chips, dents and cracks are going to impact
    the asking price. And don't listen to Antiques Roadshow. Clean yourself regularly.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-26 15:26:50'
- author:
    name: Wouter Spaak
    picture: 110641
  body: "Currently listening to Art Brut - Rusted Guns of Milan.\r\n\r\nCurrent favourites:\r\n\r\nArt
    Brut\r\nRobert Pollard\r\nJens Lekman\r\nClap Your Hands Say Yeah!\r\nBoards of
    Canada\r\nBand of Horses"
  created: '2006-04-26 16:48:37'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Another Pollard fan!\r\n\r\n(Boards of Canada, what I've heard, is really
    nice.)"
  created: '2006-04-26 17:45:59'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "I don't know if this makes sense. I mean, everyone says what's listening
    to while working, but they do the same on music forums.\r\n\r\nWhat was interesting
    was the association proposed at the thread's beginning: what's the relationship
    between your design and the music you relate to it.\r\n\r\nPersonally I did often
    in the past the opposite: I played certain things as I worked on early creative
    stages of alphabets. I recall I did it with Neoritmo: since the face was a destructured/restructured
    approach to the classic lapidary/roman framework, I played alternatively traditional
    rock and pop, as well as things evocating the Roman Empire in modern context.
    Examples which could apply:\r\n\r\nKilling Joke - Rubicon (and the whole \"Brighter\u2026\"
    album)\r\nIggy Pop - American Caesar\r\nPsychic TV - Slur\r\nSigue Sigue Sputnik
    - How do U Dream Little Caesar\r\nMorcheeba - Rome Wasn't Built in A Day\r\nAnthrax
    - American Pompeii\r\nCulture - Roman Soldiers of Babylon\r\nand so on\u2026\r\n\r\nI
    did the same with a face I have not released as well, recently. The thing is very
    very destructured and meant to convey a sense of the future, so I played an album
    I just discovered (in 2004), which is The Human League's debut album \"Reproduction\"
    from 1979.\r\nIf you are used to the \"crappy\" pop done by Phil Oakley in mid-1980s
    you should check the original first two albums of the band, which convey an unsurpassed
    sense of \"the future\".\r\n\"Black Celebration\" by Depeche Mode would have been
    equally suited. A masterpiece of a concept album. Considered it's from 1986, it's
    optimistic considered what we live right now."
  created: '2006-04-26 18:45:31'
- author:
    name: piccic
    picture: 110375
  body: "BTW, I think music while you work is better suited in stages of repetitive
    tasks, or less creative ones.\r\n\r\nAnd of course you should be working alone
    (like in type design at home). I can't stand music, talking, noise et al, where
    I work. It's almost a nightmare, since I can't concentrate, so music becomes the
    opposite: a force of hindrance."
  created: '2006-04-26 18:50:22'
- author:
    name: geraintf
    picture: 110492
  body: "marcos valle..\r\n\r\ngreat stuff!"
  created: '2006-04-26 21:02:25'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: There is a fund drive coming up at this non profit Jazz station, now tell
    me if this isn't as or more commercial than a commercial station selling soap.
    Along with the sponsorship ads for every news reports and the constant begging
    for listener support, now they are asking for local businesses to donate food
    and beverages. Well what happens is after the fund drive they advertise those
    businesses until the next fund drive. So most of an hour is dedicated to raising
    funds. I get more music from my commercial classical station WQXR who is owned
    by the New York Times than WBGO. Sad
  created: '2006-04-26 21:33:26'
- author:
    name: jonbruns
    picture: 111345
  body: "Great topic. I am currently listening to Iron and Wine live. Love to work
    to Sigur Ros, Mogwai, Radiohead, DangerDOOM, Mos Def, D'Angelo.\r\nAlso great
    to work to jazz (Monk, Trane, Mingus)."
  created: '2006-04-26 22:04:40'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Official antique? How charming, I love vintage! \r\nDefinetely great to work
    with jazz (cool californian...like Paul) with my cat sleeping on my lap and a
    glass of red (maybe not Californian, though). What else do you need in life?"
  created: '2006-04-27 02:16:34'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "<a href=\"http://www.dephazz.com/\" target=\"_blank\">De Phazz!</a>\r\n\r\nWith
    broadband, I've found my CDs gathering dust. I have a \"VIP\" subscription to
    <a href=\"http://www.live365.com\" target=\"_blank\">Live365.com</a> -- very cheap,
    like just a few bucks a month! And if something comes along I like, I investigate
    further via P2P. And if I really, really like it, I may even buy a copy eventually.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    on Live365, you can do keyword searches and make your own playlist. Some of the
    \"stations\" are just a few hours looped, but others update pretty frequently.
    Type in \"mozart\" or \"soul\" or \"gogos\" and see what comes up!\r\n\r\nGenres?
    From artful 50s/60s jazz I've branched out to that whole new realm of nu jazz,
    chill, trip-hop, etc. De Phazz is my new favorite thing. Indian classical is great
    for working-- being an ignorant Westerner, I don't get caught up in any \"meaning\"
    that may be there-- it just lets my brainwaves float along. And that's really
    the key for most working music-- just enough to move the brain along, without
    \"knowing\" too much of what I'm hearing.\r\n\r\nAnd sometimes silence is golden."
  created: '2006-04-27 02:39:35'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Definetely great to work with jazz (cool californian\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\nAn
    acquired taste, but Chet Baker's singing is a nice change of pace."
  created: '2006-04-27 03:42:43'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - if you have to talk about music like that, you aren\u2019t enjoying
    it as much as you should\r\n\r\nThere is no CPA for taste.\r\n\r\nEveryones experience
    is different, thankfully.\r\n\r\nLiving on the edge of the world\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  children:
  - author:
      name: mpolino
    body: "agreed, I just always think I am right.  Need to get over that...as well
      as my need to speak(type)before thinking. Peace\r\n"
    created: '2006-04-27 04:33:51'
  created: '2006-04-27 04:32:13'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: peace
  created: '2006-04-27 04:36:15'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>font player, is that the same person as Oum Kalthoum. Brilliant. Bizarre
    but brilliant. Good call</cite>\r\n\r\nYes I have it spelled both ways on CDs.
    (forgot to mention that)\r\n\r\nKudos for being able to \"grok\" it.\r\n\r\nBtw,
    as best I can make out, when she does something particularly moving, and you hear
    the audience break into applause, apparently it was customary to then repeat that
    section as sort of an immediate encore. This probably being a factor in each CD
    containing only one song. \r\n\r\nOne I can recommend is the \"Rubaiyat of Omar
    Khayyam\". "
  created: '2006-04-27 05:30:10'
- author:
    name: alexfjelldal
    picture: 109596
  body: "My favorite work soundtracks:\r\n\u2013 Norwegian Public Broadcasting\r\n\u2013
    22 Pistepirkko\r\n\u2013 The Shins\r\n\u2013 System of a Down\r\n\u2013 Wilco\r\n\u2013
    Jan Johansson\r\n\r\nHas anyone mentioned Type 0 Negative yet?\r\n\r\nI tried
    typeradio, but I don't know. They lost me when explaining how the dot over the
    'i' was actually semen spurting out of a penis."
  created: '2006-04-27 08:00:02'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "2 Days offline and so much to read, but this made me laugh out loud\r\n\r\nChris:\r\nA
    strange bald guy singing Don Giovanni arias alone in a crowded subway is not a
    pretty sight :-)\r\n\r\nI want to see it pleeeease :-)\r\n\r\nto istitch\r\nAbout
    the graphic designers secretly wishing they were rock stars theory. In Germany
    there is a dj(The Frank Popp Ensemble) who is a graphic designer and in his contract
    he has the clause that every artwork has to be done by himself. Some nice works,
    I think.\r\nhttp://www.frankpopp.com/"
  created: '2006-04-27 10:55:24'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi 'Ya All:\r\n\r\nI definitely have different tastes from most of you guys
    here. The genres I listen to while working (creating graphics) are:\r\n\r\nUnderground
    Disco, Deep House, Jazzy House, Classic House, Disco House, (I really love all
    shades of house), Bossa Nova, Afro-Beat, lots of electronic down-tempo, and some
    strange pop tracks thrown in for fun!\r\n\r\n\r\nSongs and artists rocking my
    world:\r\n\r\nFlunk- Blue Monday (Blue States Remix)\r\nI:Cube- Disco Cubism (Daft
    Punk Remix)\r\nGrace Jones - La Vie en Rose\r\nRoyksopp- Remind Me (Tom Middleton
    Cosmos Mix)\r\nAqua Bassino- We Could Be Friends\r\nTerra Deva- Fresh Start (House
    Remix)\r\nTerra Deva- Speak Low\r\nAya- Uptown (Trentemoller Mix)\r\n[re:jazz]-
    Donaueschingen (Andre Lodemann Club Mix)\r\nAquanote- Only (Weekender Vocal)\r\n\r\nMy
    very specials:\r\nDaft Punk- Indo Silver Club\r\nLisa Shaw- Always (Lovetronic
    Vocal)\r\nMartinez- Autumn Jazz Ep....every single track is fabulous\r\n\r\nMy
    favorite track of ALL time (featuring a gorgeous smokey atmosphere):\r\n\r\nDalminjo:
    Repetitiveness\r\n\r\nYes... sometimes I stop working so I can dance(or sing).
    I enjoy myself non-the-less and I do accomplish what I intended.\r\n\r\nSee you
    guys later,\r\n\r\n\r\nMike D\r\n\r\nPS... And yes, all these tracks can be found
    on iTunes ;)"
  created: '2006-04-27 12:09:10'
- author:
    name: Stephen Lording
    picture: 109670
  body: "Nice to see a couple of Mingus fans amongst this list. His music is just
    so intense and so full of soul, and his album <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000003N81/qid=1146136767/sr=2-3/ref=pd_bbs_b_2_3/103-1941714-1125448?s=music&v=glance&n=5174\">The
    Blank Saint and the Sinner Lady</a> introduced me to one of my longtime favourite
    fonts, Profil! <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000003N7Y/qid=1146136767/sr=2-2/ref=pd_bbs_b_2_2/103-1941714-1125448?s=music&v=glance&n=5174\">Mingus
    Mingus Mingus Mingus Mingus</a>, <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00000I14Z/ref=pd_bxgy_text_b/103-1941714-1125448?%5Fencoding=UTF8\">Mingus
    Ah Um</a>, <a href=\"http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00000287S/qid=1146137230/sr=11-1/ref=sr_11_1/103-1941714-1125448?n=5174\">Let
    My Children Hear Music</a>... all incredible. I also like a daily dip into my
    5- and 4-star rated Thelonious Monk, Dave Brubeck, Duke Ellington and Jimmy Smith
    tracks. (Gotta love rating tracks in iTunes).\r\n\r\nIn the non-jazz world, I'm
    always listening to White Stripes, Radiohead, Spiderbait, Art of Fighting, Rocket
    Science and They Might Be Giants. "
  created: '2006-04-27 12:34:28'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Mike, Royksopp- Remind Me is beautiful, I couldn't stop watching the animation...it's
    so gentle...\r\nAnd for the days you need to do some physical work...like carrying
    your stuff around, mounting boards, cut stuff, put some order in your studio etc....I
    suggest some Henry Mancini so you can dance around at the sound of it and have
    some fun.\r\n\r\nDennis...acquired taste? Can you expand on that?\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 13:29:56'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>and Jimmy Smith</cite>\r\n\r\nAll the more enjoyable when you realize
    on most of his stuff he was playing bass with his feet, and track that at the
    same time. Some of the up-tempo things, both hands and both feet are going for
    it, so it gets pretty amazing.\r\n\r\n<cite>Dennis\u2026acquired taste? Can you
    expand on that?</cite>\r\n\r\nChet's singing style is certainly not mainstream,
    but I found that it grew on me. Of course some of his trumpet work is classic. "
  created: '2006-04-27 14:10:09'
- author:
    name: magnus_rakeng
    picture: 109817
  body: "Ramones\r\nMorrissey\r\nThe Hellacopters\r\nKraftwerk\r\nLeftfield\r\nMogwai\r\nThe
    Streets\r\nJokke & Valentinerne\r\nNew Order\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 14:17:13'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I like Chet Baker's singing. Like Raymond Chandler, that cool sound could
    only have come from Cali\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-27 15:06:26'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>I like Chet Baker\u2019s singing. Like Raymond Chandler, that cool
    sound could only have come from Cali\u2026\r\npeace<cite/>\r\n\r\nIsn't it amazing
    how Chet's voice sounded more and more like his horn as he aged? Ever see the
    film \"Let's get lost\"? It is way out of print, but it is really good. The soundtrack
    is good as well if you can find it. He really does a nice version of Costello's
    \"Almost Blue\"."
  created: '2006-04-27 16:29:15'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'll be looking for it\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-27 17:43:45'
- author:
    name: BruceS63
    picture: 111542
  body: Gipsy Kings' Allegria CD
  created: '2006-04-27 17:59:33'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "The Streets? Are you kidding? Is that popular in Norway? I thought it was
    such an English fenomena. That's pure chav spirit...do you guys have chavs in
    Oslo?\r\nI think they are brilliant. Not the chavs...the Streets."
  created: '2006-04-27 18:03:01'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "The Poncho Sanchez Latin-jazz band was playing at this coffeshop, and it
    was pleasant to work to.\r\n\r\n(I think Jupiter boy forgot to \"/cite\" and now
    everythang is italicked)"
  created: '2006-04-27 20:55:25'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Thanks Lore:\r\n\r\nI do love Henri Mancini too. I bought the Pink Panther's
    Penthouse Party cd- loved it. But I loved it so much I lost it. I miss that disc.
    [tears welling up]\r\n\r\nUltra Lounge compilations are also really good for old
    funky jazzy tunes. Crime Scene is da bomb. [yes i said da bomb]\r\n\r\nBy-the-way....
    Does anyone listen to Jean Michel Jarre (the god father of French electronic music)???
    Very deep relaxing tracks.\r\n\r\nSmiles and Winks,\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-04-28 01:09:02'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Jean Michel Jarre...I still remember the concert in Houston Texas...on TV!
    Someone told me his stuff was obsessive and repetitive. I find it liberating...
  created: '2006-04-28 02:37:50'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hi Lore:\r\n\r\nWowsers you actually saw that! I was a little kid then. But
    it was when I was a little kid that I first started listening to electronic music.\r\n\r\nDo
    you remember the Equinoxe cd? The first track is amazing!!! And the other album
    I love is the one with the big yellow ear on it... I think its called Cousteau
    in Concert.\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\nLiberatingly Yours,\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-04-28 03:59:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "If you're looking for obsessive and repetitive and liberating, you might
    want to listen to Terry Riley \"In C\". It was the first minimalist classical
    recording released and led to Steve Reich, Phillip Glass, Laurie Anderson, John
    Adams and many great pieces of music. It is a classic record\u2026\r\n\r\nYou
    might also want to try out Balinese Gamelan\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-28 05:12:46'
- author:
    name: al_x
    picture: 109435
  body: Burt Bacharach's 'Casino Royale'
  children:
  - author:
      name: jupiterboy
      picture: 109773
    body: "<cite>Burt Bacharach\u2019s \u2018Casino Royale\u2019<cite/>\r\n\r\nOh
      Dusty, my beautiful self-deprocating amazon with a voice so out of this world\u2026"
    created: '2006-05-03 16:54:33'
  created: '2006-04-28 17:15:04'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "I'm a not-so-closet metalhead at heart.\r\n\r\nShadows Fall\r\nCOC\r\nOpeth\r\nChildren
    of Bodom\r\nDragonforce! *woot!\r\nEvergrey\r\nElvenking\r\nKamelot\r\nHelloween\r\nIn
    Flames\r\nSoil\r\nSoilwork\r\nMegadeth\r\n\r\nMost of these, if not all these
    artists hae MySpace pages, if you wanna listen. Dragonforce is my latest, Upbeat
    power metal. Hey Paul, keep it Metal!"
  created: '2006-04-29 02:33:04'
- author:
    name: Kathleen L
  body: "Right now I am listening to The Weepies, Katie Herzig, and Margot & the Nuclear
    So and So's in constant rotation. All music I've discovered in the past month
    or so and totally love all of them.\r\n\r\nYou can find them all on iTunes, myspace
    or at\r\nwww.katieherzig.com\r\nwww.theweepies.com\r\nwww.margotandthenuclearsoandsos.com\r\n\r\nI
    also love to listen to Rhett Miller when I'm really into working on something...www.rhettmiller.com"
  created: '2006-04-29 06:40:27'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "Kathleen, my wife and I are huge fans of \"The Weepies\" - do yourself a
    big favor and catch them live. Takes your breath away.\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Kathleen L
    body: I actually saw them live in Nashville two weeks ago--really amazing. Can't
      get over Deb Talan's voice. Can't wait til they come back.
    created: '2006-04-29 18:33:49'
  created: '2006-04-29 16:11:42'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "Hey, hold on a second! I was a kid too! Ok, a teenager maybe...11-12? I still
    have the tape of Equinoxe somewhere! A tape!!!! And a Philip Glass vinyl...how
    can you get rid of these kind of things? You can't. Paul: I'm writing it all down...\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-29 17:20:33'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: Anyone of you plays in a band!?
  created: '2006-04-29 18:24:08'
- author:
    name: Celeste
    picture: 111293
  body: "These days, my Top Five reads as follows :\r\nCalexico <cite>Crystal Frontier</cite>\r\nAntony
    & the Johnsons <cite>Fistful of Love</cite>\r\nCandi Staton <cite>I'm Just a Prisoner
    (of Your Good Lovin')</cite>\r\nTownes van Zandt <cite>Kathleen</cite>\r\nEmmylou
    Harris <cite>Boulder to Birmingham</cite>"
  created: '2006-04-29 18:45:44'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - Anyone of you plays in a band!?\r\n\r\nI was a professional musician
    for many years, really fun, really hard, now I'm an AD, really fun, really hard\u2026\r\n\r\nLife
    is funny that way.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-02 02:26:30'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "quote - Anyone of you plays in a band!?\r\n\r\nI was a professional musician
    for many years, but I dropped out of the biz when I realized I was probably going
    to be an official alchoholic. \r\n\r\nMany places we played gave free drinks to
    the band, and I was compelled to take advantage of that. Not to mention the other
    influences of the life-style seemed dead-endish (drugs, married women forgetting
    to mention the married part, etc.)\r\n\r\nThe deciding night was when one drunk
    asked to sing The Yellow Rose of Texas, and then proceded to bend over and sing
    the whole thing into the weighted end of the boom-stand. Then at the intermission
    another drunk walks up to the drummer and says, \"Hey man, I used to play the
    drums.\" And then passed out into the middle of the kit, sending cymbals and drums
    rolling off in various directions, while the drummer just sat there stunned, looking
    at the guy laying where his drumset used to be.\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-05-02 02:37:41'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: Where can I find some tracks to listen to you?
  created: '2006-05-02 19:21:43'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "The stuff I recorded would probably only be found in a Mexican Dr. Demento
    show. But you can hear the guys I used to play with in Norwalk, Poncho Sanchez
    and the Banda Brothers: Ramon (Mon) and Tony.\r\n\r\nThey kept at it, and have
    been pretty successful. The break came after Poncho was asked to fill in for Cal
    Tjader's regular conga player, and Cal asked him to stay. When Cal died (stranding
    the band in Japan), Poncho was able to sign with the same label (Concord). The
    early versions of his band was manned by some of my college classmates. \r\n\r\nThe
    stories I'd hear of European tours of 11 concerts in 9 countries in 8 days (or
    something like that), then coming back to LA for a gig, then the same night taking
    a red-eye flight to Mexico for a jazz festival really scared me. It sounded grueling.
    On the plus side they did get to play with many of the people who were our heroes. "
  created: '2006-05-02 20:40:29'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - Where can I find some tracks to listen to you?\r\n\r\nSearch Paul
    B. Cutler - that's me\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-03 00:45:06'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: You list Blue Cheer as an influence? That seems strange to me in that when
    I lived in a trailor in Laguna Canyon, they practiced in the house right above
    me. They used to drive me nuts because they would jam for hours, seemingly all
    day, in one key (Being rock musicians, I'm guessing G). That is all I remember.
  created: '2006-05-03 01:24:36'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Blue Cheer was the redneck acidhead answer to the San Fran psychedelic scene.
    Louder. Just like the first Alice Cooper album was the alcoholic Arizonan poke
    in the eye to the hippies. And Roky Erikson and the 13th Floor Elevators was the
    Texan take\u2026\r\n\r\nThose were fun times\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-03 02:16:00'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: The past few days I have mostly been listening to Neko Case's latest, "Fox
    Confessor Brings the Flood"... Probably a good way to get tired of it real soon,
    but I can't get enough of it for now.  :-)
  created: '2006-05-03 02:55:19'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>Just like the first Alice Cooper album was the alcoholic Arizonan poke
    in the eye to the hippies.</cite>\r\n\r\nWow, you have a context for all that.
    I'm impressed. I was so into jazz at the time, I couldn't find a place for it."
  created: '2006-05-03 03:55:02'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I was trained as a classical pianist and played Saxophone and French Horn
    then I found the guitar.\r\n\r\nI started with jazz as soon as ZIggy Stardust
    came out.\r\n\r\nEventually worked my way into the avant garde: The Art Ensemble
    of Chicago, Muhal Richard Abrams, Cecil Taylor, etc\u2026\r\n\r\nThen avant garde
    classical music: Stockhausen, Mauricio Kagel, John Cage, etc\u2026\r\n\r\nThen
    Roxy Music and when punk rock hit I was in all the way\u2026\r\n\r\nIt was really
    fun.\r\n\r\nThe great thing about those albums I mentioned is that they're not
    music. They're some thing beyond music. A bunch of young crazy guys with guitars
    and really loud amps. Rock has been absolutely vigorous from time to time\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-03 04:09:07'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "As a music related tangent, have you seen Christopher Walken's <a href=\"http://www.geekspeakweekly.com/cowbell/tunes/walkencowbell.mp3\"
    target=\"_blank\">\"More Cowbell\"</a> skit on Saturday night live. \r\n\r\n\"I
    have a fever, and the only presription is <strong>more cowbell!</strong>\" "
  created: '2006-05-03 06:51:37'
- author:
    name: Ampersanderson
    picture: 111498
  body: "I been switching back and forth between three albums while going between
    a random mix of jazz:\r\n\r\n- Yeah Yeah Yeahs, Show Your Bones\r\n- Built to
    Spill, You in Reverse\r\n- Roots Manuva, Alternately Deep\r\n\r\nI've been working
    on two projects: a project for a Scion event and my BFA show. The energy is necessary."
  created: '2006-05-03 07:23:32'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - \u201CI have a fever, and the only presription is more cowbell!\u201D\r\n\r\nHaving
    had all the Spinal Tap things happen to me has turned things like this into horror,
    not comedy. I can watch Spinal Tap now and find it funny, but it's funny in a
    very tragic sense\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-03 15:55:57'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "...Brian Ferry is considered one of the greatest Brits alive, it's amazing
    how he reinvented himself as an aristocrat when in fact he came from a working
    class background...and now his son is campaigning for fox hunting and all that.
    Weird stuff.\r\nI was into Frank Zappa at the time, I think...although I was really
    young at the time (I had a very ecletic musical taste for a teenager) Valley Girl
    is one of my favourites...\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-03 17:19:05'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I really liked the first four Mothers of Invention albums with \"We're Only
    In It For The Money\" being my favorite. I felt he turned on his audience after
    that and started talking down to them instead of with them. Just my take\u2026\r\n\r\nLove
    the Roxy Music albums with Eno and Avalon is also an amazing record!\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-03 17:40:22'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: And, as you probably know, even Pierre Boulez (le marteau sans maitre)and
    Kent Nagano used some of Zappa's classical pieces...
  created: '2006-05-04 16:13:03'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "There is no doubt that for a short time Zappa was taken seriously by the
    classical community. But he didn't fall far enough from the Schoenberg tree to
    have a lasting impact. Don't get me wrong, lore, Frank Zappa had a tremendous
    effect on my life.\r\n\r\nMy favorite quote: \"Quit school and go to the library\"\r\n\r\nHis
    liner notes for Absolutely Free credited a pantheon of 20th Century composers
    and artists, many of whom influenced me also.\r\n\r\nPartly because of him I had
    the courage to conduct my life as an autodidact\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-04 17:46:51'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Btw, <a href=\"http://www.fontplay.com/images2/angieitalic.jpg\" target=\"_blank\">Here
    is a photo I took Easter morning of our bass player, Javier Bojorquez.</a> (The
    text refers to a bad translation in a game) We couldn't afford a bass player with
    8 strings, but Javier does pretty good with only 7. (poeple from Tijuana, MX tend
    to be resourseful)\r\n: )\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-05 00:52:28'
- author:
    name: Kathleen L
  body: I just started listening to Jacob Borshard. He's indy, he plays the ukelele,
    he's awesome. You can download both of his albums for free on his website... http://www.creebobby.com/
  created: '2006-05-05 01:17:28'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Great pic, fontplayer. That's one heck of a bass. More strings than I play.
    Actually thinking of having a 4 string guitar made for me\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-05 02:08:23'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "He has a fretless version too. Does some cool things sliding chords through
    changes. Unlike me, this guy is the real deal. Same with our  drummer, who has
    toured with Jose Feliciano and other credits that escape me. The acoutic guitarist
    is a clinician for Martin. The electric guitarist rips too. I'm pretty much the
    only person doing the smoke and mirrors thing.\r\n\r\nWell, I have to quit for
    a while. No way I'm taking the lead on the prolific poster list. Hmmm...\r\n\r\nI
    like them all. The XYZ thing is intriguing. I got the impression you are in SoCal?
    Let me know if you are exhibiting the collection anywhere."
  created: '2006-05-05 02:14:00'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "For the last 8 years I've been designing and building instruments. I have
    an ensemble called International Metal Supply with a friend of mine from France.
    Here's some photos of the instruments:\r\n\r\nThe Buddhaphone:\r\nhttp://pages.sbcglobal.net/pbc1313/allgraphic/ims/buddhaphone.html\r\n\r\nThe
    Void\r\nhttp://pages.sbcglobal.net/pbc1313/allgraphic/ims/thevoid.html\r\n\r\nXYZinium\r\nhttp://pages.sbcglobal.net/pbc1313/allgraphic/ims/xyzinium.html\r\n\r\nWe
    recently played at Redcat in Disney Hall doing the soundtrack for a silent film:\r\nKurutta
    Ippeiji (A Page of Madness) (1927) by Teinosuke Kinugasa\r\n\r\nAnd collaborated
    on the soundtrack for A Darkness Swallowed by Betsy Bromberg.\r\n\r\nIt's a lot
    of fun and hard work building these. California is a hotbed of percussion inventors\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-05 02:25:04'
- author:
    name: istitch
    picture: 111061
  body: "i used play in a band in high school, but for the past ten years i have just
    been a solo artist, recording music and playing on my own\u2026\r\n\r\n(drums,
    bass, guitar, vocals\u2026 mostly just guitar and vocals now)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 19:38:04'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "Hey Paul:\r\n\r\nI would really like to hear a sample of these \"instruments\"
    : )\r\nAnywhere a website where I can listen to something!?\r\n\r\nAnyone know
    Janko Nilovic!? \r\nI love him, really funky music!\r\n\r\nSteven"
  created: '2006-05-08 16:14:12'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "These are not \"instruments\". They're instruments\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nI'll try
    to post an MP3\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-08 16:16:44'
- author:
    name: gcincinnati
  body: "I think that you'll ALL enjoy this website, if you haven't gotten to it yet..\r\n\r\nwww.pandora.com\r\n\r\nand
    for the record.. my working music usually comes back to Underworld, Esthero and
    Hooverphonic. I think I may have too much of those three to have a fair shot at
    shuffling the iPod.\r\n\r\n______\r\n\"They always say time changes things, but
    you actually have to change them yourself.\" -Andy Warhol"
  created: '2006-05-08 21:30:04'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "As requested many moons ago:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://pages.sbcglobal.net/pbc1313/allgraphic/ims/actinium.html\">Music
    for Typographers or Not\u2026</a>\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-21 00:02:09'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/slikHELVETICA_4256.jpg]\r\n\r\n\r\nHa
    ha ha ! !!!  "
  created: '2006-05-21 02:04:25'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Nathan Fake, Tipper, and Anthony Payne's reconstruction of Elgar's Third.
  created: '2006-05-21 02:37:58'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: Glen Gould playing Bach is great, my kids have me listening to Pink Floyd,
    especially "Money" and "Another Brick in the Wall." Coltrane (anything) and Miles
    Davis (anything). Can't listen and work at the same time though.
  created: '2006-05-21 12:56:08'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "If anyone wants to check out my trio, <a href=\"http://www.riverrep.com/Corcovado.mp3\"
    target=\"_blank\">here's</a> an MP3.\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-05-21 15:29:09'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Michael - Very nice. I love that song.\r\n\r\nFloating in the silence that
    surrounds me\u2026\r\n\r\nDo you find that music has helped define your artistic
    viewpoint when it comes to design?\r\n\r\nI do\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-21 17:35:56'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "Definitely. Part of music's appeal is its <strong><em>challenge</em></strong>
    (to both artist and audience). Music requires effective decisions between lots
    of variables; it must balance chaos & order, passion & logic, expectations fulfilled
    & thwarted, objectivity & subjectivity, humor & humorlessness, and so much more.\r\n\r\nI
    think graphic design balances many of these same dynamics, as do many other artforms
    (and crafts).\r\n\r\nWhat does everyone else think about this? Do you feel that
    your appreciation of music is analogous to your appreciation of design? Do you
    \"respect\" the same types of \"solutions\"?\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-05-22 00:58:50'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Most of my artistic viewpoints were formed by music, since I've been playing
    all my life. I came to design later and music will always be the deepest in my
    heart.\r\n\r\nAll these decisions you talk about are essentially ones philosophy.
    I discovered in my mid-20s that the act of playing guitar was no longer a technique,
    it was a philosophy. That is the same way I feel about design. I take it on faith
    that if I pay attention to my life and my beliefs, that my art will flourish as
    a result.\r\n\r\nWhen you were playing that track you were not balancing all those
    things, you already had and you were showing us the answers that you had formulated.
    Thanks for the peek\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-22 18:20:10'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "Hey gcincinnati,\r\n\r\nThank you for you hint! Pandora is great! :)\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-24 09:36:16'
- author:
    name: mwebert
    picture: 109732
  body: "But part of improvisation, at least for me, involves making these decisions
    while you play. I think musicians come to their work with a certain take on these
    dynamics - a taste, if you will, about how to balance them. But I certainly try
    to \"switch gears\" when playing in order to introduce variety.\r\n\r\nSorry if
    I hijacked the thread. :-)\r\n\r\n--Michael.\r\n\r\n------------------------------------------------------\r\n//
    love what you do or do something else. //\r\nMichael Ebert -- graphic designer,
    jazz saxophonist, horror movie devotee\r\nhttp://homepage.mac.com/mwebert\r\nmwebert@mac.com\r\n--------------"
  created: '2006-05-24 13:10:25'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Interesting. I improvise to get out of here\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nI think the most
    interesting thing about improvisation and life in general is the sense of time.\r\n\r\nA
    good description that I heard from a friend is that improvisation is like a rubber
    band, when you start stretching it it is not as pliable as when you warm it up
    a little. The more you play the farther you can stretch and still snap back.\r\n\r\nLike
    a vacation it's always good to leave, and good to return\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-24 14:17:37'
- author:
    name: oliya
    picture: 111609
  body: "...also on shuffle: morcheeba, au4, kruder&dorfmeister, nick warren, sasha,
    gotan project, \r\n\r\nBLOOM/Gabriel&Dresden, www.di.fm(progressive/chill, house),
    m\xFAm, back to mine,\r\n\r\na lot of progressive, electronica, chillout, trip-hop,
    trance, house... :)"
  created: '2006-05-24 21:13:46'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Mostly Black Throated Blues and Magnolias and the occassional Cardinal. The
    bird migration here is almost over, to bad.
  created: '2006-05-24 22:10:59'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: Lordi
  created: '2006-05-24 22:22:53'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'm surrounded by mockingbirds and crows. Also quite a few hawks around here.\r\n\r\nMockingbirds
    are my favorites, they learn hundreds or songs through their life. The more they
    know the more they get laid. I guess I better write some new songs.\r\n\r\nI love
    crows just for their Gothic presence\u2026\r\n\r\nAnd the hawks are sublime.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-25 00:51:46'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Improvization provides you with an outlook that softens the shock of change.
    You make the best of wherever you find yourself in the changes, and if doesn't
    go as planned, but you work yourself out of the jam, you can pretend it was what
    you meant to do. This last part may be easier in music than in real life.\r\n;
    ) "
  created: '2006-05-25 04:50:51'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Mockingbirds are my favorites</em>\r\n\r\nMine too. I had one that nested
    in a night-blooming jasmine tree, and I could sit in the yard and trade licks
    with him. He always smoked me, but it was an honor that he would play off some
    of my licks. And he taught me to appreciate things I hadn't got into before, like
    quartile riffs. One he liked to repeat was three rapid ascending fourths, then
    go up a half-step and do three more, then another half-step and do three more,
    then resolve it with a rapid minor-third trill. He'd repeat it until I whistled
    it right. A truely patient teacher."
  created: '2006-05-25 04:58:20'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The tree and the bird. The smell and the sound\u2026 wonder.\r\n\r\nLanguage
    is such an amazing thing. We can codify what the mockingbird was singing while
    he's just trying to successfully propagate.\r\n\r\nImprov. I have felt for many
    years that at my best I was merely grabbing music out of the air that already
    exists and will always exist and retransmitting it through the filter known as
    me.\r\n\r\nBeethoven referred to The Music of the Spheres (after Pythagorus).
    If I look up at clouds passing while listening to one of his symphonies I can
    almost understand.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-25 16:05:47'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'soundtrack to Amelie: I needed something happy.'
  created: '2006-05-26 15:53:17'
- author:
    name: ill sans
    picture: 111620
  body: "the White Stripes, the Kills, Nirvana, Mintzkov Luna, Portishead, PJ Harvey,
    PJDS, Soapstone, Stone Temple Pilots, Placebo, Violent Femmes, the Rolling Stones,
    the Kinks, Helmet, Beck, Alice In Chains, dEUS, Mauro Pawlowski, the Loved Ones,
    Moloko, Arid, T-Rex, the Dead 60's, Tom Helsen, Suede, Ryan Adams, Supergrass,
    Jamiroquai (older stuff), ...\r\nFot Belgian readers: basically 90's StuBru\r\n\r\nI
    just CAN'T work without good music!"
  created: '2006-05-27 02:43:31'
- author:
    name: ginajane
    picture: 111607
  body: "\r\nAn 80's mix:\r\n\r\nThe Go-Go's, Seal, Van Halen, REO Speedwagon.  I
    was in an 80's mood.\r\n\r\nOther times- I listen to soundtracks: Spirit, Sound
    of Music, Les Miserables, The Phantom of the Opera.\r\n\r\nand still other times:
    \ Josh Groban, Jon Schmidt, Charlotte Church\r\n\r\n*** gina jane ***\r\n\r\n'relationships
    are the greatest art'"
  created: '2006-05-27 02:56:03'
- author:
    name: gordon
  body: "on my list are david crowder* band, keith  jarret, archade fire, broken social
    scene, steve vai, queen, david gilmour, john mclaughlin's stuff (mahavishnu ochestra).
    what a long list. \r\n\r\nive got this band footchilde. if you don't mind sound
    qualities that are low, click www.purevolume.com/footchilde. \r\n\r\n& oh, how
    could i forget tom waits! "
  created: '2006-05-27 03:04:55'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: I could I forget Tom Waits!!!!! Love him to bits.
  children:
  - author:
      name: al_x
      picture: 109435
    body: "^^The other week I had the chance to see Coppola's \"One from the Heart\"
      in the cinema & I instantly fell in love with its score.\r\n\r\n...it sounds
      so darn sexy!"
    created: '2006-05-30 15:49:12'
  created: '2006-05-28 19:58:07'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The opening shot of this movie is one of my favorites\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-30 16:04:07'
- author:
    name: al_x
    picture: 109435
  body: "...yeah mine too! they really did a fabulous job on that opening sequence?!
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-01 15:37:23'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: Black Eyed Peas "Monkey Business" -- Guilty Pleasure, i know.
  created: '2006-06-02 02:23:28'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Iron Maiden \r\nHelloween\r\nFlotsam & Jetsam\r\nMastadon\r\nBillie Holiday\r\n\r\n<em>none
    guilty pleasures\u2026</em>"
  created: '2006-06-02 05:08:54'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: I love the new red hot chili peppers album!
  created: '2006-06-02 08:28:33'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong><a href=\"http://www.last.fm/group/Typophiles\">Typophile radio</a>!</strong>
    \r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2006-06-02 09:49:26'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - I love the new red hot chili peppers album!\r\n\r\nSteven - do you
    have their recent Live in Hyde Park record (released in Europe, Japan and Australia)?\r\n\r\nPlease
    buy it because I wrote one of the songs (Black Cross), I could use the royalties\u2026\r\n\r\n:)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-02 17:36:09'
- author:
    name: brampitoyo
    picture: 111612
  body: J-Fusion, especially from <a href="http://www.casiopea.co.jp">Casiopea</a>
    or T-Square. Is anyone familiar with that genre? <a href="http://www.gobytrainmusic.com">Go
    By Train</a>, a local band, is also quite good.
  created: '2006-06-03 22:35:41'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "I have every chili peppers album! So, what do you want to do with the money
    I gave to you by buying it? :]    \r\n\r\nAnd Black Cross was one of the reasons
    why i bought the album. Because they didnt released it on previous studio albums.
    I didnt know that it is a coversong. But its great. I try to find the original
    song in store. So maybe you will get more royalties soon. :]\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-04 23:48:17'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "And by the way: I will see them live next monday in dortmund! \r\n\r\nYUHHUUU!
    \r\n\r\nI hope they will play Black Cross :]"
  created: '2006-06-04 23:54:51'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The band that did the original was called 45 Grave. I was the lead guitarist
    and that was actually the first song I wrote for the band. 1981\u2026 Wow.\r\n\r\nI
    heard that John Frusciante gave a radio interview where he said that was an influential
    song for him when he was 14 or so. Much to my good fortune all these years later
    they decided to cover it.\r\n\r\nRoyalties are good, especially for something
    you did 25 years ago.\r\n\r\nI hope they play it too! Have fun\u2026 :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-05 00:55:04'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: ':( They didnt play it! But it was one of the best concerts i have seen!! '
  created: '2006-06-15 02:39:19'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: Today I was listening to Mrs. Miller. It was one of those so bad it's funny
    kind of things. It would be appropriate as background music for a catfight. Not
    only is her vibrato over the top, she had no sense of rhythm. Sometimes she'd
    start a verse two beats early and sing that whole part out of sync. Just hilarious.
    The <a href="http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B00000J600/sr=8-1/qid=1150336773/ref=pd_bbs_1/104-6597420-3591937?%5Fencoding=UTF8"
    target="_blank">reviews at Amazon</a> pretty much line up with my experience.
  created: '2006-06-15 03:05:38'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "Chairs Missing (Wire)\r\n\r\nParis 1919 (John Cale)\r\n\r\nSpasm Smash XXX
    Ox Ox Ox & Ass (Truman's Water)"
  created: '2006-06-15 04:29:01'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: "may I recommend the soundtrack of Midnight Cowboy (John Voigh and Al Pacino)?
    I hadn't heard it for ages and almost forgot how good it was.\r\n\r\nSpeaking
    of psychodelic, anyone heard of a band called Renaissance (60s/70s)? "
  created: '2006-06-21 01:40:57'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - Today I was listening to Mrs. Miller.\r\n\r\nAlong those lines (but
    a little more highbrow) I would recommend Portsmouth Sinfonia.\r\nBrian Eno put
    a bunch of beginning musicians together and recorded classical music.\r\n\r\nlore
    - I have a feeling that you would like <a href=\"http://www.danieleluppi.com/\">Danielle
    Luppi</a> \"An Italian Story\". He got together the musicians from the Ennio Marconi
    soundtracks and cut an LP. It's pretty cool\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-21 05:24:07'
- author:
    name: lore
    picture: 111437
  body: Do you mean Ennio Morricone right? Thanks, will check. I trust your musical
    taste 100%!
  created: '2006-06-21 17:33:14'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "Alright, I never use last.fm but which one of you is listening to all that
    Death Cab for Cutie?\r\n\r\nI've been listening to classical on iTunes radio and
    Virgin radio this afternoon. "
  created: '2006-06-21 21:28:16'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: In the typophile group?
  created: '2006-06-21 22:19:49'
- author:
    name: Skochii
    picture: 111030
  body: "iPod mix - Angry Grrrls featuring...Tanita Tikaram, Nina Simone, PJ Harvey,
    The Eurythmics & Marianne Faithful among others\r\n___________________________________________________________________\r\nClaude
    Garamond \u2665 Aldus Manutius \u2665 Francesco Griffo \u2665 Eric Gill \u2665
    Hermann Zapf \u2665 William Caslon \u2665 Nicholas Kis \u2665 Otl Aicher"
  created: '2006-06-22 14:55:14'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: The new Keane album - "Under The Iron Sea" great stuff...
  created: '2006-06-22 15:08:33'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: "Miss Tiffany: indeed. Closet pop music fans around here somewhere.\r\n\r\nI'm
    listening to the \"Best of the Adicts\". old UK punk anyone?"
  created: '2006-06-23 03:38:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I'm not a closet pop music fan. I'm open about it. I've been listening to
    a lot of A/R lately, but trust me when I say that my iTunes collection swings
    from Coltrane to JLo to Blur to Mazzy Star to .... My collection of music mirrors
    my moods of which I have many. :^P
  created: '2006-06-23 17:17:07'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "We can tell\u2026 :)\r\n\r\nI am an unabashed ABBA fan. Their last studio
    album being my favorite as it's the most psychedelic.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-06-23 17:48:21'
- author:
    name: ebensorkin
    picture: 109987
  body: "The new Boards of Canada - Trans Canada Highway \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-06-24 02:42:21'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "I really like Boards of Canada.\r\n\r\nSquirted a tear watchin' this. Righteous!\r\n\r\nhttp://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fga787iJ-1Q&search=Bad%20Brains%20House%20Suffering\r\n\r\nand
    if ya wanna sing along\u2026\r\n\r\nn this house of suffering\r\ni gotta let some
    joy in\r\ni hear that freedom will win\r\noh where oh where can jah love be now\r\nmy
    dear, it's here in the underground\r\ninside the hearts of your own children\r\nin
    this house of suffering\r\ni spiritualogic grin, in\r\none way grace is my friend\r\nto
    conquer doom and sin\r\nand all the nations lying\r\nwhile all our people crying\r\nand
    they stop at nothing!...nothing!...nothing!\r\nin this house of suffering\r\ndon,t
    want but just one thing\r\ngot to have my origin\r\nin this house of suffering\r\n__________________\r\n\r\nLINK
    FIXED"
  created: '2006-07-06 19:05:18'
- author:
    name: pattyfab
    picture: 109929
  body: "Loving The Raconteurs right now - Jack White's other band.\r\n\r\nAnd Gnarls
    Barkley - although it's getting too much play right now."
  created: '2006-07-06 21:03:19'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Beach Boys Essentials from iTunes
  created: '2006-07-06 21:55:06'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>Beach Boys Essentials from iTunes</cite>\r\n\r\nI still don't have
    a copy of Pet Sounds. I can't decide between the stereo and mono. Smile was a
    nice show."
  created: '2006-07-06 22:18:17'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>Smile was a nice show.</em>\r\n\r\nThe CD was pretty banal. Good for
    him for trying to get back in the saddle, but let's call a spade a spade. A pity."
  created: '2006-07-07 00:03:28'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite>The CD was pretty banal. Good for him for trying to get back in the
    saddle, but let\u2019s call a spade a spade. A pity.</cite>\r\n\r\nI'll have to
    respectfully disagree. I'm a much bigger fan of Van Dyke Parks than Mr. Wilson,
    so it was right in line with what I hoped for.\r\n\r\nDo you feel the same way
    about \"Song Cycle\"?\r\n\r\nhttp://www.ready-steady-go.org.uk/vandye.htm\r\n\r\nSundazed
    has remastered this on Vinyl, which I would recommend over the available CDs that
    sound like mud."
  created: '2006-07-07 00:10:48'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<em>I\u2019ll have to respectfully disagree. I\u2019m a much bigger fan of
    Van Dyke Parks than Mr. Wilson, so it was right in line with what I hoped for.\r\n\r\nDo
    you feel the same way about \u201CSong Cycle\u201D?</em>\r\n\r\nI'm not familiar
    with him, or Song Cycle, but I have always loved the Beach Boy harmonies. I much
    prefer the CD his kids made recently. It is sort of over-produced or something,
    but the harmonies are lovely.\r\n\r\nThe VDP stuff seems to be something that
    would go over better if one was fairly stoned. Not that I'm insinuating anything.\r\n;
    )"
  created: '2006-07-07 00:40:57'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "VDP is a great arranger. Smoke them if you have them, but it won't make any
    difference. \r\n\r\nI would be willing to bet Song Cycle is not what you might
    expect at all. It is arrestingly inventive, and so far outside the rawk genre
    as to be almost unidentifiable.\r\n\r\nA contemporary work VDP has shaped is Rufus
    Wainwright's debut. Talent like that doesn't need any enhanced state to enjoy.
    Do youself a favor and have a listen.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sundazed.com/"
  created: '2006-07-07 02:35:46'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "I'm an auto sickah font. All I listen to is my own music. I'm writiing an
    album.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-07-07 02:45:03'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: 'At this moment: Thom Yorke''s <em>Eraser</em>'
  created: '2006-07-20 15:12:39'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Thom Yorke has it. Radiohead's performance at the Coachella festival is legendary,
    at least around here\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-07-20 15:24:28'
- author:
    name: Pieter van Rosmalen
    picture: 109564
  body: American recordings V, by Johnny Cash. Very nice.
  created: '2006-07-20 16:10:28'
- author:
    name: TWalat
  body: "Been listening to \"Somerville,\" a new freebie from The Pernice Brothers
    (www.pernicebrothers.com), over and over and over ...\r\n- Tom"
  created: '2006-07-22 00:15:37'
- author:
    name: dave bailey
    picture: 128124
  body: The entire The Album Leaf discography (www.albumleaf.com)
  created: '2006-07-22 00:18:32'
- author:
    name: stw
    picture: 110841
  body: "Everyone who likes Reggae should listen to Martin Jondo!!! \r\n\r\nhttp://www.martinjondo.com/en/"
  created: '2006-07-22 17:56:51'
- author:
    name: Eric_West
    picture: 109470
  body: "Sufjan has 5 disc Christmas project coming out...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.asthmatickitty.com/suf_xmas/suf_xmas.php"
  created: '2006-11-05 13:18:30'
date: '2006-04-24 04:19:33'
title: What are you listening to!?

---
