---
author:
  name: xurxo_insua
body: "I am interested in the origins of [[grotesque]] typefaces in nineteenth-century
  [[Germany]].\r\n\r\nIn my opinion, the relevance of the Grotesk typology in the
  context of the birth and early development of the [[sans serif|sanserif]] has perhaps
  been underestimated by a historiographic tradition focused on Anglo-American achievements.
  Some indications:\r\n\r\n\u2013 Most sources agree that [[William Thorowgood]] released
  the first sanserif lowercase in 1834. Nevertheless, it seems that the [[Scheltzer
  and Giesecke|Schelter & Giesecke]] foundry (Leipzig) had produced a light sans serif
  with both capitals and lower case letters by 1825. (Source: Lawson, Anatomy of a
  Typeface, p. 297). I find this doubtful, but if proven, this face would be not only
  prior to Thorowgood\xB4s (and even [[Figgins]]') but far more sophisticated. \r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/thorow.gif]\r\nThorowgood
  1834\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schlanke.gif]\r\nSchelter&Giesecke
  1825\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2013 The Grotesk typefaces were used in the nineteenth century
  for setting [[body text]] (namely in scientific and technical publications), long
  before the american [[gothic|gothics]] left display and jobbing as their exclusive
  tasks. (Source: http://www.typolexikon.de/g/grotesk.html)\r\n\r\n\r\n\u2013 Looking
  at specimens from late nineteenth century, one finds a very remarkable level (for
  the time) of  formal development, and perhaps even a tendency towards systematization
  and coordination of [[weight|weights]] and sizes. (Source: Schelter&Giesecke specimen,
  c.1898)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schelter05.gif]\r\n\r\n\r\nAny
  argument or contribution is more than welcome. I\xB4d like also to pose these questions
  to the forum:\r\n\r\n1. When did the first Grotesk appear in Germany?\r\n\r\n2.
  Which typeface would be the first in including a lowercase in that country (if the
  Lawson statement is erroneous)?\r\n\r\n3. When did the sanserif started to be used
  as a text face there?\r\n\r\n\r\nThank you very  much,\r\n\r\nXurxo\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "The collection of samples (the S&G and Thorowgood sanserifs together) suggests
    to me that images and data were taken from P.M. Handover's article \"Grotesque
    Letters\" (in Monotype News Letter 69, March 1963). There however, the \"1825\"
    reads \"? ca 1825\" ...\r\n\r\nTo date this Schelter & Giesecke sanserif, called
    \"Schlanke Grotesk\", back to 1825 is a mistake. Unfortunately, subsequent writer
    just copied this from Mrs Handhover. So much for writing history of type.\r\nAs
    you already noted, it is so perfect that it cannot be from such an early date.
    It can be found in part one of the \"Muster-Sammlung\", of 1886. But it should
    be hard to trace this back earlier for type specimens weren't dated back then.\r\n(Side
    note: In the S&G specimen books you find other sanserif of much lower quality,
    more like the early British ones. These were -- I bet -- produced earlier than
    the fine \"Schlanke Grotesk\" which you showed, but later than the early British
    ones.)\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-04-25 12:21:14'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>But it should be hard to trace this back earlier for type specimens weren\u2019t
    dated back then.</em>\r\n\r\nOne would have to compare type in dated magazines
    with type in foundry specimens.\r\nSend in the Type Scene Investigators!\r\n\r\nI
    say magazines, because that is the kind of printing where sans serifs were mainly
    used, although the German scientific tradition of using sans faces would be worth
    exploring, in scientific publications."
  created: '2006-04-25 16:30:14'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Or printing trade publications/advertisement. Sadly, my little library is
    not that well equipped ...\r\n\r\nBut then: There is the \"Handbuch der Schriftarten\"
    (1926-) which shows typefaces of different foundries -- by similarity. With this
    in mind, I wonder if *only* searching magazines would suffice to decide whether
    a typeface appearing in a magazine is grotesk a from foundry A or grotesk b from
    foundry B, because they were almost identical.\r\nThat discussion today is centered
    around Akzidenz Grotesk so much, with some Schelter & Giesecke Breite Grotesk
    here and there (but only because of the revival which serves as a reminder), is
    a bit funny if we take into account that at its time, AG was but one among many,
    all of them very similar to each other. Even to experts' eyes. Similarly, almost
    every German foundry hat a Breite Grotesk, some better, some worse."
  created: '2006-04-25 19:41:54'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>they were almost identical.</em>\r\n\r\nBut that doesn't really matter.\r\nThe
    purpose is to date a genre of type.\r\nHere is an ad from the London <em>Punch</em>
    magazine, 1843 (incidentally, also the best-selling humour magazine in Canada
    and the United States at the time).\r\nI have not seen these sans faces in the
    Figgins, or Caslon & Livermore specimens of the day. \r\nPerhaps they are in some
    specimen books I am not aware of.\r\nOr perhaps they are types that never appeared
    in specimen books.\r\nOr perhaps they are types from specimen books of which no
    copies now exist.\r\nOr perhaps they are types from foundries that have vanished
    without trace.\r\nType history is a little too dependent on foundry specimens
    -- from the usual suspects.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/Doudney.jpg]"
  created: '2006-04-25 20:09:49'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "Karsten, thank you for your explanation of the date mistake. \r\nDoes the
    article you cite \"Grotesque Letters\" deal with German Grotesks significantly?
    \r\n\r\n<cite> the German scientific tradition of using sans faces would be worth
    exploring</cite>\r\n\r\nFor sure, Nick.\r\n\r\nAnyone knows if there is any virtual
    gallery on nineteenth century German publications? The only gallery of this kind
    I know \u2013pointed out to me by Eduardo Manso from [[Emtype Foundry]]\u2013
    covers exclusively nineteenth-century USA (by the way: worth visiting, specially
    the reproductions of The Century magazine, printed by De Vinne. http://cdl.library.cornell.edu/moa/moa_search.html)\r\n\r\nI
    have found so far a lack of first-hand, proven information (or any at all) on
    the birth and development of early German grotesques. Is there any source (German-language
    included) where this topic is extensively discussed?\r\n\r\nThanks again"
  created: '2006-04-25 20:29:47'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "(I missed your last two posts while I wrote mine)\r\n\r\n<cite>The purpose
    is to date a genre of type.</cite>\r\n\r\nI think so. The matter is to widen our
    knowledge of the sanserif genre\xB4s first steps, by learning more on the history
    of the Grotesk \u2013which seems to have answers to questions such as e.g. when
    a sanserif was first used as a text face."
  created: '2006-04-25 20:52:56'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "> It can be found in part one of the Muster-Sammlung, of 1886. \r\n> But
    it should be hard to trace this back earlier for type specimens \r\n> werent dated
    back then. \r\n\r\nNot that hard. The 'Schlanke Grotesk' dates from 1882.\r\n\r\nIn
    the 1870s and 18880s, Schelter & Giesecke published their own journal 'Typographische
    Mitteilungen' (typographic reports), in which they presented their new typefaces.
    This journal was published approximately every few months. \r\n\r\nIn 'Typographische
    Mitteilungen', 2. Band, 3. Heft, published in May 1882, on page 2 the 'Schlanke
    Grotesk' is presented as a new design:\r\n\r\n'In our last issue, we presented
    the Enge Antiqua, and we said that this typeface allowed extreme tight setting.
    Today we are able to present an in-house cut Schlanke Grotesk , which enables
    the type setter to set even more compressed without losing legibility. This typeface
    will prove its usefullness not only for job printing but also for the setting
    of advertisments.'\r\n\r\n(This is my translation from German.)\r\n\r\n(St Bride
    Printing Library in London has a copy of Typographische \r\nMitteilungen', 2.
    Band, 3. Heft, May 1882)"
  created: '2006-04-25 22:40:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Bravo Wolfgang!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-25 22:58:23'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: '[double post ...]'
  created: '2006-04-25 22:58:56'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>Does the article you cite \u201CGrotesque Letters\u201D deal with German
    Grotesks significantly?</cite>\r\n\r\nMore with the British. If you send me your
    email (I think my Typophile contact link allows this), I can make you a copy of
    the article at the weekend. It is nice to read.\r\n\r\n<cite>The purpose is to
    date a genre of type.</cite>\r\n\r\nAh, genre not particular typeface. This is
    a different story. Maybe easier to deal with for the start.  ;-)\r\n\r\n<cite>Type
    history is a little too dependent on foundry specimens \u2014 from the usual suspects.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou
    mean, they write their own great history?\r\n\r\n<cite>I have found so far a lack
    of first-hand, proven information (or any at all) on the birth and development
    of early German grotesques. Is there any source (German-language included) where
    this topic is extensively discussed?</cite>\r\n\r\nI fear there are no *serious*
    publications about it. For some time I tried to find something, but most of the
    articles present second-hand stuff themselves. Repeating myths.\r\nSad because
    the issue is most fascinating: Like, before the Johnson and Gill sanserifs, British
    sanserifs (the groteques) had many features in common with the German ones. I
    always wondered if German sanserifs had their origin in Britain.\r\nBut this is
    speculation. Unfortunately. Glad about any correction.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 22:59:06'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>In \u2018Typographische Mitteilungen\u2019, 2. Band, 3. Heft, published
    in May 1882, ...</cite>\r\n\r\nIn which German library can I find them?"
  created: '2006-04-25 23:01:56'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "Thank you for that precise data, Wolfgang.\r\n\r\nHave you got any information
    concerning the use of sanserif as body text face in nineteenth-century German
    scientific publications?"
  created: '2006-04-26 13:08:05'
- author:
    name: wolfgang_homola
    picture: 109746
  body: "> In which German library can I find them?\r\nSorry, I don't know - but if
    you find them, probably you could tell us in which library ...\r\n\r\n> Have you
    got any information concerning the use of sanserif as body text face \r\n> in
    nineteenth-century German scientific publications?\r\nNo.\r\nI have heard these
    rumours that sans serif was used in nineteenth-century German scientific publications
    - does anyone know from which source this information comes from? - but bearing
    in mind that back then a substantial part of the newspapers and books was printed
    in Fraktur (blackletter) I find it hard to believe that sans serif was used for
    longer texts. If it was actually used, then I would rather assume that it might
    have been used for some special purposes. But this is only speculation.\r\n\r\nIt
    just came to my mind, that some ten years before Caslon's Egyptian, the first
    sans serif tyeface (with upper case only), there was already a Greek unseriffed
    typeface (uppercase only):\r\nEdward Daniel Clarke's Greek type (1805). You can
    find Justin Howes's article about this typeface in the Proceedings of the 1st
    International Conference on Typography and Visual Communication in June 2002 in
    Thessaloniki, Greece. John Bowman (in his book 'Greek printing types in Britain')
    also mentions this typeface, and he calls it 'Cambridge Small Pica Sarcophagus'.
    (Nice name for a typeface!)\r\n\r\nIf anyone has information about sans serif
    in nineteenth-century German scientific publications - now is the time to tell
    us more about it..."
  created: '2006-04-26 21:09:53'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: TM -- so far, only at Leipzig.  :(
  created: '2006-04-27 00:41:15'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "<cite>sans serif was used in nineteenth-century German scientific publications
    - does anyone know from which source this information comes from?</cite>\r\n\r\nThe
    source I know of \u2013pointed out by Andreas Seidel at http://typophile.com/node/4567,
    5th post\u2013 is the typolexikon.de website, run by Wolfgang Beinert from Berlin.\r\n\r\n\"...[in
    the XIX century] the Grotesk was used predominantly for jobbing and in scientific
    and technical publications\" (my approximated translation from German) \r\n\"die
    Grotesk dann \xFCberwiegend im * Akzidenzsatz sowie in wissenschaftlichen und
    technischen Publikationen verwendet.\"\r\nhttp://www.typolexikon.de/g/grotesk.html\r\n\r\nIn
    this other section, Beinert states that Theinhardt's Royal Grotesk was designed
    for the publications of the Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences.\r\n\"Theinhardt
    entwarf um 1880 f\xFCr die wissenschaftlichen Publikationen der \xBB K\xF6niglich-Preu\xDFischen
    Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin \xAB die \xBB Royal-Grotesk \xAB in vier
    Schnitten.\"\r\nhttp://www.typolexikon.de/t/theinhardt-ferdinand.html"
  created: '2006-04-27 09:16:52'
- author:
    name: gthompson
    picture: 109676
  body: "Both Thorowgood in England and the Johnston & Smith foundry in the U.S. showed
    sans serif types with lowercase in 1834. Neither design was particularly good
    and there is reason to believe the Johnston & Smith type, which is quite ugly,
    was a wood letter or metal made from wood letters.\r\n\r\nGeorge \r\nI felt bad
    because I had no shoes, until I met a man who had no Bodoni"
  created: '2006-04-28 03:15:07'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "And when did lowercase first appear on a Grotesk?\r\n\r\nThe crudeness you
    point out seems to be a clear feature of all early sanserifs, first originated
    \u2013as said\u2013 in Britain and then the US. The genre got refined afterwards
    through the century. I got the impression (not proven) that by the last third
    of the century, the Grotesks had achieved a substantially greater level of development
    than their Anglo-American counterparts. I wonder how the Grotesks were in the
    beginning (if just as primitive or if they presented early clues to that future
    refinement), and what was the pace of their formal growth.\r\n\r\nAnother gap
    in the history of Grotesks seems to be right in the birth date. What is the oldest
    specimen of a German sanserif anyone at the forum knows of?\r\n\r\nThank you\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-28 10:04:29'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "More on early Grotesks and their use for text setting:\r\n\r\n\"In 1830 this
    firm [Schelter und Giesecke] held a bold upper and lower case roman [grotesque]
    in fifteen sizes, and by 1850 had added a condensed in no less than nineteen sizes,
    of which three included a choice of body size. Steinschrift, as the design was
    named, was obviously intended for text setting rather than for eye-catching display.\"\r\n\r\nP.M.
    Handover: \u201CGrotesque Letters\u201D, Monotype News Letter 69, March 1963 (provided
    by Karsten Luecke). [The source can be doubtful (as discussed above).] \r\n "
  created: '2006-05-02 11:03:04'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "Schlanke Grotesk specimen from Schelter & Giesecke Muster-Sammlung, 1886\r\n(found
    at Biblioteca Ar\xFAs, Barcelona)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schlanke_grotesk_4620.jpg]\r\n\r\nI
    pose once again these questions, open for everyone:\r\n\r\nDates for first Grotesk,
    Grotesk lowercase, use of Grotesk as text face.\r\n\r\nAny clue, approximation
    or information related is welcome\r\nThanks a lot"
  created: '2006-05-04 19:48:38'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: On a somewhat unrelated note, the high-flying umlauts are nice.
  created: '2006-05-05 14:55:42'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: ' )  They are indeed.'
  created: '2006-05-05 15:12:44'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "But the \"w\" and \"M\" have not fully evolved.\r\nThe bold condensed was
    the leading stytle in the development of the sans, and Thorowgood has figued out
    how to solve the problem for that style, but Extra Light Extra Condensed -- asking
    for trouble! Here's Univers 39.\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/staat_4043.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-05 15:26:13'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "This kind of imperfections in optical adjustment seem to be the norm at that
    stage of development of the Grotesk. Here is another example, Schmale Steinschrift
    from Schelter & Giesecke specimen book (1898)\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schmale_1_6122.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schmale_2_4466.gif]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/schmale_3_6566.gif]\r\n\r\n(M,W,A)
    \r\n\r\nThe neogrotesques' main contribution was precisely to systematize and
    optically polish (Univers is the best example of this) the formal findings that
    were already there in nineteenth-century Grotesks.\r\n "
  created: '2006-05-08 09:19:04'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/breitehalbfette_6307.gif]\r\n\r\nSample
    from 1898 (same specimen book mentioned in last post).\r\n \r\nWhat makes the
    neogrotesques of the 1950-60's (Helvetica etc.) beatiful was for the most part
    already there \u2013more than a century ago from us now. "
  created: '2006-05-10 16:09:12'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Sorry Xurxo, I don't agree with your theory of progress.\r\nThe ink-traps
    in V, W, of Univers etc would have looked as strange (and not beautiful) to people
    in the 1890s as the heaviness of those characters in Schmale Steinschrift look
    to us.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-10 18:57:00'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "Nick, I'll try to explain my point more clearly (I wasn't trying to say what
    you comment) \r\n\r\nIt's clear, as you said, that some aspects of those Grotesks
    <cite>have not fully evolved</cite> (namely the optical unbalance of some characters).
    Their full evolution would only come with neogrotesques, like Univers. \r\n\r\nI
    was trying to point out the fact that neogrotesques are (roughly said) but optically
    polished and systematized Grotesks. \r\n\r\nThe basic formal appeals of neogrotesques
    (say <cite>what makes them beatiful</cite>), \u2013e.g. their stark and robust
    simplicity, a kind of plain but precise synthetization\u2013<cite> are already
    there </cite>in the German grotesques of the preceding century.\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-14 00:24:56'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: (In a way, it's the remark of someone surprised by the "modernity" of the
    Grotesks)
  created: '2006-05-14 00:34:09'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "We're generally agreeing, but the point I'm making is that the evolution
    has not been from ugly to beautiful, that's only the way it appears to some of
    us now. \r\n\r\n\"Optical polish\" is even tone, but there is nothing inherently
    beautiful about this quality. Many would consider the polishing excessive, resulting
    in a smooth but dull finish.\r\nThe condensed Grotesks were just as systematized
    as the condensed neoGrotesques -- only with an evenness of stroke thickness, not
    overall tone.\r\n\r\nI certainly agree that the Neogrotesques are direct revivals
    of 19th century faces -- compare the type in the ad I showed earlier with Helvetica:\r\n\r\n
    [img:sites/default/files/old-images/lombardNS_5348.jpg]\r\n\r\nWhat I really want
    to see (and discover when) is the first Regular weight lower case sans faces."
  created: '2006-05-14 08:10:56'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "<cite>the evolution has not been from ugly to beautiful</cite>\r\nI fully
    agree with you (the slight misunderstanding was perhaps here). Explaining it with
    other words: the only thing neogrotesques added was even tone, but apart from
    that particular new feature (which is a logical evolution, but as you said can
    be praised for its cleanness or disliked for its homogenization) they are <cite>just
    as </cite>beatiful as the grotesques from a century ago.\r\n  \r\nThe formal findings
    (the effective originalities in form, compared to other genres, that give character
    and appeal to a typology) are all in the beginning, in vernacular grotesques.
    \r\n\r\nYour more than adequate sample tells all this at just a glance.\r\n\r\n<cite>The
    condensed Grotesks were just as systematized as the condensed neoGrotesques</cite>\r\nFor
    systematization I was rather referring to the fact that a typical neogrotesque
    is designed from the outset as an array of coordinated weights \u2013it's conceived
    as a program or system (being this another new feature). \r\n\r\n<cite>What I
    really want to see (and discover when) is the first Regular weight lower case
    sans faces.</cite>\r\nWe open this request to anyone at the forum, as done in
    previous posts. What's the earliest example of a lowercase Grotesk anyone knows
    of?\r\n\r\nThanks\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-16 00:41:32'
- author:
    name: xurxo_insua
  body: "On the use of Grotesks as text faces in nineteenth-century scientific publications.\r\n\r\n<cite>Theinhardt\u2019s
    Royal Grotesk was designed</cite> [around 1880] <cite> for the publications of
    the Royal Prussian Academy of Sciences.</cite>\r\n\r\nAt least the main publication
    of the RPAS, the Abhandlungen (\"Papers\"), doesn't seem to make use at all of
    the Royal Grotesk or any other sanserif. I post a couple of typical pages, from
    1882 (the layout remained almost unchanged until XXth century)\r\n\r\n [img:sites/default/files/old-images/abhandlungen_1881_2_6602.jpg]\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/abhandlungen_1881_4598.jpg]\r\n\r\nThe
    Abhandlungen are  available in digital form at http://bibliothek.bbaw.de/bibliothek-digital/digitalequellen/schriften\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-26 10:13:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks for that link Xurxo!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-26 13:34:44'
- author:
    name: hashiama
    picture: 112147
  body: Wonder if anyone has a clue about [[http://typophile.com/node/106610#comment-565349|this
    sans serif]], that veers very closely to these
  created: '2013-10-06 20:28:22'
date: '2006-04-24 19:21:51'
title: German Grotesks and the origins of sanserif

---
