---
author:
  name: Si_Daniels
  picture: 110446
body: "Crossposted...\r\n\r\nAs recently mentioned on Tom Phinney's blog... \r\n\r\nhttp://blogs.adobe.com/typblography/2006/03/fonts_on_the_we.html\r\n\r\n...the
  W3C has once again turned its attention to the issue of fonts and Web content.\r\n\r\nhttp://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2006Apr/0070.html
  \r\n\r\nA couple of people are already suggesting that the W3C CSS 3 specs allow
  TTF's to be linked to Web pages in exactly the same was as images are now linked.
  \r\n\r\nDiscussion - http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2006Apr/\r\n\r\nThe
  W3C would love to hear from those making fonts for a living, or even for fun. It
  would be a shame for them to make a decision on this without those involved in type
  design voicing their support, opinions or concerns. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "What are they suggesting should happen to the font once it's downloaded?
    It seems like current functioning solutions use Flash as a rasterizer in some
    way. Otherwise, I would think that from a security standpoint the rasterizer would
    have to be built into the browser. Alternatively, the browser would have to be
    able to turn a font on, which is a very platform specific activity, and not one
    that many users would want. If a TT rasterizer was built into the browser, perhaps
    there would be an opportunity to create a special font format designed only for
    web use. This is just speculation, but if such a thing were possible, maybe there's
    a way this could work that wouldn't be completely opposed by type vendors. \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 22:36:39'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe there could be a parking meter on the site. You could use the fonts
    as long as you kept feeding the meter:-)\r\n\r\nYou might also license fonts through
    the iTunes Music store and royalties would be automatically paid to designers
    and foundries?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-25 22:52:34'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "Now you're thinking! Howabout the fonts being hosted by vendors? The web
    browser would have a plug-in that would render the font. The web-designer just
    enters some sort of key that lets the page load the font off the vendor-hosted
    server. Perhaps the system would only use sub-sets of the font, so it would be
    much more difficut for people to devise a way to steal the faces. Remember, iTunes
    doesn't make it impossible to steal music, it just makes buying it much more convenient.
    \r\nThe trick has always been that there has to be a way for everyone to make
    money. \r\n\r\nFor this crazy scheme to work, you'ld also have to get broad adoption
    of the plug-in. That could be tricky, because it would have to be something that
    IE/Firefox/Safari could include without licensing entanglements. \r\n\r\nWeb designers
    could pay by buying a key for a certain number of hits on a particular font. Of
    course, piracy would be rampant, but everyone would still be making more money,
    which is the important thing. Some users would buy fonts from legit sources for
    the same reasons they do now for print. \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-25 23:22:27'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">What are they suggesting should happen to the font once it\u2019s d\r\ndownloaded?
    \r\n\r\nI think they're open to suggestions. But I think they'll likely leave
    this up to the browser maker - who may choose to use OS level services. \r\n\r\n>It
    seems like current functioning solutions use Flash as a rasterizer in some way.
    Otherwise, I would think that from a security standpoint the rasterizer would
    have to be built into the browser. \r\n\r\nI think they need to hear this feedback
    from the community. \r\n\r\nSo far the focus has been on free fonts... \r\n\r\n-----Original
    Message-----\r\nFrom: www-style-request@w3.org [mailto:www-style-request@w3.org]
    On Behalf Of H\xE5kon Wium Lie\r\nSent: Tuesday, April 25, 2006 11:12 AM\r\nTo:
    Dave Raggett\r\nCc: www-style@w3.org\r\nSubject: Re: Downloadable fonts and image
    replacement\r\n\r\nAlso sprach Dave Raggett:\r\n\r\n > I am therefore looking
    for support for direct use of TTF files so \r\n > that I don't have to use a special
    tool for embedded fonts like Weft \r\n > [1]. There are plenty of fonts with open
    licenses that are perfectly \r\n > good for most purposes, so a DRM-based solution
    isn't high on my \r\n > wish list.\r\n\r\nThis is also my experience. There are
    thousands of TrueType font\r\nfamilies out there. Some examples:\r\n\r\n  http://www.fontfreak.com/fonts-g2.htm\r\n
    \ http://www.1001freefonts.com/fonts/pfonts5.htm\r\n\r\nTypically, four truetype
    files are zipped up into a file which --\r\nroughly speaking -- has a size similar
    to a photograph. Some of the\r\nfonts have legal restrictions that prevent their
    use, some only cover\r\nthe English alphabet, and some are poorly designed. However,
    there are\r\nalso good-looking, freely usable fonts out there. These fonts\r\nrepresent
    an untapped resource for typography on the web.\r\n\r\n- - - - - - - - -\r\n\r\nSo,
    the elaborate schemes involving micropayments to type deisgners don't seem to
    be on the table right now. "
  created: '2006-04-26 00:03:46'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>So, the elaborate schemes involving micropayments to type deisgners
    don\u2019t seem to be on the table.</cite>\r\n\r\nI guess I'm off on a lark. I
    could imagine the proposed ideas being a big disappointment to type developers
    large and small. A big problem for the small foundries is actually being able
    to go after pirates. According to this scheme, if a font without proper licensing
    ended up on the web, anyone could download and use it. One could use Google or
    a custom spidering tool to just cruise the web and download any fonts out there.
    Yikes. "
  created: '2006-04-26 00:14:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Can you close your CITE tag? \r\n\r\nI've made these arguments which is why
    I think they need to hear from those directly invovled in type design.  \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si"
  created: '2006-04-26 00:24:17'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "I don't think I ever close the CITE tags. I didn't realize that you had to,
    since it looks fine in my bowser. Thanks for mentioning that. \r\n\r\nI realize
    that this has probably been discussed a lot over the years, by people much more
    knowlegable than I. It's really one of the great outstanding problems in typography. "
  created: '2006-04-26 00:32:07'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "A greater venue for free fonts just further cheapens the fonts for sale.
    \ If fonts fall out of the internet for free like rain, why would someone think
    paying a mere $30 was reasonable?\r\nSoftware companies and OS companies bundle
    what appear to be free fonts like crazy already.  Unplugging the internet drain
    plug with a torrent of free fonts would just wash type designers down the sewer
    with the flood.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-26 00:41:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Oh that explains it - I'm probably the only one seeing all the italic. Can
    you fix this too - http://typophile.com/node/19393 ;-)\r\n\r\n>I realize that
    this has probably been discussed a lot over the years, by people much more knowlegable
    than I. It\u2019s really one of the great outstanding problems in typography.\r\n\r\nActually
    I don't think it's been given much attention in recent years. It got a lot of
    coverage back in the early days of the Web (mid to late 90's) but fell off the
    radar. Now it's back on the W3C's agenda, and the impression I get is that things
    will move quite quickly, especially if no one from the typographic community raises
    any objections. \r\n\r\nI think Web designers also need to let their voices be
    heard. Will they be happy with a situation that limits them to freeware fonts?
    How about corporate marketing departments that will have to decide if they're
    willing to post their expensive custom fonts on their Web site? At least they
    have a choice - those companies using off-the-shelf fonts in their identity work
    won't have the option of posting commercial fonts in this way.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-26 00:45:47'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "What is the best address or venue to send our comments on this Si?  I am
    sure W3C does not frequent these boards.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-26 00:49:53'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think your best bet would be to read through the posts here  http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2006Apr/
    - and hit \"respond\" - you may get a bounce with information on subscribing to
    the www-style email list - or it may just go through. \r\n\r\nAlternately I've
    offered to collate feedback and forward it back to the decsion makers at the W3C.
    \ "
  created: '2006-04-26 00:59:42'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\nI just sent my comment from my above post to the list.  It just pops
    open my email account and I sent it in.  I have not seen itpost yet.  Itprobably
    takes a while to post.\r\n\r\nTHANKS!\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-26 01:06:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe this thread should be in the general forum to get more traffic? Maybe
    a kind birdie will put it in \"Hand Picked\"?\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-26 01:08:31'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "Sii, do you think there will be some way for Windows to activate fonts in
    a particular application context? Without it, I just don't see how this could
    ever work. I mean, no one's going to let their browser put a font in C:\\Windows\\Fonts\\.
    \r\n\r\nOn the Mac, this could be implemented today. A browser could simply download
    the font to it's cache and activate it with the same API Adobe uses for the fonts
    in /Library/Application Support/Fonts/. If the browser downloaded a font with
    'unexpected featues', the worst it could (hopefully) do is crash the browswer.
    \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-26 02:36:45'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Sii, do you think there will be some way for Windows to activate fonts in
    a particular application context?  \r\n\r\nFor sure - that's easy... http://blogs.msdn.com/michkap/archive/2005/11/20/494829.aspx
    \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-26 03:23:49'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: Thanks for the link! Someone should implement this as a Firefox or IE plug-in.
    Is someone already working on this?
  children:
  - author:
      name: poms
    body: "@w3c, ie, firefox, opera, safari...\r\nBefore embedding fonts and such,
      there is another important topic first -\r\nhyphenation for different languages
      depending on fontsize/width of html-elements. Problems with readability and
      layout occur normally with so called fluid layouts, adjusted fontsize, etc.\r\n\r\nregards"
    created: '2006-04-26 08:24:00'
  created: '2006-04-26 03:40:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Am I the only one who sees a sinister side to this? It is like going to a
    baseball game where the hotdog vendors who come right to your seat give you the
    hotdog for free.  If you get up and walk to the concession stand behind the grandstands
    though, you have to pay money for the hotdogs.  How long are the lines at the
    concession stand?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-26 20:59:30'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: IF this went through would it REALLY be that easy to get the fonts?
  created: '2006-04-26 21:06:55'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "The level of discussion seems to range from people who have some clue about
    fonts and the IP issues involved (<a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2006Apr/0123.html\">David
    Woolley</a>) to those who seemingly don't (<a href=\"http://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/www-style/2006Apr/0088.html\">Anne
    van Kesteren</a>).\r\n\r\nOne part that really got me (I can't find the exact
    thread) is where somebody says that, rather than being able to specify fonts to
    be downloaded, you could satisfy the creative types by adding support in CSS for
    3-D dropshadows and extrusion effects. :-P Somebody else mentioned \"word art\"...
    hmm. I don't know whether to laugh or cry."
  created: '2006-04-26 21:44:31'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'I do see the sinister side of this, but I also see some interesting opportunities.
    For example, it could be used for a website to display text in a language for
    which the user might not have text support. This  a good thing for people who
    write with the worlds less common scripts. This might also be handy for corporate
    identity fonts, it could encourage more business to customize their type.  Also,
    Trekkers and Trekkies could make Klingon available for people who still don''t
    have an OS with Klingon installed by default. '
  created: '2006-04-26 22:30:43'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: ">IF this went through would it REALLY be that easy to get the fonts?\r\n>\r\n\r\nIf
    the browser downloaded the whole font, perhaps clever type designers might respond
    by adding 'data slugs' to the font file that would make them larger. For example,
    maybe you could add lots of text to the License field in the font to make it 2MB.
    That probably wouldn't cause the font to use any more resources in terms of memory,
    but a pirate would have to go to the trouble of modifying it so it would work
    as part of a website.\r\n\r\nThis would be like converting iTunes DRM files to
    MP3, you can do it, but most people don't. "
  created: '2006-04-26 22:35:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Foundries would know immediately they see one of their fonts, which is not
    licensed for internet downloading, being used in the \"linked\" manner proposed.
    They can do a search, and prosecute. This would discourage unscrupulous web designers.\r\n\r\nHowever,
    there would be market pull from legit web designers who want to pay to license
    \"linkable\" fonts, and once they use a font, pirate web designers would have
    easy access to it.\r\n\r\nPerhaps if there was some way of putting a security
    code into a linkable font, so that it would only work from a specific, licensed
    URL..."
  created: '2006-04-26 22:37:52'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "The following is a quote from David Woolley: \r\n\r\n\"That's the effect
    of putting a TTF font on the web!  Anyone can download it and use it in any web
    site.  Also, unless you apply a same origin  policy, which you haven't requested,
    other sites don't even need to host the font, they can simply deep link the font
    resource from another site.\"\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-26 23:30:11'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'Browsers could also be designed to cache fonts, so that a page would display
    a face correctly if you''ve <Em>ever</EM> viewed a page that used the font. I
    don''t know if, say Firefox developers would promise not to do that, since it
    would be handy. Of course, that would be very bad from a piracy standpoint, unless
    the fonts were licensed for that type of use. '
  created: '2006-04-26 23:55:34'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I think if, as the W3C intends, this is limited to freeware fonts then it
    may be of some limited use to a subset of web designers. But it does little for
    professional and corporate web designers who would like to use non-freeware fonts,
    and it provides no revenue opportunities for type designers. \r\n\r\nBut realistically
    will web designers limit themselves to freeware fonts? I don't think so, and I
    think the W3C will say that misuse of the system they promote is not their problem.
    \r\n\r\nPS. Carl, you're CITE'ing again - all i see is italics. Don't make me
    install firefox. ;-)\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 00:25:42'
- author:
    name: paul d hunt
    picture: 109422
  body: "sii, if you see these type of cite problems, you can always contact one of
    the admins.\r\n\r\n<em>I think if, as the W3C intends, this is limited to freeware
    fonts then it may be of some limited use to a subset of Web designers.</em>\r\n\r\nthis
    is just silly. i think i'd rather see comic sans everywhere than see crappy free
    fonts everywhere."
  created: '2006-04-27 00:28:43'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Here's a survey I forwarded to the W3C which I felt might be useful in gathering
    the opinions of type designer's on font embedding. \r\n\r\n<EM>Font embedding
    on the Web.</EM>\r\n\r\nThe W3C is again looking at technologies for delivering
    fonts with Web content. We\u2019re trying to assess attitudes of those in the
    type design community.\r\n\r\n1. What best describes your involvement in type
    design? \r\n\r\nA. I\u2019m an active type designer producing fonts for commercial
    licensing and distribution, deriving some income from type design. \r\nB. I\u2019m
    an active type designer producing fonts largely for my use in my own projects
    or for fun and derive no direct income from my type design activities. \r\nC.
    I\u2019m involved in the type design business (eg. foundry owner, reseller or
    tools maker) but am not actively designing type myself.\r\nD. I\u2019m a consumer
    of typefaces and am not involved in their creation. \r\n\r\n2. If you\u2019ve
    followed issues related to typography on the Web why do you think font embedding
    technologies such as Microsoft WEFT (EOT) or Bitstream TrueDoc (PFR) failed to
    excite the Web design community? Pick one or more\u2026 \r\n\r\nA. Lack of a cross-platform
    and cross-browser solution.\r\nB. System fonts are more readable and legible than
    most other fonts that could be embedded. \r\nC. It\u2019s too much hassle creating
    embedded fonts vs. making static bitmap text in a image editor like Photoshop.\r\nD.
    Flash and PDF offer a better solution than HTML plus embedded fonts. \r\nE. The
    fact that some type designers and foundries campaigned against Web font embedding
    or changed their licenses to prohibit embedding fonts using these technologies.\r\nF.
    The extra bloat embedded fonts add to Web pages.\r\nG. The fact that these technologies
    are proprietary and not open. \r\nH. Other. Specify\u2026\r\n\r\n3. As a font
    maker do you currently support (through your standard font license, embedding
    permissions, or FAQ) embedding of your fonts in Web content?\r\n\r\nA. Yes, we
    allow embedding and make no restriction regarding technology or Web use. \r\nB.
    Yes, we allow embedding in Web content but only when the mechanism is considered
    secure.\r\nC. No, we do not allow embedding of fonts within Web content. \r\nD.
    We don\u2019t have a policy on this.\r\nE. Other. Specify\u2026\r\n\r\n4. As a
    font maker what are your biggest issues or concerns with embedding fonts in Web
    content? Pick one or more\u2026\r\n\r\nA. Extraction and reuse of embedded fonts.\r\nB.
    Little likelihood of licensing fonts to users for use with this technology.\r\nC.
    Customer support issues. \r\nD. That people will just ignore license clauses that
    deal with Web font embedding.\r\nE. Other. Specify\u2026\r\n\r\n5. If a new Web
    font embedding technology were proposed what would your priorities around it be?
    Pick one or more\u2026\r\n\r\nA. That it be an open standard allowing anyone to
    follow a spec to make tools that create embedded font objects and browsers and
    other software that enables the extraction of usable fonts from the embedded font
    objects.  \r\nB. That it be a closed, licensed system, that would help reduce
    (although not eliminate) the extraction of usable fonts from embedded font data.
    \r\nC. That it require mandatory font subsetting, removal of hints, kerning and
    other data, to make extracted fonts less useful. \r\nD. That it require a new
    opt-in embedding permissions setting that identifies fonts licensed for embedding
    within Web content.  \r\nE. That it only support digitally signed fonts making
    it less likely that an unauthorized person has changed the font\u2019s embedding
    permissions. \r\nF. Other. Specify\u2026\r\n\r\n6. If a new Web font embedding
    technology were proposed that allowed public domain, freeware or open source fonts
    to be zipped up and attached to Web pages how would you feel? Pick one or more\u2026\r\n\r\nA.
    That\u2019s fine with me, I\u2019d support that.\r\nB. I\u2019d be concerned that
    commercial fonts would be mistakenly used in this way.\r\nC. I think the system
    would be deliberately abused and commercial fonts would be deliberately posted.
    \r\nD. Don\u2019t care.\r\nE. Other. Specify\u2026\r\n\r\n7. If the system identified
    in 6, required that fonts be set to \u201Cinstallable embedding\u201D how would
    you feel? \r\n\r\nA. Fine with me, I\u2019d support that.\r\nB. I think the system
    would be deliberately abused by people flipping the bits in commercial fonts or
    by people renaming commercial fonts and setting them to installable embedding.
    \r\nC. Don\u2019t care.\r\nD. Other. Specify\u2026\r\n\r\n8. Any other ideas,
    comments or suggestions? Specify\u2026\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 00:33:31'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: Si, maybe we could create a poll... I mean, if you are interested.
  created: '2006-04-27 00:49:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Si,\r\nI think this would be a valuable tool.  Would W3C post it or would
    Typophile post it and send the results to w3c? The latter might get more traffic.
    What do you think?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-27 00:51:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Thanks, It did go through a few drafts with a few of the usual suspects helping
    me out. :-) So I think it's ready for prime time. However, I think interpreting
    responses will be tricky - even if it's not posted as a poll it seems to cover
    the main talking points.    \r\n\r\nI'm happy for this to be posted anywhere,
    but I think somewhere frequented by type designers would be the best place - so
    typophile would be a great. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 01:41:55'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Most of the posts in that thread on the W3C site are errant nonsense. The
    people posting understand neither fonts nor the needs of web designers.\r\n\r\nBeing
    able to use only any free or shareware font will NOT meet the needs or desires
    of web designers.\r\n\r\nA proposal that allows the web to be used to seamlessly
    distribute fonts without any controls will result in a dramatic increase in font
    piracy to a level beyond our wildest nightmares.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-04-27 05:30:15'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">this is just silly. i think i\u2019d rather see comic sans everywhere than
    see crappy free fonts everywhere. \r\n\r\nWe actually paid an independent third
    party to analyze a large collection of freeware fonts on a bunch of measurable
    criteria including char set coverage, embedding permissions, (c) and TM strings,
    hinting errors etc., we didn't look at aesthetics. We found that few fonts passed
    all of the tests. We passed these results to the W3C. \r\n\r\nI know the third
    party continued extended analysis on their own dime so I\u2019ll see if they are
    willing to post these results. \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 06:08:52'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I personally think that a web downloading system will be worthless unless
    all or most foundaries will allow their fonts to work with it. And I can't see
    that happening if it means the font that I buy and use on my web site winds up
    becoming installed on the computer of every person who visits my site.\r\n\r\nThe
    way I see it, the browser has to download the font, and render it, without ever
    feeding it into the operating system of the user. For one thing, if I visit a
    page with four fonts I don't have, and I am forced to download and install them,
    then I would balk at the delay.\r\n\r\nThe only solution I see is that the font
    is handled within the browser in a manner that keeps it off the user machine.
    No doubt this will not be a perfect solution to piracy of the fonts, since one
    could build a pseudo-browser that would do nothing other than harvest fonts off
    websites. But this wouldn't be much worse than the current piracy where fonts
    are stolen under the current \"sharing\" methods.\r\n\r\nOf course, this means
    browsers would have to be greatly improved, but with current computing capabilities
    this should be possible, if things like ATM worked on 286 computers."
  created: '2006-04-27 19:54:44'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: All foundries will never climb on board. We already have enough problem with
    all foundries allowing PDF embedding. (I want to cry.)
  created: '2006-04-27 20:08:00'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Expecting users to pay for fonts they're viewing (as someone suggested earlier
    in this thread) is a bit ludicrous. The font licensor is a totally different group
    from the \"end user\" who views the fonts on a site. You don't expect magazine
    subscribers to pay for the fonts they view. You don't expect viewers of a TV ad
    to pay for the music in the ad.\r\n\r\nSimon, Thomas, I'm glad you both (via the
    companies you represent) are weighing in with the W3C.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 22:54:09'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "When a type designer/foundry licenses a face to a publisher to produce a
    brochure, they do not give the font away with the brochure.  The website would
    be giving the font away with the pageview.  If you can get the font to view and
    print only that web page, fine, go for it.  If the font then becomes available
    for the reader to apply to text of his own, forget it.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-28 01:48:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "For some reason my comment to w3c list never made it to post.  I got an email
    response saying it had been received and asked my permission to publish it (which
    I gave). I then got a message saying it was sent for review but that was 2 days
    ago. Who knows.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-28 15:38:27'
- author:
    name: aaron_carambula
    picture: 109990
  body: "None of the solutions that involve the browser and OS will work for anyone.
    It would be illegal for people to use it.\r\n\r\nAnalogies to other industries,
    other media, are red herrings. We are having to reinvent things for the internet.
    Fonts are software. In print they are no longer software, easy. On the computer,
    they remain in their original state. We need to think of this as a new problem,
    not a re-staging of an old story.\r\n\r\nPHP right now can render a (rasterized)
    image using any font you want. That's how a lot of type testers work. I don't
    see why a similar technology can't be used to make fonts work more generally on
    the web. It's secure since it's server side, making us fonties happy and it gives
    the web designer what he/she wants. I could see this just being a back-end function,
    something like settype (fontfilelocation, size, style); and it could even be used
    with CSS somehow. I know this could be done, it would just take work. They could
    resolve many issues, but it has to be a function of back-end programming, not
    user and OS and browser based. \r\n\r\nNow how this would relate to a EULA is
    beyond me, perhaps a license for web use specifically.\r\n\r\nAaron."
  created: '2006-04-28 15:55:33'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Aaron is correct, if online publications were made up of static bitmap pages
    then you could draw a comparison, but as they\u2019re not I think comparing the
    W3C proposals to print publications use and licensing of fonts is a red herring.
    \r\n\r\nOnto the EULA issue - obviously most font vendors allow embedding of fonts.
    \u201CEmbedding\u201D is reasonably well understood as a principal, and is explicitly
    defined in many EULA\u2019s as well as in the TrueType and OpenType specs. It\u2019s
    the encapsulation of a font (or derivative thereof) in a document file \u2013
    PDF, .DOC, .PPT etc., \r\n\r\nWhat the W3C is talking about is not embedding \u2013
    it\u2019s the linking of loose or zipped up font files to Web pages which are
    downloaded and temporarily installed to render content. This is not embedding,
    so the embedding provisions of the specs and EULAs can not apply. \r\n\r\nThis
    is not \u201Cembedding\u201D, this is \u201Credistribution.\u201D The EULAs attached
    to commercial fonts do not allow redistribution. Hakon and co. realize that this
    means that most fonts will not be legally usable under this scheme. However, they
    point to the large number of freeware fonts out there as being usable under the
    scheme, arguing that although not perfect they are better than nothing.  \r\n\r\nI
    think the bottom line is as follows...<UL>\r\n<LI>For font makers the fear has
    to be that if adopted and implemented web designers will not limit themselves
    to legitimate freeware fonts. \r\n\r\n<LI>For web developers the complaint should
    be that the scheme limits their creativity to freeware fonts.</UL>\r\nThere are
    other problems with the proposals, but I think focusing on these two issues, might
    be the best approach. \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-28 16:21:02'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I am surprised at the small number of responses here on this important topic.
    \ I would have thought more people would be interested. :-(\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-28 16:33:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I think Si is right in his assesment of the 2 pertinant issues.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-28 16:34:24'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"so the embedding provisions of the specs and EULAs can not apply.\"\r\n\r\nWhy
    is that? I mean, a font to be linked to AND downloaded, AND installed, something
    could look at the embedding bit somewhere along the line,,,, even if this is not
    embedding.. .  . .       .            . . . no?"
  created: '2006-04-28 16:34:31'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "In the case of an imbedded PDF, as long as the security protection is in
    place at the time of creation, use of the font is limited to printing or reading
    that document.  With the current web scenario, the font would be distributed to
    the reader of that page and be available for use in any way. That is not embedding,
    that is donation. Not something I would like to see.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-28 16:46:09'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Why is that? I mean, a font to be linked to AND downloaded, AND installed,
    something could look at the embedding bit somewhere along the line,,,, even if
    this is not embedding.. . . . . \u2026 no?\r\n\r\n...because it's not embedded
    within the document file or tied to it in any way. \r\n\r\nHakon has suggested*
    that if a font is set to 'installable' embedding then the font should be considered
    freeware. Not sure that's totally in line with the spec, and it's certainly open
    to abuse, but he's free to make that argument.  \r\n\r\nEmbedding permissions
    ... \r\n\r\nhttp://www.microsoft.com/typography/otspec/os2.htm#fst \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si\r\n\r\n*In a W3C-Style posting made yesterday by H\xE5kon Wium Lie... \r\n\r\n\"I
    would argue that, while the embedding bits predate the web, the\r\npermission
    for level 4 fonts to be \"permanently installed on the\r\nremote system\" [1]
    is granted even without the font file being\r\n\"physically embedded\" into a
    document. It's easy enough to create a\r\ndummy document which \"embeds\" the
    font -- I could even argue that a\r\nzip file provides a level of embedding. So,
    if a TrueType level 4 font\r\nfamily is being served on the web, I think it's
    reasonable to use it\r\nto display documents. (I wouldn't install it permanenty
    on the system,\r\nthough, but treat it as a cached resource.)\"\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-04-28 16:46:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> I am surprised at the small number of responses here on this important
    topic. \r\n\r\nI am too. I deliberately didn't take an alarmist tone, but I think
    that there's a good chance something like this will go through unless the voices
    of type designers are heard. I think when it does become part of CSS it will be
    adopted by browser makers quite quickly considering their stated support of Web
    standards.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-28 17:59:34'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Most of the discussion I see on this topic is about the technology of how
    to do it, not should it be done.  Not that there is by any means a parallel in
    effect but this makes me think how physicists must have talked about how thermonuclear
    devices could be built during the 1940s. It was exciting science and technology
    and therefore had to be talked about.\r\nI sure would like to see more views on
    the \"should we\" rather than the \"how could we\" of this.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-28 18:23:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Maybe we should make a crosspost in the \"What are you Listening to?\" thread
    where over 118 people have responded?\r\n\r\nWould that be too much \"Playing
    the fiddle while Rome burns\"? :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-28 18:31:05'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>I am surprised at the small number of responses here on this important
    topic.</em>\r\n\r\nWhy wouldn't the W3C do serious outreach, consulting with stakeholders,
    and seek input and approval from an organization representing the interests of
    font developers?\r\n\r\nThere is no \"AIGA\" for type designers, but surely something
    as far reaching as this merits, for instance, a special committee of ATypI?!\r\n\r\nThis
    could also be a conference topic at TypeCon in August.\r\n\r\nI'm not familiar
    with the workings, but if Microsoft, Adobe et al can get together with the Unicode
    consortium to develop the OpenType format, there must be some kind of informal
    protocol to build on.\r\n\r\nIt would be reckless of the W3C to proceed unilaterally
    with something that could devastate an entire industry, and then say \"nobody
    objected to our plans\", based on response in online forums.\r\n\r\nSi, tell these
    guys not to rush."
  created: '2006-04-28 18:31:23'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Do we have until August?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-28 18:33:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don\u2019t know if Si and Thomas would be interested in being part of a
    panel discussion on this at TypeCon with a few type designers and foundries but
    they might think about it and the organizers of TypeCon might also chew on it?\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-28 18:37:15'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Could we write a petition and circulate it among, AtypI. TDC, Typophile,
    and SoTa for signatures?\r\n\r\nIt need only say that the typedesign community
    feels more investigation is needed on this topic and that we would like to be
    hreard as part of the information being collected?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-28 18:46:51'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "I certainly think a summit to discuss this issue would be a good idea and
    had suggested that to the W3C - putting something like that together outside of
    a major conference would be a lot of work, and not something my schedule would
    allow. \r\n\r\nNext best option would certainly be a session or two at TypeCon
    or ATypI, but you're right things may have moved on by then. It would certainly
    be good if the organizers could set aside some time for this and invite W3C reps
    to the meeting.  \r\n\r\nI hadn't thought of the ATypI angle. Perhaps John could
    weigh in on this option - ATypI is the closest thing we have to an organization
    representing the interests of type designers.    "
  created: '2006-04-28 19:06:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "I don't know anything about the technical problems, but since PDFs provide
    some copy protection to fonts, wouldn't it be possible to do something along these
    lines? A PDF with fewer layout possiblities that would load quickly? Where you
    could copy and paste, but not in the embeded font? \r\n\r\nI would think a utility
    like that, a variation on PDF, would be valuable to web designers, and would allow
    for the designer to license the font without giving it away to all the viewers. "
  created: '2006-04-28 19:56:02'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "The W3C is not all-powerful. They help with standardization but they cannot
    force people to use the standards in a particular way. For example, RSS is built
    off of the W3C's XML specification, but it's use and implementation varies widely
    in practice. \r\n\r\nIt is entirely possible that they could come up with a impractical,
    unusable spec. The comparison with RSS is sort of useful here. In many cases specs
    get codified well after they are already in wide use -- to make even wider adoption,
    standardization and ineropreability possible. \r\n\r\nThis spec is mostly vaporware.
    It isn't something that people are already doing. "
  created: '2006-04-28 20:07:47'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It is entirely possible that they could come up with a impractical, unusable
    spec. \r\n\r\nWell the impression is that Hakon is a driving force behind this
    and he works for Opera so I wouldn't be surprised if at least that browser will
    support this from day 1 (they probably have something working in the lab already).
    Can't see any reason why firefox wouldn't follow suit - as for Safari and IE as
    these are tied to OS's they may take a bit longer given the security implications.
    \ "
  created: '2006-04-28 20:17:23'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "William\r\n\r\nWhat you are saying is what I said yesterday, but a bit more
    elegantly. If browsers could be upgraded to have some PDF type rendering abilities,
    then the problem is solved. Enhancements in PDF like ability to enlarge or reduce
    would not be needed ... surely that would reduce the size of the download.\r\n\r\nI
    see the w3c as needing to do three things:\r\n\r\n1) specifying what codes HTML
    or CSS would use to generate the type\r\n\r\n2) specifying that the codes that
    currently prohihit fonts from being DL'd to PDFs be honored in the new system,
    to protect those publishers who don't want their fonts used online.\r\n\r\n3)
    specifying that font files downloaded to the browser should not be accessible
    to the normal user. (As I said before, skilled hackers will be able to get them,
    but this is inevitable. The goal is to keep common users from getting commercial
    fonts free.)\r\n\r\nThe browser makers would them be able to fulfil those three
    goals in any manner that they wish."
  created: '2006-04-28 20:28:43'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "William,\r\nThis is about web pages in a browser as oposed to PDF documents.
    \ Many web pages today are built on the fly from content management systems or
    portals and don't exist as a document. The CSS specs the font info from what is
    available to the browser so I doubt if the pdf model would work in this situation.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-04-28 20:31:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I doubt if the pdf model would work in this situation\r\n\r\nI guess what
    I am groping for is some kind of change in 'this situation'. The browsers could
    change, or some kind of plug in or add on could enable more font and layout variety.
    Now with broadband, I would hope that there could be creative thinking on how
    to deliver with more control over both fonts and layout. "
  created: '2006-04-28 21:18:31'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "> 3) specifying that font files downloaded to the browser should not be accessible
    to the normal user. (As I said before, skilled hackers will be able to get them,
    but this is inevitable. The goal is to keep common users from getting commercial
    fonts free.)\r\n\r\nOf course having some kind of self contained \"font object\",
    even one that was part of a published open standard, would be an improvement on
    the current ideas being mentioned on the W3C list. (Persons wanting to use the
    fonts contained in the object would have to jump through some hoops to get full
    and complete access to them.) Even if this were on the table I think many font
    makers would want an opt-in mechanism if the blueprints to converting the font
    object into a usable font were in the public domain.   \r\n\r\nUnfortunately this
    is not part of the current proposal - the fonts would be linked to Web pages as
    actual font files or fonts in .zip files. You wouldn't need to be a skilled hacker
    or even an unskilled hacker with a conversion utility, you could just unzip the
    .zip and install the fonts in the normal way.\r\n\r\nI understand why people on
    typophile want to offer constructive ideas rather than criticize what seems to
    them like a non-starter of a plan. We want to provide alternatives. However, I'm
    not sure that this is the right approach right now.   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-28 21:19:46'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: One problem with relying on embedding bits--PostScript Type 1 fonts don't
    have them. This format is still the bread and butter of the font industry (outside
    of Microsoft and Adobe). If they are talking about <em>just</em> TrueType (or
    OpenType), maybe it would work.
  created: '2006-04-28 21:25:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">you could just unzip the .zip and install the fonts in the normal way.\r\n\r\nWouldn't
    this violate the current EULAs, so anyone with a website using this method would
    be subject to lawsuit from somebody with the money to sue, eg. Adobe or Linotype?
    I think somebody should tell them that may be getting people into a lot of legal
    problems, including themselves.  "
  created: '2006-04-28 21:29:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">One problem with relying on embedding bits\u2014PostScript Type 1 fonts
    don\u2019t have them.  \r\n\r\nI've not seen any discussion of Type 1 on the W3C
    list and it didn't come up in the prior conversations. I don't think the W3C will
    mandate a font format, however in practice if browser makers decide to go for
    the widest possible platform support then Type 1 and OT CFF support would be secondary
    to TTF. \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-28 21:31:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Wouldn\u2019t this violate the current EULAs, so anyone with a website using
    this method would be subject to lawsuit from somebody with the money to sue, eg.
    Adobe or Linotype? \r\n\r\nSee my earlier posts...\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19502#comment-120296\r\n
    \r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19502#comment-120829\r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19502#comment-120836\r\n\r\nThe
    W3C is suggesting that the new scheme would be limited to freeware or fonts set
    to installable embedding. \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-28 21:35:35'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">See my earlier posts\u2026\r\n\r\nSorry Si and Don, I came in in the middle
    of this, and didn't read you fully. I am understanding the situation now. \r\n\r\nI
    do think that something like Don and I were suggesting would be better for both
    the web and font designers than this free font idea. I would think that it would
    have to be important enough to the big players to do something on this front--to
    make fonts available but not piratable on the web. "
  created: '2006-04-28 22:02:14'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I believe; until the world can link to whatever fonts it wants, there will
    be no market, and there will be no future for type design for the screen, EXCEPT,
    upon commission. What I mean by commission, is what we have seen for the last
    decade plus \u2014 that Apple, or Microsoft, or another well funded parties, decide
    to produce a font, or fonts, and more-or-less freely distributing them to the
    public. \r\n\r\nWhere there is little or no custom font market, it is not a healthy
    typographic situation. For over a decade now, it's just been too damn complicated
    to do anything but cache the fonts to images and hope for the best from Arial,
    et al for the text \u2014 and that's got to change. There's been a burst of \"sunshine\"
    lately because phone fonts have been in great demand. But here too, the fonts
    are commissioned for the free use of all those phone users, and when it comes
    to more phone fonts, well, there's just too many standards, resolutions, character
    sets and other variables, so none are made except for the \"System fonts.\"\r\n\r\nThere
    is a whole wide world waiting to express itself the way people do. The way people
    do in print, in writing, in music and in photography is; they collect and use
    what they want, if they cannot make it themselves. If they are professional media
    mighties you can count on some law making some form of payment important, and
    if they are just ordinary people, sick to death of Arial, et al, They \"steal\"
    Wingdings today, let them steal Village Ornaments tommorrow \u2014 So What!? This
    is a case where not only do the needs of the many out weight the needs of the
    few, but the majority of the vocationally abutting few (type people who knee-jerkedly
    object to this development), don't know what they are talking about. If anyone
    asks what I say, I say let them ALL have whatever type they want! Link On!\r\n\r\nKindest
    regards.\r\n\r\n> Some of the issues under consideration\r\nP.S. Some issues considered.\r\n>
    \r\n>   Downloadable fonts in general -\r\n>     - Protecting font designers'
    IP (good fonts are labor-intensive)\r\nThere is more New IP on the web, each day,
    than the total of all font IP in history, ever. Why is type so precious?\r\n    I
    would like to see this working only on fonts in which the embedding bit is set
    to yes. \r\n    I would like to see this working with sub-setting of the formats
    and characters to only deliver & install the required glyphs in the required format.
    \r\n    I would like the installation to be in an invisible folder in the browser's
    support files.\r\n    I would not argue over any of this though, if this is not
    possible/easy/practical, because until there is real estate to compete over, what's
    the use of intellectual property there?\r\n\r\n>     - Security problems (fonts
    can contain executable code)\r\nFonts that are particularly good at rendering
    on screens, do contain executable code. Whatever \"Security problems\" this or
    anything else may cause, will be remedied by whatever is required, e.g. MS's OS,
    Apple's OS and others, will have to check, as I think they already do, to make
    sure there are recursive loops. Fonts don't have the power to carry anything except
    visual virus'...can they? I mean has a font ever carried a software virus, knocked
    out a disk or opened a folder? Ever?\r\n\r\n>     - Performance problems (download
    multi-megabyte CJK fonts?)\r\nIF: Subsetting is not possible, THEN: Certain scripts
    will be less likely to develop a large number of downloadable fonts until something
    subsets it for 'm, and on it goes.\r\n \r\n>   CSS syntax and functionality -\r\n>
    \    - Do we need other/better/shorter syntax?\r\nYou'd have to ask someone else.
    I'm all for the most complicated language so you can say the simple things simply,
    and the not simple things if you need to.\r\n>     - Interaction with other parts
    of CSS (e.g. font-style)\r\nI'd hope so. \r\n>     - Specifying archived (e.g.
    zipped) fonts\r\nSpecifying can include fonts suitable for all the intended client
    possibilities, or just one format?\r\n>     - Other functionality?\r\nAs long
    as you leave a format hint for TT GX, what other functionality could we use?\r\n>
    \  Fonts and image replacement -\r\n>     - What if I want to use the image *only*
    if my special font cannot\r\n>       be downloaded/is not installed on the user's
    system?\r\nJust do the right thing according to the embedding bit, if you can.\r\n>
    \    - Accessibility considerations for image-text replacement\r\nFlesh this out
    please.\r\n\r\n> Discuss.\r\nOkay?"
  created: '2006-04-29 01:01:48'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I believe; until the world can link to whatever fonts it wants, there will
    be no market, and there will be no future for type design for the screen, \r\n\r\nAs
    a reminder they're talking about regular font files - nothing fancy, no encryption,
    no secret fonts folder, no new embedding bits - just plain ordinary font files
    linked to Web pages.\r\n\r\nHowever I think you've hit on some interesting stuff.
    I suppose a font maker may decide to allow legitimate licensees of their fonts
    to attach them via a .zip file to their Web sites so that the content of those
    sites could be rendered using them. They'd easily be able to find unlicensed Web
    site publishers using a web crawler and could send them an invoice.\r\n\r\nThese
    font makers might even accept regular Joe user downloading the fonts for non-Web
    in-home use. Perhaps they'd be a fee for public or commercial use? Sounds a bit
    like shareware with a stick - it might work. \r\n\r\nI suppose one problem is
    that there's nothing in the W3C proposal that ties a .zip to a particular site
    - so how do you invoice the site publisher who simply points to the font .zip
    on someone else\u2019s site?  \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-29 01:37:15'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "Just trying to wrap my head around this....\r\n\r\n\r\nSo, what has to happen
    is this:\r\n\r\n\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>A font must be licensed </li>\r\n<li>The font\u2019s
    technical data must be available for a rendering agent </li>\r\n<li>The web designer
    must specify when/where to use the font </li>\r\n<li>The rendering agent must
    combine the font\u2019s technical data with the web designer\u2019s instructions
    </li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nCould it happen like this?\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>Web designer licenses
    a font from type designer and receives an alphanumeric \u201Cweb key\u201D for
    that font, limited to certain domains </li>\r\n<li>Web designer uses an HTML LINK
    tag, with web key attribute, to summon the font\u2019s technical data (hosted
    securely by type designer)</li>\r\n<li>Web designer specifies font by name in
    CSS </li>\r\n<li>Rendering agent constructs web page, using remote techical data
    instead of a local font file </li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\nThis would put responsibility
    on:\r\n<ul>\r\n<li>The type designer to have a domain-checking licensing system
    in place</li>\r\n<li>The type designer to have a font-technical-data server in
    place</li>\r\n<li>The rendering agent -maker to modify the rendering agent so
    that it accepts a font\u2019s technical data either from a local file or a remote
    file</li>\r\n<li>The web designer to license fonts per-domain and link to them
    before specifying them in CSS</li>\r\n<li>The W3C to establish conventions for
    each of these things </li>\r\n</ul>\r\n\r\n?"
  created: '2006-05-01 22:14:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Most of these ideas seem reasonable, but the one non-starter is the idea
    that the fonts should be hosted securely on some other domain. The Web designers
    won't ever go for this.  \r\n\r\n>The W3C to establish conventions for each of
    these things  \r\n\r\nIf you look over the W3C thread it's clear that they don't
    want this level of involvement - they want to specify a system that works as simply
    and as easily as linking an image to a page.  \r\n"
  created: '2006-05-01 22:27:32'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">W3C thread it\u2019s clear that they don\u2019t want this level of involvement\r\n\r\nCan
    they be lobbied on this? This, maybe combined other changes to enhance formatting
    control might make a big difference in the quality of typography on the net,no?\r\n\r\nAnd
    how does Microsoft & New York Times new reader work in delivering their fonts?
    Is it something like Tim describes, where Matthew Carter's new versions of Cheltenham
    are copy protected?  "
  created: '2006-05-02 01:27:44'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "The way it was described to me is that with the NYT Reader the NYT fonts
    are not embedded within the documents (the news stories), they are part of the
    NYT Reader application itself. Unlike most bundled fonts they are not placed in
    the fonts folder as a system wide resource they remain private to the app. \r\n\r\nThe
    news stories and pictures are fed into the appliction and are formatted using
    the apps fonts. So it may look like document font embedding but it's not - the
    fonts are part of the app. \r\n\r\nExpect to see a lot more of this type of thing
    in the future with Avalon based apps. If you're a type designer or foundry owner
    you might want to start thinking about a pricing and licensing model for this
    type of app bundling of fonts for use in this way. \r\n\r\n "
  created: '2006-05-02 01:55:48'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">part of the NYT Reader application itself\r\n\r\nThat's interesting. If
    it is possible to imbed a font within the application in a way that it is protected
    from being transferred to another use, couldn't this be done generally? \r\n\r\nA
    web site could invite you to download a web-viewing and printing font only, which
    you couldn't create new documents with. Do I understand that something like that
    is being done with the NYT reader? Then the only license would be the web site
    owner, like the publisher of a book or magazine..."
  created: '2006-05-02 02:54:02'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: ">Expect to see a lot more of this type of thing in the future with >Avalon
    based apps.\r\n\r\nThanks for the \"heads up\".  "
  created: '2006-05-02 05:19:25'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "tim brown, im not seeing how this would happen in the next ten years or so.
    i think you underestimate the BS every webdesigner / code-guy has to go through
    because of different browsers.\r\n\r\na few things i think are important in this
    discussion:\r\n\r\n- nobody wants to link a font on another server which cannot
    garantue 99.99% stability and online time. think off the GM-website, the design
    totally f'ed up because the fonts cannot be loaded. NO major company wants to
    risk this.\r\n\r\n- new browsers spread VERY slowly. big corporate websites are
    mostly backwards compatible down to netscape 4 (!) because there's still some
    percentage that uses it. firefox spreads a bit faster because mostly tech-savvy
    people use it. dont know about safari. IE7 will probably take up to two years
    before more than 50% have it on their pc (thats my rough estimate, im by no way
    an expert!). . maybe faster, but windows vista will come not come before Q1/2007.\r\n\r\n-
    anything that involves any other plugin than flash will not have a chance. people
    wont download it or do not want to download it or do not want to update it - its
    no solution.. in fact, anything involving ANY complication for the user will not
    work.\r\n\r\n- html and css are standardized, yes. its implementation in the browsers
    are NOT and will probably never be. rss is a good example here, even after the
    standard was perfect, microsoft introduced a new one (coming with IE7) that is
    mostly the same, but not compatible with the standard i think. why? because big
    players, esp. microsoft, dislike being dependent of open standards (thats at least
    my interpretation).\r\n\r\n- micropayment, at least for the moment, doesnt work
    on a global scale. having the users paying for fonts a website (they maybe dont
    even know the context of) will NEVERE work.\r\n\r\n-------\r\n\r\none possibility
    i thought of was a zip with password, and the encrypted password gets passed to
    the browser via some sort of javascript-code or so."
  created: '2006-05-02 11:05:19'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "How do stock imagery companies check for abuse of their images?\r\n\r\nCould
    type foundries check for abuse of type in the same way?"
  created: '2006-05-02 14:47:05'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "if we talk about print images, its something completely different, because
    even one high resolution image is normaly bigger than lets say 30mb. yes, its
    not a problem with broadband. but is it possible for the \"normal\" user to download
    a collection of lets say even just 100 stock photos? no, way too big. while its
    VERY easy to download.. lets say adobe fontfolio (people here wrote about that),
    it probably wont be bigger than 150mb or so, i imagine..\r\n\r\nin my view (and
    my perspective is based on the things a user experiences, not a content producer),
    you got two possibilities with IP and the digital world:\r\na.) taking away rights
    from the user , controlling him\r\nor\r\nb.) finding new ways to get money through
    new channels, think of online music stores as an example.\r\n\r\nas a user i hate
    possibility a (i dont want ANY organisation controlling the contents on my personal
    computer,  see texts about <a href=\"http://www.againsttcpa.com/what-is-tcpa.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">TCPA</a> as an example how that could look). wikipedia is way
    too slow today, otherwhise i'd link that article.\r\n\r\nprohibition has NEVER
    worked with those problems (altough it seems like a good solution), either you
    end up with 1984 or you have no control over it. i dont have a solution either,
    but the type industry needs to find ways to earn the money they need."
  created: '2006-05-02 15:07:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<cite>As a reminder they\u2019re talking about regular font files - nothing
    fancy, no encryption, no secret fonts folder, no new embedding bits - just plain
    ordinary font files linked to Web pages.</cite.\r\n\r\nSimon, is there any other
    way? It's taken 12-20 years to get from the first major screen font clients (Apple,
    MS, Adobe), A The Second Layer, (NYT e.g.). If this seems slow to you, it is.
    The first clients (and the w3c), painted all the rest into a corner, pointed to
    our comminuty, and said, \"it's their fault.\" Well, okay, let Us fix it so Y'all
    don't hav'ta ruffle yo' pretty lil' em'pires. ;)"
  created: '2006-05-02 15:41:23'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">they\u2019re talking about regular font files\r\n\r\nYes, I know. My question,
    perhaps naive as I don't know the technical problems, is whether raising these
    other possibilities with them, such as what is going on with the NYT reader, will
    get them to think again, and more broadly. "
  created: '2006-05-02 15:50:50'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "<CITE> That\u2019s interesting. If it is possible to imbed a font within
    the application in a way that it is protected from being transferred to another
    use, couldn\u2019t this be done generally? </CITE>\r\n\r\nYes, this has always
    been relatively easy to do (at least on Windows), and as the font is built into
    the application binary you\u2019d have to go out of your way to hack it out. For
    WPF (Avalon) app developers it\u2019s somewhat easier to include private fonts
    within an app and the process is well documented. We\u2019re also supplying six
    small sample fonts licensed for redistribution in this way to help developers
    get started. \r\n\r\nIn a way this isn\u2019t that much different from Flash or
    other development environments, however with WPF we\u2019re really making a point
    of specifically stating\u2026\r\n\r\n1. If you\u2019re making an application,
    you can only include fonts within that application that are licensed for such
    redistribution.\r\n2. Font embedding settings in the fonts relate to document
    embedding, not bundling as part of apps.\r\n3. Here are some sample fonts you
    can redistribute in this way. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-02 15:56:42'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: 'sii: not really. html-documents (and php, etc.) are plain-text-files, meaning
    they''re not an application, meaning you cant just embed something. or what did
    you mean by "generally"? '
  created: '2006-05-02 16:05:20'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Sorry, I went off on a bit of a tangent explaining the NYT Reader and how
    it includes the NYT fonts - it's all very interesting but doesn't relate to the
    subject of this thread.\r\n\r\nIf you're interested - http://www.technologyreview.com/read_article.aspx?id=16760&ch=infotech
    \ "
  created: '2006-05-02 16:09:43'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: oh, ok. i still think that at this point of time, sIFR really is the only
    possibility that works, and the type-industry should help the developer(s) to
    add things we'd want (like kerning, which should be possible with flash8 if i
    remember correct).
  created: '2006-05-02 16:14:17'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: 'The original W3C call for feedback associates font delivery and image replacement
    technology together. Perhaps providing an open standard alternative that uses
    similar principles. '
  created: '2006-05-02 16:24:50'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "the problem is, as i said, that every browser (or at least microsoft) will
    probably make its own version, or if its a plugin, people will not download it
    except major sites (like newspaper-websites) use it.\r\n\r\nthats at least how
    i see it, i may well be wrong."
  created: '2006-05-02 16:42:00'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: "If the technology weren't up for suggestion ... if the W3C decided that full
    font files (no DRM) would be sent with web pages, like images are now, then installed
    and summoned by CSS....\r\n\r\nThen how would the type business get people to
    pay for type they could otherwise steal?\r\n\r\nWhat if it were easier to buy
    a font than to steal one or download a free one?"
  created: '2006-05-02 16:43:34'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "tim, your last sentence has to be true for a real success.\r\n\r\nthe last
    CD i bought had DRM and didnt work on my mp3-diskman, so in the end i had to download
    the album and burn it again. as said, i havent bought a CD since. what does that
    tell us? do NOT repeat the same mistakes the movie/music-industry did years ago
    (and still do)."
  created: '2006-05-02 16:57:10'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Tim, I think you've summed up the situation precisely. \r\n\r\nAlthough they're
    not saying technology discussions are off the table, in effect anything that's
    DRMy, proprietary or not simple is going to be knocked down.      "
  created: '2006-05-02 17:01:22'
- author:
    name: Tim Brown
    picture: 110622
  body: Which puts the onus on the type business to react, or be robbed.
  created: '2006-05-02 17:08:11'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Which puts the onus on the type business to react, or be robbed.\"\r\n\r\nRobbed?
    Wako. "
  created: '2006-05-06 13:03:54'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Tim, I echo Si's comment. You have summed up my feeling on the matter as
    well. I was getting frustrated thinking that I was the only one who saw it that
    way. Thanks for kindling hope! I just wish that there were something more approaching
    an outcry by the type community rather than a so what ambivalence.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-06 16:45:40'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Getting back to an earlier comment, I for one would be happy to be on a panel,
    either at TypeCon or some other conference, to discuss this. I've certainly given
    it a lot of thought over the years.\r\n\r\nI should caution that I'm not an Adobe
    spokesperson on this issue - there are a lot of different teams at Adobe with
    a stake in this discussion.\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-05-06 23:45:28'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thomas,\r\nI am glad you would be willing to let your own views be known.
    I think it is important that we hear all points of view, personal as well as corporate.
    \r\nI don't know how we would go about getting this on the Typecon agenda but
    I would be willing to help do whatever is needed.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-07 01:47:19'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "You don't see? Hmmm. Anyone in the world can email a font to anyone in the
    world and there is nothing any of us can do about it, and we will never be able
    to do anything about it. Anyone in the world can email a font to any million people
    in the world and there is nothing any of us can do about. (after the email, the
    font can be rendered into any size required, and go onto the web with no reward
    or possibility thereof for the author, ever). This proposal changes that. But,
    if a small number of \"companies\" with small and insignificant libraries, or
    an even smaller number of companies with small and significant libraries can't
    get past their own impotent protection fantasies, leaving the world's ability
    to express itself, muted, then what is gained for the \"type community\"? What?
    I'm getting the names of 10-20 significant foundriesgathered to counterblance
    the current knee-jerk short-sightedness. Anyone willing to risk that we know what
    we're talking about, please contact me directly so we can consistently express
    our views to the proper forum.\r\n\r\nThank you!"
  created: '2006-05-08 12:32:26'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "> This proposal changes that. \r\n\r\nDavid, could you explain how this proposal
    would affect people's e-mailing of fonts to one another? "
  created: '2006-05-08 12:49:04'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "\r\n\r\nAscender Corp has just <A HREF=\"http://www.prweb.com/releases/2006/5/prweb382049.htm\">released
    the results</A> of their analysis of  free fonts on the Web to counter some of
    the claims made by the W3C...\r\n\r\n\u2014\u2014-Original Message\u2014\u2014-\r\nFrom:
    www-style-request@w3.org [mailto:www-style-request@w3.org] On Behalf Of H\xE5kon
    Wium Lie\r\nSent: Tuesday, April 25, 2006 11:12 AM\r\nTo: Dave Raggett\r\nCc:
    www-style@w3.org\r\nSubject: Re: Downloadable fonts and image replacement\r\n\r\nAlso
    sprach Dave Raggett:\r\n\r\n> I am therefore looking for support for direct use
    of TTF files so\r\n> that I don\u2019t have to use a special tool for embedded
    fonts like Weft\r\n> [1]. There are plenty of fonts with open licenses that are
    perfectly\r\n> good for most purposes, so a DRM-based solution isn\u2019t high
    on my\r\n> wish list.\r\n\r\nThis is also my experience. There are thousands of
    TrueType font\r\nfamilies out there. Some examples:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.fontfreak.com/fonts-g2.htm\r\nhttp://www.1001freefonts.com/fonts/pfonts5.htm\r\n\r\nTypically,
    four truetype files are zipped up into a file which \u2014\r\nroughly speaking
    \u2014 has a size similar to a photograph. Some of the\r\nfonts have legal restrictions
    that prevent their use, some only cover\r\nthe English alphabet, and some are
    poorly designed. However, there are\r\nalso good-looking, freely usable fonts
    out there. These fonts\r\nrepresent an untapped resource for typography on the
    web.\r\n\r\n- - - - - - - - -\r\n\r\nSome more info here - \r\n\r\nhttp://www.ascendercorp.com/webfontstudy.html
    \r\n\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: tomdonahue
    body: "> some are poorly designed. However, there are\r\n> also good-looking,
      freely usable fonts out there\r\n\r\nAs a user with rather poor eyesight that
      isn't getting any better, I hope that if this does go through they also provide
      a way to turn it off, like you can do with images.\r\nNot that I wouldn't love
      to see more variety, but I really need a readable text font and if it just isn't
      working I'd like to be able to fall back to my default fonts, without having
      to turn CSS off completely.\r\n"
    created: '2006-05-09 15:01:08'
  created: '2006-05-08 14:46:44'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "\"...if a small number of \u201Ccompanies\u201D with small and insignificant
    libraries, or an even smaller number of companies with small and significant libraries
    can\u2019t get past their own impotent protection fantasies...\"\r\n\r\nI see
    once again, \"size matters\". Only those of \"significance\" and \"size\" may
    voice opinion, all others just head for the Viagra of rights or limply surender
    since there is no rod or staff to protect them.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-08 14:59:56'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "<cite> David, could you explain how this proposal would affect people\u2019s
    e-mailing of fonts to one another? </cite>\r\n\r\nNothing here or anywhere changes
    people's ability to email fonts to each other, ever. The point is, that the IP
    of digital outline fonts is not protectable, only enforceable. And, something
    changes dramatically for the better in the enforceability when the URL of a font
    enters the code stream of the web. So, I drool. \r\n\r\n<cite>Only those of \u201Csignificance\u201D
    and \u201Csize\u201D may voice opinion, </cite> \r\nI did not say anything of
    opinions not to voice. I said, it'd be a shame if those, who's work is unprotected
    from digital transportation except by hiding or not making to begin with, who
    don't have any stake in the opening of a real market, and others, who seem intent
    on market reduction, were able to bamboozle the public out of its natural right
    to see things differently.\r\n\r\n<cite>Ascender Corp has just released the results[...]</cite>\r\nI
    know, One site, 5,000 fonts, no winners. Ascender, to whom I'm grateful for this
    study, has proven what most of us here, have known for a long time \u2014 Fonts
    that are good for the web, take work in the TrueType hinting tables, Code Pages,
    Name tables, Embedding restrictions and etc.\r\n\r\nBut what is the point? Let
    \   me    see, what is the best way, to make sure, there a more well designed
    and engineered fonts available for users to specify in the composition of web
    pages, not fewer... :)\r\na. Keep it complicated by not having a free and universal
    OS/Browser/FontTech solution?\r\nb. Make it complicated some new and novel way?\r\nc.
    Make it simple, make it universal, make the parts you need to police it if you
    want to. \r\n\r\nMake a market, more good fonts. Choke a market, same old good
    fonts, nothing special        ever. \r\n<font www.fontbureau.com/screen/mine/Yawnbreaksdrool.ttf>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 14:50:31'
- author:
    name: Magnum
  body: "@tomdonahue: That's the beauty of css (in Opera at least). Define your own,
    overriding font set that makes shure all text is readable by you.\r\n\r\n@everybody
    else: I fully support the view of dberlow here. The notion that the w3c take a
    step towards implementing fonts beyond the ones provided by the different OS'es
    is a good one. For the user, the minor OS, the web designer, and done right -
    the font designer. What you don't want to do here is copy the movie/music industries
    and get the public against you. Rather - this is a major opportunity to show where
    those went wrong. Donationware is an opportunity here, given that the fonts in
    use are bundled with contact info and a polite way of telling the 'pirate' you
    appreciate his liking of your work, and very much would be honored if mentioned
    person would contribute according to his own economical ability and use of your
    work.\r\n\r\nYour market is not with the common man, and never will be. But there's
    a small chance you can get the common man to appreciate and notice your work.
    Even make some small money of him. But, come on! Thinking DRM in conjunction with
    fonts is something you simply cannot afford to do. Should web designers do the
    same with their code? It's the same thing."
  created: '2006-06-04 11:23:37'
date: '2006-04-25 18:12:02'
node_type: forum
title: W3C takes a fresh look at linking fonts to Web pages

---
