---
author:
  name: Altan Orhon
body: "http://cgm.cs.mcgill.ca/~luc/\r\n\r\n\"Luc Devroye's site is now closed. He
  is still alive and kicking, but on April 24, 2006, censorship and political correctness
  won against academic freedom. To the students who are counting on my course notes:
  sorry. To the researchers who are trying to download my work: sorry. To the conference
  participants of AofA 2006: sorry. To the readers of my daily social commentary:
  sorry. To the mathematical community: sorry. To the funding agencies of Canada who
  generously supported my work: sorry. We may be up again one day after purgatory.\"\r\n\r\nMr.
  DeVroye's website was a great resource for anyone interested in type, and an invaluable
  one to those interested in font technologies. \r\n\r\nJust yesterday I was going
  to send Mr. DeVroye a message telling him how much I appreciate the time he has
  put into making such a large collection of useful information and links, but I felt
  a bit embarassed about sending it so I didn't. I wish I had, and now I'm going to
  ask him if he has backed up a copy of his pages about fonts.\r\n\r\nYou can still
  reach parts of his website from Google's cache ( http://72.14.203.104/search?q=cache:_73aQEnCgjAJ:cgm.cs.mcgill.ca/~luc/fonts.html+luc+devroye&hl=en&ct=clnk&cd=3&client=safari
  ).\r\n\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: 'What the hell happened? He had a <em>billion</em> cool links. '
  created: '2006-04-26 11:36:12'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "A brandnew website is just being installed.\r\nThe link to his new site will
    be announced\r\nshortly.\r\n\r\nIt would have been a great loss, if his great\r\nunique
    website had been shut down for ever.\r\n\r\nBut Luc has many true friends and
    helpers.\r\n\r\nUli\r\n(www.forgers.de)"
  created: '2006-04-26 12:26:43'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: What's the business about "political correctness" and "academic freedom"?
    Did he have polemical rants that offended his "hosts"? Just curious. Good to know
    the site will be up. Often when I look up anything font-related on Google, his
    site is on the first set of hits!
  created: '2006-04-26 13:07:32'
- author:
    name: terryw
    picture: 109820
  body: "Mr. Devroye had a great collection of links for typography.\r\nHe also had
    an agenda to promote his \u201Cacademic freedom\u201D by actively promoting pirates
    and knock-off fonts and telling lies about type designers. Most of his information
    was correct and factual. Often it was opinionated and libelous. His love for typography
    was contradicted by his disdain for those who would try to make their living designing
    type. May he rest in peace."
  created: '2006-04-26 13:33:20'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "Some good news:\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/\">http://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/</a>\r\n\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: SuperUltraFabulous
      picture: 111522
    body: "Thank you for the link... I love you now... I don't know who the heck you
      are but you just made my afternoon- okay week, month and possibly year :)\r\n\r\n\r\nWinkingly,\r\n\r\nMikey"
    created: '2006-04-28 01:17:43'
  created: '2006-04-26 17:21:02'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: "<cite>His love for typography was contradicted by his disdain for those who
    would try to make their living designing type.</cite>\r\n\r\nYou've never met
    him? You'd quickly find out that especially the last sentence is far from the
    truth. (Last from my quote not from your post.)&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)\r\nThat working
    at a university and working freelance (me too) each has the consequence of emphasizing
    different aspects should not really surprise.\r\n\r\nKarsten"
  created: '2006-04-26 17:30:23'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "Did anyone read about why he moved the site? Hilarious.\r\n\r\nI'm glad to
    see it back up, it's a great resource."
  created: '2006-04-26 17:37:05'
- author:
    name: Sorval
  body: Thanks for the link Karsten, good news indeed!
  created: '2006-04-26 18:18:03'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Luc is a true typophile. \r\nThe issue of intellectual property rights in
    digital culture is a thorny one, and, coming from a non-type industry background,
    Luc apparently stepped on a few toes as he was finding his feet, which I'm sure
    mortified him, but isn't that ancient history now?\r\nHis site put me in touch
    with a lot of people in the Canadian type community, and elsewhere, who I wasn't
    aware of, and on one of my visits to Montreal he took me to the old type section
    of the library at McGill. \r\n"
  created: '2006-04-26 18:38:27'
- author:
    name: jselig
  body: Am I the only one who doesn't quite follow this?
  created: '2006-04-26 18:38:58'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: Oh geez. I just finished a Typographica article speculating that certain commercial
    foundries (with a penchant to sue) had instigated the closure. Now I find that
    it was due to some nudie pics. Hilarious.
  created: '2006-04-26 18:58:12'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "> Oh geez. I just finished a Typographica article speculating that certain
    commercial foundries (with a penchant to sue) had instigated the closure. Now
    I find that it was due to some nudie pics. Hilarious.\r\n\r\nSorry, I couldn't
    disclose this in my first posting.\r\nWhen I looked at the photos of the chicks
    yesterday,\r\nI was thinking that that they are more hilarious\r\nthan my drab
    legal stuff about font forgers :-)\r\n\r\nUli\r\n(www.forgers.de)"
  created: '2006-04-26 19:13:09'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "> A brandnew website is just being installed.\r\n\r\nWhew! That was close.\r\nGodspeed,
    Luc.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-26 19:17:18'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "I do hope that Luc files a grievance against the University,\r\nand I do
    believe McGill owes him an apology.\r\n\r\nOn a side note, so much for a party
    school..."
  created: '2006-04-26 20:43:28'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "<cite>Terry wrote: \"He also had an agenda to promote his \u201Cacademic
    freedom\u201D by actively promoting pirates and knock-off fonts and telling lies
    about type designers. Most of his information was correct and factual.\"</cite>\r\n\r\nHmm,
    I was with you right up to \"most of his information was correct and factual.\"
    I once dissected a lengthy rant of his and pointed out that most of his assertions
    of fact were false, and many of the remainder were at least misleading.\r\n\r\nI'm
    completely supportive of Luc DeVroye's right to express his opinions on any topic
    he likes. And he's welcome to tell lies, as far as I'm concerned, although that
    might get him sued for libel some time. (Usually he's careful to quote other people,
    instead of asserting things directly himself - a clever tactic.)\r\n\r\nHowever,
    what I object to is his posting vast numbers of links to pirated fonts. I particularly
    object to his doing that on a University's web site. I find it ludicrous that
    he could promote theft for years, but he posted some pictures of naked women and
    they shut down the whole site?\r\n\r\nI think McGill owes type foundries an apology.
    I have no particular sympathy for DeVroye. He should have been reined in years
    ago.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 05:15:26'
- author:
    name: amyp
    picture: 109556
  body: "Luc's website was my very own portal to the magical world of type, so I am
    thankful for it and glad to see it back up.\r\n\r\n<em>so much for a party school\u2026</em>\r\n\r\nas
    a McGill alumni, I can say that this is really crazy! I remember back in 1997,
    taking some of my Canadian McGill friends to a nasty frat party at SUNY Plattsburgh
    (small state school in the boonies of upper new york state) and the expressions
    of horror etched into their faces...\r\n\r\nbut maybe we were just nerds.\r\n\r\non
    another side note,\r\nNO McGill students I knew hung out at Club Super Sexe or,
    for that matter, Ste. Catherines street. That was for the cheesy Americans looking
    for a weekend of drunken debauchery.\r\n\r\nsorry, back to type..."
  created: '2006-04-27 05:42:30'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>I have no particular sympathy for DeVroye. He should have been reined
    in years ago.</cite>\r\n\r\nI hear you are with Adobe, and Adobe rocks, but his
    site is where I find most of my googles answered. Typohile.com a close second.\r\n\r\nI'd
    like to suggest the truth lies somewhere in between. Over a beer (or two) you
    guys could probably come to terms (Except maybe for the weird math stuff).\r\n:
    )\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 05:47:21'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>vast numbers of links to pirated fonts</em>\r\n\r\nAre they still there?"
  created: '2006-04-27 05:51:45'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: "> LINK REMOVED Occasionally posts font packages. For example, Adobe Font
    Folio 7, 8, 9 and OT were posted on 31 October 2004.\r\n\r\nHmmm, found this link
    on his site, yes it seems like they are still there... :^/\r\n\r\nHowever, many
    of them seem to be dead now for good."
  created: '2006-04-27 05:57:16'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Geoff, that's a no-no at typophile.
  created: '2006-04-27 06:01:04'
- author:
    name: Geoff Riding
    picture: 110667
  body: (!) My apologies, I seem to have slipped up this time and forgot to remove
    the link before posting. I realised what I had just done after a few minutes,
    link is removed now. My intentions were good, sorry.
  created: '2006-04-27 06:02:40'
- author:
    name: .
  body: "Luc Devroye is a professor in the Math department at McGill University. If
    he wants to run an inaccurate typography database, links to pirated fonts*, a
    blog of social commentary, and photographs of naked women*, he should do it on
    his own server, his own time, and his own dime. McGill was completely within their
    rights to shut him down. And Carleton should do the same. What exactly does the
    typography database have to do with Devroye's math teaching?\r\n\r\nMr Devroye
    lurks on Typophile, and I would be curious to hear his thoughts on this matter
    beyond the insipid statement on \"his\" website; i.e. the directory made available
    to him by McGill University.\r\n\r\n*copyright-protected"
  children:
  - author:
      name: typequake
    body: "\"If he wants to run an inaccurate typography database, links to pirated
      fonts*, a blog of social commentary, and photographs of naked women, he should
      do it on his own server, his own time, and his own dime. McGill was completely
      within their rights to shut him down. And Carleton should do the same. What
      exactly does the typography databse have to do with Devroye\u2019s math teaching?\"\r\n\r\nYour
      logic is weak:\r\n\r\n1. He was shut down for the photos only. What does piracy
      have to do with it? what does inaccuracy?\r\n\r\n2. The fact that Luc is a controversial
      figure (not in my mind) only bolsters the case for free speech, and McGill should
      at the very least not interfere. Bureaucrats don't tell academics what to say.\r\n\r\n3.
      In Canada, you can post link to whatever you want. You can also download whatever
      you want. You only violate copyright laws if you upload. So says the Canadian
      courts, and a good reference is Michael Geist's website (at least his university
      didn't shut him down).\r\n"
    created: '2006-04-27 06:23:16'
  created: '2006-04-27 06:10:26'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: You're right, Period.
  created: '2006-04-27 06:19:40'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "Viva Google cache!\r\n\r\nAnd, Stephen, I was thinking the exact same thing."
  created: '2006-04-27 06:22:49'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Quake, surely Universities can't allow professors to post Playboy pics.\r\nThe
    optics are terrible.\r\n\r\nI don't have a problem with the type site content
    and links, recognizing it as an amateur endeavour.\r\nBut again, having it posted
    on a university site lends it a spurious authority."
  created: '2006-04-27 06:52:01'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: Nick, perhaps you're right, but surely the question is not what universities
    should allow, but what they can prohibit. I don't think bad form gives McGill
    grounds for censorship, and insofar that I believe they interfered with his academic
    freedom (which I interpret very broadly), I'd like to see a grievance filed (which
    I'm sure the university would settle, with an apology).
  created: '2006-04-27 07:01:47'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "Mr. Phinney wrote:\r\n\r\n> ... what I object to is his posting vast numbers
    of links to pirated fonts\r\n> ... He should have been reined in years ago.\r\n\r\nIn
    my opinion, the behaviour of Adobe Inc. is sort of schizophrenic:\r\n\r\nAt Adobe,
    Mr. Charles Geschke, Mr. John Warnock, Mr. Thomas Phinney etc. are acting as \"policemen\"
    and \"prosecutors\" who are running this website:\r\n\r\nhttp://www.adobe.com/aboutadobe/antipiracy/reportform.html\r\n\r\nAt
    this website concerning what they call criminal \"felonies\" which \"can result
    in prison terms of up to five years, and felony charges with fines up to US$250,000\",
    any visitor can report \"suspects\" to Adobe's \"policemen\" and \"prosecutors\".\r\n\r\nBut
    I learnt to my surprise that crime reports received at this Adobe website concerning
    such \"felonies\" are **not** surrendered to the real criminal police or to the
    real public prosecution, but on the contrary, these reports are kept secret by
    Adobe's in-house \"policemen\" and \"prosecutors\". That is sort of schizophrenic,
    but what is more, the refusal to surrender crime reports received to official
    crime-prosecuting authorities is a crime in itself in many countries.\r\n\r\nHere's
    an example for this bizarre behavior:\r\n\r\nFor more than ten years without interruption,
    a font forgery collection CD called \"Schriftenpaket Osteuropa\" has been sold
    in Europe. This CD is a forgery of the Adobe CD \"Font Folio\".\r\n\r\nFor instance,
    today (27th April), this \"Schriftenpaket Osteuropa\" CD is being sold here:\r\n\r\n[Links
    Killed by a moderator with nothing better to do.] \r\n\r\n(Will Typophile moderators
    kill above links so that the police cannot see them?)\r\n\r\nAt my website, I
    documented this font forgery CD \"Schriftenpaket Osteuropa\" here\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sanskritweb.net/forgers/osteuropa1.pdf\r\n\r\nand
    pointed out the bizarre fact (see page 4 of above file) that Adobe's in-house
    \"policemen\" and \"prosecutors\" Charles Geschke, John Warnock, Thomas Phinney
    etc. have always refused to forward crime reports concerning this font forgery
    CD to official crime-prosecuting authorities.\r\n\r\nTherefore it is sort of schizophrenic
    that Mr. Phinney declares in view of Prof. Luc Devroye (who also quoted my above
    documentation on this font forgery CD) that \"he should have been reined in years
    ago.\""
  created: '2006-04-27 12:39:39'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "As a university professor here in the U.S., and an amateur follower of copyright
    issues, I have to say that I agree McGill is within its rights to shut down any
    site it hosts <em>within</em> the parameters it sets forth for operating a site
    on its servers. By using one's server space, email, etc., to provide anything
    that network administrators and any other relevant authorities at the university
    determine is unacceptable, one is essentially violating a contract. And hence,
    one has no right to complain.\r\n\r\nThat said, any actions as drastic as shutting
    down a prof's site have to be conducted with something like due process; that's
    not only fair in the common-sense sense, but also usually a formal component of
    all such administrative processes. I.e., it's generally expected both culturally
    and officially.\r\n\r\n<em>That</em> said, this case has absolutely <em>nothing</em>
    to do with \"academic freedom.\" At least in the States, and as a coordinator
    of a large chunk of courses, I am constantly running into abuses of the term.
    Academic freedom is about the right to speak on <em>political</em> issues freely
    in and out of the classroom without fear of professional retribution. The historical
    context involves people being summarily <em>fired</em> for having the \"wrong\"
    political views (think of the \"Red Scare\" and the Cold War here in the U.S.).
    It doesn't mean \"You can do whatever you want, and say whatever you want, and
    there won't be any consequences.\"\r\n\r\nThere are certainly cases in the States
    in which people have been asked to leave in what <em>appears</em> to be violation
    of academic freedom. But often these very same people are saying things that fly
    in the face of other important values in higher education, such as (a) promoting
    sound and reasonable research rather than lies, (b) maintaining an open and free
    educational environment rather than damaging this environment, and/or (c) bringing
    disrepute upon the institution for any number of reasons (e.g., the revelation
    of a prior criminal record or other damaging material that was not openly revealed
    during the hiring process).\r\n\r\nNevetheless, these are not black and white
    issues. So long live academic freedom and the debate about what it is. Not that
    this has much to do with typography..."
  created: '2006-04-27 13:09:12'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Bottom line, if there were only one set of font links on the internet, there
    isn't even a close second to the extensiveness of Luc's site. Definitely a very
    useful research tool, and although I am sorry about the pirate links (perhaps
    related to the Canadian Socialist way of thinking?) I would be very sorry of that
    resource was no longer available. \r\n\r\nHis <a href=\"http://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/latest.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">\"Latest\"</a> page is one of my favorite time-killers, and
    includes links to many of the fonts being developed and shown here by Typophile's
    regulars."
  created: '2006-04-27 14:32:50'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "What in the blue blazes is wrong with the Socialist way of thinking!?!?\r\n\r\nI've
    recently seen <em>Bowling For Columbine</em>, and it painted a sorry picture of
    the American government's way of thinking in comparison to the Canadian government's
    way of thinking, so I reckon I'd <em>definitively</em> chill on the Canadian-bashing,
    Dennis. :^/"
  created: '2006-04-27 14:40:20'
- author:
    name: Bald Condensed
    picture: 110564
  body: "<em>(Will Typophile moderators kill above links so that the police cannot
    see them?)</em>\r\n\r\nUli, do you really think we haven't got anything better
    to do? Just don't publish them in your post in the first place!\r\n\r\nMan, I
    am growing <em>so</em> tired of your antics..."
  created: '2006-04-27 14:44:45'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "It wasn't bashing, just a remark. Perhaps naive. I'm not an intellectual
    (surprise), but isn't socialism a sort of one-for-all and all-for-one kind of
    thing at it roots? If you take that to a possible conclusion: So, I have as much
    right to your work as you do, in an abstract way. \r\n\r\nOh well, my intentions
    weren't to stir another hornet's nest. Please forgive if I don't have a grasp
    of the concept. For a while I sort of bought into that kind of thing, but it definitely
    has issues, I can tell you that. \r\n\r\nOne that comes to mind is rewarding the
    lazy and punishing the productive. How long until a sense of unfairness manifests
    itself? Maybe some large groups of people are far more altuistic than myself.
    I guess if it is successful I can't argue with it."
  created: '2006-04-27 14:51:09'
- author:
    name: Maurice Meilleur
    picture: 109643
  body: "\"Socialism\" can mean a lot of things, but the safest general way to think
    about it is this: Socialism means the public or common ownership of the means
    of economic production, based on the assumption that private ownership of those
    means, no matter the intention of the owners, over time produces systematic and
    persistent inequalities in society.\r\n\r\nNot even Marx and Engels thought it
    meant I have the right to your personal property, or to steal your possessions,
    or to deprive you of the means of making a living. DeVroye's site and his links
    to pirated fonts have nothing to do with socialism, whatever else you might want
    to say about it (or him)."
  created: '2006-04-27 15:33:51'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>I\u2019ve recently seen Bowling For Columbine</cite>\r\n\r\n\"Indeed,
    even speeches shown on screen are heavily edited, so that sentences are assembled
    in the speaker's voice, but which were not sentences he uttered. Bowling uses
    deception as its primary tool of persuasion and effect.\" was one complaint by
    someone pointing out it didn't qualify for a documentary. Don't believe everything
    Michael Moore tells you would be a good rule of thumb. \r\n\r\nIn my mind Columbine
    was just one result of a society that is allowing God to be outlawed. Yes, it
    is my society and I am not proud.\r\n\r\n<cite>Socialism\u201D can mean a lot
    of things, but the safest general way to think about it is this: Socialism means
    the public or common ownership of the means of economic production, based on the
    assumption that private ownership of those means, no matter the intention of the
    owners, over time produces systematic and persistent inequalities in society.</cite>\r\n\r\nI
    had to put on my thinking cap for that one, but I can see a valid point there,
    I guess. Thanks for the unemotional explanation.\r\n\r\nI still remember (during
    the '70s) people using \"liberating\" something \"For the people\" to justify
    stealing anything they wanted.\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 15:39:38'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "The fascism of the one or the fascism of the masses. Pick your poison. The
    never-ending debate\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-27 15:47:29'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>The fascism of the one or the fascism of the masses. Pick your poison.
    The never-ending debate\u2026</cite>\r\n\r\n<a href=\"http://www.fontplay.com/images2/lightfootnarrow.jpg\"
    target=\"_blank\">Photo by D. Hill, Font: Lightfoot Narrow by Paul Lloyd</a>\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-27 17:34:41'
- author:
    name: terryw
    picture: 109820
  body: "Don\u2019t believe everything anyone tells you would be a good rule of thumb."
  created: '2006-04-27 17:35:18'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "fontplayer - :)\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-27 17:42:10'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Btw, Don\u2019t believe everything anyone tells you to don\u2019t believe.
    (or does that cancel itself out?)\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-04-27 17:42:56'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Already pulled it? Reminded me of Dante's Inferno or In The Heart of Darkness\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-04-27 18:16:36'
- author:
    name: Don McCahill
    picture: 111486
  body: "I suspect that to an American Canada seems socialist. We do have universal
    health care, and a government owned airline and television network. But we also
    have a private airline and several private networks.\r\n\r\nWe have a political
    part that is \"almost\" socialist, the New Democratic Party ... they have never
    gotten much more than 10% of the seats in Paliament, and often much less.\r\n\r\nWe
    have gun control, where you have to register rifles, and handguns are banned.
    It doesn't stop criminals from killing each other (and occasionally the innocent).
    But it does prevent a lot of \"rage\" deaths where people die because someone
    else got pissed off at them (here it results in a punch in the nose, much less
    deadly than a bullet).\r\n\r\nBut really ... what does any of this have to do
    with typography?"
  created: '2006-04-27 19:43:49'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>But really \u2026 what does any of this have to do with typography?</cite>\r\n\r\nNothing
    at all, except someone was jumping down my throat about an off-hand remark, and
    off we went.\r\n\r\n: )"
  created: '2006-04-27 19:56:26'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "The Canadian socialist way of thinking put in power a conservative federal
    government.\r\n\r\nJay, you have a narrow concept of academic freedom. I'm sure
    you'll get tenure."
  created: '2006-04-27 22:56:05'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: ">Jay, you have a narrow concept of academic freedom. I\u2019m sure you\u2019ll
    get tenure.\r\n\r\nWhat, is this flame-bait? Just a little potshot to show you're
    cleverer than me? \r\n\r\n&lt;flameon&gt; You don't know me, you don't have any
    evident clue about the history of the term \"academic freedom,\" you don't understand
    what tenure actually involves (it's 99% granted by your <em>peers</em>, not some
    abstract authoritarian regime), and yet... you proclaim that my view is \"narrow.\"
    Moreover, it was quite plain in my post that I was <em>explaining</em>how things
    work more or less here in the States, and I ended on a note that clearly said
    \"long live the debate,\" which is about as open-minded as anyone can be.\r\n\r\nYawn.&lt;/flameoff&gt;\r\n\r\nBack
    to typography, please.\r\n\r\nP.S. I like Canada. I have relatives in Canada.
    Canada's social and political system is appealing. What more can I say?"
  created: '2006-04-27 23:04:39'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "You call -that- a flame? \r\n\r\nI've taught law, so I think I'm qualified
    for an opinion on the nature of academic freedom and freedom of speech. And, yes
    I do know what tenure is. And You'll know better, too, when you get to write a
    review of one of your peers one day. I hope you won't judge him/her according
    to their website. Cheers!"
  created: '2006-04-28 00:14:17'
- author:
    name: jlg4104
    picture: 111297
  body: "Uh, I actually don't give a damn what people put on their web sites. If some
    professor at McGill wants to reproduce copyrighted images of hot chicks squirming
    in front of a camera, I frankly don't care. Maybe if they were my daughter, that'd
    be another story. Then again, if my daughter ended up in a porno mag, well, we'd
    probably have to have a father-daughter discussion about that.\r\n\r\nAnyway,
    if I judge my peers, it's on the quality of their work. But if I'm working for
    an organization that pays me my paycheck, despite all of the checks and balances
    I expect to operate, and despite all of the freedom of thought and expression
    I'd expect to enjoy, if I put stuff up on the site that violated a pre-existing
    rule I've tacitly or explicitly agreed to about what's acceptable, then tough
    nuts for me.\r\n\r\nI could of course argue my case, and perhaps even take my
    university to court. But I couldn't summarily dismiss their right to act on their
    intepretation of the situation and applicable rules any more than I'd expect them
    to simply pull the plug on my site.\r\n\r\nBut perhaps, because this is a flame-exchange,
    you were making a sneaky comment about the quality of my own site? In other words,
    if I expected to get tenure on the quality of my site (which you can access via
    my profile), and my site really sucked, then I'd better be careful before judging
    others on the basis of their sites? Now <em>that</em> would have been a clever
    jab. For you would have been insulted not only me, but also my hounds! <em>They</em>
    insisted I put their picture up there, even though it kinda ruins the balance
    of things.\r\n\r\nThis still has nothing to do with academic freedom, though.
    And little to do with fonts, either."
  created: '2006-04-28 00:46:49'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Where's Miss Tiffany when you need her?\r\n; )"
  created: '2006-04-28 00:51:28'
- author:
    name: Miss Tiffany
    picture: 110563
  body: I agree with Jay's second paragraph in regards to this thread topic. I don't
    see why people are being so (in)sensitive lately. Is it the weather? Can we please
    stop and get back on topic?
  created: '2006-04-28 01:10:17'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "That is I love Ms. Karsten \r\n\r\nhehehe.\r\n\r\nMike"
  created: '2006-04-28 01:21:17'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "Jay,\r\n\r\nI did not refer to the quality of your site. That's one area
    I'm not qualified to discuss. And I didn't take any personal jabs at you at all,
    so my apologies if you were offended -- my intention was to argue that academic
    freedom is not required for the \"company men\" but especially for the avant-gardes
    or shitditurbers.\r\n\r\nAs for the \"contract\" or \"pre-existing rule\": here
    you should investigate more. McGill is a public university, not a private institution.
    No rule it could make, or any contract it would be party to, could deprive its
    employee of a protected right. Taking down the entire site was a serious infringement.\r\n\r\nBut
    you were right about the process (not \"due process\" - your constitution has
    territorial limits) - any disciplinary measure or enforcement of policy that infringed
    on Luc's rights would require a fair hearing at the first opportunity. That's
    why I believe that Luc would win an apology. Can we be friends now?"
  created: '2006-04-28 02:40:07'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Just in case someone is just jumping in this tread Luc Devroye's page is
    NO LONGER CLOSED. \r\n\r\nIT JUST MOVED... that's all.\r\n\r\nYou can access the
    who shabang again at:\r\nhttp://cg.scs.carleton.ca/~luc/fonts.html\r\n\r\nMikey\r\n\r\nPS...
    If Mr. Devroye's page has links to pirated stuff I have never seen it however
    I will avoid it if I see it. I think using pirated software is very very tacky.
    The people that download that kind of stuff are probably not good designers anyway.
    So if they do download it and lets say make 'something' with it- you know it's
    gonna look like crap. Nobody hires crappy designers and they will soon be out
    of the job. It will collect dust in there seven year old windoze-me boxes and
    nothng will become of it. So there :) \r\n\r\n{I'm being silly but downloading
    pirated stuff is for morons}"
  created: '2006-04-28 03:20:14'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<a href=\"http://apostrophiclab.pedroreina.net/0182-Devroye/devroye.html\"
    target=\"_blank\">*HERE*</a> is a nice font named after Dr. Luc \r\n\r\nHere are
    the details of the support given in the Devroye Open Type font:\r\n\r\n-Scripts
    supported: Cyrillic, Greek, and Latin.\r\n\r\n-Languages supported: Cyrillic,
    Greek, English, Bulgarian, Baltic, Czech, Danish, German, Spanish, Finnish, French,
    Croatian, Hungarian, Icelandic, Italian, Dutch, Norwegian, Polish, Romanian, Slovenian,
    Swedish, Turkish, and Vietnamese.\r\n\r\n- Extended Latin A and B glyphs are also
    included with this version for even wider linguistic support than mentioned above.
    \  \r\n\r\n- The following OpenType features are supported within this version,
    for all the laguages and scripts listed above:\r\n1) Small Caps\r\n2) Caps to
    Small Caps\r\n3) Oldstyle Figures\r\n4) Standard Ligatures\r\n5) Discretionary
    Ligatures\r\n6) Historical Forms\r\n7) Stylistic Alternates\r\n8) Kerning\r\n9)
    Tabular Figures\r\n\r\n- DEVROYE_.OTF contains 711 glyphs, including the Euro
    in both the Euro and the Currency cells. A Euro symbol substitution for OsF combinations
    is also included in the Small Caps feature.\r\n\r\nAnd here is a quote from my
    Luc Hall of Fame page: \r\n\r\n\u201CI've often heard it said that one measure
    to judge the vitality and quality of life of a university or a locality is its
    library, particularly by its available reference library in general and reference
    librarians in particular. If that is indeed the case then the typographical community
    is doing very well indeed thanks to the wonderful work of Luc Devroye. It did
    not take me long, after first discovering it many years ago, to realize that venturing
    anywhere else on the Web for information regarding anything to do with typography
    was absolutely pointless. Search engines, commercial and free font sites, friends
    recommendations etc....nothing has ever turned up via any other source that isn't
    somehow documented and reviewed by Luc. \r\n\r\nIt has been such a time saver
    to read his expert abstracts and distilling of the information offered by other
    sites. His site has not tried to push any particular viewpoint down the visitors'
    throat, rather it has encouraged and enabled all to explore and learn about a
    subject so rich in history. In this age on information overload, where conflicting
    statements on the Web are presented as the \"gospel truth\" by a variety of site
    authors, it is comforting to know that there is always one refuge you can go to
    where there is no agenda other than the love of type. In addition, one could never
    find a site better maintained; in all my many hundreds (thousands??? <g>) of trips
    to it I can never recall when it has not been updated within the previous 24 hours.
    That, to me, is dedication supreme.\r\n\r\nDoes Luc warrant inclusion in the \"Hall
    Of Fame\" pages?? They would be the \"Hall Of Shame\" pages if he were left out.
    To Dr. Devroye I can only say thank you, thank You.\u201D - Mark Johansson\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-28 03:21:11'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Oh and one other thing...\r\n\r\nIf a designer needs to purchase a font(s)
    to complete a project for a client don't you just charge the client for it or
    use your advance funds? When you are brainstorming or reviewing proofs with a
    client don't you discuss costs for things that satisfy the client?\r\n\r\nI just
    don't see a need to steal if you are in fact a professional. If you work for a
    bureau/design firm coming up with cost estimates for the client always includes
    moneys that are to be allocated for spending on needed supplies (such as fonts)?\r\n\r\nI
    know this thinking does not even included academic/non-profit situations, or poeple
    that take delight in stealing (seedy designers). There are more caveats but I
    just don't get the whole need-to-steal thing anyways.\r\n\r\nOpinons??? Please
    post them.\r\n\r\nNaive-ly Yours,\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-04-28 03:47:50'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Why would anyone, including Adobe, be afraid of freedom of speech and the
    expression of ideas?\r\n\r\nLuc lives. And a better world for it.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-04-28 06:22:48'
- author:
    name: k.l.
    picture: 110875
  body: Sorry for moving the topic again but ... Karsten is a male name. Thanks nevertheless.&nbsp;&nbsp;;-)
  created: '2006-04-28 10:08:15'
- author:
    name: terryw
    picture: 109820
  body: "Does Luc have any links for free downloadable copies of Gerald's letterpress
    book?\r\nLike fonts, I could buy it legally, but why should I if Luc posts links?\r\nThat
    makes it \"freedom of speech\"?"
  created: '2006-04-28 15:51:00'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "Yea, let's *liberate* Gerald's book \"for the people\". (who's Gerald?) Power
    to the people. Wow, I almost feel like I'm on campus. Let's take over a building
    and resist the pigs until they get out of Cambodia, uh, I mean Iraq.\r\n\r\n<a
    href=\"http://www.fontplay.com/images2/devroyelearning.jpg\" target=\"_blank\">To
    veer off from this flashback: Devroye</a>\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-28 16:02:08'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: 'Freedom of speech is limited by laws of libel, and also in this case by the
    requirements of intellectual property rights. I do not know to what extent Mr.
    DeVroye''s site violates these (zero or a lot), but I am saddened that some here
    do not seem to recognize that these are legitimate limitations on freedom of speech.
    Respecting them helps the type industry, and violating them hurts it. '
  created: '2006-04-28 16:19:29'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite> am saddened that some here do not seem to recognize that these are
    legitimate limitations on freedom of speech.</cite> \r\n\r\nI hope you realize
    I was being sarcastic. As was (I think) the previous poster. I don't know who
    doesn't agree with you. I only know Luc's pages are very helpful, and that he
    has been very reasonable in my correspondence.\r\n\r\nIf he has something that
    is out of order, perhaps <cite>instead</cite> of acting like a jerk or getting
    all pompous  (not speaking of you), people should just communicate on a personal
    friendly level, and who knows...?\r\n\r\nI know that a lot of people are put off
    by people who are too heavy-handed. I am, for one."
  created: '2006-04-28 16:33:22'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "terryw\r\n\r\nThe concept of \"freedom of speech\" allowes me to publish
    in a form where I can express my ideas. If Luc provides links to illegal downloadable
    copies of my book, which is copyrighted and protected in that regard, he has every
    right to do so. \r\n\r\nIt is the violator of my rights in this regard, the illegal
    copier who is my concern (and who is liable for his/her actions), not someone
    who provides information in the form of links. In fact, Luc's link would be of
    great benefit to me. Over the eight year publishing duration of this book, three
    \"cease and desist\" complaints have been issued, all of them to institutions.
    \r\n\r\nThe flip side of this of course is the would be consumer. If you prefer
    to steal the fruits of other folks efforts, rather than pay for them, that ultimately,
    is your problem. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-28 20:04:17'
- author:
    name: terryw
    picture: 109820
  body: The point was, his site was far more than expression of ideas, it was also
    an active promotion of piracy. I do not advocate the stealing of your book anymore
    than I  would advocate the stealing of fonts. a link to a known pirated font is
    equally bad as hosting the pirrated font. In my opinion only of course. Luc was
    a hero to most. He did also harm some type designers.
  created: '2006-04-28 20:14:20'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "This is as good a place as any to insert an elaboration of how *not* to deal
    with these kinds of things.\r\n\r\nEven if you think you've been harmed, it is
    important to appear civil and reasonable. Otherwise you will instigate what I
    call the \"Treacy Effect\". Which is that even people who agree with him want
    to see his whole offering spread far and wide as a sort of cosmic retribution.\r\n\r\nThe
    people who can make their point without getting nasty have much more influence
    over me. It was just such an appeal in the Usenet group years ago (who it was,
    I don't know) that got me to see the other side of the downloading issue.\r\n\r\nAnd
    it also had the side-effect of giving me a sense of freedom, since without having
    to have every font made by everyone, it was much easier to manage the whole affair.\r\n\r\nNow
    I pretty much just dump my fontplays in there and very little else. I perhaps
    flatter myself by thinking someone will see that nice things can be done with
    free fonts, and it could help free them too.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-04-28 20:25:57'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "Surely it's possible to be ambivalent about this, and take the good with
    the bad.\r\nIt's not as if Luc's site is primarily a portal to piracy, that's
    a small part of it, and it doesn't seem that he's breaking any laws. \r\n\r\nThe
    same could be said about Apple, Microsoft, and Adobe: their positive contribution
    to digital typography is immense, but at the same time their practice of font
    bundling \"does harm to type designers\" and \"should have been reined in years
    ago\"."
  created: '2006-04-28 20:40:51'
- author:
    name: terryw
    picture: 109820
  body: "<em>practice of font bundling \u201Cdoes harm to type designers\u201D</em>\r\n\r\nUnless
    you happen to be one of those type designers who get 00,02 per font x 10,000,000.
    Then it is not so bad. We should be so lucky."
  created: '2006-04-28 20:45:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">a lot of people are put off by people who are too heavy-handed\r\n\r\nThat's
    absolutely true, Fontplayer. How do you suggest dealing with a situation where
    anyone who suggests that stealing music or fonts is labelled a spoil sport and
    ought to lighten up?\r\n\r\nPersonally, I don't think it's an accident that where
    music theft is rampant that the current music is pretty poor also. When money
    is tight, companies won't take the risk of developing new artists the way they
    used to to, so it is difficult to get anything but lowest common denominator stuff
    into the market place. I'm not saying this is the whole story behind the failure
    of the record companies to nurture talent, but I do think it is part of it. \r\n\r\nAnd
    suppose I am right. Then music theft has led to a great decline in the quality
    of music, and the crushing of a lot of talented musicians out there. So when both
    music and musicians are hurt, I don't think 'lighten up' is on target. But how
    do you make the point ? "
  created: '2006-04-28 22:16:15'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>But how do you make the point?</cite>\r\n\r\nMy feeling is the reasonable
    people will respond to politeness and a patient explanation. The unreasonable
    people will ignore you regardless. But at least the reasonable people will be
    affected and the unreasonable people won't step it up a notch just to spite you.\r\n\r\nWith
    nastiness, in no time at all you can be drawn into \"Who is the Biggest Idiot\"
    contest with the unreasonable. And some of the reasonable people will even take
    pot-shots at you because you are such an easy target."
  created: '2006-04-28 22:25:50'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: "It looks like this story is bigger than typography. Devroye has been inundated
    with interview requests: http://news.google.com/news?hl=en&ned=us&q=devroye&btnG=Search+News\r\n\r\nThat
    said, let's keep this thread related to his font pages as much as possible."
  created: '2006-04-29 01:53:52'
- author:
    name: Uli
  body: "From \"A sad day\" to \"A happy day\"\r\n\r\nRead the new message uploaded
    by Luc last night:\r\n\r\nhttp://cgm.cs.mcgill.ca/~luc/\r\n\r\nThis case was a
    lecture about our world of today, about the brave who still dare to tell the truth
    and about cowards who have \"shit in the trousers\", as we say in Germany. (Das
    englische Wort f\xFCr Schiss wird bei Typophile automatisch durch vier Striche
    ersetzt und belegt auf anschauliche Weise, da\xDF viele Amerikaner heutzutage
    \"Schiss in der Hose haben\".)\r\n\r\nUli"
  created: '2006-04-29 10:16:20'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "I want to add two comments:\r\n\r\nFirst, Luc's site can be credited with
    introducing me to typography. Yet until this debate, I was NOT EVEN AWARE that
    he had links to pirated fonts.\r\n\r\nSecond, some people confuse the state of
    things as they like it to be with the law. The fact that I (and most everyone
    else here) wish to see designers justly rewarded for their work, doesn't make
    IP rights in type design come to life. For example, downloading copyrighted music
    is legal in Canada (and it ain't \"theft\" anywhere on the planet, because the
    original owner is not dispossessed of anything), and -- unfortunately for designers
    -- merely downloading your fonts is legal too (using them for certain purposes
    might be a different matter). So if downloading is not a violation of copyright,
    certainly posting the links is legal.  Now, you can make a moral case, but others
    could make the opposite case -- and that brings us back to the question of free
    speech and academic freedom."
  created: '2006-04-30 01:55:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">original owner is not dispossessed of anything\r\n\r\nexcept payment for
    his or her hard work. "
  created: '2006-04-30 03:16:57'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: 'To dispossess: "To deprive (another) of the possession or occupancy of something".
    Your intentions are good, but you''re still wrong.'
  created: '2006-04-30 03:33:21'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Not necessarily. It is only licensed copyright material that can be downloaded.
    Unlicensed copyrighted material may not be downloaded unless the holder of the
    rights allows it to be so. Copyright doesn't just protect against copying or pirating,
    it protects against unlicensed distribution. If a musician did not want his/her
    work to be distributed through a certain venue, they are protected (or at least
    have recourse to legal action).\r\n\r\nType designers have to seek other ways
    for protection, leasing contracts and such, since type design per se cannot generally
    be copyrighted (in the US)."
  created: '2006-04-30 03:57:19'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "<cite>To dispossess: \u201CTo deprive (another) of the possession or occupancy
    of something\u201D</cite>\r\n\r\nIt can't be argued that he is being deprived
    of income? In any case, y'all might find today's quote at litquotes.com apropos:\r\n\r\n\"The
    law will argue any thing, with any body who will pay the law for the use of its
    brains and its time.\"\r\nWilkie Collins\r\n\r\nWhich reminds me of a Reagan quote:\r\n\r\n\"It
    has been said that politics is the second oldest profession. I have learned that
    it bears a striking resemblance to the first.\""
  created: '2006-04-30 04:00:47'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "For your information, Canada is soevereign and US law doesn't apply. Downloading
    is legal according to Canadian courts.\r\n\r\nAnd Fontplayer, depriving someone
    of potential income is not the same as  \"theft\" - just read my comment again.
    You know, I have four books of legal quotes and jokes about the law. They're always
    made by someone who doesn't like a particular legal rule."
  created: '2006-04-30 04:13:18'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "Typequake, you don't get it. \r\n\r\nUploading in Canada is illegal, but
    downloading not, your courts ruled. The issue isn't whether music sharing is theft
    of intellectual property, but who is the thief. \r\n\r\nAlso in the Canadian parliament
    a law was introduced to change the situation--I don't know what its status is.
    \r\n\r\nHere is what is happening:\r\n\r\n\"How has file sharing affected the
    Canadian recording industry?\r\n\r\nIn Canada, the Canadian Recording Industry
    Association estimates losses to the Canadian industry at about $250 million in
    sales over the past three years. That's a 20 per cent drop in annual sales. This
    is despite the Canadian Private Copying Collective, which was formed in 1999 to
    offset royalties lost to digital file sharing. The CPCC taxes hardware and software
    that allows digital recordings, whether or not they are being used for music.
    It then distributes the money to composers, performers, publishers and record
    labels. The CPCC collected $28 million in 2000 and 2001. There is no similar program
    in the U.S.\"\r\n\r\nSo you still think no harm is done to musicians? And that
    the practice of file sharing is legal?\r\n\r\nAnd facilitating an illegal process
    that harms people--uploading rights protected material--is moral? You say there
    is a case to be made for its morality: What is that case?"
  created: '2006-04-30 04:51:23'
- author:
    name: typequake
  body: "I don't know if I should respond, since you pick and choose from what I type,
    but don't seem to read it, and because I don't know if your mind is open to what
    I am saying. Let me try once more though:\r\n\r\n1. I made a legal distinction
    between copyright infringement and theft. In your eyes they are equivalent because
    of your commendable agenda, but legally they differ. That's all.\r\n\r\n2. I have
    no desire to argue about IP policy in Canada. The issue extends far beyond your
    commercial interests, and I haven't formulated an opinion. However:\r\n\r\n3.
    I'll say it again, that Luc couldn't have violated Canadian copyright law by posting
    links to material the downloading of which is legal. Hence, McGill could not have
    shut down his website on IP grounds.\r\n\r\nIf you wish to debate me on these
    points, I'm game. Otherwise, I don't want to be dragged into an argument where
    you portray me as the bad guy simply for challenging the assumptions shared by
    you and your colleagues. I should not be bullied on these fora for expressing
    different opinions. I'd like the law to be upheld, but you don't get to make the
    law."
  created: '2006-04-30 05:22:39'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "Harm done to musicians? Since when do recording companies promote musicians?
    I tought they just slapped play backs on top models and sold the product.\r\n\r\nReally,
    I have heard much better music from independet labels  and artists than from most
    big recording companies.\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-04-30 06:50:32'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: "The root of musicians and artists of all kinds getting short-changed in so
    many ways, is a lack of broad-based appreciation for arts in general. \r\n\r\nIt
    is considered by many to be a luxury or indulgence. As a musician, I have had
    my spirit wounded when I am at a club to see one of the world's greats, and they
    are being ignored by two-thirds of the people who consider it background music.
    Small wonder some club owners would choose to play canned music rather than pay
    a good group to play. \r\n\r\nMany people don't have a creative bone in their
    body, and wouldn't mind if Algerian were the only display face, Arial the only
    sans and Times New Roman the only serif fonts. To some people I know, my interest
    in fonts is only slightly less strange than how they might view someone with a
    <cite>serious</cite> mental disorder."
  created: '2006-05-01 18:00:21'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">I should not be bullied \r\n\r\nTypequake, I asked you for an argument for
    the morality of downloading, when uploading is illegal and hurts people. I think
    that's a reasonable question, not bullying, since you yourself stated that there
    is such a case. \r\n\r\n>Since when do recording companies promote musicians?
    I tought they just slapped play backs on top models and sold the product.\r\n\r\nI
    believe that the record companies spend millions on promoting the likes of Britney
    Spears. That they don't invest in developing talented new artists and instead
    rely on the odd breakthrough from independent, underfunded artists is the problem.
    My guess is that the financial pinch has made them more risk averse, which is
    bad for art. "
  created: '2006-05-02 01:15:04'
- author:
    name: jordy
    picture: 110518
  body: Having met Luc and been taken to the McGill library, talked with him about
    type and bicycle riding - we both love the sport - it saddens me greatly that
    Luc would be attacked in this way. I can't think of a nicer guy who has devoted
    his life to his work. His "disdain for those who would try to make their living
    designing type." You've got to be kidding! Linking to font pirates - so what.
    Dislike of certain major players in the type industry. Right on brother! Doesn't
    like open type. Fine. Rants about the corporate world of type hustlers in the
    big time. Fine. Freedom of the press. Haven't heard of it?
  created: '2006-05-22 11:53:56'
- author:
    name: Stephen Coles
    picture: 128126
  body: <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/158274917/">Eben Sorkin just
    met Luc</a> on his whirlwind <a href="http://www.flickr.com/photos/ebensorkin/archives/date-taken/2006/05/">Canada
    Type Tour</a> and shot a perfect portrait.
  created: '2006-06-01 23:53:54'
- author:
    name: fontplayer
    picture: 111445
  body: He needs someone to clean his blackboard erasers. Doesn't Canada's math community
    have any suck-ups?
  created: '2006-06-02 04:03:21'
- author:
    name: "Hector Mu\xF1oz"
    picture: 110313
  body: "And so where's the girs?\r\n\r\nH\xE9ctor"
  created: '2006-06-05 18:28:35'
date: '2006-04-26 11:10:15'
title: Luc DeVroye's website has been closed!

---
