---
author:
  name: hrant
  picture: 110403
body: 'A golden article about Gentium: <BR><a href="http://www.lisa.org/archive_domain/newsletters/2003/4.3/gaultney.html"
  target="_blank">http://www.lisa.org/archive_domain/newsletters/2003/4.3/gaultney.html</a>
  <BR> <BR>My favorite part&#42;: <BR>&#34;For example, the Latin '
comments:
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'I can confirm Victor&#39;s comment about the omicron. In a low contrast sans
    serif type, such as the Helvetica Linotype Greek, I&#39;ve been able to unify
    the Latin o and Greek omicron, but in higher contrast book types it is seldom
    an option unless the Latin is particularly condensed. Even if I am maintaining
    the ductus of the Latin in the Greek &#40;which I am increasingly loath to do,
    but that&#39;s another topic&#41;, I generally find that the omicron needs to
    be narrower than the o. In a typeface I am working on at the moment, the different
    is only 10/2048 units, but it is enough to significantly improve the melody of
    the Greek. Note that I say melody and not rhythm: this too is another topic. <BR>
    <BR>Of all the scripts I&#39;ve designed for to date, Greek is consistently the
    hardest, but it is also my favourite.'
  created: '2003-11-06 05:57:39'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Well, I&#39;m glad you&#39;ve changed your mind.  :-&#62; <BR>Next for Cyrillic!
    <BR> <BR>&#62; I say melody and not rhythm <BR> <BR>Hmmm. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-11-06 06:05:21'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: I have not changed my mind. I have maintained for a long time that the Greek
    and Latin <i>lowercase</i> letters, because they developed completely independently
    of each other, under the influence of different cultures and different writing
    implements, are only artificially unified. The Cyrillic script is a more complex
    case, because of the importation of a specifically Latin model, and the long relegation
    of the historical style to religious texts. I&#39;m not in favour of turning back
    the clock 250 years in the interests of exoticism. In the case of Greek, there
    is no clock to be turned back, only a very recent and unfortunate fashion in graphic
    design that favoured Latinised Greek types.
  created: '2003-11-06 06:23:42'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'Come on, John. <BR> <BR>And I&#39;m not talking about returning to pre-Petrine
    forms here - that&#39;s a different fish. <BR> <BR>The Cyrillic &#34;cognates&#34;
    need to be different than their Latin counterparts for the same reason that the
    Greek omicron needs to be different than the &#34;o&#34;: <i>language</i> - you
    know, the stuff our fonts are used to set. The level of historical sensitivity
    you describe is insular and self-referential. The needs of the living users come
    first. Plus Cyrillic came from Greek anyway! <BR> <BR>Greek has more rounds than
    Latin, and Cyrillic a lot less. It makes total sense for that to affect the Whites,
    and if you believe in notan, the Blacks are tied in too. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-11-06 06:39:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: 'The original Cyrillic script was developed from Greek uncial letterforms.
    Like the Latin lowercase, the Cyrillic lowercase developed in isolation from the
    Greek lowercase; the Petrine reform Latinised even the remnant Greek forms, which
    is why Russian <i>ef</i> and Greek <i>phi</i> are very distinct forms. <BR> <BR>The
    Greek lowercase is a Byzantine development: it belongs to Constantinople, Alexandria
    -- it is as much a product of the Middle East as of &#39;Europe&#39; &#40;and
    like the other major scripts of the Middle East, the Greek lowercase has a steep
    ductus and involves rotation as well as translation.&#41; If it can be said to
    have developed alongside other scripts, those were neither Latin nor Cyrillic:
    they were Arabic and Hebrew. <BR> <BR>I&#39;ve designed several Cyrillic typefaces,
    and have extensively tested all of them, and I have not found <i>any</i> good
    reason not to unify Latin and Cyrillic cognates &#40;whereas I don&#39;t accept
    that Latin and Greek even have cognates&#41;. Nor have any of my more experienced
    Russian colleagues with whom I have corresponded, and who know a lot more about
    the needs of living Cyrillic readers than you. Don&#39;t think I have not thought
    about this. What are the cognates? a e o p c y x for upright Russian, plus i j
    s for Ukrainian and Serbian. The counters of a e o p determine the appropriate
    width and weight of the other letters in the Cyrillic script, much as they do
    in the Latin script, and they have done so for 250&#43; years. In designing Latin
    type you can easily begin with just o and base the proportions of the other letters
    on that, and you can do exactly the same thing in Cyrillic. <BR> <BR>Now, the
    vast majority of Cyrillic typeface designs begin with an existing Latin design,
    so the influence is entirely one directional. My preferred working method is to
    design Latin and Cyrillic together; in fact, for design purposes, I might as well
    consider them a single script. So it is not that my Latin o determines the width
    of my Cyrillic <i>i</i>, but that my letter o determines the width of my letters
    n and <i>i</i>. <BR> <BR>One interesting aspect of this approach is that a letter
    like <i>ze</i> can be developed in isolation from other Cyrillic forms, and checked
    against the width of the Latin s, even though the latter does not occur in the
    Russian alphabet. If properly balanced against s, the <i>ze</i> will be found
    to also be well proportioned relative to other Cyrillic letters. Why? Because
    all the letters are informing and influencing each other without regard for nominal
    script divisions. <BR> <BR>Latin and Cyrillic are the only scripts that I approach
    in this way &#40;excepting the Greek uppercase, which is almost entirely cognate
    with Latin and Cyrillic&#41;. If I&#39;m designing a Latin-Cyrillic-Greek typeface,
    I always design the Latin and Cyrillic lowercase together; then the Latin, Cyrillic
    and Greek uppercase together; then the Greek lowercase last, because it is a different
    writing system and requires a kind of psycho-cultural distance.'
  created: '2003-11-06 08:25:37'
- author:
    name: maxim_zhukov
    picture: 110142
  body: '&#62; <i>The Cyrillic &#34;cognates&#34; need to be different than their
    Latin counterparts for the same reason that </i>[...] <BR> <BR>I admire your self-confidence.
    <BR> <BR>&#62; <i>The needs of the living users come first.</i> <BR> <BR>Whose
    needs? Mine? I suspect I am a &#39;living user&#39;. Spasibo.'
  created: '2003-11-06 14:47:17'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: 'John, you keep using history as a crutch. <BR> <BR>&#62; I have not found
    any good reason not to unify Latin and Cyrillic cognates <BR> <BR>Here&#39;s two:
    <BR>1&#41; Vertical proportions. Which is why when you equate the x-heights Cyrillic
    seems smaller &#40;ie less important&#41;. <BR>2&#41; Cyrillic has more straights.
    This means the spacing has to be looser. This means the bodies have to be more
    open &#40;because of notan&#41;. For example in Armenian, you shouldn&#39;t make
    the vo the same as the &#34;n&#34;; Cyrillic is essentially a less pronounced
    case of the same thing. <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>Maxim: I believe that catering to
    laymen is very different than catering to other designers! <BR> <BR>In any craft
    there is some inertia/conservatism, and certainly this helps hone skills and delve
    deeper. But change/progress is good too. In the 70s the Greeks didn&#39;t see
    any reason to make the their script different from Latin either, but now they
    do. Hopefully we won&#39;t have to wait until 2030 for the same to happen to Cyrillic!
    <BR> <BR>A great example of progress is Adobe&#39;s recent Sava: <BR><a href="http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/P/P_1506.jhtml"
    target="_blank">http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/P/P_1506.jhtml</a> <BR>It&#39;s
    not a text face, but that &#34;Y&#34; is very encouraging. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-11-06 15:43:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; I have not found any good reason not to unify Latin and Cyrillic cognates
    <BR> <BR>BTW, I&#39;ve been meaning to ask: <BR>Let&#39;s think about the converse:
    What reasons are there to make the cognates identical? <BR>I can think of two
    reasons &#40;both not very good, in my opinion&#41;, but I&#39;ll wait for your
    answer. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-11-06 17:06:33'
- author:
    name: maxim_zhukov
    picture: 110142
  body: '&#62; <i>John, you keep using history as a crutch.</i> <BR> <BR>Great argument.
    Come to think of it, you&#39;re right. John is an expert, and expertise may be
    considered a handicap. You feel humbled. You think, &#39;I know that I know nothing&#39;.  <BR>
    <BR>Ignorance, on the other hand, is so liberating. It allows you to highlight
    problems so easily, to come up with broard generalisations, to jump to conclusions,
    to voice your opinion unhesitatingly, to offer solutions and advice to them Tamils,
    Tibetans and Tajiks on how to reform their scripts. Piece of cake. Fun too. <BR>
    <BR>&#39;For in much wisdom is much grief. And he who increases knowledge increases
    sorrow.&#39; Indeed. <BR> <BR>&#62; <i>Maxim: I believe that catering to laymen
    is very different than catering to other designers!</i> <BR> <BR>You caterin&#39;
    to me? <BR> <BR>&#62; <i>In the 70s the Greeks didn&#39;t see any reason to make
    the their script different from Latin either, but now they do. Hopefully we won&#39;t
    have to wait until 2030 for the same to happen to Cyrillic!</i> <BR> <BR>Are you
    trying to foster our liberation from Latin slavery? How considerate of you. <BR>
    <BR>&#62; <i>A great example of progress is Adobe&#39;s recent Sava: <a href="http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/P/P_1506.jhtml"
    target="_blank">http://www.adobe.com/type/browser/P/P_1506.jhtml</a>. It&#39;s
    not a text face, but that &#34;Y&#34; is very encouraging.</i> <BR> <BR>That &#39;Y&#39;?
    Encouraging... whom? to what? Take it from a &#39;living user&#39;: Sava is indeed
    a very nice <i>Akzidenzschrift</i> but its design has no more bearing on Russian
    typographic conventions than, say, Hammer Uncial on Latin.'
  created: '2003-11-06 19:19:05'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: I have much to learn, but at least I freely admit it and are eager to advance.
    <BR> <BR>Some people on the other hand are either too set in their ways and/or
    too afraid of admitting doubt. <BR> <BR>Everything is a two-edged sword. Yes,
    even knowledge - because it&#39;s <i>always</i> limited. <BR> <BR>&#62; Piece
    of cake. <BR> <BR>No, it&#39;s actually pretty hard, when you consider I&#39;m
    up against the crushing weight of the establishment. It&#39;s not easy arguing
    against you, Maxim! <BR> <BR>&#62; You catering to me? <BR> <BR>To some extent,
    yes - although not you specifically, more like the design establishment. <BR>That&#39;s
    because peer acceptance does have value, even though it should always be secondary
    to catering to the real users. And laymen don&#39;t get all this stuff, they only
    <i>feel</i> some of it, and very subjectively. <BR> <BR>&#62; Are you trying to
    foster our liberation from Latin slavery? <BR> <BR>Yup. It&#39;s basically a fight
    against globalisation. <BR>I would do the same for the Greeks, but they seem to
    be doing OK now. <BR> <BR>As for Sava, it&#39;s encouraging to <i>me</i>, at least.
    It indicates that you can make a font that goes against the superficial Modernist
    fallacy of identical cognates and still get it sold through the most mainstream
    font house out there. And maybe it&#39;s encouraging to Serbs as well? They&#39;re
    rightful users of Cyrillic too. <BR> <BR>And nobody can predict the influence
    of something. Although it&#39;s not <i>probable</i>, Sava could possibly be a
    great catalyst. And maybe so can I. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-11-06 19:45:56'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Specifically, I&#39;m eager to learn if there are reasons I&#39;m unaware
    of for making the Cyrillic Veh identical to the Latin &#34;B&#34; for example.
    Releasing a font sooner is good business, but not good culture. Are there better
    reasons? To some people the fact that a Tsar messed things up 250 years ago is
    reason enough, but not to me, and I believe not to laymen either. Maybe in Canada
    250 years is a lot, but I suspect not in Russia, and I&#39;m sure not for an Armenian.
    <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-11-06 20:17:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>Some people on the other hand are either too set in their ways and/or
    too afraid of admitting doubt.</i> <BR> <BR>I hope you&#39;re not talking about
    me. I try very hard, sometimes against prejudice, to consider the possibility
    that you are right and I am wrong. This is why I discuss things with you. And
    when you say that Cyrillic letters should be differentiated from their Latin cognates,
    <i>I think about it</i>. I think about the Cyrillic typefaces I&#39;ve designed,
    I think about Cyrillic text in a variety of languages, and I consider what changes
    I would make to those designs if I were to completely ignore their Latin counterparts.
    And, really, I don&#39;t see anything. <BR> <BR>You accuse me of using history
    as a crutch, but you seem to have, typically, completely ignored what I&#39;ve
    actually written about design processes, the nature of the cognates, their relationship
    to proportions in both scripts, etc.. History isn&#39;t anybody&#39;s crutch:
    history is the explanation of where we are. In the case of the Greek script history
    explains <i>why</i> attempts to conform the Greek lowercase to the Latin always
    look artificial and awkward. I don&#39;t rely on history to determine <i>how</i>
    I see: I use history to understand <i>what</i> I see.'
  created: '2003-11-06 20:37:42'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: <i>Specifically, I&#39;m eager to learn if there are reasons I&#39;m unaware
    of for making the Cyrillic Veh identical to the Latin &#34;B&#34; for example.</i>
    <BR> <BR>Yes. It&#39;s the same friggin&#39; letter! and so is the Greek uppercase
    Beta. The only reason to differentiate them is if you are designing <i>in different
    styles</i>. Yes, a <i>poluustav</i> Veh, an Irish uncial B, and an Attic inscriptional
    Beta all look different <i>because they are in different styles.</i> If Veh, B
    and Beta are in the same style, they are the same form.
  created: '2003-11-06 20:45:58'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: Glad to hear you&#39;re listening. So am I. And I&#39;d like to know the answer
    to my question. <BR> <BR>As for your explanation of the &#34;design process&#34;,
    I think I&#39;d need you to elaborate to be sure &#40;and I&#39;d enjoy it to
    boot&#41;, but in toto it seems to me that you place too much value on precedent,
    on producing fonts the establishment will reward best. I know this is the sort
    of thing some people &#40;like Maxim&#41; class highest, and certainly such a
    stance is important to keep the machine well-oiled. But I expect more exploration,
    even more verbalized doubt, especially from somebody with experience. The more
    we learn the more we realize there&#39;s more to learn. Imagination is more important
    then knowledge. And all that.  :-&#41; <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>
  created: '2003-11-06 20:46:34'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '{Our messages crossed.} <BR> <BR>&#62; It&#39;s the same friggin&#39; letter!
    <BR> <BR>To whom? Not for your average reader, not at all! For most people one
    is a Russian &#40;or Serbian, or Hungarian&#41; letter, the other is English &#40;or
    French, or Dutch&#41;. Their similarity is essentially circumstancial to them.
    You&#39;re talking about evolutionary lineage, but who besides us cares -or should
    care- about that? When people simply don&#39;t know the history, how much does
    it matter? Type design isn&#39;t about teaching history, it&#39;s about helping
    to communicate somebody else&#39;s message. <BR> <BR>&#62; The only reason to
    differentiate them is if you are designing in different styles. <BR> <BR>I cited
    two reasons to differentiate them above, and I&#39;ll add a third: <BR>To increase
    readability by reducing confusion when the two scripts are intermixed. <BR>Here&#39;s
    my &#40;now-tired&#41; example: <a href="http://www.themicrofoundry.com/image/s_rome3-1.gif"
    target="_blank">http://www.themicrofoundry.com/image/s_rome3-1.gif</a> <BR>In
    the part below, Meta&#39;s Cyrillic &#40;the &#34;normal&#34; way&#41; is simply
    too homogenous with the Latin. <BR> <BR>And why wouldn&#39;t your logic apply
    to Greek or Hebrew - because of precedent? Too limiting. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-11-06 21:01:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>Imagination is more important then knowledge. </i> <BR> <BR>Ah, we have
    a fundamental disagreement. That&#39;s good to know. <BR> <BR>I don&#39;t know
    what I can usefully add to what I have already written: I design for the Latin
    and Cyrillic scripts as if they were a single script if both are in the same style.
    I believe there are sensible, historically-informed reasons to do this and, more
    importantly, I have found that the results work: it is possible to establish proportions,
    weights and spacing for both scripts around a shared set of cognates. <BR> <BR>The
    same sensible, historically-informed reasoning also tells me that some possible
    cognates between different scripts appropriately take different forms <i>within
    particular styles.</i> For example, the Ypsilon in Veljovic&#39;s Sava is a form
    that is appropriate to the Greek uncial style, but it is not appropriate to his
    Latin design, in which it would appear too mannered. I don&#39;t know why you&#39;re
    so excited about the Yu in that typeface: the uppercase form of this letter is
    never the same as either the Latin Y or the Greek Ypsilon, so the fact that Veljovic
    uses this form is not innovative or groundbreaking: its just the appropriate form
    of Yu for the Serbian monastic uncial style. If there is something notable about
    Sava, it is not that it differentiates Cyrillic letters from Latin cognates &#40;it
    doesn&#39;t: A B E M H O C T X are all the same glyphs in both scripts; only P
    is differentiated, as appropriate to the style, but interestingly Veljovic has
    unified the Latin K and Cyrillic Ka, so he is actually unifying letters that are
    normally distinguished, again, as appropriate to the style&#41;, but that it belongs
    to a specifically Serbian tradition.'
  created: '2003-11-06 21:10:23'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: '<i>In the part below, Meta&#39;s Cyrillic &#40;the &#34;normal&#34; way&#41;
    is simply too homogenous with the Latin. </i> <BR> <BR>To you? I look at it and
    can instantly see where one script ends and another begins. In order to have confusion,
    you would need to introduce Latin-script words into Cyrillic text that use only
    cognate forms, but that&#39;s what italics are for: to distinguish foreign words
    in text. <BR> <BR><i>And why wouldn&#39;t your logic apply to Greek or Hebrew
    - because of precedent? Too limiting. </i> <BR> <BR>No, not because of precedence.
    I really don&#39;t care much about precedence, per se, I care about where scripts
    come from and how the normative forms of the letters were established. So I don&#39;t
    treat Greek &#40;lowercase&#41; and Hebrew in the same way as I treat Latin and
    Cyrillic because they are different scripts without a shared history. Latin and
    Cyrillic have a shared history: if they didn&#39;t I certainly wouldn&#39;t take
    the approach to them that I do, because it wouldn&#39;t be appropriate or authentic.
    But because of that shared history it is both appropriate and authentic. Yes,
    that shared history is pretty short in the grand scheme of things, but it is the
    specific history that has produced the modern scripts that readers use. I&#39;ve
    never once said that the readers know or need to know this history: the history
    is for the designer to understand where the reader is at, where the script is
    at and, yes, also where the script can go. I&#39;ve said many times that I&#39;m
    a jobbing type designer -- I&#39;m not an artist trying to create something &#39;original&#39;,
    and I&#39;m not a reformer trying to give people something innovative that I think
    will be good for them -- I make type that people can use and read now, that also
    fits into the cultural framework that they inhabit. For most Cyrillic readers,
    that cultural framework is decidedly post-Petrine for everything except religion
    and nostalgia. <BR> <BR>That&#39;s all for now. Some of us have typefaces to design.'
  created: '2003-11-06 21:25:29'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: '&#62; the uppercase form of this letter is never the <BR>&#62; same as either
    the Latin Y or the Greek Ypsilon <BR> <BR>You can&#39;t say never. <BR>But I guess
    we&#39;re lucky van Krimpen never made a Cyrillic... <BR> <BR>&#62; its just the
    appropriate form of Yu for the Serbian monastic uncial style. <BR> <BR>Which is
    a distinction totally lost on the layman! So what most people see is a Yu that
    deviates from the Latin; and if it&#39;s less Latin, it essentially becomes more
    Cyrillic. <BR> <BR>&#62; it belongs to a specifically Serbian tradition. <BR>
    <BR>But you don&#39;t think that would prevent its use by non-Serbs, do you? And
    that&#39;s how culture migrates, in this case hopefully making Cyrillic less Latin,
    albeit in a small way. <BR> <BR>But yeah, the Ka sucks. <BR> <BR>&#62; I look
    at it and can instantly see where one script ends and another begins. <BR> <BR>I
    think if you were immersed you&#39;d stumble. <BR> <BR>As for using italics: <BR>1&#41;
    That&#39;s limiting. It&#39;s better if the two scripts were different outright
    &#40;for text&#41;. <BR>2&#41; What if the main text is in italic?  :-/ <BR> <BR>&#62;
    they are different scripts without a shared history <BR> <BR>None of this history
    directly affects reading! Some of it certainly does affect reading indirectly,
    but my point is simply that gently deviating cognates, giving the two scripts
    slightly different vertical proportions, etc. flies under their conscious sensibilties,
    but makes for greater functionality. <BR> <BR>BTW, doesn&#39;t Daniels &#40;The
    Expert&#41; say that there really is only one alphabet? &#40;Via the Qalam list.&#41;
    <BR> <BR>-- <BR> <BR>John, I respect that you&#39;re so good at making fonts valuable
    to many people. <BR>But please don&#39;t stop there. <BR> <BR>hhp <BR>'
  created: '2003-11-06 21:39:12'
date: '2003-11-06 05:52:05'
title: Victor Victorius

---
