---
author:
  name: arina s.
  picture: 111556
body: "Between the two world wars the typography of the Romanian newspapers followed
  the general development and the use of serif typefaces for the body type. The concern
  for the typography of the newspaper was rather conservatory and worked a lot with
  the same kind of typography used for the fiction literature.\r\n\r\nAfter the communist
  take over the typography of the newspapers followed the standards imposed by the
  propagandistic concerns, which followed the rule to use only sans serif s for the
  body type.\r\n\r\nThe serif typefaces of the newspapers were gathered and melted
  down as a demonstrative act of rupture with the bourgeois words and an entrance
  in to a new era of revolutionary thinking.\r\n\r\nCan anyone share similar experience
  or even thaughts about this topic?\r\n\r\nI'am preparing to start my PhD studies
  in compared typography with the following topic: Is legibility a matter of habit
  or of typeface design? Depends legibility of a text on reading habits and how much
  is the typeface design shaping our cognition process/experience of the content of
  a text.\r\n\r\nCan anyone refere to previous research in this area? Greatfull for
  thaughts, ideas and litterature or web references.\r\n\r\nFeel free to mail me directly
  to arina.stoenescu@sh.se.\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "hello arina,\r\n\r\nfirst of all, after what communist take over where were
    the newspapers set in sans body type? And where was serif metal type being melted
    down, in what scale? I for one have never heard of that\u2026\r\nI having spent
    parts of my childhood and youth in former Eastern Germany, cannot remember a newspaper
    of that time with it's body being set in sans, i also have held a few issues of
    Pravda in my hands, and these were set in serif cyrillic completely\u2026\r\n\r\ni
    think that \"the communists\" - if you refer to the soviet union that is \u2013
    were busy enough getting people in the vast rural regions of the soviet union
    to read at all, i.e. fight illiteracy, than being concerned with sans/serif issues.\r\nEven
    more, under Stalins reign there was a clear tendency against modernism (as in
    the Russian Avantgarde of the 20s) towards neo-classical, almost reactionary forms
    in design, architecture, etc. As is perfectly examplified by the history of the
    Palace of the Soviets in Moscow. Under Stalins leadership a bombastic neoclassicism
    was established, especially in architecture. Most of the comminist leaders in
    the last century showed a scaringly bourgeois taste with a bit of megalomania
    thrown in\u2026\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: arina s.
      picture: 111556
    body: "hello franz,\r\n\r\nI'am refering to the communist takeover in romania
      in 1943. \r\nthe newspapers i'am thinking about was the two major daily newespaper
      in Romania durin the communist era, Romania Libera and Informatia. I grew up
      in communist Romania (left the country 1987) and all my experience of newspapers,
      including childrenmagazine Cutezatorii was that those publications were using
      sansserifs.\r\n\r\neven Ceausescu the latest and the last communist leader of
      the country developed a clear tendency towards neo-classical style in architecture,
      a most eclectic one, but still in the propaganda publications and esspecialy
      in newspapers the typography of body type was sans serif.\r\n\r\n\u201DAnd where
      was serif metal type being melted down, in what scale? I for one have never
      heard of that\u2026\u201D\r\nI know that from a bookbinder working at a print
      house in Bucharest but I have to admit that I need to make a survey in order
      to find out in what scale metal type was melted down.\r\n\r\nSo nothing like
      this occured in East Germany, how about the typography of propaganda signes
      and posters?\r\n"
    created: '2006-04-29 16:59:42'
  created: '2006-04-29 16:11:45'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Is legibility a matter of habit or of typeface design? Depends legibility
    of a text on reading habits and how much is the typeface design shaping our cognition
    process/experience of the content of a text.\r\n\r\nIf you search on the word
    'bouma' or 'readability' you will get many, many discussions of the questions
    you ask, including the current thread: \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/14373\r\n"
  children:
  - author:
      name: arina s.
      picture: 111556
    body: "William\r\nThe recommended thread is very interesting but I don't understand
      the word \u2018bouma\u2019.\r\nSorry for my poor english.\r\n\r\n>If you search
      on the word \u2018bouma\u2019 or \u2018readability\u2019 you will get many,
      many discussions of the questions you ask, including the current thread:\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/14373\r\n\r\n"
    created: '2006-04-29 17:53:45'
  created: '2006-04-29 16:20:58'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Arina,\r\nI saw your post on AtypI andwas going to suggest that you post
    here as well but I see you have done it :-)\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: arina s.
      picture: 111556
    body: "yes, thanks to the discussion on AtypI I discovered this very useful typography
      forum.\r\ncommunication at work.\r\n!a\r\n"
    created: '2006-04-29 17:09:42'
  created: '2006-04-29 17:03:51'
- author:
    name: franzheidl
  body: "arina,\r\nplease accept my apologies, after reading your post again i realized
    that you are referring to Romania, i missed this when reading it first, sorry
    about that. Nonetheless i have never heard that Romania was apparently going any
    seperate way regarding the introduction of sans to newspapers. Have you got any
    material to show? Would be interesting as i can imagine a newspaper from post
    war europe all set in sans would have looked very avantgarde and ahead of it's
    time."
  children:
  - author:
      name: arina s.
      picture: 111556
    body: "fortunately i have some samples of sans serif newsapers, one issue from
      the children/pioneer magazine Cutezatorii (The Braves) from 1982 and one issue
      from Romania Libera (The Free Romania) from the beginning of 1990's, short after
      the Revolution and before they change the design to the actual one.\r\n\r\nthough,
      I have to scan it and I will do that as soon as I get back to work where I have
      the samples.\r\n\r\nmy reflections are:\r\n1.) since one grow up in a sans serif
      dominated typographical environment is the habbit of reading sans serif influence
      the perception of legibility of a text/type\r\n\r\n2.) are we prefering serif
      type in print because of the old tradition of reading printed matters with serifs\r\n\r\n3.)
      has the habit (i.e. the habit of redaing sans serif in print and sans serif
      on screen) a greater, stronger influence upon what we experience as good typography,
      apropriated to the content or to the media\r\n\r\nthe phenomena of using sansserif
      in romanian newspappers and my own experience of a typografical environment
      where the lettersahpe prevailled was the starting point in trying to find out
      what kind of read behaviour the screen typography will develop in time.\r\n\r\nI'am
      aware that I need more structure in those thaughts and I welcome any comments
      on that."
    created: '2006-04-29 17:50:33'
  created: '2006-04-29 17:10:13'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "'Bouma' is a word invented by reading researchers, named after the researcher
    with that last name. It means the 'word seen as a whole' rather than by identification
    of individual letters, followed by assembly into words. \r\n\r\nWhat is the precise
    meaning of 'Bouma' seems to vary with the person using the word. Hrant Papazian
    and Peter Enneson, as well as research psychologist Kevin Larson have essays on
    this in <a href=\"http://www.magtypo.cz/buxus/generate_page.php?page_id=101\">TYPO</a>
    Magazine, 13th issue. \r\n\r\nThey have also posted extensively on this. If you
    click on Peter's name here--he posts mainly on this issue--and use the 'tracker'
    you will get a lot of his posts.   "
  created: '2006-04-29 18:27:26'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>\u2018Bouma\u2019 is a word invented by reading researchers, named after
    the researcher with that last name. It means the \u2018word seen as a whole\u2019
    rather than by identification of individual letters, followed by assembly into
    words.</em>\r\n\r\nThat is a little misleading. The actual term employed by some
    by cognitive pyschologists is 'bouma shape'. But your description gives the impression
    that these psychologists, and perhaps Bouma himself, believe word recognition
    to be centered on recognition of such shapes, 'rather than by identification of
    individual letters', and this is not the case. Rightly or wrongly, the majority
    of cognitive psychologists seem to embrace the parallel letter recognition model."
  created: '2006-04-29 19:00:56'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: Gerard Unger told the tale (in his presentation at ATypI Vancouver) of a Dutch
    newspaper that set everything in Helvetica -- a decision of the publisher, not
    the government.
  created: '2006-04-29 19:03:52'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Arina, the Nazi ideological shift from blackletter to roman (antiqua) types
    during the Second World War may be the closest parallel to the Romanian ideological
    shift from serif to sans serif, although type was more likely to have been melted
    down to make bullets than for purely ideological reasons.\r\n\r\nIn communist
    North Korea, the use of traditional Chinese characters alongside Korean hangul
    script has been officially discouraged, with the result that most North Koreans
    cannot read publications from South Korea, where both scripts continue to be used
    in tandem. The reasons for this are ideological and nationalist, and also practical
    because it makes it easier to control what people read. Most of the North Korean
    publications I have seen are set in gothic ('sans serif', low contrast, geometric)
    hangul types, but I don't know if this is ideologically encouraged or simply an
    aesthetic preference."
  created: '2006-04-29 19:09:06'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">That is a little misleading.\r\n\r\nI didn't mean to prejudge the issue.
    Some of the older researchers in reading, as I understand from Peter Enneson,
    did believe that \"bouma shape\" is important to word recognition. Now, as you
    say, the parallel letter view is generally accepted. Peter argues that this acceptance
    is a result of the 'bouma shape' view not being sufficiently developed. I think
    the issue is undecided, if Peter's richer view of 'bouma shape' is   understood
    here. I used to lean toward the parallel processing view. Now I think that it
    is likely that some direct recognition of whole patterns is going on, as Peter
    has argued. This is not least because of our astounding ability to recognize human
    faces. Type faces aren't called that for nothing!    "
  created: '2006-04-29 19:17:18'
- author:
    name: dstype
    picture: 111104
  body: "I must say that we can't mistook legibility with readability. These are to
    separate things.\r\nAnyway, I truly believe that legibility it's a matter of habit,
    and the habit is directly dependent certain contemporary approaches.\r\nI don't
    know if they melt down the old lead types, but the idea of renouncing to certain
    kinds of typefaces is quit ancient.\r\nTake a look at the book \"The alphabetic
    labyrinth\" by Johanna Drucker, edited by Thames and Hudson, and you'll see that
    the catholic church renounced to the\r\nroman capitals because they represented
    the roman oppression, and just when the emperor Constantin declared the conversion
    of Rome\r\nto the catholicism, the roman capitals were then accepted by the church
    (mixed with the uncials and half uncials that were developed since).\r\nThis is
    a common issue. In the bauhaus happened almost the same. \r\n\r\nThis is an interesting
    matter for a PhD. I developed a few concepts in my master graduation, and if you're
    interested we can discuss a little more\r\non this issue."
  children:
  - author:
      name: arina s.
      picture: 111556
    body: "The Nazi ideological shift occured to me as I was thinking of similar ideological
      influences on visual communication, but I was not aware about what Dino Santos
      mentioned that the catholic church renounced to the roman capitals. What happened
      at bauhaus has though not to do with political ideology, rather with the schools
      esthetic principles...\r\n\r\nThe North Corean phenomena is also remarcable,
      would be really interesting to find out whether the choice of sans serifs had
      to do with a revolutionary perception of the shapes or not.\r\n\r\n<cite>...interesting
      matter for a PhD. I developed a few concepts in my master graduation, and if
      you\u2019re interested we can discuss a little more on this issue.</cite>\r\n\r\nDino,
      please feel free to mail me directly your concepts from your master graduation.\r\n\r\n<cite>...I
      truly believe that legibility it\u2019s a matter of habit, and the habit is
      directly dependent certain contemporary approaches.</cite>\r\n\r\nI wrilly agree
      and hope that the intense and increasing use of screen typography in the last
      ten years can guide us in to some new understanding in the use of typography
      in different media.\r\n\r\nBut then more than five hundred years of printed
      typography seems difficult to compare to very young field of screen typography.\r\n"
    created: '2006-04-30 06:31:48'
  created: '2006-04-29 22:52:05'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>I must say that we can\u2019t mistook legibility with readability. These
    are to separate things.</em>\r\n\r\nThis is a common assumption among typographers,
    reflected in our use of terminology, but it may be begging the question. If the
    parallel letter recognition model is accurate, then there is little distinction
    between legibility and readability, at least at the level of type design. At the
    last Thessaloniki conference, I asked Kevin Larson and Mary Dyson how they, as
    psychologists, used the terminology. Kevin said he made no distinction between
    legibility and readability, although tended to use the former term, and Mary said
    she thought of readability as a document design and language issue, not a type
    design issue.\r\n\r\nAlthough we often claim there is an important difference
    between legibility and readability, the consequence of this is simply that typographers
    have largely stopped using the term legibility. We only talk about readability,
    because we think that legibility refers to something that isn't very important."
  created: '2006-05-02 18:23:49'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: "In 'Types of Typefaces' Ben Lieberman defined:\r\n\r\n\"'Legibility' is based
    on the ease with which one letter can be told from the other. 'Readability' is
    the ease with which the eye can absorb the message and move along the line.\"\r\n\r\nIf
    we take these definitions, which I think pretty well capture the distinction as
    used by typographers for quite a while, then I have no doubt there is a difference
    between the two. Partly it is, as you say Mary Dyson said, a matter of document
    design. If one uses excessive measure, small type, and zero leading, it is easy
    to produce a pretty unreadable but quite legible document, by the above definitions.
    \r\n\r\nI also think, though, that it is a matter of type design, and not only
    of how type is used. Most people find high contrast faces such as Bodoni at small
    sizes hard to read, even though they are perfectly legible. Similarly, italics,
    which are just as legible as roman are I believe even tested to read more slowly.
    Also all the 'optical size' adjustments on the Adobe fonts have this function
    of enhancing readability. The larger optical sizes are perfectly legible at small
    sizes, they are just not as readable. \r\n\r\nCurrent widespread practice in type
    design will tell you that legibility is a requirement for readability, but it
    is not sufficient. If reading science hasn't yet caught up with the advantages
    of the well estabished practice of optical sizing, for example, then it needs
    to work on it. Because they are not working on it doesn't mean that it doesn't
    exist. \r\n\r\nThe distinction is not question begging because it reflects people's
    experience across a huge range of people and cultures. The distinction between
    display and text type, the greater readability of  roman over italic, the hundreds
    of years practice of optical sizing, all these are facts. The task of science
    is to explain observations, not dismiss them. "
  created: '2006-05-02 20:03:13'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "\"Some of the older researchers in reading, as I understand from Peter Enneson,
    did believe that \u201Cbouma shape\u201D is important to word recognition. Now,
    as you say, the parallel letter view is generally accepted. Peter argues that
    this acceptance is a result of the \u2018bouma shape\u2019 view not being sufficiently
    developed.\"\r\n\r\nThe first appearance of the term 'bouma shape' in the psychological
    literature on reading is in 1983 and is to be attributed to Insup Taylor and M.
    Martin Taylor. Insup Taylor was part of the Division of Life Sciences at the University
    of Toronto, and M. Martin Taylor was at the Defense and Civil Institute of Environmental
    Medicine in Downsview, Ontario, just outside Toronto. \r\n\r\nEarly researchers
    in reading identified 'whole words,' 'word forms,' 'total word forms,' or 'word
    configurations' as being the 'units of perception' in reading. \r\n\r\nIn testing
    this 'holistic' approach researchers relied on a concept of 'word shape' that
    defined word shape as 'outer contour'or 'envelope structure.' Another definition
    defined word shape as the raw pattern of neutral, ascending and descending characters.
    In these formalizations 'dog,' 'beg,' and 'leg' have identical word shapes.\r\n\r\nWhen
    'word form,' 'total word form,' or 'configuration' are formalized in this way
    as a basis for empirical testing, it becomes clear that, as one researcher put
    it: \"word shape is not in good shape for the race to the lexicon.\" \r\n\r\nI
    tried to argue that the rejection of the 'holistic' approach, and the concomitant
    ascendence of the view that letters are the 'unit of preception' in reading, was
    premature because it based empirical testing on a poor formalization of 'word
    shape,' and that Insup and M. Martin Taylor's use of Herman Bouma's letter-confusion
    data to define something they called a word's 'bouma shape' might provide the
    basis for a richer notion of 'word shape.'\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/][img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-02 20:20:36'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>Similarly, italics, which are just as legible as roman are I believe
    even tested to read more slowly.</em>\r\n\r\nSpeaking of ideology, scientists
    and engineers have theirs, which tends to be skewed by who's paying the bills.
    \r\nThe reading research being done at Microsoft is in the service of ergonomic
    engineering, so it's hardly surprising that one of the axioms is : fast = good."
  created: '2006-05-02 20:28:52'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">fast = good\r\n\r\nCertainly reading speed is one valid measure of readability.
    Another would be comprehension in a given time. Another would be fatigue--meaning
    not only eye strain, but also just feeling tired of reading. I think there is
    a 'brain weariness' as well as an 'eye weariness'. \r\n\r\nBy comparison, legibility
    tests would be eg. how quickly a letter is identified, and how easily it is confused
    with another letter. Because legibility and readabily would be tested in different
    ways, they are certainly different conceptually. To what extent legibility contributes
    to readibility or even subsumes it is a matter for testing. To assume that they
    are identical, given the clear difference conceptually and operationally, would
    indeed be question begging--not the idea that they are different.  "
  created: '2006-05-02 21:40:21'
- author:
    name: enne_son
    picture: 109487
  body: "I tend to think of legibility as a simple matter of discrimination affordance.
    Are the letters designed in such a way that we can readily make out their identities,
    or the identities of the words they make up? Are the letters designed in such
    a way that we can readily tell them apart? Mostly discussions about legibility
    have to do with thresholds. A highly legible type affords disrimination at larger
    distances, smaller sizes, lower contrasts, compromised illumination, against higher
    levels of background noise, with greater blur.\r\n\r\nIn discussions about whether
    the letters in a font combine well to promote rapid automatic visual wordform
    resolution, efficient saccade planning, a pleasant, perceptually effortless reading
    experience exacting low attentional resources, I tend to use readability. What
    we are used to plays a role, but there are also 'harder' determinants like spacing
    and formal familiality or fit which play a role.\r\n\r\nHowever the epistemological
    status of concepts like legibility and readibility is such that the matters they
    evoke resist formalization and quantification.[img:sites/default/files/old-images/]"
  created: '2006-05-02 22:47:52'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "<em>resist formalization and quantification.</em>\r\n\r\nWords to live by."
  created: '2006-05-02 23:01:31'
- author:
    name: William Berkson
    picture: 110306
  body: ">Words to live by.\r\n\r\nNot if you are a reading scientist. Then I think
    trying to capture readability formally, and test quantitatively what makes for
    it are important challenges. Of course they will 'resist'--progress in science
    is not easy--but human ingenuity will eventually meet the challenge, I'm sure.
    (I am not talking of the aesthetics here, but of speed and comfort in reading.) "
  created: '2006-05-02 23:16:32'
- author:
    name: Nick Shinn
    picture: 110193
  body: "[img:sites/default/files/old-images/JoeandJoe_6496.jpg]\r\nFrom \"Designing
    for People\" by Henry Dreyfuss, 1955.\r\nThis approach originated with making
    a better tank for G.I. Joe."
  created: '2006-05-03 05:53:38'
- author:
    name: arina s.
    picture: 111556
  body: "Thank you for share your insights in <cite>legibility</cite> and <cite>readability</cite>.
    \r\n\r\nI hope that I can get back with a compilation of the discussion and include
    some of the posed questions in a larger framework dealing with this topic.\r\n\r\nI've
    got over two interesting titels about legibility and typography:\r\n<cite>A Psychological
    study of Typography</cite> by Sir Cyril Burt with an introduction by Stanley Morison
    and <cite>Legibility of Printed Text</cite> by Bror Zachrisson.\r\n\r\nHas anyone
    suggestions about litterature dealing with legibility on screen text?\r\n\r\nI
    love this statement William: <cite>The task of science is to explain observations,
    not dismiss them.</cite>\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 23:30:32'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Arina,\r\nI thought you might find the following article appropriate to your
    thesis: \"Our Changing Visual Environment\" by Maureen MacKenzie-Taylor\r\n\r\nHere
    is a long quote to whet your appetite:\r\n\r\n\"...Our research is showing that
    people read and understand best what they are most used to (MacKenzie, 1992:54-56).\r\n\r\n\"In
    contrast, the earlier legibility studies suggested that legibility was somehow
    biologically determined. It was inferred that because of the way our eyes are
    constructed, and the ways in which people read with jumping eye movements, that
    serifed text is easier to read because those little finishing strokes to letters
    aid the eye\u2019s progression from letter to letter, and improve reader\u2019s
    differentiation of word shapes.\r\n\r\n\"In contrast to this earlier research,
    our recent testing of documents shows that in the 1990s there is no difference
    per se in ease and speed of reading and consequent understanding between serif
    and sanserif letterforms. What our results suggest is that legibility is culturally
    learned and sub-culturally developed.\"\r\n\r\n______\r\nThe whole article is
    available at:\r\n\r\nhttp://communication.org.au/cria_publications/publication_id_21_584238809.html\r\n\r\nHope
    this helps.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  children:
  - author:
      name: arina s.
      picture: 111556
    body: "<cite>\u2026legibility is culturally learned and sub-culturally developed.</cite>
      (MacKenzie, 1998)\r\n\r\nThanks Chris, that is my point too in the other track
      about the Romanian newspapers using sans serifs...\r\n\r\n\u2026and the hypothesis
      about (communist) ideology trying to use typography to communicate to the masses
      in a certain way remains to be demonstrate.\r\n\r\n\u2026and the epistemological
      aspect of legibility and readability remained also to be clarified.\r\n\r\nLot
      of work to do!"
    created: '2006-05-08 01:07:00'
  created: '2006-05-08 00:39:35'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Arina,\r\n\r\nGood luck to you on this! We would love to see a copy of your
    final paper. Perhaps you might post a pdf at some point when you are all finished?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-08 01:49:30'
date: '2006-04-29 15:00:28'
title: Ideology and typography

---
