---
author:
  name: noftus
  picture: 111246
body: "Interesting list of links to fonts, suitable for programmers:\r\n\r\nhttp://keithdevens.com/wiki/ProgrammerFonts\r\n"
comments:
- author:
    name: Alessandro Segalini
    picture: 111041
  body: http://typographi.com/000744.php
  created: '2006-05-02 14:06:36'
- author:
    name: Tim Stadelmann
  body: "It's fascinating how many of them are bitmapped.  I've often noticed, and
    never fully understood, that a large number of programmers prefer pixel fonts.
    \ Is this a kind of, possibly subconscious, nostalgia?\r\n\r\nI'm generally quite
    old-fashioned, but I've always felt that decent (not even good!) quality antialiasing
    combined with a reasonable screen resolution have made programming enormously
    more pleasant."
  created: '2006-05-02 14:54:42'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019ve often noticed, and never fully understood, that a large number
    of programmers prefer pixel fonts. Is this a kind of, possibly subconscious, nostalgia?\r\n\r\nWhen
    ClearType was invented and tested on people at Microsoft the biggest initial critics
    were some of the programmers (AKA developers) - initially the phenomenon of people
    not liking ClearType was dubbed the \"developer effect\" - however over time attitudes
    have changed. The ClearType team conducted research that demonstrated that more
    bugs could be identified in code samples displayed in Consolas under CT than could
    with a sample displayed in Courier New under bi-level aliased rendering.    "
  created: '2006-05-02 15:44:42'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "\"Black and white, single-bit bitmaps still out perform all other screen
    rendering technologies for small text in readability studies, even ClearType.\"\r\n\r\nThe
    above quote is from John Hudson in this thread.\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/18685?from=50&comments_per_page=50\r\n\r\nI
    think programmers prefer pixel fonts because they have higher contrast, and are
    therefore more legible at small sizes. They aren't as pretty however. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-02 23:48:21'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "Not to contradict John as I'm sure he knows much more about this particular
    study than I do, but it wasn't a readability study, it was a bug spotting study.
    \ \r\n\r\nI think you're likely right about the preference for high-contrast and
    non-pretty fonts - perhaps that's why so few programmers use Mac OSX* ;-) \r\n\r\nCheers,
    Si \r\n\r\n\r\n*Braced for inevitable flame war. "
  created: '2006-05-03 00:27:16'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>Not to contradict John as I\u2019m sure he knows much more about this
    particular study than I do, but it wasn\u2019t a readability study, it was a bug
    spotting study.</em>\r\n\r\nYes, I wasn't referring to the code bug spotting test,
    but to general reading accuracy test results comparing b/w, greyscale and ClearType
    rendering, as presented by Kevin Larson at the ATypI conference in Vancouver (2003).
    Greyscale performed most poorly, while ClearType came in a close second behind
    the b/w rendering. I'm not sure what text sizes and resolutions were involved
    in the test, though, and I suspect as resolutions increase the gap between ClearType
    and b/w will narrow and eventually invert. I believe the key is in the consistency
    of stroke colour, which obviously is completely consistent in a well-formed b/w
    pixel pattern, less consistent in ClearType at today's typical resolution, and
    very much less consistent in greyscale antialiasing."
  created: '2006-05-03 00:43:08'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> that\u2019s why so few programmers use Mac OSX\r\n\r\nThey simply don't
    know what they're missing. Like them, I didn't really know one could program with
    a Mac, until I got one. The truth is, one can do anything with a Mac, even run
    Windows :^P"
  created: '2006-05-03 02:38:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "It was a joke, but it would be interesting to contrast the fonts used by
    programmers on the Mac and those using Windows or Linux. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  children:
  - author:
      name: Tim Stadelmann
    body: "Well, I may be atypical because the main reason I got a Mac is that I needed
      a UNIX that could reliably do power management and suspend on a laptop... but
      I tend to use the same font as under Linux and occasionally Windows, Bitstream
      Vera Sans Mono. Before that it was Andale Mono. I'm giving Consolas a try now,
      it looks very promising - thanks for the pointer!\r\n\r\nI've no idea what they
      were thinking with Monaco, that typeface is just terrible.  Its almost unreadable
      at small sizes, and looks Comic-Sansish silly in large sizes. But at least they
      do allow you to turn on antialiasing in Terminal, it's a check box in the display
      settings tab.\r\n\r\nOn the readability of pixel fonts, my personal observation
      is that fonts that normally use lines only one pixel wide (as is often seen
      in old GUIs and windowing IDEs) are very difficult to read, while bolder fonts
      that have two pixel strokes (as used to be the norm on text-only CRT terminals,
      and the VGA DOS console) are much better.  It might be worthwhile to check whether
      that can be generalized, and if so, it should be taken into account in studies.
      \ "
    created: '2006-05-03 10:11:32'
  created: '2006-05-03 06:10:02'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "By default XCode uses Monaco for code, and LucidaGrande for everything else.
    At defaults, it looks like Monaco isn't subject to text smoothing, even though
    its size is above my 8 pt threshold. \r\n\r\nIn Terminal.app, font smoothing is
    actually disabled. You can change the font and size, but most proportionally spaced
    fonts look very strange if you try it. The terminal coerces them to become monospaced.
    \r\n\r\nI would love to see a good comparison of Monaco to Luc de Groot's new
    Consolas, which is sort of the state-of-the art for monospaced fonts. We could
    decide which font squishes its \"m\" better. I suspect Consolas will be much smoother.
    \   \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-03 07:42:17'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Greyscale performed most poorly, while ClearType came in a close second
    behind the b/w rendering. I\u2019m not sure what text sizes and resolutions were
    involved in the test, though, and I suspect as resolutions increase the gap between
    ClearType and b/w will narrow and eventually invert.\"\r\n\r\nWith all you don't
    know, how do you know, that it was even a \"test\" then?\r\n\r\nWhat res.? what
    size? What grey scale fonts? (that's the real puzzler...)"
  created: '2006-05-03 13:09:23'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">I\u2019ve no idea what they were thinking with Monaco, that typeface is
    just terrible. Its almost unreadable at small sizes, and looks Comic-Sansish silly
    in large sizes.\r\n\r\nHeresy! You'll be thrown out of the cult for criticizing
    part of the \"beautiful typography\" TM* ;-) \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n*http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_Typography
    \r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-03 14:42:55'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Sounds like a case of Terminal Typography, you read best what you read most
    :-)\r\n\r\nThe best part about Monaco is the Grand Prix :-/\r\n\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-03 15:05:17'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "\"I\u2019ve no idea what they were thinking with Monaco, that typeface is
    just terrible.\"\r\n\r\nAs Sii's link points out, Monaco is the monospaced \"city\"
    font from the original Mac. I'm sure they were thinking that they needed a legible
    monospaced font for a 512 x 342 pixel black and white CRT. The limitations of
    monospaced typography put the squeeze on wide letters and try to artifically stretch
    narrow letters. The \"a\" and \"i\" in Consolas are probably taking a safer route
    to legibility. \r\n "
  children:
  - author:
      name: Tim Stadelmann
    body: ">\u201CI\u2019ve no idea what they were thinking with Monaco, that typeface
      is just terrible.\u201D\r\n\r\nAh well, that was a bit flippant and I should
      have been more precise.\r\n\r\n>As Sii\u2019s link points out, Monaco is the
      monospaced \u201Ccity\u201D font from the original Mac. I\u2019m >sure they
      were thinking that they needed a legible monospaced font for a 512 x 342 pixel
      >black and white CRT.\r\n\r\nMost certainly. The city fonts were definitely
      a big step forward in screen typography back then, and I'm aware that the monospaced
      font was a particular challenge as they must have wanted to fit an entire text
      console in a window considerably smaller than the screen, which leaves you even
      fewer pixels to work with than on a text-only terminal. And they arrived at
      a solition which worked remarkably well given the constraints.  The outlines
      were then needed so that you could get a decent printout in true WYSIWYG spirit.\r\n\r\nThe
      real question is, what where they thinking when making this the default in OS
      X, when 512 x 342 had become somewhat uncommon? Probably that Mac developers
      are used to it..."
    created: '2006-05-03 21:48:06'
  created: '2006-05-03 16:14:26'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: 'Personally, I use bitmap fonts every day. I think my main uses are the Windows
    Command Prompt, my phone, and my music player. Does anyone know if there are 8-bit
    bitmap fonts? If so, phone makers could create fonts that had a cleartype look
    without the rasterizer. Fonts on my phone, at least at this point don''t need
    to scale. '
  created: '2006-05-03 16:23:37'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">If so, phone makers could create fonts that had a cleartype look without
    the rasterizer.  \r\n\r\nI'm surprised too but most phone and device fonts make
    me shudder - they could do so much better even witihn the constraints of b/w or
    grayscale if they wanted to. "
  created: '2006-05-03 16:57:57'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>If so, phone makers could create fonts that had a cleartype look without
    the rasterizer.</em>\r\n\r\nNot really. You would only be able to address the
    full pixel, not the subpixels, so the colour effects would be pretty noticeable."
  created: '2006-05-03 19:01:06'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "<em>What res.? what size? What grey scale fonts? (that\u2019s the real puzzler\u2026)</em>\r\n\r\nWord
    identification test (comparing CT, antialiased and aliased text):\r\nTFT-LCD display
    (1024 \xD7 768; XGA; 106 dpi) using its native resolution.\r\nNominal 10 pt Verdana
    (custom gasp table setting to permit antialiasing for test).\r\nI had misremembered
    the results: in this test, CT and aliased actually scored almost identically (c.
    64% accuracy for both roman and italics), with antialiased text scoring very badly
    in comparison (43% for roman, 28% for italic).\r\n\r\nGugerty, Tyrrell, Aten,
    & Edmonds, 'The Effects of Subpixel Addressing on Users\u2019 Performance and
    Preferences During Reading-Related Tasks', in <em>ACM Transactions on Applied
    Perceptions,</em> Vol. 1, No. 2, October 2004."
  created: '2006-05-03 19:21:29'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "The study John referenced is in this paper:\r\n\r\nGugerty, L., Tyrrell,
    R.A., Aten, T.R., & Edmonds, K.A. (2004). The effects of sub-pixel addressing
    on users\u2019 performance. ACM Transactions on Applied Perception, 1, 81-101.\r\n\r\nRes:
    106 dpi (OS set to 96 dpi)\r\nSize: 10 point\r\nFont: Verdana Roman and Verdana
    Italic\r\n\r\nClearType: compatible widths ClearType\r\nBlack & White: Hinted
    black & white as appears by default in WinXP\r\nGrayscale: Hinted grayscale as
    used by the WinXP OS (the font GASP table needs to be modified to display at that
    size)\r\n\r\nThis was a tachtistoscopic word naming study. They found no reliable
    differences between ClearType and black & white, but that users named grayscale
    words at a reliably less accurately.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-03 19:22:02'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"ClearType: compatible widths ClearType\"\r\n\r\n\"Black & White: Hinted
    black & white as appears by default in WinXP\"\r\n\r\n\"Grayscale: Hinted grayscale
    as used by the WinXP OS (the font GASP table needs to be modified to display at
    that size)\"\r\n\r\nThanks Kevin!\r\n\r\nIf: the font GASP table needed to be
    modified to display at that size, Then: the font most likely was not hinted to
    be used at that size...or did that problem not occur for some reason not stated?
    \ Also, do you know why they used 10 pt in this particular study while in all
    to others I've seen, they used larger sizes?\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-03 19:44:16'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>Not really. You would only be able to address the full pixel, not the
    subpixels, so the colour effects would be pretty noticeable.</cite>\r\n\r\nAren't
    subpixels being manipulated any time something other than black and white is being
    displayed? Isn't displaying a picture of ClearType the same as displaying ClearType
    if it's being displayed pixel-for-pixel?"
  created: '2006-05-03 19:49:27'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "10 point is the most commonly used size in the studies I've worked on. 12
    point is the next most common. Verdana is believed to look particularily good
    at 10 point.\r\n\r\nGrayscale used the hinting done for black & white such as
    grid-fitting. This has the effect of sharpening horizontal and verticle stems.
    Diagonals appear blurred and appear more three dimentional than than. This does
    not give the even appearance of traditional grayscale, but we think the extra
    sharpness benefits readers.\r\n\r\nCheers, Kevin"
  created: '2006-05-03 20:33:22'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">Not really. You would only be able to address the full pixel, not the subpixels,
    so the colour effects would be pretty noticeable.\r\n\r\nI have to disagree with
    this too - there's nothing preventing someone from rasterizing an exisitng font
    using the CT rasterizer and making a color bitmap font from the output - you'd
    loose any sub pixel positioning, you'd have to do it for both BGR and RGB, and
    adjusting the gamma would be tricky, but apart from that the results could replicate
    what you see in Windows XP exactly.  \r\n\r\nCheers, Si"
  created: '2006-05-03 20:59:20'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"Grayscale used the hinting done for black & white [such as grid-fitting.?]\"\r\n\r\nI
    don't understand why this was done. Do you know? I mean, it seems like: the CT
    was made as good as possible...the B&W was too...then, the GS used the B&W's hints,
    the CT's subpixel positioning? adjusted the gasp table, and...(Failure assurance
    in 1/3 of the presentation to the user seems like a high percentage for a good
    test.)\r\n\r\nIt seems, not only narrow to test this on; a, or a few sizes, a
    font or two, a few users \u2014 but narrow <em>and</em> slanted if you mismatch
    1/3 of the solutions. I feel that we can only truely solve this if we can grasp
    and harness the gasp, hints (and outlines only as a last resort), to satisfy the
    increadibly wide range of screens, renderizers, fonts (incl. other scripts), users
    and sizes!\r\n\r\nThis is a huge area for \"the user to be in control\" and I
    just don't get it, I guess, 'cause you're spendin' millions in tests to limit
    the possible solutions drastically."
  created: '2006-05-04 00:32:44'
- author:
    name: John Hudson
    picture: 110397
  body: "Carl: <em>Aren\u2019t subpixels being manipulated any time something other
    than black and white is being displayed? Isn\u2019t displaying a picture of ClearType
    the same as displaying ClearType if it\u2019s being displayed pixel-for-pixel?</em>\r\n\r\nSi:
    <em>I have to disagree with this too - there\u2019s nothing preventing someone
    from rasterizing an exisitng font using the CT rasterizer and making a color bitmap
    font from the output - you\u2019d loose any sub pixel positioning, you\u2019d
    have to do it for both BGR and RGB, and adjusting the gamma would be tricky, but
    apart from that the results could replicate what you see in Windows XP exactly.</em>\r\n\r\nSorry
    for the brain-fade moment and resulting confusion. I wasn't thinking in terms
    of rasterising a ClearType font and creating a colour bitmap font from the result.
    I took the original suggestion -- 'phone makers could create fonts that had a
    cleartype look without the rasterizer' -- to imply creating colour bitmap fonts
    from scratch using some form of bitmap editing tool. Yes, of course, one can address
    the subpixels by adjusting the RGB levels -- doh! --, but it would still be darned
    tricky to emulate CT rendering manually, which is what I was thinking about.\r\n\r\nIt's
    the sort of thing we could probably talk Hrant into doing, though. :)"
  created: '2006-05-04 01:17:50'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "David: \u201C\u2018cause you\u2019re spendin\u2019 millions in tests to limit
    the possible solutions drastically.\u201D\r\n\r\nSorry, I\u2019m still learning
    the cultural differences of working with typographers. I think the choices made
    in that study were all reasonable ones. We thought the grayscale solution we tested
    was the best one available. Reasonable people can certainly disagree with any
    of our choices in the study. Perhaps a different font, size, or type of grayscale
    would change these results. When a psychologist disagrees with how another psychologist\u2019s
    study was carried out, it is perfectly acceptable to rerun another's study with
    different parameters.\r\n\r\nI recommend getting a psychology student at one of
    your local universities excited about studying typography. Students frequently
    need good project ideas and can run studies at low costs. I\u2019m not interested
    in limiting possibilities, but can\u2019t investigate every possibility myself.
    I\u2019d be happy to have more people running studies on typographic possibilities.\r\n\r\nCheers,
    Kevin"
  created: '2006-05-04 03:08:00'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: ">It\u2019s the sort of thing we could probably talk Hrant into doing, though.
    :) \r\n\r\nThe very first CT experiments that I saw were done manually in Paint
    by Mike Duggan but once he'd demonstrated that the idea actually worked, things
    moved on to a modified version of the rasterizer within the space of a week or
    two. \r\n\r\nCheers, Si "
  created: '2006-05-04 03:37:52'
- author:
    name: Si_Daniels
    picture: 110446
  body: "As the original subject was programming fonts I should mention that Consolas
    is now available as a download for licensed Visual Studio users. \r\n\r\nhttp://typophile.com/node/19728
    \r\n\r\nCheers, Si\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-04 18:18:09'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "I've been using Lucida Console for programming for years now. I tried Consolas
    briefly but gave up on it. Of course, the problem of Consolas is that the way
    it renders without ClearType is a catastrophy. Consolas has some very handsome
    design features but it's still no match for Lucida Console. The only disadvantage
    of Lucida Console is that it doesn't have a Bold and an Italic. \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-05-04 20:11:14'
- author:
    name: canderson
    picture: 111096
  body: "<cite>the problem of Consolas is that the way it renders without ClearType
    is a catastrophy.</cite>\r\n\r\nI tried using it in Terminal.app, for fun. The
    above comment is accurate. Consolas kind of looks like de Groot rummaged around
    his workshop to find parts from different fonts he could combine. This is what
    pretty much has to happen for a monospaced font, and I like the results. Here's
    a rough comparison or some letters that are quite different than Monaco:\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/monacoandconsolas_6125.jpg]\r\n\r\nMonaco
    is the one with the ziggy 'i' and 'l'. "
  created: '2006-05-04 20:21:13'
- author:
    name: twardoch
    picture: 110427
  body: "Some people have observed that the Consolas font pack download (http://www.microsoft.com/downloads/details.aspx?familyid=22e69ae4-7e40-4807-8a86-b3d36fab68d3&displaylang=en
    ) is only available free of charge for licensed users of a Microsoft Visual Studio
    product. What is often overlooked though is that Microsoft now offers free Microsoft
    Visual Studio \"Express\" editions (http://msdn.microsoft.com/vstudio/express/
    ), which are also eligible for the Consolas installation. \r\n\r\nSo altogether,
    the good news is that it is possible to obtain Consolas (and a bunch of programming
    tools on top of it) completely free of charge. If you use Windows, of course.
    \r\n\r\nA."
  created: '2006-05-05 16:29:09'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "JH: \"with antialiased text scoring very badly in comparison (43% for roman,
    28% for italic)\"\r\n\r\n:) 43%, 43% preferred greyscale over CT ? That's bad?
    It translates into...around..150 million users.\r\n\r\nK:\"Sorry, I\u2019m still
    learning the cultural differences of working with typographers.\"\r\n\r\nI don't
    think it's \"typographer\" culture you need to be concerned with, It's the users.
    \r\n\r\n\"but can\u2019t investigate every possibility myself.\" I'm suggesting
    that you only make recommendations based on exactly what you've tested, and not
    allow your masters to spread false positive results over environments, fonts and
    users to which they don't apply, a.k.a the \"big lies\" previously mentioned.\r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-06 12:55:54'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "I should ask first sorry: Gugerty, Tyrrell, Aten, & Edmonds, \u2018The Effects
    of Subpixel Addressing on Users\u2019 Performance and Preferences During Reading-Related
    Tasks\u2019, in ACM Transactions on Applied Perceptions, Vol. 1, No. 2, October
    2004.\r\n\r\nVerdana, hintweaked for CT 57%, Verdana alias-hinted output in grey
    scale with the wrong kind of spacing for the hints - 43%...What's being tested
    here? Are they human users? "
  created: '2006-05-06 15:15:44'
- author:
    name: Kevin Larson
    picture: 109739
  body: "David \"43% preferred greyscale over CT ? That\u2019s bad? It translates
    into\u2026around..150 million users\"\r\n\r\nThis was a tachtistoscopic word naming
    study, not a preference study. The participants (adult human readers) accuracy
    at word naming was measured. Participant's ability to accurately name words was
    reliably poorer when the text was rendered in the grayscale text than when rendered
    with CT or b/w."
  created: '2006-05-08 19:16:52'
- author:
    name: dberlow
  body: "\"tachtistoscopic word naming study\"\r\n\r\nThanks for that, I had forgotten
    you told me about this before. \r\n\r\nBut the point is, you claim through this
    study that according to \"users\" you can tachtistoscopically word name better
    in b/w than in grey scale, with a Sans @ 13 ppm. But it's l-l-like saying in a
    retail market, \"I can get closest to your exact change by rounding to the nearest
    dollar, okay?\" \r\n\r\nIn other words: the test must have included\_faulty typography
    as a certainty because for any sans at that size, there at least 12 pixels that
    are much better, (reading at least, I'm not sure about tachtistoscopically word
    naming), between 67% and 87% black, then they are in black, and there are also
    a hand full at 12%-30% that help a lot, that are otherwise the background. These
    numbers, are of course, larger for serif.\r\n\r\nCan you show the grey scale font
    or not?"
  created: '2006-05-11 23:38:55'
date: '2006-05-02 12:12:34'
node_type: forum
title: programming fonts

---
