---
author:
  name: Miguel Sousa
  picture: 110242
body: "Have you guys seen the cool \"Get a Mac\" ads on TV?\r\nIf not, watch them
  here: http://www.apple.com/getamac/ads/"
comments:
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "yeah, let's get another stereotype again...\r\nAdvertising is so stupid."
  created: '2006-05-05 15:44:21'
- author:
    name: terryw
    picture: 109820
  body: "<em>Advertising is so stupid.</em>\r\nbut effective"
  created: '2006-05-05 16:47:53'
- author:
    name: Sebastian Nagel
    picture: 109594
  body: "<cite>but effective</cite>\r\nWhich tells a lot about target groups (in general)."
  created: '2006-05-05 18:08:02'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Just put a shiny titanium lid on it, and\r\nthe peons will fork over all
    their dough.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-05 18:19:47'
- author:
    name: Ken Messenger
    picture: 111387
  body: "<cite>Just put a shiny titanium lid on it, and the peons will fork over all
    their dough.</cite>\r\n\r\nYes, a black plastic cover is far superior. I prefer
    macs for the way they work (although the way they look is a benefit as well)."
  created: '2006-05-05 20:09:48'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "I advocate not worrying about the cover, just\r\nlike I advocate looking
    beyond the cleavage.\r\n\r\n> I prefer macs for the way they work\r\n\r\nYou're
    part of the -commendable- minority.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-05 20:19:06'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: Mac shot themselves in the foot when they changed chips. No one has written
    software for the new chips. Sales in the advertising/graphic design market should
    drop like a stone.
  created: '2006-05-05 21:16:58'
- author:
    name: Miguel Sousa
    picture: 110242
  body: "> Mac shot themselves in the foot\r\n\r\nI thought they were nuts when they
    decided to stop putting diskette drives in their computers and go for USB. Look
    what happened. The Intel chips move may not be as unwise as it looks..."
  created: '2006-05-05 21:50:24'
- author:
    name: jupiterboy
    picture: 109773
  body: "<cite> I advocate looking beyond the cleavage. </cite>\r\n\r\nI'm sure they
    believe you. "
  created: '2006-05-05 21:51:00'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Well, admittedly, it certainly doesn't help when they flaunt it.  :-/\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-05 22:47:58'
- author:
    name: Mark Simonson
    picture: 110448
  body: "<em>Mac shot themselves in the foot when they changed chips. No one has written
    software for the new chips. Sales in the advertising/graphic design market should
    drop like a stone.</em>\r\n\r\nWhat are you talking about? Most of Apple's software
    (including Final Cut Studio) is already native, Adobe and Microsoft have committed
    to supporting it, lot's of other developers have already shipped native apps,
    Quark 7 (in beta - out soon) is already native, etc. Most PowerPC apps will run
    fine on it, albeit not as fast as native. \r\n\r\nThe situation is very similar
    to when Apple moved from 68xxx chips to PowerPC in the mid-nineties. The only
    problem is that Apple did it more quickly than anyone expected. Developers only
    learned about it when Apple made the announcement last summer. At that time, they
    said the new hardware would be shipping within a year. They beat that by six months.
    It would be nice if Adobe hadn't decided to wait until the next major version
    of CS to go native, but I doubt that will be a deal-breaker since Apple's high-end
    desktops still run on the G5 and will probably be the last to make the transition
    to Intel."
  created: '2006-05-05 23:41:48'
- author:
    name: titus n.
    picture: 109952
  body: '[img:sites/default/files/old-images/mac_4250.jpg]'
  created: '2006-05-06 00:23:40'
- author:
    name: Ricardo Cordoba
    picture: 110715
  body: "Shot themselves in the foot!?\r\n\r\nI think they're trying to get as many
    Windows users as possible to cross over to the Mac side. Pretty shrewd, if you
    ask me... even though, in my humble opinion, they've sacrificed having a great
    OS for a not-so-great OS... The native software will appear, sooner or later."
  created: '2006-05-06 03:52:18'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "About the chips> \r\n\r\nAdmittedly, I wish Apple would have stayed on the
    PowerPC platform. However IBM nor Motorola were ratcheting up the clock speed
    fast enough for Apple to compete with the Intel world. I thought when the Cell
    came out us mac users were gonna get that, but shortly afterwards Apple announced
    their split from their chip makers. Heck I even wished for the Power 4 to be used
    in some super duper graphics station but that rumor never came to fruition. And
    as far as the whole \"Apple did it because of the laptops\"- I just don't believe
    that completely. \r\nMotorola had just come out with the MPC8641D it was cool,
    supported PCI Express and Rapid IO. But the problem was not features- those chips
    maxed at 1.8 Ghz and it was still a G4 (which is not necessarily\r\n bad because
    G4's have a slight advantage in the Altivec department). Not good enough for todays
    marketing 'standards'. So my opinion is that Apple did it because they have easy
    access to refreshed chips. Not IBM's once a year miniscule moves.\r\n\r\nPowerPC
    was special but you know what... its just a chip. Intel is moving very quickly
    and is Apple and developers. However I will upgrade long after Adobe has converted
    its product line to Intel.\r\n\r\nAs far as the hardware and the OS> \r\n\r\nThe
    hardware is very expensive... attractive but expensive. So how I rationalize the
    price is the OS. Windows XP is a joke. Its stable and smooth until you get it
    connected to a network. Viruses and spyware galore and mystery slowdowns. ActiveX
    should die!!! My brother bought a Dell at the same time I got my G5... I have
    never called tech-support, he calls them all the time. My mac has caused me to
    restart only once since I've had it... I was toying with modem settings while
    I was dialing and the kernel panicked- big deal and that was over a year ago.
    Sorry, I'd pay double for a computer that does not put me through hassles and
    incompatibilities. I respect Windows users for the hardware price thing... I have
    Windows boxes too but the OS is another story. I have personally lost money with
    windows!\r\n\r\nFrom a typophiles perspective> Mac OS X has the best fonts (that
    you will actually use) included in any OS ever!!! We have Hoefler Text, Neue Helvetica,
    Cochin, Apple Chancery (which happens to be amazing), Zapfino, Optima, Didot,
    Bodoni, Palatino, Big Caslon, and American Typewriter to name just a few of the
    coolest. And what does windows have (cough)... Franklin Gothic Medium. \r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-06 05:25:22'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "We can argue -as too many people have wasted too much time doing since day
    one- about the pros and cons (don't get me started about Apple's true stance on
    typography) and we can present our deterministic, puny personal experiences and
    what happened to our cousin's mom, but the sad fact remains, that compared to
    what could have been, that in light of what those of us who started in the 70s
    have seen and have had to go through, truly, both platforms suck cold, hard crap.
    We're being swindled, and then convinced to actually enjoy it.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-06 07:15:58'
- author:
    name: George Horton
  body: Bring back lisp machines.
  created: '2006-05-06 08:13:26'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Hrant> I almost agree with everything you said. I have been an Apple user
    since 1992 and there have been more scandals and set backs at Apple than anywhere
    in the computer industry. And Apple has dragged its user-base around and around
    with transitions and phony promises. Hello... the never-ending Type 11 errors
    right in the middle of a project in Pagemaker.\r\n\r\nBut as far Apple's true
    stance on typography... perhaps you are alluding to Apple GX technology that they
    stubbornly never listened to Microsoft that led to the zillion year transition
    to OpenType that is still having support issues with Mac OSX and Windows? What
    is Apple's true stance?\r\n\r\nBut as much as Apple has fooled around, the operating
    system is excellent NOW and for me exceeds my expectations in many ways. Windows
    just doesn't do it for me.\r\n\r\nMy personal 'puny' loss-generating experience
    with Windows is what I'll remember the next time I see a Vista add.\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-06 08:24:45'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Maybe it seems melodramatic and contrived, and maybe it's even immature,
    but in the early days there was <cite>something</cite> about having and using
    a personal computer, something exhilarating concerning the idea itself, something
    that caused droves of people to be recklessly enthusiatic, and in a way selfless.
    It wasn't about clockspeeds or color depths. That spirit is completely and utterly
    dead now. Maybe there's something wrong with me, but it makes me cry.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-06 09:33:14'
- author:
    name: dan_reynolds
    picture: 110440
  body: "Dude, get a grip ;-)\r\n\r\nWhat did you use computers for in the late 1970s,
    or even the late 1980s? I suspect that you were designing a few of your earliest
    fonts (the bitmap Armenian and Arabic ones, right?) and also programming.\r\n\r\nI
    don't know the details of your day job, but you are a programmer now, aren't you?
    Sure, computers have become more standardized in the last 30 years. But what do
    you actually do on your computer? I suspect you work, write, chat with us online,
    and design and test typefaces. I don't see the paradigm shift."
  created: '2006-05-06 10:10:21'
- author:
    name: Thomas Phinney
    picture: 128358
  body: "Uh-oh. I agree with Hrant about something (\"in the early days...\"). I believe
    that's one of the signs of the coming apocalypse.\r\n\r\nI'm not into a general
    platform wars discussion, but I think Apple made a pretty smart move by going
    to Intel chips. The transition is a little rough, but they have again done a masterful
    job of it (as they did with the 68000-to-PowerPC transition).\r\n\r\nThat being
    said, it's not a great time to buy a MacTel machine, if you're a graphics professional.
    I think this transition period for the next year or so will be financially hard
    for Apple. We'll just have to see.\r\n\r\nRegards,\r\n\r\nT"
  created: '2006-05-07 01:23:14'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "When will computers exit this primeval stage of industrial design and actually
    function as they should?\r\n\r\nCommand line was much more reliable than any GUI,
    like it or not.\r\n\r\nIf your car broke down every week you would be very angry\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-07 01:38:04'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "I don't get it.  My Mac does not break down. System X is WAY more stable
    than the old Mac OSs were. Apple is not coming out with a desktop aimed at the
    design publishing crowd instanntly anyway.  This will give developers time to
    make software updates. Sure, there will be a slow period for Apple till then but
    it was a very good move on their part.\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-07 01:53:46'
- author:
    name: tier
  body: I heard technology is doubling every ten years. I think it will be about that
    before computers are twice as good as they are today. But as with things like
    washing machines, large companies don't make the best products they are capable
    of because then they wouldn't need to be replaced so often so would make fewer
    sales. This is a very cynical out look but contains faint truths.
  created: '2006-05-07 01:58:42'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: And lets not forget Steve Jobs's reality distortion field.
  created: '2006-05-07 04:26:29'
- author:
    name: dust
  body: "For me the real high point of the macs is OS X and the fact that is (or was)almost
    virus free.\r\nthe thing is that now that OS X is going to be written for intel
    chips who is going to spend the hard cash on a mac if you can get it to run on
    a pc that costed you half of the price to put it together??\r\nDefinetely not
    me...\r\nAnother side effect is that we are gonna start seeing viruses for macs
    pretty soon...  don't you think? \r\nI don't know if it was a smart move or a
    suicidal one, we'll see... \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-07 09:26:09'
- author:
    name: Dan Weaver
  body: My point is I use Photoshop, Illustrator, InDesign and Corel Painter. I am
    not willing to wait until the second quarter of 2007 for my applications from
    Adobe to be written for the Intel Chip. I don't even know what Corel's plans are.
  created: '2006-05-07 14:52:37'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "quote - I am not willing to wait until the second quarter of 2007 for my
    applications from Adobe to be written for the Intel Chip\r\n\r\nAll fine and good
    but Adobe's development cycle is typically 18-24 months. So this isn't that different\u2026\r\n\r\nComputers
    are in the infant stage of industrial design\u2026\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-07 18:49:02'
- author:
    name: Joe Pemberton
    picture: 110420
  body: "You've all missed the great irony... Apple's machines are now the fastest
    Windows boxes shipping. Benchmarks show Windows XP run faster on Apple hardware
    than they do on traditional PC makers' boxes. So much for the \"platform wars\".
    The winner is either Apple with Windows or Apple with OS X... take your pick.\r\n\r\nCan't
    wait for Adobe to ship InDesign for Mac-Intel... just pick up the Windows version
    and run it on your Mac. What a concept.\r\n\r\nFor trivial kicks, Apple also recently
    announced a move to Samsung chips for iPods. (Go ahead and google \"Newton 2\"
    or iPhone, I dare you). Suddenly the idea of Intel chips would mean an easier
    port to something akin to Windows Pocket PC, where desktop apps are that much
    more portable.\r\n\r\nAs for Intel-Macs, I'm looking forward to buying games that
    nobody bothered to port to Mac. Gaming on the Mac has been the proverbial bane
    of the platform. (Doh, I shouldn't admit to liking fonts AND games, since everybody
    would know I'm a nerd, bona fide.)\r\n\r\nPS - Titus, that comic is tapped into
    a stereotype from like 1996 (if it weren't for the circa 1999 ID)."
  children:
  - author:
      name: thierry blancpain
      picture: 110642
    body: "joe pemberton is probably right. i'm looking into getting a macbook pro
      this autumn (only using winXP, im not interested in an OS-switch), just because
      with my students discount of 19%, they're offering the cheapest laptops for
      what i want (a strong workhorse machine, i'll put 2GB ram in it). even dell
      costs more (and i think high of dell laptops, only know one unhappy customer
      out of 20 or 30 or so).\r\n\r\ni know, there's really no sense in discussing
      such stuff (again.. and again.. and again..), but i'll do it anyway. i work
      every day with osx and use winXP at home. osx is ok, but it has some things
      in it that are just NOT user-friendly and dont work as good as they do in xp.\r\n\r\nboth
      OS have their pro and cons, and with a firewall (router) and a good and up-to-date
      AV-program, xp is as safe as osx.\r\n\r\n\r\n(and eh.. to stay ontopic, i dont
      really like the ads. its just the usual marketing-BS you hear from any mac-fanboy,
      most of it not true or unimportant if you're not a stupid user)"
    created: '2006-05-08 19:38:00'
  - author:
      name: AndrewSipe
      picture: 109430
    body: "I'm right there with you... I learned on an Apple G4, graduated, got a
      job that was PC based only (i.e. Dell everywhere)... relearned all the shortcuts,
      purchased an Acer Laptop, borrowed all the office's software and have been missing
      that Apple experience ever since. \r\n\r\nI agree there are things you can do
      on a PC that you can't quite do (as well) on an Apple, but now, it's the best
      of both worlds. I can get an Intel-Mac boot up Windows XP, load all my \"borrowed\"
      software, and still have that Apple experience... all on one machine. \r\n\r\nI'm
      in no hurry,I'll wait for the next generation of Intel-Macs so I know the bugs
      are worked out and off I go, back in the Apple Experience. I don't understand
      this rush to get the \"newest\" if all you're going to do is bitch. Go to the
      Deals section at Apple and get one of the leftover PowerPCs, hold out till all
      the software is updated to match the hardware then purchase a new Apple. Hell
      Adobe isn't releasing any new versions of their design suite till this time
      next year, what's the rush? "
    created: '2006-05-09 16:29:42'
  created: '2006-05-08 10:31:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Perpetually stuck on the kiddie stuff.\r\nWhich is what the money-men want.\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-08 11:17:41'
- author:
    name: Paul Cutler
    picture: 110643
  body: "Computers don't have enough personality to love\u2026\r\n\r\nJust pick a
    tool and get on with it.\r\n\r\npeace"
  created: '2006-05-08 15:51:19'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<cite> Perpetually stuck on the kiddie stuff.\r\nWhich is what the money-men
    want.</cite> \r\n\r\n<strong>So, entertainment= opium for the people (sorry \u2013
    <cite> peons</cite>)?</strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192"
  created: '2006-05-08 15:58:15'
- author:
    name: hrant
    picture: 110403
  body: "Give them pizza, and give them football, and they will not revolt.\r\n(Oh,
    plus let them vote, so they think it's their fault.)\r\n\r\nhhp\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-08 16:50:13'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Don't dress like a student \r\nDress like an alien\r\nmeow\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/alienbootman_4813.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-08 16:57:54'
- author:
    name: timd
    picture: 110125
  body: "George Foreman Lean Mean Cat Reducing Grilling Machine:)\r\nTim"
  created: '2006-05-08 17:09:28'
- author:
    name: Isaac
    picture: 110579
  body: Viva letterpress!
  created: '2006-05-08 21:07:51'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "kesh... what are those thing that are not user friendly in OSX ???\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-08 21:26:34'
- author:
    name: thierry blancpain
    picture: 110642
  body: "for example: you cannot use your keyboard to select an answer in dialog boxes
    (\"save / save as / no / cancel\" or such), you just have a few shortcuts that
    stay the same all the time (apple+. for cancel). in winxp, you can just press
    arrow-left / arrow-right and enter to select an answer.\r\n\r\nor? in finder,
    you dont have a permanent adress-line (like the field you can enter the url in
    in a webbrowser). in winXP, you have it, so you can easily copy adresses on your
    local computer (folders). sure, you have drag&drop with the folder-name in the
    top-bar of finder, but it just doesnt work as easy as it does in winXP.\r\n\r\nor?
    i cant directly select an instance of a program (like one window of finder) like
    in windows, you have to go to finder and then press apple+\\ (i think thats what
    on the american keyboard at that place) to switch instances.\r\n\r\njust three
    points. as said, discussions about this wont lead to any result or insight on
    any side, lets just forget about it."
  children:
  - author:
      name: artesiandesign
      picture: 109520
    body: "I might be misunderstanding your points, but here are a few suggestions...\r\n\r\n<em>1.
      \"for example: you cannot use your keyboard to select an answer in dialog boxes
      (\u201Csave / save as / no / cancel\u201D or such)\"</em>\r\n\r\nTrue for most,
      but some dialogs have hidden key combos - such as Option-D for \"Don't Save\".
      \ \"OK\" or \"Save\" are usually defaulted so you can just hit \"Return\"\r\n\r\n<em>2.
      in finder, you dont have a permanent adress-line</em>\r\n\r\nWhen would you
      need to copy the file location instead of just drag-and-drop?\r\n\r\n<em>3.
      i cant directly select an instance of a program</em>\r\n\r\nDo you mean switch
      applications or switch windows within an application?\r\nYou can Comman-TAB
      to switch between applications.  Command-TILDE (CMD + ~) to switch between windows
      within an application.  In Photoshop it's Control-TAB\r\n\r\nI'm probably just
      misunderstanding what you can't do in OSX that XP can do.  Please enlighten
      me.\r\n\r\nI, too, agree that some shortcut-type things are better in XP, but
      to me XP's interface is just too clunky.\r\n\r\nDaniel"
    created: '2006-05-10 00:27:07'
  created: '2006-05-08 21:36:14'
- author:
    name: bieler
  body: "Viva letterpress!\r\n\r\n\r\nNow that is funny! Actually though most studio-letterpress
    printers today utilize the computer as per the photopolymer plate process and
    most of the folks engaged in this regard do use Macs.\r\n\r\nSomeone asked what
    computers existed in the 1970s? Main frames mostly, but mini computers were introduced
    in the mid-1970s. I was employed as an information retrieval specialist searching
    online information databases. No GUI. And the first one I ever saw, on a Mac Plus,
    well, that sort of sold me on on Apple, I hated code (I refuse to use Terminal).
    The main difference between Apple and Microsoft is that Apple has an R&D department.\r\n\r\nGerald"
  created: '2006-05-09 07:04:33'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "Beiler> I could not agree more. If Apple does it today, Microsoft will copy
    it tommorow. \r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-09 08:00:53'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: Chalkboard....
  created: '2006-05-09 09:32:42'
- author:
    name: fredo
    picture: 110623
  body: "<strong>More cats on computers! This graphic piece of fluff prefers Mac.\r\n\r\nI
    am a kitten... <cite>miaow</cite></strong>\r\n\r\n\u0192\r\n\r\n\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/DSCN0436_typo_4592.jpg]"
  created: '2006-05-09 09:50:22'
- author:
    name: SuperUltraFabulous
    picture: 111522
  body: "fredo> Cute cat! My cat loves to interfere- I mean help when I'm working
    too.\r\n\r\n\r\nMikey"
  created: '2006-05-09 10:16:13'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "I sold my Devon Rex for a Mac.. what was I thinking..\r\n[img:sites/default/files/old-images/gia_04_4182.gif]"
  created: '2006-05-09 11:46:16'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Vincent,\r\nWho is that women?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-09 15:11:14'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "this is Gia Milinovich, that is rocky and that is my little toy Mac G4 bookie...\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sueridermanagement.co.uk/presenters/Gia/gia.htm"
  created: '2006-05-09 15:45:20'
- author:
    name: Chris Keegan
    picture: 110432
  body: Use whatever tools work best for you.
  created: '2006-05-09 16:15:29'
- author:
    name: dezcom
    picture: 109959
  body: "Thanks Vincent.  I didn't realize she was a TV personality.  Are her shows
    only seen in the UK?\r\n\r\nChrisL"
  created: '2006-05-09 18:46:39'
- author:
    name: vinceconnare
    picture: 110591
  body: "Gia makes this website for Danny Boyle's next movie.\r\n\r\nhttp://www.sunshinedna.com/\r\n\r\nShe
    has a blog..\r\n\r\nhttp://www.giagia.co.uk\r\n\r\nand She is in London and yes
    UK but might write a book for other countries soon. And we might have a secret
    project with me in the future, I'll be shooting it and she is managing it. \r\n\r\n"
  created: '2006-05-09 19:24:36'
date: '2006-05-05 14:45:24'
node_type: forum
title: Hi I'm a Mac, hi I'm... restarting

---
